{"id": "42042198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42042198", "title": "ADS-AC", "text": "ADS-AC\n\nADS-AC is an experimental open source program which implements Absolutely Dynamic System, a proposed mechanism for AC.\n\nADS-AC uses a system of \"points\" or \"nodes\" connected by \"links\" to create a structure of \"knots\". The nodes have no properties other than their links to other nodes in order to maintain their absolute dynamicity.\n\n"}
{"id": "13641114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13641114", "title": "Agathodaemon (alchemist)", "text": "Agathodaemon (alchemist)\n\nAgathodaemon (, \"Agathodaímōn\"; ) was an alchemist in late Roman Egypt, known only from fragments quoted in medieval alchemical treatises, chiefly the \"Anepigraphos\", which refer to works of his believed to be from the 3rd century. He is primarily remembered for his various descriptions of elements and minerals, most particularly his descriptions of a method of producing silver, and of a substance he had created, which he called a 'fiery poison', and which, judging by his account, was arsenic trioxide, a highly toxic amphoteric oxide.\n\nHe described the 'fiery poison' as being formed when a certain mineral (most probably realgar or orpiment) was fused with natron (naturally occurring sodium carbonate), and that dissolved in water to give a clear solution. He also wrote of how, when he placed a fragment of copper into the solution, the copper turned a deep green hue, lending further validity to the suggestion that orpiment or realgar was used, as they are both arsenic ores, and this would be the hue achieved from the copper after it had been placed in the arsenic trioxide had the substance formed been copper arsenite.\n\nAgathodaemon's discoveries exist as part of the foundations for later use of poison, as arsenic and related substances were used regularly in later centuries as means of poisoning and murder. Since the only records of his existence are references in later works, he may be apocryphal, but since the practice of alchemy itself began to decline around the time he is believed to have lived, and it may be that much of his writing was lost. Some of the writings of other alchemists on alchemy of the time were preserved and saved by a sect of dissident Christians, who called themselves Nestorians and who were able to escape to Persia around 400. This information that was gathered by the Nestorians eventually passed on to the Arabs, and this in part contributed to the flourishing of alchemy in that region and in their hands; the modern English word \"alchemy\" comes from the Arabic language, and many of the foundations for alchemy in Western nations were laid by the Arabs.\n\n"}
{"id": "93829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93829", "title": "Agricultural biotechnology", "text": "Agricultural biotechnology\n\nAgricultural biotechnology, also known as agritech, is an area of agricultural science involving the use of scientific tools and techniques, including genetic engineering, molecular markers, molecular diagnostics, vaccines, and tissue culture, to modify living organisms: plants, animals, and microorganisms.\nCrop biotechnology is one aspect of agricultural biotechnology which has been greatly developed upon in recent times. Desired trait are exported from a particular species of Crop to an entirely different species. These transgene crops possess desirable characteristics in terms of flavor, color of flowers, growth rate, size of harvested products and resistance to diseases and pests.\n\nFarmers have manipulated plants and animals through selective breeding for tens of thousands of years in order to create desired traits. In the 20th century, a surge in technology resulted in an increase in agricultural biotechnology through the selection of traits like increased yield, pest resistance, drought resistance, and herbicide resistance. The first food product produced through biotechnology was sold in 1990, and by 2003, 7 million farmers were utilizing biotech crops. More than 85% of these farmers were located in developing countries.\n\nTraditional crossbreeding has been used for centuries to improve crop quality and quantity. Crossbreeding mates two sexually compatible species to create a new variety with the desired traits of the parents. For example, the honeycrisp apple exhibits a specific texture and flavor due to the crossbreeding of its parents. In traditional practices, pollen from one plant is placed on the female part of another, which leads to a hybrid that contains genetic information from both parent plants. Plant breeders select the plants with the traits they're looking to pass on and continue to breed those plants. Note that crossbreeding can only be utilized within the same or closely related species.\n\nMutations can occur randomly in the DNA of any organism. In order to create variety within crops, scientists can randomly induce mutations within plants. Mutagenesis uses radioactivity to induce random mutations in the hopes of stumbling upon the desired trait. Scientists can use mutating chemicals such as ethyl methanesulfonate, or radioactivity to create random mutations within the DNA. Atomic gardens are used to mutate crops. A radioactive core is located in the center of a circular garden and raised out of the ground to radiate the surrounding crops, generating mutations within a certain radius. Mutagenesis through radiation was the process used to produce ruby red grapefruits.\n\nPolyploidy can be induced to modify the number of chromosomes in a crop in order to influence its fertility or size. Usually, organisms have two sets of chromosomes, otherwise known as a diploidy. However, either naturally or through the use of chemicals, that number of chromosomes can change, resulting in fertility changes or size modification within the crop. Seedless watermelons are created in this manner; a 4-set chromosome watermelon is crossed with a 2-set chromosome watermelon to create a sterile (seedless) watermelon with three sets of chromosomes.\n\nProtoplast fusion is the joining of cells or cell components to transfer traits between species. For example, the trait of male sterility is transferred from radishes to red cabbages by protoplast fusion. This male sterility helps plant breeders make hybrid crops.\n\nRNA interference (RNAIi) is the process in which a cell's RNA to protein mechanism is turned down or off in order to suppress genes. This method of genetic modification works by interfering with messenger RNA to stop the synthesis of proteins, effectively silencing a gene.\n\nTransgenics involves the insertion of one piece of DNA into another organism's DNA in order to introduce a new gene(s) into the original organism. This addition of genes into an organism's genetic material creates a new variety with desired traits. The DNA must be prepared and packaged in a test tube and then inserted into the new organism. New genetic information can be inserted with biolistics. An example of transgenics is the rainbow papaya, which is modified with a gene that gives it resistance to the papaya ringspot virus.\n\nGenome editing is the use of an enzyme system to modify the DNA directly within the cell. Genome editing was used to develop herbicide resistant canola to help farmers control weeds.\n\nAgricultural biotechnology has been used to improve the nutritional content of a variety of crops in an effort to meet the needs of an increasing population. Genetic engineering can produce crops with a higher concentration of vitamins. For example, golden rice contains three genes that allow plants to produce compounds that are converted to vitamin A in the human body. This nutritionally improved rice is designed to combat the world's leading cause of blindness—vitamin A deficiency. Similarly, the Banana 21 project has worked to improve the nutrition in bananas to combat micronutrient deficiencies in Uganda. By genetically modifying bananas to contain vitamin A and iron, Banana 21 has helped foster a solution to micronutrient deficiencies through the vessel of a staple food and major starch source in Africa. Additionally, crops can be engineered to reduce toxicity or to produce varieties with removed allergens.\n\nOne highly sought after trait is insect resistance. This trait increases a crop's resistance to bugs and allows for a higher yield. These genetically engineered crops can now produce their own Bt (\"Bacillus thuringiensis\"), which contains toxin-producing proteins that are non-harmful to humans. Bt corn and cotton are now commonplace, and cowpeas, sunflower, soybeans, tomatoes, tobacco, walnut, sugar cane, and rice are all being studied in relation to Bt.\n\nWeeds have proven to be an issue for farmers for thousands of years; they compete for soil nutrients, water, and sunlight and prove deadly to crops. Biotechnology has offered a solution in the form of herbicide tolerance. Chemical herbicides are sprayed directly on plants in order to kill weeds and therefore competition, and herbicide resistant crops have to the opportunity to flourish.\n\nOften, crops are afflicted by disease spread through insects (like aphids). Spreading disease among crop plants is incredibly difficult to control and was previously only managed by completely removing the affected crop. The field of agricultural biotechnology offers a solution through genetically engineering virus resistance. Developing GE disease-resistant crops now include cassava, maize, and sweet potato.\n\nAgricultural biotechnology can also provide a solution for plants in extreme temperature conditions. In order to maximize yield and prevent crop death, genes can be engineered that help to regulate cold and heat tolerance. For example, papaya trees have been genetically modified in order to be more tolerant of hot and cold conditions. Other traits include water use efficiency, nitrogen use efficiency and salt tolerance.\n\nQuality traits include increased nutritional or dietary value, improved food processing and storage, or the elimination of toxins and allergens in crop plants.\n\nCurrently, only a small number of genetically modified crops are available for purchase and consumption in the United States. The USDA has approved soybeans, corn, canola, sugar beets, papaya, squash, alfalfa, cotton, apples, and potatoes. GMO apples (arctic apples) are non-browning apples and eliminate the need for anti-browning treatments, reduce food waste, and bring out flavor. The production of Bt cotton has skyrocketed in India, with 10 million hectares planted for the first time in 2011, resulting in a 50% insecticide application reduction. In 2014, Indian and Chinese farmers planted more than 15 million hectares of Bt cotton.\n\nAgricultural biotechnology regulation in the US falls under three main government agencies: The Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The USDA must approve the release of any new GMOs, EPA controls the regulation of insecticide, and the FDA evaluates the safety of a particular crop sent to market. On average, it takes nearly 13 years and $130 million of research and development for a genetically modified organism to come to market. The regulation process takes up to 8 years in the United States. The safety of GMOs has become a topic of debate worldwide, but scientific articles are being conducted to test the safety of consuming GMOs in addition to the FDA's work. In one such article, it was concluded that Bt rice did not adversely affect digestion and did not induce horizontal gene transfer.\n\n"}
{"id": "36509802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36509802", "title": "Air France Flight 406", "text": "Air France Flight 406\n\nAir France Flight 406 was a Lockheed L-1649 Starliner that crashed in Algeria on May 10, 1961, after a bomb exploded on board. All 78 passengers and crew on board were killed.\n\nAir France Flight 406 was an international scheduled passenger flight originating in Brazzaville, Congo with a final destination of Paris, France, with intermediate stops in Fort Lamy, Chad, and Marseille, France. The flight was flown by Lockheed L-1649 Starliner, F-BHBM \"De Grasse\".\n\nAfter taking off from Fort Lamy and while cruising at an altitude of approximately 20,000 feet, the Starliner broke up after its empennage failed. The aircraft crashed to Earth approximately 35 miles from Edjele oilfield and near the Libya border. All people on board Flight 406 were killed in the crash.\n\n18 children were killed in the crash of Flight 406. Among them were the three young children, who, along with their mother Polly Lukens, the wife of the United States Charge d'Affaires in the Central African Republic, were on Flight 406 headed for London. Also among the dead were the Count and Countess de Morte Mart plus two Central African Republic Ministers. Rumors began to surface after Flight 406's crash that it had been an assassination by enemies of the Central African Republic.\n\nAir France Flight 406 was the worst aviation disaster involving a Lockheed Starliner.\n\nThe most probable cause of Air France Flight 406 crashing was sabotage with a nitrocellulose explosive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42723881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42723881", "title": "Akali Naina Singh", "text": "Akali Naina Singh\n\nAkali Naina Singh was a Nihang warrior and fifth Jathedar of Budha Dal. He was born around 1736, into a Sidhu family, in Khudi Kurd, in Barnala district. He learned Gurbani and martial skills from Baba Deep Singh. He joined Budha Dal at the age of 20, along with his nephew Nihang Kharag Singh. He was guardian of Akali Phula Singh (1761-1823) and trained him with scriptures, warfare and martial arts. He is credited for introducing tall pyramidal turban, which is common among the Nihangs. He was against treaty of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and British and dislike living style of Ranjit Singh which appears to him anti-Sikh.\n"}
{"id": "9435896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9435896", "title": "Alien Intelligence (Palladium Books)", "text": "Alien Intelligence (Palladium Books)\n\nIn the various game settings of Palladium Books, Alien Intelligences are fictional, vastly powerful beings of unknown origin that are stated to be a combination of equal parts spirit, magical energy, and physical flesh. They are said to exist on different planes of existence simultaneously, and in the Palladium hierarchy of powers, most Alien Intelligences, apart from the Vampire Intelligences, are more powerful than the mightiest Gods in Palladium. In fact, some of the most powerful Gods of the Palladium Megaverse were themselves spawned by the Alien Intelligences.\n\nAlien Intelligences are perceived by the vast majority of sentient beings everywhere in the Megaverse as creatures of pure evil intent, and with good reason. While many (perhaps most) Alien Intelligences do indeed gain a great deal of amusement from the suffering of other beings, for the vast majority of Intelligences, the simple fact of the matter is that they consider themselves as far above most sentient beings as those sentient beings consider themselves above pets and livestock, and treat those beings as such. Even Gods, Angels, Demons, and lesser Alien Intelligences are potentially susceptible to being treated as nothing more than pawns, slaves, and in some cases, food.\n\nMost Alien Intelligences follow the standard template: a fleshy mound that may or may not take any recognizable shape, a single eye in the middle of the mass of flesh (although there can be hundreds or even thousands of these; most Intelligences don't actually need these eyes to see), and in many cases, a series of tentacles protruding from the Main Body. \"Generic\" Alien Intelligences have the ability to possess the bodies of \"willing\" hosts (in most cases any essence fragment that is taken into a host body will forever destroy or consume the original personality and/or soul of anyone tricked into accepting such a deal), the raising, controlling, and/or turning of large numbers of dead, most of the standard abilities of Palladium Gods, and the ability to send out a limited number of essence fragments to better interact with the physical world around them-although these fragments must merge with physical matter in order to be of any use.\n\nIn the Palladium Megaverse, Vampire Intelligences are seemingly the most numerous of their kind, and potentially the most dangerous, especially with the fall of the Old Ones that kept them in check. They are actually minor Old Ones but were deemed too \"weak\" in comparison to the other Old Ones and were not included in the super-spell that put the Old Ones and many of the greater Intelligences to sleep. Due to the virulent nature of their existence and the universal hatred throughout the Megaverse of vampiric infestation, Vampire Intelligences are hated by almost every sentient being in the Megaverse, from the least to the most powerful, and from the most stalwart Champions of Light to the most evil Devils and Demons. Very, very rarely does any other creature ever willingly work with or for them.\n\nVampire Intelligences are notable amongst Alien Intelligences in that they can produce an unlimited number of essences (which fuses with a mortal, living creature to form a Vampire), and that the essence fragments can, if so desired, create a corporeal servant-a last line of defense within the Vampire Intelligence's lair-without the need to possess a living victim (most essence fragments are intangible in form and must bond to a solid body in order to interact with the physical world in any way). Vampire Intelligences are, however, much weaker than their brethren in terms of both mystic might and damage capacity.\n\nMost if not all Greater Elementals summoned by Warlocks, Shifters, and Elemental Fusionists (a name that some Warlocks prefer to be called by), are actually fragments of Elemental Intelligences themselves.\n\nElemental Intelligences are noteworthy amongst Intelligences, and most sentient life in general, in that they have absolutely no comprehension of morality, one way or the other. Elemental Intelligences cannot comprehend most human emotions-apart from anger-and never ever engage in any activity, good or evil, for pleasure. An Elemental Intelligence, asked or commanded by another being to retrieve an object from point B, will start from point A and simply tear through a village of women and children without the slightest regret: it cannot comprehend why it is \"wrong\" to kill the innocent, and it has no comprehension of life or death, good or evil.\n\nTo date, no Elemental Intelligence has been given stats in Palladium Canon, but their essence fragments are moderately powered by Alien Intelligence standards. This might indicate that the powers of Elemental Intelligences rival or exceed those of their brethren.\n\nA \"sub-species\" of Alien Intelligences whose essence fragments can only bond with the now-soulless bodies of the recently deceased. Despite that limitation, there is no apparent limit to the number of bodies that they can reanimate in this manner, the bodies themselves are restored to the appearance of full health and vigor, and furthermore any and all of those bodies are for all intents and purposes that of the Intelligence itself; everything that they see or hear the Main Body of the Intelligence sees and hears also.\n\nCurrently in Rifts Earth, on the land once known as British Isles, a Zllyphan named Zazshan has successfully re-created the legend of the Knights of the Round Table; his essence fragments are simultaneously masquerading as the Lady Guinevere, the Sorcerer Merlin, a cadre of the inner circle of Knights, and even as the Lady of the Lake-all of whom seemingly act on their own separate \"agendas\". Zllyphan are relatively low-powered for Alien Intelligences (although still considerably more powerful than Vampire Intelligences).\n\nThe most successful and well-organized of the Alien Intelligences, this sub-species of Alien Intelligences follow the \"generic\" template for Intelligences in every way, including massive damage capacity (surpassing that of all but the most powerful of Gods), the ability to send out a limited number of essence fragments, create Witches (which they typically and almost exclusively do in the form of the Splugorth High Lords), and host of other capabilities. As a species, their might is exceeded only by that of unique Intelligences such as Apsu, Nxla, and the Lord of the Deep. The Splugorth are confined principally to the Rifts Game Setting, and their past relationship of these creatures to the dreaded Old Ones, if any, is unknown.\n\nThere are one-of-a-kind Intelligences in the Palladium Megaverse that dwarf the power of the Gods and even most other Intelligences. Fortunately for the Megaverse, these beings are few and far between, and they are generally hated and plotted against even by other powerful Intelligences, if for no other reason than that these Greater Intelligences would likely enslave or destroy the lesser ones.\n\nThese beings include but are not limited to: Cronus, Nxla, the Lord of the Deep, Apsu, Tikilik, the Rainbow Serpent, the Tarnow Crystal Intelligence (implied to have been imprisoned in the crystal as a punishment by the Old Ones themselves), Devy'Orhal, the Conqueror, Zurvan, and the Dweller Beneath.\n\nThe most powerful of all Alien Intelligences, the Old Ones were the creators of the \"science\" of magic, the inventors of Rune Wizardry, and possess the same standard abilities of most Intelligences, only on a far greater level (they each have millions of points of Mega Damage Capacity, for example).\n\nIt took the combined martial and mystic might of thousands of races and billions of sentient beings throughout the Megaverse to defeat them...and the effort might have failed even then had not one of the Old Ones' number been present to cast the super-spell that put them to sleep. They could not be destroyed, for fear that the resulting magical backlash would destroy all creation.\n\nAlien Intelligences can, for the most part, enjoy many of the powers and abilities of Gods, including but not limited to Deific Perception (the ability to tell what manner of creature another being is just by looking at it, no matter what disguise it currently wears), effortless inter-Dimensional teleportation, the summoning of attendant minions from anywhere in the Megaverse to do its bidding, and a wide range of other Prototypical Deific powers. Unlike Gods, however, Alien Intelligences don't need the worship of sentient beings in order to continue to exist.\n\nMost Intelligences can grant powers to favored minions through Witchery pacts as Gods can: in return for varying degrees of servitude, Intelligences can grant these Witches the ability to cast magic, can vastly increase the physical strength and ability of these minions to withstand physical damage, and in a few select cases the Intelligences can grant a longer life span or even immortality to these loyal servants.\n\nOne of the Intelligences' most significant abilities, however, is their capability to splinter the essence of their being into multiple Essence Fragments; these fragments are not just a piece of the Intelligence that spawned it, they actually are the Intelligence itself; everything that these fragments ever see or do, the Intelligence sees and does. The amount of essence fragments that a given Intelligence can dispatch at one time are limited by the \"species\" of Intelligence, although some special types of Intelligences such as the Vampire Intelligences, the Zllyphan Intelligences, and unique Intelligences like Nxla can create a potentially unlimited number of these.\n\nFor all their vast range of powers, Alien Intelligences have weaknesses all their own.\n\nPhysically, they cannot alter their form to create a seemingly more fair appearance to mortals, as Gods can do: they have to possess the bodies of other sentient beings to walk among them, and some Intelligences are incapable of even that. They also cannot, for the most part, see through the eyes of their worshippers as Gods can, nor do they possess the unique ability of Palladium Gods to create viable offspring with other lifeforms (in fact, Alien Intelligences cannot reproduce sexually with other species at all).\n\nAlien Intelligences seem to reproduce very slowly, if \"reproduction\" is the proper term to use at all; some Intelligences in canon, such as the ruler of Rifts Atlantis known as Splynncryth, are given an age which implies a date of origin or birth, but the means by which the Intelligences replenish their numbers remains an unknown at present. In any event, it appears to be a slow process: in Palladium Books canon, less than a hundred or so Alien Intelligences are cited throughout the entire Megaverse, and the fear and hatred of these beings makes them prime targets for revenge, treachery, and even assassination-often at the hands of other, rival Intelligences.\n\nArguably, their greatest weakness, however, is not physical but mental. In holding \"lesser\" creatures in such low regard, Alien Intelligences frequently underestimate the ingenuity of the sentient pets, slaves, and livestock below them, and have on more than one occasion been defeated and even destroyed at the hands of an unanticipated insurrection against their rule. Even the Old Ones themselves, far and away the mightiest beings ever to exist in the Palladium Megaverse, were lulled into a false sense of security, and were eventually defeated by a Megaversal uprising that they never expected. Furthermore, many of those participating in the rebellion were their trusted minions.\n\nPalladium Fantasy:\n\nRifts:\n"}
{"id": "7842233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7842233", "title": "Aminoallyl nucleotide", "text": "Aminoallyl nucleotide\n\nAminoallyl nucleotide is a nucleotide with a modified base containing an allylamine. They are used in post-labeling of nucleic acids by fluorescence detection in microarray. They are reactive with N-Hydroxysuccinimide ester group which helps attach a fluorescent dye to the primary amino group on the nucleotide. These nucleotides are known as 5-(3-aminoallyl)-nucleotides since the aminoallyl group is usually attached to carbon 5 of the pyrimidine ring of uracil or cytosine. The primary amine group in the aminoallyl moiety is aliphatic and thus more reactive compared to the amine groups that are directly attached to the rings (aromatic) of the bases. Common names of aminoallyl nucleosides are initially abbreviated with aa- or AA- to indicate aminoallyl. The 5-carbon sugar is indicated with or without the lowercase \"d\" indicating deoxyribose if included or ribose if not. Finally the nitrogenous base and number of phosphates are indicated (i.e. aa-UTP = aminoallyl uridine triphosphate).\n\nThe goal of combining fluorescence and nucleic acids has been to provide a non-isotopic tag that is detectable to study DNA or RNA. This type of labeling allows scientists to study DNA or RNA in their structure, function, or formation with other nucleic acids. The first base modification for fluorescent labeling occurred in 1971 with a 4-thiouridine and 4-thiouracil. This research along with others, which included various types of direct and non-direct labeling via: analogs, addition via enzymes, or other methods made labeling of nucleotides much safer for scientist to study DNA.\n\nAs instrumentation and technologies become more advanced in the field of DNA microarray, better reagents and techniques will be needed to further scientific studies. Fluorescent labeling with Cy3 was shown to be more insufficient and skew results; the method of aminoallyl nucleotide incorporation was opted instead. Using aminoallyl nucleotides as indirect fluorescent labeling seemed to nullify the sensitivity issues seen in cyanine-labeling.\n\nAminoallyl nucleosides can be synthesized via Heck coupling as shown in the image below.\n\nIn the image above, on the left is a modified nucleoside with an iodine (the iodine is added via electrophilic halogenation) in the fifth carbon in the pyrimidine ring. Its formation can be associated with a reaction with an allylamine and various reagents via heck coupling are able to remove the halogen group from the base and add the allylamine to become the aminoallyl nucleoside shown on the right. The product on the right is then used to in molecular biology in RNA synthesis.\n\nOther reactions include using a single pot synthesis with other halogens.\n\nThe primary amine on the aminoallyl nucleotide reacts with amino-reactive dyes such as a cyanine and patented dyes which contain a reactive leaving group, such as a succinimidyl ester (NHS).The amine groups directly attached to the ring of the base are not affected. These nucleotides are used for labeling DNA.\n\nAminoallyl NTPs are used for indirect DNA labeling in PCR, nick translation, primer extensions and cDNA synthesis. These labeled NTPs are helpful because of their application in molecular biology labs where they do not have the capacity to handle radioactive material. For example, 5-(3-Aminoallyl)-Uridine(AA-UTPs) are more effective for high density labeling of DNA than pre-labeling the DNA. After the enzymatic addition of the NTPs, amine reactant fluorescent dyes can be added for detection of the DNA molecule. When incorporated into DNA or RNA molecules by DNA/RNA polymerase, 5-(3-aminoallyl)-UTP provide a reactive group for the addition of other chemical groups. Thus aminoallyl modified DNA or RNA can be labeled with any compound which has an amine-reactive group.\naa-NTPs incorporated into DNA/RNA in combination with a secondary dye coupling reagents can probe for an array analysis.\n\ncDNA relies on aminoallyl labeling for detection purposes. Although direct labeling of dNTP is the quickest and cheapest method of fluorescent labeling, it is disadvantageous as the sequence allows for only one modified nucleotide for use. Another disadvantage of direct labeling is the bulky nucleotides, however this can be overcome by indirect labeling using aminoallyl modified nucleotides. An easy way to check for labeling success is the color;Good labeling will result in visible blue (Cy5) or red (Cy3) color in the final material.\n\nAnother process which uses aminoallyl labeling is NASBA ( Nucleic Acid Sequence Based Amplification), a highly sensitive technique for amplifying RNA. In this specific case, the aaUTP modified RNAs were tagged with fluorescent market Cy3. NASBA combined with aminoallyl-UTP labeling is very useful for many different areas of microbial diagnostics including environmental monitoring, bio threat detection, industrial process monitoring and clinical microbiology. DNA microarray is another method which utilizes specifically AA-NTP's making DNA microarray testing quicker and cheaply.\n\nPost-synthesis labeling avoids the problems found in direct enzymatic incorporation of Cy-labeled dNTPs by generating probes with equal labeling effectiveness. With indirect labeling, amine-modified NTPs are incorporated during reverse transcription, RNA amplification, or PCR. Amino allyl-NTPs are incorporated with similar efficiency as unmodified NTPs during polymerization.\n\nConcerns with labeling:\nThe amine group, in aminoallyl-modified nucleotide, is reactive with dyes such as the cyanine series, or other patented dyes. A problem arises when the dyes react with buffering agents which are necessary for the proper storage of the nucleotides. However, a carbonate buffer can be used to overcome this problem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2756", "title": "Asexual reproduction", "text": "Asexual reproduction\n\nAsexual reproduction is a type of reproduction by which offspring arise from a single organism, and inherit the genes of that parent only; it does not involve the fusion of gametes, and almost never changes the number of chromosomes. Asexual reproduction is the primary form of reproduction for single-celled organisms such as archaea and bacteria. Many plants and fungi sometimes reproduce asexually.\n\nWhile all prokaryotes reproduce without the formation and fusion of gametes, mechanisms for lateral gene transfer such as conjugation, transformation and transduction can be likened to sexual reproduction in the sense of genetic recombination in meiosis. A complete lack of sexual reproduction is relatively rare among multicellular organisms, particularly animals. It is not entirely understood why the ability to reproduce sexually is so common among them. Current hypotheses suggest that asexual reproduction may have short term benefits when rapid population growth is important or in stable environments, while sexual reproduction offers a net advantage by allowing more rapid generation of genetic diversity, allowing adaptation to changing environments. Developmental constraints may underlie why few animals have relinquished sexual reproduction completely in their life-cycles. Another constraint on switching from sexual to asexual reproduction would be the concomitant loss of meiosis and the protective recombinational repair of DNA damage afforded as one function of meiosis.\n\nAn important form of fission is binary fission, where the parent organism is replaced by two daughter organisms, because it literally divides in two. Only prokaryotes (the archaea and the bacteria) reproduce asexually through binary fission. Eukaryotes (such as protists and unicellular fungi) may reproduce in a functionally similar manner by mitosis; most of these are also capable of sexual reproduction.\n\nMultiple fission at the cellular level occurs in many protists, e.g. sporozoans and algae. The nucleus of the parent cell divides several times by mitosis, producing several nuclei. The cytoplasm then separates, creating multiple daughter cells.\n\nIn apicomplexans, multiple fission, or schizogony appears either as merogony, sporogony or gametogony. Merogony results in merozoites, which are multiple daughter cells, that originate within the same cell membrane, sporogony results in sporozoites, and gametogony results in microgametes.\n\nSome cells split via budding (for example baker's yeast), resulting in a \"mother\" and \"daughter\" cell. The offspring organism is smaller than the parent. Budding is also known on a multicellular level; an animal example is the hydra, which reproduces by budding. The buds grow into fully matured individuals which eventually break away from the parent organism. \n\nInternal budding is a process of asexual reproduction, favoured by parasites such as \"Toxoplasma gondii\". It involves an unusual process in which two (\"endodyogeny\") or more (\"endopolygeny\") daughter cells are produced inside a mother cell, which is then consumed by the offspring prior to their separation.\n\nAlso, budding (external or internal) is present in some worm like Taenia or Echinococci; these worm produce cyst and then produce (invaginated or evaginated) protoscolex with budding.\n\nVegetative propagation is a type of asexual reproduction found in plants where new individuals are formed without the production of seeds or spores by meiosis or syngamy. Examples of vegetative reproduction include the formation of miniaturized plants called plantlets on specialized leaves (for example in kalanchoe) and some produce new plants out of rhizomes or stolon (for example in strawberry). Other plants reproduce by forming bulbs or tubers (for example tulip bulbs and dahlia tubers). Some plants produce adventitious shoots and may form a clonal colony, where all the individuals are clones, and the clones may cover a large area.\n\nMany multicellular organisms form spores during their biological life cycle in a process called sporogenesis. Exceptions are animals and some protists, who undergo \"meiosis\" immediately followed by fertilization. Plants and many algae on the other hand undergo \"sporic meiosis\" where meiosis leads to the formation of haploid spores rather than gametes. These spores grow into multicellular individuals (called gametophytes in the case of plants) without a fertilization event. These haploid individuals give rise to gametes through mitosis. Meiosis and gamete formation therefore occur in separate generations or \"phases\" of the life cycle, referred to as alternation of generations. Since sexual reproduction is often more narrowly defined as the fusion of gametes (fertilization), spore formation in plant sporophytes and algae might be considered a form of asexual reproduction (agamogenesis) despite being the result of meiosis and undergoing a reduction in ploidy. However, both events (spore formation and fertilization) are necessary to complete sexual reproduction in the plant life cycle.\n\nFungi and some algae can also utilize true asexual spore formation, which involves mitosis giving rise to reproductive cells called mitospores that develop into a new organism after dispersal. This method of reproduction is found for example in conidial fungi and the red algae \"Polysiphonia\", and involves sporogenesis without meiosis. Thus the chromosome number of the spore cell is the same as that of the parent producing the spores. However, mitotic sporogenesis is an exception and most spores, such as those of plants, most Basidiomycota, and many algae, are produced by meiosis.\n\nFragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms. Animals that reproduce asexually include planarians, many annelid worms including polychaetes and some oligochaetes, turbellarians and sea stars. Many fungi and plants reproduce asexually. Some plants have specialized structures for reproduction via fragmentation, such as \"gemma\" in liverworts. Most lichens, which are a symbiotic union of a fungus and photosynthetic algae or bacteria, reproduce through fragmentation to ensure that new individuals contain both symbiont. These fragments can take the form of \"soredia\", dust-like particles consisting of fungal hyphen wrapped around photobiont cells.\n\nClonal Fragmentation in multicellular or colonial organisms is a form of asexual reproduction or cloning where an organism is split into fragments. Each of these fragments develop into mature, fully grown individuals that are clones of the original organism. In echinoderms, this method of reproduction is usually known as fissiparity. Researchers claim today that due to many environmental and epigenetic differences, that clones originated in the same ancestor might actually be genetically and epigenetically different.\n\nAgamogenesis is any form of reproduction that does not involve a male gamete. Examples are parthenogenesis and apomixis.\n\nParthenogenesis is a form of agamogenesis in which an unfertilized egg develops into a new individual. Parthenogenesis occurs naturally in many plants, invertebrates (e.g. water fleas, rotifers, aphids, stick insects, some ants, bees and parasitic wasps), and vertebrates (e.g. some reptiles, amphibians, rarely birds). In plants, apomixis may or may not involve parthenogenesis.\n\nApomixis in plants is the formation of a new sporophyte without fertilization. It is important in ferns and in flowering plants, but is very rare in other seed plants. In flowering plants, the term \"apomixis\" is now most often used for agamospermy, the formation of seeds without fertilization, but was once used to include vegetative reproduction. An example of an apomictic plant would be the triploid European dandelion. Apomixis mainly occurs in two forms: In gametophytic apomixis, the embryo arises from an unfertilized egg within a diploid embryo sac that was formed without completing meiosis. In nucellar embryony, the embryo is formed from the diploid nucellus tissue surrounding the embryo sac. Nucellar embryony occurs in some citrus seeds. Male apomixis can occur in rare cases, such as the Saharan Cypress \"Cupressus dupreziana\", where the genetic material of the embryo are derived entirely from pollen.\n\nSome species can alternate between sexual and asexual strategies, an ability known as heterogamy, depending on conditions. Alternation is observed in several rotifer species (cyclical parthenogenesis e.g. in Brachionus species) and a few types of insects, such as aphids which will, under certain conditions, produce eggs that have not gone through meiosis, thus cloning themselves. The cape bee \"Apis mellifera\" subsp. \"capensis\" can reproduce asexually through a process called thelytoky. A few species of amphibians, reptiles , and birds have a similar ability.For example, the freshwater crustacean \"Daphnia\" reproduces by parthenogenesis in the spring to rapidly populate ponds, then switches to sexual reproduction as the intensity of competition and predation increases. Another example are monogonont rotifers of the genus \"Brachionus\", which reproduce via cyclical parthenogenesis: at low population densities females produce asexually and at higher densities a chemical cue accumulates and induces the transition to sexual reproduction. Many protists and fungi alternate between sexual and asexual reproduction.\n\nFor example, the slime mold \"Dictyostelium\" undergoes binary fission (mitosis) as single-celled amoebae under favorable conditions. However, when conditions turn unfavorable, the cells aggregate and follow one of two different developmental pathways, depending on conditions. In the social pathway, they form a multicellular slug which then forms a fruiting body with asexually generated spores. In the sexual pathway, two cells fuse to form a giant cell that develops into a large cyst. When this macrocyst germinates, it releases hundreds of amoebic cells that are the product of meiotic recombination between the original two cells.\n\nThe hyphae of the common mold (\"Rhizopus\") are capable of producing both mitotic as well as meiotic spores. Many algae similarly switch between sexual and asexual reproduction. A number of plants use both sexual and asexual means to produce new plants, some species alter their primary modes of reproduction from sexual to asexual under varying environmental conditions.\n\nFor example, in the rotifer \"Brachionus calyciflorus\" asexual reproduction (obligate parthenogenesis) can be inherited by a recessive allele, which leads to loss of sexual reproduction in homozygous offspring.\nInheritance of asexual reproduction by a single recessive locus has also been found in the parasitoid wasp \"Lysiphlebus fabarum\".\n\nAsexual reproduction is found in nearly half of the animal phyla. Parthenogenesis occurs in the hammerhead shark and the blacktip shark. In both cases, the sharks had reached sexual maturity in captivity in the absence of males, and in both cases the offspring were shown to be genetically identical to the mothers. The New Mexico whiptail is another example.\n\nReptiles use the ZW sex-determination system, which produces either males (with ZZ sex chromosomes) or females (with ZW or WW sex chromosomes). Until 2010, it was thought that the ZW chromosome system used by reptiles was incapable of producing viable WW offspring, but a (ZW) female boa constrictor was discovered to have produced viable female offspring with WW chromosomes. The female boa could have chosen any number of male partners (and had successfully in the past) but on these occasions she reproduced asexually, creating 22 female babies with WW sex-chromosomes.\n\nPolyembryony is a widespread form of asexual reproduction in animals, whereby the fertilized egg or a later stage of embryonic development splits to form genetically identical clones. Within animals, this phenomenon has been best studied in the parasitic Hymenoptera. In the 9-banded armadillos, this process is obligatory and usually gives rise to genetically identical quadruplets. In other mammals, monozygotic twinning has no apparent genetic basis, though its occurrence is common. There are at least 10 million identical human twins and triplets in the world today.\n\nBdelloid rotifers reproduce exclusively asexually, and all individuals in the class Bdelloidea are females. Asexuality evolved in these animals millions of years ago and has persisted since. There is evidence to suggest that asexual reproduction has allowed the animals to evolve new proteins through the Meselson effect that have allowed them to survive better in periods of dehydration.\n\nMolecular evidence strongly suggests that several species of the stick insect genus \"Timema\" have used only asexual (parthenogenetic) reproduction for millions of years, the longest period known for any insect.\n\nIn the grass thrips genus \"Aptinothrips\" there have been several transitions to asexuality, likely due to different causes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43480298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43480298", "title": "Babelfy", "text": "Babelfy\n\nBabelfy is a software algorithm for the disambiguation of text written in any language. Specifically, Babelfy performs the tasks of multilingual Word Sense Disambiguation (i.e., the disambiguation of common nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs) and Entity Linking (i.e. the disambiguation of mentions to encyclopedic entities like people, companies, places, etc.). Babelfy is based on the BabelNet multilingual semantic network and performs disambiguation and entity linking in three steps:\n\n\nAs a result, the text, written in any of the 271 languages supported by BabelNet, is output with possibly overlapping semantic annotations.\n\n"}
{"id": "20617631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20617631", "title": "Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories", "text": "Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories\n\nDuring Barack Obama's campaign for president in 2008, throughout his presidency, and afterwards, a number of conspiracy theories falsely asserted Obama was ineligible to be President of the United States because he was not a natural-born citizen of the U.S. as required by .\n\nTheories alleged that Obama's published birth certificate was a forgery—that his actual birthplace was not Hawaii but Kenya. Other theories alleged that Obama became a citizen of Indonesia in childhood, thereby losing his U.S. citizenship. Still others claimed that Obama was not a natural-born U.S. citizen because he was born a dual citizen (British and American). A number of political commentators have characterized these various claims as a racist reaction to Obama's status as the first African-American president of the United States.\n\nThese claims were promoted by fringe theorists (pejoratively referred to as \"birthers\"), some of whom sought court rulings either to declare Obama ineligible to take office, or granting access to various documents which they claimed would evidence such ineligibility; none of these efforts were successful. Some political opponents, especially in the Republican Party, have expressed skepticism about Obama's citizenship or been unwilling to acknowledge it; some have proposed legislation which would require presidential candidates to provide proof of eligibility.\n\nExpressed belief in such theories has persisted despite Obama's pre-election release of his official Hawaiian birth certificate in 2008, confirmation by the Hawaii Department of Health based on the original documents, the April 2011 release of a certified copy of Obama's original Certificate of Live Birth (or \"long-form birth certificate\"), and contemporaneous birth announcements published in Hawaii newspapers. Polls conducted in 2010 (before the April 2011 release) suggested that at least 25% of adult Americans said that they doubted Obama's U.S. birth, and subsequently a May 2011 Gallup poll found that the percentage had fallen to 13% of American adults (23% of Republicans) who continued to express such doubts. This plummeting percentage of doubters has been attributed to President Obama's release of the long form in April 2011. \n\nPeople who express doubts about Obama's eligibility or reject details about his early life are often informally called \"birthers\", a term that parallels the nickname \"truthers\" for adherents of 9/11 conspiracy theories. These conspiracy theorists reject at least some of the following facts about his early life:\n\nBarack Obama was born on August 4, 1961, at Kapi'olani Maternity & Gynecological Hospital (now called Kapi'olani Medical Center for Women & Children) in Honolulu, Hawaii, to Ann Dunham, from Wichita, Kansas, and her husband Barack Obama Sr., a Luo from Nyang'oma Kogelo, Nyanza Province (in what was then the Colony and Protectorate of Kenya), who was attending the University of Hawaii. Birth notices for Barack Obama were published in \"The Honolulu Advertiser\" on August 13 and the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" on August 14, 1961. Obama's father's immigration file also clearly states Barack Obama was born in Hawaii. One of his high school teachers, who was acquainted with his mother at the time, remembered hearing about the day of his birth.\n\nObama's parents were divorced in 1964. He attended kindergarten in 1966–1967 at Noelani Elementary School in Honolulu. In 1967, his mother married Indonesian student Lolo Soetoro, who was also attending the University of Hawaii, and the family moved to Jakarta, Indonesia, where Obama attended the Catholic St. Francis of Assisi School before transferring to State Elementary School Menteng 01, an elite Indonesian public school in Menteng. As a child in Indonesia, Obama was called \"Barry\", sometimes Barry Soetoro, reflecting his stepfather's surname, and sometimes Barry Obama, using his father's surname. When he was ten years old, Obama returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham, and has resided continuously in the United States since 1971.\n\nConspiracy theories about Obama's religion appeared at least as early as his 2004 U.S. Senate campaign in a press release by Illinois political candidate Andy Martin, and, according to a \"Los Angeles Times\" editorial, as Internet rumors.\n\nFrom the start of March 2008, rumors that Obama was born in Kenya before being flown to Hawaii were spread on conservative websites, with the suggestion that this would disqualify Obama from the presidency. In April of that year, anonymous e-mails from supporters of Hillary Clinton repeated the same rumor, including a Clinton Iowa campaign worker, who was fired for sending the e-mail. These and numerous other chain e-mails during the subsequent presidential election circulated false rumors about Obama's origin, religion, and birth certificate.\n\nOn June 9, 2008, Jim Geraghty of the conservative website \"National Review Online\" suggested that Obama release his birth certificate. Geraghty wrote that releasing his birth certificate could debunk several false rumors circulating on the Internet, namely: that his middle name was originally Muhammad rather than Hussein; that his mother had originally named him \"Barry\" rather than \"Barack\"; and that Barack Obama Sr. was not his biological father, as well as the rumor that Barack Obama was not a natural-born citizen.\n\nIn August 2008, Philip J. Berg, a former member of the Democratic State Committee of Pennsylvania, brought an unsuccessful lawsuit against Obama, which alleged \"that Obama was born in Mombasa, Kenya.\"\n\nIn October 2008, an NPR article referred to \"Kenyan-born Sen. Barack Obama.\" Also that month, anonymous e-mails circulated claiming that the Associated Press (AP) had reported Obama was \"Kenyan-Born\". The claims were based on an AP story that had appeared five years earlier in a Kenyan publication, \"The Standard\". The rumor-checking website Snopes.com found that the headline and lead-in sentence describing Obama as born in Kenya and misspelling his first name had been added by the Kenyan newspaper, and did not appear in the story issued by the AP or in any other contemporary newspaper that picked up the AP story.\n\nIn 2012, the far-right website Breitbart published a copy of a promotional booklet that Obama's literary agency, Acton & Dystel, printed in 1991 (and later posted to their website, in a biography in place until April 2007) which misidentified Obama's birthplace and states that Obama was \"born in Kenya and raised in Indonesia and Hawaii.\" When this was posted by Breitbart, the booklet's editor said that this incorrect information had been her mistake, not based on anything provided to her agency by Obama.\n\nOn June 12, 2008, Obama's campaign responded to the rumors by posting an image of Obama's birth certificate on the \"\"Fight The Smears\"\" website.\n\nThe image is a scan of a laser-printed document obtained from and certified by the Hawaii Department of Health on June 6, 2007. It is a \"Certification of Live Birth\", sometimes referred to as a short form birth certificate, and contains less information than the longer \"Certificate of Live Birth\", which Hawaii no longer issues. Asked about this, Hawaiian Department of Health spokeswoman Janice Okubo explained that Hawaii stopped issuing the longer \"Certificate\" in 2001 when their birth records were \"put into electronic files for consistent reporting\", and therefore Hawaii \"does not have a short-form or long-form certificate\". A \"record of live birth\", partially handwritten and partially typed, was created and submitted in 1961 when Obama was born, and is \"located in a bound volume in a file cabinet on the first floor of the state Department of Health\". The document was used to create the state's electronic records, and has been examined by state officials multiple times since the controversy began.\n\nIn releasing the certificate, the Obama website declared that the rumors \"aren't actually about that piece of paper – they're about manipulating people into thinking Barack is not an American citizen\". The campaign also provided the Daily Kos blog with a copy of the document. Referring to this release, \"National Review\" columnist Jim Geraghty, wrote on June 12, 2008: \n\nFrequent arguments of those questioning Obama's eligibility related to the fact that he did not originally release a copy of his \"original\" or \"long form\" birth certificate, but rather a \"short form\" version that did not include all of the information given on 1961 Hawaii-issued birth certificates. It was claimed that the use of the term \"certification of live birth\" on the first document means it is not equivalent to a \"birth certificate\". These arguments have been debunked numerous times by media investigations, every judicial forum that has addressed the matter, and Hawaiian government officials—among whom a consensus has been reached that the document released by the Obama campaign is indeed his official birth certificate. The director of the state Department of Human Health confirmed that the state \"has Sen. Obama's original birth certificate on record in accordance with state policies and procedures\". The short form is \"\"prima facie\" evidence of the fact of birth in any court proceeding\".\n\nThe release of the certificate in 2008 resulted in a fresh round of questions. It was asserted that the certificate had been digitally forged with Adobe Photoshop and lacked a stamped seal of the state, which led them to demand that Obama release his \"original\" 1961 birth certificate. Jerome Corsi, author of the book \"The Obama Nation: Leftist Politics and the Cult of Personality\", told Fox News that \"the campaign has a false, fake birth certificate posted on their website... it's been shown to have watermarks from Photoshop. It's a fake document that's on the Web site right now, and the original birth certificate the campaign refuses to produce.\" This view was rejected by FactCheck.org, which viewed the Obama campaign's hard copy of the Certification of Live Birth and reported that:\n\nThe director of Hawaii's Department of Health, Chiyome Fukino, issued a statement confirming that the state held Obama's \"original birth certificate on record in accordance with state policies and procedures\". Noting \"there have been numerous requests for Sen. Barack Hussein Obama's official birth certificate\", Fukino explained that the department was prohibited by state law from releasing it to \"persons who do not have a tangible interest in the vital record.\" She stated: \"No state official, including Gov. Linda Lingle, has ever instructed that this vital record be handled in a manner different from any other vital record in the possession of the State of Hawaii.\"\n\nAccording to the website TVNewser, CNN's researchers stated in 2009 that the original birth certificate no longer existed, as Hawaii discarded all paper birth records in 2001, and the certification of live birth was the official copy. Contradicting this report, Janice Okubo, public information officer for the Hawaii DOH, said \"We don't destroy vital records.\" The Health Department's director emphasized the assertion:\n\nJoshua Wisch, a spokesman for the Hawaii Attorney General's office, stated in 2011 that the original \"long form\" birth certificate — described by Hawaiian officials as a \"record of live birth\" kept in the archives of the Hawaii Department of Health is \"... a Department of Health record and it can't be released to anybody\", including President Obama. Wisch added that state law does not authorize photocopying such records.\n\nOn April 22, 2011, Obama asked Loretta Fuddy, director of the Hawaii Department of Health, for certified copies of his original Certificate of Live Birth (\"long-form birth certificate\"). Accompanying the letter was a written request from Judith Corley, Obama's personal counsel, requesting a waiver of the department's policy of issuing only computer-generated certificates. Corley stated that granting the waiver would relieve the department of the burden of repeated inquiries into the President's birth records.\n\nOn April 25, 2011, Fuddy approved the request and witnessed the copying process as the health department's registrar issued the certified copies. The same day, Corley personally visited the department headquarters in Honolulu to pay the required fee on Obama's behalf, and received the two requested certified copies of the original birth certificate, an accompanying letter from Fuddy attesting to the authenticity of same, and a receipt for the processing fee. Fuddy said that she had granted the exception to its normal policy of issuing only computer-generated copies by virtue of Obama's status, in an effort to avoid ongoing requests for the birth certificate.\n\nOn April 27, 2011, White House staffers gave reporters a copy of the certificate, and posted a PDF image of the certificate on the White House website. The certificate reconfirmed the information on the official short-form certificate released in 2008, and provided additional details such as the name of the hospital at which Obama was born.\n\nA claim put forth by the \"Drudge Report\" that the newly released document was a forgery made with image editing software quickly spread on the Internet. Nathan Goulding, chief technology officer of the \"National Review\" magazine, dismissed the matter of \"layered components\" found in the White House PDF by suggesting \"that whoever scanned the birth certificate in Hawaii forgot to turn off the OCR setting on the scanner.\" Nathan added \"I've confirmed that scanning an image, converting it to a PDF, optimizing that PDF, and then opening it up in Illustrator, does in fact create layers similar to what is seen in the birth certificate PDF. You can try it yourself at home.\"\n\nGoldie Taylor, a commentator for the African American news site \"The Grio\", characterized the demand that Obama provide his birth certificate as an equivalent of making him \"show his papers\", as blacks were once required to do under Jim Crow laws. Sociologist Matthew W. Hughey has cited many of the claims as evidence of racial \"othering\" of Obama against the conflation of the White Anglo-Saxon Protestant (WASP) subject as the ideal and authentic American citizen.\n\nSome opponents of Obama's presidential eligibility claim that he was born in Kenya and was therefore not born a United States citizen. Whether Obama having been born outside the U.S. would have invalidated his U.S. citizenship at birth is debated. Political commentator Andrew Malcolm, of the \"Los Angeles Times\", wrote that Obama would still be eligible for the presidency, regardless of where he was born, because his mother was an American citizen, saying that Obama's mother \"could have been on Mars when wee Barry emerged and he'd still be American.\" A contrary view is promoted by UCLA Law Professor Eugene Volokh, who has said that in the hypothetical scenario that Obama was born outside the U.S., he would be a natural-born citizen, since the then-applicable law would have required Obama's mother to have been in the U.S. at least \"five years after the age of 14\", but Ann Dunham was three months shy of her 19th birthday when Obama was born.\n\nAn incorrect but popularly reported claim is that his father's stepmother, Sarah Obama, told Anabaptist Bishop Ron McRae in a recorded transatlantic telephone conversation that she was present when Obama was born in Kenya.\n\nThe McClatchy newspapers gave an explanation of how the story about Obama's step-grandmother began. The tape is cut off in the middle of the conversation, before the passage in which she clarifies her meaning: \"'Obama was not born in Mombasa. He was born in America,' the translator says after talking to the woman. ... Another response later says, 'Obama in Hawaii. Hawaii. She says he was born in Hawaii.'\"\n\nSarah Obama shed more light on the controversy in a 2007 interview with the \"Chicago Tribune\". In the interview, Obama's paternal step-grandmother stated that six months after Barack Obama Sr. and Ann Dunham were married, she received a letter at her home in Kenya announcing the birth of Barack Obama II, who was born August 4, 1961.\n\nIn a June 2012 interview at her Kenyan home, Sarah Obama was asked: \"Some people want to believe that the president was born in Kenya. Have these people ever bothered you or asked for his birth certificate?\" Her response was: \"But Barack Obama wasn't born in Kenya.\"\n\nOn August 2, 2009, Orly Taitz released and attached to court documents a purported Kenyan birth certificate which she said, if authenticated and shown to be genuine, would significantly narrow and shorten the discovery and pre-trial litigation period in the \"Keyes v. Bowen\" lawsuit, in which the plaintiffs asked for a judicial order that Obama provide documentation that he is a natural-born citizen of the United States. Legal papers submitted describe the document as an \"unauthenticated color photocopy of certified copy of registration of birth\".\nThe document was almost immediately revealed to be a forgery. It purports to have been issued by the \"Republic of Kenya\", when in fact, such a state did not yet exist at the time of Obama's birth as indicated on the document (Kenya was a British Colony until 1963).\n\nSubsequently, evidence was unearthed that the alleged Kenyan birth certificate was a modified version of a 1959 Australian birth certificate found on an online genealogy website. The \"Washington Independent\" website cited an anonymous blogger as having taken responsibility for the forgery and posting four photos substantiating his claim.\n\nDespite the existence of Obama's Hawaii certification of live birth, Terry Lakin's attorney, among others, have claimed that anyone, including foreign-born children, could acquire a Hawaiian certification of live birth, and so Obama's possession of such a certificate does not prove that he was born in Hawaii. However, the suggestion that this could have applied to Obama was rejected by Janice Okubo, director of communications for the Hawaii Department of Health: \"If you were born in Bali, for example, you could get a certificate from the state of Hawaii saying you were born in Bali. You could not get a certificate saying you were born in Honolulu. The state has to verify a fact like that for it to appear on the certificate\". Another fact that refutes this specific claim is that the law allowing foreign-born children to obtain Hawaiian birth certificates did not exist until 20 years after Obama was born, while Obama's published birth certificate says his birth information was recorded four days after his birth in 1961, and explicitly states that he was born in Honolulu.\n\nAdditionally, some people claim that the information in the birth certificate only has to be based on the testimony of one parent.\n\nOn July 27, 2009, Fukino issued a statement explicitly stating she has \"seen the original vital records maintained on file by the Hawaii State Department of Health verifying Barack Hussein Obama was born in Hawaii and is a natural-born American citizen.\"\n\nHawaiian Department of Health spokeswoman Janice Okubo elaborated on state policy for the release of vital records: \"If someone from Obama's campaign gave us permission in person and presented some kind of verification that he or she was Obama's designee, we could release the vital record.\"\n\nA hospital spokesperson at Kapi'olani Medical Center for Women & Children has said that their standard procedure is to neither confirm nor deny Obama was born there, \"even though all the information out there says he was born at Kapiolani Hospital\", citing federal privacy laws.\nIn 1961, birth notices for Barack Obama were published in both the \"Honolulu Advertiser\" and the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" on August 13 and 14, 1961, respectively, listing the home address of Obama's parents as 6085 Kalanianaole Highway in Honolulu. On November 9, 2008, in response to the persistent rumors, the \"Advertiser\" posted on its web site a screenshot of the announcement taken from its microfilmed archives. Such notices were sent to newspapers routinely by the Hawaii Department of Health.\n\nIn an editorial published on July 29, 2009, the \"Star-Bulletin\" pointed out that both newspapers' vital-statistics columns are available on microfilm in the main state library. \"Were the state Department of Health and Obama's parents really in cahoots to give false information to the newspapers [...]?\" the newspaper asked.\n\nIt has been suggested that Obama obtained Indonesian citizenship (and thus may have lost U.S. citizenship) when he lived there as a child. As an attempt to prove that Obama was no longer a U.S. citizen (or held dual citizenship), some claim his 1981 trip to Pakistan took place at a time when there was supposedly a ban on United States passport holders entering that country, which would in turn have required him to use a non-U.S. passport. There was in fact no such ban. A \"New York Times\" article and U.S. State Department travel advisories from 1981 make it clear that travel to Pakistan by U.S. passport holders was legal at that time.\n\nAn April Fools' Day hoax email circulated on the Internet starting in 2009. It falsely claimed that Obama applied to Occidental College under the name \"Barry Soetoro\" claiming to be \"a foreign student from Indonesia\" in order to obtain a Fulbright scholarship (which does not exist for undergraduate students from Indonesia).\n\nAnother theory of Obama's ineligibility is that, regardless of his place of birth, he does not meet the constitutional definition of a natural-born citizen.\n\nThe Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution states: \"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States...\" According to law professor Gabriel J. Chin, \"there is agreement that 'natural born citizens' include those made citizens by birth under the 14th Amendment.\"\n\nDespite this agreement, two similar but distinct theories nonetheless contend Obama, although born in Hawaii, does not qualify as a \"natural-born citizen\".\n\nSome campaigners, such as the Tennessee-based Liberty Legal Foundation, contend that in order for a person to be a natural-born citizen within the meaning of Article II, Section 1, it is necessary that both parents be U.S. citizens at the time of that person's birth. Those who subscribe to this theory argue that since Obama's father was not a U.S. citizen, Obama could not have been a natural-born citizen, and is therefore ineligible to be President of the United States. The Liberty Legal Foundation has cited a passage in the decision on an 1875 voting rights case which came before the U.S. Supreme Court—\"Minor v. Happersett\"—in which the court stated there was no doubt that \"all children born in a country of parents who were its citizens\" were natural-born citizens. This legal theory on Obama's eligibility was unsuccessfully litigated several times, most notably in \"Ankeny v. Governor of the State of Indiana\" (2008).\n\nOthers, including New Jersey attorney Leo Donofrio, have falsely claimed that a person cannot be a natural-born citizen if he is a dual citizen at birth. Those who subscribe to this theory argue that because Obama's father was a Citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies at the time Obama was born, Obama was born a dual citizen and therefore was not a natural-born citizen.\n\nIn August 2008, the \"Rocky Mountain News\" ran an online article asserting that Obama is both a U.S. and a Kenyan citizen. This turned out to be incorrect according to FactCheck.org, which noted that Obama was indeed born a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies (CUKC) under British law, by virtue of his descent from a Kenyan father at a time when Kenya was a British colony, but lost CUKC citizenship and became a Kenyan citizen when that country gained independence in 1963. However, Kenya's 1963 constitution prohibited dual citizenship in adulthood. Obama therefore automatically lost his Kenyan citizenship on his 23rd birthday in 1984, by failing to formally renounce any non-Kenyan citizenship and swear an oath of allegiance to Kenya. Although the paper apologized for the error and published a correction, the article continued to provide fuel for online rumors about Obama's eligibility for the presidency. The current Kenyan constitution effective since 2010 permits dual citizenship, but requires those who lost Kenyan citizenship prior to 2010 to complete a registration process in order to regain citizenship.\n\nNotable advocates of the view that Obama may not be eligible for the Presidency include Philip J. Berg, a Pennsylvania attorney and 9/11 conspiracy theorist. Berg describes himself as a \"moderate to liberal\" Democrat who backed Hillary Clinton for president. Another notable advocate is Alan Keyes, who was defeated by Obama in the 2004 Illinois U.S. Senate election, served as a diplomat in the Reagan administration, and is currently a media personality and self-described \"conservative political activist\".\nOrly Taitz, a California dentist and attorney who emigrated from the Soviet Union to Israel, then to the United States, and holds dual U.S. and Israeli citizenship, has been called the \"queen bee of the birthers\", because she is often seen as the face of the movement.\n\nOther notable advocates include Andy Martin, a perennial candidate who was \"widely credited with starting the cyberwhisper campaign\" that Obama is a secret Muslim, and Robert L. Schulz, a tax protester and activist who placed full-page advertisements in the \"Chicago Tribune\" in December 2008 arguing that Obama had been born in Kenya or had subsequently renounced U.S. citizenship. Larry Klayman, founder of both Judicial Watch and Freedom Watch, expressed doubts about Obama's natural-born citizenship. The Constitution Party, a paleoconservative third party, also campaigned for release of Obama's original long-form certificate. In December 2008, Alex Koppelman, a senior writer for \"Salon\", characterized nearly all of the prominent people promoting the story Obama was not eligible to be president—including Jerome Corsi, Philip Berg, Andy Martin, and Robert Schultz—as having a \"history of conspiracist thought\".\n\nThe website AmericaMustKnow.com encouraged visitors to lobby members of the Electoral College to vote against Obama's confirmation as President and become faithless electors. Electors around the country received numerous letters and e-mails contending that Obama's birth certificate is a forgery and that he was born in Kenya, and requesting that Obama be denied the presidency. Some of the online campaigners coordinated their efforts with weekly conference calls, in which they discussed the latest news and how to advance the story.\n\nThe campaign was supported by the conservative \"WorldNetDaily\" (\"WND\") website, which sponsored a letter-writing campaign to the Supreme Court. \"WND\"s publisher Joseph Farah has written a number of editorials arguing that Obama's eligibility needs to be confirmed. \"WND\" has mounted an advertising campaign, using electronic billboards to ask \"Where's The Birth Certificate?\"\n\nThe talk radio hosts Michael Savage, G. Gordon Liddy, Brian Sussman, Lars Larson, Bob Grant, Jim Quinn, Rose Tennent, Barbara Simpson, Mark Davis, and Fred Grandy have all promoted the ineligibility claims on their radio shows. Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity and Lou Dobbs have also broached the issue several times on their shows. Savage, during an episode of his nationally syndicated radio show \"Savage Nation\", said that \"We're getting ready for the Communist takeover of America with a noncitizen at the helm.\"\n\nSome celebrities have promoted or touched upon the ineligibility claims, as well. In August 2009, actor Chuck Norris, while not embracing the eligibility claims, wrote an open letter to Obama urging that he officially release his \"original birth certificate\", saying, \"Refusing to post your original birth certificate is an unwise political and leadership decision that is enabling the 'birther' controversy.\" In December 2010, Baltimore Orioles baseball player Luke Scott asserted in a Yahoo! interview that Obama \"was not born here\" and that his birth certificate was never released. \"The Huffington Post\" reported that, in April 2011 during his stage show, Charlie Sheen said, \"For starters, I was fucking born here, how about that? And I got proof! Nothing photoshopped about my birth certificate.\"\n\nAccording to Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center, \"the birther movement has gained a large following on the radical right ... it has been adopted by the most noxious elements out there\". Some of those \"noxious elements\" include a number of avowed white-supremacist and neo-Nazi groups. James Wenneker von Brunn, an avowed white supremacist charged as the gunman in the June 10, 2009, United States Holocaust Memorial Museum shooting, had previously posted messages to the Internet accusing Obama and the media of hiding documents about his life.\n\nIn March 2017, after Obama was no longer the president, Malik Obama, his paternal half brother, posted on Twitter an image of a fake Kenyan birth certificate, which had been \"debunked\" in 2009 when it was first presented as part of one of the failed lawsuits that challenged Obama's ineligibility.\n\nIn 2010, at the urging of Donald Trump's lawyer Michael Cohen, the \"National Enquirer\" began promoting a potential Trump presidential campaign, and with Cohen's involvement, the tabloid began questioning Obama's birthplace and citizenship.\n\nIn March 2011, during an interview on \"Good Morning America\", Donald Trump said he was seriously considering running for president, that he was a \"little\" skeptical of Obama's citizenship, and that someone who shares this view should not be so quickly dismissed as an \"idiot\" (as Trump considers the term \"birther\" to be \"derogatory\"). Trump added, \"Growing up no one knew him\", a claim ranked Pants-on-Fire by Politifact. Later, Trump appeared on \"The View\" repeating several times that \"I want him [Obama] to show his birth certificate.\" He speculated that \"there [was] something on that birth certificate that [Obama] doesn't like\", a comment which host Whoopi Goldberg described as \"the biggest pile of dog mess I've heard in ages.\" On the March 30, 2011, edition of \"CNN Newsroom\", anchor Suzanne Malveaux commented on Trump's statements, pointing out that she had made a documentary for which she had gone to Hawaii and spoken with people who knew Obama as a child. In an NBC TV interview broadcast on April 7, 2011, Trump said he would not let go of the issue, because he was not satisfied that Obama had proved his citizenship. After Trump began making his views public, he was contacted by Joseph Farah of \"WorldNetDaily\", who was reportedly on the phone with Trump every day for a week, providing Trump with a \"birther primer\", answers to questions, and advice. After Obama released his long-form birth certificate on April 27, 2011, Trump said \"I am really honored and I am really proud, that I was able to do something that nobody else could do.\"\n\nOn October 24, 2012, Trump offered to donate five million dollars to the charity of Obama's choice in return for the publication of his college and passport applications before October 31, 2012.\n\nOn September 16, 2016, as the Republican Party presidential nominee, Trump conceded that \"President Barack Obama was born in the United States. Period.\" Trump gave himself credit for putting the controversy to rest and also repeated a false claim that Hillary Clinton, his opponent in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and one of Obama's opponents in the 2008 Democratic presidential primaries, had started the controversy concerning Obama's place of birth. While those who did so were Clinton supporters, there is no evidence of Clinton or her campaign questioning Obama's birthplace.\n\nVolunteer investigators working under the direction of Maricopa County, Arizona, Sheriff Joe Arpaio have asserted that Obama's birth certificate is a computer-generated forgery. Rejecting this claim, an assistant to Hawaii's attorney general stated in July 2012 that \"President Obama was born in Honolulu, and his birth certificate is valid... Regarding the latest allegations from a sheriff in Arizona, they are untrue, misinformed and misconstrue Hawaii law.\" Arizona state officials, including Governor Jan Brewer and Secretary of State Ken Bennett, have also dismissed Arpaio's objections and accepted the validity of Obama's birth certificate. Alex Pareene, a staff writer for \"Salon\", wrote regarding a May 2012 trip to Hawaii by Arpaio's people that \"I think we have long since passed the point at which I'd find this story believable in a fictional setting\". In December 2016, Arpaio presented \"9 points of forgery\" that he said proved that the digital image of Obama's long form birth certificate was not authentic. He said he would submit his evidence to federal authorities.\n\n Rep. Matthew Hill, one of a handful of Tennessee General Assembly members widely reported at the time to be birthers, demanded in 2009 that newly-elected president Obama should be compelled to present Hill and other Tennessee state legislators with a certified copy of his Hawaiian birth certificate.\n\nHill interviewed birther conspiracy advocate Orly Taitz at the National Religious Broadcasters Convention in Nashville for a February 10, 2009, segment podcasted online by the IRN/USA Radio Network. During \"The Matthew Hill Show\" he stated:\n\nWe've said on this program many times ... we've had people call in and say why are you picking on him? And I've said, \"Look it's really simple. If he is a U.S. citizen you produce the papers. If he's not a U.S. citizen, what does he do? He hides them. He's hiding them. We need the truth. We need the documents unsealed. We need to know what's going on.\n\nU.S. Senate candidate and former Chief Justice of the Alabama Supreme Court Roy Moore first questioned Obama's citizenship in 2008, and said in 2016 that he didn't believe Obama had natural-born citizenship.\n\nIn February 2009, the \"Cullman Times\", an Alabama newspaper, reported that at a town hall meeting there, U.S. Senator from Alabama Richard Shelby was asked if there was any truth to the rumors that Obama was not a natural-born citizen. According to the \"Times\" report, Shelby said, \"Well his father was Kenyan and they said he was born in Hawaii, but I haven't seen any birth certificate. You have to be born in America to be president.\"\n\nA Shelby spokesperson denied the story, but the newspaper stood by it.\n\nOn July 28, 2009, Mike Stark approached Missouri Congressman Roy Blunt asking him about the conspiracy theory that Barack Obama is not a natural-born citizen. Blunt responded: \"What I don't know is why the President can't produce a birth certificate. I don't know anybody else that can't produce one. And I think that's a legitimate question. No health records, no birth certificate.\" Blunt's spokesperson later claimed that the quote was taken out of context.\n\nAfter giving a speech at the Voice of America Freedom Rally in West Chester, Ohio on September 5, 2009, Republican congresswoman Jean Schmidt replied to a woman who commented that Obama was ineligible for the Presidency, \"I agree with you. But the courts don't.\" Schmidt's office subsequently responded that a video clip of this comment was \"taken out of context\", and reiterated that her stated position is that Obama is a citizen.\n\nShe had earlier voted to certify the Electoral College vote affirming his presidency, and had said she believes Obama is a U.S. citizen.\n\nIn November 2009, then-Representative Nathan Deal replied to a question about whether he believed that Obama \"is a native-born American citizen who is eligible to serve as president\" with a statement that \"I am joining several of my colleagues in the House in writing a letter to the President asking that he release a copy of his birth certificate so we can have an answer to this question.\" Contrasting the differing fates of Deal, who won the 2010 gubernatorial election in Georgia, and former Democratic Representative Cynthia McKinney, who lost her primary after endorsing 9/11 conspiracy theories, David Weigel of \"Slate\" noted: \"Dipping a toe into the birtherism fever swamp didn't stop Deal from winning a statewide primary.\"\n\nDuring a December 3, 2009 interview on Rusty Humphries' radio talk show, Humphries asked Sarah Palin if she would make Barack Obama's birth certificate a campaign issue in 2012, should she decide to run. Palin responded, \"I think the public rightfully is still making it an issue. I don't have a problem with that. I don't know if I would have to bother to make it an issue, because I think that members of the electorate still want answers.\" Humphries followed up, asking whether she thinks Obama's birth certificate is a fair question to be looking at. Palin answered, \"I think it's a fair question, just like I think past association and past voting records – all of that is fair game. The McCain–Palin campaign didn't do a good enough job in that area.\"\n\nAfter news organizations and blogs picked up the quotation, Palin issued a statement on her Facebook page in which she clarified that she meant to say that voters have the right to ask questions, and she herself has never asked Obama to produce a birth certificate. She then went on to compare questioning of Obama's birth certificate to questions that were raised during the 2008 presidential elections about her maternity to her son, Trig. This analogy was criticized by Mark Milian of the \"Los Angeles Times\", who commented that \"It's not like Barack Obama hosted a radio show and called her a baby faker.\" In addition, Andrew Sullivan, an established skeptic of Palin's relationship with Trig, wrote in response to her comments: \"Palin has never produced Trig's birth certificate or a single piece of objective medical evidence that proves he is indeed her biological son.\"\n\nTracey Mann, a candidate running for Congress from Kansas in 2010, stated at a candidate forum that Obama \"should show his birth certificate to really resolve this thing one way or another\". In a radio interview, he answered a question as \"I think the president of the United States needs to come forth with his papers and show everyone that he's an American citizen and put this issue to bed once and for all.\" In response, on July 21, 2010, \"The Hutchinson News\", a local paper in Hutchinson, Kansas, withdrew their endorsement of Mann, saying that Mann \"questions the citizenship of President Barack Obama despite evidence that is irrefutable to most objective, rational people – including a birth certificate released by the Hawaii secretary of state and birth announcements printed in Honolulu's two major newspapers\". Mann responded that he was \"disappointed and mystified by the \"Hutchinson News\" decision to withdraw their endorsement over a misunderstanding of [his] position\", as he is not \"interested in pursuing this issue in Congress\", and he has \"never had any interest in spending any time on the matter\". Mann was subsequently defeated in the Republican primary by state senator Tim Huelskamp.\n\nAt a townhall meeting in Metairie, Louisiana on July 11, 2010, Senator David Vitter responded to a question about Barack Obama's birth certificate saying \"I personally don't have standing to bring litigation in court, but I support conservative legal organizations and others who would bring that to court. I think that is the valid and most possibly effective grounds to do it.\" His campaign did not provide any additional comments on the matter.\n\nOn September 11, 2010, former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich stated that Obama could only be understood by people who \"understand Kenyan, anti-colonial behavior\". While Gingrich did not define what constitutes \"Kenyan, anti-colonial behavior\", White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs accused Gingrich of \"trying to appeal to the fringe of people who don't believe the president was born in this country\". Gibbs went on to say, \"You would normally expect better of somebody who held the position of Speaker of the House, but look, it is political season, and most people will say anything, and Newt Gingrich does that on a, genuinely, on a regular basis.\"\n\nIn December 2010, Andy Martin (plaintiff in \"Martin v. Lingle\" and self-described \"King of the Birthers\") announced his candidacy to seek the 2012 Republican nomination for the President of the United States. In February 2011, Martin's planned appearance at a Republican meeting in Deering, New Hampshire, was cancelled after his anti-Semitic past was discovered.\n\nOn February 28, 2011, on Steve Malzberg's radio program Mike Huckabee, a 2008 candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, falsely claimed that Obama had been raised in Kenya and that \"[Obama] probably grew up hearing that the British were a bunch of imperialists who persecuted his grandfather.\" Huckabee, speaking on \"The O'Reilly Factor\", said that he misspoke and intended to say Indonesia, characterizing his own comment as a \"verbal gaffe\".\n\nIn March 2011, Representative Michele Bachmann told conservative radio host Jeff Katz on his program, \"I'll tell you one thing, if I was ever to run for president of the United States, I think the first thing I would do in the first debate is offer my birth certificate, so we can get that off the table.\" Previously on \"Good Morning America\", when asked about President Obama's origins, she replied, \"Well, that isn't for me to state. That's for the president to state.\"\n\nOn May 12, 2012, Mike Coffman, a congressman running for re-election in the Sixth Congressional District of Colorado, addressed a Republican fund-raising event in Elbert County. Coffman stated that he did not know where President Barack Obama was born. Coffman went on to say of Obama that \"in his heart, he's not an American. He's just not an American.\" Coffman issued an apology on May 16, saying that he had misspoken and that he had confidence in President Obama's citizenship and legitimacy as president. In a May 23 \"Denver Post\" op-ed piece, Coffman described his comment as \"inappropriate and boneheaded.\"\n\nIn December 2012, three out of the eleven electors from Arizona who cast their votes for Mitt Romney, raised doubts about Barack Obama's birthplace. One of those electors was the chair of the Republican Party of Arizona, Tom Morrissey. Morrissey later insisted that he is not a birther, but stated that \"In [his] opinion, what [he has] seen from the president, produced as a birth certificate, does not convince [him] that it is a real document.\"\n\nAlthough claims about Obama's citizenship were evaluated in 2008 by the McCain campaign and ultimately rejected, they became a significant issue among sections of the political right. By mid-2009, the natural born citizen issue was one of the hottest and most lucrative sources of fundraising for organizations on the right that raise funds through direct mail and telemarketing. Online petition sites such as that of Alan Keyes, who has been collecting signatures on the birth certificate issue, are a major source for generating mailing lists of movement conservatives. The web site \"WorldNetDaily\" published more than 200 articles on the subject by July 2009 and has sold billboards, bumper stickers and postcards asking \"Where's the birth certificate?\" and similar slogans in an effort which has \"already raised tens of thousands of dollars.\"\n\nModerate conservatives have found themselves \"bombarded with birther stuff\". Protesters at the Tea Party protests in 2009 carried signs about the birth certificate issue, some of which were recommended by protest organizers. In an incident that attracted widespread media coverage, moderate Republican Representative Michael Castle was booed and heckled during a July 2009 town hall meeting in Georgetown, Delaware, when he told a woman protesting about Obama's birth certificate: \"if you're referring to the president there, he is a citizen of the United States.\"\n\nNBC Nightly News reported that other members of Congress often hear the issue too; an anonymous congressman told the program that he was reluctant to advertise his own town hall meetings for fear of this issue drowning out everything else.\n\nA number of Republican legislators have proposed legislation and constitutional amendments at the state and federal levels to address issues raised by the birth certificate campaigners. Some Republicans are said to \"want the issue to go away\", seeing it as a distraction. Democratic commentators have criticized the reluctance of some Republicans to distance themselves from the proponents of the conspiracy theories, suggesting that \"Republican officials are reluctant to denounce the birthers for fear of alienating an energetic part of their party's base\". NBC News' \"First Read\" team commented: \"the real story in all of this is that Republican Party has a HUGE problem with its base right now.\"\n\nRepublican National Committee Chairman Michael Steele released a statement through his spokesperson saying, \"Chairman Steele believes that this is an unnecessary distraction and believes that the president is a U.S. citizen\".\n\nConservative Joel Pollak, writing for \"The American Thinker\", has stated that the reason the \"Birther theory\" has caught on particularly among conservatives, is the weakness of the Republican opposition, stating:\n\nPolitical analyst Marc Ambinder of \"The Atlantic\" and \"CBS News\" suggests this phenomenon goes to the heart of the dilemma now facing the Republican Party, positing that\n\nPolitical analyst Andrew Sullivan, writing in \"The Sunday Times\", stated \n\nIn October 2008, the \"Orange County Register\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s OC Political Pulse poll found that a third of responding Republicans believed that Obama had been born outside the United States.\nAs a result of the widespread publicity given to the citizenship controversy, 60% of respondents in an Ohio State University survey carried out in November 2008 had heard of the issue. However, only 10% believed the claims that Obama was not a citizen.\n\nAn opinion poll carried out for Daily Kos by Research 2000 in July 2009 found that 77% of Americans believed that Obama was born in the U.S., while 11% didn't, and 12% were unsure. However, Republicans and Southerners were far more likely than other political or demographic groups to doubt that Obama was born in the United States. 58% of Republicans either believed that Obama was not born in the U.S. (28%) or were not sure (30%), with 42% believing that he was. An overwhelming majority of Democrats (93%) and independents (83%) believed that he was born in the U.S. Support for the belief that Obama was born outside the U.S. was strongest in the South, where only 47% of those polled believed he was born in the U.S., compared with an average of 90% of residents of the Northeast, Midwest and West. A marked racial disparity in the South was also apparent. \"Politico\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s congressional reporter, Glenn Thrush, commented that the Research 2000 poll \"explains why Republicans, including Roy Blunt, are playing footsie with the Birther fringe.\" Writing on \"National Journal's\" Pollster.com blog, Brendan Nyhan observed that the poll \"suggests that the encouragement of the birth certificate myth by conservative pundits and Republican politicians has begun to activate the GOP base on this issue.\"\n\nA Public Policy Polling survey carried out in August 2009 found that 32% of Republicans in Virginia thought that Obama was born in the U.S., 41% thought he was foreign-born and the remaining 27% were unsure.\n\nIn Utah, an August 2009 poll carried out for the \"Deseret News\" and KSL-TV found that 67% of Utahns accepted the evidence that Obama was born in the U.S. The poll found that those who do not believe that Obama was born in the United States, or do not know, are predominantly middle-aged, lower-income Republican-leaning individuals without a college education.\n\nA Pew Research Center poll found that 80% of Americans had heard about the Obama citizenship claims by August 2009. The poll found a significant partisan divide in views of the news coverage, with 58% of Democrats saying that the allegations had received too much attention from the media. Republicans were more inclined to say that the allegations had received too little attention, with 39% expressing this view against only 26% saying that the controversy had received too much attention.\n\nIn a Harris Poll online survey of 2,320 adults conducted in March 2010, 25% of the respondents said they believed that Obama was \"not born in the United States and so is not eligible to be president.\" In a July 2010 CNN poll of adult Americans, 16% said they had doubts that Obama was born in the United States, and a further 11% were certain that he was not.\n\nThe percentage of doubters plummeted after President Obama released the long form certificate in April 2011. A Gallup telephone poll of 1018 adults conducted in May 2011 found that 5% of respondents believed that Obama was \"definitely born in another country\" and 8% believed he was \"probably born in another country\", versus 47% believing he was \"definitely\" and 18% \"probably\" born in the US. Broken down by political affiliation, the same poll found that 23% of self-identified Republicans, 14% of independents, and 5% of Democrats thought Obama was definitely or probably born in another country.\n\nIn July 2016, four months before Donald Trump was elected to the presidency, 41 percent of Republicans disagreed that Obama was born in the United States and 31 percent neither agreed nor disagreed, per an NBC poll.\n\nBecause a portion of Republican voters and their Tea Party supporters believe Obama is not eligible to hold public office (see Opinion surveys section), Republicans sometimes found themselves caught in a dilemma between losing support or damaging their credibility. They had \"to walk the fine line of humoring conspiracy-minded supporters without explicitly questioning Obama's legitimacy...\" Other Republicans, including former Minnesota governor Tim Pawlenty and former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum, however, have plainly rejected these claims.\n\nAn example of these situations is Michael Castle, then Representative for Delaware, who ran in 2010 for the Senate seat vacated by Vice President Joe Biden. At a town hall meeting, Castle was confronted by constituents who jeered him for insisting that Obama is a citizen of the United States. Castle, one of the leading Republican moderates in the House, was later defeated by Tea Party-backed Christine O'Donnell in the Republican primary, who herself later lost the general election to Democratic nominee Chris Coons.\n\nProponents of claims doubting Obama's eligibility have been dubbed \"birthers\" by their critics, who have drawn a parallel with 9/11 conspiracy theorists or \"truthers\". Leslie Savan of \"The Nation\" has compared the so-called \"birthers\" to other groups as well, including those who deny the moon landing, the Holocaust or global warming; \"Teabaggers who refuse to believe they must pay taxes\" and creationists who believe the earth is 6,000 years old. MSNBC political commentator Rachel Maddow has defined a \"birther\" as: \n\nA number of conservative commentators have criticized its proponents and their effect on the wider conservative movement. Talk show host Michael Medved has also been critical, calling them \"the worst enemy of the conservative movement\" for making other conservatives \"look sick, troubled and not suitable for civilized company.\" Conservative columnist Ann Coulter has referred to them as \"just a few cranks.\" During the 2008 presidential campaign, conservative pundit Steve Sailer similarly dismissed birthers' claims, considering the theory that Obama was born in Kenya to be especially implausible: \n\nAn editorial in the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" dismissed the claims about Obama's eligibility as proposing \"a vast conspiracy involving Obama's parents, state officials, the news media, the Secret Service, think-tanks and a host of yet-to-be-uncovered others who have connived since Obama's birth to build a false record so that he could eventually seek the presidency 47 years later.\" The \"St. Petersburg Times'\" fact-checking website, PolitiFact.com, concluded its series of articles on the birth certificate issue by saying:\n\nIn November 2008, commentator and social critic Camille Paglia criticized the \"blathering, fanatical overkill\" of the topic, but also questioned Obama's response: \"Obama could have ended the entire matter months ago by publicly requesting Hawaii to issue a fresh, long-form, stamped certificate and inviting a few high-profile reporters in to examine the document and photograph it\", she said. A parenthetical in the same article noted that \"(The campaign did make the \"short-form\" certificate available to Factcheck.org)\".\n\nFactcheck.org noted, \"The Hawaii Department of Health's birth record request form does not give the option to request a photocopy of your long-form birth certificate, but their short form has enough information to be acceptable to the State Department.\"\n\nWriting in December 2008, Alex Koppelman discussed the validity of the common argument – that Obama should release a copy of his full, original certificate and the rumors and doubts would disappear. Conspiracy theory experts told Koppelman that when committed conspiracists are presented with more data debunking their theory, they refuse to accept the new evidence. \"Whatever can't be ignored can be twisted to fit into the narrative; every new disclosure of something that should, by rights, end the controversy only opens up new questions, identifies new plotters\", he wrote. Because Obama's release of the short-form had only \"stoked the fever of conspiracy mongers\", Koppelman predicted that releasing the long-form certificate \"would almost certainly\" continue the rumor cycle.\n\nIn response to the notion that Obama's grandparents might have planted a birth announcement in newspapers just so their grandson could some day be president, FactCheck suggested that \"those who choose to go down that path should first equip themselves with a high-quality tinfoil hat.\" Brooks Jackson, the director of FactCheck, comments that \"it all reflects a surge of paranoid distress among people who don't like Barack Obama\" and who want the election results to go away. Chip Berlet, a journalist who has studied the spread of conspiracy theories, notes\n\nFor some people, when their side loses an election, the only explanation that makes sense to them – that they can cope with – is that sinister, bad, evil people arranged some kind of fraud.\n\nAmerican political writer Dana Milbank, writing for the \"Washington Post\", described the Obama citizenship theories of Bob Schulz (chairman of the We the People Foundation, which in 2008 publicly challenged Obama's citizenship) as \"tales from the tinfoil-hat brigade\". Colorado presidential elector Camilla Auger, responding to lobbying of members of the Electoral College, commented: \"I was concerned that there are that many nutty people in the country making depressing, absurd allegations.\"\n\nSome commentators have asserted that racism is a factor motivating the promotion of Obama citizenship conspiracy theories. J. Richard Cohen, the President of the Southern Poverty Law Center, an organization that monitors hate groups and extremism, wrote an e-mail to supporters in July 2009 declaring: \"This conspiracy theory was concocted by an anti-Semite and circulated by racist extremists who cannot accept the fact that a black man has been elected president.\" An academic psychologist commented that a study published in the \"Journal of Experimental Social Psychology\" supported a conclusion that racism has played a role. Donald Trump's questioning how Obama gained admission to two Ivy-League institutions, as well as his comment, \"I have a great relationship with the blacks,\" led David Remnick, David Letterman and Bill Maher, among others, to accuse Trump of racism, and an increased attention on race with respect to Obama. In April 2011, Marilyn Davenport, a Tea Party activist and member of the executive committee of the Republican Party's local Orange County, California, organization, created a nationwide controversy when she circulated a photograph by email, widely seen as racist, that had been edited to depict Barack Obama as the child of two chimpanzees, and to which she had added the caption, \"Now you know why no birth certificate\". The party chapter censured her and asked her to resign, but she refused. Following the release of Obama's long-form certificate later that month, \"The New York Times\" remarked in an editorial that, \"It is inconceivable that this campaign to portray Mr. Obama as the insidious 'other' would have been conducted against a white president.\"\n\nThe controversy over Obama's citizenship and eligibility for the presidency prompted a number of Republican state and federal legislators to propose legislation aimed at requiring future presidential candidates to release copies of their birth certificates. Some legislators also lent their support to birth certificate-related litigation against Obama, joining as co-plaintiffs.\n\nAlthough Obama was confirmed as president-elect by Congress on January 8, 2009, and sworn in as President on January 20, litigation continued into his presidency. Numerous individuals and groups filed state or federal lawsuits seeking to have Obama disqualified from standing or being confirmed for the Presidency, or to compel him to release additional documentation relating to his citizenship. By mid-December 2008, at least 17 lawsuits had been filed challenging Obama's eligibility in states including North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Hawaii, Connecticut, New Jersey, Texas and Washington. No such suit resulted in the grant of any relief to the plaintiffs by any court; all of the cases were rejected in lower courts. Three post-election suits were dismissed by the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nIn April 2011, the Arizona legislature became the first to pass a bill \"requiring President Obama and other presidential candidates to prove their U.S. citizenship before their names can appear on the state's ballot\". The bill, HB 2177, was vetoed by Governor Jan Brewer on April 18.\n\nObama is not the first President to be the subject of controversy surrounding the location of his birth. Andrew Jackson was the subject of similar claims, although it is not certain that they were raised during his presidency. Some said that Chester A. Arthur was born outside the United States, with his birth records later allegedly falsified to show he was born in Vermont.\n\nIn May 2012, the Arizona Secretary of State, Ken Bennett, asked Hawaii to verify Obama's Hawaiian birth to ensure his eligibility to appear on the November ballot. After Bennett proved that he needed the information as part of the regular course of official business, Hawaii officially confirmed that the information in the copy of the Certificate of Live Birth for the President matches the original record in their files. Later the same month, the Mississippi state Democratic Party requested Hawaii to verify that the long-form image on the White House website matched the copy on file and they were provided with a certified verification, bearing the state seal and signed by state registrar Alvin T. Onaka, who had certified both released birth certificates.\n\nIn September 2012, the State Objections Board of Kansas, composed of \"three of the state's top elected Republicans\", delayed acting on a petition to remove Barack Obama's name from the ballot, requesting information from Hawaii regarding his birth certificate; but later voted unanimously to accept Obama's citizenship and retain him on the state's ballot, despite objections from the floor by Orly Taitz.\n\nA common claim among those arguing that President Obama was not born in Hawaii is that all doubt would be settled if Obama released his \"long form\" birth certificate. However, commentators noted that doing so would be disadvantageous to Obama. First, it would encourage speculation as to why it took so long to release the document. Second, caving in to his political adversaries' demands would embolden them by giving them a victory. Finally, it would open the door to demands for other personal records unrelated to his birth certificate. Despite these concerns, both Obama and his press secretary have responded to reporters' questions about the issue.\n\nAt the end of the May 27, 2009, press briefing, \"WorldNetDaily\" reporter Lester Kinsolving asked about Obama's birth certificate. White House press secretary Robert Gibbs replied, \"It's on the Internet\", to which Kinsolving responded \"No, no, no – the long form listing his hospital and physician.\" Gibbs responded as follows:\n\nAt a July 27, 2009, press briefing, radio talk show host Bill Press asked Gibbs if there was anything he could say to make the issue go away. Gibbs answered, \"No. I mean, the God's honest truth is no,\" because \"nothing will assuage\" those who continue to pursue what he called \"made-up, fictional nonsense\" despite the evidence that Obama had already provided.\n\nOn August 6, 2009, Gibbs commented, \"You couldn't sell this script in Hollywood,\" and summarized the contentions that he considered \"totally crazy\":\n\nAt the February 2010 National Prayer Breakfast, Obama commented, \"Surely you can question my policies without questioning my faith. Or for that matter my citizenship.\" He directly addressed the issue in August 2010, in an interview with Brian Williams. Williams asked Obama about the fact that a fifth of the American people do not believe that he is either American born or a Christian. Obama responded that \"there is a mechanism, a network of misinformation that in a new media era can get churned out there constantly\". He then added \"I can't spend all my time with my birth certificate plastered on my forehead.\"\n\nOn a few occasions, Obama has joked about the conspiracy theories surrounding his birth certificate and citizenship. At the 2010 White House Correspondents' Dinner, Obama said there are few things in life harder to find and more important to keep than love, and then added, \"Well, love and a birth certificate.\" At the 2011 Gridiron Dinner, Obama referred to Bruce Springsteen's song, \"Born in the U.S.A.\", and commented, \"Some things just bear repeating.\" On March 17, 2011 (Saint Patrick's Day), Obama said, \"Now, speaking of ancestry, there has been some controversy about my own background. Two years into my presidency, some are still bent on peddling rumors about my origins. So today, I want to put all those rumors to rest. It is true my great-great-great-grandfather really was from Ireland. It's true. Moneygall, to be precise. I can't believe I have to keep pointing this out.\" On January 17, 2012, during a televised tribute to actress Betty White on her 90th birthday, Obama taped a segment in which he wrote White a letter saying that, given her appearance and vitality, he not only could not believe she was 90, he \"did not\" believe her, and requested to see her birth certificate.\n\nIn an April 2011 interview with George Stephanopoulos, Obama said, \"I think that over the last two and a half years there's been an effort to go at me in a way that is politically expedient in the short-term for Republicans, but creates, I think a problem for them when they want to actually run in a general election where most people feel pretty confident the President was born where he says he was, in Hawaii. He doesn't have horns. We may disagree with him on some issues and we may wish that you know, the unemployment rate was coming down faster and we want him to know his plan on gas prices. But we're not really worrying about conspiracy theories or ... birth certificates. And so ... I think it presents a problem for them.\"\n\nOn April 27, 2011, referring to \"sideshows and carnival barkers\", Obama appeared in the White House press room an hour after the release of the long form and said, \"I know there is going to be a segment of people for which no matter what we put out this issue will not be put to rest. But I am speaking to the vast majority of the American people, as well as to the press. We do not have time for this kind of silliness. We've got better stuff to do.\"\n\nLater in 2011, Obama's re-election campaign offered for sale mugs with a picture of Obama (captioned \"Made in the USA\") and the image of the birth certificate. The campaign states, \"There's really no way to make the conspiracy about President Obama's birth certificate completely go away, so we might as well laugh at it – and make sure as many people as possible are in on the joke.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "532508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532508", "title": "Breech birth", "text": "Breech birth\n\nA breech birth is when a baby is born bottom first instead of head first. Around 3-5% of pregnant women at term (37–40 weeks pregnant) have a breech baby.\n\nMost babies in the breech position are born by a caesarean section because it is seen as safer than being born vaginally. Doctors and midwives in the developing world have thus lost many of the skills required to safely assist women giving birth to a breech baby vaginally. Delivering all breech babies by caesarean section in developing countries is difficult to implement as there are not always resources available to provide this service.\n\nWith regard to the fetal presentation during pregnancy, three periods have been distinguished.\n\nDuring the first period, which lasts until the 24th gestational week, the incidence of a longitudinal lie increases, with equal proportions of breech or cephalic presentations from this lie. This period is characterized by frequent changes of presentations. The fetuses in breech presentation during this period have the same probability for breech and cephalic presentation at delivery.\n\nDuring the second period, lasting from the 25th to the 35th gestational week, the incidence of cephalic presentation increases, with a proportional decrease of breech presentation. The second period is characterized by a higher than random probability that the fetal presentation during this period will also be present at the time of delivery. The increase of this probability is gradual and identical for breech and cephalic presentations during this period.\n\nIn the third period, from the 36th gestational week onward, the incidence of cephalic and breech presentations remain stable, i.e. breech presentation around 3-4% and cephalic presentation approximately 95%. In the general population, incidence of breech presentation at preterm corresponds to the incidence of breech presentation when birth occurs.\n\nA breech presentation at delivery occurs when the fetus does not turn to a cephalic presentation. This failure to change presentation can result from endogenous and exogenous factors. Endogenous factors involve fetal inability to adequately move, whereas exogenous factors refer to insufficient intrauterine space available for fetal movements.\n\nIncidence of breech presentation among diseases and medical conditions with the incidence of breech presentation higher than occurs in the general population, shows that the probability of breech presentation is between 4% and 50%. These data are related to:\n\nFetal entities: First twin 17-30%; Second twin 28-39%; Stillborn 26%; Prader-Willi syndrome 50%, Werdnig-Hoffman syndrome 10%; Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome 40%; Fetal alcohol syndrome 40%; Potter anomaly 36%; Zellweger syndrome 27%; Myotonic dystrophy 21%, 13 trisomy syndrome 12%; 18 trisomy syndrome 43%; 21 trisomy syndrome 5%; de Lange syndrome 10%; Anencephalus 6-18%, Spina bifida 20-30%; Congenital hydrocephalus 24-37%; Osteogenesis imperfecta 33.3%; Amyoplasia 33.3%; Achondrogenesis 33.3%; Amelia 50%; Craniosynostosis 8%; Sacral agenesis 30.4%; Arthrogriposis multiplex congenita 33.3; Congenital dislocation of the hip 33.3%; Hereditary sensory neuropathy type III 25%; Centronuclear myopathy 16.7%; Multiple pituitary hormone deficiency 50%; Isolated pituitary hormone deficiency 20%; Ectopic posterior pituitary gland 33.3%; Congenital bilateral perisilvian syndrome 33.3; Symmetric fetal growth restriction 40%; Asymmetric fetal growth restriction 40%; Nonimmune hydrops fetalis 15%; Atresia ani 18.2%; Microcephalus 15.4%; Omphalocele 12.5%; Prematurity 40%\n\nPlacental and amniotic fluid entities: Amniotic sheet perpendicular to the placenta 50%; Cornual-fundal implantation of the placenta 30%; Placenta previa 12.5%; Oligohydramnios 17%; Polyhydramnios 15.8%\n\nMaternal entities: Uterus arcuatus 22.6%; Uterus unicornuatus 33.3%; Uterus bicornuatus 34.8%; Uterus didelphys 30-41%; Uterus septus 45.8%; Leiomyoma uteri 9-20%; Spinal cord injury 10%; Carriers of Duchenne muscular dystrophy 17%\n\nCombination of two medical entities: First twin in uterus with two bodies 14.29%; Second twin in uterus with two bodies 18.52%.\n\nAlso, women with previous Caesarean deliveries have a risk of breech presentation at term twice that of women with previous vaginal deliveries.\n\nThe highest possible probability of breech presentation of 50% indicates that breech presentation is a consequence of random filling of the intrauterine space, with the same probability of breech and cephalic presentation in a longitudinally elongated uterus.\n\nTypes of breech depend on how the baby’s legs are lying.\n\n\nIn addition to the above, breech births in which the sacrum is the fetal denominator can be classified by the position of a fetus. Thus sacro-anterior, sacro-transverse and sacro-posterior positions all exist, but left sacro-anterior is the most common presentation. Sacro-anterior indicates an easier delivery compared to other forms.\n\nUmbilical cord prolapse may occur, particularly in the complete, footling, or kneeling breech. This is caused by the lowermost parts of the baby's not completely filling the space of the dilated cervix. When the waters break the amniotic sac, it is possible for the umbilical cord to drop down and become compressed. This complication severely diminishes oxygen flow to the baby, so the baby must be delivered immediately (usually by Caesarean section) so that he or she can breathe. If there is a delay in delivery, the brain can be damaged. Among full-term, head-down babies, cord prolapse is quite rare, occurring in 0.4 percent. Among frank breech babies the incidence is 0.5 percent, among complete breeches 5 percent, and among footling breeches 15 percent.\n\nHead entrapment is caused by the failure of the fetal head to negotiate the maternal midpelvis. At full term, the fetal bitrochanteric diameter (the distance between the outer points of the hips) is about the same as the biparietal diameter (the transverse diameter of the skull)—simply put the size of the hips are the same as the size of the head. The relatively larger buttocks dilate the cervix as effectively as the head does in the typical head-down presentation. In contrast, the relative head size of a preterm baby is greater than the fetal buttocks. If the baby is preterm, it may be possible for the baby’s body to emerge while the cervix has not dilated enough for the head to emerge.\n\nBecause the umbilical cord—the baby’s oxygen supply—is significantly compressed while the head is in the pelvis during a breech birth, it is important that the delivery of the aftercoming fetal head not be delayed. If the arm is extended alongside the head, delivery will not occur. If this occurs, the \"Løvset manoeuvre\" may be employed, or the arm may be manually brought to a position in front of the chest. The Løvset manoeuvre involves rotating the fetal body by holding the fetal pelvis. Twisting the body such that an arm trails behind the shoulder, it will tend to cross down over the face to a position where it can be reached by the obstetrician's finger, and brought to a position below the head. A similar rotation in the opposite direction is made to deliver the other arm. In order to present the smallest diameter (9.5 cm) to the pelvis, the baby’s head must be flexed (chin to chest). If the head is in a deflexed position, the risk of entrapment is increased. Uterine contractions and maternal muscle tone encourage the head to flex.\n\nOxygen deprivation may occur from either cord prolapse or prolonged compression of the cord during birth, as in head entrapment. If oxygen deprivation is prolonged, it may cause permanent neurological damage (for instance, cerebral palsy) or death. It has been suggested that a fast vaginal delivery would mean the risk of stopping baby’s oxygen supply is reduced. However, there is not enough research to show this and a quick delivery might cause more harm to the baby than a conservative approach to the birth.\n\nInjury to the brain and skull may occur due to the rapid passage of the baby's head through the mother's pelvis. This causes rapid decompression of the baby's head. In contrast, a baby going through labor in the head-down position usually experiences gradual molding (temporary reshaping of the skull) over the course of a few hours. This sudden compression and decompression in breech birth may cause no problems at all, but it can injure the brain. This injury is more likely in preterm babies. The fetal head may be controlled by a special two-handed grip call the Mariceau-Smellie-Veit manoeuvre or the elective application of forceps. This will be of value in controlling the rate of delivery of the head and reduce decompression. Related to potential head trauma, researchers have identified a relationship between breech birth and autism.\n\nSqueezing the baby’s abdomen can damage internal organs. Positioning the baby incorrectly while using forceps to deliver the after coming head can damage the spine or spinal cord. It is important for the birth attendant to be knowledgeable, skilled, and experienced with all variations of breech birth.\n\n\nAs in labour with a baby in a normal head-down position, uterine contractions typically occur at regular intervals and gradually the cervix begins to thin and open. In the more common breech presentations, the baby’s bottom (rather than feet or knees) is what is first to descend through the maternal pelvis and emerge from the vagina.\n\nAt the beginning of labour, the baby is generally in an oblique position, facing either the right or left side. The baby's bottom is the same size in the term baby as the baby's head. Descent is thus as for the presenting fetal head and delay in descent is a cardinal sign of possible problems with the delivery of the head.\n\nIn order to begin the birth, descent of podalic pole along with compaction and internal rotation needs to occur. This happens when the mother's pelvic floor muscles cause the baby to turn so that it can be born with one hip directly in front of the other. At this point the baby is facing one of the mother's inner thighs. Then, the shoulders follow the same path as the hips did. At this time the baby usually turns to face the mother's back. Next occurs external rotation, which is when the shoulders emerge as the baby’s head enters the maternal pelvis. The combination of maternal muscle tone and uterine contractions cause the baby’s head to flex, chin to chest. Then the back of the baby's head emerges and finally the face.\n\nDue to the increased pressure during labour and birth, it is normal for the baby's leading hip to be bruised and genitalia to be swollen. Babies who assumed the frank breech position in utero may continue to hold their legs in this position for some days after birth.\n\nWhen a baby is born bottom first there is more risk that the birth will not be straight forward and that the baby could be harmed. For example, when the baby's head passes through the mother’s pelvis the umbilical cord can be compressed which prevents delivery of oxygenated blood to the baby. Due to this and other risks, babies in breech position are usually born by a planned caesarean section in developed countries.\n\nCaesarean section reduces the risk of harm or death for the baby but does increase risk of harm to the mother compared with a vaginal delivery. It is best if the baby is in a head down position so that they can be born vaginally with less risk of harm to both mother and baby. The next section is looking at External cephalic version or ECV which is a method that can help the baby turn from a breech position to a head down position.\n\nVaginal birth of a breech baby has its risks but caesarean sections are not always available or possible, a mother might arrive in hospital at a late stage of her labour or may choose not to have a caesarean section. In these cases, it is important that the clinical skills needed to deliver breech babies are not lost so that mothers and babies are as safe as possible. Compared with developed countries, planned caesarean sections have not produced as good results in developing countries - it is suggested that this is due to more breech vaginal deliveries being performed by experienced, skilled practitioners in these settings.\n\nIn twin pregnancies, it is very common for one or both babies to be in the breech position. Most often twin babies do not have the chance to turn around because they are born prematurely. If both babies are in the breech position and the mother has gone into labour early, a cesarean section may be the best option. About 30-40% of twin pregnancies result in only one baby being in the breech position. If this is the case, the babies can be born vaginally. After the first baby who is not in the breech position is delivered, the baby who is presented in the breech position may turn itself around, if this does not happen another procedure may performed called the breech extraction. The breech extraction is the procedure that involves the obstetrician grabbing the second twin's feet and pulling him/her into the birth canal. This will help with delivering the second twin vaginally. However, if the second twin is larger than the first, complications with delivering the second twin vaginally may arise and a cesarean section should be performed. At times, the first twin (the twin closest to the birth canal) can be in the breech position with the second twin being in the cephalic position (vertical). When this occurs, risks of complications are higher than normal. In particular, a serious complication known as Locked twins. This is when both babies interlock their chins during labour. When this happens a cesarean section should be performed immediately.\n\nTurning the baby, technically known as external cephalic version (ECV), is when the baby is turned by gently pressing the mother’s abdomen to push the baby from a bottom first position, to a head first position. ECV does not always work, but it does improve the mother’s chances of giving birth to her baby vaginally and avoiding a cesarean section. The World Health Organisation recommends that women should have a planned cesarean section only if an ECV has been tried and did not work.\n\nWomen who have an ECV when they are 36–40 weeks pregnant are more likely to have a vaginal delivery and less likely to have a cesarean section than those who do not have an ECV. Turning the baby before this time makes a head first birth more likely but ECV before the due date can increase the risk of early or premature birth which can cause problems to the baby.\n\nThere are treatments that can be used which might affect the success of an ECV. Drugs called beta-stimulant tocolytics help the woman’s muscles to relax so that the pressure during the ECV does not have to be so great. Giving the woman these drugs before the ECV improves the chances of her having a vaginal delivery because the baby is more likely to turn and stay head down. Other treatments such as using sound, pain relief drugs such as epidural, increasing the fluid around the baby and increasing the amount of fluids to the woman before the ECV could all effect its success but there is not enough research to make this clear.\n\nTurning techniques mothers can do at home are referred to Spontaneous Cephalic Version (SCV), this is when the baby can turn without any medical assistance. Some of these techniques include; a knee to chest position, the breech tilt and moxibustion, these can be performed after the mother is 34 weeks pregnant. Although there is not a lot of evidence to support how well these techniques work, it has worked for some mothers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46416037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46416037", "title": "Celltrion", "text": "Celltrion\n\nCelltrion is a biopharmaceutical company headquartered in Incheon, South Korea. Celltrion Healthcare conducts worldwide marketing, sales, and distribution of biological medicines developed by Celltrion.\n\nIn 1999, Nexol, Inc. (now Celltrion Healthcare Co., Ltd.) a global business management consulting firm was founded. In 2002, Celltrion, Inc. a biopharmaceutical company was founded. In 2008, Nexol, Inc. and Celltrion, Inc. established a global distribution agreement.\n\nIn 2009, distribution channels were established in America, Oceania, Europe (Hospira) and Nexol, Inc. renamed as Celltrion Healthcare Co., Ltd. In 2010, Distribution channels were established in Japan (Nippon Kayaku), Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Eastern Europe, and the Middle East (Egis). In 2013, distribution channels were added in Europe (Mundipharma, Biogaran, Kern)\n\nThe company’s products are manufactured at mammalian cell culture facilities designed and built to comply with the United States FDA’s cGMP, and the European Medicines Agency’s GMP standards.\n\nRemsima™ (infliximab) is a biosimilar monoclonal antibody against tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for treatment of:\n\nIn 2012 Remsima was approved by the Republic of Korea’s Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (MFDS), previously known as Korea Food and Drug Administration and in 2013 it became the world’s first biosimilar monoclonal antibody (mAb) approved by the EMA.\n\nHerzuma™ is a biosimilar trastuzumab approved by the MFDS for treatment of early and advanced (metastatic) HER2+ breast cancer as well as advanced (metastatic) stomach cancer. \nHerzuma is a HER2+ breast cancer therapy designed to treat aggressive HER positive metastatic and adjuvant breast cancer, as well as HER2 positive adenocarcinoma of the stomach that has spread (metastatic or advanced gastric cancer).\n\nTruxima™ (previous known as CT-P10) is the first biosimilar of the reference monoclonal antibody rituximab that targets CD20 molecule primarily found on the surface of B-cells. Its target indications are rheumatoid arthritis, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia.<ref name=\"ACR/ARHP Annual Meeting 2013\"></ref> It was approved by EMA in February 2017.\n"}
{"id": "34488964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34488964", "title": "Childbirth-related posttraumatic stress disorder", "text": "Childbirth-related posttraumatic stress disorder\n\nChildbirth-related posttraumatic stress disorder is a psychological disorder that can develop in women who have recently given birth. Its symptoms are not distinct from posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).\n\nExamples of symptoms of childbirth-related posttraumatic stress disorder include: intrusive symptoms such as flashbacks and nightmares, as well as symptoms of avoidance (including amnesia for the whole or parts of the event), problems in developing a mother-child attachment, not having sexual intercourse in order to prevent another pregnancy, and avoidance of birth and pregnancy related issues. Symptoms of increasing stress can be sweating, trembling, being irritated, and sleep disturbances.\n\nBirth can be traumatic in different ways. Medical problems can result in interventions that can be frightening. The near death of a mother or baby, heavy bleeding, and emergency operations are examples of situations that can cause psychological trauma. Premature birth may be traumatic.\nEmotional difficulties in coping with the pain of childbirth can also cause psychological trauma. Lack of support, or insufficient coping strategies to deal with the pain are examples of situations that can cause psychological trauma. However, even normal birth can be traumatic, and thus PTSD is diagnosed based on symptoms of the mother and not whether or not there were complications.\nAdditionally, in the process of birth, medical professionals who are there to aid the birthing mother may need to examine and perform procedures in the genital regions.\n\nThe following are correlated with PTSD: \n\nChildbirth-related PTSD is not a recognized diagnosis in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\". Many women presenting with symptoms of PTSD after childbirth are misdiagnosed with postpartum depression or adjustment disorders. These diagnoses can lead to inadequate treatment.\n\nPrevalence of PTSD following normal childbirth (excluding stillbirth or major complications) is estimated to be between 2.8 and 5.6% at 6 weeks postpartum, with rates dropping to 1.5% at 6 months postpartum. Symptoms of PTSD are common following childbirth, with prevalence of 24-30.1% at 6 weeks, dropping to 13.6% at 6 months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10839226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10839226", "title": "Cultured neuronal network", "text": "Cultured neuronal network\n\nA cultured neuronal network is a cell culture of neurons that is used as a model to study the central nervous system, especially the brain. Often, cultured neuronal networks are connected to an input/output device such as a multi-electrode array (MEA), thus allowing two-way communication between the researcher and the network. This model has proved to be an invaluable tool to scientists studying the underlying principles behind neuronal learning, memory, plasticity, connectivity, and information processing.\n\nCultured neurons are often connected via computer to a real or simulated robotic component, creating a hybrot or animat, respectively. Researchers can then thoroughly study learning and plasticity in a realistic context, where the neuronal networks are able to interact with their environment and receive at least some artificial sensory feedback. One example of this can be seen in the Multielectrode Array Art (MEART) system developed by the Potter Research Group at the Georgia Institute of Technology in collaboration with SymbioticA, The Centre for Excellence in Biological Art, at the University of Western Australia. Another example can be seen in the neurally controlled animat.\n\nThe use of cultured neuronal networks as a model for their \"in vivo\" counterparts has been an indispensable resource for decades. It allows researchers to investigate neuronal activity in a much more controlled environment than would be possible in a live organism. Through this mechanism researchers have gleaned important information about the mechanisms behind learning and memory.\n\nA cultured neuronal network allows researchers to observe neuronal activity from several vantage points. Electrophysiological recording and stimulation can take place either across the network or locally via an MEA, and the network development can be visually observed using microscopy techniques. Moreover, chemical analysis of the neurons and their environment is more easily accomplished than in an \"in vivo\" setting.\n\nCultured neuronal networks are by definition disembodied cultures of neurons. Thus by being outside their natural environment, the neurons are influenced in ways that are not biologically normal. Foremost among these abnormalities is the fact that the neurons are usually harvested as neural stem cells from a fetus and are therefore disrupted at a critical stage in network development. When the neurons are suspended in solution and subsequently dispensed, the connections previously made are destroyed and new ones formed. Ultimately, the connectivity (and consequently the functionality) of the tissue is changed from what the original template suggested.\n\nAnother disadvantage lies in the fact that the cultured neurons lack a body and are thus severed from sensory input as well as the ability to express behavior – a crucial characteristic in learning and memory experiments. It is believed that such sensory deprivation has adverse effects on the development of these cultures and may result in abnormal patterns of behavior throughout the network.\n\nCultured networks on traditional MEAs are flat, single-layer sheets of cells with connectivity only two dimensions. Most \"in vivo\" neuronal systems, to the contrary, are large three-dimensional structures with much greater interconnectivity. This remains one of the most striking differences between the model and the reality, and this fact probably plays a large role in skewing some of the conclusions derived from experiments based on this model.\n\nBecause of their wide availability, neuronal networks are typically cultured from dissociated rat neurons. Studies commonly employ rat cortical, hippocampal, and spinal neurons, although lab mouse neurons have also been used. Currently, relatively little research has been conducted on growing primate or other animal neuronal networks. Harvesting neural stem cells requires sacrificing the developing fetus, a process considered too costly to perform on many mammals that are valuable in other studies.\n\nOne study, however, did make use of human neural stem cells grown into a network to control a robotic actuator. These cells were acquired from a fetus that spontaneously aborted after ten weeks in gestation.\n\nOne of the most formidable problems associated with cultured neuronal networks is their lack of longevity. Like most cell cultures, neuron cultures are highly susceptible to infection. They are also susceptible to hyperosmolality from medium evaporation. The long timelines associated with studying neuronal plasticity (usually on the scale of months) makes extending the lifespan of neurons \"in vitro\" paramount.\n\nOne solution to this problem involves growing cells on an MEA inside a sealed chamber. This chamber serves as a non-humidified incubator that is enclosed by a fluorinated ethylene propylene (FEP) membrane that is permeable to select gases (i.e. gases necessary for metabolism) but impermeable to water and microbes. Other solutions entail an incubator with an impermeable membrane that has a specific mix of gases (air with 5% CO is typical) sealed inside.\n\nA multi-electrode array (MEA), also commonly called a microelectrode array, is a patterned array of electrodes laid out in a transparent substrate used for communication with neurons in contact with it. The communication can be, and usually is, bidirectional; researchers can both record electrophysiological data from a live network and stimulate it with a number of patterns.\n\nThis device has been an essential biosensor for more than thirty years. It has been used not only in the study of neuronal plasticity and information processing but also in drug and toxin effects on neurons. Additionally, when coupled with a sealed incubation chamber this device greatly reduces the risk of culture contamination by nearly eliminating the need to expose it to air.\n\nCurrently, commonly used MEAs have relatively poor spatial resolution. They employ approximately sixty electrodes for recording and stimulation in varying patterns in a dish with a typical culture of 50,000 cells or more (or a density of 5,000 cells/mm). It follows that each electrode in the array services a large cluster of neurons and cannot provide resolute information regarding signal origin and destination; such MEAs are only capable of region-specific data acquisition and stimulation.\nIdeally it would be possible to record and stimulate from a single or a few neurons at a time. Indeed, companies such as Axion Biosystems are working to provide MEAs with much higher spatial resolution to this end (a maximum of 768 input/output electrodes). Another study investigates establishing a stable one-to-one connection between neurons and electrodes. The goal was to meet the ideal interface situation by establishing a correspondence with every neuron in the network. They do so by caging individual neurons while still allowing the axons and dendrites to extend and make connections. Neurons are contained within \"neurocages\" or other sorts of containers, and the device itself could be referred to as the caged neuron MEA or neurochip.\n\nOther research suggests alternative techniques to stimulating neurons \"in vitro\". One study investigates the use of a laser beam to free caged compounds such as neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. A laser beam with wavelength in the UV spectrum would have extremely high spatial accuracy and, by releasing the caged compounds, could be used to influence a very select set of neurons.\n\nSpontaneous network bursts are a commonplace feature of neuronal networks both \"in vitro\" and \"in vivo\". \"In vitro\", this activity is particularly important in studies on learning and plasticity. Such experiments look intensely at the network-wide activity both before and after experiments in order to discern any changes that might implicate plasticity or even learning. However, confounding this experimental technique is the fact that normal neuronal development induces change in array-wide bursts that could easily skew data. \"In vivo\", however, it has been suggested that these network bursts may form the basis for memories.\n\nDepending on experimental perspective, network-wide bursts can be viewed either positively or negatively. In a pathological sense, spontaneous network activity can be attributed to the disembodiment of the neurons; one study saw a marked difference between array-wide firing frequency in cultures that received continuous input versus those that did not. To eliminate aberrant activity, researchers commonly use magnesium or synaptic blockers to quiet the network. However, this approach has great costs; quieted networks have little capacity for plasticity due to a diminished ability to create action potentials. A different and perhaps more effective approach is the use of low frequency stimulation that emulates sensory background activity.\n\nIn a different light, network bursts can be thought of as benign and even good. Any given network demonstrates non-random, structured bursts. Some studies have suggested that these bursts represent information carriers, expression of memory, a means for the network to form appropriate connections, and learning when their pattern changes.\n\nStegenga et al. set out to establish the stability of spontaneous network bursts as a function of time. They saw bursts throughout the lifetime of the cell cultures, beginning at 4–7 days \"in vitro\" (DIV) and continuing until culture death. They gathered network burst profiles (BPs) through a mathematical observation of array-wide spiking rate (AWSR), which is the summation of action potentials over all electrodes in an MEA. This analysis yielded the conclusion that, in their culture of Wistar rat neocortical cells, the AWSR has long rise and fall times during early development and sharper, more intense profiles after approximately 25 DIV. However, the use of BPs has an inherent shortcoming; BPs are an average of all network activity over time, and therefore only contain temporal information. In order to attain data about the spatial pattern of network activity they developed what they call phase profiles (PPs), which contain electrode specific data.\n\nData was gathered using these PPs on timescales of milliseconds up through days. Their goal was to establish the stability of network burst profiles on the timescale of minutes to hours and to establish stability or developmental changes over the course of days. In summary, they were successful in demonstrating stability over minutes to hours, but the PPs gathered over the course of days displayed significant variability. These finding imply that studies of plasticity of neurons can only be conducted over the course of minutes or hours without bias in network activity introduced by normal development.\n\nThere is much controversy in the field of neuroscience surrounding whether or not a cultured neuronal network can learn. A crucial step in finding the answer to this problem lies in establishing the difference between learning and plasticity. One definition suggests that learning is \"the acquisition of novel behavior through experience\". Corollary to this argument is the necessity for interaction with the environment around it, something that cultured neurons are virtually incapable of without sensory systems. Plasticity, on the other hand, is simply the reshaping of an existing network by changing connections between neurons: formation and elimination of synapses or extension and retraction of neurites and dendritic spines. But these two definitions are not mutually exclusive; in order for learning to take place, plasticity must also take place.\n\nIn order to establish learning in a cultured network, researchers have attempted to re-embody the dissociated neuronal networks in either simulated or real environments (see MEART and animat). Through this method the networks are able to interact with their environment and, therefore, have the opportunity to learn in a more realistic setting. Other studies have attempted to imprint signal patterns onto the networks via artificial stimulation. This can be done by inducing network bursts or by inputing specific patterns to the neurons, from which the network is expected to derive some meaning (as in experiments with animats, where an arbitrary signal to the network indicates that the simulated animal has run into a wall or is moving in a direction, etc.). The latter technique attempts to take advantage of the inherent ability of neuronal networks to make sense of patterns. However, experiments have had limited success in demonstrating a definition of learning that is widely agreed upon. Nevertheless, plasticity in neuronal networks is a phenomenon that is well-established in the neuroscience community, and one that is thought to play a very large role in learning.\n"}
{"id": "42991686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42991686", "title": "Dave Everett", "text": "Dave Everett\n\nDavid Francis Everett (1962–2013) was an Australian criminal, writer and former member of the Australian Special Air Service Regiment and Karen National Liberation Army. During his manhunt he was regarded as the most wanted man in the history of Australian criminals.\n\nDavid Everett was born in rural Tasmania in 1962 to a middle-class family and joined the Australian Army as an apprentice when he was aged 15.\n\nEverett began his career as a mechanic fixing supply trucks and joined the Special Air Service Regiment at 18 where he spent 3 and 1/2 years.\n\nHe claimed the selection course was the hardest thing he'd ever done in his life (including his prison sentence).\n\nHowever, because the Australian Army was not at war, he left for Burma and took great interest in the Karen People.\n\nAfter leaving the Army in 1986, Everett joined the Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA) in Myanmar (Burma) as a mercenary, arms dealer and gun for hire using the alias \"Steve\". He used his skills to teach the soldiers how to survive in combat most notably instructing them in marksmanship and the planting of claymore anti-personnel mines. He told a correspondent \"If I get sick of it I'll go and do a nine to five job\".\n\nDuring his time in Burma in 1986 he went as far as meeting with General Bo Mya. In an interview with the Australian TV series \"A Current Affair\" words failed him when he tried to describe the atrocities committed against the Karen minority, but these atrocities inspired his cause.\n\nIn 1987 he returned to Australia and married.\n\nWithin the four years leading up to his crimes, Everett worked as a security guard, private investigator and owner-driver in a trucking business. In 1990 his wife, Amanda, gave birth to his first son Nicholas who was named after a Karen soldier he had fought with.\n\nBy most accounts Everett was a devoted father and a hard-working husband. But during those years he also spoke fervently of his wish to move to the US and work for the FBI or the CIA.\n\nRealizing the funding of the Karen rebellion was too meagre, Everett took up pilot lessons so he could smuggle weapons back to Burma. To do this he needed money and turned to armed robbery involving former SASR comrade James Reynolds and another unknown accomplice who too was suspected by police to be ex-SASR.\n\nIn 1991 in Perth, Western Australia, all three - in a stunt that lasted several hours - raided the home of a theatre manager and his pregnant wife of 6 months taking the couple at gun-point in order to open the safe to gain access to the funds. They stole the money but were later caught. Everett, however, was released on bail whilst Reynolds committed suicide in prison, the third accomplice escaped capture and remained unidentified.\n\nAfterwards he traveled first to Cairns, and later to Magnetic Island off the North Queensland coast where he taught rappelling as part of a tour operation. Everett then fled when a chance police drug-raid took place.\n\nHe then returned to Western Australia and perpetrated two more robberies on two separate IGA shopping centres by surveying the owners, tracking them home and holding them hostage in two attempts to break into their safes, both of which were empty.\n\nFinally he went down to an explosives storage magazine in Baldivis, south of Perth, in order to get munitions for a gold robbery to pay for his mother's house that had been confiscated by the courts. In the process he set off one tonne of explosives in what is still the largest explosion in Australian criminal history having been audible from many miles away.\n\nEverett was caught in 1991 after being exposed to the police by an associate. While awaiting trial he faked his own abduction with a .22 automatic rifle he had buried in his backyard years earlier. He was recaptured 12 months later after a large police manhunt.\n\nWhilst in prison, Everett wrote his book and set his story straight in \"Shadow Warrior\". He used his time to complete a Bachelor of Arts degree, majoring in international relations and journalism and in 1999 he graduated with Honours in Strategic Studies.\n\nEverett was released in 2002 following 10 and 1/2 years in prison. He apparently maintained good relationships with his kids and married Australian Commonwealth government lawyer Darryl Wookey. He was diagnosed with suprabulbar palsy, the disease that killed his Father. He died aged 51 on 13 May 2013 after a year long battle with cancer.\n"}
{"id": "706633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706633", "title": "Dave Treen", "text": "Dave Treen\n\nDavid Conner Treen Sr. (July 16, 1928 – October 29, 2009), was an American attorney and politician from Mandeville, St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana. In 1979 he was elected as the first Republican Governor of the U.S. state of Louisiana since Reconstruction. It was a sign of changing party affiliations among white conservatives in the state, who have comprised a majority of the population since at least 1900. In 1972 Treen was the first Republican elected in modern times from this state to the U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nThe long absence of Republicans from state positions, from the turn of the century through much of the 1960s, was due to the party having been hollowed out by the Democrats passing a new constitution in 1898 that disenfranchised most African Americans in the state, who made up 47% of the population in 1900. But by 1900, two years after the new constitution, only 5,320 black voters were registered in the state, despite their advances in education and literacy. They had constituted the majority of Republican Party members in the 19th century after gaining the franchise as freedmen and citizens in the post-Civil War years.\n\nTreen served as governor from 1980–84. He lost his bid in 1983 for reelection to his popular long-time rival, Democrat Edwin Edwards, who was returning after two previous terms. Treen had earlier been elected to Congress in 1972, serving from 1973-80. Treen grew up as a Democrat, but joined the Republican Party in 1962. At the time, there were about 10,000 registered Republicans in the state; African Americans, who had previously made up most of the party members, were still mostly disenfranchised. By the time of Treen's death in 2009, only a few other living Louisiana Republicans had exceeded his length of tenure in the Republican Party.\n\nTreen was born in the state capital of Baton Rouge, to Elizabeth Treen (née Speir; 1899–1990) and Joseph Paul Treen, Sr. (1900–1986). He had two brothers, Joseph Paul Treen, Jr. and John Speir Treen.\n\nIn 1945, Treen graduated from the former Alcee Fortier High School, public school in New Orleans, where his classmates included the subsequent political consultant and journalist Victor Gold. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1948 in history and political science from Tulane University in New Orleans. While at Tulane, he was a brother of Kappa Sigma fraternity. In 1950, he graduated from Tulane Law School and was admitted to the bar. In 1951, Treen married Dolores \"Dodi\" Brisbi (November 23, 1929 – March 19, 2005), a graduate of Newcomb College in New Orleans. They met during college.\n\nTreen served in the U.S. Air Force from 1951 to 1952. After his discharge, Treen joined the law firm of Deutsch, Kerrigan & Stiles. He also served as a vice president of the Simplex Manufacturing Corporation of New Orleans from 1952–57.\n\nThe Treens had three children, Jennifer (born ca. 1952), David C., Jr. and Cynthia (born April 2, 1954). (Their children married, and the Treens had a total of nine grandchildren. Treen's eldest grandson, Jason Stewart Neville (born May 21, 1979), was one of the founding members of the Green Party of Louisiana; he ran unsuccessfully in 2003 for the Louisiana State Senate.\n\nIn the post-World War II era, African-American veterans and other leaders pushed to regain recognition of their constitutional rights as citizens, especially in the South, where they were disenfranchised, excluded from politics, and treated as second-class citizens. The civil rights movement gained increasing force through the 1960s. In 1954 the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" that segregation of public schools was unconstitutional. By 1960 African Americans made up a declining proportion of the state's population, as many thousands had left in the Great Migration. They constituted 32% of the population.\n\nIn 1960, Treen opposed the election of both Republican Richard Nixon and Democrat John F. Kennedy as president. He ran as an elector for the Louisiana States' Rights Party (known as the Dixiecrats), which supported Virginia Democratic U.S. Senator Harry F. Byrd, Sr. In addition to Treen, States' Rights electors from Louisiana included former State Senator William M. Rainach of Claiborne Parish (a defeated 1959 gubernatorial candidate) and Plaquemines Parish Judge Leander Perez. The Roman Catholic Church excommunicated Perez because of his outspoken opposition to racial integration. Another elector was the \"Radical Right\" figure Kent Courtney of New Orleans and later Alexandria. Former Congressman Jared Y. Sanders, Jr. of Baton Rouge, son of former Governor Jared Y. Sanders, Sr., was also a States Rights elector.\n\nTreen emphasized that his states' rights group was not affiliated with the National States' Rights Party, a group considered neo-Nazi, and which he said was \"a disgrace to the term 'states rights.'\" Treen's elector slate polled 169,572 ballots (21%) statewide. Jefferson Parish, Treen's residence, which would later support him in most of his campaigns, rejected the States' Righters. It supported the Democratic national candidate Kennedy with 51.8%. Nixon and Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. electors received 230,980 (28.6%) in Louisiana. Kennedy-Johnson won the state's ten electoral votes with 407,339 (50.4%). One of the Kennedy electors was popular State Attorney General Jack P.F. Gremillion. Another was Edmund Reggie of Crowley, Louisiana, a confidant of future Governor Edwin Edwards and future father-in-law of Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1962 Treen joined the Republican Party (GOP), which was still small in Louisiana after having suffered a dramatic decline with the exclusion of African Americans from politics since the late 19th century. He ran in 1962 for the U.S. House of Representatives from Louisiana's 2nd congressional district, based in New Orleans, against incumbent Democrat Hale Boggs (1914–1972) of New Orleans. Treen's father had urged him to challenge Boggs for renomination in the Democratic primary. As a young Democrat in 1956, Treen had supported then Republican congressional nominee George R. Blue against Boggs that year. Blue later switched to the Democrats and won election to the Louisiana House of Representatives in 1964. \n\nTreen raised $11,000 for his 1962 campaign and polled 27,791 votes (32.8 percent) to Boggs' 57,395 (67.2 percent). \n\nIn 1964, Treen again challenged Boggs. He improved on his earlier showing, helped by the popularity in Louisiana of the presidential candidacy of U.S. Senator Barry M. Goldwater. In addition many of his constituents were unhappy that Boggs had voted for the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which most Southern Democratic Congressmen had voted against. In the 1964 campaign, Treen polled 62,881 (45 percent) to Boggs' 77,009 (55%). In 1966, Treen did not run for Congress; the GOP fielded the attorney Leonard L. Limes of New Orleans, who was badly defeated by Boggs, in the year that the Voting Rights Act was passed by Congress, enabling some African Americans to register across the South. Treen ran again in 1968 in his third and final campaign against Boggs, who was then the House majority whip. Boggs became majority leader in 1971 and was in line for Speaker. California Governor Ronald Reagan came into the district to campaign for Treen. This time, Treen almost defeated Boggs, receiving 77,633 votes (48.8%) to Boggs' 81,537 ballots (51.2%).\n\nTreen attributed Boggs' victory in 1968 to the supporters of former Alabama Governor George C. Wallace, who ran for president on the American Independent Party ticket. Treen claimed that Wallace supporters \"became very cool to my candidacy. We couldn't really believe they would support Boggs, but several Democratic organizations did come out for Wallace and Boggs, and he received just enough Wallace votes to give him the election\". Treen did not contest the election.\n\nTreen was challenged in 1971 in the only Republican gubernatorial closed primary ever held in Louisiana. the state follows a practice of open primaries. His opponent was Robert Max Ross (August 5, 1933 – September 15, 2009), a native of Baskin in Franklin Parish, who grew up in Mangham in Richland Parish in north Louisiana. Ross had a Bachelor of Science degree in agriculture from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. Ross was a businessman in Mangham, including a mobile home park. In the 1971 primary, Treen gained the support of the party leadership, including chairman Charles deGravelles of Lafayette. In a campaign tour in Minden, in which he visited with Republican Mayor Tom Colten, Treen said that Louisiana needed \"true competition\" in state government, or \"a system in which two political parties operate on a continuing and permanent basis to examine and criticize each other's policies and programs.\" If elected, Treen said that he would be \"as independent as possible\" in the governorship.\n\nTreen received 9,732 votes (92 percent) to Ross's 839 (8 percent). Ross challenged Treen again for governor in 1983 and ran far behind in races for the United States Senate in 1984 and 1986. \n\nFor the general election against Edwards held on February 1, 1972, Treen campaigned vigorously with billboards which said, \"Make a Real Change\", and television spots, but he lost. His chances seemed to improve when the American Party nominee, Hall Lyons of Lafayette, a son of GOP pioneer Charlton Lyons of Shreveport, withdrew after Edwards predicted victory based on the premise that Lyons and Treen would split the more conservative vote. Lyons said that his decision to leave the race was intended to allow conservatives to unite behind Treen.\n\nTreen also shared the Republican ticket with other candidates. Morley A. Hudson and Tom Stagg, both of Shreveport, ran for lieutenant governor and attorney general, respectively, against Jimmy Fitzmorris and William J. Guste. Edwards scoffed at his challenger: \nIf Treen had been a registered Democrat in the November 6 Democratic primary, he'd have gotten lost in the shuffle. Yet, while his only claim of any kind of legitimacy is that he's a Republican, he deliberately avoids use of the word 'Republican' on any of his campaign paraphernalia. He's apparently ashamed of the fact that he's a Republican.\n\nTreen polled 480,424 ballots (42.8%) to Edwards's 641,146 (57.2%) Treen carried twenty-seven parishes, mostly in the northern part of the state, with margins exceeding 60 percent in ten of those parishes. His tally was some 5 percentage points higher than what Charlton Lyons had scored in 1964 against John McKeithen.\n\nEdwards proclaimed that his administration would be an \"Era of Excellence\". \"The Shreveport Times\" and its sister publication, the former \"Monroe Morning World\" (now \"Monroe News-Star\"), analyzed the gubernatorial returns and concluded that Edwards received 202,055 black votes to only 10,709 for Treen. As Edwards' statewide margin was 160,000, the survey concluded that African Americans made the difference. They had only been able to vote in number since passage of the Voting Rights Act in 1965. The newspapers said that Treen received some 30,000 more votes from whites than did Edwards. Another source said that Treen, who was named Republican national committeeman after his gubernatorial race, received the backing of 55 percent of white voters but 2 percent among African Americans. While African Americans in the 19th and early 20th century had been part of the Republican Party, following the civil rights era, they joined the Democratic Party, which had supported their struggle to regain their constitutional rights.\n\nNumerous Republican legislative candidates ran on the Treen ticket, but most of those outside Shreveport, Baton Rouge, and Jefferson Parish were defeated. Treen loyalist Bob Reese, for instance, failed in a state senate race from Natchitoches Parish against the Democrat Paul L. Foshee.\n\nAfter a decade of service on the Republican State Central Committee, Treen was named as the Louisiana Republican national committeeman for a two-year stint that began in 1972. He succeeded his former ticket mate, Tom Stagg, who later was appointed as a U.S. District judge in Shreveport.\n\nTreen's friend James H. Boyce, a Baton Rouge businessman, served as state party chairman while Treen was national committeeman. Over the years, Treen benefited from other party officials who worked on his behalf, such as National Committeeman Frank Spooner of Monroe, who lost the 1976 race in Louisiana's 5th congressional district to Democrat Jerry Huckaby, and National Committeewoman Virginia Martinez of New Orleans, the treasurer of the national party conventions in 1980 and 1984.\n\nIn 1972, based in part on the strength of his gubernatorial race, Treen ran for the open Louisiana's 3rd congressional district seat vacated by conservative Democrat Patrick T. Caffery of New Iberia. He was a surprise winner, helped in part by the popularity of the Republican Nixon-Agnew ticket, which carried sixty-three of the sixty-four parishes (the exception, West Feliciana Parish) in what had traditionally been Democratic Louisiana. Treen defeated Democrat J. Louis Watkins, Jr., of Houma, 71,090 (54 percent) to 60,521 (46 percent). Treen's home parish of Jefferson helped to push him over the top, supporting him with 73 percent share of the vote. Treen was elected as the first Republican to represent Louisiana in Congress since Hamilton D. Coleman left office from the Second District in 1891.\n\nTreen served in the congressional seat from 1973 until 1980, being re-elected twice. He resigned when he was elected as governor. As a congressman, he voted right-of-center and usually in accord with his party. He was considered a team player among House Republicans. In 1974, Treen won a comfortable reelection in a year when Democrats won the presidency. He defeated State Representative Charles Grisbaum, Jr., of Jefferson Parish, who became a close friend. Grisbaum later switched parties. After Treen became governor in 1980, Grisbaum served as one of Treen's floor leaders in the Louisiana House.\n\nIn 1975, Treen was joined by his first Louisiana Republican colleague in the U.S. House when Henson Moore won Louisiana's 6th congressional district seat based in and about Baton Rouge and the Florida Parishes. Moore won the seat formerly held by the Democrat John Rarick. In 1976, Treen polled 73.3 percent in a race against a nominal Democratic opponent, in a year when Jimmy Carter, Democrat from Georgia, carried Louisiana over Gerald R. Ford (R).\n\nIn 1979, Treen hired Gus Weill for his campaign for the governorship; Weill was a Democrat who in 1958 had established the first political public relations firm in Baton Rouge and who served as John McKeithen's former campaign manager. Campaigning for Treen was U.S. Senator John Tower of Texas; at the Shreveport Convention Center he said, \"We are not here as Republicans. We are not here as Democrats. We are here as citizens who have aspirations for our country.\" Tower said that his backing for Treen was based on the candidate's \"character, enormous ability, his sense of what is right, and his complete dedication to the sovereign state.\"\n\nTreen reached out to African Americans, but most voted for Democratic candidates. Alexandria attorney P. Spencer Torry (born 1930), an African-American female Republican, described Treen as \"an honest man who keeps his word. He's promised to improve education, job training, and provide more opportunities for the minorities. I've talked to Dave Treen, and I believe him.\"\n\nIn 1979, Treen ran in the nonpartisan blanket primary (jungle primary) for governor, the second such election held in Louisiana. He finished with 297,469 votes, nearly the same results as posted by Charlton Lyons in the 1964 general election, 284 fewer votes than Lyons had in a two-candidate field. The second spot was hotly contested between Louisiana Public Service Commissioner Louis Lambert of Ascension parish (282,708 votes) and outgoing Lieutenant Governor Jimmy Fitzmorris, of New Orleans (280,412 votes). Fitzmorris unsuccessfully sued in an attempt to force Lambert from the number-two position so Fitzmorris could face Treen in the general election.\n\nIn the Treen-Lambert general election, the defeated Democratic candidates, including the disappointed Fitzmorris, House Speaker E. L. Henry of Jonesboro, Secretary of State Paul Hardy of St. Martinville and State Senator Edgar G. \"Sonny\" Mouton, Jr., of Lafayette, all endorsed Treen. Their support helped him to defeat Lambert by 9,557 votes. Treen received 690,691 (50.3%) to Lambert's 681,134 (49.7%). He won 22 parishes in victory, compared to 27 parishes in defeat in 1972. Only ten parishes that had voted for Treen in 1972 stuck with him in 1979. His strongest parishes in victory were all in south Louisiana: Plaquemines, Lafayette, St. Tammany, and Iberia.\n\nIn the losing 1972 campaign, Treen had gained most of his support from north Louisiana. The election of 1979 seemed to indicate that Lafayette would in time replace Shreveport as the new growth center of the Louisiana GOP. Treen's victory came from Republican inroads made in the Edwards stronghold of Acadiana, particularly Lafayette, Iberia, Terrebonne, Acadia, and St. Martin parishes. The GOP nominee overcame large deficits from 1972 to win in 1979. Treen received 3.1% of the black vote, nearly identical to his black support in 1972. \n\nOn March 10, 1980, Treen, aged 51, became the 51st governor of his state. His oath of office was administered by 19th Judicial Court Judge Douglas Gonzales, a Republican from Baton Rouge. Gonzales gave Treen a Bible inscribed, \"Dave, Upon this good book, you took your oath of office. Please keep it close so it can serve as a constant reminder of your solemn commitment to the people of this great state ...\"\n\nTreen named the Alexandria businessman and philanthropist Roy O. Martin, Jr., to the Louisiana Board of Commerce and Industry. He named John Henry Baker to the Louisiana Athletic Commission, since renamed the Louisiana State Boxing and Wrestling Commission. Martin and Baker were both delegates to the 1980 Republican National Convention in Detroit, Michigan. He named the Louisiana Tech University English professor Robert C. Snyder to the Louisiana State Ethics Commission, a position that Snyder held for twenty-six years, including a stint as chairman.\n\nIn the spring of 1980 special election for the House seat vacated by Treen, Democrat State Representative Billy Tauzin of Thibodaux defeated fellow Democrat, State Senator Anthony Guarisco, Jr., of Morgan City, and the Democrat-turned-Republican Jim Donelon of Metairie, who had just lost a Democratic race for lieutenant governor.\n\nTreen reappointed Shreveport attorney Robert G. Pugh to the Louisiana Board of Regents created by the Constitution of 1974. Pugh advised Treen on numerous issues. He developed a plan to preserve coastal wetlands through a tax on energy, but the legislature failed to approve it. Treen appointed Robert DeBlieux, the outgoing Democratic mayor of Natchitoches, as the state's chief preservation officer. DeBleiux had been instrumental in obtaining designation of the Natchitoches Historic District in the middle 1970s. When Treen assumed office, some 10 of the 105 members of the Louisiana House of Representatives were Republican; all 39 state senators were Democrats.\n\nThe Treen administration is known for the establishment of the Louisiana School for Math, Science, and the Arts, a statewide high school for gifted children located on the campus of Northwestern State University in Natchitoches. Treen established the Department of Environmental Quality. He accused \"political special interests\" loyal to Edwin Edwards with undermining his effort.\n\nDuring his single term, Treen appointed more African Americans to state offices than had any other previous governor in history. He took great pride in this achievement as his best. Two Treen campaign confidants, John H. Cade, Jr., of Alexandria and William \"Billy\" Nungesser of New Orleans, worked as unpaid advisers in the administration. Cade had managed Treen's successful congressional races in 1972, 1974, 1976, and 1978. He directed the successful 1979 gubernatorial race. Cade was the Republican state chairman from 1976 to 1978, and Nungesser chaired the GOP central committee from 1988 to 1992.\n\nTreen named Lockport shipbuilder, Donald G. Bollinger as the secretary of the Louisiana Department of Public Safety & Corrections. Bollinger also served for two years as the state Republican chairman prior to Nungesser. After taking office, Treen elevated Ansel M. Stroud, Jr., from assistant adjutant general to adjutant general of the Louisiana National Guard, a position which Stroud continued to hold until 1997.\n\nTreen appointed to office all of the Democratic gubernatorial candidates who endorsed him. Fitzmorris became Executive Assistant for Economic Development. Edgar Mouton was named executive counsel to Treen, but he later abandoned the administration and endorsed the return of Edwin Edwards to the governorship in 1983. Speaker E.L. Henry became the powerful Commissioner of Administration. Treen named Paul Hardy as secretary of the Department of Transportation and Development, with the former Republican mayor of Minden, Tom Colten, as his assistant. Edwards loyalist George Fischer was named secretary of the Department of Health and Human Resources, one of the largest departments in state government. Many of the Democrat legislators are believed to have remained loyal to Edwards, who operated a \"shadow government\" from the sidelines. Edwards said on leaving office in 1980 that he was on \"a brief, mandated hiatus and would be back\" in 1983.\n\nTreen obtained legislative passage of his \"Professional Improvement Program\" (or PIPs) to provide bonuses of $2,000 each to participating public school teachers. The initial $67 million appropriation for the program was increased to $90 million. PIPs allowed instructors to obtain supplemental pay for taking college-level courses and/or attending intensive workshops in order to improve teaching performance. Problems developed when numerous teachers signed up for classes with limited academic requirements and shunned the more rigorous courses. Such actions by the educators undermined the purpose of Treen's reform. Edwards dismantled the program when he returned to office in 1984.\n\nTreen signed into law a measure requiring \"balanced\" treatment in public school instruction regarding evolution and creation science, authored by Senator Bill Keith of Caddo Parish. The measure was struck down in 1987, after Treen had left office, by the United States Supreme Court in the case \"Edwards v. Aguillard,\" as creation science is not science but religious teaching.\n\nTreen worked with the Lafayette delegation, including Representatives Mike Thompson and Ron Gomez, for construction of the University of Louisiana at Lafayette Ragin' Cajuns stadium, the Cajundome. Construction began in 1982 and was completed and dedicated late in 1985, by which time Edwards had returned to the office.\n\nGovernor Treen developed a reputation for indecision and micromanagement of details. His failure to push for strong conservative policies and governmental reforms disappointed many Republican allies, as did his refusal to oust from his administration allies of Edwin Edwards. Treen presided over resumption of use of capital punishment in Louisiana. Two convicts were executed by the electric chair in December 1983 after he was defeated for re-election earlier that year. He established in 1981 the Litter Control and Recycling Commission, as a measure to improve quality of life in cities and other areas. Violators faced potential fines of $100 to $500 and/or several days of litter collection from along state highways.\n\nIn 1982, Treen proposed a $450 million tax on petroleum and natural gas, to support preservation of coastal wetlands, as more was being understood about their critical role in protecting the coast. It was known as the Coastal Wetlands Environmental Levy, but the measure ran into strong opposition from conservatives and the trade association, the Louisiana Association of Business and Industry (LABI). Treen defended CWEL on the premise that it would place no undue burden on any individual or group and would increase the state coffers at a much higher yield than would a boost in the state income tax. LABI director Edward J. Steimel announced immediate opposition to CWEL. CWEL was defeated in the Louisiana House although it received approval from a majority of lawmakers; it fell twelve votes short of the required two-thirds needed. Among the opponents were conservative legislators Woody Jenkins of Baton Rouge and B.F. O'Neal, Jr., of Shreveport.\n\nAfter the defeat of CWEL, Treen ordered a 3 percent reduction in state employment, with the goal of saving $12 million, far less than the environmental tax would have generated. In 1986, out of office, Treen noted that state finances had declined by $450 million, an amount which he had projected CWEL would have brought into the state treasury.\n\nIn December 1982, Treen said that he had abandoned his call for new taxes and would attempt to cut $150 million from the state budget to provide seniority raises for state employees. House Speaker John Hainkel, meanwhile, proposed $40 million in higher taxes, including higher tuition and fees at vocational schools and repeal of a $5 million tax exemption provided to Blue Cross Blue Shield in Louisiana.\n\nIn August 1982, Treen vetoed twenty-four bills passed by the legislature on the premise that most would have added expense to the already strained state budget. One of the bills would have exempted Butane and propane gas dealers from sales taxes.\n\nTreen worked to reform the state worker's compensation program, long known for its high insurance rates on business. When a 1982 reform plan failed, Treen blamed LABI because the trade association would not compromise with the Democrats to secure a bill that could pass the legislature. LABI director Ed Steimel declared the worker's compensation problem at the time to be the major roadblock to bringing new and expanded industries into the state.\n\nEarly in 1983, a revised worker's compensation bill was passed, and money was earmarked to make the unemployment compensation fund solvent. No action was taken on a policy involving hiring out convict labor. \"A majority of the Senate thought we had asked for enough. There was a lack of enthusiasm once again against a position taken by Victor Bussie, the president of the state AFL-CIO.\n\nTreen had difficulty working with the lieutenant governor, Democrat Bobby Freeman, a former state representative from Plaquemine in Iberville Parish south of Baton Rouge. Considered a liberal by Louisiana standards, Freeman vowed to exercise gubernatorial powers, as permitted under the state constitution, whenever Treen left the state, either on business or pleasure trips. This recurring threat made it hard for Treen to make out-of-state appearances.\n\nFreeman quarreled with Treen over the 1983-1984 operating budget for the lieutenant governor's office. Treen recommended $411,907, an amount considerably lower than Freeman had requested; the latter said he would have to lay off six of his fifteen employees. Freeman threatened to take Treen to court if he vetoed the larger amount: \"I'm certainly not going to continue cooperating with a man who threatens me and my employees.\"\n\nTreen continued to maintain that Freeman had \"padded\" his salary expenses by the $133,000 difference between the two budget figures. As he had threatened, Freeman filed suit against the governor. Freeman worked for the return of Edwin Edwards to the governorship. Freeman won re-election in 1983 by defeating Edwards' first lieutenant governor, fellow Democrat Fitzmorris. Treen suffered a stinging defeat by Edwards.\n\nTreen and Edwards were known as fierce rivals. Treen began his campaign for a second term in December 1982, with John Cade leading the group, 'People for Dave Treen.' At first, Cade emerged as the governor's campaign spokesman so that he could concentrate on his job duties. Cade questioned Edwards' decision to forgo his gubernatorial retirement income of $40,000 per year on the grounds that Edwards was no longer \"retired\" because he was running to reclaim the governorship. Cade said that Edwards would have collected only $14,000 in pension and not before the age of sixty had he not engineered legislative approval of the more lucrative package.\n\nAt a fundraiser in Thibodaux to celebrate his 55th birthday, Treen said that Edwards in 1980 \"left a pile of unpaid bills and a stinking surplus of hazardous waste dumps.\" As of June 30, 1983, Edwards raised far more campaign cash than Treen, $5.4 million to $2.1 million. On October 9, the comedian Bob Hope headlined a Treen fundraiser at $1,000 per ticket held in the Downtown Sheraton Hotel in New Orleans. Treen picked up the support of former U.S. Representative James Domengeaux, a Democrat from Lafayette and director of the Council for the Development of French in Louisiana.\n\nU.S. Representative Gillis William Long of Alexandria endorsed Edwards. Of Treen, Long, said: \"I dealt with him for seven year [in the House], and I think he has a hard time working with people and coming up with compromise solutions.\" Long incorrectly predicted that the Treen-Edwards showdown would be \"a close race.\" Long said that the state political arena had changed from 1971, when he ran for governor, to the 1983 contest, from \"the politics of personality to the politics of demographics.\"\n\nTreen challenged Edwards regarding the issuance of pardons and paroles. Whereas Treen had signed 34 pardons in three and a half years in the office, Edwards had approved 1,526 pardons or commutations of sentences in his first two terms. One of those pardoned in 1980 was a man who became a client of and murdered Edwards' brother, Nolan Edwards, an attorney in Crowley.\n\nEdwards handily unseated Treen to secure the third of his four terms as governor. Treen won a handful of parishes, including rural La Salle Parish in north Louisiana, which supported him in all three of his gubernatorial bids. Treen received 586,643 (36.3 percent) to Edwards' 1,008,282 (62.4 percent). Another 1.3 percent was cast for minor candidates, one of whom was Robert M. Ross, Treen's Republican primary rival in 1971.\n\nAfter Treen's defeat for governor, President Reagan nominated him on July 22, 1987 for a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans created by the death of veteran Judge Albert Tate, Jr. However, the appointment was delayed by Democratic senators on the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee who objected to Treen's past membership in the States' Rights Party and other allegations. Treen withdrew his name from consideration in late April 1988, saying that he \"could not afford to defer my professional and business activities\" any longer, and that \"some persons on the Democrat-controlled committee would just as soon see the vacancy go unfilled until after the election...in the hope that a Democrat will succeed to the White House.\"\n\nThe Senate wound up confirming Reagan's second choice, attorney John Malcolm Duhé, Jr., a New Iberia, later Lafayette, lawyer, who was the son-in-law of New Orleans Congressman F. Edward Hebert and former law partner of retired 3rd District Congressman Patrick T. Caffery. Another of Congressman Caffery's former law partners, Eugene Davis, was named to the federal bench in 1976 by President Gerald Ford and now sits on the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans, where Duhé had served.\n\nNonetheless, Treen maintained political ambitions even after his landslide defeat for re-election as governor. In 1984, he filed candidacy papers to oppose U.S. Senator Bennett Johnston, but quickly withdrew from the race, apparently when polls showed the popular Johnston unbeatable even in a potentially national Republican year. Treen considered, but decided against making, gubernatorial bids in 1991, 1995, and 2003.\n\nIn 1991, despite their differences, Treen endorsed Edwards' bid for a fourth term because the Republican candidate who survived the nonpartisan blanket primary was State Representative David Duke, a former member of the Ku Klux Klan and by then a perennial candidate who was troublesome to the GOP and the business community. Though Duke claimed to have ended his ties to the KKK, there was lingering suspicion that he was still in contact with neo-Nazi, anti-Semitic, and other radical elements. Treen denounced Duke's candidacy: \"I think he is bad for our party because of his espousal of Nazism and racial superiority.\"\n\nIronically, Duke won his single victory for public office, a seat in the state House, by narrowly defeating Treen's brother, John S. Treen, a home builder in Jefferson Parish. Many Republicans blamed John Treen's lackluster campaign in that race for Duke's emergence as a major player in the 1990 U.S. Senate race, when he made a noticeable bid against incumbent Johnston, and in the 1991 gubernatorial election, when Duke secured a general election berth. A new interest group, the Louisiana Coalition against Racism and Nazism, appeared to fight the Duke gubernatorial candidacy. Among its leaders was the Republican political activist and longtime Treen supporter, Beth Rickey of New Orleans and the journalist Quin Hillyer.\n\nIn 1999, Treen attempted a political comeback by running for the U.S. House. By this time, his home in Mandeville had been drawn into the 1st District. That seat was being vacated by Representative Bob Livingston, who left Congress in a sex scandal amid the House vote on the impeachment of President Bill Clinton. This was the eighth election that Treen's name appeared on a Louisiana ballot for Congress.\n\nIn the special election with David Duke, also trying to score a comeback, and Republican State Representative David Vitter, Treen finished first with 36,719 votes (25%) to Vitter's 31,741 (22%) and Duke's 28,055 (19%). (Six other candidates, including New Orleans businessman Rob Couhig, shared the remaining 33% of the votes cast.) In the low-turnout special election runoff, Vitter defeated Treen, 61,661 ballots (51%) to 59,849 (49%), a margin of 1,812 votes. The race against Vitter was a bitter contest, with attacks flying back and forth. Many of Vitter's colleagues in the state legislature supported Treen and charged that Vitter was difficult to work with as a legislator. Duke, hoping to damage Treen's chances, endorsed the former Governor, and Vitter won the seat. In 2005, Vitter left the House to become the first Republican to be elected to the U.S. Senate from Louisiana since Reconstruction.\n\nTreen declared that he would run for governor again in the 2003 election, at the age of 75, but the party leadership coalesced behind Bobby Jindal. Treen withdrew from the pre-primary race and worked for Jindal's election. Jindal lost the general election to Democratic Lieutenant Governor Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Lafayette (who actually lost Lafayette Parish in the election). A year later, Jindal filled the House seat that Vitter vacated to become senator, the same seat that Treen had lost in his last campaign for elective office. Treen even discussed running for governor again in 2007 but never filed candidacy papers.\n\nIn 2007, Jindal won the governor's election outright in the primary. Treen's old rival and reluctant ally, Edwin Edwards, meanwhile, went to prison for racketeering connected with his fourth gubernatorial term, the one that Treen had reluctantly blessed in preference to his greater nemesis, David Duke. Treen had urged then President George W. Bush to pardon Edwards or to commute his sentence to the time already served.\n\nThere was also speculation that Edwards actually voted for Treen in the 1979 election because he preferred to face Treen again in 1983, rather than the other Democratic possibilities who were running for governor against Treen. Earl Long similarly often quietly voted for the \"anti-Long\" gubernatorial candidate himself to set up a potential new governor for failure. Long would then run for governor again four years later against the \"failed\" (in Long's eyes) governor's stand-in. That was before Louisiana governors could succeed themselves in office. In 1997, Treen became the first Republican inducted into the Louisiana Political Museum and Hall of Fame in Winnfield, Louisiana.\n\nTreen announced on October 23, 2007, that he would be a candidate in the March 8 special election to succeed Bobby Jindal, who was elected governor. He cited his experience and political ties in Washington, D.C. as reasons for his candidacy.\n\nTreen had lost a race for this same seat in a 1999 special election to eventual U.S. Senator David Vitter. Four Republicans filed for the seat, and two faced an April 5 runoff election restricted to registered party members: State Representative Timothy G. Burns and State Senator Steve Scalise. Scalise won the runoff and a month later defeated Democrat Gilda Reed, a favorite of organized labor and the party's constituent groups. Treen withdrew from consideration on January 28. Treen endorsed the reelection of Democratic U.S. Senator Mary Landrieu in her 2008 race against Republican state Treasurer John Neely Kennedy, who resided in Mandeville, where Treen lived at the time.\n\nTreen died from complications from a respiratory illness at East Jefferson General Hospital in Metairie. Condolences and kinds words poured in from around the state, typified by Southeastern Louisiana University president John L. Crain's tribute that Treen \"was a true Louisiana icon, a Republican governor in Louisiana before it was cool\". His body lay in state at the Louisiana State Capitol following a memorial service on November 2, 2009. A second memorial service was held at St. Timothy United Methodist Church in Mandeville on November 3. The family requested memorials to, among several charities, the Methodist Children's Home in Mandeville.\n\nRepublican State Chairman Roger F. Villere, Jr., of Metairie called the former governor \"a courageous man who loved our country and our state. He fought the political establishment in the 1960s and 1970s when it was very difficult to elect a Republican in our state, and his career in political office was marked with integrity and fiscal discipline. It is important for younger voters to understand that Louisiana's commitment to high ethical standards and the existence of a viable two-party system in our state are relatively new developments. Just a quarter century ago, neither existed in a significant way. Dave Treen laid the foundation to change all that, and for that, millions of Louisiana citizens owe him a profound debt of gratitude.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26678256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26678256", "title": "Death of Cleopatra", "text": "Death of Cleopatra\n\nThe death of Cleopatra VII, the last reigning ruler of Ptolemaic Egypt, occurred on either 10 or 12 August 30 BC in Alexandria, when she was 39 years old. According to a popular belief, Cleopatra committed suicide by allowing an asp (Egyptian cobra) to bite her. According to Greek and Roman historians, Cleopatra poisoned herself using either a toxic ointment or sharp implement such as a hairpin. Primary source accounts are derived mainly from the works of the ancient Roman historians Strabo, Plutarch, and Cassius Dio. Modern scholars debate the validity of ancient reports involving snakebites as the cause of death and even if she was murdered or not. Some academics hypothesize that her Roman political rival Octavian forced her to commit suicide in the manner of her choosing. The location of Cleopatra's tomb is unknown, although it was recorded that Octavian allowed for her and husband Mark Antony, who stabbed himself with a sword, to be buried together properly.\n\nCleopatra's death effectively ended the final war of the Roman Republic between triumvirs Octavian and Antony, in which Cleopatra aligned herself with Antony, father to three of her children. Antony and Cleopatra fled to Egypt following their loss at the 31 BC Battle of Actium in Roman Greece, after which Octavian invaded Egypt and defeated their forces. Her suicide allowed her to avoid the humiliation of being paraded as a prisoner in a Roman triumph celebrating the military victories of Octavian, who would become Rome's first emperor in 27 BC and known as Augustus. Octavian had her son Caesarion (also known as Ptolemy XV), rival heir of Julius Caesar, killed in Egypt but spared her children with Antony and brought them to Rome. Cleopatra's death marked the end of the Hellenistic period and Ptolemaic rule of Egypt, as well as the beginning of Roman Egypt, which became a province of the Roman Empire. \n\nThe death of Cleopatra has been depicted in various works of art in ancient, medieval, early modern, and modern times. These include the visual, literary, and performance arts, ranging from sculptures and paintings to poetry and plays, as well as modern films. Cleopatra featured prominently in the prose and poetry of ancient Latin literature. While surviving ancient Roman depictions of her death in visual arts are rare, Medieval, Renaissance, Baroque, and Modern works are numerous. Ancient Greco-Roman sculptures such as the \"Esquiline Venus\" and \"Sleeping Ariadne\" served as inspirations for later artworks portraying her death, universally involving the snakebite of an asp. Cleopatra's death has also involved themes of eroticism and sexuality, in works that include paintings, plays, and films, especially from the Victorian era. Modern works depicting Cleopatra's death include Neoclassical sculpture, Orientalist painting, and cinema.\n\nFollowing the First Triumvirate and assassination of Julius Caesar in 44 BC, the Roman statesmen Octavian, Mark Antony, and Aemilius Lepidus were elected as triumvirs to bring Caesar's assassins to justice, forming the Second Triumvirate. With Lepidus marginalized in Africa and eventually placed under house arrest by Octavian, the two remaining triumvirs divided control over the Roman world between the Greek East and Latin West, with Antony taking the former and Octavian the latter. Cleopatra VII of Ptolemaic Egypt, a pharaoh of Macedonian Greek descent, ruling from Alexandria, had an extramarital affair with Julius Caesar that produced a son and eventual Ptolemaic co-ruler Caesarion. After Caesar's death she developed a relationship with Antony. \n\nWith encouragement from Cleopatra, Antony officially divorced Octavian's sister Octavia Minor in 32 BC. However, it is likely he had already married Cleopatra during the Donations of Alexandria in 34 BC. Antony's divorce from Octavia, Octavian's public revelation of Antony's will outlining Cleopatra's ambitions for Roman territory in the Donations of Alexandria and her continued illegal military support for a Roman citizen currently without an elected office convinced the Roman Senate, now under Octavian's control, to declare war on Cleopatra.\n\nFollowing their defeat in the naval Battle of Actium at the Ambracian Gulf of Greece in 31 BC, Cleopatra and Antony retreated back to Egypt to recuperate and prepare for an assault by Octavian, whose forces grew larger with the surrender of many of Antony's officers and soldiers in Greece. After a long period of failed negotiations, Octavian's forces invaded Egypt in the spring of 30 BC. While Octavian captured Pelousion near the eastern borders of Ptolemaic Egypt, his officer Cornelius Gallus marched from Cyrene and captured Paraitonion to the west. Although Antony was able to score a small victory over Octavian's tired troops as they approached Alexandria's hippodrome on 1 August 30 BC, Antony's naval fleet and cavalry defected to Octavian soon afterwards.\n\nWith Octavian's forces in Alexandria, Cleopatra withdrew to her tomb with her closest attendants and had a message sent to Antony that she had committed suicide. Antony ordered his slave Eros to murder him, but instead Eros turned his sword on himself and committed suicide. In despair, Antony stabbed himself through the stomach with a sword, dying at age 53. In Plutarch's telling, Antony was still alive as he was carried into the tomb of Cleopatra, telling her in his dying words that he would die honorably and that she could trust a certain on Octavian's side to treat her well. The same Proculeius used a ladder to breach a window of Cleopatra's tomb and detain her inside before she could have a chance to commit suicide or burn herself to death along with her vast treasure. Cleopatra was allowed to embalm Antony's body before she was forcefully escorted to the palace and eventually met with Octavian, who had also detained three of her children: Alexander Helios, Cleopatra Selene II, and Ptolemy Philadelphus.\n\nAs related by Livy, in her meeting with Octavian, Cleopatra told him candidly, \"I will not be led in a triumph\" (), but Octavian only gave the cryptic answer that her life would be spared. He did not offer her any specific details about his plans for Egypt or her royal family. When a spy informed Cleopatra that Octavian intended to bring her back to Rome to be paraded as a prisoner in his Roman triumph, she decided to avoid this humiliation and take her own life at age 39, in August 30 BC. Plutarch elaborates how Cleopatra approached her suicide in an almost ritual process, preceded by bathing and then a fine meal including figs brought to her in a basket.\n\nPlutarch writes that Octavian ordered his freedman Epaphroditus to guard her and prevent her from committing suicide. However, Cleopatra was able to deceive him and kill herself nevertheless. When Octavian received a note from Cleopatra requesting that she be buried next to Antony, he had his messengers rush to her. On arrival, in haste, the servant broke down her door but was too late. Plutarch states that when she was found, her handmaiden Iras dying at her feet, and handmaiden Charmion adjusting Cleopatra's diademed crown before she herself fell. It is unclear from primary sources if their suicides took place within the palace or inside Cleopatra's tomb. Cassius Dio claims that Octavian called on trained snake charmers of the Psylli tribe of Ancient Libya to attempt an oral venom extraction and revival of Cleopatra, but their efforts failed. Although Octavian was outraged by these events and \"was robbed of the full splendor of his victory\" according to Cassius Dio, he had Cleopatra interred next to Antony in their tomb as requested, and also gave Iras and Charmion proper burials.\n\nThere is no surviving records dating Cleopatra's death. Theodore Cressy Skeat deduced that she died on 12 August 30 BC on the basis of contemporary records of fixed events along with cross examination of historical sources. His supposition is supported by Stanley M. Burstein, James Grout, and Aidan Dodson and Dyan Hitlon, although the latter are more cautious by qualifying it was \"circa\" 12 August. An alternative date of 10 August 30 BC is supported by scholars such as Duane W. Roller, Joann Fletcher, and Jaynie Anderson.\n\nCleopatra's personal physician Olympos, cited by Plutarch, did not mention either a cause of death and or an asp bite or Egyptian cobra. Strabo, who provides the earliest known historical account, believed that Cleopatra committed suicide either by asp bite or poisonous ointment. Plutarch mentions the tale of the asp brought to her in a basket of figs, although he offers other alternatives for her cause of death, such as use of a hollow implement (), perhaps a hairpin, which she used to scratch open the skin and introduce the toxin. According to Cassius Dio small puncture wounds were found on Cleopatra's arm, but he echoed the claim by Plutarch that nobody knew the true cause of her death. Dio mentioned the claim of the asp and even suggested use of a needle (), possibly from a hairpin, which would seem to corroborate with Plutarch's account. Other historians such as Florus and Velleius Paterculus supported the asp bite version. Roman physician Galen mentioned the asp story, but he also narrated a version where Cleopatra bit her arm and introduced venom there brought to her in a container. Suetonius relayed the story of the asp but expressed doubt about it.\n\nModern scholars have also cast doubt on the story of the venomous snakebite as the cause of death. Duane W. Roller notes the prominence of snakes in Egyptian mythology while also asserting that no surviving historical account discusses the difficulty of smuggling a large Egyptian cobra into Cleopatra's chambers and then having it behave as intended. William Maloney concurs with this assessment, noting the incredible weight of these reptiles, but states that their venom is very powerful, whereas Roller claims the venom is only fatal if injected into a vital area of the body. The German Egyptologist Wilhelm Spiegelberg (1870–1930) argued that Cleopatra's choice of suicide by asp bite was one that befitted her royal status, with the asp representing the \"uraeus\", sacred serpent of the ancient Egyptian sun god Ra. However, Robert A. Gurval points out that the Athenian \"strategos\" Demetrios of Phaleron (c. 350 – c. 280 BC), confined by Ptolemy II Philadelphus in Egypt, committed suicide by asp bite in a \"curiously similar\" manner, one that also demonstrated that it was not exclusive to Egyptian royalty. Gurval notes that the bite of an Egyptian cobra contains around 175–300 mg of neurotoxin, lethal to humans with only 15–20 mg, although death would not have been immediate as victims usually stay alive for several hours.\n\nAccording to Gregory Tsoucalas and Markos Sgantzos, evidence suggests that Octavian ordered the poisoning of Cleopatra. Their claim of alleged murder by Octavian is supported by other authors such as Maloney. In her \"Murder of Cleopatra: History's Greatest Cold Case\" (2013), the criminal profiler Pat Brown argues that Cleopatra was murdered and the details of it were covered up by Roman authorities. Claims that she was murdered, however, contradict the majority of primary sources that report her cause of death as suicide. The English historian Patricia Southern speculates that Octavian could have possibly allowed Cleopatra to choose the manner of her death instead of executing her. James Grout writes that Octavian may have wanted to avoid the sort of sympathy espoused for Cleopatra's younger sister Arsinoe IV when she was paraded in chains but spared during Julius Caesar's triumph. Realizing the political problems of killing a queen whose statue had been erected by his adoptive father Caesar in the Temple of Venus Genetrix, Octavian perhaps permitted Cleopatra \"to die by her own hand,\" according to Grout.\n\nDuring her final days, Cleopatra had Caesarion sent away to Upper Egypt and perhaps planned for him to eventually flee to Nubia, Ethiopia, or India in exile. However, Caesarion would reign as Ptolemy XV for only eighteen days, when he was captured and executed on Octavian's orders on 29 August 30 BC. This was done after the advice given by the Alexandrian Greek philosopher Arius Didymus, who cautioned that two rival heirs to Julius Caesar could not share the world together. \n\nThe deaths of Cleopatra and Caesarion marked the end of both the Ptolemaic dynasty's rule of Egypt and the Hellenistic period, which had lasted since the reign of Alexander the Great (r. 336–323 BC). Egypt became a province of the newly-established Roman Empire, with Octavian renamed in 27 BC as Augustus, the first Roman emperor, ruling with the facade of a Roman Republic. Roller affirms that Caesarion's alleged reign was \"essentially a fiction\" invented by chroniclers of Egypt, such as Clement of Alexandria in his \"Stromata\", to explain the gap between Cleopatra's death and the induction of Egypt as a Roman province directly ruled by Octavian as pharaoh of Egypt. Antony's three children with Cleopatra were spared and sent to Rome; their daughter Cleopatra Selene II eventually married Juba II of Mauretania.\n\nThe site of the mausoleum of Cleopatra and Mark Antony is uncertain. The Egyptian Antiquities Service believes that it is in or near a temple of Taposiris Magna, southwest of Alexandria. In their excavations of the temple of Osiris at Taposiris Magna, Dominican archaeologist Kathleen Martinez and Egyptian archaeologist Zahi Hawass have discovered six burial chambers along with various artifacts, including forty coins minted by Cleopatra and Antony as well as an alabaster bust depicting Cleopatra. An alabaster mask with a cleft chin discovered at the site bears a resemblance to ancient portraits of Mark Antony. In an from the House of Giuseppe II in Pompeii, a rear wall depicted with a set of double doors positioned very high above the scene of a woman wearing a royal diadem and committing suicide among her attendants suggests the described layout of Cleopatra's tomb in Alexandria.\n\nIn his triumphal procession at Rome in 29 BC, Octavian paraded Cleopatra's children Alexander Helios and Cleopatra Selene II, but he also presented an effigy to the crowd depicting Cleopatra with an asp clinging to her. This was likely the same painting discovered in emperor Hadrian's Villa in 1818, now lost but described in an archaeological report and in a steel engraving by John Sartain. However, the poet Propertius, an eyewitness of Octavian's triumph along the Via Sacra, noted that the paraded image of Cleopatra contained multiple snakes biting each of her arms. Citing Plutarch, Giuseppe Pucci indicates that the effigy may have even been a statue. In his \"Notes isiaques I\" (1989), French Archaeologist observed that an ancient Roman statue of a woman wearing a knot of Isis in the Vatican Museums portrays a snake crawling up her right breast, perhaps a depiction of Cleopatra's suicide while dressed as the Egyptian goddess Isis.\n\nA mid-1st century BC Roman wall painting from Pompeii most likely was walled off by its owner around 30 BC, perhaps in reaction to Octavian's proscription against images depicting Caesarion, the rival heir of Julius Caesar. Although statues of Mark Antony were torn down, those of Cleopatra were generally spared this program of destruction, including the one erected by Caesar in the Temple of Venus Genetrix in the Forum of Caesar. An most likely depicts the suicide of Cleopatra, accompanied by attendants and even her son Caesarion wearing a royal diadem like his mother, although an asp is absent from the scene, perhaps reflecting the different causes of death provided in Roman historiography.\n\nThe story of the asp was widely accepted among the Augustan-period Latin poets such as Horace and Virgil, in which two snakes were even suggested as biting Cleopatra. Although retaining the negative views of Cleopatra apparent in other pro-Augustan Roman literature, Horace depicted Cleopatra's suicide as a bold act of defiance and liberation. Virgil established the view of Cleopatra as a figure of epic melodrama and romance.\n\nThe story of Cleopatra's suicide by snakebite was often depicted in Medieval and Renaissance art. In a miniature of a 1409 AD illuminated manuscript of the 14th-century AD poet Giovanni Boccaccio's \"Des cas de nobles hommes et femmes\", the Boucicaut Master in a Gothic-style tomb, with a snake near Cleopatra's chest and a bloody sword through Antony's chest. Illustrated versions of Boccaccio's written works, including images of Cleopatra and Antony committing suicide, first appeared in France during the Quattrocento (i.e. 15th century AD), authored by Laurent de Premierfait. Woodcut illustrations of Boccaccio's \"De Mulieribus Claris\" published at Ulm in 1479 and Augsburg in 1541 depict Cleopatra's discovery of Antony's body after his suicide by stabbing.\n\nLike much of Medieval literature about Cleopatra, Boccaccio's writings are largely negative and misogynistic. However, they were countered by the 14th-century poet Geoffrey Chaucer, who offered a positive view of Cleopatra. Chaucer began his hagiography on virtuous pagan women with the life of Cleopatra, depicted in a satirical fashion as a queen engaged in courtly love with her knight Mark Antony. However, Chaucer's depiction of her suicide included a pit of serpents rather than the Roman tale of the asps.\nDuring the Italian Renaissance, free-standing nude depictions of Cleopatra poisoned by an asp were common. The 16th-century Venetian artist Giovanni Maria Padovano (i.e. Mosca) created two marble reliefs of the suicide of Antony and Cleopatra, as well as various free-standing nude statues of Cleopatra being bitten by the asp that were partly inspired by ancient Roman sculptures such as the \"Esquiline Venus\". Bartolommeo Bandinelli created a drawing of Cleopatra as a free-standing nude committing suicide that served as the basis for a similar engraving by Agostino Veneziano. Another engraving by Veneziano and a drawing by Raphael depicting Cleopatra's suicide as she slumbered were inspired by the ancient Greco-Roman \"Sleeping Ariadne\", which at the time was thought to depict Cleopatra. Works of the French Renaissance also depict Cleopatra slumbering while pressing a snake to her breast. Michelangelo created a black-chalk drawing of Cleopatra's suicide by asp bite around 1535. The 17th-century Baroque painter Guido Reni by asp bite, although the snake depicted is tiny compared to a real Egyptian cobra.\n\nThe \"Sleeping Ariadne\", acquired by Pope Julius II in 1512, inspired the composition of Renaissance literature: three poems that were eventually carved into the pilaster frame of the statue. The first of these poems was published by Baldassare Castiglione, which became widely circulated by 1530 and inspired the other two by Bernardino Baldi and Agostino Favoriti. Castiglione's poem depicted Cleopatra as a tragic but honorable ruler in a doomed love affair with Antony, a queen whose death freed her from the ignominy of Roman imprisonment. The \"Sleeping Ariadne\" was also commonly depicted in paintings, including those by Titian, Artemisia Gentileschi, and Edward Burne-Jones. These works tended to eroticize the moment of Cleopatra's death, while Victorian era artists found the unconscious, recumbent female form as an acceptable outlet for their eroticism.\nCleopatra's death is featured in various works of the performing arts. In the 1607 play \"Devil's Charter\" by Barnabe Barnes, a snake handler brings the two asps to Cleopatra and allows them to bite both her breasts in a racy manner. In William Shakespeare's 1609 play \"Antony and Cleopatra\" the snake represents both death as well as a lover who Cleopatra desires, yielding to his pinch. Shakespeare relied on Thomas North's 1579 translation of Plutarch for crafting his play, which can be viewed as both a comedy and a tragedy. The play involved use of multiple asps, as well as the character of Charmion who killed herself by asp bite after Cleopatra.\n\nIn modern literature, Ted Hughes' poem \"Cleopatra to the Asp\" (1960) creates a monologue of Cleopatra speaking to the asp that is about to kill her. During the Victorian era, plays such as \"Cléopâtre\" (1890) by Victorien Sardou became popular, although audiences were generally shocked by the emotional intensity of stage actress Sarah Bernhardt's depiction of Cleopatra reacting to Antony's suicide. In opera, Samuel Barber's \"Antony and Cleopatra\", first performed in 1966 and based on Shakespeare's play, Cleopatra recounts a dream that Antony, now dead before her, would become emperor of Rome. When Dollabella informs her that Caesar intends to march her in his triumph in Rome, she commits suicide with Charmion by asp bite, before being carried off to be buried with Antony.\nIn cinema, the character of Cleopatra had appeared in forty-three different films by the end of the 20th century. Georges Méliès' \"Robbing Cleopatra's Tomb\" (), an 1899 French silent horror film, was the first film to depict the character of Cleopatra. Following the Italo-Turkish War (1911–1912), the 1913 Italian film \"Marcantonio e Cleopatra\" by Enrico Guazzoni depicted Cleopatra as the embodiment of the cruel Orient, a queen who had defied Rome, while the actions of her lover Antony, after his suicide, are forgiven by Octavian. In cultivating a stage persona for her character in the 1917 US film \"Cleopatra\", actress Theda Bara was seen in public petting snakes while the Fox Film Corporation posed her in front of Cleopatra's alleged mummified remains in a museum, where she announced that she was the reincarnation of Cleopatra, having received hieroglyphic tributary offerings from a reincarnated servant. Fox Studios also had Bara dress as a leader of the occult and associated her with perverse death and sexuality. The 1963 Hollywood film \"Cleopatra\" by Joseph L. Mankiewicz contains a dramatic scene where the Egyptian queen, portrayed by Elizabeth Taylor, is engaged in a slap-fight with her lover Mark Antony, portrayed by Richard Burton, inside the tomb where they would be interred.\n\nIn other modern visual arts, Cleopatra has been depicted in mediums such as paintings and sculptures. In her 1876 sculpture \"The Death of Cleopatra\", African American artist Edmonia Lewis, despite championing the non-white female form in artworks, chose to depict Cleopatra with Caucasian features, perhaps in keeping with Cleopatra's recorded lineage as a Macedonian Greek. Lewis' Neoclassical sculpture offers a post-mortem view of Cleopatra dressed in Egyptian regalia and sitting on her throne, which is decorated with two sphinx heads that represent the twins she bore with Mark Antony: Alexander Helios and Cleopatra Selene II. An 1880 , now found in Lille, France, was once thought to be a work by Albert Darcq, but a restoration and cleaning of the sculpture revealed the signature of Charles Gauthier, to whom the work is now attributed. The 1874 painting \"Death of Cleopatra\" by Jean-André Rixens depicts a dead Cleopatra with very light skin, accompanied by maidservants with rather dark skin, a combination frequently found in modern artworks portraying the scene of Cleopatra's death. Orientalist paintings by Rixens and others influenced the hybrid Ancient-Egyptian and Middle-Eastern decor found in the J. Gordon Edwards' film \"Cleopatra\" starring Bara, seen standing on a Persian carpet but with Egyptian wall paintings in the background.\n\n\nOnline sources\nPrinted sources\n\n"}
{"id": "1000390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1000390", "title": "Decimation (Roman army)", "text": "Decimation (Roman army)\n\nDecimation (; \"decem\" = \"ten\") was a form of military discipline used by senior commanders in the Roman Army to punish units or large groups guilty of capital offences, such as mutiny or desertion. The word \"decimation\" is derived from Latin meaning \"removal of a tenth\".\nThe procedure was a pragmatic attempt to balance the need to punish serious offences with the realities of managing a large group of offenders.\n\nA cohort (roughly 480 soldiers) selected for punishment by decimation was divided into groups of ten. Each group drew lots (sortition), and the soldier on whom the lot fell was executed by his nine comrades, often by stoning or clubbing. The remaining soldiers were often given rations of barley instead of wheat (the latter being the standard soldier's diet) for a few days, and required to bivouac outside the fortified security of the camp.\n\nAs the punishment fell by lot, all soldiers in a group sentenced to decimation were potentially liable for execution, regardless of individual degrees of fault, rank, or distinction.\n\nThe earliest documented decimation occurred in 471 BC during the Roman Republic's early wars against the Volsci and is recorded by Livy. In an incident where his army had been scattered, consul Appius Claudius Sabinus Regillensis had the culprits punished for desertion: centurions, standard-bearers and soldiers who had cast away their weapons were individually scourged and beheaded, while of the remainder, one in ten were chosen by lot and executed.\n\nPolybius gives one of the first descriptions of the practice in the early 3rd century BC:\n\nThe practice was revived by Marcus Licinius Crassus in 71 BC during the Third Servile War against Spartacus, and some historical sources attribute part of Crassus' success to it. The number of men killed through decimation is not known, but it varies between 1,000 (used on 10,000 men), or a cohort of around 480-500 men, meaning that 48-50 were killed.\n\nJulius Caesar threatened to decimate the 9th Legion during the war against Pompey, but never did.\n\nPlutarch describes the process in his work \"Life of Antony\". After a defeat in Media:\n\nDecimation was still being practised during the time of the Roman Empire, although it was very uncommon. Suetonius records that it was used by Emperor Augustus in 17 BC and later by Galba, while Tacitus records that Lucius Apronius used decimation to punish a full cohort of the III Augusta after their defeat by Tacfarinas in AD 20. G.R. Watson notes that \"its appeal was to those obsessed with \"nimio amore antiqui moris\" – that is, an excessive love for ancient customs – and notes, \"Decimation itself, however, was ultimately doomed, for though the army might be prepared to assist in the execution of innocent slaves, professional soldiers could hardly be expected to cooperate in the indiscriminate execution of their own comrades.\" The emperor Macrinus instituted a less harsh \"centesimatio\", the execution of every 100th man.\n\nAccording to legend, the Theban Legion, led by Saint Maurice, was decimated in the third century AD. The Legion had refused, to a man, to accede to an order of the Emperor, and the process was repeated until none were left. They became known as the Martyrs of Agaunum.\n\nThe Eastern Roman Emperor Maurice forbade in his Strategikon the \"decimatio\" and other brutal punishments. According to him, punishments where the rank and file see their comrades dying by the hands of their own brothers-in-arms could lead to a collapse of morale. Moreover, it could seriously deplete the manpower of the fighting unit.\n\nDuring the Battle of Breitenfeld (1642), near Leipzig, one of the many battles of the Thirty Years' War, Colonel Madlon's cavalry regiment was the first that fled without striking a blow. This was followed by the massive flight of other cavalry units, which was the final turning point in the battle. The battle was a decisive victory for the Swedish army under the command of Field Marshal Lennart Torstenson over an Imperial Army of the Holy Roman Empire under the command of Archduke Leopold Wilhelm of Austria and his deputy, Prince-General Ottavio Piccolomini, Duke of Amalfi. Archduke Leopold Wilhelm assembled a court-martial in Prague which sentenced the Madlon regiment to exemplary punishment. Six regiments, which had distinguished themselves in the battle, were assembled fully armed, and surrounded Madlon's regiment, which was severely rebuked for its cowardice and misconduct, and ordered to lay down its arms at the feet of General Piccolomini. When they had obeyed this command, their ensigns (flags) were torn in pieces; and the general, having mentioned the causes of their degradation, and erased the regiment from the register of the imperial troops, pronounced the sentence that had been agreed upon in the council of war, condemning the colonel, captains and lieutenants to be beheaded, the ensigns (junior officers) to be hanged, the soldiers to be decimated and the survivors to be driven in disgrace out of the army. Ninety men (chosen by rolling dice) were executed at Rokycany, in western Bohemia, now in the Czech Republic, on December 14, 1642 by Jan Mydlář (junior), the son of Jan Mydlář, the famous executioner from Prague. On the first day of the execution, the regiment's cords were broken by the executioner. On the second day, officers were beheaded and selected men hanged on the trees on the road from Rokycany to Litohlavy. Another version says that the soldiers were shot, and their bodies hanged on the trees. Their mass grave is said to be on the Black Mound in Rokycany, which commemorates the decimation to this day.\n\nOn Sept 3, 1866, during the Battle of Curuzu, during the Paraguayan War, the Paraguayan 10th Battalion fled without firing a shot. President Lopez ordered the decimation of the battalion, which was accordingly formed into line and every tenth man shot.\n\nIn 1914, in France, there was a case in which a company of Tunisian tirailleurs (colonial soldiers) refused an order to attack and was ordered decimated by the divisional commander. This involved the execution of ten men.\n\nItalian General Luigi Cadorna allegedly applied decimation to underperforming units during World War I. However, the military historian John Keegan records that his \"judicial savagery\" during the Battle of Caporetto took the form of the summary executions of individual stragglers rather than the formalized winnowing of entire detachments. Certainly one specific instance of actual decimation did occur in the Italian Army during the war, on 26 May 1916. This involved the execution of one in ten soldiers of a 120 strong company of the 141st Catanzaro Infantry Brigade, which had mutinied. Officers, carabinieri and non-mutinying soldiers had been killed during the outbreak.\n\nDuring the suppression of the German Revolution 29 men from the Volksmarinedivision were murdered after 300 men turned up to receive their discharge papers and back pay.\n\nIn the Russian Civil War, Leon Trotsky as leader of the Red Army ordered decimation for deserters.\n\nDuring the Battle of Stalingrad, Second World War, Soviet Army officers used decimation as a punishment for soldiers who retreated while still carrying weapons and ammunition.\n\nDecimation can be also used to punish the enemy. In 1918, in the Finnish Civil War, the White troops, after conquering the Red city of Varkaus, summarily executed around 80 captured Reds in what became known as the Lottery of Huruslahti. According to some accounts, the Whites ordered all the captured Reds to assemble in a single row on the ice of Lake Huruslahti, selected every tenth prisoner, and executed him on the spot. The selection was not entirely random though, as some prisoners (primarily Red leaders) were specifically selected for execution and some other individuals were intentionally spared.\n\nThe word \"decimation\" in English is often used to refer to an extreme reduction in the number of a population or force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54866211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54866211", "title": "Edematous areola", "text": "Edematous areola\n\nAn edematous areola is a swollen and tender inflammation of the areola of the breast. It can develop after childbirth when large amounts of fluids are given intravenously, use of pitocin or fluid retention for other reasons, and may interfere with successful initiation of breastfeeding. An edematous areola can also develop in women with preeclampsia.\n"}
{"id": "7952611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7952611", "title": "Florence Deshon", "text": "Florence Deshon\n\nFlorence Deshon (July 19, 1893February 4, 1922) was an American motion picture actress in silent films. Born in Tacoma, Washington, Deshon began her film career in 1915, appearing in \"The Beloved Vagabond\", and would later star in numerous pictures for Samuel Goldwyn and Vitagraph Studios between 1918 and 1921. She was romantically involved with writer Max Eastman and actor Charlie Chaplin. She died of gas asphyxiation in her New York City apartment.\n\nDeshon was born Florence Danks in Tacoma, Washington to Samuel Danks, a musician and union organizer from Wales, and Flora Caroline Spatzer, a pianist of Austro-Hungarian descent. She lived with her parents and older brother, Walter, in Washington until around 1900, when the family moved to New York City, where her parents pursued musical careers.\n\nIn 1913, she became acquainted with Max Eastman in Greenwich Village, and the two became romantically involved.\n\nDeshon appeared in more than twenty movies beginning in 1915 with \"The Beloved Vagabond\". In 1919, while living in New York City, she was summoned by Samuel Goldwyn to Los Angeles, California, and offered her work in his studio.\n\nFlorence played in features for Vitagraph until 1921. Her final film credit was in the role of \"Sally McTurk\" in \"The Roof Tree\", directed by John Francis Dillon. She returned to New York City with her mother in December 1921. Deshon hoped to continue her work in films there.\n\nIn addition to her relationship with Max Eastman, Deshon had a purported romantic relationship with Charlie Chaplin while living in Los Angeles, and purportedly \"commuted from coast to coast\" between the two men.\n\nOn February 4, 1922, Deshon was found unconscious on the third floor of her apartment building at 120 West Eleventh Street. A window was open in her bedroom but illuminating gas flowed from an opened jet. A newspaperwoman, Minnie Morris, found Deshon when she returned to the building. An ambulance took Deshon to St. Vincent's Hospital, but attempts to revive her were unsuccessful. She died the following afternoon. She was 28 years old. Deshon's apartment had been subleased from Doris Stevens, who was married to Dudley Field Malone. The couple were honeymooning in Europe at the time of the actress' death. Deshon was listed as being a resident of both Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Los Angeles. She died 5 days after William Desmond Taylor, who overshadowed her.\n\nThe New York Medical Examiner concluded Deshon's death was accidental. However, rumors persisted among her circle of friends and acquaintances that she might have committed suicide, and several biographers, including Ross Wetzsteon and Christoph Irmscher, have described her death as such. An unsubstantiated comment from a neighbour had it that she had recently argued with a person who came to her apartment. Having recently broken off their relationship, Eastman claimed that Deshon had no reason to kill herself and that her death was accidental but other mutual friends believed that she did indeed commit suicide. Eastman came across her on the street on the afternoon before her death when they spoke briefly before going their separate ways. That evening, Eastman heard that she had been rushed to hospital whilst he was watching a theatre performance. He went to St. Vincent's and gave blood but the attempt to revive Deshon was futile.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3219156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3219156", "title": "Free will theorem", "text": "Free will theorem\n\nThe free will theorem of John H. Conway and Simon B. Kochen states that if we have a free will in the sense that our choices are not a function of the past, then, subject to certain assumptions, so must some elementary particles. Conway and Kochen's paper was published in \"Foundations of Physics\" in 2006. In 2009 they published a stronger version of the theorem in the Notices of the AMS. Later Simon elaborated some details.\n\nThe proof of the theorem as originally formulated relies on three axioms, which Conway and Kochen call \"fin\", \"spin\", and \"twin\". The spin and twin axioms can be verified experimentally.\n\nIn their later paper, \"The Strong Free Will Theorem\", Conway and Kochen replace the Fin axiom by a weaker one called Min, thereby strengthening the theorem. Min asserts only that two experimenters separated in a space-like way can make choices of measurements independently of each other. In particular it is not postulated that the speed of transfer of \"all\" information is subject to a maximum limit, but only of the particular information about choices of measurements.\n\nThe free will theorem states:\n\nSince the theorem applies to any arbitrary physical theory consistent with the axioms, it would not even be possible to place the information into the universe's past in an ad hoc way. The argument proceeds from the Kochen–Specker theorem, which shows that the result of any individual measurement of spin was not fixed independently of the choice of measurements. As stated by Cator and Landsman regarding hidden-variable theories: \"There has been a similar tension between the idea that the hidden variables (in the pertinent causal past) should on the one hand include all ontological information relevant to the experiment, but on the other hand should leave the experimenters free to choose any settings they like.\"\n\nAccording to Cator and Landsman, Conway and Kochen prove that \"determinism is incompatible with a number of \"a priori\" desirable assumptions\". Cator and Landsman compare the Min assumption to the locality assumption in Bell's theorem and conclude in the strong free will theorem's favor that it \"uses fewer assumptions than Bell’s 1964 theorem, as no appeal to probability theory is made\". The philosopher David Hodgson supports this theorem as showing quite conclusively that \"science does not support determinism\": that quantum mechanics proves that particles do indeed behave in a way that is not a function of the past. Some critics argue that the theorem applies only to deterministic models. Others have argued that the indeterminism that Conway and Kochen claim to have established was already assumed in the premises of their proof.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16799850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16799850", "title": "Horace S. Eldredge", "text": "Horace S. Eldredge\n\nHorace Sunderlin Eldredge (February 6, 1816 – September 6, 1888) was an early leader and member of the First Seven Presidents of the Seventy in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.\n\nEldredge was born in Brutus, New York. In the summer of 1836 he was baptized and then married Betsey Ann Chase in the summer of 1837 in Buffalo, New York. Weeks after purchasing a farm in Far West, Missouri, he was expelled along with the rest of the Latter Day Saints by Missouri Executive Order 44.\n\nFollowing the death of Joseph Smith, Eldredge followed The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to what became the Utah Territory, where he was appointed marshal of the Territory, assessor and collector of taxes and a brigadier-general of the militia. On October 7, 1854, he was appointed one of the Presidents of the Seventy, a position he held until his death. In 1856 and 1862 he served in the Utah Territorial Legislature. He was superintendent of ZCMI for several years before his death. Eldredge practiced plural marriage and fathered 28 children. He died in Salt Lake City of lung trouble.\n"}
{"id": "48648571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48648571", "title": "James Ireland Craig", "text": "James Ireland Craig\n\nJames Ireland Craig (1868–1952) was a Scottish mathematician, meteorologist and creator of the Craig retroazimuthal projection.\n\nHe was born on 24 February 1868 in Buckhaven the son of Captain T M Craig, a pioneer in the development of Borneo, and his wife Agnes. He was educated at Daniel Stewart's College in Edinburgh, where he was school dux for 1885. He then attended Edinburgh University and then Emmanuel College, Cambridge, graduating MA in 1892.\n\nIn 1893 he became a Master, teaching mathematics at Eton College then at Winchester College from 1895. In 1896 he moved to Egypt to work for the Egyptian government.\nIn 1908 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh for his contributions to cartography. His proposers were George Chrystal, William J MacDonald, John Alison and John Brown Clark.\n\nHe created, in 1909, the Craig retroazimuthal projection that preserves true directions on a map to a specified location, such as Mecca, which it why it is often called the Mecca projection.\n\nHe returned to Britain during the First World War and was based in London at the Ministry of Food. In the aftermath of the war he was creator Food Controller 1918-20 for Upper Silesia (now SW Poland). In 1925 he returned to Egypt as Controller General, then, from 1928 to 1934, was Financial Secretary to the Egyptian Census. In 1934 (aged already 66) he was made UK Government Commissioner of Customs. He finally retired from employment in 1947, aged 79. He still spent much of his time in Egypt.\n\nIn 1942 he was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for his services in Egypt.\n\nHe was killed aged 83 in a deliberate fire at the Turf Club in Cairo, set by rioters on 26 January 1952 during the Cairo Fire.\n\nIn 1897 he married Isabella Wilson (died 1948).\n\n"}
{"id": "17444663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17444663", "title": "James J. Rhoades", "text": "James J. Rhoades\n\nJames John Rhoades (December 5, 1941 – October 18, 2008) was a Republican member of the Pennsylvania State Senate who represented the 29th District from 1980 until his death.\n\nRhoades graduated from East Stroudsburg University of Pennsylvania in 1963 with a bachelor's degree in education and was a member of Sigma Pi fraternity. He later earned a master's degree in education from Lehigh University in 1966. After graduation, Rhoades started as a teacher and football coach at the Pottsville and Mahanoy City High School.\n\nAfter seven years of teaching, Rhoades was appointed as the principal of the Mahanoy Area Middle School. He served as principal for ten years before his election to the State Senate.\n\nRhoades died in the hospital on October 18, 2008, a day after being injured in an automobile accident near Brodheadsville, Pennsylvania, in Monroe County. He had been en route to a Pleasant Valley High School football game. His wife, Mary, was also injured in the crash. Thomas Senavitis was arrested for allegedly driving under the influence and causing the accident with a blood alcohol level of 0.355%, over 4 times the Pennsylvania state limit of 0.08%.\n\nRhoades was defeated for a seat in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives in 1978. However, in 1980, he won a seat in the Pennsylvania State Senate, defeating Democratic incumbent Joseph Gurzenda.\n\nAs a former educator, Rhoades had an interest in education issues and ultimately became Chairman of the Senate Education Committee. As chairman of that committee, Rhoades had influence over almost all education related laws, including the Pennsylvania Safe Schools Act and the Head Start Supplemental Assistance Program.\n\nHe also served on the Appropriations, Transportation, Law and Justice, and Environmental Resources and Energy committees.\n\nAt the time of Rhoades' death, he was running for his eighth term in the State Senate, making him second behind Stewart Greenleaf on the list of the longest serving senators. With absentee ballots having already been mailed in the state, the county could not remove Rhoades' name from the ballot.\n\nRhoades was posthumously re-elected with 64% of the vote, meaning that a special election would be held for his seat. In a special election held on March 3, 2009, Republican state Representative Dave Argall was elected to Rhoades' seat over his Democratic opponent, Schuylkill County Clerk of Courts Steven Lukach, by a margin of 62% to 38%.\n\nRhoades was the cousin of Bishop Kevin C. Rhoades, the former Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Harrisburg and the current Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. His son Mike is the current head coach of the VCU men's basketball team and the former head coach at Rice University.\n\n"}
{"id": "38469461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38469461", "title": "Joe Brady (footballer)", "text": "Joe Brady (footballer)\n\nJoseph 'Joe' Brady was a footballer who played as an outside left or right for Sheffield United during the 1892–93 season. Registered at the start of the club's first campaign in The Football League he struggled to break into the first team and made only ten appearances in total during the course of the season, although most of these were in friendlies. His only competitive games were against Newcastle United in the Northern League and against Sunderland in the FA Cup. Lacking the quality needed to play in the Football League he was released in the summer of 1893.\n"}
{"id": "33751142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33751142", "title": "Karen Ashcraft", "text": "Karen Ashcraft\n\nKaren Ashcraft is a communication scholar and a current professor at the University of Colorado at Boulder. Her area of research is in social justice and organizational studies. She looks at identity in the workplace and organizational structures. Specifically she studies issues of diversity, hybrid organizations, gender and power. Being an organizational communication scholar, she sees discourse as central to understanding our human condition as well as how communication amounts to organizing. She examines discourse through a lens of a feminist communicology model to look at the critical role that communication has in one’s identity creation.\n\nShe completed her dissertation and received her PhD in 1998 at the University of Colorado at Boulder. She was an Associate Professor and taught at the University of Utah. She returned to the University of Colorado at Boulder to teach in 2009 and where she remains today as a Professor. She is a feminist communication scholar who studies objects in a wider political, cultural, and economic context. Her research has primarily covered gender, power, professional identity, and alternative organizational forms. With a major focus on her work on feminism in organization communication she is able to delve into areas of underrepresented gender groups.\n\nThe majority of Karen Ashcraft’s work takes place within professional organizations. A frequent area in which she researches are the effects communication differences is gender identity. Her work explores communication through a critical and feminist lens. When looking in the setting of a professional organization the structure of it is significant to the way it runs and its outcomes. While Ashcraft explores issues of diversity, identity, gender, power, and discourse; the organizational setting that she observes plays a pivotal role in her findings.\n\nThe bureaucracy structure has been utilized over years and at times been seen to be reasonable and helpful, but alternative structures that call on different aspects can also be helpful. Since bureaucracy has historically been known to be an expression that favors a male ideology, feminist have been known to advocate collectivism. Traditionally bureaucracies have been hierarchical in authority, having impersonal relations, and biased notions of objectivity and rationality. Through feminist organizations egalitarian tendencies are more sought out and collectivism displays a way to pursue empowerment by seeking to be harmonious in both private and public spheres. Feminist Organizations are a resource that no one had truly delved into in the past. Ashcraft displays how if included within management then research can create random alliances and uncover alternative viewpoints that may counter current ideologies. She sees feminist organizational communication theory as an extension of the larger feminist movement that can be seen independent of critical theory.\nAshcraft examines how discursive messages constitute organizational setting’s gendered identity, instead of reflecting it. In this way, she discusses how discourse produces, solidifies, interrupts, and modifies gender identity. In one way, institutional discourse sides more with the individual rather than systematic tendencies. It separates women and men, it normalizes dominant groups’ discourse, and it warrants rationale for organizational control and exclusion with difference. In a different light, looking at discourse as a performance highlights the way in which Ashcraft sees discourse constituting gender. If we were to value difference then it would involve celebrating asymmetrical power relations (Ashcraft and Pakanowsky, 1996). She advocates that the process of interaction will elicit the audience to see a new perspective. A fresh set of lenses can definitely help insiders and outsiders understand that larger context and may pair then with better understanding.\nKaren Ashcraft, along with Dennis Mumby, present four frames that can be used within the communication field to analyze discourse, power, identity, and gendered organizing relationships. \n\nThe feminist lens that Ashcraft uses enhances understanding of organizational hybrids. A hybrid organization are often less ideologically pure but more receptive to practical troubles, may better assist in institutional improvements, emancipatory revisions, or resistant behaviors. A paradoxical hybrid looks at how organizational members dealt with contradicting forms in quotidian practices. Ashcraft looks at how through hybrid forms of organizing, organizations want to find and create different options than simply the bureaucratic structure. She discusses how some organizations move from a form of bureaucracy and hierarchy, to one being feminist and egalitarian and how these two philosophies can cause tensions that may be hard to mediate.\n\nThe hybrid that erodes from her research she terms “organized dissonance.” The idea of this is that it interrupts the hegemonic generalizations about rationality, forms of organization, and power. Organized dissonance is a distinctive paradoxical form of hybrid that gets enlightened by feminist bureaucracy. This term describes an efficiently united set of forms that are thought to be confrontational. In Ashcraft’s words, it is a “ strategic union of forms presumed hostile”.\n\nOrganized dissonance is a class of hybrid organization; its strategic incongruity is its guiding presumption. Organizations meet commands and objectives that conflict by employing incompatible forms. This ultimately allows members to interact with contradicting dialect that is quite deliberate. Organized dissonance brings about tensions that are among areas of: equality/inequality, centralization/decentralization, stability/flexibility, and individual/community. By disrupting the ideal harmonious hybrid organized dissonance meets goals that are contradictory. Ashcraft argues that the idea of cautiously pairing members with the “enemy” may be a better way to permit social change. Ashcraft argues that seeing these tensions that come out of hybrid forms of organizing is of great importance to examine.\n\nAshcraft discusses speaking of organizational systems and behaviors as gendered but it is also important to be thinking about race. Too often do we focus meticulously on gendered ways of organizing and we consistently ignore how we are essentially raced. When looking at diversity there are many misunderstandings and aspects that are left out that tie into the way we see diversity in the workplace. Ashcraft, along with Allen, highlight five consequences of the ways that we are inclined to express and silence race while preserving the normative power of organized Whiteness.\n\nThe first message is that “race tends to be depicted as separate, singular that is relevant only under certain circumstances”. It is simultaneously being concealed as something that has previously been written in institutions. When we discuss race, it often seems to demonstrate an identity that is fixed with comparatively predictable outcomes on one’s outlook or actions. Issues of race are also usually constrained to practice and “professional” settings. She suggests that displaying race as a central element in an organization can help by incorporating issues of race within foundational texts.\n\nThe second message is that “race is relevant in so far as it involves cultural differences, which can be identified, valued, and managed to improve organizational performance” (Ashcraft & Allen, 2003). Here stands a desperate need for appreciation and understanding to cultural diversity, which if strategically applied can allow organizational productivity and innovation to flourish. She discusses that theorizing race could help by exposing and engaging it as a serious matter within the organization. This will allow members to better grasp how race gets organizations become raced and how race gets organized.\n\nThe third message is that “all cultural differences are synonymous with international variations” (Ashcraft & Allen, 2003). As globalization rapidly spreads, organizations are expected to employ and understand differences among cultures. Another aspect is that all of the cultural differences correspond to those that are between nations. Ashcraft discusses that we can point to and expand on ranges of racial categories and heterogeneity that is encompassed within each in order to steer away from racial bifurcations. We can then propose essential possibilities to “cultural difference” race models.\nThe fourth message is that “racial discrimination is a function of personal bias, interpersonal misunderstanding, organizational failure to manage cultural differences, and disproportionate demographics” (Ashcraft & Allen, 2003). Discrimination comes from numerous sources including misunderstandings and management styles. It is described as being an unfortunate behavior of members inside an organization and not as a distinctive organizational creation. It is important to study experiences that comparative to workers of multiple racial groups within diverse organizational environments.\n\nThe fifth message is “white (collar) workplaces and work/ers constitute “universal” settings, identities, and practices” 2003. This is to say that organizations can colonize their members in various ways, but by placing assumptions on a “universal” worker may place some members in a more favorable and appropriate place than others. For example, when we craft our “professional” self then we must also enact “Whiteness,” because of the dilution of cultural identities and having “whiteness” as a homogeneous and invisible standard. Here Ashcraft suggests to examine the idea that we are all raced beings, including that of Whiteness.\n\nIf we look into our industry’s racial roots we will be able to have a richer understanding on how organizing is raced very deeply. When looking at race an important aspect that Ashcraft delves into is being sensitive to absence and presence. Here she looks at both why and how race draws our obvious attention and indefinite silence to certain things. Ashcraft displays how institutional powers use both race and gender to delineate members as having less credibility or in sexualized ways. In this way, culture’s of organizations have an interplay with raced organizations in that it supports or contradicts social constructions of race and gender that happen at the societal level.\n\nIt is significant for Ashcraft to study and initiate discourse over troubling questions because they are much overdue. After sparking awareness, eventually she has a vision to rebuild the racial foundation of organizational communication.\n\nKaren Ashcraft has appeared in the following forums: Communication Monographics, Administrative Science Quarterly, and Academy of Management Journal. She has co-authored a book with Dennis Mumby in 2004 named Reworking Gender: A Feminist Communicology of Organization. She has written several chapters in numerous books as well as been published among multiple Communication research journals.\n\nKaren Ashcraft has been the recipient of many academic honors and awards. Following are just some of her honors: Article of the Year Award for NCA in the Organizational Communication Division, in 2006, Book of the Year Award for NCA in the Organizational Communication Division in 2004, and she was named the Virgil C. Aldrich Fellow by the Tanner Humanities Center at the University of Utah for Spring 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "330920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330920", "title": "List of people who were executed", "text": "List of people who were executed\n\nThis is a list of people who have been executed. The list is categorised by the reason for execution and the year of the execution is included.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGroups:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57287712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57287712", "title": "Lucius Banks", "text": "Lucius Banks\n\nLucius Banks, Jr. (1 May 1886 – February 1955) was an American professional rugby union player in England. Banks, who played for Hunslet R.L.F.C. in Hunslet, Leeds in 1912, is thought to be the first black athlete to compete in rugby league football; the first American to play rugby league; and, according to the historian Tony Collins, \"probably only the fourth black American to play professional football of any code\". \n\nBanks was born in Virginia in either 1885 or 1886 to Lucius Banks Sr. and Julia Webb Banks. The family moved to Arlington, Massachusetts when he was still young. \n\nPrior to coming in the UK, Banks had served in the U.S. cavalry, recorded as a private in 1910 in the \"Army and Navy Register\". He was stationed at West Point, New York from 1908–1912, where he excelled in both cricket and American football.\n\nBanks was spotted playing as a quarterback in New York by a one-time member of Hunslet R.L.F.C.'s management committee, and the club bought him out of the army and brought him to the UK, apparently partly because the club thought an exotic player would boost revenue. The strategy seems to have worked, as 'his presence significantly swelled the attendance at his first game'.\n\nBanks's performance seems to have been fairly successful: playing on the wing, he scored four tries during his first four games for the club, the first of which was on 27 January 1912, against York R.L.F.C.. He later moved to playing as , before returning to America following his last game with the club, on 26 December 1912.\n\nLocal news reporting on Banks's first game in England included some prominent racist coverage, with a local evening paper running the headline 'Hunslet's Coloured Coon' and the \"Yorkshire Post\" suggesting that local players should have been hired instead and commenting that 'if the club wanted to sign \"coloured\" players they should go to South Africa, where \"they are reputed to be capable goal kickers with bare feet\" '.\n\nMore recently, however, Banks has become a celebrated figure, seen as a pioneer in what has become a long history of black rugby league players.\n\nFollowing his days in England, Banks served in the First World War and saw active service in France. In 1919, he joined the Boston Police Department and worked as a police officer for 27 years. He was also a member of the Prince Hall Free & Accepted Masonic Lodge. He died in 1955 (when his age was listed as 68) and was survived his wife, Maude, and son, Richard L. Banks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2689155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2689155", "title": "Matti Häyry", "text": "Matti Häyry\n\nMatti Häyry (; born 20.9.1956) is Professor of Philosophy at Aalto University School of Business in Helsinki, Finland. In 2004-2013, he was Professor of Bioethics and Philosophy of Law at the University of Manchester in England, and before that he held professorships in philosophy and moral philosophy at the universities of Central Lancashire and Kuopio.\n\nHäyry’s main fields of interest have been moral and political philosophy and philosophical bioethics. He studied philosophy at the University of Helsinki and started focusing on medical and healthcare ethics during his postgraduate years. His practical topics in bioethics have ranged from abortion, euthanasia, and resource allocation to genetics, systems biology, and synthetic biology. Theoretically, his work has centred on the main normative doctrines of European moral and political philosophy.\n\nHäyry is a founding member of the International Association of Bioethics and he served on its board of directors during 2001–2009, in 2007–2009 as the association’s president.\n\nIn an endeavour to express ethical ideas in an artistic format, Häyry produced in 2013 – with Tuija Takala, Corky Laing, and Lasse Väyrynen – a concept album on the ethics of genetics; (Gonzo Multimedia 2013).\n\nHäyry, Matti & Häyry, Heta, Rakasta, kärsi ja unhoita: Moraalifilosofisia pohdintoja ihmiselämän alusta ja lopusta. Kirjayhtymä 1987. \n\nHäyry, Heta & Häyry, Matti, Taide, tunne ja turmelus: Kaksi näkökulmaa R. G. Collingwoodin estetiikkaan. Helsingin yliopiston filosofian laitoksen julkaisuja 4/1989. \n\nHäyry, Matti, Critical studies in philosophical medical ethics. University of Helsinki 1990. \n\nHäyry, Matti, Liberal utilitarianism and applied ethics. Routledge 1994. \n\nHäyry, Heta & Häyry, Matti, Hyvä, kaunis, tosi – arvojen filosofiaa. Yliopistopaino 1997. \n\nHäyry, Heta & Häyry, Matti, Elämän ehdot: Bioetiikan, vapauden ja vastuun filosofiaa. Yliopistopaino 1997. \n\nHäyry, Matti, Ihannevaltio: Historiallinen johdatus yhteiskuntafilosofiaan. WSOY 2000. \n\nHäyry, Matti, Mahdollisimman monen onnellisuus: Utilitarismin historia, teoria ja sovellukset. WSOY 2001. \n\nHäyry, Matti, Playing God: Essays on Bioethics. Helsinki University Press 2001. \n\nHäyry, Matti, Hyvä elämä ja oikea käytös: Historiallinen johdatus moraalifilosofiaan. Yliopistopaino 2002. \n\nHäyry, Matti, Cloning, Selection, and Values: Essays on Bioethical Intuitions. Acta Philosophica Fennica 2007. \n\nHäyry, Matti, Rationality and the Genetic Challenge: Making People Better? Cambridge University Press 2010. \n\nHäyry, Matti, Ihminen 2.0: Geneettisen valikoinnin ja parantelun eettiset kysymykset.Gaudeamus 2012. \n"}
{"id": "1356696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356696", "title": "Megalon", "text": "Megalon\n\nMegalon is a bipedal, humanoid, beetle-like burrowing insect standing at 55 meters (180 feet) tall and weighing 40,000 metric tons (44,092 short tons), and the god of the subterranean nation of Seatopia. While Megalon is by no means intelligent, he makes up for it with his strength. Megalon possess two drill-like front appendages, which it uses both for burrowing and as weapons, and a set of wings usually covered by a beetle-like shell. The creature can fly at speeds of up to Mach 3, burrow underground at speeds of up to Mach 2, and swim at speeds of up to Mach 4. Megalon also has a horn (similar to a rhinoceros beetle) from which it can fire lightning-like bolts of electricity, and it is capable of spitting napalm bombs from its mouth. \n\nIn \"Godzilla vs. Megalon\", Megalon is worshipped as a deity by the people of the subterranean kingdom known as Seatopia. The Seatopians unleash Megalon on the surface world as revenge for the damage caused to Seatopia through reckless nuclear testing. During his assault on the surface world, Megalon comes into conflict with Godzilla and Jet Jaguar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26152112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26152112", "title": "Missional community", "text": "Missional community\n\nA Missional community is a group of people, about the size of an extended family, who are united through Christian community around a common service and witness to a particular neighborhood or network of relationships. The Missional Community doesn't exist for anything less than making disciples of Jesus among these networks or neighborhoods. The participants of missional communities find their primary identity of “church” within the missional community, rather than a larger worship service or small group. In essence, this group of people becomes a close-knit spiritual family on mission together.\n\nMissional Communities (MCs) are designed to be a flexible, local expression of church, not dependent on typical church buildings or church services. MCs have been described as “small enough to care but large enough to dare.” Missional Communities may be called by other names, such as Clusters, Go Communities, Incarnational Communities, or Mission Shaped Communities. MCs are primarily led by laity and are “lightweight and low maintenance” and most often meet 3-4 times a month in their missional context. Missional Communities place a strong value on life together, with the expressed intention of seeing those they impact choose to start following Jesus. With this focus, a Missional Community will often grow and multiply into other MCs. Missional Communities are most often networked within a larger church community, often with many other Missional Communities.\n\nAn MC has leaders who, through a process of discernment, decide their mission vision and then invite people to join them in reaching that particular context. The leaders of the MC are held accountable by the leadership of the greater church community, both for what they do and for the way in which they do it (i.e., character as well as task). “Low control, high accountability” is one way to describe relationships between the Missional Community and the church body and leadership. Alex Absalom describes the focus of a missional community in this way:\n\nSince Missional Communities are meant to be led by laity, running the community can be spread throughout the group so that it doesn't make a few leaders do all of the work. This sharing of the work is a key ingredient and one of the main benefits of these mid-sized groups. People don’t approach it as consumers but as participants. While some MCs meet in homes, it is not uncommon for many of them to meet in the particular mission context they are reaching into. (For instance, a MC reaching out to the homeless would meet on the streets with the homeless rather than trying to bus them to another location.)\n\nMissional Communities often have small groups within the larger body, with small-group leaders being held accountable by the Missional Community Leaders. The small groups work as places of support, challenge and closeness, as the wider MC gathering is too large for general sharing of prayer requests and the like. MCs will also gather periodically with the larger church body for what is referred to as a Celebration Service. This usually involves a time for corporate worship, teaching, stories and re-envisioning the wider community. The larger church body determines the frequency of these Celebration Services, ranging from every week to once a month. In an existing church, as opposed to a new church plant, regular Sunday services often perform this function, showcasing and celebrating what is going on across that particular church in their Missional Communities.\n\nMore often than not, when Missional Communities reach the size of 30-40 people they begin to intentionally work on starting a new MC. As before, any new MC is driven by the presence of accountable leaders who have sought God for a clear and specific mission vision. This could mean sending out two leaders to start a new community, maybe a Small Group is sent out en masse, or even half the group stays with the current MC while the other half begins a new community. However the group is multiplied, the essential element is expanding the reach of the church into a new context.\n\nMissional Communities emerged in England in the mid 1990s, primarily through the experimenting of the church St. Thomas’, Crookes in Sheffield. Although they were first experimented with in inner city London in the late 1980s, they became more fully formed when Mike Breen became the Senior Pastor of St Thomas’ Sheffield in 1994. They were described as being multiplying missionary congregations and called ‘Clusters’. The focus of the Clusters was on a group of Christians operating as a community together in mission. Leaders were encouraged to seek God for a vision for a new expression of church and, with training and support, they could be released to gather a team and pursue that dream.\n\nAs St Thomas’ grew, many MCs were planted into the urban center of the city. The church met for Sunday celebrations in a variety of large rented facilities, ending up in a huge disused nightclub, the Roxy, where the Rolling Stones had once played. In 1998, however, with only a couple of weeks notice, the building was closed down for breaking fire code, and the church was forced to scatter into their various MC gatherings for Sunday worship. It took almost a year for a new permanent home to be found – during which time the original MCs that had been sent out had doubled in number, with many people coming to know Jesus during that year when the church had been forced to go into all the city.\n\nGradually the stories about MCs started spreading, both across the UK and Northern Europe and more and more churches began using this church structure. In 2004 the Anglican church released a report, “Mission-Shaped Church,” examining the viability and success of this movement within the Anglican church, including a forward by Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams. Also, the European Church Planting Network picked up on this approach and hundreds upon hundreds of churches were planted as a result. Between 2006 and 2009, over 720 churches were planted across Europe. This was the first time this had been done in European church history.\n\nIn the mid 2000s this model of church began to spread to the United States. Early pioneers in this movement, such as Community of Joy in Phoenix, Arizona, Norman Community Church in Norman, Oklahoma and Trinity Grace in New York City were some of the first American churches to embrace this structure. Missiologists such as Eddie Gibbs at Fuller Seminary and Kent Hunter of Church Doctor Ministries began to direct both established churches and church planters to the UK to see these decentralized and reproducible Missional Communities.\n\nMike Breen, the former Senior Pastor of St. Thomas’ Sheffield who originated Missional Communities, moved to Pawleys Island, South Carolina and in 2008 began 3DM, a coaching entity that comes alongside churches of varying sizes to help them transition to this missional/discipleship model. With the emergence of 3DM within the United States, there was increased interest in these mid-sized communities. In November 2010, Mike Breen and Alex Absalom published a book entitled \"Launching Missional Communities - A Field Guide,\" where they related their experience with and approach to Missional Communities. In 2011, Reggie McNeal, a best selling Christian author, released a book detailing the world-wide rise of Missional Communities entitled, \"Missional Communities: The rise of the Post-Congregational Church.\" \n\nThe local churches choosing to make this transition vary largely in church denomination, but the largest percentage currently involved with this movement in the United States are Baptists, Lutherans, Assembly of God, Nazarene, Presbyterians, Episcopalians and non-denominational churches.\n\nMore broadly speaking, even the term Missional Community is seeping into the consciousness of the evangelical world of the United States as the first large-scale conference was held about MCs. Verge: Missional Community Conference happened in Austin, Texas on February 4–6, 2010 and sold out weeks before the conference. In 2011, Verge united with Exponential, the largest conference for church planters, where the theme was, “Missional Communities: Discovering Old Truths in New Paradigms.”. In 2012, the emergence of Missional Communities continued its prominent place at the Verge Conference, as well as seeing an expanded Missional track at the Exponential Conference and the Sync Conference at Charleston Southern University.\n\nIf MCs are “low control/high accountability,” having a church structure that invests in lay leaders and empowers them while holding them accountable is of paramount importance. Perhaps the most widely used vehicle for this are called Discipleship Huddles, which is a group of 4-10 leaders. The frequency of these groups differs based on each individual church, but generally speaking they meet at least once a month and as often as once a week. Huddles are a place where leaders are actively being discipled in a community of peers, where they are held accountable for the leadership of their groups by their Huddle leader. The two central questions of a Huddle are: 1) What is God saying to you? 2) What are you going to do about it? By seeing that leaders follow through on the plans they form from answering both of these questions, a culture is developed of both high support and high challenge. Over a period of time, this allows leaders to cultivate and sustain the character, skills and spiritual depth needed to lead.\n\nAs churches with Missional Communities tend to be far more decentralized than most Western churches, the network of these Huddles are essential to the unity and direction of the wider church. Usually the Senior Pastor will Huddle 4-10 leaders, these leaders will in turn Huddle 4-10 leaders, who in turn Huddle the leaders they are responsible for. As the church grows, multiplying Missional Communities and Small Groups, more Huddles are added as necessary. What most churches have found helpful is an agreed upon DNA in the language that all leaders use that filter down to their various groups. Most often this is the language of LifeShapes, a set of 8 Shapes that distill the teachings and principles of the Bible and Jesus, that were fashioned by Mike Breen as Missional Communities first developed and captured in his book “Building a Discipling Culture.”\n\nThere is tremendous flexibility in the forms of Missional Communities, since the intention is that they are highly accessible to the culture into which they are planted. They are anchored around the three core relationships of life – UP to God, IN to family and friends, and OUT to the wider society which they seek to be a blessing to.\nIn practice MCs do tend to certain things pretty regularly, albeit in slightly different ways according to their context, including:\n\nIn addition to providing this list, Alex Absalom comments, “We would summarize this as a 1 Corinthians 11-14 model, which seems the fullest unpacking of how a church oikos [extended household] would meet and express its life together. From what Paul writes, it is also clear that those gatherings were led in such a way that people who weren’t yet Christians could come in and be welcomed, without it throwing all the plans into confusion.”\n\nAs well, a Missional Community will go OUT together in specific missional activities, to serve and witness to their place of calling. Such events need to be regular and rhythmic, so that the group sees this as an integral part of their life together. It should be no more a ‘special’ than meeting to eat together or pray together is.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35039952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35039952", "title": "Nucleobase cation symporter-2", "text": "Nucleobase cation symporter-2\n\nThe Nucleobase:Cation Symporter-2 (NCS2) Family, also called the Nucleobase/Ascorbate Transporter (NAT) Family, consists of over 1000 sequenced proteins derived from gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria, archaea, fungi, plants and animals. The NCS2/NAT family is a member of the APC Superfamily of secondary carriers. Of the five known families of transporters that act on nucleobases, NCS2/NAT is the only one that is most widespread. Many functionally characterized members are specific for nucleobases including both purines and pyrimidines, but others are purine-specific. However, two closely related rat/human members of the family, SVCT1 and SVCT2, localized to different tissues of the body, co-transport L-ascorbate (vitamin C) and Na with a high degree of specificity and high affinity for the vitamin. Clustering of NCS2/NAT family members on the phylogenetic tree is complex, with bacterial proteins and eukaryotic proteins each falling into at least three distinct clusters. The plant and animal proteins cluster loosely together, but the fungal proteins branch from one of the three bacterial clusters forming a tighter grouping. \"E. coli\" possesses four distantly related paralogous members of the NCS2 family.\n\nProteins of the NCS2 family are 414–650 amino acyl residues in length and probably possess 14 TMSs. Lu et al. (2011) have concluded from x-ray crystallography that UraA (2.A.40.1.1) has 14 TMSs with two 7 TMS inverted repeats. Uracil is located at the interface between the two domains.\n\nUracil permease, UraA UraA with bound uracil at 2.8Å resolution .\n\nThe generalized transport reactions catalyzed by proteins of the NAT/NCS2 family are:\n\nSeveral proteins make up the NCS2/NAT family. A full list of these proteins can be found in the Transporter Classification Database. \nA few types of proteins that make up the NCS2/NAT family include:\n\n"}
{"id": "32786445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32786445", "title": "Parentification", "text": "Parentification\n\nParentification is the process of role reversal whereby a child is obliged to act as parent to their \"own\" parent. In extreme cases, the child is used to fill the void of the alienating parent's emotional life.\n\nTwo distinct modes of parentification have been identified technically: instrumental parentification and emotional parentification. Instrumental parentification involves the child completing physical tasks for the family, such as looking after a sick relative, paying bills, or providing assistance to younger siblings that would normally be provided by a parent. Emotional parentification occurs when a child or adolescent must take on the role of a confidant or mediator for (or between) parents or family members.\n\nMelitta Schmideberg noted in 1948 how emotional deprivation could lead parents to treat their children (unconsciously) as substitute parent figures. \"Spousification\" and \"parental child\" (Minuchin) offered alternative concepts exploring the same phenomenon; while the theme of intergenerational continuity in such violations of personal boundaries was further examined. Eric Berne touched on the dangers of parents and children having a symmetrical, rather than asymmetrical relationship, as when an absent spouse is replaced by the eldest child; and Virginia Satir wrote of \"the role-function discrepancy...where the son gets into a head-of-the-family role, commonly that of the father\".\n\nObject relations theory highlighted how the child's false self is called into being when it is forced prematurely to take excessive care of the parental object; and John Bowlby looked at what he called \"compulsive caregiving\" among the anxiously attached, as a result of a parent inverting the normal relationship and pressuring the child to be an attachment figure for them.\n\nAll such aspects of disturbed and inverted parenting patterns have been drawn under the umbrella of the wider phenomenon of parentification – with the result (critics suggest) that on occasion \"ironically the concept of parentification has...been as over-burdened as the child it often describes\".\n\nFor practical reasons, elder children are generally chosen for the familial \"parental\" role – very often the first-born children who were put in the anomalous role. However, gender considerations mean that sometimes the eldest boy or eldest girl was selected, even if they are not the oldest child overall, for such reasons as the preference to match the sex of the missing parent.\n\nThus where there is a disabled child in the family to be cared for, \"older siblings, especially girls, are at the greatest risk of parentification\"; where a father-figure is missing, it may be the eldest son who is forced to take on his father's responsibilities, without ever obtaining the autonomy that normally accompanies such adult roles.\n\nAlternatively a widower may put a daughter into the social and emotional role of his deceased wife – \"spousification\"; or a mother can oblige her daughter to play the caring role, in a betrayal of the child's normal expectation of love and care.\n\nNarcissistic parentification occurs when a child is forced to take on the parent's idealised projection, something which encourages a compulsive perfectionism in the child at the expense of their natural development. In a kind of pseudo-identification, the child is induced by any and all means to take on the characteristics of the parental ego ideal – a pattern that has been detected in western culture since Homer's description of the character of Achilles.\n\nThe almost inevitable byproduct of parentification is losing one's own childhood. In destructive parentification, the child in question takes on excessive responsibility in the family, without their caretaking being acknowledged and supported by others: by adopting the role of parental care-giver, the child loses their real place in the family unit and is left lonely and unsure. In extreme instances, there may be what has been called a kind of disembodiment, a narcissistic wound that threatens one's basic self-identity.\n\nIn later life, parentified children often experience anxiety over abandonment and loss, and demonstrate difficulty handling rejection and disappointment within interpersonal relationships. \n\nHowever, not all results of parentification may be negative. Some studies have hypothesized that when a child is the subject of parentification, it might sometimes result in the child, later in life, having greater psychological resilience, more individuation, a clearer sense of self, and more secure attachment styles during adulthood. These characteristics may be because the person had to adapt to changes and take on responsibilities. Crosscultural studies also point to the widespread nature of the practice of parentification, and indicate that normal as well as pathological aspects of parentification need to be taken into account.\n\n\n\"The Tale of Genji\" tells that for \"Kaoru's mother...her son's visits were her chief pleasure. Sometimes he almost seemed more like a father than a son – a fact which he was aware of and thought rather sad\".\n\nCharles Dickens' \"Angel in the house\" characters, particularly Agnes Wickfield in \"David Copperfield\", are parentified children. Agnes is forced to be the parent of her alcoholic father and seems to strive for perfection as a means of reaching the \"ego ideal\" of her deceased mother (who died upon child-birth). Agnes marries late, has relationship and intimacy problems (she has a hard time expressing her love for David until he reveals his own love for her), and has some self-defeating attitudes; in one scene she blames her own father's misfortunes on herself. However, she proves to be resilient, resourceful, responsible and even potentially career-driven (she forms her own school). She also manages to marry the protagonist David and the two live happily together for 10 years with children by the end of the novel.\n\nThe theme of parentification has also been explored in the \"Twilight\" series, with particular (but not exclusive) reference to the character of Bella Swan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32736779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32736779", "title": "Peak car", "text": "Peak car\n\nPeak car (also peak car use or peak travel) is a hypothesis that motor vehicle distance traveled per capita, predominantly by private car, has peaked and will now fall in a sustained manner. The theory was developed as an alternative to the prevailing market saturation model, which suggested that car use would saturate and then remain reasonably constant, or to GDP-based theories which predict that traffic will increase again as the economy improves, linking recent traffic reductions to the Great Recession of 2008.\n\nThe theory was proposed following reductions, which have now been observed in Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Iceland, Japan (early 1990s), New Zealand, Sweden, the United Kingdom (many cities from about 1994) and the United States. Traffic into London fell by 28% between 1994 and 2003 (prior to the introduction of the London congestion charge). A study by Volpe Transportation in 2013 noted that average miles driven by individuals in the United States, has been declining, from per month in 2004 to in July 2012, and that the decline had continued since the recent upturn in the US economy.\n\nA number of prominent academics have written in support of the theory, including Emeritus Professor Phil Goodwin, formerly Director of the transport research groups at Oxford University and UCL, and Professor David Metz, a former Chief Scientist of the UK Department of Transport. The theory is disputed by the UK Department for Transport, which predicts that road traffic in the United Kingdom will grow by 50% over the coming 25 years and Professor Stephen Glaister, Director of the RAC Foundation, who say traffic will start increasing again as the economy improves. Unlike peak oil, a theory based on a reduction in the ability to extract oil due to resource depletion, peak car is attributed to more complex and less understood causes.\n\nThe idea that car use would eventually reach a saturation level and stop growing further seems to have been around since the 1930s. In Traffic in Towns, a report produced in 1963 for the UK Ministry of Transport, Professor Sir Colin Buchanan suggested that traffic would saturate early in the 21st century. It has certainly been used in official traffic forecasting since the 1970s, for example in a UK Government study by Tulpule (1973) which forecast that car ownership would reach its maximum level by about 2010, with car use showing little further growth after that point.\n\nIn a series of international comparisons starting in 1993 and continuing until his death in 2011, the American researcher Lee Schipper and his colleagues noted that car traffic growth had slowed or ceased in a number of developed economies.\n\nThe 'peak car' hypothesis was proposed after declines in traffic during the morning peak period were observed from the mid 1990s in some places and at a national level since about 2008. \"Local Transport Today\", a professional transport journal in the United Kingdom that the number \"peak car traffic\" entering Britain's town and city centres during the morning peak hours had declined significantly over the previous ten years; of 21 areas studied all except Leeds had seen falls. Traffic into London during the morning peak period had fallen 28% between 1994 and 2003 when the London congestion charge was introduced and a further 12% by 2004. Inbound car trip into Birmingham during the morning peak period had fallen by 29% between 1995 and 2003.\n\nBetween June and September 2010 Professor Phil Goodwin published a series of articles in the UK professional transport press suggesting that data showed not merely a plateau in vehicle miles driven but rather a decline in overall automobile usage per capita. These articles were later compiled and updated in a journal article by Goodwin, published in 2011.\n\nDavid Metz, of University College London and former Chief Scientist of the UK Department of Transport noted that \"peak car use came and went [in the UK] at least 15 years ago, when none of us noticed\". He then published articles in 2010 and 2012 suggesting that the Department's forecasts of growth were erroneous because in the UK a saturated peak level had already been reached.\n\nIn November 2010 by Millard-Ball and Schipper presented data confirming the trend in cities in eight nations: United States, Canada, Sweden, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Japan and Australia. Newman and Kenworthy published an article in June 2011 suggesting that the effect was also valid for Australia.\n\nBy 2016, several papers have cast doubt on the peak car phenomenon, demonstrating that economic and sociodemographic factors account for most or all of the observed slowdowns. Recent statistics in the US show total vehicle-miles traveled (VMT) increasing after several years of decline, although per-capita VMT remains below its all-time high.\n\nThere is speculation about causes of a decline in automobile usage. Analysts such as Newman as well as views expressed in the journal edited by Melia entitled \"World Transport Policy and Practice\" point to various interrelated causes. Factors include:\n\n\nOne analyst explained about changing attitudes of young people:\n\nAnother elaborated about the \"saturation of demand\" hypothesis:\n\nThe proposition that car usage has peaked has been disputed regarding vehicle usage in the United Kingdom. In December 2010, Stephen Glaister, the Director of the RAC Foundation, suggested that total traffic has grown more or less as a straight line since the 1950s and such growth will recommence when economic conditions improve; in 2011, the UK Department for Transport predicted a 50% growth in traffic in the coming 25 years. In addition, a corroborating view by Paul Watters suggested that car usage will continue to be important in Britain, and that there won't be “shattering change” by 2020. Scholars studying transport and socio-technical transitions have elaborated possible future scenarios for car use in England and the Netherlands.\n\nThe advent of autonomous cars is likely to accelerate the decline in car ownership. A recent case study by the OECD International Transport Forum suggested Lisbon could maintain current levels of mobility with an autonomous car share fleet one tenth the size of its current vehicle fleet.\n\n\nThe city of Hamburg in its so-called \"Green Network Plan\", is considering ways of phasing out automobile traffic in the city center over the next two decades by increasing public transportation and adding special routes for cyclists and people on foot.\n\nOne report suggested driving in the United Kingdom has been declining since 1990. The number of 17- to 20-year-olds with driving licences declined from 48% during the early-1990s to 35% in 2011, according to one report. Traffic by cars and taxis has declined since 2007. One report suggested renewed growth in rail travel, such that there was a \"rail renaissance\" underway. The City of London has been experiencing a fall in the number of cars on the roads.\n\nA report in \"Time Magazine\" suggested Americans are \"driving less and less each year.\" It noted that fewer Americans were \"commuting solo\" to work. Road congestion nationwide declined by 27% in 2011. There is some evidence of a generational shift. For example, one 24-year-old with a car moved to Washington, D.C. for work purposes but did not bring her car, and she explained:\n\nAccording to transportation consultant Roy Kienitz, driving habits began to change in 2004 before the 2007-2010 recession started.\n\nDeclines of total 'vehicle kilometers traveled' (vkt) in selected cities as reported in the research:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24354", "title": "Pharmacology", "text": "Pharmacology\n\nPharmacology is the branch of biology concerned with the study of drug action, where a drug can be broadly defined as any man-made, natural, or endogenous (from within the body) molecule which exerts a biochemical or physiological effect on the cell, tissue, organ, or organism (sometimes the word pharmacon is used as a term to encompass these endogenous and exogenous bioactive species). More specifically, it is the study of the interactions that occur between a living organism and chemicals that affect normal or abnormal biochemical function. If substances have medicinal properties, they are considered pharmaceuticals.\n\nThe field encompasses drug composition and properties, synthesis and drug design, molecular and cellular mechanisms, organ/systems mechanisms, signal transduction/cellular communication, molecular diagnostics, interactions, toxicology, chemical biology, therapy, and medical applications and antipathogenic capabilities. The two main areas of pharmacology are pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics. Pharmacodynamics studies the effects of a drug on biological systems, and Pharmacokinetics studies the effects of biological systems on a drug. In broad terms, pharmacodynamics discusses the chemicals with biological receptors, and pharmacokinetics discusses the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) of chemicals from the biological systems. Pharmacology is not synonymous with pharmacy and the two terms are frequently confused. Pharmacology, a biomedical science, deals with the research, discovery, and characterization of chemicals which show biological effects and the elucidation of cellular and organismal function in relation to these chemicals. In contrast, pharmacy, a health services profession, is concerned with application of the principles learned from pharmacology in its clinical settings; whether it be in a dispensing or clinical care role. In either field, the primary contrast between the two are their distinctions between direct-patient care, for pharmacy practice, and the science-oriented research field, driven by pharmacology.\n\nThe origins of clinical pharmacology date back to the Middle Ages in Avicenna's \"The Canon of Medicine\", Peter of Spain's \"Commentary on Isaac\", and John of St Amand's \"Commentary on the Antedotary of Nicholas\". Clinical pharmacology owes much of its foundation to the work of William Withering. Pharmacology as a scientific discipline did not further advance until the mid-19th century amid the great biomedical resurgence of that period. Before the second half of the nineteenth century, the remarkable potency and specificity of the actions of drugs such as morphine, quinine and digitalis were explained vaguely and with reference to extraordinary chemical powers and affinities to certain organs or tissues. The first pharmacology department was set up by Rudolf Buchheim in 1847, in recognition of the need to understand how therapeutic drugs and poisons produced their effects.\n\nEarly pharmacologists focused on natural substances, mainly plant extracts. Pharmacology developed in the 19th century as a biomedical science that applied the principles of scientific experimentation to therapeutic contexts. Today pharmacologists use genetics, molecular biology, biochemistry, and other advanced tools to transform information about molecular mechanisms and targets into therapies directed against disease, defects or pathogens, and create methods for preventative care, diagnostics, and ultimately personalized medicine.\n\nThe discipline of pharmacology can be divided into many sub disciplines each with a specific focus.\n\nClinical pharmacology is the basic science of pharmacology with an added focus on the application of pharmacological principles and methods in the medical clinic and towards patient care and outcomes.\n\nNeuropharmacology is the study of the effects of medication on central and peripheral nervous system functioning.\n\nPsychopharmacology, also known as behavioral pharmacology, is the study of the effects of medication on the psyche (psychology), observing changed behaviors of the body and mind, and how molecular events are manifest in a measurable behavioral form. Psychopharmacology is an interdisciplinary field which studies behavioral effects of psychoactive drugs. It incorporates approaches and techniques from neuropharmacology, animal behavior and behavioral neuroscience, and is interested in the behavioral and neurobiological mechanisms of action of psychoactive drugs. Another goal of behavioral pharmacology is to develop animal behavioral models to screen chemical compounds with therapeutic potentials. People in this field (called behavioral pharmacologists) typically use small animals (e.g. rodents) to study psychotherapeutic drugs such as antipsychotics, antidepressants and anxiolytics, and drugs of abuse such as nicotine, cocaine and methamphetamine. Ethopharmacology (not to be confused with ethnopharmacology) is a term which has been in use since the 1960s and derives from the Greek word ἦθος \"ethos\" meaning character and \"pharmacology\" the study of drug actions and mechanism.\n\nCardiovascular pharmacology is the study of the effects of drugs on the entire cardiovascular system, including the heart and blood vessels.\n\nPharmacogenetics is clinical testing of genetic variation that gives rise to differing response to drugs.\n\nPharmacogenomics is the application of genomic technologies to drug discovery and further characterization of older drugs.\n\nPharmacoepidemiology is the study of the effects of drugs in large numbers of people.\n\nSafety pharmacology specialises in detecting and investigating potential undesirable pharmacodynamic effects of new chemical entities (NCEs) on physiological functions in relation to exposure in the therapeutic range and above.\n\nSystems pharmacology is the coding system principles in the field of pharmacology.\n\nToxicology is the study of the adverse effects, molecular targets, and characterization of drugs or any chemical substance in excess (including those beneficial in lower doses).\n\nTheoretical pharmacology is a relatively new and rapidly expanding field of research activity in which many of the techniques of computational chemistry, in particular computational quantum chemistry and the method of molecular mechanics, are proving to be of great value. Theoretical pharmacologists aim at rationalizing the relation between the activity of a particular drug, as observed experimentally, and its structural features as derived from computer experiments. They aim to find structure—activity relations. Furthermore, on the basis of the structure of a given organic molecule, the theoretical pharmacologist aims at predicting the biological activity of new drugs that are of the same general type as existing drugs. More ambitiously, it aims to predict entirely new classes of drugs, tailor-made for specific purposes.\n\nPosology is the study of how medicines are dosed. This depends upon various factors including age, climate, weight, sex, elimination rate of drug, genetic polymorphism and time of administration. It is derived from the Greek words πόσος \"posos\" meaning \"how much?\" and -λογία \"-logia\" \"study of\".\n\nEnvironmental pharmacology is a new discipline. Focus is being given to understand gene–environment interaction, drug-environment interaction and toxin-environment interaction. There is a close collaboration between environmental science and medicine in addressing these issues, as healthcare itself can be a cause of environmental damage or remediation. Human health and ecology are intimately related. Demand for more pharmaceutical products may place the public at risk through the destruction of species. The entry of chemicals and drugs into the aquatic ecosystem is a more serious concern today. In addition, the production of some illegal drugs pollutes drinking water supply by releasing carcinogens. This field is intimately linked with Public Health fields.\n\nExperimental pharmacology involves the study of pharmacology through bioassay, to test the efficacy and potency of a drug.\n\nDental pharmacology relates to the study of drugs commonly used in the treatment of dental disease.\n\nThe study of chemicals requires intimate knowledge of the biological system affected. With the knowledge of cell biology and biochemistry increasing, the field of pharmacology has also changed substantially. It has become possible, through molecular analysis of receptors, to design chemicals that act on specific cellular signaling or metabolic pathways by affecting sites directly on cell-surface receptors (which modulate and mediate cellular signaling pathways controlling cellular function).\n\nA chemical has, from the pharmacological point-of-view, various properties. Pharmacokinetics describes the effect of the body on the chemical (e.g. half-life and volume of distribution), and pharmacodynamics describes the chemical's effect on the body (desired or toxic).\n\nWhen describing the pharmacokinetic properties of the chemical that is the active ingredient or active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), pharmacologists are often interested in \"L-ADME\":\n\nMedication is said to have a narrow or wide \"therapeutic index\" or \"therapeutic window\". This describes the ratio of desired effect to toxic effect. A compound with a narrow therapeutic index (close to one) exerts its desired effect at a dose close to its toxic dose. A compound with a wide therapeutic index (greater than five) exerts its desired effect at a dose substantially below its toxic dose. Those with a narrow margin are more difficult to dose and administer, and may require therapeutic drug monitoring (examples are warfarin, some antiepileptics, aminoglycoside antibiotics). Most anti-cancer drugs have a narrow therapeutic margin: toxic side-effects are almost always encountered at doses used to kill tumors.\n\nDevelopment of medication is a vital concern to medicine, but also has strong economical and political implications. To protect the consumer and prevent abuse, many governments regulate the manufacture, sale, and administration of medication. In the United States, the main body that regulates pharmaceuticals is the Food and Drug Administration and they enforce standards set by the United States Pharmacopoeia. In the European Union, the main body that regulates pharmaceuticals is the EMA and they enforce standards set by the European Pharmacopoeia.\n\nThe metabolic stability and the reactivity of a library of candidate drug compounds have to be assessed for drug metabolism and toxicological studies. Many methods have been proposed for quantitative predictions in drug metabolism; one example of a recent computational method is SPORCalc. If the chemical structure of a medicinal compound is altered slightly, this could slightly or dramatically alter the medicinal properties of the compound depending on the level of alteration as it relates to the structural composition of the substrate or receptor site on which it exerts its medicinal effect, a concept referred to as the structural activity relationship (SAR). This means that when a useful activity has been identified, chemists will make many similar compounds called analogues, in an attempt to maximize the desired medicinal effect(s) of the compound. This development phase can take anywhere from a few years to a decade or more and is very expensive.\n\nThese new analogues need to be developed. It needs to be determined how safe the medicine is for human consumption, its stability in the human body and the best form for delivery to the desired organ system, like tablet or aerosol. After extensive testing, which can take up to 6 years, the new medicine is ready for marketing and selling.\n\nAs a result of the long time required to develop analogues and test a new medicine and the fact that of every 5000 potential new medicines typically only one will ever reach the open market, this is an expensive way of doing things, often costing over 1 billion dollars. To recoup this outlay pharmaceutical companies may do a number of things:\n\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is responsible for creating guidelines for the approval and use of drugs. The FDA requires that all approved drugs fulfill two requirements:\n\nGaining FDA approval usually takes several years. Testing done on animals must be extensive and must include several species to help in the evaluation of both the effectiveness and toxicity of the drug. The dosage of any drug approved for use is intended to fall within a range in which the drug produces a therapeutic effect or desired outcome.\n\nThe safety and effectiveness of prescription drugs in the U.S. is regulated by the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987.\n\nThe Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) has a similar role in the UK.\n\nStudents of pharmacology are trained as biomedical scientists, studying the effects of drugs on living organisms. This can lead to new drug discoveries, as well as a better understanding of the way in which the human body works.\n\nStudents of pharmacology must have detailed working knowledge of aspects in physiology, pathology and chemistry. During a typical degree they will cover areas such as (but not limited to) biochemistry, cell biology, basic physiology, genetics and the Central Dogma, medical microbiology, neuroscience, and depending on the department's interests, bio-organic chemistry, or chemical biology.\n\nModern Pharmacology is highly interdisciplinary. Graduate programs accept students from most biological and chemical backgrounds. With the increasing drive towards biophysical and computational research to describe systems, pharmacologists may even consider themselves mainly physical scientists. In many instances, Analytical Chemistry is closely related to the studies and needs of pharmacological research. Therefore, many institutions will include pharmacology under a Chemistry or Biochemistry Department, especially if a separate Pharmacology Dept. does not exist. What makes an institutional department independent of another, or exist in the first place, is usually an artifact of historical times.\n\nWhereas a pharmacy student will eventually work in a pharmacy dispensing medications, a pharmacologist will typically work within a laboratory setting. Careers for a pharmacologist include academic positions (medical and non-medical), governmental positions, private industrial positions, science writing, scientific patents and law, consultation, biotech and pharmaceutical employment, the alcohol industry, food industry, forensics/law enforcement, public health, and environmental/ecological sciences.\n\nThe word \"pharmacology\" is derived from Greek , \"pharmakon\", \"drug, poison, spell\" and , \"-logia\" \"study of\", \"knowledge of\" (cf. the etymology of \"pharmacy\").\n\n"}
{"id": "44527869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44527869", "title": "Prohibition of Unlawful Assembly (Interference with the Freedom of Matrimonial Alliances) Bill, 2011", "text": "Prohibition of Unlawful Assembly (Interference with the Freedom of Matrimonial Alliances) Bill, 2011\n\nProhibition of Unlawful Assembly (Interference with the Freedom of Matrimonial Alliances) Bill, 2011 is a proposed legislation in India which intends to check honor killings. It aims to criminalise the intimidation of consenting adults by kangaroo courts for same-gotra marriages, inter-caste, inter-community and inter-religious marriages.\n\nThe first draft was presented by the Law Commission of India on 20 January 2012. The commission had also released a consultation paper on khap panchayats and honour killings, and sought public opinion on it. The commission’s consultation paper had rejected the government’s proposal that Indian Penal Code should be amended to bring honour killing under Section 300. The commission said that although the offences were already covered by the Indian Penal Code, there was nothing to prevent such assemblies from happening.\n\nThe proposed bill seeks to prohibit any person or group of persons to gather and adjudicate or condemn any marriage, which is not prohibited by law, on the claims that it brings dishonour of a caste, locality or community.\n\nMarriage, as defined by the draft, also includes proposed and intended marriages. The district collector and magistrate will be given the responsibility to protect the targeted persons and prevents such illegal gatherings. Criminal intimidation will have the same definition as under the Section 503 of the Indian Penal Code.\n\nThe offences under it will be cognisable, non-bailable and non-compoundable. The trials will be decided by a sessions judge or an additional session judge. Special courts which would be set by states in consultation with the High Courts will have the power of a session court. The courts will also be able to take sou motu cognisance of the case. The offences will carry a maximum of three years imprisonment and a fine of .\n\n"}
{"id": "475304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=475304", "title": "Psychohistory (fictional)", "text": "Psychohistory (fictional)\n\nPsychohistory is a fictional science in Isaac Asimov's \"Foundation\" universe which combines history, sociology, and mathematical statistics to make general predictions about the future behavior of very large groups of people, such as the Galactic Empire. It was first introduced in the four short stories (1942–1944) which would later be collected as the 1951 novel \"Foundation\".\n\nPsychohistory depends on the idea that, while one cannot foresee the actions of a particular individual, the laws of statistics as applied to large groups of people could predict the general flow of future events. Asimov used the analogy of a gas: An observer has great difficulty in predicting the motion of a single molecule in a gas, but with the kinetic theory can predict the mass action of the gas to a high level of accuracy. Asimov applied this concept to the population of his fictional Galactic Empire, which numbered one quintillion. The character responsible for the science's creation, Hari Seldon, established two axioms:\n\nEbling Mis added these axioms\n\nGolan Trevize in Foundation and Earth added this axiom\n\nAsimov presents the Prime Radiant, a device designed by Hari Seldon and built by Yugo Amaryl, as storing the psychohistorical equations showing the future development of humanity.\n\nThe Prime Radiant projects the equations onto walls in some unexplained manner, but it does not cast shadows, thus allowing workers easy interaction. Control operates through the power of the mind, allowing the user to zoom in to details of the equations, and to change them. One can make annotations, but by convention all amendments remain anonymous.\n\nA student destined for speakerhood has to present an amendment to the plan. Five different boards then check the mathematics rigorously. Students have to defend their proposals against concerted and merciless attacks. After two years the change gets reviewed again. If after the second examination it still passes muster the contribution becomes part of the Seldon Plan.\n\nThe Radiant, as well as being interactive, employs a type of colour-coding to equations within itself for ready comprehension by Psychohistorians.\n\n\nOther colours have been imagined by fans, and mentioned by Asimov, such as:\n\n\nIn his later career, Asimov described some historical (pre-Seldon) origins of psychohistory. In \"The Robots of Dawn\" (1983), which takes place thousands of years before \"Foundation\" (1951), he describes roboticist Han Fastolfe's attempts to create the science based on careful observation of others, particularly of his daughter Vasilia. \"Prelude to Foundation\" (1988) suggests that one of Fastolfe's robots, R. Daneel Olivaw, manipulated Seldon into practical application of this science.\n\nThe fact that Seldon established a Second Foundation of mental-science adepts to oversee his Seldon Plan might suggest that even Seldon himself had doubts about the ultimate ability of a purely mathematical approach to predicting historical processes, and that he recognized that the development of psychic skills, such as those used by the Mule, had the ability to invalidate the assumptions underlying his models, though he did not (and could not) predict the appearance of the Mule himself. The Seldon methodology might therefore only work at a certain level of species-development, and would over time become less useful.\n\nPsychohistory has one basic, underlying limitation which Asimov postulated for the first time on the last page of the final book in the \"Foundation\" series: psychohistory only functions in a galaxy populated only by humans. In Asimov's Foundation series, humans form the only sentient race that developed in the entire Milky Way Galaxy. Seldon developed psychohistory to predict the actions of large groups of \"humans\". Even robots technically fall under the umbrella of psychohistory, because humans built them, and they thus represent more or less a human \"action\", or at least, possess a thought-framework similar enough to that of their human creators that psychohistory can predict their actions. However, psychohistory cannot predict the actions of a sentient alien race; their psychology may differ so much from that of humans that normal psychohistory cannot understand or predict their actions.\n\nThe end of the series offered two possibilities:\n\n\nOn September 25, 1987, Asimov gave an interview to Terry Gross on her National Public Radio program, \"Fresh Air\".\nIn it, Gross asked him about psychohistory:\n\n\nPolymath Adolphe Quetelet developed in the 19th century what he called \"social physics\". Quetelet studied the statistical laws underlying the behaviour of what he called \"average man\".\n\nSome individuals and groups, inspired by Asimov's psychohistory, seriously explore the possibility of a working psychohistory not unlike the one imagined by Asimov—a statistical study of history that could help in the formulation of some \"theory of history\" and perhaps become a tool of historical prediction.\n\nComplexity theory, an offshoot of chaos mathematics theory, explored by Stuart Kauffman in his books \"At Home in the Universe\" and \"Redefining the Sacred\" cover the concept of statistical modeling of sociological evolutions. The concept was also explored in \"Order Out of Chaos\" by Ilya Prigogine.\n\nAnother theory that has similarities to Psychohistory is \"Generational Dynamics\" proposed by John J. Xenakis, where he proposes, \"Generational Dynamics is a historical methodology that analyzes historical events through the flow of generations, and uses the analysis to forecast future events by comparing today's generational attitudes to those of the past\". Essentially, generations immediately after a major crisis event (civil war, world war) will be unwilling to live through such events again and will be risk-averse. Generations after them may well be aware of previous crisis events, but will be more risk-tolerant, as they have not been exposed to the crisis themselves. Xenakis states that this allows one to predict future crisis events by analyzing the current generation's outlooks.\n\nFor similar ideas see Peter Turchin's WAR AND PEACE AND WAR: The Life Cycles of Imperial Nations - his science is called cliodynamics.\n\nNathan Eagle and Alex Pentland (among others) have developed useful techniques for predicting human behavior through statistical analysis of smartphone data.\n\nAt the 67th science-fiction world convention in Montreal, Paul Krugman, the Nobel laureate in Economics, mentioned Hari Seldon, a central character in Foundation who was a psychohistorian, as his inspiration to study Economics since it is the closest thing to Psychohistory, according to P. Krugman.\n\nThe Living Earth Simulator, a platform of the proposed FuturICT project, aims to simulate social and economic developments on a global scale in order to anticipate and predict global phenomena, like for example financial crisis. For similar ideas see Dan Braha's work on predicting the behavior of global civil unrest. This work demonstrates, based on historical records and mathematical modeling, the existence of universal patterns of collective unrest across countries and regions.\n\nThe evolving field of behavioral economics embodies elements of Asimov's psychohistory.\n\nLooking at several revealed conspiracies, the estimated chance of a conspiracy being busted is 4 parts per million per year per conspirator, combining history, sociology, and mathematical statistics to make general predictions about the future behavior of very large groups of people.\n\nThe 3 February 2017 issue of Science has a special section \"Prediction and Its Limits\". This section has articles on many mathematical techniques of predicting human behavior, and explicitly compares them to Asimov's psychohistory.\n\nPsychohistory appears in the \"Traveller\" science-fiction role-playing game, released in 1977. The alien race known as the Hivers use extensive manipulation of other cultures based on psychohistorical data to achieve their own ends. Rumors ascribe the assassination of the Third Imperium's Emperor Strephon to a Hiver manipulation based on psychohistorical data indicating the eventual fall of the Third Imperium. Humans in the setting have also attempted to use psychohistory, but with less skill or success; the Psionic Suppressions (which turned public opinion within the human Imperium against those with paranormal mental abilities, forcing them to go into hiding) resulted, unknown to most, from an experiment in psychohistory that got out of control and went much farther than the experimenters intended.\n\nSome literary critics have described Asimov's psychohistory as a reformulation of Karl Marx's theory of history (historical materialism), though Asimov denied any direct influence. Arguably, Asimov's psychohistory departs significantly from Marx's general theory of history based on modes of production (as distinct from Marx's model of the capitalist economy, where \"natural laws\" work themselves out with \"iron necessity\") in that psychohistory is predictive (if only in the sense of involving precisely stated probabilities), and in that psychohistory is extrapolated from individual psychology and even from physics.\nPsychohistory also has echoes of modernization theory and of work in the social sciences that by the 1960s would lead to attempts at large-scale social prediction and control such as Project Camelot.\n\n"}
{"id": "37104270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37104270", "title": "Quintus Aemilius Lepidus", "text": "Quintus Aemilius Lepidus\n\nQuintus Aemilius Lepidus (possibly Quintus Aemilius Lepidus Barbula) (fl. 1st century BC) was a Roman senator and military officer who was appointed consul in 21 BC.\n\nQuintus Aemilius Lepidus was a member of the Patrician \"gens Aemilia\" and the son of Manius Aemilius Lepidus, who was consul in 66 BC. He was a supporter of Marcus Antonius.\n\nIt is assumed that Quintus Aemilius Lepidus was the “Barbula” referred to in Appian’s \"Civil Wars\". In it, Appian recounts that a certain Marcus (assumed to be Marcus Lollius) was a legate of Marcus Junius Brutus the Younger who, after the Battle of Philippi, had been proscribed. Hiding himself as a slave, he was purchased by Lepidus, whose identity was then revealed by a friend in Rome. Lepidus went to Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa, who interceded on his behalf with Octavianus, who then ensured that Lollius’ name was removed from the proscription lists.\n\nAround 40-38 BC, Lepidus was a Monetalis for Marcus Antonius in Pergamum, minting cistophori on behalf of Antony. Then, in 31 BC, he fought alongside Antony at the Battle of Actium, but was captured. He was released only when Marcus Lollius interceded for him before Octavianus, thereby returning the favour.\n\nIn the year 21 BC, a second consular position was made available after Augustus decided not to nominate anyone for the office. After a bitter and rancorous election and lengthy disputes with his only competitor, Lucius Junius Silanus, which reached the point that many people were asking for Augustus to return to put an end to it, Lepidus was elected consul, serving alongside his old friend Marcus Lollius. Together, they oversaw the restoration of the Pons Fabricius, one of the bridges that spanned the Tiber River, which had been damaged in the floods of the year before.\n\nLepidus is recorded as one of the Quindecimviri sacris faciundis who was part of the quorum which participated in the Secular Games of 17 BC; he was probably a member of this group during the civil wars. Finally in about 15 BC, he was the proconsular governor of Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "40906017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40906017", "title": "Slobodan Penezić", "text": "Slobodan Penezić\n\nSlobodan \"Krcun\" Penezić (; 2 July 1918 – 6 November 1964) was a Yugoslav communist politician who was the Prime Minister and Minister of Internal Affairs of the Socialist Republic of Serbia. During his heyday, he was Josip Broz Tito's chief of secret police in Serbia.\n\nHe was also notable for assisting in the arrest of Draža Mihailović. Penezić was awarded the Order of the People's Hero on 5 July 1952.\n\nPenezić was a member of the Central Committee of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia and the League of Communists of Serbia Executive Committee. He also was chairman of the Executive Council of the Serbian parliament.\n\nOn 6 November 1964 Penezić and were killed in a car accident when their car skidded off a wet road into a tree. Those having doubts about the official version included his wife but his son considered finding out hard facts was now impossible.\n"}
{"id": "34154792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34154792", "title": "Small carbonaceous fossil", "text": "Small carbonaceous fossil\n\nSmall carbonaceous fossils (SCFs) are sub-millimetric organic remains of organisms preserved in sedimentary strata.\n\nThe category of fossils includes robust or thick-walled entities such as plant spores, acritarchs and chitinozoa, but the most interesting components are fragile remnants of animals that can only be extracted through a delicate maceration technique. SCFs are relatively widespread and abundant, and can potentially preserve both mineralized and non-mineralized parts of organisms. This undertapped record of the evolutionary processes occurring in the Palaeozoic cirtcumvents the biases inherent in the shelly fossil record.\n\nSCFs are typically preserved in fine-grained siliciclastic rocks, and are too small to be fruitfully examined on bedding planes. Instead, they are extracted by dissolving the rock in acid. Traditional palynological preparations involve high-energy steps such as centrifuging that destroy large and fragile fossils. In the more delicate technique pioneered by Butterfield, individual microfossils are picked from sieved acid residues by hand. The sieving stage removes crystalline residue, making it easier to extract fossils, but introduces a filter: the smallest fossils (<~40 µm) pass through the sieve and are lost. Once extracted, fossils can be mounted for light or scanning electron microscopy: transmitted light illuminates internal microstructures, whereas SEM picks out surface features.\n\nSCFs are best preserved in anoxic conditions with limited thermal maturity; the presence of oxygen is particularly deleterious at high temperatures.\n\nTraditional palynological methods tend to extract plant spores and resistant microfossils such as acritarchs and chitinozoa. The delicate approach can also recover fragments of animals: scales from priapulid worms, \"Wiwaxia\" sclerites, and arthropod feeding parts, for example. These organisms are not represented in the conventional (shelly) fossil record, so the SCF record provides data on their distribution and evolution that would not otherwise be available. Lagerstatten such as the Burgess Shale provide isolated snapshots of Palaeozoic life, whereas the SCF record provides a more continuous record, albeit blighted by the fragmentary (and consequently enigmatic) nature of many of its constituents. As such, the SCFs can fill in the details of the fossil record: for instance, highlighting the rapid nature of the Cambrian explosion.\n"}
{"id": "43762310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43762310", "title": "Sweet Bunch", "text": "Sweet Bunch\n\nSweet Bunch () is a 1983 Greek dramatic experimental independent underground art film directed by Nikos Nikolaidis. The film, produced by Vergeti Brothers and the Greek Film Center, is the second part of the \"Years of Cholera\" trilogy beginning with \"The Wretches Are Still Singing\" (1979) and ending with \"The Loser Takes It All\" (2002) which deals with the last decades of the twentieth century. The original Greek title directly references the Greek title of the 1969 Sam Peckinpah film \"The Wild Bunch\" (). The film uses as background music the 1958 song \"Sugartime\" written by Charlie Phillips and Odis Echols as well as the 1940 song \"Sweet Mara\" () composed by Leo Rapitis to lyrics by Kostas Kofiniotis which was performed by Kakia Mendri. It was distributed by the Greek Film Center in Greece and by Restless Wind abroad.\n\nA group of four misfits, Argyris, Andreas, Marina, and Sofia, live together in a house. Andreas just got out of jail. All four have become disillusioned with life and have lost any reason to live or die. They try all criminal experiences with each member of the group choosing a different activity to experiment in: frequenting expansive restaurants and leaving without paying, shoplifting, starring in pornographic films, and creating an anti-state organization. The authorities put them under surveillance, waiting for the slightest false step from any of them before acting violently. The first such misstep occurs when Sofia kills the police chief who monitors their home.\n\n\nIn October 1983, at the Thessaloniki Festival of Greek Cinema, the film won the Athens Film Critics Association Best Picture Award, executive producer, art director, set designer, and costume designer Marie-Louise Bartholomew won the Best Costume Designer Award, Andreas Andreadakis won the Best Editor Award, Marinos Athanasopoulos won the Best Sound Recordist Award, Aris Stavrou won the Best Cinematographer Award, and Takis Spiridakis won the Best Actor Special Mention Award. The Greek Film Critics Association voted this film in 2006 as the joint seventh greatest in Greek cinematic history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40667954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40667954", "title": "The Rheumatoid Arthritis Quality of Life Questionnaire", "text": "The Rheumatoid Arthritis Quality of Life Questionnaire\n\nThe Rheumatoid Arthritis Quality of Life Questionnaire (RAQoL) is a disease specific patient-reported outcome measure which determines the effect rheumatoid arthritis has on a patient’s quality of life. The RAQoL has 30 items with a yes and no response format and takes about six minutes to complete.\n\nScores on the RAQoL are a sum of all the individual item scores with a range from 0-30, with a lower score indicating better quality of life. The RAQoL is a self-assessment questionnaire, meaning patients fill out the survey themselves in order to avoid experimental error.\n\nThe RAQoL was developed by Galen Research, the University of Leeds and the Academic Hospital Maastricht, and was first published in 1997. It was the first patient completed quality of life questionnaire that focused on rheumatoid arthritis and is distinct from other questionnaires as it includes physical contact as a dimension of quality of life. Other dimensions include activities of daily living, social interaction/function, emotions, mood and recreation and pastimes.\n\nSince its development, the RAQOL has been translated into 33 languages other than Dutch and UK English. Validation studies have been performed in countries such as Sweden, Argentina and Australia in order to confirm the responsiveness and validity of the language adaptations.\n\nThe RAQoL has been used in clinical studies in order to confirm the efficacy of proposed treatments of rheumatoid arthritis. It has been utilized in order to confirm the efficacy of tocilizumab and infliximab.\n"}
{"id": "728898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=728898", "title": "Tower of Silence", "text": "Tower of Silence\n\nA Dakhma (Persian: دخمه ; Avestan:   “tower of silence”), also called a Tower of Silence, is a circular, raised structure built by Zoroastrians for excarnation – that is, for dead bodies to be exposed to carrion birds, usually vultures.\n\nZoroastrian exposure of the dead is first attested in the mid-5th century BC \"Histories\" of Herodotus, but the use of towers is first documented in the early 9th century CE. The doctrinal rationale for exposure is to avoid contact with Earth or Fire, both of which are considered sacred in the Zoroastrian religion.\n\nOne of the earliest literary descriptions of such a building appears in the late 9th-century \"Epistles of Manushchihr\", where the technical term is \"astodan\", \"ossuary\". Another technical term that appears in the 9th/10th-century texts of Zoroastrian tradition (the so-called Pahlavi books) is \"dakhmag\", for any place for the dead. This Zoroastrian Middle Persian term is a borrowing from Avestan \"dakhma\", of uncertain meaning but related to interment and commonly translated as \"grave\". In the Avesta, the term is pejorative and does not signify a construction of any kind. In the Iranian provinces of Yazd and Kerman, \"dakhma\" continues as \"deme\" or \"dema\". Yet another term that appears in the 9th/10th-century texts is \"dagdah\", \"prescribed place\". The word also appears in later Zoroastrian texts of both India and Iran, but in 20th-century India came to signify the lowest grade of temple fire. In India the term \"doongerwadi\" came into use after a Dakhma was constructed on a hill of that name.\n\nThe English language term \"Tower of Silence\" is a neologism attributed to Robert Murphy, a translator for the British colonial government of India in the early 19th century.\n\nZoroastrian tradition considers a dead body (in addition to cut hair and nail parings) to be \"nasu\", unclean, i.e. potential pollutants. Specifically, the corpse demon (Avestan: \"nasu.daeva\") was believed to rush into the body and contaminate everything it came into contact with, hence the \"Vendidad\" (an ecclesiastical code \"given against the demons\") has rules for disposing of the dead as safely as possible.\n\nTo preclude the pollution of earth or fire (see Zam and Atar respectively), the bodies of the dead are placed atop a tower and so exposed to the sun and to scavenging birds. Thus, \"putrefaction with all its concomitant evils... is most effectually prevented.\"\n\nZoroastrian ritual exposure of the dead is first known of from the writings of the mid-5th century BCE Herodotus, who observed the custom amongst Iranian expatriates in Asia Minor. In Herodotus' account (\"Histories\" i.140), the rites are said to have been \"secret\", but were first performed after the body had been dragged around by a bird or dog. The corpse was then embalmed with wax and laid in a trench.\n\nWhile the discovery of ossuaries in both eastern and western Iran dating to the 5th and 4th centuries BCE indicates that bones were isolated, that this separation occurred through ritual exposure cannot be assumed: burial mounds, where the bodies were wrapped in wax, have also been discovered. The tombs of the Achaemenid emperors at Naqsh-e Rustam and Pasargadae likewise suggest non-exposure, at least until the bones could be collected. According to legend (incorporated by Ferdowsi into his \"Shahnameh\"), Zoroaster is himself interred in a tomb at Balkh (in present-day Afghanistan).\n\nWriting on the culture of the Persians, Herodotus reports on the Persian burial customs performed by the Magi, which are kept secret. However, he writes that he knows they expose the body of male dead to dogs and birds of prey, then they cover the corpse in wax, and then it is buried.\n\nTowers are a much later invention, and are first documented in the early 9th century CE. The ritual customs surrounding that practice appear to date to the Sassanid era (3rd – 7th century CE). They are known in detail from the supplement to the \"Shayest ne Shayest\", the two \"Rivayat\" collections, and the two \"Saddar\"s.\n\nThe modern-day towers, which are fairly uniform in their construction, have an almost flat roof, with the perimeter being slightly higher than the centre. The roof is divided into three concentric rings: the bodies of men are arranged around the outer ring, women in the second circle, and children in the innermost ring. Once the bones have been bleached by the sun and wind, which can take as long as a year, they are collected in an ossuary pit at the centre of the tower, where – assisted by lime – they gradually disintegrate, and the remaining material – with run-off rainwater – runs through multiple coal and sand filters before being eventually washed out to sea. The ritual precinct may be entered only by a special class of pallbearers, called \"nusessalars\", a contraction of \"nasa.salar\", caretaker (\"-salar\") of potential pollutants (\"nasa-\").\n\nIn the Iranian Zoroastrian tradition, the towers were built atop hills or low mountains in desert locations distant from population centers. In the early twentieth century, the Iranian Zoroastrians gradually discontinued their use and began to favour burial or cremation.\n\nThe decision to change the system was accelerated by three considerations: the first problem arose with the establishment of the Dar ul-Funun medical school. Since Islam considers unnecessary dissection of corpses as a form of mutilation, thus forbidding it, there were no corpses for study available through official channels. The towers were repeatedly broken into, much to the dismay of the Zoroastrian community. Secondly, while the towers had been built away from population centers, the growth of the towns led to the towers now being within city limits. Finally, many of the Zoroastrians found the system outdated. Following long negotiations between the \"anjuman\" societies of Yazd, Kerman, and Tehran, the latter gained a majority and established a cemetery some 10 km from Tehran at Ghassr-e Firouzeh (Firouzeh's Palace). The graves were lined with rocks and plastered with cement to prevent direct contact with the earth. In Yazd and Kerman, in addition to cemeteries, orthodox Zoroastrians continued to maintain a tower until the 1970s when ritual exposure was prohibited by law.\n\nFollowing the rapid expansion of the Indian cities, the squat buildings are today in or near population centers, but separated from the metropolitan bustle by gardens or forests. In Parsi Zoroastrian tradition, exposure of the dead is also considered to be an individual's final act of charity, providing the birds with what would otherwise be destroyed.\n\nIn the late 20th century and early 21st century the population of birds of prey on the Indian subcontinent declined (see Indian vulture crisis), by 99.9% as of 2008, primarily due to diclofenac poisoning of the birds following the introduction of that drug for livestock in the 1990s, until banned for cattle by the Indian government in 2006. The few surviving birds are often unable to fully consume the bodies. In 2001, Parsi communities in India were evaluating captive breeding of vultures and the use of \"solar concentrators\" (which are essentially large mirrors) to accelerate decomposition. Some have been forced to resort to burial, as the solar collectors work only in clear weather. Vultures used to dispose of a body in minutes, and no other method has proved fully effective.\n\nThe right to use the Towers of Silence is a much-debated issue among the Parsi community (see Parsi for details). The facilities are usually managed by the \"anjuman\"s, the predominantly conservative local Zoroastrian associations (usually having five priests on a nine-member board). In accordance with Indian statutes, these associations have domestic authority over trust properties and have the right to grant or restrict entry and use, with the result that the associations frequently prohibit the use by the offspring of a \"mixed marriage\", that is, where one parent is a Parsi and the other is not.\n\nThe musical duo Twenty One Pilots center the basis of their fifth LP \"Trench\" around a fictional city known as \"Dema\" which is based on a Dakhma. Similarities between the two include the presence of vultures, dead bodies (skeletons) and the city taking the shape of an actual Dakhma, not to mention the name of the album itself comes from the very idea of the first version of Zoroastrian body disposal, thus, \"Trench\". The band even went as far as to include photos taken of / inside of a Dakhma on a cryptic website that fans used to discover details about the forthcoming album, as well as promotional art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58534149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58534149", "title": "Viktor Fokin", "text": "Viktor Fokin\n\nViktor Viktorovich Fokin (born February 19, 1935 in Novosibirsk, RSFSR - 2003), known as the \"Pensioner Maniac\" and the \"Grandfather Ripper\", was a Russian serial killer who killed at least 10 people in between 1996 and 2000.\n\nFokin was born in 1935. After graduating high school, he went to serve in the army, and began working at the Novosibirsk Semiconductor Devices Plant after his discharge. Fokin was a leader, and later became a labor veteran. In the later 1950s he married, and had children. His life turned around abruptly in 1988, when his wife died. By this time Fokin had aged considerably and suffered from hearing loss, but had a great potency that attracted women to him. During this period, he tried to improve his personal life, but then began to have sex with cheap prostitutes, tramps and alcoholics. But by the mid-1990s, Fokin became impotent, a factor which greatly worried him.\n\nThe first murder Fokin committed was in April 1996 (according to some sources in December 1995). He killed mostly women aged between 18 and 55 years, but the age did not matter much. As victims, he chose women and girls without a specific place of residence, mostly alcohol abusers and prostitutes, the choice being explained by the fact that nobody would look for these people if they disappeared. Fokin confessed that he asked his future victims for any relatives, and, as a rule, chose single women. Indeed, the remains of all nine known victims of Fokin were never identified and it was not possible to identify any of his ten known victims. The murder scenario was always the following: Fokin got acquainted with the victim in the Railway Square, brought them home, where he raped and mercilessly killed them. The murder methods were always different: some were strangled, others were drowned in the bathroom, and some stabbed. After the death of each victim, Fokin dismembered the corpse, and threw it in the garbage container.\n\nThe last murder Fokin committed was on March 5, 2000. Having dismembered a corpse in the bathroom, the remains were thrown into a trash container in Timiryazev Street near his home. During the day, a man came to the Zaeltsovskoye Police Department, who had found a bloody bag of sugar with human organs. Operative-search activities were carried out with an incredible scope: in the area where the dismembered body was found, hundreds of houses and thousands of apartments were inspected, there was intensive work with witnesses, external surveillance and ambushes were organized. Fokin was detained between March 7 and 15, 2000. When his house was searched, a lot of female items were found. At the first interrogation, he confessed to all his crimes.\n\nThe trial of Viktor Fokin took place in May 2001. The prosecutor demanded 20 years imprisonment. However, Fokin was sentenced to only 19 years imprisonment in a corrective labor colony, where he died two years later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25952840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25952840", "title": "Ya’furiyya Shia", "text": "Ya’furiyya Shia\n\nThe Ya’furiyya Shia (named for Muhammad ibn Ya’fur, to whom they were related) was a \"ghulat\" sect of Shia Islam. The sect was also referred to as the Mu’ammariyya Shia. The Ya’furiyya believed in reincarnation and a man named Mu’ammar al-Kufi to be their Lord.\n\nThe Ya’furiyya Shia had the following beliefs:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13861682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13861682", "title": "Yeti (comics species)", "text": "Yeti (comics species)\n\nThe Yeti are a number of similar fictional hidden races appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nYeti are fur-covered humanoid beings living in the Himalaya Mountains and familiarly known as \"Abominable Snowmen.\" There are three known varieties of Yeti. \n\nThe first, the so-called \"Cold People,\" were highly intelligent and had made advanced scientific developments. They were transformed into normal human beings.\n\nA far more primitive race of Yeti with human intelligence first appeared in \"Man-Thing\" vol.2, #2, but was destroyed.\n\nAn example of a third race of Yeti was encountered by Shang-Chi, and first appeared in \"Master of Kung Fu\" #124.\n"}
{"id": "2146330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2146330", "title": "Ziri ibn Manad", "text": "Ziri ibn Manad\n\nZiri ibn Manad or Ziri son of Mennad (died in 971) was the founder of the Zirid dynasty in the Berber world.\n\nZiri ibn Mennad was a chief of the Takalata branch of the Sanhajah confederation, to which the Kutama Berbers belonged. As an ally of the Fatimids, he defeated the rebellion of Abu Yazid (943–947), and was rewarded with the governorship of the western provinces, an area that roughly corresponds with modern Algeria north of the Sahara.\n\nZiri had the residence of built south of the future site of Algiers in 935. He summoned masons and joiners from M'sila and Tubna to build the fortress , which once finished was filled with scholars, merchants and lawyers. He minted money and began to pay his troops in cash. His son Buluggin ibn Ziri founded the cities of Algiers, Miliana and Medea (Lamdiya), and rebuilt the settlements destroyed in the revolt. \n\nZiri ibn Manad was killed in battle against the lord of M'sila (Ja'far Ibn 'Ali al-andalusi al-Maghrawi) in June-July 971. He was succeeded as governor by his son Buluggin ibn Ziri, who in 972 became Viceroy of Ifriqiya (972–984) when the Fatimids transferred their court to Egypt.\n"}
