{"id": "28557847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28557847", "title": "Activity-based learning in India", "text": "Activity-based learning in India\n\nActivity-based learning or ABL describes a range of pedagogical approaches to teaching. Its core premises include the requirement that learning should be based on doing some hands-on experiments and activities. The idea of activity-based learning is rooted in the common notion that children are active learners rather than passive recipients of information. If child is provided the opportunity to explore by their own and provided an optimum learning environment then the learning becomes joyful and long-lasting.\n\nActivity-based learning started sometime in 1944 around World War II when a British man David Horsburgh came to India and finally decided to settle down there. He was an innovative thinker and charismatic leader. He started teaching in Rishi Valley School. He joined the British Council and worked in Chennai and Bangalore for many years. After his voluntary retirement, he located a site in Kolar District and opened his school, Neel Bagh. Neel Bagh was based on an innovative idea of Horsburgh and known for its creative methods in teaching well-planned learning materials. With his wife Doreen and his son Nicholas, Horsburgh developed a diverse curriculum, which included music, carpentry, sewing, masonry, gardening, as well as the usual school subjects, English, mathematics, Sanskrit, and Telugu. These pedagogic materials were systematically planned, with sketches and drawings and an occasional touch of humour. Later Horsburgh created a magnificent library in Neel Baugh that was accessible to teachers and students. This initiative of Horsburgh was later proved to be one of the pioneer and milestones in ABL. In modern time ABL is the method of education followed in the Corporation schools of Chennai, from 2003, as an effort to provide special schools for children who had been freed from bonded labour.\n\nThe ABL in its contemporary form was first undertaken by the Chennai Corporation in 13 schools on a trial basis in 2003, has been adopted by all the 270 primary schools in the district. First designed and tested by the Rishi Valley School in Andhra Pradesh in the '90s, the Activity-Based Learning system has been successfully implemented in several Indian states and union territory, including Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana. Maharashtra, Chandigarh. In Tamil Nadu, UNICEF supported the Chennai Corporation to introduce the ABL methods in the Government schools. There are many organizations which cultivate and follow the principles of activity-based learning. Digantar Siksha evam Khelkud Samiti in Rajasthan, Sumavanam Village School in Andhra Pradesh, Walden's Path in Telangana and Vikasana School in Karnataka are the places which were established on the principles of activity-based learning.\n\nThe philosophy of ABL finds its antecedents in the common notion that learning can be done best when it is initiated by the surrounding environment and motivated by providing optimum opportunities to learn. A fearless and freedom to express environment always adds to best learning outcomes.\n\nUnder Activity Based learning education main focus is on child or we can say that it is one of child centered approach. It develops self-learning skill among the learners and allows a child to study according to his or her skill . Activities here can be in the form of songs, Drawings,Rhymes,Role play to teach a letter or a word, solve mathematical problems, form a sentence, understand social science or even concept of science. The learner takes report Card only after completing all the steps in a subject. If a child is absent even a single day he starts from where he left unlike in the old system and the child had to do self learning of the missed portions.\n\nThe key feature of the Activity Based Learning (ABL) method is that it uses child-friendly educational aids to foster self-learning and allows a child to study according to his or her aptitude and skill. ABL serves as one model of child-centered, child-friendly education, which is the mandate of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act (RTE) Act in India.\n\nThe Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Scheme by Government has introduced many initiative and creative methods to bring about changes in teaching method for both- Teacher as well as learners. In state of Tamil Nadu, the elementary schools have taken initiative to use methodology called Activity Based Learning through Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan.\n\nThe key feature of the ABL method is that it uses child-friendly educational aids to foster self-learning and allows a child to study according to his/her aptitude and skill. Under the system, the curriculum is divided into small units, each a group of Self Learning Materials (SLM) comprising attractively designed study cards for English, Tamil, maths, science and Social Science. When a child finishes a group of cards, he completes one \"milestone\". Activities in each milestone include games, rhymes, drawing, and songs to teach a letter or a word, form a sentence, do maths and science, or understand a concept. The child takes up an Exam Card only after completing all the milestones in a subject. \nOn a common chart, the milestones are arranged in the form of a ladder and the child knows exactly which milestone he completed in the last lesson. This is a child-friendly way to evaluate and reinforce learning. If a child is absent one day, he/she continues from where he/she left unlike in the old system where the children had to learn on their own what they missed out on.\n"}
{"id": "28895747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28895747", "title": "Adelaide von Skilondz", "text": "Adelaide von Skilondz\n\nAdelaide Andrejewa von Skilondz (also Andrejewa de Skilondz; – 5 April 1969) was a Russian operatic coloratura soprano. She was born in Saint Petersburg, where she studied singing and began her career in 1904. In 1909 she sang the role of the Queen of Shemakha in the Saint Petersburg premiere of Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov's opera \"The Golden Cockerel\". She also sang at the Berlin Hofoper until the start of World War I, at which time she moved to Stockholm, where she performed in opera up until 1920 and in concert performances until 1930. Her roles there included the Queen of the Night in Mozart's \"The Magic Flute\", the title role in Donizetti's \"Lucia di Lammermoor\", and Gilda in Verdi's \"Rigoletto\". Later she taught singing. Among her students were Kerstin Meyer, Kim Borg, Eva Gustavson, Eva Prytz, and Elisabeth Söderström. She died in Stockholm at the age of 87.\n"}
{"id": "14202007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14202007", "title": "American Association of Community Colleges", "text": "American Association of Community Colleges\n\nThe American Association of Community Colleges (AACC), headquartered in the National Center for Higher Education in Washington, D.C., is the primary advocacy organization for community colleges at the national level and works closely with directors of state offices to inform and affect state policy. In addition, AACC is a member of \"The Six\" large, presidentially based associations, and collaborates with a wide range of entities within the higher education community to monitor and influence federal policy and to collaborate on issues of common interest. The association has ongoing interaction with key federal departments and agencies including the U.S. departments of Labor, Education, Energy, Homeland Security, and Commerce and the National Science Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "13776095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13776095", "title": "American University in London", "text": "American University in London\n\nThe American University in London (AUL) is an unaccredited university located in Seven Sisters Road in London.\n\nThe AUL's business education programs have been accredited in the past by the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE), but this accreditation was suspended in April 2007. The IACBE identified need for improvement in the areas of Outcomes Assessment, Strategic Planning, Financial Resources, External Oversight, and Business and Industry Linkages.\n\nAUL is in partnership with the Geneva Business School.\n\nOn 13 January 2006, AUL was fined for violations of the Trade Descriptions Act 1968 and Business Names Act 1985 for misleading prospective students by deceptively representing itself as a university in spite of lacking proper accreditation. An Islington Councillor noted: \"It is important that prospective students thoroughly research education providers or they could waste a lot of time and money pursuing a worthless qualification.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42121865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42121865", "title": "Black Girls Code", "text": "Black Girls Code\n\nBlack Girls Code (BGC) is a not-for-profit organization that focuses on providing technology education for African-American girls. Kimberly Bryant, an electrical engineer who had worked in biotech for over 20 years, founded Black Girls Code in 2011 to rectify the underrepresentation of female African-Americans in the technology industry. The organization offers programs in computer programming, coding, as well as website, robot, and mobile application-building, with the goal of providing African-American youth with the skills to occupy some of the 1.4 million computing job openings expected to be available in the U.S. in 2020.\n\nBryant was inspired to start BGC after her gamer daughter, Kai, attended a computing summer camp and was disappointed in the experience. Her daughter was one in a handful of girls who were at the camp and was the only African American girl present. She also noted that the boys at the camp were given much more attention from the counselors than the few girls there. In an interview with \"Ebony\", Bryant stated, \"I wanted to find a way to engage and interest my daughter in becoming a digital creative instead of just a consumer, and I did not find other programs that were targeted to girls like her from underrepresented communities.\"\n\nBGC has become a rapidly growing phenomenon, quickly expanding in the USA and abroad. Headquartered in Bayview-Hunters Point, San Francisco, the organization grew to 2,000 students by August 2013 within the 7 established institutions operating in 7 States across the US, as well as in Johannesburg, South Africa. BGC seeks to double their reach by adding chapters in the US and Africa over the next two years. BGC also hosts bilingual workshops in partnership with Latino Startup Alliance. BGC's ultimate goal is \"to grow to train 1 million girls by 2050 and become the 'girl scouts' of technology.\" \n\nBGC depends on a vast body of volunteers to design and conduct workshop classes. Professionals from the IT sector share their expertise with the young students, helping them get acquainted with the fundamentals of software design in languages such as Scratch or Ruby on Rails. After school activities are alternated with day-long workshops; an extended course is held during the summer. \n\nBGC primarily relies on donations to fund its activities; 75% students are currently on scholarships. \n\nThe motto of the Black Girls Code is: \"Imagine. Build. Create. – Imagine a world where everyone is given the tools to succeed, and then help us build ways for everyone to access information and create a new age of women of color in technology\".\n\nBlack Girls Code received a $50,000 grant from Microsoft's Azure development (AzureDev) community campaign in January 2014.\nBlack Girls Code founder Kimberly Bryant also received a \"Standing O-vation\" presented by Oprah Winfrey and Toyota in November 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3489993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3489993", "title": "Clifford Stein", "text": "Clifford Stein\n\nClifford Seth Stein (born December 14, 1965), a computer scientist, is a professor of industrial engineering and operations research at Columbia University in New York, NY, where he also holds an appointment in the Department of Computer Science. Stein is chair of the Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Department at Columbia University. Prior to joining Columbia, Stein was a professor at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire.\n\nStein's research interests include the design and analysis of algorithms, combinatorial optimization, operations research, network algorithms, scheduling, algorithm engineering and computational biology.\n\nStein has published many influential papers in the leading conferences and journals in his fields of research, and has occupied a variety of editorial positions including in the journals \"ACM Transactions on Algorithms\", \"Mathematical Programming\", \"Journal of Algorithms\", \"SIAM Journal on Discrete Mathematics\" and \"Operations Research Letters\". His work has been funded by the National Science Foundation and the Sloan Foundation. As of November 1, 2015, his publications have been cited over 46,000 times, and he has an h-index of 42. \n\nStein is the winner of several prestigious awards including an NSF Career Award, an Alfred Sloan Research Fellowship and the Karen Wetterhahn Award for Distinguished Creative or Scholarly Achievement. He is also the co-author of two textbooks: \n\nStein earned his B.S.E. from Princeton University in 1987, a Master of Science from The Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1989, and a PhD also from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1992.\n\nIn recent years, Stein has built up close ties with the Norwegian research community which earned him an honorary doctorate from the University of Oslo (May 2010).\n\n"}
{"id": "30231292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30231292", "title": "Cogmed", "text": "Cogmed\n\nCogmed was a company that developed a cognitive training software program. The company was founded based on software created in the lab of Torkel Klingberg, a neuroscientist at the Karolinska Institute, who was using it to present working memory challenges to people while he studied their brains using fMRI, to try to learn about neuroplasticity. When the studies appeared to show that the challenges improved working memory, Klingberg founded Cogmed in 2001, with financial backing from the Karolinska Institute and venture capitalists.\n\nCogmed's initial marketing was focused on helping people with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and expanded to other impairments of working memory, such as persons with learning disabilities, and people who had a stroke or other traumatic brain injury.\n\nIn 2010, Cogmed was purchased by Pearson Education and became a part of the Pearson Clinical Assessment Group. Karolinksa received 22m SEK and double digit royalties as part of the transaction.\n\nA 2012 meta-analysis of 23 research studies on seven different commercial and non-commercial working memory training techniques (including Cogmed) found that \"working memory training programs give only near-transfer effects, and there is no convincing evidence that even such near-transfer effects are durable.\" Another 2012 review of Cogmed found that many of the problem-solving or training tasks presented in Cogmed are not related to working memory, that many of the attention tasks are unrelated to ADHD, and that there is limited transfer to real-life manifestations of attention deficits, concluding \"The only unequivocal statement that can be made is that Cogmed will improve performance on tasks that resemble Cogmed training.\"\n\nThe company's marketing efforts have been described in popular media. A 2013 article in \"The New Yorker\" magazine said that brain training games are \"bogus.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13796465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13796465", "title": "Community Development &amp; Leadership Summit", "text": "Community Development &amp; Leadership Summit\n\nThe Community Development & Leadership Summit (CDLS) is an annual international summit held for high school juniors. It has been annually held in New Delhi, India since 2006. It is hosted by Modern School Barakhamba Road. \n\nThe Modern School is located on Barakhamba Road, New Delhi.\n\nCDLS 2007 was held from Sunday 28 October to Thursday 8 November 2007.\n\nThe participants in CDLS2007 will include delegations from Australia, China, Japan, Malaysia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Ukraine, The United States of America and India. Each contingent will comprise 4 students (2 boys and 2 girls) from Senior Secondary or/and Secondary grades along with 1 accompanying teacher. It is expected that the ideas exchanged during the summit will empower students to understand the role of leadership in community development. \n\nBesides numerous seminars and workshops conducted by well known personalities from their respective fields and areas, the participants will also be taken for local sightseeing and a trip to Taj Mahal at Agra. All expenses inclusive of lodging, boarding and activities related to the summit will be borne by the host school. Its noted participants include Parnab Mookerje, F. Bakhtyar Ahmed, Shri Shri Avi Gujjar, Eric Arthur Blair, Underwood Clare and Leonardo DaCaprio.\n\nThe participants and visiting teachers will be staying in the school's boarding house. The participants will also be given an opportunity to enjoy home stay with some of the Modern School's students to get an insight into the culture and values of the Indian community.\n\nSome references from around the world: \n\n"}
{"id": "21026313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21026313", "title": "Council of Higher Education (Turkey)", "text": "Council of Higher Education (Turkey)\n\nThe Council of Higher Education (, YÖK; also translated as \"Higher Education Board\") is responsible for the supervision of universities in Turkey, in a capacity defined by articles 130 and 131 of the 1982 constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "3218648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3218648", "title": "Cultural heritage", "text": "Cultural heritage\n\nCultural heritage is the legacy of physical artifacts and intangible attributes of a group or society that is inherited from past generations. \n\nCultural heritage includes tangible culture (such as buildings, monuments, landscapes, books, works of art, and artifacts), intangible culture (such as folklore, traditions, language, and knowledge), and natural heritage (including culturally significant landscapes, and biodiversity).\n\nThe deliberate act of keeping cultural heritage from the present for the future is known as preservation (American English) or conservation (British English), though these terms may have more specific or technical meaning in the same contexts in the other dialect.\n\nObjects are a part of the study of human history because they provide a concrete basis for ideas, and can validate them. Their preservation demonstrates a recognition of the necessity of the past and of the things that tell its story. In \"The Past is a Foreign Country\", David Lowenthal observes that preserved objects also validate memories. While digital acquisition techniques can provide a technological solution that is able to acquire the shape and the appearance of artifacts with an unprecedented precision in human history, the actuality of the object, as opposed to a reproduction, draws people in and gives them a literal way of touching the past. This unfortunately poses a danger as places and things are damaged by the hands of tourists, the light required to display them, and other risks of making an object known and available. The reality of this risk reinforces the fact that all artifacts are in a constant state of chemical transformation, so that what is considered to be preserved is actually changing – it is never as it once was. Similarly changing is the value each generation may place on the past and on the artifacts that link it to the past.\nClassical civilizations, and especially the Indian, have attributed supreme importance to the preservation of tradition. Its central idea was that social institutions, scientific knowledge and technological applications need to use a \"heritage\" as a \"resource\". Using contemporary language, we could say that ancient Indians considered, as social resources, both economic assets (like natural resources and their exploitation structure) and factors promoting social integration (like institutions for the preservation of knowledge and for the maintenance of civil order). Ethics considered that what had been inherited should not be consumed, but should be handed over, possibly enriched, to successive generations. This was a moral imperative for all, except in the final life stage of sannyasa.\n\nWhat one generation considers \"cultural heritage\" may be rejected by the next generation, only to be revived by a subsequent generation.\n\nCultural property includes the physical, or \"tangible\" cultural heritage, such as artworks. These are generally split into two groups of movable and immovable heritage. Immovable heritage includes building so (which themselves may include installed art such as organs, stained glass windows, and frescos), large industrial installations or other historic places and monuments. Moveable heritage includes books, documents, moveable artworks, machines, clothing, and other artifacts, that are considered worthy of preservation for the future. These include objects significant to the archaeology, architecture, science or technology of a specified culture.\n\nAspects and disciplines of the preservation and conservation of tangible culture include:\n\n\"Intangible cultural heritage\" consists of non-physical aspects of a particular culture, more often maintained by social customs during a specific period in history. The concept includes the ways and means of behavior in a society, and the often formal rules for operating in a particular cultural climate. These include social values and traditions, customs and practices, aesthetic and spiritual beliefs, artistic expression, language and other aspects of human activity. The significance of physical artifacts can be interpreted as an act against the backdrop of socioeconomic, political, ethnic, religious and philosophical values of a particular group of people. Naturally, intangible cultural heritage is more difficult to preserve than physical objects.\n\nAspects of the preservation and conservation of cultural intangibles include:\n\n\n\"Natural heritage\" is also an important part of a society's heritage, encompassing the countryside and natural environment, including flora and fauna, scientifically known as biodiversity, as well as geological elements (including mineralogical, geomorphological, paleontological, etc.), scientifically known as geodiversity. These kind of heritage sites often serve as an important component in a country's tourist industry, attracting many visitors from abroad as well as locally. Heritage can also include cultural landscapes (natural features that may have cultural attributes).\n\nAspects of the preservation and conservation of natural heritage include:\n\nSignificant was the Convention Concerning the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage that was adopted by the General Conference of UNESCO in 1972. As of 2011, there are 936 World Heritage Sites: 725 cultural, 183 natural, and 28 mixed properties, in 153 countries. Each of these sites is considered important to the international community.\n\nThe underwater cultural heritage is protected by the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. This convention is a legal instrument helping states parties to improve the protection of their underwater cultural heritage.\n\nIn addition, UNESCO has begun designating masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights sitting as part of the United Nations Economic and Social Council with article 15 of its Covenant had sought to instill the principles under which cultural heritage is protected as part of a basic human right.\n\nKey international documents and bodies include:\n\nMuch of heritage preservation work is done at the national, regional, or local levels of society. Various national and regional regimes include:\n\n\n\nBroad philosophical, technical, and political issues and dimensions of cultural heritage include:\n\nIssues in cultural heritage management include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDigital methods in preservation\n\n\n"}
{"id": "367283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=367283", "title": "Degrees of the University of Oxford", "text": "Degrees of the University of Oxford\n\nThe system of academic degrees at the University of Oxford can be confusing to those not familiar with it. This is not merely because many degree titles date from the Middle Ages, but also because many changes have been haphazardly introduced in recent years. For example, the (medieval) BD, BM, BCL, etc. are postgraduate degrees, while the (modern) MPhys, MEng, etc. are undergraduate degrees.\n\nIn postnominals, \"University of Oxford\" is normally abbreviated \"Oxon.\", which is short for \"(Academia) Oxoniensis\": e.g., MA (Oxon.), although within the university itself the abbreviation \"Oxf\" can be used.\n\n\nThe bachelor's degree is awarded soon after the end of the degree course (three or four years after matriculation). Until recently, all undergraduates studied for the degree of Bachelor of Arts. The BFA was introduced in 1978. Holders of the degrees of BA and BFA both proceed in time to the degree of Master of Arts (MA). Note that the BA is still awarded even for some science courses, such as the three-year Physics degree which also still adheres to the traditional degree classification structure, with only 30% of candidates being awarded an upper second class honours or above. The degree of Bachelor of Science (BSc) has never been awarded as an undergraduate degree at Oxford; it used to be awarded as a graduate qualification, however.\n\n\nThe BTh is awarded primarily to students of the various theological colleges and halls, such as Wycliffe Hall, St Stephen's House, Ripon College Cuddesdon and the former Westminster College, Oxford. Usually, these students are candidates for the ordained ministry of one of the mainstream Christian denominations, but may be drawn from any faith background or none at the discretion of the College or Hall. It should not be confused with the degree of bachelor of divinity (BD), which is a postgraduate degree.\n\nThe BEd was formerly awarded to students residing at Westminster College, Culham College of Education, the Lady Spencer Churchill College of Education, and Milton Keynes College of Education (formerly the North Buckinghamshire College of Education) who read concurrently at the university.\n\nIn the 1990s the following degrees were introduced to increase public recognition of the four-year undergraduate science programmes in these subjects:\n\n\nThe holders of these degrees have the academic precedence and standing of BAs until the twenty-first term from matriculation, when they rank as MAs. From 2014 graduates with these degrees wear the same academic gown as a Master of Studies, with a black silk hood lined with sand fabric. Previously the academic dress was simply the BA gown and hood, (from 2009, even after achieving MA status). In contrast, science undergraduates at Cambridge may be granted the additional degree of Master of Natural Sciences (MSci) while continuing to be awarded the BA (and the subsequent MA). Note that biology and physiology undergraduates are still awarded the BA/MA, as these are currently three-year courses. All other undergraduates, whether their degree courses last three years or four years, are awarded the BA/MA\n\nThe degree of Master of Arts is awarded to BAs and BFAs seven years after matriculation, without further examination, upon the payment of a nominal fee. Recipients of undergraduate master's degrees are not eligible to incept as MA, but are afforded the same privileges after the statutory twenty-one terms. This system dates from the Middle Ages, when the study of the liberal arts took seven years.\n\n\nIn medieval times a student could not study some subjects until he had completed his study in the liberal arts. These were known as the higher faculties. The degrees in Science and Letters were added in the 19th century, and the degree in Philosophy was added in 1914. The higher bachelor's degree programme is generally a taught programme of one or two years for graduates. In Medicine and Surgery this corresponds to the clinical phase of training, after which they are accorded the courtesy title \"Doctor\". The BD and BMus are open only to Oxford graduates who have done well in the BA examinations in divinity and music, respectively. The BPhil/MPhil is a part-taught, part-research degree which is often a stepping stone to the DPhil.\n\n\nThe MCh is the higher degree in surgery, and is awarded on similar conditions to higher doctorates such as the DM, e.g., ten years must have passed since the lower degree in the faculty. In medieval times the distinction between a master and doctor was not significant, and both words signified the higher degree in a faculty. The title \"master\" is used instead of \"doctor\", as surgeons in England are traditionally known as \"Mr\" rather than \"Dr\".\n\n\nDue to pressure from employers and overseas applicants to conform with United States practice, which is also that of most other UK universities, the BLitt, BSc, and BPhil (in degrees other than philosophy) were re-titled master's degrees.\n\n\nThe MJur and MBA are awarded after taught courses, the MJur being the equivalent of the BCL for students from non-common-law backgrounds. The MSt is a one-year hybrid research/taught course which is the equivalent of the taught master's degree in most other UK universities. The MTh is an applied theology course for those intending to enter holy orders. The degree of Master of Education was formerly awarded to students at Westminster College, when that course was validated by the University.\n\n\nHistorically at the oldest universities in the world (University of Oxford and University of Cambridge), a Diploma was a postgraduate qualification but it has mostly been replaced by the more common master's degree. However, in some cases the naming remains unchanged for historically significant areas or very specialized curriculum (for instance, the Cambridge Diploma in Computer Science retains its archaic name due to its historical significance in the history of computer science). It depends on the programme. However, in many cases at Oxbridge, Diploma is a Master-level qualification and require a thesis (the naming Diploma is used in case of a very specialised area that through learning process is going to be deeply explored). \nE.g. Oxford: Diploma in Geography, J. N. L. Baker (1921), Diploma in Legal Studies, Barney Williams (2004).\n\n\nBachelors in the higher faculties other than Medicine can proceed to a doctorate in the same faculty without further examination, on presentation of evidence of an important contribution to their subject, e.g., published work, research, etc. Doctorates in the higher faculties may also be awarded \"honoris causa\", i.e., as honorary degrees. It is traditional for the Chancellor to be made a DCL \"jure officio\" (by virtue of his office). Until the 19th century all bishops who had studied at Oxford were made DDs \"jure officio\".\n\n\nThe DPhil is a research degree, modelled on the German and American PhD, that was introduced in 1914. Rather atypically, Oxford was the first university in the UK to accept this innovation.\n\n\nMembers of the University of Oxford are ranked according to their degree. The order is as follows:\n\n\nWithin each degree the holders are ranked by the date on which they proceeded to their degree. In the case of people who graduated on the same day they are ranked by alphabetical order.\n\nIf the Degree of Master of Biochemistry, or Chemistry, or Computer Science, or Earth Sciences, or Engineering, or Mathematics, or Mathematics and Computer Science, or Mathematics and Philosophy, or Physics, or Physics and Philosophy, is held together with a higher degree, the holder will rank in precedence equally with a person who holds the same higher degree together with the Degree of Master of Arts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19566886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19566886", "title": "Dolan DNA Learning Center", "text": "Dolan DNA Learning Center\n\nThe DNA Learning Center (DNALC) is a genetics learning center affiliated with the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, in Cold Spring Harbor, New York. It is the world's first science center devoted entirely to genetics education and offers online education, class field trips, student summer day camps, and teacher training. The DNALC's family of internet sites cover broad topics including basic heredity, genetic disorders, eugenics, the discovery of the structure of DNA, DNA sequencing, cancer, neuroscience, and plant genetics.\n\nThe center developed a website called DNA Subway for the iPlant Collaborative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18112787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18112787", "title": "Education in the Falkland Islands", "text": "Education in the Falkland Islands\n\nEducation in the Falkland Islands is free and compulsory up to the end of the academic year when a child reaches 16 years of age. The Falklands follows the English education system.\n\nThere are two schools in Stanley, the capital and only substantial settlement. The Infant and Junior School teaches ages 4 to 11 and the Falkland Islands Community School caters for ages 11 to 16. Other rural pupils are taught by travelling teachers. Older children can board in a hostel in Stanley so they can attend school there.\n\nAll teachers are trained in the UK or other English-speaking countries. There is also a primary school at RAF Mount Pleasant that mainly serves the children of members of the British armed forces. Some primary aged children who live in \"camp\" (the local term for the countryside) are educated remotely.\n\nThere are no post-secondary institutions on the Falklands, post-secondary studies would require travel to the UK or beyond. The Falkland Islands Government pays for qualified 16- to 18-year-olds to go to England to take A-level courses at Peter Symonds College, Winchester or to attend Chichester College to acquire National Diplomas or NVQs. The government also funds higher and further education courses for over-18s, also usually in the UK, for suitably qualified students. \n\nAlmost all return to the Falkland Islands after they have completed their education and gained experience in their chosen field \n\n"}
{"id": "45713400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45713400", "title": "Edwin O. Reischauer Lectures", "text": "Edwin O. Reischauer Lectures\n\nThe Edwin O. Reischauer Lectures is a series of lectures at Harvard University sponsored by the John King Fairbank Center established in 1986 to be given annually in memory of Edwin O. Reischauer. The lectures are then published by Harvard University Press.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53742269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53742269", "title": "Equity Schools", "text": "Equity Schools\n\nEquity Schools is a Chicago-based firm focused on solving capital and operational funding problems for schools, businesses, and other organizations. They primarily work with public, private, charter, and independent schools, and are known for using various non-conventional funding methods, or “nonlinear project funding.”\n\nThe firm was founded in 2001 by its current president Richard R. Murray, who is most known for his invention of the corporate work study program used by the Cristo Rey Network.\n\nMurray's creation and first use of the nonlinear model was in 1996 when he was approached by Cristo Rey High School in Chicago to help them find a way to fund their new school. The group had few assets and no plan of how they would create a quality program that would be affordable to inner city students.\n\nThe program Murray designed is based upon the concepts of job sharing and employee leasing; Cristo Rey students attend class four days per week, and then attend a corporate internship at a Chicago business on the fifth day. The revenues generated by these internships cover a great majority of tuition costs for Cristo Rey students, which helps keep their tuition rates low.\n\nAfter implementation of this plan the Chicago community school saw its dropout rate decline from 75% to 1%, with 100% of graduates being accepted to college. The Cristo Rey Network now successfully operates this program at 32 schools across 21 states.\n\nMurray's experience creating the nonlinear method when working with Cristo Rey led him to found Equity Schools in 2001. Since its creation Equity Schools has worked with seven schools in the US to plan and implement solutions to funding problems. Projects that have implemented nonlinear models created by Equity Schools have seen a 100% success rate.\n\nThe nonlinear approach used by Equity Schools is a method at working through funding problems when conventional sources of funding are not enough to accomplish a project or maintain operations. Conventional, or “linear,” sources of funding often rely upon fundraising and government programs (loans, grants, tax referendums). By contrast, a nonlinear approach may use conventional funding sources where applicable, but then examines relationships and existing revenue streams to identify sufficient funding from several, often non-obvious sources.\n\nUtilizing multiple diverse sources for funding makes a nonlinear approach highly conducive to a customized, self-sustaining funding strategy to support projects and operations. This approach is comprehensive as it includes factors such as a school's curriculum, character and culture, finances, real estate, and long-term educational, operational, and capital needs.\n\n"}
{"id": "17083000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17083000", "title": "Foundation course", "text": "Foundation course\n\nA foundation course is a preparatory course for university-level art and design education, used particularly in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe foundation course is a one or two year preparatory course for school-leavers who want to qualify for a place on a bachelor's degree course in art, design or architecture. The course is almost entirely practical in nature, although increasingly elements of art and design history have been introduced, and it is considered sufficient to qualify those who pass it to move on to a degree course without further study. It is the dominant form of entry to university and art college degree courses in the United Kingdom, but versions of it exist in several other countries, particularly where British influence over art education has been historically strong. In Ireland it is known as the Core Studies course, and versions of the foundation course also exist in Australia, Canada, Cyprus, Malta, Malaysia and New Zealand.\n\nHarry Thubron at Leeds College of Art. Together they began to establish a team to deliver a new form of art preparation course they called the Basic Design Course. The aim of the course was to teach what were considered to be the basic skills that underpin all art and design activities, including architecture. This resulted in projects designed to develop skills in using colour, articulating two- and three-dimensional space, defining form and experimenting with diverse materials. Many of these theories were tested by Thubron at a series of art summer schools in the seaside town of Scarborough, North Yorkshire, which attracted art students, artists and art teachers from throughout Britain. The result of this was that the theories of the basic design course were very widely disseminated, which helped the programme to become so widespread.\n\nThis approach to preparing art and design students for degree level study had its origins in the writings of Herbert Read, and Coldstream, Thubron and Read regularly met to discuss their ideas at Read's house in the village of Stonegrave, North Yorkshire. Read's ideas had their origin the German Bauhaus school of art, which had used a similar method prior to its closure by the Nazis in 1933.\n\nA notable feature of this method of the foundation course method is that it does not teach basic versions of later art or design practices, so that someone wanting to be a painter would not be taught basic painting, or a student wanting to be a graphic designer would not be taught basic graphic design. Specific skills were left to be taught in the specific degree course itself, whereas the foundation course only focused on the core skills that are perceived to be common to all art and design practices.\n\n\nOutside of the UK most Foundation Course programmes are validated by universities or national education authorities, although the programmes in Malta and Cyprus are validated by UK examining boards.\n\n"}
{"id": "20823696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20823696", "title": "François Thibaut", "text": "François Thibaut\n\nFrançois Thibaut (born January 3, 1948) is an educator known for developing the \"Thibaut Technique\" second language acquisition method for children and is the Founder/Director of \"The Language Workshop for Children\" (“LWFC”)He currently operates nationwide educational centers based in New York City. Thibaut’s technique is the basis of the curriculum offered at LWFC programs and in the Professor Toto children’s language education animation. The LWFC begins teaching languages to children at the age of six months, when they’re preverbal.\n\nAt the age of six Thibaut was enrolled at the College Saint Barbe boarding school in Paris where teachers intentionally made little to no effort to translate or explain the meaning of the French language curriculum in which newly arriving, non-French speaking students found themselves immersed. Instead, after six weeks of absorbing French in a context-rich language immersion classroom, the non-French elementary age children would begin speaking French in single words. Then by week eight they were speaking in two, and then three word sentences. Eventually, by 2½ months they were constructing complete, accent-free French sentences, correctly attributing noun genders, and using past, present, and future tenses. Years later Thibaut realized that he’d observed a strong example of what neurolinguist Eric Lenneberg later identified in his book Biological Foundations of Language (1967) what he termed the critical period in language development. Thibaut’s childhood observations eventually led him to bring immersive, emotionally stimulating, context-rich, language classes founding his Cercle Franco Americain (later Language Workshop for Children) classes in New York, NY in the early 1970s. Thus, the Thibaut Technique was introduced into American culture.\n\nThis approach has often been attributed to baby language enrichment products first introduced for VCR’s in the mid-1990s. While many of these brands have had more national exposure, Thibaut’s technique was in existence for more than 20 years prior to their debut.\n\nThibaut emigrated to New York City in 1973, when foreign language instruction was strongly focused on high school and college students. As a teacher he was frustrated by watching his college-age students continually struggle the same drill and translation-based French so he began focusing on younger learners, abandoned translation-drills, and adopted the context-rich, language acquisition devices that he observed at his own elementary school in the 1950s, adding his own brand of playfulness, color, and humor.\n\nSince 1973, his internationally recognized Language Workshop for Children has offered stimulating language lessons for babies, toddlers and elementary grades. Original music, vocabulary-building songs, language immersion, festive visual aids, action games and native-fluent language teachers are why the LWFC is the country’s leader in children’s language educational play. As Thibaut says, “Children remember the words that make them happy”.\n\nIn 2011, Thibaut drew on his successful technique with children by offering friendly, situationally relevant classes through his French Language Salon® classes for adults. Thibaut’s new adult method immediately integrates grammar and conversation, rather than teaching them as separate disciplines. Thibaut’s former child students often attend his adult classes to practice French for social and professional purposes. Thibaut also designed a test preparation program for students of varying levels who are working to pass in exams focused on French as a second language and comply with the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages.\n\nThibaut specializes in different types of test preparation that merge his original French teaching style with patterns that correlating to the pertaining exam (SAT, AP French, CEFRL, and Canadian TEF.) He combines his French education experience with an understanding of the exams and their tendencies, inspired by the, “life-hack,” movement and applied to a more academic and professional sphere.\n\nWith the growth of technology at the turn of the new century, Thibaut expanded his outreach platforms beyond the classroom by producing his Professor Toto Language Education Series for children, available in original CD/DVD and downloadable formats through Amazon, as well as making his language lessons and test prep services available via Skype.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "268040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268040", "title": "Ghent University", "text": "Ghent University\n\nGhent University (, abbreviated as UGent) is a public research university located in Ghent, Belgium. It was established in 1817 by King William I of the Netherlands. After the Belgian revolution of 1830, the newly formed Belgian state began to administer the university. In 1930, it became the first Dutch-speaking university in Belgium, whereas French had previously been the standard academic language. In 1991, the university was granted major autonomy and changed its name accordingly from \"State University of Ghent\" (, abbreviated as \"RUG\") to its current designation.\n\nIn contrast to the Catholic University of Leuven or the Free University of Brussels, UGent considers itself a \"pluralist\" university in a special sense, i.e. not connected to any particular religion or political ideology. Its motto Inter Utrumque ('In Between Both Extremes'), on the coat of arms, suggests the acquisition of wisdom and science comes only in an atmosphere of peace, when the institution is fully supported by the monarchy and fatherland.\n\nGhent University is one of the biggest Flemish universities, consisting of 41,000 students and 9,000 staff members. The University also supports the University Library and the University Hospital, which is one of the largest hospitals in Belgium. It is one of the greatest beneficiaries of funding from the Research Foundation - Flanders (FWO). Ghent University consistently rates among the top universities not only in Belgium but also throughout the world.\n\nThe university in Ghent was opened on October 9, 1817, with JC van Rotterdam serving as the first rector. In the first year, it had 190 students and 16 professors. The original four faculties consisted of Humanities (Letters), Law, Medicine and Science, and the language of instruction was Latin. The university was founded by King William I as part of a policy to stem the intellectual and academic lag in the southern part of the United Kingdom of the Netherlands, later to become Belgium.\n\nAfter peaking at a student population of 414, the number of students declined quickly following the Belgian Revolution. At this time, the Faculties of Humanities and Science were broken from the university, but they were restored five years later, in 1835. \nGhent University played a big role in the foundation of modern organic chemistry. Friedrich August Kekulé (7 September 1829 – 13 July 1896) unraveled the structure of benzene at Ghent and Adolf von Baeyer (Johann Friedrich Wilhelm Adolf von Baeyer), a student of August Kekulé, made seminal contributions to organic chemistry.\n\nIn 1882, Sidonie Verhelst became the first female student at the university.\n\nFrench became the language of instruction, taking the place of Latin, after the 1830 Revolution. In 1903, the Flemish politician Lodewijk De Raet led a successful campaign to begin instruction in Dutch, and the first courses were begun in 1906.\n\nDuring World War I, the occupying German administration conducted \"Flamenpolitik\" and turned Ghent University into the first Dutch-speaking university in Belgium. A Flemish Institute (\"Vlaemsche Hoogeschool\"), commonly known as Von Bissing University, was founded in 1916 but was disestablished after the war and French language was fully reinstated. In 1923, Cabinet Minister Pierre Nolf put forward a motion to definitively establish the university as a Dutch-speaking university, and this was realized in 1930. August Vermeylen served as the first rector of a Dutch-language university in Belgium.\n\nIn the Second World War, the German administration of the university attempted to create a German orientation, removing faculty members and installing loyal activists. However, the university became the focal point for many resistance members as the war progressed.\n\nAfter the war, the university became a much larger institution, following government policy of democratizing higher education in Flanders during the 1950s and 1960s. By 1953, there were more than 3,000 students, and by 1969 more than 11,500. The number of faculties increased to eleven, starting with Applied Sciences in 1957. It was followed by Economics and Veterinary Medicine in 1968, Psychology and Pedagogy, as well as Bioengineering, in 1969, and Pharmaceutical Sciences. The faculty of Politics and Social Sciences is the most recent addition, in 1992.\n\nIn the 1960s to 1980s, there were several student demonstrations at Ghent University, notably around the Blandijn site, which houses the Faculty of Arts & Philosophy. The severest demonstrations took place in 1969 in the wake of May 1968.\n\nThe university officially changed its name from \"Rijksuniversiteit Gent\" (RUG) to \"Universiteit Gent\" (UGent) in 1991 following an increased grant of autonomy by the government of the Flemish Community.\n\nIn 2017, Rik Van de Walle succeeded Anne De Paepe as rector.\n\nGhent University consists of eleven Faculties with over 130 individual departments. In addition, the university maintains the Zwijnaarde science park and Greenbridge science park.\n\n\nStanding on the Blandijnberg, the Boekentoren houses the Ghent University Library, which contains nearly 3 million volumes. The University Library has joined the Google Books Library Project. Among other notable collections, it preserves Papyrus 30, an early manuscript of the Greek New Testament.\n\nGhent University consistently ranks among the best universities in the world (top 100). Most recently, in 2017, it was ranked, globally, 69th by the Academic Ranking of World Universities (or Shanghai ranking) and 125th by \"QS World University Rankings.\" For 2018, Ghent University has been ranked, worldwide, 88th by U.S. News & World Report and 107th by \"Times Higher Education.\" \n\nThe university maintains many partnerships within Belgium, across Europe, and throughout the world. For instance, Ghent University supports the Belgian Co-ordinated Collections of Micro-organisms and the Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnologie. Within Europe, it is a member of the Santander Network and the U4 Network. It also participates in the Conference of European Schools for Advanced Engineering Education and Research. In addition, the University cooperates with numerous universities for the Erasmus and Erasmus Mundus programs; within the framework of the latter, it heads the International Master of Science in Rural Development.\n\nOutside of Europe, Ghent University conducts exchange programs on all six continents.\n\nGhent University has been instrumental in the development of COinS and Unipept.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43823852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43823852", "title": "H. C. Verma", "text": "H. C. Verma\n\nHarish Chandra Verma (born 3 April 1952) is an Indian experimental physicist and a retired professor at the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur since 1994. His field of research is nuclear physics.\n\nHe has authored several books on physics at the graduate, undergraduate and school levels. His most popular work is the two-volume book \"Concepts of Physics\". He has co-founded initiatives like \"Shiksha Sopan\" for the social upliftment of the children of the economically weaker section living near the IITK campus. According to his website, he is currently working on a book dealing with electrostatics, magnetostatics and electrodynamics at the undergraduate level.\n\nH. C. Verma spent most of his childhood in Patna and this can be reflected in some texts in his book. He was trained in basic arithmetic by his father Shri Ganesh Prasad Verma, a teacher. Verma has been through the sweet and sour experiences of India's school education system, and this gave him low interest towards studies throughout his school years; until high school, due to which he even struggled to pass his exams. After he graduated high school, he entered Patna Science College, which was a place that moulded this normal school boy into a confident and bright adolescent.\n\nPatna Science College's environment was totally different than his former school. The teachers were bright, enthusiastic and encouraging. As a student who struggled for passing marks was changed into a third place student in Patna University, receiving a B.Sc. (Honours) degree in Physics. From 1975 to 1977, Verma joined the IIT Kanpur for a M.Sc. and was placed as a top student with a performance index of 9.9 out of 10.0. He then chose to remain at IIT Kanpur for his doctorate. Verma received a PhD degree in less than three years.\n\nIn 1980, Verma joined the reputed Patna Science College as a lecturer. He remained in Patna Science college as a lecturer and reader for 15 years before coming to IIT Kanpur.\n\nDr. Verma joined IIT Kanpur in 1994 as assistant professor. Here, he taught many courses, guided M. Sc. and PhD students, authored a book \"Quantum Physics\", and pursued research in experimental nuclear physics. While at IIT Kanpur, apart from his regular assignments, he took many socio-educational initiatives for the benefit of education and society. Some of these initiatives are School Physics Project, Siksha Sopan, and Utsahi Physics Teachers. He retired from formal teaching on 30 June 2017, after 38 years in Teaching Physics.\n\nHe has published 139 research papers for various journals. He has also written several books on Physics for school and intermediate levels. Of these, Concepts of Physics has become a widely known and recommended book on the subject.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29330052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29330052", "title": "Higher education in India", "text": "Higher education in India\n\nIndia's higher education system is the third largest in the world, next to the United States and China. The main governing body at the tertiary level is the University Grants Commission, which enforces its standards, advises the government, and helps coordinate between the centre and the state. Accreditation for higher learning is overseen by 15 autonomous institutions established by the University Grants Commission (UGC) .\n\nAs per the latest 2011 Census, about 8.15% (68 millions) of Indians are graduates, with Union Territories of Chandigarh and Delhi topping the list with 24.65% and 22.56% of their population being graduates respectively. Indian higher education system has expanded at a fast pace by adding nearly 20,000 colleges and more than 8 million students in a decade from 2000–01 to 2010–11.\n, India has 799 universities, with a break up of 44 central universities, 540 state universities, 122 deemed universities, 90 private universities, 5 institutions established and functioning under the State Act, and 75 Institutes of National Importance which include AIIMS, IITs, IIEST and NITs among others. Other institutions include 39,071 colleges as Government Degree Colleges and Private Degree Colleges, including 1800 exclusive women's colleges, functioning under these universities and institutions as reported by the UGC in 2016. Colleges may be Autonomous, i.e. empowered to examine their own degrees, up to PhD level in some cases, or non-autonomous, in which case their examinations are under the supervision of the university to which they are affiliated; in either case, however, degrees are awarded in the name of the university rather than the college.\n\nThe emphasis in the tertiary level of education lies on science and technology. Indian educational institutions by 2004 consisted of a large number of technology institutes. Distance learning and open education is also a feature of the Indian higher education system, and is looked after by the Distance Education Council. Indira Gandhi National Open University is the largest university in the world by number of students, having approximately 3.5 million students across the globe.\n\nSome institutions of India, such as the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institute of Science, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research(IISERs), University of Delhi (DI), Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), University of Calcutta, University of Mumbai and Jawaharlal Nehru University have been globally acclaimed for their standard of education. The IITs enroll about 8000 students annually and the alumni have contributed to both the growth of the private sector and the public sectors of India. However, Indian universities still lag behind universities such as Harvard, Cambridge, and Oxford.\n\nIndian higher education is in need of radical reforms. A focus on enforcing higher standards of transparency, strengthening of the vocational and doctoral education pipeline, and professionalization of the sector through stronger institutional responsibility would help in reprioritizing efforts and working around the complexities. The rise of IT sector and engineering education in India has boxed students into linear path without giving them a chance to explore and discover their passions. Concerted and collaborative efforts are needed in broaden student choices through liberal arts education.\n\nIndia is believed to have had a functioning system of higher education as early as 1000 B.C. Unlike present day universities, these ancient learning centers were primarily concerned with dispersing Vedic education. The modern Indian education system finds its roots in colonial legacy. The British Government used the university system as a tool of cultural colonization. Colonial efforts in higher education were carried out initially through the East India Company, followed by the British parliament and later under direct British rule. The first institution of higher learning set up by the British East India Company was the Calcutta Madrasa in 1781. This was followed by the Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1784, Benaras Sanskrit College in 1791 and Fort William College in 1800. With the Charter Act of 1813, the British Parliament officially declared Indian education as one of the duties of the state. The same act also removed restrictions on missionary work in British India, thus leading to the establishment of the evangelist Serampore College in 1818. Thomas Babbington Macaulay’s famously controversial Minute on Education (1835) reflected the growing support of a Western approach to knowledge over an Oriental one. Soon after, in 1857, the first three official universities were started in Bombay (Mumbai), Calcutta (Kolkata) and Madras (Chennai). These universities were modeled after the University of London and focused on English and the humanities\n\nThe British control of the Indian education system continued until the Government of India Act of 1935 that transferred more power to provincial politicians and began the \"Indianisation\" of education. This period witnessed a rise in the importance of physical and vocational education as well as the introduction of basic education schemes. When India gained independence in 1947, the nation had a total of 241,369 students registered across 20 universities and 496 colleges. In 1948, the Indian Government established the University Education Commission to oversee the growth and improvement of higher education. In the 1960s and 1970s, the government increased its efforts to support higher education by not only setting up state-funded universities and colleges, but also providing financial assistance to private institutions, resulting in the creation of private aided/ grant-in-aid institutions.\n\nDespite the leave of the British, Indian higher education continued to give importance to the languages and humanities until the 1980s. Institutes of professional education like the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Regional Engineering Colleges (REC) and Indian Institutes of Management (IIM) were some of the more prominent exceptions to this trend. These institutions drew inspiration from reputed universities in the United States and also received foreign funding. Post 1980s, the changing needs of the economy, a growing middle class and an increased strain on government financial resources, slowed the growth of state-funded higher educational institutions. This led to an increased role of the private sector in the education system.\n\nUniversities in India have evolved in divergent streams with each stream monitored by an apex body, indirectly controlled by the Ministry of Human Resource Development and funded jointly by the state governments. There are Most universities are administered by the States, however, there are 18 important universities called Central Universities, which are maintained by the Union Government. The increased funding of the central universities give them an advantage over their state competitors.\n\nThe University Grants Commission estimated that in 2013–14, 22,849 PhDs and 20,425 MPhil degrees were awarded. Over half of these were in the fields of Science, Engineering/Technology, Medicine and Agriculture. –15, over 178,000 students were enrolled in research programs.\n\nApart from the several hundred state universities, there is a network of research institutions that provide opportunities for advanced learning and research leading up to a PhD in branches of science, technology and agriculture. Several have won international recognition.\n\n25 of these institutions come under the umbrella of the CSIR – Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and over 60 fall under the ICAR – Indian Council of Agricultural Research. In addition, the DAE – Department of Atomic Energy, and other ministries support various research laboratories.\n\nThe National Institute of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs), Indian Institutes of Technology are among the most prestigious institutions within the technology sciences. Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research(IISERs) are the premier research institutes in the field of science education and research. There are several thousand colleges (affiliated to different universities) that provide undergraduate science, agriculture, commerce and humanities courses in India. Amongst these, the best also offer post graduate courses while some also offer facilities for research and PhD studies.\n\nTechnical education has grown rapidly in recent years. Of 27.3 million students enrolled in undergraduate studies, about 4.5 million are in engineering fields. With recent capacity additions, it now appears that the nation has the capability to graduate over 500,000 engineers (with 4-yr undergraduate degrees) annually, and there is also a corresponding increase in the graduation of computer scientists (roughly 50,000 with post-graduate degree). In addition, the nation graduates over 1.2 million scientists. Furthermore, each year, the nation is enrolling at least 350,000 in its engineering diploma programs (with plans to increase this by about 50,000). Thus, India's annual enrollment of scientists, engineers and technicians now exceeds 2 million.\n\nAcross the country, tertiary enrollment rates have increased at a compound annual growth rate of 3.5% in the 5 years preceding 2016. Current enrollment stands at 34.58 million, over 15% more than the 29.2 million enrolled in 2011.\n\nInternational league tables produced in 2006 by the London-based Times Higher Education Supplement(THES) confirmed Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU)'s place among the world's top 200 universities. Likewise, THES 2006 ranked JNU's School of Social Sciences at the 57th position among the world's top 100 institutes for social sciences. In 2017, THES ranked the Indian Institute of Science as the eighth best \"small university\" in the world. A small university was defined as one with less than 5000 students. In 2015, the institute also became the first Indian institute to make it to the top hundred in the THES list of engineering institutes. It was ranked 99.\n\nThe Anna University, which is of the affiliated type, is a member of the Association of Indian Universities, the Association of Commonwealth Universities and Partner of UNESCO International Center for Engineering Education (UICEE). UGC have accredited Anna University with Five Star Status in 2002 which is the highest rating. With proven capabilities both in academic and research areas, Anna University was able to receive this honour for a period of five years for excellence in technical education.\n\nThe University of Calcutta was the first multi-disciplinary university of modern India. According to The Times Higher Education Supplement's survey of the world's top arts and humanities universities, dated November 10, 2005, this university, ranked 39, was the only Indian university to make it to the top 50 list in that year. Other research institutes are the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics, the Asiatic Society, and the Indian Statistical Institute.\n\nThe National Law School of India University is highly regarded, with some of its students being awarded Rhodes Scholarships to Oxford University, and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences is consistently rated the top medical school in the country. Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) are the top management institutes in India.\n\nThe private sector is strong in Indian higher education. This has been partly as a result of the decision by the Government to divert spending to the goal of universalisation of elementary education. Within a decade different state assemblies have passed bills for private universities, including Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Institute of Finance and International Management, Xavier Labour Relations Institute, ICFAI University, Dehradun, O. P. Jindal Global University and many more.\n\nIndia is also the leading source of international students around the world. More than 200,000 Indian students are studying abroad. They are likely to be enrolled in master's programs with engineering focus which provide them opportunities to enhance career potential.\n\nIndian law requires that universities be accredited unless created through an act of Parliament. Without accreditation, the government notes, \"These fake institutions have no legal entity to call themselves as University/Vishwvidyalaya and to award ‘degree’ which are not treated as valid for academic/employment purposes.\"\nThe University Grants Commission Act 1956 explains,\n\"the right of conferring or granting degrees shall be exercised only by a University established or incorporated by or under a Central Act carlo bon tempo, or a State Act, or an Institution deemed to be University or an institution specially empowered by an Act of the Parliament to confer or grant degrees. Thus, any institution which has not been created by an enactment of Parliament or a State Legislature or has not been granted the status of a Deemed to be University, is not entitled to award a degree.\"\n\nAccreditation for higher learning is overseen by autonomous institutions established by the University Grants Commission:\n\nThe issue of assessing and assuring quality of Indian higher education is a challenge. Instead of aiming for 'world-class' universities through rankings, policy framework must improve the processes that enable accountability through data collection and reporting on parameters of institutional quality. The government should leverage this tool to improve quality of the overall system.\n\nA study was done on autonomous colleges by the Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR) in Kerala recommended that grading should be done for such institutions to improve their overall performance.\n\nThis is a chart of India as per Census 2001.\nThe institutional framework of higher education in India consists of Universities and Colleges. As reported in 2015, India has 760 universities and 38,498 colleges. There are three types of universities: Conventional Universities, Deemed Universities and Institutions of National Importance. While Conventional Universities are established through Act of Parliament or State Legislatures, Deemed Universities award degrees through the notification of the central government. Institutes of National Importance are those that have been awarded the status by Parliament.\n\nThe education system of India falls broadly under the Ministry of Human Resource Development(MHRD). Amongst the branches of the MHRD, the Department of Higher Education is responsible for overseeing the growth of the higher education sector. The Department aims to improve quality of and access to higher education for all sections of the population. One of the key objectives of the Department is to increase the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in higher education to 30% by 2020. Some of the other objectives of the department include: expansion of institutional base, greater inclusion of minorities, removal of regional disparities, infrastructural improvement and increased global participation.\n\nCurrent government initiatives include:\n\n\nUniversity rankings are used to measure and compare institutional quality based on a range of indicators related to research, reputation and teaching. Indian government's National Institutional Ranking Framework, or NIRF is the mechanism for measuring quality and also intended to determine funding and world-class university endeavors. The \"Institutions of Eminence (IoE)\" initiative by the Government of India aims to build top-ranked Indian universities by providing autonomy and funding (only for public universities) and identified six institutions.\n\nThe University of Mumbai was ranked 41 among the Top 50 Engineering Schools of the world by America's news broadcasting firm Business Insider in 2012 and was the only university in the list from the five emerging BRICS nations viz Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. It was ranked at 62 in the QS BRICS University rankings for 2013 and was India's 3rd best Multi Disciplinary University in the QS University ranking of Indian Universities after University of Calcutta and Delhi University. Three Indian universities were listed in the Times Higher Education list of the world's top 200 universities — Indian Institutes of Technology, Indian Institutes of Management, and Jawaharlal Nehru University in 2005 and 2006. Six Indian Institutes of Technology and the Birla Institute of Technology and Science – Pilani were listed among the top 20 science and technology schools in Asia by \"Asiaweek\". The Indian School of Business situated in Hyderabad was ranked number 12 in global MBA rankings by the \"Financial Times\" of London in 2010 while the All India Institute of Medical Sciences has been recognised as a global leader in medical research and treatment. The Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings published in 2013 ranked IIT Delhi at number 222 with a 49.4% score, IIT Bombay at 233, and IIT Kanpur at 295. No Indian universities appear in the top 200 worldwide except IISC Bangalore which is ranked at 147.\n\nIn the last 30 years, higher education in India has witnessed rapid and impressive growth. The increase in the number of institutions is, however, disproportionate to the quality of education that is being dispersed. Unplanned over-expansion is often criticized as one of the biggest downfalls of Indian higher education. A large number of institutions suffer from subpar quality and a lack of funding. As a result, entry into the top institutions is highly competitive and translates into a contest for higher entrance test scores and better private coaching institutes.\n\nHigher education in India faces problems ranging from income and gender disparities in enrolment, to poor quality of faculty and teaching and even to a general lack of motivation and interest amongst students. Industries cite skill shortage as one of the major factors contributing to the mounting number of unemployed graduates. Some of the main challenges faced by the Indian higher education system include:\n\n\nThe complex socio-political nature of the education sector in India makes it difficult to implement social reform. As a result, the overall quality of education suffers.\n\nWhile fee regulatory agencies fix a fee that cover expenses incurred by an institution along with a basic surplus, many institutions have been charging a fee that makes the venture profiteering. All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the regulatory body for technical education in India, has called \"upon the students, parents and the general public not to pay any capitation fee or any other fee other than that mentioned in the Prospectus of the Institutions for consideration of admission.\" AICTE also mentions that the fee charged to students, including for programs such as PGDM, has to be approved by the fee regulatory committee of the state, and the institute should mention the fee on its website. As per AICTE norms, the business schools are not meant to charge a fee higher than what is mentioned in the prospectus. Educational regulatory agencies, at the national level and the regional level, have mandated that an institution should include the fee in the prospectus.\n\n"}
{"id": "1063440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1063440", "title": "Hurlstone Agricultural High School", "text": "Hurlstone Agricultural High School\n\nHurlstone Agricultural High School (abbreviated HAHS) is an agricultural, selective, co-educational, public high school located in Glenfield, a south-western suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It is the oldest government boarding school in New South Wales (NSW).\n\nHurlstone is unique in that it is the state's only public selective and agricultural school that also includes a coeducational boarding school. The 112 hectare campus includes classroom blocks, an operational farm, sporting facilities and student accommodation.\n\nHurlstone has been named the Macarthur region's best academic school, ranking 11th in the NSW top 200 list for the 2012 academic year. The school had 148 distinguished achievers, 13 on the state's top achievers' list, eight on the all-rounders' list and three students who topped the state in a course. Students are required to sit the Selective High Schools Test in year 6 to be granted enrolment into the school. The allowance mark is usually between 200 and 205 in the Selective test (out of 300). Students can also gain entrance by sitting a similar exam in other grades.\n\nHurlstone was established as a boys-only school in 1907 in Hurlstone Park, approximately ten kilometres south west of Sydney, at the present site of Trinity Grammar School. The original owner of the land was a teacher, John Kinloch, one of the first graduates of the University of Sydney. He named the land 'Hurlstone Estate', after his mother's maiden name and set up his own school on it in 1878 which he called the Hurlstone School and College.\n\nIn those days most students completed their schooling after primary school and students at 'Hurlstone Agricultural Continuation School' (as it was known at the time) studied there for only two years. In 1926 the school moved to its present site in Glenfield, approximately 42 km south-west of Sydney (between Liverpool and Campbelltown) and adjacent to Glenfield railway station. By then its student numbers had grown from 30 in 1907, to 148. The school supported government policy to promote productivity in the agricultural sector through the training of boys in all aspects of agricultural sciences and farm management.\n\nFor a brief period in the 1940s it was known as 'Macarthur Agricultural High School' in honour of wool-grower John Macarthur, but it soon reverted to its previous name.\n\nHurlstone was a boys' school until 1979, when the decision was made to become co-educational.\n\nHurlstone has had 13 Principals. The current principal is Christine Castle. The current deputy principals are Mr Krishan and Ms Young. Below is a table of Hurlstone school principals:\n\nEnrolment at the school is dependent on selective examinations of Year 6 students from across the state. New students coming in later grades have to sit a similar exam.\n\nThe student population of about 975 is divided between boarder students (who reside on the school grounds and originate mainly from country NSW), and day students (who commute mostly from the south western Sydney region). The boarder-day student ratio is roughly 1:8. For sporting and accommodation purposes the school is divided into four houses: Farrer (red), Macarthur (yellow), Wentworth (blue) and Lachlan Macquarie (green).\n\nHurlstone Agricultural High School is located on a single campus, covering the area from Glenfield railway station, along Roy Watts Road and extending to sections of Quarter Sessions Road near the Hume Highway. Glenfield station is serviced by the T2 Airport, Inner West & South Line, the T5 Cumberland Line and the South West Rail Link.\n\nThe school has several enclaves, including the Department of Education regional office and the Department of Public Works office. It also has several specialty schools, Ajuga Primary School, Glenfield Park School and Campbell House High School. Ajuga and Campbell House are for students with behavioural issues that can’t go to their loca school (usually due to expulsion) while Glenfield Park is for students with disabilities.\n\nHurlstone features a fully functional farm and a commercial dairy. Animals on the farm include: beef and dairy cattle, sheep, horses, pigs, and chickens. Alpacas, peacocks and bees were also formerly farmed.\n\nThe school's swimming pool is located adjacent to the boarding school, and was used for swimming carnivals, school sports and recreational purposes. Towards the end of 2012, the pool was closed down due to hygiene issues and cracks along the pool. Plans to rebuild the pool have been considered but no construction has started. It is currently assumed that the pool will never be repaired, due to the fact that the land on which it sits will no longer be a part of the new Roy Watts school after Hurlstone moves.\n\nThe boarding school has modern facilities, where boarders can sleep, study, exercise and hang around. Facilities include a well-being center, cardio rooms, spacious dining hall, a lecture theatre, a common room and private dormitories. The day school also have facilities including classrooms, toilets, an oval, football fields, careers office, music rooms, the John Edmondson hall, Covered Outdoor Learning Area, computer rooms, technology rooms, science labs, dance studio, horticulture area, volleyball court, tennis courts, cricket nets and the Stanley Cook Memorial Library.\n\nClarke House is a heritage listed building which houses Hurlstone's memorabilia museum.\n\nOn Roy Watts Road past the boarding school there is a memorial forest with trees planted in the shape of a cross. The memorial forest is where the Anzac Day and Remembrance day ceremonies are held.\n\nAs part of the 2008 mini-budget, the New South Wales Government declared 140 hectares of the school to be surplus to educational needs and the land will be sold in 2011. However, due to a strong public protest against this action, an inquiry was led into process of selling approximately seven eighths of the school. As a result, Mal Peters, the Inquiry Chair, recommended the school's agricultural sector to be upgraded in order to reflect current industry practice and standards due to it being an economic, wise and important public investment for the people of NSW as it supplies young scientists with the knowledge for the ever declining, but demanding agricultural sector of the world.\n\nIn 2020 a new school called Hurlstone Agricultural High School will open at Western Sydney University, Hawkesbury. The existing school in Glenfield will be renamed Roy Watts High School (after Hurlstone alumni Roy Watts) and will remain fully selective but will no longer be an agricultural school. The farm land will be converted to a new public school as well as housing and a shopping center.\n\nThe school provides opportunities for students to engage in both co-curricular and extracurricular activities. Students may participate in certain clubs which promote these activities. Some groups are fairly unusual to public schools within the district, such as the Cadet corps, Interact and Rural Youth. Hurlstone's Interact Club is the largest student run Interact in the Southern Hemisphere. Sport is an important part of extracurricular life at Hurlstone.\nHurlstone also participates in the Law Society of NSW's Mock Trial competition. The 2011 team came 2nd in the competition.\n\nOther extracurricular activities at the school include the Prefects, HCF (Hurlstone Christian Fellowship), School SRC, Environment Committee, Debating, Public Speaking, Boarder Council, Pops Orchestra, Ensemble, Choir, Hurlstone H. (Health) Youth, Archives, Safe Space and EPIC (Entertainment and Performing Arts Integrated Community). These groups help to improve the school in a number of ways from the environment to the entertainment sector.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7085910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7085910", "title": "Hyman Bass", "text": "Hyman Bass\n\nHyman Bass (; born October 5, 1932) is an American mathematician, known for work in algebra and in mathematics education. From 1959 to 1998 he was Professor in the Mathematics Department at Columbia University. He is currently the Samuel Eilenberg Distinguished University Professor of Mathematics and Professor of Mathematics Education at the University of Michigan.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family in Houston, Texas, he earned his B.A. in 1955 from Princeton University and his Ph.D. in 1959 from the University of Chicago. His thesis, titled \"Global dimensions of rings\", was written under the supervision of Irving Kaplansky.\n\nHe has held visiting appointments at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques and École Normale Supérieure, (Paris), Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (Bombay), University of Cambridge, University of California, Berkeley, University of Rome, IMPA (Rio), National Autonomous University of Mexico, Mittag-Leffler Institute (Stockholm), and the University of Utah. He was president of the American Mathematical Society.\n\nBass formerly chaired the Mathematical Sciences Education Board (1992–2000) at the National Academy of Sciences, and the Committee on Education of the American Mathematical Society. He was the President of ICMI from 1999 to 2006. Since 1996 he has been collaborating with Deborah Ball and her research group at the University of Michigan on the mathematical knowledge and resources entailed in the teaching of mathematics at the elementary level. He has worked to build bridges between diverse professional communities and stakeholders involved in mathematics education.\n\nHis research interests have been in algebraic K-theory, commutative algebra and algebraic geometry, algebraic groups, geometric methods in group theory, and ζ functions on finite simple graphs.\n\nBass was elected as a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 1982. In 1983, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 2002 he was elected a fellow of The World Academy of Sciences. He is a 2006 National Medal of Science laureate. In 2009 he was elected a member of the National Academy of Education. In 2012 he became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43683791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43683791", "title": "Hélène Rey", "text": "Hélène Rey\n\nHélène Rey (born 1970) is a French economist who serves as Professor at London Business School (LBS).\n\nBorn to a teacher and an engineer she grew up in Brioude in South-Central France.\n\nShe received a Master of Science degree in Engineering Economic Systems from Stanford University in 1994. She has Ph.Ds from Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales and London School of Economics, both in 1998. After working as a lecturer at LSE 1997–2000 she was assistant professor and later professor (2006) at Princeton University where she also worked at Bendheim Center for Finance and Woodrow Wilson School.\n\nHer work focuses on international trade, financial imbalances, financial crises and the international monetary system.\n\nShe was a member of the Conseil d'analyse économique which advises the French Prime Minister on economic matters 2010–2012. and is since 2012 a member of the Commission Economique de la Nation which advises the Finance Minister of France.\n\nShe is a regular contributor the French magazine \"Les Échos\".\n\nIn 2013 she became the first woman to win the Yrjö Jahnsson Award, sharing the prize with Thomas Piketty.\n\nRey is married to fellow professor of economics Richard Portes and the couple have a daughter. They live in London.\n\nRey is credited with ground-breaking research into the structure of international payments and capital flows. By examining the balance sheets of creditor and debtor nations, she offered new insights into relative returns on cross-border investments. She explained her approach in an interview with the \"Financial Times\", which wrote, \"She also showed why the US is the world's banker. \"We called it 'the US's exorbitant privilege'. The US earns more on external assets than it pays on external liabilities. It has an excess return on the order of 2 per cent ... So it issues a lot of government bonds that are happily bought by the rest of the world.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17874175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17874175", "title": "James Young (physician)", "text": "James Young (physician)\n\nJames Morningstar Young (1929 – June 4, 2008) was an American White House physician for presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.\n\nBorn in Massillon, Ohio, Young began his education in a one-room school house. He attended Massillon Washington High School and was captain of the football team during Paul Brown's tenure as coach. He received a full scholarship to attend Duke University, where he became captain of the football team and president of the student body government. While serving as the president of the student body, he was introduced to President Nixon for the first time. He was also a member of SAE and The Order of The Red Friars. After completing his degree in pre-medicine studies, he declined an offer to play for the NFL team, the LA Rams, in California and opted to continue onto Duke University School of Medicine where he obtained his Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree.\n\nDr. Young was on active duty with the U.S. Navy for twenty years between 1955 and 1975. He served as medical director aboard the USS \"Northampton\", where he met president John F. Kennedy for the first time. A couple of months after meeting President Kennedy, Young was asked to become the President's personal physician. Following the acceptance of the President's request, he was promoted to the rank of Captain in the Navy. \n\nDr. Young only cared for the Kennedy family for several months before the president was assassinated in 1963. On that day, Dr. Young was in the White House. When informed of the situation, Dr. Young went to the Secret Service Office where they were on the line with Dallas. After hearing how critical the President's wound was, he acknowledged the situation as hopeless, gestured a thumbs down to the room, and exited the room. He attended the President Kennedy's autopsy when his body returned to Washington, D.C. He slept in the White House for 3 nights following the assassination and then stayed with Jackie Kennedy at Camp David for 10 additional days- yet he never shared details from that time. He continued to remain in the White House as physician during President Johnson's term. He assisted with diagnosing LBJ with a poorly functioning gall bladder with stones; Johnson underwent surgery to remove his gall bladder in 1965. Dr. Young requested to transfer out of the White House in 1966.\n\nDr. Young was Vice President and Medical Director of Massachusetts Blue Cross for 12 years. He assisted with drafting of the Twenty-Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. He was a guest lecturer at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. He also contributed to the book \"Managing Crisis: Presidential Disability and the Twenty-Fifth Amendment\" and appeared on the CNN special \"White House Doctors: The President's Shadow\".\n\nYoung died on June 4, 2008 due to complications following a stroke he suffered in May the same year.\n\n"}
{"id": "42663952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42663952", "title": "Jewish Big Sisters", "text": "Jewish Big Sisters\n\nThe Jewish Big Sisters was a communal organization offering support to Jewish children arraigned in the Children's Courts of New York City. Established in 1912, it was an outgrowth of the Big Brothers Big Sisters movement (established in 1902) which sought to provide mentorship to boys (and eventually girls) who had gone through the Children's Courts. As more Jewish boys and girls found their way into the court system, support materialized for the formation of organizations first for boys and then for girls with the aim of preventing delinquency.\n\nThe Jewish Big Sisters was founded by Mrs. Sidney C. Borg, who as a volunteer in Children's Court lamented the lack of qualified staff to deal with growing numbers of girls she found in court. She established the organization with the recruitment of six volunteers to help deal with individuals cases. The work of the Jewish Big Sisters involved visits to the home of the individual \"little sister\" in cooperation with the central office in order to work on specific cases. A professional would make preliminary visits and at the appropriate time, a big sister would be assigned to the individual. Frequent reports on progress were required. By 1917, the organization had a staff of 250.\n\nBorg also lobbied for legislation to aid children. At a 40th anniversary celebration in 1952, she promoted concern about the designation of \"delinquent,\" pointing out that the term implied conviction of a felony although the individuals may not have been convicted of any crime. She also noted that, when she first started, children were classified as either \"good\" or \"bad\" but that now they were called \"sick.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15700448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15700448", "title": "Katherine R. Whitmore", "text": "Katherine R. Whitmore\n\nKatherine R. Whitmore (née Katherine Prue Reding) (Kansas, 1897-1982) was a Spanish literature professor at Smith College. She majored in Spanish language and literature at the University of Kansas, and received her doctorate from Berkeley. She taught at a college in Richmond and, from 1930 on, at Smith College. She married Brewer Whitmore, another professor at Smith, in 1939. \n\nWhitmore spent the summer of 1932 and the 1934-1935 academic year in Madrid, where she met poet Pedro Salinas, who fell in love with her. The relationship was the inspiration of Salinas' \"La voz a ti debida\" (1934), \"Razón de amor\" (1936), and \"Largo lamento\" (1939). Salinas' love letters to Whitmore from 1932 to 1947, kept at Houghton Library in Harvard University, were published in 2002 as \"Cartas a Katherine. \n\nWhitmore specialized in Generation of '27 literature, which means that she was required to teach the poetry written for her to her students. She wrote several books, including \"The Generation of 1898 in Spain as Seen Through Its Fictional Hero\" (1936), and \"Handbook of Intermediate Spanish\" (1942). \n"}
{"id": "12321782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12321782", "title": "Kentucky Music Educators Association", "text": "Kentucky Music Educators Association\n\nKentucky Music Educators Association (KMEA) is the Kentucky state-level affiliate of The National Association for Music Education. KMEA consists of over 1,000 professional music educators at all levels from kindergarten to the university level. It serves as a voice for Kentucky's music educators, and it maintains an active involvement with groups such as the Kentucky Citizens for the Arts, The Kentucky Alliance for the Arts, and The Kentucky Coalition for the Arts.\n\n\"To advance the cause of music education throughout the Commonwealth of Kentucky by encouraging the study and making of music by all of the population and by serving as a strong advocate for issues affecting the accomplishment of that mission.\"\n\nKentucky high school students are provided the opportunity to participate in \"Kentucky All-State Choruses [SATB, SSAA, TTBB].\"\nFor elementary and middle school children, KMEA offers the Kentucky Children's Chorus for grades 5–6, and two Kentucky Junior High Choruses for grades 7–9: a treble chorus and a mixed chorus.\n\nKentucky high school students also are provided the opportunity to participate in All-State Bands [Concert, Symphonic, Jazz], and the All-State Symphony Orchestra or the Commonwealth String Orchestra, for which the students are chosen from a rigorous audition on their instruments.\n\nSee Kentucky State Marching Band Championships\n\nKMEA provides opportunities for students to receive ratings for their performances as soloists or in small ensembles at district-level sites throughout the Commonwealth in what are called \"Solo and Ensemble Assessments.\" Qualified evaluators rate students performances, and they offers suggestions for improvement of their playing skills. For a student to participate in such event, his/her music teacher must be a member of the Kentucky Music Educators Association. \"Large Ensemble Assessment\" allow bands, orchestras and choral groups to play for evaluation at district-level sites. Bands or choirs receiving Distinguished (I) ratings may participate in the State Concert Band or State Choral Assessments held later in the spring of each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "618944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=618944", "title": "Klaus Janson", "text": "Klaus Janson\n\nKlaus Janson (born January 23, 1952) is a German-born American comics artist, working regularly for Marvel Comics and DC Comics and sporadically for independent companies. While he is best known as an inker, Janson has frequently worked as a penciller and colorist.\n\nKlaus Janson was born in Coburg, Germany, He emigrated to the United States in 1957, settling with his family in Connecticut, where he lived in Bridgeport from 1957 to 1972.\n\nAfter a short stint as assistant to Dick Giordano in the early 1970s, Janson's first credited comics artwork was published by Marvel Comics in \"Jungle Action\" #6 (Sept. 1973). Janson came to prominence as the inker over Sal Buscema's pencils on \"The Defenders\". Since then he has freelanced on most of the major titles at Marvel and DC. In 1975 he began a long run as inker on \"Daredevil\", running from #124 (Aug. 1975) to #196 (July 1983). With #171 the series went from bi-monthly to monthly; unable to handle the increased workload, then-writer/penciler Frank Miller began increasingly relying on Janson for the artwork, sending him looser and looser pencils beginning with #173. By issue #185, Miller had virtually relinquished his role as Daredevil's artist, and was providing only rough layouts for Janson to pencil, ink, and color. After Miller's departure, Janson drew the series by himself for four issues.\n\nJanson began working for DC Comics in the early 1980s and inked Gene Colan's pencils on \"Detective Comics\" and \"Jemm, Son of Saturn\". Janson was one of the artists on \"Superman\" #400 (Oct. 1984) and was one of the contributors to the \"DC Challenge\" limited series. His collaboration with Miller on \"Daredevil\" would soon be eclipsed by a second collaboration between them, on \"Batman: The Dark Knight Returns\" in 1986. Janson has frequently pencilled and inked for various Batman titles, including the first \"Detective Comics Annual\" with writer Dennis O'Neil, \"\" with Grant Morrison, and \"\" with Doug Moench. In 1994, Janson drew the \"Batman-Spawn: War Devil\" intercompany crossover which was written by Moench, Chuck Dixon, and Alan Grant. Janson wrote a short story in the anthology miniseries \"\" #3 (August 1996). Janson drew part of the \"\" crossover as well.\n\nJanson and writer Mike Baron introduced the character Microchip as an ally of the Punisher in \"The Punisher\" #4 (November 1987). In 1993, Janson drew a three-part story featuring Electro for \"\" #38–40. Janson inked the early issues of \"The Sensational Spider-Man\" which had been written and penciled by Dan Jurgens. Janson's work as an inker and occasional penciler at Marvel Comics includes collaborations with John Romita Jr. on \"Wolverine\", \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" and \"Black Panther\". His other work includes \"Batman: Death and the Maidens\", \"World War Hulk\", \"Battlestar Galactica\", \"Logan's Run\", and \"\". In 2010, he inked Romita Jr.'s pencils on \"The Avengers\". and in 2014 the two artists collaborated on \"Superman\". Janson was one of the artists on \"\" which was co-written by Frank Miller and Brian Azzarello.\n\nJanson has taught sequential storytelling at the School of Visual Arts in New York City since the 1990s and has written both \"The DC Comics Guide to Pencilling Comics\" and \"The DC Comics Guide to Inking Comics.\" Janson also holds annual seminars at Marvel for the editorial staff and their up-and-coming artists, and teaches short courses on comics storytelling for the New York-based Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art.\n\nIn 2015, Janson was the Guest of Honor at the 2015 Inkwell Awards Awards Ceremony at HeroesCon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48474293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48474293", "title": "List of Coronet Films", "text": "List of Coronet Films\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of major titles produced by Coronet Films, a leading educational film company from the 1940s through 1990s (when it merged with Phoenix Learning Group, Inc.). The majority of these films were initially available in the 16mm film format. The company started offering VHS videocassette versions in 1979 in addition to films, before making the transition to strictly videos around 1986.\n\nFor space reasons, only a very select number of independently produced films that Coronet merely distributed, including many TV and British productions acquired for 16mm release within the United States, are included here. One example is a popular series, “World Cultures & Youth”, which was actually produced in Canada, but with some backing by Coronet. Also included are those Centron Corporation titles released when Coronet owned them, although their back catalogue of films made earlier were reissued under the Coronet banner.\n\nIt was quite common for a film to be re-released as a “2nd edition” with only minor changes in the edit and a different soundtrack, with music and narration styles changed to fit the changing times. This was especially true in the 1970s, when classrooms demanded more stimulating cinematic lectures. Quite often, only the newest edition of a film is available today. Those titles involving more serious edit changes or actual re-filming are listed as separate titles. In most cases, additional information is provided in the “year / copyright date” column.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20120159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20120159", "title": "Lois Court", "text": "Lois Court\n\nLois Court is a legislator in the U.S. state of Colorado. Elected to the Colorado House of Representatives as a Democrat in 2008, Court represented House District 6 from 2009 through 2016, and was elected to the Colorado Senate in 2016. Court represents State Senate District 31, which encompasses portions of central and southeast Denver, Colorado.She is the Minority Caucus Chair\n\nLois Court earned a Master of Public Administration in 1996 from the Graduate School of Public Affairs, University of Colorado at Denver. She earned her Bachelor of Arts degree in 1975 from the University of Colorado at Denver.\n\nLois Court is married to Patrick Reynolds and has two sons, Nathan and Brendan. She has lived in the 7th Avenue Parkway Neighborhood for 33 years and has been active in Denver/State civics, public school, and community affairs for over 25 years. Prior to becoming a legislator, she served as Denver Mayor Wellington Webb's Director of Administration, General Services Department; Director of the Mayor's Office of Volunteerism; and Director of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Response. Court also served as a legislative staffer for a member of the Colorado General Assembly during which time she became familiar with legislative procedures.\n\nShe also has over 20 years of experience as a public issues consultant. Lois Court currently still serves as an American Government and Political Science Adjunct Instructor at the Red Rocks Community College.\n\nLois Court defeated Liz Adams and Josh Hanfling in the contested Democratic primary in August, taking 44 percent of votes cast.\n\nCourt faced Republican Joshua Sharf in the November 2008 general election. Her candidacy was endorsed by the \"Denver Post\",\n\nFor the 2009 legislative session, Court was named to seats on the House Services Committee, the House Judiciary Committee, and the House State, Veterans, and Military Affairs Committee.\n\nIn her first legislative session, Court sponsored legislation to require carbon monoxide detectors in new homes and rental units.\n\nFor the 2010 legislative session, Court continued in her positions on the House Services Committee, the House Judiciary Committee, and the House State, Veterans, and Military Affairs Committee.\nIn her second legislative session, Court co-sponsored Senate Bill 10-228 to eliminate the arbitrary allocation cap for the General Fund so Colorado could recover more quickly from the recession.\n\nCourt again faced Republican Joshua Sharf in the November 2010 general election. Even in a Republican year, she won the November general election with 64 percent of the popular vote.\n\nIn the 2011 legislative session the Democrats were in a slim minority: 33 Republicans, 32 Democrats in the State House. Court served as a member of the House State, Veterans, and Military Affairs Committee, The House Judiciary Committee and the House Services Committee. In addition, she was elected by her Democratic colleagues to serve as Minority Caucus Chair. As Caucus Chair she is a member of the Democratic leadership team and organizes caucus gatherings and chairs discussions.\n\nHer major piece of legislation in 2011 was SCR 11-001, a concurrent resolution to increase the threshold for constitutional change in Colorado.\n\nIn the 2012 legislative session the Democrats were in a slim minority: 33 Republicans, 32 Democrats in the State House. Court served as a member of the House State, Veterans, and Military Affairs Committee, The House Judiciary Committee and the House Services Committee. In addition, she was re-elected by her Democratic colleagues to serve as Minority Caucus Chair. As Caucus Chair she is a member of the Democratic leadership team and organizes caucus gatherings and chairs discussions.\n\nHer major piece of legislation in 2012 was HCR 12-1003: Concerning our State Constitution and Raising the Standards Required for Changing It. This concurrent resolution would have changed the way and ease with which the Colorado Constitution can be changed.\n\nIn the 2012 General Election, Representative Court faced Republican challenger Robert Hardaway. Court was elected by a margin of 67% to 30%.\n\nIn the 2013 legislative session the Democrats were in the majority: 37 Democrats, 28 Republicans in the State House. Court served as Chair of the House Finance Committee and as a member of The House Judiciary Committee and the House Services Committee. In addition, she was re-elected by her Democratic colleagues to serve as majority Caucus Chair. As Caucus Chair she is a member of the Democratic leadership team and organizes caucus gatherings and chairs discussions.\n\nCourt had two major pieces of legislation in 2013. HB 13-1228: Payment for Background Checks for Gun Transfers - this bill imposes a small fee, around $12, for performing an instant criminal background check upon the purchaser of a gun. Previously, the state provided a subsidy to gun purchasers for this fee.\n\nHer other major piece of legislation was SB 13-226: The Dog Protection Act. This bill aims to reduce the number of dogs shot by officers of municipal police departments and sheriffs’ offices by requiring local law enforcement agencies to develop training programs to prepare local law enforcement officers for encounters with dogs in the line of duty. This training will emphasize how to recognize common dog behaviors and how to employ nonlethal methods to control or respond to dogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "3515402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3515402", "title": "Massachusetts Education Reform Act of 1993", "text": "Massachusetts Education Reform Act of 1993\n\nThe Massachusetts Education Reform Act of 1993 is legislation passed in Massachusetts mandating several modern educational reforms over a 7-year period. The reforms included the introduction of charter schools and the standardized test, the MCAS. It is based on Outcomes Based Education.\n"}
{"id": "9302185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9302185", "title": "Midnight breakfast", "text": "Midnight breakfast\n\nMidnight breakfast is a generic term for a communal meal served at some American colleges and universities, often served during finals week. Menu items that are generally considered breakfast foods are served in the school's dining hall late at night (hence \"midnight\") as a study break before or during final exams, or as a traditional community-building event. Sometimes food is served by faculty and staff. Midnight breakfast is an occasional event and should not be confused with school dining facilities that operate 24 hours a day on a regular basis.\n"}
{"id": "7905603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7905603", "title": "Ministry of Education and Science (Bulgaria)", "text": "Ministry of Education and Science (Bulgaria)\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Science (, \"Ministerstvo na obrazovanieto i naukata\") of Bulgaria is the ministry charged with regulating and promoting the educational and scientific work in the country. It was founded as the Ministry of Popular Enlightenment in 1879 and existed under this name until 1947, after which it changed its name numerous times. In 2009 the name changed from \"Ministry of Education and Science\" to \"Ministry of Education, Youth and Science\". In 2013, this change was reversed.\n\nThe national publishing house \"Az-buki\" under the Bulgarian Ministry of Education and Science currently publishes the weekly newspaper \"Az-buki\" (\"Аз-буки\" in Bulgarian) and 9 scientific journals. Its publications are intended for students, tutors, Bulgarian cultural centers and communities in and outside Bulgaria.\nNadia Kantareva-Baruh PhD is the director of the publishing house.\n\nThe first edition of the national newspaper \"Az-buki\" came out on April 10, 1991. The weekly publication continues the tradition of a newspaper, which started to come out in 1896. \"Az-buki\" is distributed by means of subscription and each individual issue is read by an average of 22,8 people.\n\nThe journals of \"Az-buki\" publishing house include scientific texts in Bulgarian and English, research papers and critiques of academic scientists and teachers. They can be used in research papers for publishing, they are mandatory for the purposes of educational qualifications and have been ordered almost 31 000 times including abroad. The oldest journals have history of almost 100 years since the first date of publication.\n\nThe list below includes nine scientific journals, which are indexed and referenced in Web of Science, Philosopher's Index, Scopus, ERIH PLUS, CEEOL, Google Scholar, Primo (Ex Libris), Summon (ProQuest), Sociological Abstracts, ИНИОН – РАН, EBSCOhost, Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\n\nSome of the \"Az-buki\" partners are state and international institutions, as well as Bulgarian and foreign universities. \"Az-buki\" and its partners collaborate to manage projects, such as \"Open line\" (Проект \"Открытая линия\"), \"Un-known in Sofia\" (Не-Познати в София), which resulted in the renovation and maintenance of the national monument on Polovrak peak.\n\nThe publishing house is an active participant in public initiatives, which are associated with development of educational practices, popularization of the achievements of Bulgarian science as well as activities associated with the development of young people.\n\n\"Az-buki\" has a portfolio in Béhance.\n\nThe national publishing house \"Az-buki\" has received a lot of certificates and prizes from the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, other governmental and public organizations and has received numerous greetings from the Bulgarian Prime Minister.\n\n"}
{"id": "8166984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8166984", "title": "Mooinjer veggey", "text": "Mooinjer veggey\n\nIn Manx folklore, the are small creatures from two to three feet (600 to 900 mm) in height, otherwise very like mortals. They wear red caps and green jackets and are most often seen on horseback followed by packs of little hounds of all the colours of the rainbow. They are rather inclined to be mischievous and spiteful.\n\nThe phrase is borrowed by the Anglo-Manx dialect to refer to fairies. Belief in fairies is or was formerly widespread in the Isle of Man. They live in green hillsides, more especially ancient tumuli. Anyone straying near these on a fine summer's evening would probably hear delightful music; but he must take care, especially if he is a musician, not to linger lest he should be entrapped. They are visible to people only when they choose. Some of them are benevolent, curing men of diseases and delivering them from misfortune. Others are malevolent, stealing children, even abducting adults, and bringing misfortune.\n\nIt was an old custom to keep a fire burning in the house during the night, so that the Fairies might come in and enjoy it. It is said that on dark, dismal and stormy nights, in the mountain parts of parishes, the people would retire earlier to rest, in order to allow to the weather-beaten Fairies the unwatched enjoyment of the smouldering embers of the turf fire. It was also customary to leave some bread out for the Fairies, and to fill the water crocks with clean water for them before going to bed. This water was never used for any other purpose, but was thrown out in the morning. Manxwomen would not spin on Saturday evenings, as this was deemed displeasing to the Mooinjer-Veggey, and at every baking and churning a small piece of dough and butter was stuck on the wall for their consumption. Both salt and iron were considered efficacious against malevolent charms.\n\n is the name of a charity on the Isle of Man that operates several Manx language pre-school playgroups and nurseries, with the aim of helping young Manx children to grow up bilingual. The charity also operates a Manx language primary school, , at St John's, under contract from the Department of Education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4265866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4265866", "title": "Ottoman Archives", "text": "Ottoman Archives\n\nThe Ottoman Archives are a collection of historical sources related to the Ottoman Empire and a total of 39 nations whose territories one time or the other were part of this Empire, including 19 nations in the Middle East, 11 in the EU and Balkans, three in the Caucasus, two in Central Asia, Cyprus, as well as Palestine and the Republic of Turkey.\n\nThe main collection, in the \"Başbakanlık Osmanlı Arşivleri\" (The Prime Minister's Ottoman Archives) in Istanbul, holds the central State Archives (\"Devlet arşivleri\").\n\nAfter more than a century in the center of the old city, the Ottoman state archives were relocated in 2013 to the Kağıthane district of Istanbul.\n\nThe present collection contains a few documents from the earliest period up to the reign of Sultan Süleyman in the sixteenth century. The organization of these records as a modern archive began in 1847 with the establishment of \"Hazine-i Evrak\". The original building was located on the grounds of the grand vezir’s offices in Gülhane and contained several main groups of documents: the records of the Imperial Council (Divan-i Hümayun) and the records of the grand vezir’s office (Bab-i Ali), as well as the records of the financial departments (Maliye) and cadastral surveys (tapu tahrir defteri). Mustafa Reşid Paşa ordered the building a new record office in 1846. It was completed by architect Gaspare T. Fossati in 1848. The office of \"Surveillance of Treasury of Documents\" was formed and Muhsin Efendi was appointed as its manager.\n\nWith the establishment of the Republic, the Hazine-i Evrak was transformed into \"Başvekalet Arşiv Umum Müdürlüğü\" (The General Directorate of the Prime Ministry) and eventually the Başbakanlık Arşiv Genel Müdürlüğü. During this period, the records of various nineteenth-century Ottoman offices and administrative authorities were added to the collections.\n\nConcurrent with these changes and additions, Turkish scholars took the first steps to classify and catalog the various collections beginning in the 1910s. These early efforts produced a number of classified collections (tasnif) which are still cited according to the name of the scholar who created the catalog. Today the work of cataloging the vast collection continues.\n\nAfter more than a century in the center of the old city, the Ottoman archives were relocated in 2013 to the Kağıthane district of Istanbul.\n\nThe Ottoman Archives not only contain information about the Ottoman dynasty and the Ottoman state, but also about each nation that holds part of these resources. Though touted as being open to all researchers, scholars have complained about being prevented access to view documents due to the nature of their research topic. However, plenty of Armenian Genocide researchers including the British-Armenian Ara Sarafian, as well as Taner Akcam (known for his research on and acceptance of the Armenian Genocide) have used the Ottoman archives in Istanbul extensively when citing research for their books though they have made claims that obstacles were put during their access.\n\nThe European Parliament stressed in a resolution voted on 15 April 2015, that Turkey should use the commemoration of the centenary of the Armenian genocide as an important opportunity to recognize the Armenian Genocide and open its archives.\n\nThe WikiLeaks cable 04ISTANBUL1074 classified and signed by David Arnett on July 4, 2004 at the Consulate General of the US in Istanbul states, that Turkey has eliminated incriminating documents concerning the Armenian Genocide from the Archives:\n\n\"According to Sabanci University Professor Halil Berktay, there were two serious efforts to purge the archives of any incriminating documents on the Armenian question. The first took place in 1918, presumably before the Allied forces occupied Istanbul. Berktay and others point to testimony in the 1919 Turkish Military Tribunals indicating that important documents had been \"stolen\" from the archives. Berktay believes a second purge was executed \nin conjunction with Ozal's efforts to open the archives by a group of retired diplomats and generals led by former Ambassador Muharrem Nuri Birgi.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57399", "title": "PILOT", "text": "PILOT\n\nProgrammed Instruction, Learning, or Teaching (PILOT) is a simple programming language developed in the 1960s.\nLike its younger sibling LOGO, it was an early foray into the technology of computer-assisted instruction.\n\nPILOT was developed by John Amsden Starkweather, a psychology professor at the University of California, San Francisco medical center. In 1962 he developed a simple language for automating learning tests called Computest. Starting in 1968, he developed a follow-on project called PILOT, for various computers of the time such as the SDS 940.\n\nA line of PILOT code contains (from left to right) the following syntax elements:\n\n\nA label can also be alone in a line, not followed by other code. The syntax for a label is an asterisk followed by an identifier (alphanumeric string with alphabetic initial character).\n\nThe following commands are used in \"core PILOT\". Lines beginning with \"R:\" indicate a remark (or a comment) explaining the code that follows.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe first match string (if any) that is a substring of the accept buffer is assigned to the special variable $MATCH. The buffer characters left of the first match are assigned to $LEFT, and the characters on the right are assigned to $RIGHT.\n\nThe match flag is set to 'yes' or 'no', depending on whether a match is made. Any statement that has a Y following the command letter is processed only if the match flag is set. Statements with N are processed only if the flag is not set.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nExtensions to core PILOT include arrays and floating point numbers in Apple PILOT, and implementation of LOGO-inspired turtle graphics in Atari PILOT.\n\nBetween 1979 and 1983 the UK PILOT User Group was run by Alec Wood a teacher at Wirral Grammar School for Boys, Merseyside UK. Several machine code versions of a mini PILOT were produced for the microcomputers of the time and a school in Scotland developed an interactive foreign language tutorial where pupils guided footprints around a town asking and answering questions in German, French etc. An article in Issue 1 December 1979 of Computer Age covered an early implementation called Tiny Pilot and gave a complete machine code listing.\n\nVersions of PILOT overlaid on the BASIC interpreters of early microcomputers were not unknown in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and Byte Magazine at one point published a non-Turing complete derivative of PILOT known as Waduzitdo by Larry Kheriarty as a way of demonstrating what a computer was capable of.\nA 1983 product called Vanilla PILOT for the Commodore 64 combined some features of LOGO, as did \"Super Turtle PILOT\" which was published as a type-in listing in the October 1987 issue of COMPUTE! magazine.\n\nIn 1991 the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) published a standard for Pilot as IEEE Std 1154-1991. It has since been withdrawn. A reference implementation based on this was implemented by Eric Raymond, and maintained—-reluctantly—-for the next 15 years.\n\nIn 1990 eSTeem PILOT for Atari ST computers was developed and programmed by Tom Nielsen, EdD. Based on the IEEE Standards for PILOT, it includes Atari-specific features such as control of Laserdisc and CDROM devices.\n"}
{"id": "49080541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49080541", "title": "Park Scholarships", "text": "Park Scholarships\n\nThe Park Scholarships Program is among the most prestigious undergraduate scholarship programs in the United States. The mission of the program is \"to bring exceptional students to North Carolina State University based on outstanding accomplishments and potential in scholarship, leadership, service, and character.\" The program aims to develop Park Scholars in these four tenets with the goal being preparing for lifelong contributions to the campus, state, nation, and world.\n\nThe Park Scholarships are named for the late Roy H. Park ’31, an NC State alumnus who endowed the Park Foundation, dedicated to education, media, and the environment. With a grant from the Park Foundation, the Park Scholarships program was established in 1996 \"to provide a superb educational opportunity for exceptionally talented and well-prepared young men and women who merit the intellectual challenge of a distinguished faculty and a superior university.\" Approximately 35 scholarships are awarded each year to high school seniors for undergraduate study in any discipline at NC State.\n\nThe following are the benefits offered by the Park Scholarships program to recipients, according to its website:\n\nPark Scholars are offered the following personal and professional development:\n\nThe selection process for the Park Scholarship is competitive. Out of nearly 2,150 applicants, about 35 high school seniors will be selected as Park Scholars for the Class of 2021.\n\nTo be eligible for the Park Scholarships, candidates must be applying for fall, freshman admission into a baccalaureate program at NC State. Successful applicants exhibit outstanding accomplishment and potential in the four tenets of scholarship, leadership, service, and character.\n\nInterested students may apply for the Park Scholarships Program in the Fall of their senior year of high school. Students must either be endorsed by their high school (October 1 deadline) or self endorse (October 25 deadline) to apply. Endorsed students may complete the Park Scholarships application supplement while applying for undergraduate admission to NC State.\n\nApplications are evaluated on the basis of accomplishment and potential in scholarship, leadership, service, and character. Of the almost 2,150 applicants for the Class of 2021, 400 Semifinalists were interviewed in January. Of these 400 Semifinalists, 112 were identified as Finalists and interviewed during Finalist Weekend at NC State in February. Approximately 35 Finalists will be selected as Park Scholars for the Class of 2021. All Finalists who do not receive the Park Scholarship are offered a $10,000 scholarship provided by NC State.\n\n"}
{"id": "43281932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43281932", "title": "Patrice Oppliger", "text": "Patrice Oppliger\n\nPatrice A. Oppliger (born 26 August 1963), is the assistant professor of communication at Boston University College of Communication.\n\nOppliger has written extensively about the impact of popular culture on student's high school years, and has been consulted by the media on the subject. Interviewed by CNN about cyberbullying, Oppliger discussed the film \"Mean Girls\", which is based on the book \"Queen Bees and Wannabes\" by Rosalind Wiseman. Oppliger accused the film of \"glamorizing bad behavior\", she went on to say that, \"The book is a helpful guide to relationships between girls; the movie, on the other hand, showed the positive side of being a mean girl.\"\n\nWFXT Fox25 News also interviewed Oppliger about Rockport High School's decision to ban female students from wearing yoga pants. She said that the school ought to have judged the students on a \"case-by-case\" basis instead.\n\nPatrice Oppliger gained her degree from the University of Nebraska at Kearney, her masters from the University of Maine, and her doctorate University of Alabama.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20904576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20904576", "title": "Pop Cutie! Street Fashion Simulation", "text": "Pop Cutie! Street Fashion Simulation\n\nPop Cutie! Street Fashion Simulation, known in Japan as That's QT, is a fashion design and business management simulation video game developed and published by Koei for the Nintendo DS handheld video game console.\n\nIn Pop Cutie!, the player is put in charge of a fashion boutique, and is required to design, and sell clothes. Making clothes requires collecting keywords, which certain combination of words creates certain pieces of clothing. To sell your clothes, you must set up a store, and stock it with your items, as well as hire employees to take care of the store. You are set against rivals, who like you are selling clothes. In game you can also take part in \"fashion battles\", in which you are put against a rival to design an outfit based on a certain number of items. Your outfit is then judged on several criteria.\n\nThe game is broke into several stages, in which you must meet a certain objective to get to the next stage. In different stages your store is located in a different part of town, as well, the size of your store also changes, as well as your rivals.\n\n\"Pop Cutie! Street Fashion Simulation\" received a score of 7.5 out of 10 from \"IGN\", and a score of 7/10 from Game Zone. Criticisms concerned the pace of the game, as well as the difficulty of controls at some points.\n"}
{"id": "4754921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4754921", "title": "Practising Law Institute", "text": "Practising Law Institute\n\nPractising Law Institute (PLI) is a non-profit continuing legal education (CLE) organization chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York. Founded in 1933, the company organizes and provides CLE programs around the world. Its programs are held in multiple locations including New York, California, Illinois, Washington D.C., Georgia, Massachusetts, Texas, Pennsylvania, London, and Hong Kong.\n\nPrograms are also offered in various formats, including live webcasts, MP3s, and on-demand videos. PLI's headquarters are located in New York City, New York; it also maintains an office in San Francisco, California.\n\nFounded in 1933, PLI was established to offer courses in the practice of law for lawyers recently admitted to the bar and/or those seeking to learn the elements of practicing in the field. As the country was seeing a transition from apprenticeship to formal law school education, a New York City lawyer by the name of Harold Seligson recognized the need for practical training in law and originated a series of lectures called “Practising Law Courses.” These lectures would be the germination of the full-fledged Institute that exists today under the banner of the Practising Law Institute (PLI).\n\nBy 1939, the Institute had been formally chartered by the Regents of the State of New York. It was able to take advantage of certain historical forces, including the New Deal and the federal regulation of business activity it inspired. The Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for example, initiated a new specialization in the law. This new specialization in turn created a need for a new kind of continuing legal education, which we see in practice today.\n\nAs a not-for-profit educational organization, PLI continues to offer pro bono programs and scholarships to lawyers and student in need of assistance. In 2012, PLI awarded over 26,000 scholarships.\n\nOn April 27th, 2015 the PLI Board of Trustees formally installed Anita Carr Shapiro as its fifth president. She succeeded Victor J. Rubino who was unanimously approved as President Emeritus after serving as PLI's President since 1983. \n\nPractising Law Institute’s mission statement, as stated on its website:\n\n"}
{"id": "20126924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20126924", "title": "Regent master", "text": "Regent master\n\nRegent master (\"Magister regens\") was a title conferred in the medieval universities upon a student who had acquired a master's degree. The degree meant simply the right to teach, the \"Licentia docendi\", a right which could be granted, in the University of Paris, only by the Chancellor of the Cathedral of Notre Dame, or the Chancellor of St. Geneviève. According to the Third Council of Lateran, held in 1179, this Licentia docendi had to be granted gratuitously, and to all duly qualified applicants.\n\nIf the new member stayed in the university and continued to take an active part in its teaching, he was called a \"magister regens\", a practising teacher. If he were to look for another career, however, he would become \"non regens\": a passive member of the corporation of masters, without losing his affiliation to it, which usually lasted for life.\nAn example of regent master was William Vorilong, French philosopher of the Middle Ages.\n\n"}
{"id": "468458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=468458", "title": "Ripley's Believe It or Not!", "text": "Ripley's Believe It or Not!\n\nRipley's Believe It or Not! is an American franchise, founded by Robert Ripley, which deals in bizarre events and items so strange and unusual that readers might question the claims. Originally a newspaper panel, the \"Believe It or Not\" feature proved popular and was later adapted into a wide variety of formats, including radio, television, comic books, a chain of museums, and a book series.\n\nThe Ripley collection includes 20,000 photographs, 30,000 artifacts and more than 100,000 cartoon panels. With 80-plus attractions, the Orlando-based Ripley Entertainment, Inc., a division of the Jim Pattison Group, is a global company with an annual attendance of more than 12 million guests. Ripley Entertainment's publishing and broadcast divisions oversee numerous projects, including the syndicated TV series, the newspaper cartoon panel, books, posters, and games.\n\nRipley first called his cartoon feature, originally involving sports feats, \"Champs and Chumps\", and it premiered on December 19, 1918, in \"The New York Globe\". Ripley began adding items unrelated to sports, and in October 1919, he changed the title to \"Believe It or Not\". When the \"Globe\" folded in 1923, Ripley moved to the \"New York Evening Post\". In 1924, the panel began being syndicated by Associated Newspapers, (formed as part of a cooperative that had included the \"Globe\"). That same year, Ripley hired Norbert Pearlroth as his researcher, and Pearlroth spent the next 52 years of his life in the New York Public Library, working ten hours a day and six days a week in order to find unusual facts for Ripley.\n\nOther writers and researchers included Lester Byck. In 1930, Ripley moved to the \"New York American\" and was picked up by the King Features Syndicate, being quickly syndicated on an international basis.\n\nRipley died in 1949; those working on the syndicated newspaper panel after his death included Paul Frehm (1938–1978; he became the full-time artist in 1949), and his brother Walter Frehm (1948–1989); Walter worked part-time with his brother Paul and became a full-time Ripley artist from 1978 to 1989. Others who assisted included Clem Gretter (1941–1949), Bob Clarke (1943–1944), Joe Campbell (1946–1956), Art Sloggatt (1971–1975), Carl Dorese, and Stan Randall. Paul Frehm won the National Cartoonists Society's Newspaper Panel Cartoon Award for 1976 for his work on the series. Clarke later created parodies of \"Believe It or Not!\" for \"Mad\", as did Wally Wood and Ernie Kovacs, who also did a recurring satire called \"Strangely Believe It!\" on his TV programs. Other strips and books borrowed the Ripley design and format, such as Ralph Graczak's \"Our Own Oddities\", John Hix's \"Strange as it Seems\", and Gordon Johnston's \"It Happened in Canada\". The current artist is John Graziano and current researcher is Sabrina Sieck.\n\nAt the peak of its popularity, the syndicated feature was read daily by about 80 million readers, and during the first three weeks of May 1932 alone, Ripley received over two million pieces of fan mail. Dozens of paperback editions reprinting the newspaper panels have been published over the decades. Recent \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" books containing new material have supplemented illustrations with photographs.\n\n\"Peanuts\" creator Charles M. Schulz's first publication of artwork was published by Ripley. It was a cartoon claiming his dog was \"a hunting dog who eats pins, tacks, screws, nails and razor blades.\" Schulz's dog Spike later became the model for \"Peanuts\"' Snoopy.\n\nSome notable books:\n\nA series of paperback books containing annotated sketches from the newspaper feature:\n\nRipley Entertainment produces a range of books featuring unusual facts, news stories and photographs. In 2004 Ripley Entertainment founded Ripley Publishing Ltd, based in the United Kingdom, to publish new \"Believe It or Not\" titles. The company produces \"the New York Times\" bestselling \"Ripley's Believe It or Not! Annuals\", the children’s fiction series \"Ripley’s RBI\", an educational series called the \"Ripley’s Twists\", the \"Ripley's Believe It or Not! Special Edition\" in conjunction with Scholastic USA and a number of other titles. At the height of his popularity Robert Ripley received thousands of letters a day from the public, and Ripley Entertainment continues to encourage submissions from readers who have strange stories and photographs that could be featured in \"Ripley’s Believe It or Not!\" books and media.\n\nThe people whose items are featured in such books as \"Strikingly True\", have what Edward Meyer, Vice President of Exhibits and Archives at Ripley Entertainment Inc. describes as an obsession. \"Whatever it is they're after, it is so important to them that all the rest of the world can go on without them. They want to make something that makes them immortal, makes them a little different than you and me.\" Despite the wide range of true and unbelievable art, sculpture, photographs, interactive devices, animal oddities, and recycled objects contained within the Ripley's collection, rarely considered are alien or witchcraft-type stories, which are, according to Meyers, difficult to prove. To be included in Ripley's Believe It or Not books, museums, or television shows, items must undergo scrutiny from Ripley's staff and be 100% authenticated.\n\nOn April 14, 1930, Ripley brought \"Believe It or Not\" to radio, the first of several series heard on NBC, CBS and the Mutual Broadcasting System. As noted by Ripley On Radio, Ripley's broadcasts varied in length from 15 minutes to 30 minutes and aired in numerous different formats. When Ripley's 1930 debut on \"The Collier Hour\" brought a strong listener reaction, he was given a Monday night NBC series beginning April 14, 1930, followed by a 1931–32 series airing twice a week. After his strange stories were dramatized on NBC's \"Saturday Party\", Ripley was the host of \"The Baker's Broadcast\" from 1935 to 1937. He was scheduled in several different 1937–38 NBC timeslots and then took to the road with popular remote broadcasts. \"See America First with Bob Ripley\" (1938–40) on CBS expanded geographically into \"See All the Americas\", a 1942 program with Latin music. In 1944, he was heard five nights a week on Mutual in shows with an emphasis on World War II. \"Romance, Rhythm and Ripley\" aired on CBS in 1945, followed by \"Pages from Robert L. Ripley's Radio Scrapbook\" (1947–48).\n\nRobert Ripley is known for several radio firsts. He was the first to broadcast nationwide on a radio network from mid-ocean, and he also participated in the first broadcast from Buenos Aires to New York. Assisted by a corps of translators, he was the first to broadcast to every nation in the world simultaneously.\n\nAs the years went on, the show became less about oddities and featured guest-driven entertainment such as comedy routines. Sponsors over the course of the program included Pall Mall cigarettes and General Foods. The program ended its successful run in 1948 as Ripley prepared to convert the show format to television.\n\nThe newspaper feature has been adapted into more than a few films and TV shows.\n\n\nOn October 4, 2004, Paramount Pictures announced plans for a film that would chronicle the life of Robert Ripley. The film would be produced by James Jacks and his Alphaville Films company, associated with Paramount. Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski were hired to write the script. Jacks explained, \"It's about the exploits of Robert Ripley, one of the most popular newspaper cartoonists in the '30s and '40s, who was well known for going around the world and looking for oddities and getting into adventures while doing so. We want to make a series of movies that, if not quite the truth, are the adventures that should have happened.\" Jacks also said, \"We want to turn it into an \"Indiana Jones\", a goofy version, as played by Johnny Depp. When they saw we had the writers from \"Larry Flynt\", they thought that we wanted to make the kinky version, but we saw a chance to do a Spielberg-type movie with one of their characters.\"\n\nOn November 29, 2005, it was announced that Tim Burton would direct the film, with Jim Carrey starring as Robert Ripley. Filming was to begin in October 2006, for a 2007 release. Paramount hinted that the film, if successful, could be the start of a \"Ripley's\" film series. In addition to Jacks, Sean Daniel and Richard D. Zanuck were also to serve as producers for the film. Zanuck spent six weeks in China to scout filming locations for the project.\n\nOn June 12, 2006, Paramount delayed the start of production on the film for at least a year because its projected budget went over the allowed $150 million. Carrey had waived his entire upfront salary to help keep costs low, but the project remained over budget. Burton and Carrey also wanted to have Alexander and Karaszewski make changes to the film's script to focus more on Ripley's \"Believe It or Not\" column. Carrey was adamant on avoiding what happened with his previous project, \"Fun with Dick and Jane\", which required reshoots and additional editing as a result of beginning production without a script. Filming had been scheduled to begin in China in November 2006. Although Paramount could have delayed production to spring 2007, the film was delayed further to allow Burton to film \"\".\n\nIn December 2006, Burton and Carrey approved writer Steve Oedekerk to rewrite the script. Oedekerk had worked with Carrey on several previous projects. Production was to begin in China in winter 2008, for a 2009 release. In January 2007, Zanuck said he was no longer involved with the project, and that he was unaware that it was proceeding. Oedekerk's draft was completed in June 2007, and was approved that month by Paramount, Burton, and Carrey. At that time, Carrey hoped to have production finished by summer 2008. Later that month, it was reported that Paramount may be searching for a new director.\n\nIn October 2008, Chris Columbus pitched an idea for the film that was approved by Carrey and Paramount. Columbus' idea involved scrapping the previous China-based storyline entirely. Negotiations were underway that month to hire Columbus as director, with plans to hire a writer afterwards. Paramount planned to release the film in 2011, and hoped that it would be the start of a \"Ripley's\" film series. In January 2011, Eric Roth was hired to write the script, with Carrey still attached to star. Ken Atchity and Chi-Li Wong joined the project as producers, alongside Jacks and Daniel.\n\n\n\nWhen Ripley first displayed his collection to the public at the Chicago World's Fair in 1933, it was labeled Ripley’s Odditorium and attracted over two million visitors during the run of the fair. (In an apparent promotional gimmick, beds were provided in the Odditorium for people who \"fainted\" daily.) That successful exhibition led to trailer shows across the country during the 1930s, and Ripley's collections were exhibited at many major fairs and expositions, including San Francisco, San Diego, Dallas, and Cleveland. In New York, the famed Times Square exhibit opened in 1939 on Broadway. In 1950, a year after Ripley's death, the first permanent Odditorium opened in St. Augustine, Florida.\n\n, there are 32 Ripley's \"Believe It or Not!\" Odditoriums around the world. Odditoriums, in the spirit of \"Believe It or Not!\", are often more than simple museums cluttered with curiosities. Some include theaters and arcades, such as the ones in Gatlinburg, Tennessee and Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin. Others are constructed oddly, such as the Orlando, Florida Odditorium which is built off-level as if the building is sinking.\nExpected to open summer 2016 is the first Odditorium in the Netherlands, at Dam square in Amsterdam.\n\n\n\nAmsterdam - The Ripley's Believe It or Not! Amsterdam museum opened on June 23, 2016 at the Dam Square, Dam 21, in a building that belongs to the Heritage of Amsterdam. It has more than 500 exhibits.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAuthorities at the company insist that they thoroughly investigate everything and ensure their accuracy before they publish their research. This is emphasized on their television show, where they often say \"If you see it on Ripley's, you can bet that it's real\". However, two claims appearing in their books have been dubbed \"myths\" by MythBusters.[Which ones?] One claim which had previously appeared in Ripley's books, concerning an accidental execution of 1,200 Turkish prisoners ordered under Napoleon Bonaparte, has had its accuracy called into question by Snopes.\n\n\"Ripley's\" has reported the urban legend of Frank Tower - an individual who was supposed to have survived the sinkings of the RMS \"Titanic\", RMS \"Empress of Ireland\", and RMS \"Lusitania\" - as being factual. However, this story has been debunked by several sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6756014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6756014", "title": "Royal Society of Thailand", "text": "Royal Society of Thailand\n\nThe Royal Society of Thailand (; , ), formerly known as the Royal Society of Siam, is the national academy of Thailand in charge of academic works of the government.\n\nThe secretariat of the society is the Office of the Royal Society of Thailand (; ), formerly known as the Royal Institute of Thailand (; ). The office is an independent department in the executive branch of Thailand and is not subject to any other agency.\n\nThe Royal Society of Siam was established on 19 April 1926 and was dissolved on 31 March 1933. The dissolved society was split into the Royal Institute of Thailand and the Fine Arts Department of Thailand. On 14 February 2015, the Royal Institute of Thailand was reorganised. Its administrative council became the Royal Society of Thailand, whilst the institute itself became the office of the society.\n\nAccording to the present structure, the members of the Royal Society of Thailand are of three types: associate fellows, fellows, and honorary fellows. The associate fellows are experts selected and appointed by the society. The fellows are associate fellows selected by the society and appointed by the monarch upon advice of the prime minister. And the honorary fellows are prominent experts selected by the society and appointed in the same manner as the fellows.\n\nThe society is widely known for its official roles in the planning and regulation of the Thai language, as well as its many publications, particularly the \"Royal Institute Dictionary\", the official and prescriptive dictionary of the Thai language, and the Royal Thai General System of Transcription, the official system for romanising Thai words.\n\nThe budget allocated to the Royal Society for FY2018 is 190.8 million baht.\n\nOn 19 April 1926, the Royal Society of Siam was established by King Prajadhipok. The society was later dissolved on 31 March 1933 and its divisions were incorporated into two new agencies. The academic divisions became the Royal Institute of Thailand. The archaeological divisions became the Fine Arts Department of Thailand.\n\nAccording to the \"Act on Royal Institute, 1934\", which took effect on 24 April 1933, the institute was a legal person sponsored by the government and the prime minister was in charge of the institute. The act gave the institute three main duties: to conduct research in all fields and publish the outcomes for the common good of the nation, to exchange knowledge with foreign academic bodies, and to provide academic opinions to the government and public agencies. Under the act, the institute members were selected by the institute itself and were appointed by the monarch upon approval of the cabinet and the House of Representatives.\n\nOn 1 April 1942, the \"Royal Institute Act, 1942\", entered into force. The act changed the status of the institute from a legal person to a public organisation and authorised the prime minister to directly command the institute. The act also modified the method of selecting the institute members. The members were selected and nominated to the monarch by the prime minister.\n\nOn 31 December 1944, the \"Royal Institute Act (No. 2), 1944\", came into operation. It again modified the institute status and the member selection method. The institute became an independent department commanded by the prime minister and its members were selected by the institute itself and were appointed by the monarch upon advice of the prime minister.\n\nOn 12 March 1952, the \"Administrative Reorganisation Act, 1952\", became operative. It changed the commander of the institute from the prime minister to the culture minister. On 1 September 1958, the \"Administrative Reorganisation Act (No. 6), 1958\", became effective. It again changed the commander of the institute from the culture minister to the education minister.\n\nOn 29 September 1972, Field Marshal Thanom Kittikachorn, leader of the junta called \"Revolutionary Council\", issued the Revolutionary Council Announcement No. 216 which once again modified the status of the institute. According to the announcement, the institute changed its status from an independent department to a government department which was not subject to any other agency and was commanded by the education minister.\n\nOn 13 November 2001, the \"Royal Institute Act, 2001\", entered into operation. Under the act, the institute was a government department which was not subject to any other agency. The act also improved the structure of the institute and increased its missions.\n\nOn 14 February 2015, the \"Royal Society Act, 2015\", came into force and reorganised the institute. Under the act, the administrative council of the institute, then known as Council of Fellows (สภาราชบัณฑิต), became the Royal Society, and the institute became the secretariat of the society, known as the Office of the Royal Society. The act granted many new powers to the office, including the powers to manage its own budgets, to provide advanced training in all fields of the society, and to confer certificates upon the trainees. A welfare fund for the society members was also established by the act. Many of the fellows objected to renaming the institute because no public hearing on the matter was held.\n\nOn 21 August 2006, the society relocated to offices at Sanam Suea Pa, near the Royal Plaza in Bangkok. Previously, the institute was located in the Grand Palace, Bangkok.\n\nFor administrative purposes, the society has four divisions:\n\nThe society's website states that each division has a staff of civil servants and clerical employees who perform both business and academic functions facilitating the works of fellows and associate fellows as well as conducting and promoting various academic activities.\n\nScholars from the academic community of Thailand can apply for membership in the society. Acceptance is based on an applicant's contributions to his field and his published works. The levels of membership in the institute are:\n\nOf these, only the title of associate fellow can be applied for. Fellows are appointed by the monarch as senior experts in the society within their field, chosen from among the existing associate fellows. Honorary fellows are likewise appointed by the monarch and are chosen from among scholars who are not already fellows of the society. These three groups can be collectively referred to as the members of the society.\n\nFellows of the society are divided into three academies. Each academy is subdivided into branches, and each branch includes several specific fields, totalling 137 different academic disciplines.\n\nThe official seal of the society is a shining sword behind an open book bearing a Pali word, \"paṇḍito\" (\"scholars\"). A crown floats upon the sword and a ribbon bearing the name of the society is below the book.\n\nThe sword and the book is based upon a saying, \"wisdom is on a par with weapon\" (ปัญญาประดุจดังอาวุธ). The light of the sword represents the light of wisdom. The crown represents the monarch.\n\nPerhaps the most well-known work of the society is the prescriptive \"Royal Institute Dictionary\" (พจนานุกรม ฉบับราชบัณฑิตยสถาน, in English often abbreviated RID).\n\nThe society has published four fully revised editions of the dictionary, and many intermittent reprintings with minor revisions. Each of the major revisions is associated with a significant year in Thai history, although in the case of the 1999 and 2011 editions, the actual publication date is a later year.\n\nThe Royal Society publishes guidelines for spelling loanwords in Thai.\n\nIn 2012, a proposed change brought about concerns and criticism among the public, when Professor Kanchana Naksakul, an RIT senior fellow, proposed the new spellings of Thai words borrowed from English. Thai words borrowed from English are spelled without tone marks, although they are pronounced tonally. The new spellings would add the marks to them.\n\nKanchana said that the new spellings were identified by the survey of some 300 people in the language circles who were of the same opinion that the spellings would better reflect how the words are pronounced in Thai and would assist the foreigners in learning Thai language.\n\nThe proposal was supported by the Ministry of Education and by many higher education lecturers, including those from Chulalongkorn University. But it met with heavy objections from secondary education teachers and the general public. Those objecting based their opinions on the fact that the survey was conducted on a small group of people and that English is not a tonal language and, therefore, Thai words borrowed from it need not to contain tone marks unless necessary. Some critics, including Kitmanoch Rojanasupya or Kru Lilly, a renowned Thai language teacher, expressed their concern that the proposal would turn Thai language system into turmoil. They also remarked that it is foreign learners who should adapt to Thai language structure, not to adjust the latter to the former.\n\nOn 1 October 2012, RIT secretary general Kanokwalee Chuchaiya declared that the proposal was merely a proposal and was pending internal proceedings scheduled to be concluded in December of that year. She confirmed that public hearings would be held on the new spellings, and that the 2011 dictionary does not contain these spellings, as its printing had already been completed. The situation also prompted RIT president, Professor Panya Borisut, to hold a rare press conference on the morning of 3 October.\n\nOn 17 December 2012, the RIT senate voted against the proposal, putting an end to it as a result.\n\nThe society publishes the Royal Thai General System of Transcription or RTGS, the official way of transcribing Thai into the Latin alphabet.\n\n"}
{"id": "25114247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25114247", "title": "Schmerenbeck Educational Centre for Gifted and Talented Children", "text": "Schmerenbeck Educational Centre for Gifted and Talented Children\n\nThe Schmerenbeck Educational Centre for Gifted and Talented Children, an organisation based at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, South Africa, promoted, encouraged and fostered the education of gifted children within South Africa. The centre was originally housed on campus in portable prefabricated buildings before it moved to a house in the Johannesburg suburb of Parktown opposite the University of the Witwatersrand's Education Department.\n\nIn 1970, lecturers in the Mathematics and Computer Departments of the University of the Witwatersrand were approached by parents of gifted children to provide challenging out-of-school activities. Thereafter, a group of lecturers established a steering committee chaired by Dr Ferrandi, and The Association for the Education of Gifted Children in South Africa (A.E.G.C.) was formed on 11 September 1971. Professor S.P. Jackson, deputy vice-chancellor and dean of the Faculty of Education, became the chairman. He held this position until 1979.\n\nIn 1971, over 150 school principals were approached to nominate pupils, who were then tested on individual intelligence tests by the Department of Psychology. 60 children were tested and 20 selected with scores over 140–160. Courses were offered in computers, mathematics, astronomy, television and chess to these 60 children, with higher level courses for the 20 highly gifted.\n\nIn 1973 Jackson visited the United Kingdom to research best practices and ensure that the programmes offered were on international lines.\n\nIn 1975 two members of the executive attended the First World Conference for Gifted and Talented Children in London.\n\nAccording to the constitution, adopted on 18 November 1975, the objective was to promote, encourage and foster the education of gifted children within South Africa through liaison, information and educational programmes for pupils, parents and teachers.\n\nIn 1973, Ami Schmerenbeck of Windhoek showed interest in the education of gifted children and the work of the A.E.G.C. After her death in April 1975, her sister, Suzanne Sittman, trustee of the Schmerenbeck estate, negotiated with Professor Bozzoli regarding the establishment of the \"Ami and Kurt Schmerenbeck Fund\". As the constitution of the A.E.G.C. was a voluntary association and not a corporate body, the funds were given to the university. The terms of the bequest stipulated that the money be used for the practical provision of educational courses for gifted students and not for research purposes. Professor Kahn, deputy vice-chancellor, became the university representative on the Executive of the A.E.G.C. In February 1978, a meeting was held with Prof Jackson and heads of Education and Psychology, the deputy vice-chancellor, and it was agreed that a director be appointed who would have an affiliation to a university department. In 1979 the first director, Beverly Kahn, was appointed.\n\nIt was agreed that a portion of the bequest be used to establish a centre for the activities of the A.E.G.C. and a prefab Hut A on campus was renovated, equipped and developed to suit the needs of the activities. Activities began in the building in January 1977 and on 26 February 1977 Sittman formally opened the \"Schmerenbeck Educational Centre\".\n\nAt a meeting of the A.E.G.C. 19 November 1980, under the chairmanship of Dr J.F. van Zyl, a resolution was passed that the university take over the Schmerenbeck Educational Centre (SEC) and that the A.E.G.C. be dissolved according to the constitution. The running of the SEC would fall under a Council Board of Control and an Advisory Committee. On 11 December 1980 the agreement with the university was signed.\n\nIn 1980 Dr Gillian Eriksson was appointed director and an administrative secretary was appointed. In 1981, due to increased numbers, a position of assistant to the director was created and receptionists were appointed. In 1991 Eva Biebuyck became the director. A clinical psychologist was appointed to do the assessments and placements.\n\nAs a result of local and international visits and research, the director presented a model for an effective operational education centre in a report in August 1981 (Eriksson, 1981). Objectives included: \n\nThe structure of the Centre would include four units:\n\nThis model formed the basis of the development of the SEC which operated a comprehensive system, not only providing services for a large group of gifted children but also forming the basis of advocacy for gifted education throughout South Africa and a catalyst for change. Teachers at the SEC were given in-service training and a publication was developed to guide the development of their courses and provide a range of appropriate strategies. The director taught courses in the Education Department and provided a range of workshops for parents and teachers on gifted education. Over this period it developed publications such as the journal \"Metamind\" in 1984 and a collection of student work, the \"Schmerenbeck Scrapbook\", edited by students.\n\nThe director took an active role in advocating for gifted children internationally, attending the world conferences and was elected a national delegate to the World Council for Gifted and Talented Children.\n\nThe SEC occupied a historical building at 3 Trematon Place from 1985.\n\n\"Trematon House started as a modest home for E Holmes in 1902. In 1910 the house was redeveloped as a boarding house with dormitories and bedrooms, a dining hall, kitchen and communal bathroom and toilets for the Parktown Preparatory School PTPS. The style is late Edwardian and Geoffrey E Pearse was the architect. Pearse was appointed the first Professor of Architecture at Wits in 1921 and had the distinction of being the first Professor of Architecture in South Africa. The Foundation stone was laid by Sir Lionel Phillips in 1913 and the project was completed in 1914. The PTPS building was itself demolished to make way for EOH. Wits acquired the building in 1963 and it served as the home of the Institute for Adult Education\" (Wits News room), then the Schmerenbeck Centre until 1992.\n\nIt was converted into a university residence and in 2010 Trematon House houses international students.\n\nThe SEC operated a comprehensive range of programmes with over 70 teachers and up to 1431 students in classes (largest number from 1986). As a result of the large numbers, the general classes were differentiated to serve specific types and ages of gifted children.\n\n\nFrom 1986, numbers began to drop due largely to the programmes created by the Transvaal Education Department which were initiated from 1982 and implemented in centres in 1986. Due to changes within the university in relation to the structure and financing of the SEC, the university decided to close the SEC in 1992.\n\nThe Advisory Committee and director, Eva Biebuyck, created a private entity to continue the work of the SEC and established premises in a private house in Oxford Road, Rosebank which continued to operate until 1995, when it was closed.\n\nEriksson. G.I. (1990) \"Initiation and Development of the Schmerenbeck Educational Centre: 1970-1990\". Report: University of The Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.\n\nEriksson, G.I. (1987) \"An Educational Centre for Growth: Johannesburg, Republic of South Africa.\" \"Gifted Child Today \", vol. 10 no. 4 pp. 25–28 Jul-Aug 1987. Retrieved from http://www.eric.ed.gov/ERICWebPortal/search/detailmini.jsp?_nfpb=true&_&ERICExtSearch_SearchValue_0=EJ358097&ERICExtSearch_SearchType_0=no&accno=EJ358097\n\nEriksson (1985) \"Reflections on Giftedness: A Guide for Students, Parents and Teachers\". Pretoria: HAUM Publishers\n\nAdams H. B.; Wallace, B (1993) \"World Perspectives on the Gifted Disadvantaged\". London: AB Academic\n"}
{"id": "3361497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3361497", "title": "Studienstiftung", "text": "Studienstiftung\n\nThe German Academic Scholarship Foundation (German: \"Studienstiftung des deutschen Volkes\", or \"Studienstiftung\" for short) is Germany's largest, oldest and most prestigious scholarship foundation. In line with its statutes, it supports \"the university education of young people who, on account of their exceptional academic or artistic talents and their personalities, can be expected to make an outstanding contribution to society as a whole\". The \"Studienstiftung\" is non-political, non-denominational and ideologically independent. Its headquarters are located in Bonn; it also has an office in Berlin. The current president is Reinhard Zimmermann, and it operates under the auspices of the President of Germany, Frank-Walter Steinmeier. \n\nThe \"Studienstiftung\" is funded by the federal government of Germany, the German federal states and local authorities, a large number of foundations and businesses as well as numerous private donors. In 2015, the \"Studienstiftung's\" budget was over €103 million. Since its foundation, it has supported over 65,000 students and doctoral candidates; it currently has over 60,000 alumni worldwide.\n\nThe selection process is extremely rigorous and only those students who show outstanding academic and personal promise are chosen. The Studienstiftung awards scholarships to fewer than 0.5% of German students. It is often referred to as Germany's \"secret elite university\".\n\nInitially founded in Dresden in 1925 as a department of the , an amalgamation of German student committees, the Studienstiftung des Deutschen Volkes was dissolved in 1934 under and replaced by the \"Reichsförderung\", a department of the newly founded . The Studienstiftung des deutschen Volkes was newly formed as a registered association in in 1948. As well as offering scholarship programmes on a national level, since 2005 the Studienstiftung has also run the Max Weber Programme, which supports exceptionally talented students within the framework of the Bavarian Elite Support Act (BayEFG).\n\nThe German Academic Scholarship Foundation supports exceptionally talented students and doctoral candidates selected in accordance with its mission statement, which is based upon the principles of achievement, initiative and responsibility. Scholars are admitted through various channels:\nIf admission occurs before the end of the fourth semester, sponsorship is usually granted until the end of the sixth semester. An extension of the scholarship beyond the sixth semester usually depends on academic performance in the first four semesters. In borderline cases, aspects other than academic achievements – such as exceptional social engagement or particular personal circumstances – may positively influence the decision to approve further funding. After an application has been approved, funding is awarded from the 6th semester until studies are completed (for example, until the master's degree or state examinations have been completed). In 2014, 91% of requests for further funding were approved.\n\nThe Studienstiftung supports scholars both financially and academically.\n\nFinancial support includes a study expense allowance (€300 month) and a need-based basic scholarship, which is calculated according to the BAföG (Federal Training Assistance Act) and can currently be up to 825 € per month. PhD students receive a monthly award of €1,250. Additional funds are provided for students and PhD students with children. Financial support is regulated by the guidelines of the German Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF).\nVisits abroad are also supported by grants or overseas allowances and the partial payment of tuition fees. Under the terms of No. 11 (EStG – German Income Tax Law) scholarship payments are tax-free.\n\nThe Studienstiftung's academic support includes , research groups, language courses, workshops and supervision by local tutors, who carry out this task for the Studienstiftung on a voluntary basis. Scholars are required to submit a report on their studies and other activities every semester during the first semesters (usually until the end of the fourth semester), and once a year thereafter. Grant holders can also apply for funding in order to organise their own conferences and other events.\n\nIn addition to its regular funding schemes, the Studienstiftung offers internal scholarship programmes for selected scholars and alumni. Examples include the KAUST-Studienstiftung programme, a joint partnership between KAUST and the Studienstiftung under the patronage of the German Federal Foreign Office which allows scholars from the STEM disciplines to join KAUST for research internships or to enroll in Master or PhD programs. In the musical field, for example, in cooperation with the Beethoven House residence scholarships are awarded for young composers.\n\nMoreover, the Studienstiftung offers open scholarship programmes which are run and financed in cooperation with other organisations. The best known programmes are the , the and the . Participation in these scholarship programmes does not require previous funding by the Studienstiftung.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStudienstiftung und Zeitgeschichte\n\n"}
{"id": "50023141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50023141", "title": "The Hands for Music Foundation", "text": "The Hands for Music Foundation\n\nThe Hands for Music Foundation, otherwise known as Hands for Music, is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization whose primary\npurpose is to bring musical instruction to children and teenagers suffering from mental disabilities and mental illnesses. It is both an in-school and after school program, in which high school music teachers, as well as peer students, teach students afflicted with mental illnesses a variety of different instruments.This charity has been able to raise funds to buy instruments in over 8 high schools in Connecticut. It has been successful in providing musical education for a variety of mental afflictions, including Down Syndrome, depression, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).\n\nStudent founder Jay Vankawala began constructing the Hands for Music Foundation in early 2013 while teaching a fellow student with Down Syndrome. \"Min-Jae\" needed peer interaction to foster social behavior, and Vankawala was selected to teach him piano. As he moved to high school, Vankawala wanted to expand his teaching to more students and to more schools. He founded the foundation initially as just Hands for Music, and extended the name as well as its reach under the guidance of music teacher Jennifer Crooks. However, many schools he visited lacked the facilities in order to make the program a success, and as such, it was officially registered as a 501(c)(3) charity in order to raise money for these instruments.\n\nThe Hands for Music Foundation's philosophy is similar to that of music instructional program Simply Music, in that it believes that \"any child can learn music.\" However, Hands for Music extends that claim to include children with mental disabilities. It believes that musicality is inherent within all humans, and as such, should be available to these students trying to assimilate into the public school system. \"A child's journey through Hands for Music is less of a musical journey and more of a social one,\" Vankawala says. He and his team have structured this charity for this reason.\n\nVolunteer students will raise money by performing and holding recitals within school. This money, along with donations from community donors, will be spent exclusively by schools to purchase musical instruments for mentally struggling students. These volunteers will also teach these students, and the pupils will hold recitals, continuing the cycle. In the process, it is hoped that teachers and students will become lifelong friends and increase one's sense of belonging in a community. As of March 2016, the Hands for Music Foundation has raised over $4,000 over the course of 2 years to fund projects in 6 high schools in southern Connecticut.\n"}
{"id": "59147176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59147176", "title": "Uzō Nishiyama", "text": "Uzō Nishiyama\n\nThe Uzo Nishiyama Memorial Library in Kyoto, which specializes in works relating to architecture and urban planning, is named after Nishiyama.\n"}
{"id": "858530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858530", "title": "Welsh Centre for International Affairs", "text": "Welsh Centre for International Affairs\n\nThe Welsh Centre for International Affairs (WCIA) is Wales's national forum for the exchange of ideas on international issues and is based at the Temple of Peace, Cardiff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54071390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54071390", "title": "Yavor Konov", "text": "Yavor Konov\n\nYavor Svetozarov Konov {Bulgarian Явор Светозаров Конов}, born 15 October 1964 in Sofia, Bulgaria, is a Bulgarian classical pianist, professor, author and translator of books, articles and textbooks in music.\n\nYavor Konov graduated piano from Lyubomir Pipkov National Music High School in Sofia (1983) and in 1991 – musicology (polyphony) and chorus conducting from National Academy of Music, Sofia. Four years later he finished harpsichord master class in Orvieto, Italy. Successfully presented his theses, Konov became Doctor of Art in 1998 and Doctor of Art Sciences in 2006.\n\nFor the period of November 1992 – November 2010 he worked at South-West University \"Neofit Rilski\" in Blagoevgrad. In 2005 Yavor Konov became Professor of Polyphony at the Department of Music at the Faculty of Arts. In 2008 he became Director of the University Resource Center for Francophone Studies at South-West University. Since December, 2010 Yavor Konov has been working as a professor at the Department of Music at New Bulgarian University, Sofia. He delivered lectures as a guest-lecturer at Sofia University and Krastyo Sarafov National Academy for Theatre and Film Arts, as well.\n\nBesides being a lecturer, prof. Konov was a co-founder and secretary of the Music Society \"Vassil Stefanov\" (Sofia). He was also a deputy editor-in-chief of the magazine “Music.Yesterday.Today” (Sofia, ISSN 1310-1443) from its setting up to 2012.\n\nYavor Konov has been married to Assoc. Prof. Dr. Theodora Bolyarova-Konova, PhD since 1999. They have 2 children – Theresa (2000) and Andrey (2007).\n\nProf. Yavor Konov is an author of more than 200 publications, including textbooks, annotated translations, monographs, articles, scientific studies, etc. \n\n\n\n\nHis contribution to music and musicology is highly appreciated by the most authoritative institutions in this field – the Studio of Studies at the Baroque Music Center in Versailles and the Faculty of Music and Musicology of the University in Paris (Sorbonne). Prof. Yavor Konov is identified as an \"Excellent Specialist\" (2009).\n“Round Table around Yavor Konov” was held on November 24-th, 2011 in the Library of Versailles. The event was organized in honor of Bulgarian edition of \"The Dictionary of Music\" by de Brossard and on the initiative of leading French musicologists. The case is considered to create a precedent in French-Bulgarian relations.\n\n\n"}
