{"id": "45290184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45290184", "title": "Agrarian structure", "text": "Agrarian structure\n\nAgrarian structure is the pattern of land (area group) distribution among landholders (agricultural households).\n"}
{"id": "45698847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45698847", "title": "Apollo Medskills", "text": "Apollo Medskills\n\nApollo Medskills is a medical skills development institute in India. It was set up in the year 2012 as joint venture between Apollo Hospitals and National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) as part of setting up more than 40 training institutes across the country to train and upgrade the skills of hospital workforce across the country.\n"}
{"id": "7457928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7457928", "title": "Athelia (disease)", "text": "Athelia (disease)\n\nAthelia is the congenital absence of one or both nipples. It is a rare condition. It sometimes occurs on one side in children with the Poland sequence and on both sides in certain types of ectodermal dysplasia.\n"}
{"id": "16973697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16973697", "title": "Australian Doctors International", "text": "Australian Doctors International\n\nFounded in 2000, ADI's goal is to improve the health of people in remote and rural areas of Papua New Guinea. ADI specialises in \"Doctor Supervised Integrated Health Patrols\", deploying volunteer doctors and health managers to work in partnership with local health providers to provide medical treatment to save lives and reduce suffering, community health education to reduce preventable illness and disease, and training to build the capacity of local health workers.\n\nIt was founded in 2000 by former Manly Mayor, politician and general practitioner, Dr Peter Macdonald. The organisation first started working in Western Province in partnership with the Catholic Diocese of Daru-Kiunga to help support their rural health network and services. In 2011 ADI expanded its program to remote and rural areas of New Ireland Province in partnership with the Provincial Government.\n\nIts key achievements include: \n\nAs part of its\"Doctor Supervised Integrated Health Patrols\", ADI’s volunteers travel by plane, boat and foot to remote and rural health centres, aid posts and hospitals to provide essential health care to people living in extreme poverty. Western Province, which is located on the border with West Papua, consists of raging rivers, steep mountain ranges up to 8,000m, vast floodplains and dense jungle. New Ireland Province, which is located off the mainland in the far northeast of PNG, consists of many isolated islands separated by rough seas. It can take weeks to complete a patrol in places such as the Star Mountains and Awaba River region in Western Province or Konoagil (otherwise known as The Last Corner by locals) in New Ireland Province.\n\nADI's services include:\n\n1. Medical treatment: To help save lives and reduce suffering, ADI’s doctors currently treat more than 3,500 patients every year. Some people have never seen a doctor before, others only once every couple of years. Consequently, ADI's doctors see many people in advanced stages of disease that could have been prevented. Common diseases and illnesses include malaria and tuberculosis, leprosy, lymphatic filariasis, muscular skeletal, respiratory and serious eye problems.\n\n2. Training and education: To help strengthen the capacity of local health workers, ADI’s doctors conduct case-based training during clinics and teach medical education sessions. Every year, ADI also facilitates an in-service health training which brings together health staff from various locations for a week of intensive learning with local and expatriate health experts.\n\n3. School and community health education: Many lives are lost due to a lack of knowledge about how diseases are caused, prevented and treated. To help with this, ADI’s doctors and health managers deliver health education talks which address PNG national health priorities and target specific groups. In 2010-2011, ADI’s volunteers gave health talks to over 15,000 adults and school children in Western Province.\n\nWhere possible, ADI's doctors work alongside local health workers who perform parallel services including infant immunisations, eye/ear testing and dental. In New Ireland Province, ADI travels with a large team of provincial and district health staff who undertake community health promotion, health centre management and dental, disease control and environmental health activities.\n\nApproved by AusAID as an OADGR, ADI is a member of ACFID and a signatory to its Code of Conduct. ADI aims for continuous improvement in health indicators as a result of its activities through the use of a structured monitoring and evaluation framework.\n\nPNG has not shown any sustained improvement in health since 2002. It is unlikely to meet any of the UN Millennium Goals, especially those on child and maternal mortality. Rural areas - where 86% of the population lives - are particularly disadvantaged, with 30% of health aid posts closed. The rest are often run-down and under-resourced. Doctor shortage is a major problem. Western Province has just 14 doctors - all urban based - for 212,000 people spread far and wide. This includes one doctor per 8,800 people in North Fly District and no doctor for 74,800 in Middle Fly District. New Ireland Province has just 10 local doctors - all based at Kavieng Hospital - for 160,000 people. Due to heavy workloads and lack of funding, they rarely visit rural health centres and aid posts.\n\nForty percent of deaths in PNG are caused by six diseases that can be easily and inexpensively treated at aid posts. Diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, pneumonia, diarrheal diseases, meningitis and HIV/AIDS account for about half of all deaths in PNG. Of every 1,000 children born, 69 will die before age five and another 53 won’t even survive their infancy. Five women die in childbirth every day and only two in five deliver at a health facility.\n\nPNG also has:\n- The highest rate of malaria in the Western Pacific, a leading cause of death in children under five in PNG;\n- The highest rate of lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis) in the world, with over 1 million people infected;\n- The highest rate of HIV/AIDS in the Pacific region - an estimated 34,000 people are HIV-positive;\n- The second highest incidence of leprosy in Western Province, despite the disease being treatable and virtually eradicated elsewhere in PNG;\n- High incidence of intestinal diseases, such as cholera and typhoid, due to contaminated food and water;\n- A worsening medical supply chain - only 50% of health centres/hospitals have adequate stocks of the most basic essential medicines.\n"}
{"id": "2708396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2708396", "title": "Back-to-back house", "text": "Back-to-back house\n\nBack-to-backs are a form of terraced houses in the United Kingdom, built from the late 18th century through to the early 20th century in various guises. Many thousands of these dwellings were built during the Industrial Revolution for the rapidly increasing population of expanding factory towns. Back-to-backs share party walls on three of their four sides, with the front wall having the only door and windows.\n\nAs back-to-backs were built as the cheapest possible housing for the impoverished working class, their construction was usually sub-standard. Their configuration did not allow for sufficient ventilation or sanitation. Toilets and water supplies were shared with multiple households in enclosed courtyards. Back-to-backs gained an unfavourable reputation for poor levels of health and hygiene.\n\nAround the mid-19th century, this form of housing was deemed unsatisfactory and a hazard to health. The passage of the Public Health Act 1875 permitted municipal corporations to ban new back-to-backs, replaced in the next phase of building by byelaw terraced houses. Leeds City Council opted not to enforce the ban however; the popularity of back-to-back houses with builders and residents led to their continued construction in Leeds until the 1930s.\n\nMost back-to-backs were demolished in waves of slum clearances, although many remain in Leeds and Bradford. Birmingham and Liverpool, where many thousands of these homes were built, each chose to retain a single example as a tourist attraction. The Birmingham Back to Backs is now operated as a historic house museum by the National Trust; other museum examples of back-to-back houses are managed by the Museum of Liverpool and Bradford Industrial Museum.\n\nLow quality houses were constructed for working class people at a high density, with scant regard for space, comfort or quality of life. Most back-to-backs were small: early examples had just a single room on each floor, while later houses were two-up two-down. Every house shared a rear wall, whether with a house directly behind or with an industrial building. Given that the house usually shared three of its four walls with neighbouring buildings, back-to-back houses were notoriously ill-lit and poorly ventilated. Such was the initial lack of consideration for hygiene, that some houses were found to have been built over open drains covered only by boards.\n\nThe term \"back-to-back\" should not be confused with \"through\" terraced houses, the backs of which face each other across an alleyway, and are thus not contiguous like a true back-to-back. Back-to-back houses can also be known as blind-backs, particularly when built up against factory walls, or occasionally as a terrace of houses standing on its own.\n\nPopulation in the city of Leeds was around 30 000 by 1800, which later doubled and then tripled, creating a problem of insufficient housing. The first back-to-back houses were built by 1790 in Briggate, Leeds, by opportunists who realised the structural setup allowed for a cost saving by not requiring roads or drainage, with population density housing up to 300 people in 60–75 properties per acre. There was no universally accepted blueprint for how the houses should be constructed; the worst (and often earliest) had a single room on each floor and no damp proofing. Sanitation comprised earth toilets in whatever available space existed, which may have been underneath bedrooms, and a public water supply from intermittent standpipes. Initially, houses were built around a communal courtyard, but later they were built onto streets. Houses of this type had become common in inner city areas of Victorian England, especially in Birmingham, Bradford, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Salford and in Nottingham, where about 7500 of their 11 000 houses (roughly 68 per cent) were built back-to-back. Town authorities were well aware that back-to-backs were undesirable, but seemed unable to prevent their construction. The Building and Improvement Committee reported to Bradford Council that more than three-quarters of new dwellings were \"laid out upon that objectionable principle\". The passage of the Artisans' and Labourers' Dwellings Improvement Act 1875 gave councils permission to compulsory purchase slum housing, but few took advantage of the opportunity.\n\nDuring the 18th and 19th centuries, owners of mills and mines built significant numbers of back-to-backs to maximize the number of workers that could live in the least amount of space, while keeping costs low. Advocates of the design suggested that they were easier to keep warm owing to their single outside wall, but the absence of rear yards meant there was no space for exterior toilets, only communal ones that spread diseases rapidly. In the oldest parts of Birmingham, early back-to-back houses were associated with filth, poor ventilation and pools of stagnant water, despite being home to the greatest number of working-class people within the city.\n\nRapid urbanisation led to fields and allotments disappearing in favour of cheaply built houses, often tightly packed together into the smallest space available. Houses were built on top of inadequate foundations and with substandard materials to reduce costs. Each house was separated by a single brick depth with a small room on each floor; ground-floor rooms served multiple purposes, as the remaining available space was used for bedrooms. By the 1830s, back-to-back houses had gained a reputation nationwide for spreading disease, and major cities including Manchester and Liverpool prohibited their construction in the 1840s and 1860s respectively. The Leeds Improvement Act of 1866 imposed regulations on the building of new houses, which included gated yards, wider streets and improved interior design. The Medical Officer for Health unsuccessfully sought to abolish their construction in about 1880, by which time population density had improved to 200 people living in 50–60 houses per acre.\n\nSignificant change came with the introduction of the byelaw terraced house to comply with the Public Health Act 1875. Further improvements were introduced in 1890, such as the inclusion of a basement or ground-floor kitchen, a small garden and a private toilet for each household. Subsequent acts including the Housing of the Working Classes Act 1885 and the Housing of the Working Classes Act 1890 imposed additional construction requirements.\n\nLeeds appears to have been a special case. Figures from 1899 suggest that 72 per cent of all houses constructed annually in that city were back-to-back, identical to 15 years prior, a percentage that did not decrease until 1914. Small families with children in the city had little choice but to live in back-to-back houses, as they dominated the affordable market. It was anticipated that the byelaw terraced house regulation would prevent the construction of back-to-back houses, yet Leeds Council initially opted not to enforce it, particularly where building contractors unmotivated by social or aesthetic considerations could influence decisions to ensure their own contracts and interests were put ahead of build quality. Consequently, the density of housing in some areas, as well as its manner of construction, had adverse effects on sale and rental prices, particularly as other towns offered houses with greater space and improved sanitation; a new property built in Sunderland would have been provided with its own water closet, while a new property in Leeds may have had one shared, up until 1912.\n\nBy the turn of the 20th century, back-to-back houses had become unpopular with residents and the government, who sought to ban their construction and eradicate existing properties nationwide. Among the primary concerns cited were health and ventilation, as statistics were revealing that residents of back-to-back houses suffered from relatively poor health. In Manchester, Dr James Niven noted that mortality rates among those living in back-to-back houses exceeded those from through-houses by 40 per cent, along with an increased incidence of infectious diseases and diarrhoea. A change in the law in 1909 forbade the erection of this style of house.\n\nThe advent of council housing after the First World War resulted in councils organising programmes of statutory slum clearances as part of post-war housing redevelopment programmes. Such initiatives gathered pace in the 1920s, with the beginning of mass demolition of back-to-back houses and the construction of \"homes fit for heroes\".\n\nIn Leeds during the early 20th century, the local council had spent about £1 million (equivalent to £ in ) in acquiring older, inadequate back-to-back houses for demolition, while continuing to build improved ones of a similar style until 1937, despite being outlawed in 1909 when it was decided that houses should be of an overall higher quality. By 1926, Leeds had 72 000 of these houses, of which 32 000 were described by Dr Christoper Addison as being \"abominations\", having been condemned as unfit for many years by that time, despite still being lived in; only 12 000 (less than 17 per cent) were given a moderate health pass by Neville Chamberlain's Unhealthy Areas Committee. Other cities had smaller numbers, such as Bradford and Nottingham (5000) respectively. MP Sir John Birchall described Leeds in 1930 as having \"an unenviable notoriety for its back-to-back houses\", although popularity among residents had increased. He unsuccessfully proposed in 1930 to permit the construction of back-to-back houses in blocks of four, given that back-to-backs were generally cheaper to build than standard through houses and that having two external walls per property would alleviate the ventilation concerns that plagued earlier residences.\n\nFollowing the Second World War and the Blitz aerial bombing of industrial cities, Britain was ready for a new wave of slum demolition and construction of more suitable housing. For example, Birmingham had about 40 000 back-to-backs in 1931 but only 29 182 by September 1946.\n\nIn Leeds around 1953, there were 30 000 people waiting for council housing, of which 16,000 comprised back-to-back housing built before 1844 that were pending clearance as slum housing. Prior to 1844, the quality was sub-standard and 16 000 of these were inhabited during 1951, compared to a further 28 000 slightly better houses, which had been constructed between 1844 and 1874. The pre-1844 houses were by that time in a state of disrepair and overcrowding was a concern, particularly when families were occupying what was originally intended for single or dual occupancy.\n\nBy 1959, Leeds and Birmingham each had 60 000 back-to-back houses, and Members of Parliament were calling for the demolition to be accelerated. William Wheeldon, a Labour and Co-operative MP, pointed out that \"the most distressing thing\" was that little had changed in generations:\nNationwide demolition continued through the 1960s and 1970s. Towards the end of the 1970s, Leeds was the second largest city outside London that still had around 30,000 back-to-back houses. By the 1980s, most towns had few or no back-to-backs remaining.\n\nLeeds and its surrounding region is the only area where back-to-back houses still exist in large numbers, having been refurbished to include \"mod cons\" such as indoor bathrooms and central heating. These modernised back-to-backs are popular with residents because they are easier to maintain than typical houses. The houses have proved to be popular with buy to let investors, who helped to increase prices significantly during the early-mid 2000s. The house style is also popular among student populations, as little exterior maintenance is required and they are often close to universities and colleges, particularly in the areas of Headingly, Burley and Kirkstall.\n\nAlthough banned by existing building regulations for new builds, architects are keen for the regulations to be relaxed, particularly as many of the historical health concerns associated with back to-back-housing, such as open sewers and communal toilets, are no longer relevant.\n\nA study was conducted in 2008 to canvass the views of the communities living in these properties, to help ensure that they could continue in use into the 21st century. Seventy-five per cent of those questioned suggested that the heritage value of the houses was important to the identity of Leeds. Overall, 51 per cent of respondents were positive, and 45 per cent felt negatively towards them. Residents of these back-to-backs generally felt strongly about their heritage value, but their opinions were not valued as highly as non-residents or professionals. Despite the feedback, there was insufficient recognition that the properties should be protected because of their perceived heritage value.\n\nThe Birmingham Back to Backs are a historic house museum created by The National Trust for the city's last remaining back-to-back houses. The dweillings are furnished as they would have been in the 19th century and are now Grade II listed buildings. According to the BBC, this is the last example of such housing grouped around a court.\nIn Liverpool, back-to-back court housing was once home to more than 40 per cent of its population, before demolition during the 1960s and 1970s as part of slum house clearance programmes. A set of nine pairs of these houses survived and were restored as part of a museum attraction. A proposal to preserve and restore the city's last surviving court housing block was made in 2016, with structural work taking place to secure the building, as well as a new roof to prevent further water damage. The project would complement the existing court dwellings at the Museum of Liverpool which opened in 2011 and recreates a former street from 1870 in the area around Scotland Road.\n\nThe Bradford Industrial Museum has a block of back-to-backs decorated as dwellings of 1875, the Second World War, and the 1970s.\n\nCitations\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "9120349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9120349", "title": "Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University", "text": "Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University\n\nBangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University () is the first public medical university in Bangladesh established in 1998. The university offers courses like MD, PhD, MS, MPhil, MDS, Diploma and FCPS. There is no undergraduate medical or dental course.\n\nEstablishment of the Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University was an upgrade of the Institute of Postgraduate Medicine and Research (IPGMR). IPGMR was established in December 1965, as a Government-controlled postgraduate institute for medical research and studies. It was housed in the now defunct Hotel Shahbag, once the biggest hotel in Dhaka. The neighbourhood got its name Shahbag from the name of the hotel.\n\nFrom 2010, many of the medical and public health colleges/institutes have become affiliated to BSMMU. For example, BIRDEM, BIHS, DMC, NICVD, NITOR and others.\n\nMany foreigners, notably from Nepal and Bhutan, study at the university.\n\nIt was renamed as Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University by the Act 1, 1998 of Jatiyo Sangshad after the first President of Bangladesh, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.\n\nThe university is an autonomous body governed by a 24-member syndicate. BSMMU comprises 42 departments under 6 faculties. The university campus is located at Shahbag and has a 1900-bed hospital.\n\nBSMMU has an academic library known as BSMMU Central Library, and a digital library. The University publishes a peer-reviewed medical journal Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University Journal. It publishes 4 issue per year.\n\n\nBSMMU campus has five multistoried buildings called Blocks A, B, C, D, E, OPD-1, OPD-2 and Cabin Block.\n\nMS Faculty of Dentistry\n\n1) Conservative dentistry and endodontics\n\n2) Prosthodontics\n\n3) Orthodontics\n\n4) Child and Preventive dentistry\n\n5) Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery\n\nPhase-A 2 years and Phase-B 3 years\n\n\nPhase-A 2 years Phase-B 3 Years\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41341790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41341790", "title": "Branchio-oculo-facial syndrome", "text": "Branchio-oculo-facial syndrome\n\nBranchio-oculo-facial syndrome (BOFS) is a disease that arises from a mutation in the TFAP2A gene. It is a rare autosomal dominant disorder that starts to affect a child's development before birth. Symptoms of this condition include skin abnormalities on the neck, deformities of the ears and eyes, and other distinctive facial features such a cleft lip along with slow growth, mental retardation and premature graying of hair.\n\n\"Branchio\" refers to the branchial arches, also known as the pharyngeal arches, of the affected individual. The branchial arches are structures in the developing embryo that give rise to certain tissues in the neck and facial area. In individuals affected by this condition, the branchial arches fail to develop properly. This leads to some of the physical conditions of this syndrome, which include abnormal patches of skin on the neck and face region and can be abnormally hairy, thin or red and with a high number of blood vessels. \"Oculo\" refers to the eyes. Individuals have vision impairment due to several malformations in the eyes such as small eyeballs, blockage in the tear ducts or lacking eyes completely. \"Facial\" refers to the face; those affected can have several abnormalities in that region. These abnormalities include a cleft lip, a cleft palate which is an opening in the roof of the mouth, widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism), sharp corners of the mouth that point upward, a broad nose that can include a flattened tip, along with several deformations of both the external and middle ear structures. This syndrome is restricted to the face, but it can also cause underdeveloped or malformed kidneys.\n\nThe disease is genetically inherited and stems from a mutation that deletes the TFAP2A gene. This gene is important because it provides the blueprint for the arrangement of 437 amino acids that make up the protein transcription factor known as AP-2 alpha. This protein transcription factor binds to a carboxy terminus helix-span-helix motifand an amino terminus portion of DNA that affects the activity of numerous cellular activities such as cell division and apoptosis. AP-2 alpha is especially important during the embyros development principally in the development of the branchial arches. Currently there are also four other proteins that are affected by the deletion of TFAP2A gene as well. One is L249P, this protein changes to cause a conformational space change with a substituted proline. Furthermore, a change in the R254W and R255G proteins results in a replacement of a charged polar side chain by a nonpolar side chain, and lastly, an alteration in the G262E protein results in a nonpolar side chain being replaced by a charged polar side chain.\n\nBranchio-oculo-facial syndrome is difficult to diagnose because it has incomplete penetrance. It is often misdiagnosed as branchio-oto-renal syndrome because of their similarities in symptoms.\n\nIt was estimated that only about 50 cases of BOFS have been documented in the medical literature as of 2004.\n"}
{"id": "2659232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2659232", "title": "Bruce Eisner", "text": "Bruce Eisner\n\nBruce Jay Ehrlich (February 26, 1948 – January 1, 2013), better known by his pen name Bruce Eisner, was an American writer, psychologist, and counterculture spokesman best known for his book \"Ecstasy: The MDMA Story\".\n\nEisner was born in Brooklyn, New York. At age 2, he moved with his family to the San Fernando Valley near Los Angeles where he lived for the next 25 years. His first publication was at age 16, when he won an LA County-wide essay contest. The essay, \"Democracy and What It Means to Me\" was published in the Congressional Record by Congressman Ed Reinecke.\n\nEisner attended San Fernando Valley State College (now known as California State University, Northridge) where he was on the Deans List for his first two years of attendance. In his third year, he became an anti-Vietnam War activist and joined the Students for a Democratic Society. At the end of his third year, in 1969, he dropped out of college and moved to Laguna Beach which was then home base for Timothy Leary and the Brotherhood of Eternal Love. In the fall of 1969, Eisner first went to Europe where he lived in the Netherlands and then traveled overland to India.\n\nIn January 1970, Eisner returned to Los Angeles where he became a freelance journalist writing feature articles on topics focusing on LSD and the psychedelic consciousness movement for the \"Underground Press.\" He wrote articles for the \"Los Angeles Free Press\" edited by Art Kunkin, the Los Angeles Star and a variety of other small publications. In 1976, he became a contributing editor for \"High Times\" magazine and wrote a series of article including \"LSD Purity\" and \"Who Turned on Whom\" with Peter Stafford. Also, in 1976, Eisner traveled to Europe where he met author Michael Hollingshed in England and LSD discoverer Albert Hofmann in Basel, Switzerland.\n\nIn 1977, Eisner moved from Los Angeles to Santa Cruz, California. He became one of the leaders of a group of psychedelic movement activists. That group known as Linkage brought Albert Hofmann to UC Santa Cruz in 1977 for his first public lecture in the US at a conference called \"LSD: A Generation Later.\" The conference was attended by both counterculture figures such as Timothy Leary PhD, Allen Ginsberg, Ram Dass, Stephen Gaskin, and Ralph Metzner PhD, as well as early psychedelic researchers including Oscar Janiger, MD, William McGlothlin, PhD, Stanley Krippner, PhD, Claudio Naranjo, MD and Willis Harman PhD.\nEisner received his B.A.in psychology from the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1979. He moved to Goleta California for two years and received his M.A. in psychology from the University of California, Santa Barbara. Eisner worked as a Teaching Assistant at U.C. Santa Barbara. In 1980, he became a contributing writer for \"Omni\" magazine.\n\nEisner returned to Santa Cruz in 1981 and in 1982 moved into a home near Natural Bridges State Beach where he lived for the next 21 years. He began working on his PhD in Psychology from Saybrook Graduate School and Research Center in 1982 but withdrew before completing a dissertation in 1988. In 1989, Eisner started a self-improvement software company called Mindware, which published a catalog of mind tool and personal development software programs called the Mindware Catalog until 1995.\n\nIn 1990, Eisner started the Island Group, which produced salons that encouraged discussions surrounding the creation of a \"psychedelic culture\". The group was named after the 1962 \"Island\" by Aldous Huxley. The Island Group conceived and co-organized the 1992 \"The Bridge: Linking the Past, Present and Future of Psychedelics\" a two-day conference held at Stanford University. Island also conceived and co-organized \"Bicycle Day: Celebrating 50 Years of LSD\" at the University of California Santa Cruz, in April 1993.\n\nEisner created the Mind Media Life Enhancement Network in 1996, one of the first websites that provided a portal to other self-improvement and personal development websites.\n\nIn 1998, Eisner transformed his \"Group\" into the Island Foundation—a 501 (c)(3) non-profit organization; however, the Foundation's exempt status was automatically revoked by the IRS after Eisner failed to file taxes for three consecutive years.\n\nIn 2003, Eisner moved to Las Vegas, Nevada to be close to his mother, Irene, who died in 2009 at age 82.\n\nBruce died on New Year's Day 2013 at his home in Las Vegas from a gastrointestinal hemorrhage. He was working on his online book, \"Future Culture: How to Make New Memes to Change the World\", when he died.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3115848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3115848", "title": "Cardiorespiratory fitness", "text": "Cardiorespiratory fitness\n\nCardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) refers to the ability of the circulatory and respiratory systems to supply oxygen to skeletal muscles during sustained physical activity. The primary measure of CRF is VOmax. In 2016, the American Heart Association published an official scientific statement advocating that CRF be categorized as a clinical vital sign and should be routinely assessed as part of clinical practice. \n\nRegular exercise makes these systems more efficient by enlarging the heart muscle, enabling more blood to be pumped with each stroke, and increasing the number of small arteries in trained skeletal muscles, which supply more blood to working muscles. Exercise improves not just the respiratory system but the heart by increasing the amount of oxygen that is inhaled and distributed to body tissue. A 2005 Cochrane review demonstrated that physical activity interventions are effective for increasing cardiovascular fitness.\n\nThere are many benefits of cardiorespiratory fitness. It can reduce the risk of heart disease, lung cancer, type 2 diabetes, stroke, and other diseases. Cardiorespiratory fitness helps improve lung and heart condition, and increases feelings of wellbeing. Additionally, there is mounting evidence that CRF is potentially a stronger predictor of mortality than other established risk factors such as smoking, hypertension, high cholesterol, and type 2 diabetes. Significantly, CRF can be added to these traditional risk factors to improve risk prediction validity.\n\nThe American College of Sports Medicine recommends aerobic exercise 3–5 times per week for 30–60 minutes per session, at a moderate intensity, that maintains the heart rate between 65–85% of the maximum heart rate.\n\nThe cardiovascular system responds to changing demands on the body by adjusting cardiac output, blood flow, and blood pressure. Cardiac output is defined as the product of heart rate and stroke volume which represents the volume of blood being pumped by the heart each minute. Cardiac output increases during physical activity due to an increase in both the heart rate and stroke volume. At the beginning of exercise, the cardiovascular adaptations are very rapid: “Within a second after muscular contraction, there is a withdrawal of vagal outflow to the heart, which is followed by an increase in sympathetic stimulation of the heart. This results in an increase in cardiac output to ensure that blood flow to the muscle is matched to the metabolic needs”. Both heart rate and stroke volume vary directly with the intensity of the exercise performed and many improvements can be made through continuous training.\n\nAnother important issue is the regulation of blood flow during exercise. Blood flow must increase in order to provide the working muscle with more oxygenated blood which can be accomplished through neural and chemical regulation. Blood vessels are under sympathetic tone; therefore, the release of noradrenaline and adrenaline will cause vasoconstriction of non-essential tissues such as the liver, intestines, and kidneys, and decrease neurotransmitter release to the active muscles promoting vasodilatation. Also, chemical factors such as a decrease in oxygen concentration and an increase in carbon dioxide or lactic acid concentration in the blood promote vasodilatation to increase blood flow. As a result of increased vascular resistance, blood pressure rises throughout exercise and stimulates baroreceptors in the carotid arteries and aortic arch. “These pressure receptors are important since they regulate arterial blood pressure around an elevated systemic pressure during exercise”.\n\nAlthough all of the described adaptations in the body to maintain homeostatic balance during exercise are very important, the most essential factor is the involvement of the respiratory system. The respiratory system allows for the proper exchange and transport of gases to and from the lungs while being able to control the ventilation rate through neural and chemical impulses. In addition, the body is able to efficiently use the three energy systems which include the phosphagen system, the glycolytic system, and the oxidative system.\n\nIn most cases, as the body is exposed to physical activity, the core temperature of the body tends to rise as heat gain becomes larger than the amount of heat lost. “The factors that contribute to heat gain during exercise include anything that stimulate metabolic rate, anything from the external environment that causes heat gain, and the ability of the body to dissipate heat under any given set of circumstances”. In response to an increase in core temperature, there are a variety of factors which adapt in order to help restore heat balance. The main physiological response to an increase in body temperature is mediated by the thermal regulatory center located in the hypothalamus of the brain which connects to thermal receptors and effectors. There are numerous thermal effectors including sweat glands, smooth muscles of blood vessels, some endocrine glands, and skeletal muscle. With an increase in the core temperature, the thermal regulatory center will stimulate the arterioles supplying blood to the skin to dilate along with the release of sweat on the skin surface to reduce temperature through evaporation. In addition to the involuntary regulation of temperature, the hypothalamus is able to communicate with the cerebral cortex to initiate voluntary control such as removing clothing or drinking cold water. With all regulations taken into account, the body is able to maintain core temperature within about two or three degrees Celsius during exercise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20671750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20671750", "title": "Childrens Hospital", "text": "Childrens Hospital\n\nChildrens Hospital (originally titled Children's Hospital as webisodes) is an American black comedy television series and web series that parodies the medical drama genre, created by and starring actor/comedian Rob Corddry. The series began on the web on TheWB.com with ten episodes, roughly five minutes in length, all of which premiered on December 8, 2008. Adult Swim picked up the rights to the show in 2009 and began airing episodes in 2010.\n\nThe storyline centers on the staff of Childrens Hospital, a children's hospital named after Dr. Arthur Childrens. The hospital sporadically (and usually without reason) is mentioned as being located within Brazil, despite making virtually no effort to conceal that the series is shot in Los Angeles, California. Corddry is part of an ensemble cast portraying the hospital's doctors, which also includes Lake Bell, Erinn Hayes, Rob Huebel, Ken Marino and Megan Mullally. Malin Åkerman and Henry Winkler joined the cast for season two. Previously recurring Zandy Hartig and Brian Huskey were upped to series regulars in season five, but became recurring cast members again from season 6 onward.\n\nOn June 2, 2015 it was renewed for a seventh season, which premiered on January 22, 2016. Rob Corddry announced that season 7 would be the show's final season, and its final episode aired on April 15, 2016.\n\n\"Childrens Hospital\" is a product of TheWB.com. Its webisodes are about 4–5 minutes long, each narrated by mainly Dr. Cat Black (Lake Bell) in Season 1, and by Dr Valerie Flame (Malin Åkerman) in Season 2. The show mocks such medical dramas as \"St. Elsewhere\", \"House\", \"Grey's Anatomy\", \"General Hospital\", \"Private Practice\", \"Chicago Hope\", \"ER\", and \"Scrubs\".\n\nThough Comedy Central made a competing offer, the show was picked up by Adult Swim after Corddry decided the comedy style was not suited for the half-hour format Comedy Central wanted. Adult Swim offered half-hour or fifteen-minute time slots, and Corddry chose the latter. The original season one webisodes began airing on Adult Swim on July 11, 2010, in groups of two with a new faux-commercial in between the groupings of two webisodes. The channel then debuted the newly produced season two episodes which began airing on August 22, 2010.\n\nOn September 1, 2010 \"Childrens Hospital\" began airing on the Canadian television channel G4. In Winter 2013, the show was picked up by MuchMusic In Australia \"Childrens Hospital\" premiered on cable on Comedy Channel on January 26, 2011, and on ABC's free-to-air channel ABC2 during May–June 2013. The series began airing repeats on American cable channel TBS beginning October 20, 2014.\n\nThe series revolves around the medical staff of Childrens Hospital, featuring an ensemble cast.\n\nThese actors receive top billing in the credits:\n\n\n\nThe series occasionally presents fictional \"behind-the-scenes\" episodes, supposedly chronicling the production of the series. These episodes portray \"Childrens Hospital\" as a long-running medical drama and typically feature interviews with the self-absorbed, eccentric cast members (also fictional characters). The first such episodes were presented as clips from a fictional \"60 Minutes\"-style newsmagazine entitled \"Newsreaders\", which was later spun off into its own Adult Swim series. These fictional cast members have stories of their own:\n\nDuring the first three seasons, portions of the show were filmed in North Hollywood Medical Center, the same former hospital used for filming \"Scrubs\" and several other movies and television programs, until its demolition in 2011. As a parody of the live episode \"Ambush\" of \"ER\", the season two finale (aired November 7, 2010) was promoted as a live broadcast.\n\nDespite the low ratings compared to other cable television series, \"Childrens Hospital\" still has received its highest ratings to date on its midnight (Eastern Time) slot. On Friday, September 3, 2010, it pulled in 525,000 viewers while the next Sunday yielded 551,000 (in the 18–34 demographic).\n\nThe mock television advertisements presented with the Adult Swim broadcasts of \"Childrens Hospital\" season one tied into future Adult Swim programs. A commercial for a crime procedural parody led to the show \"\" (\"National Terrorism Strike Force: San Diego: Sport Utility Vehicle\"), which ran from 2011 to 2013. Similarly, a commercial featuring Chris Elliott promoting a fictional health drink called \"Nutricai\" turned out to be a tie-in with an episode of the upcoming series \"Eagleheart\", one episode of which featured Elliott's character joining a multi-level marketing business selling the product.\n\nSome episode of \"Childrens Hospital\" featured a fictional TV show called \"Newsreaders,\" a parody of the CBS show \"60 Minutes;\" this led to \"Newsreaders\" being picked up as its own show on Adult Swim, premiering in January 2013. Former \"Daily Show\" co-executive producer Jim Margolis served as showrunner, developing the series with \"Childrens Hospital\" creators Wain, Corddry, and Jonathan Stern.\n\nIn 2011, Corddry stated that the cast and creative team of \"Childrens Hospital\" were working on doing a movie together, separate from \"Childrens Hospital\", with a different story and characters. In 2017, Corddry announced that a spin-off series of \"Childrens Hospital\" was in development: a global mystery/thriller structured around a season-long serial narrative. The new series is to feature a number of the original cast, and share the comedic tone of \"Childrens Hospital\", but will be unlike \"Childrens\" in most other respects.\n\n"}
{"id": "40271744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40271744", "title": "Citizenship and Christian Democracy", "text": "Citizenship and Christian Democracy\n\nThe Citizenship and Christian Democracy (, PPV/CDC) is a Portuguese minor right-wing political party, with an ideological foundation of pro-life, conservatism and Christian democracy. PPV is a newly established Portuguese political party, approved by the Constitutional Court on July 1, 2009, which defends the principles of the social doctrine of the Church.\n\nComposed by people from all political persuasions, although mostly from the conservative right, the Portugal Pro-Life presents its programme of policy proposals around the unconditional defence of life, understanding the concept of life and the various principles inherent to it as advocates Catholic Church doctrine, and Roman Catholicism as a state religion. Its general manager, elected in January 2014, is Joana Câmara Pereira.\n\nThe PPV/CDC advocates the repeal of abortion law, of the recent amendments to the law of divorce found in Portugal, and to maintain prohibition of euthanasia, or the revision of standards on sex education in schools, allowing parents to have an active voice. During the debate on the legalization of civil same-sex marriage, the party has a position against. In the field of citizenship, the party advocates vow no age limit and the recognition of conscientious objection of taxpayers - the latter should be able to specify which use to give their taxes.\n"}
{"id": "12055409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12055409", "title": "Colorectal Cancer Alliance", "text": "Colorectal Cancer Alliance\n\nColorectal Cancer Alliance is the largest and oldest colorectal cancer non-profit organization in the US. \nThe Colorectal Cancer Alliance offers a variety of patient support services including grant programs, monthly webinars, a helpline, chat forum and a Buddy Program, which provides both survivors and caregivers with a chance to connect with someone who has gone through a similar experience. The organization serves as a source of information about colorectal health. The Colorectal Cancer Alliance also distributes colorectal cancer awareness merchandise and printed materials.\n\nThe organization received its sixth straight 4-star rating from Charity Navigator, and maintains the 'Accredited Charity' status from the Better Business Bureau. The organization is tax-exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. It is eligible to receive contributions deductible as charitable donations for federal income tax purposes. \nThe Colorectal Cancer Alliance was founded in March 18, 1999, as the Colon Cancer Alliance, after being incorporated in the state of Delaware. Its foundation was the result of a group of 41 survivors, caregivers and friends \"who saw the need to educate the public about colon cancer and provide support to those affected by the disease.\" \n\nThe organization's first annual meeting occurred in Washington, DC, after which a new board of directors took office.\n\nIn early 2016, the Colon Cancer Alliance merged with the Chris4Life Colon Cancer Foundation, a research-focused colon cancer nonprofit organization founded in 2010. After the merger, the Colon Cancer Alliance retained its name, and became the largest colorectal cancer-focused nonprofit organization in the United States.\n\nAs of November 1, 2017, the foundation was officially re-branded as the Colorectal Cancer Alliance. \n\nThe Colorectal Cancer Alliance provides services in the areas of patient and family support, research funding and prevention efforts. The organization also promotes the National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month observed on March of every year, and the Dress in Blue Day, held on the first Friday of every March. \n"}
{"id": "51176238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51176238", "title": "D v Ireland", "text": "D v Ireland\n\nD v Ireland is a case of the European Court of Human Rights concerning abortion in Ireland. It refers to the court case itself, and the circumstances surrounding abortion for fatal foetal abnormalities in Ireland. In 2002 Deirdre Conroy discovered her pregnancy was non-viable and had a termination in Northern Ireland. A public letter, written using a pseudonym, asking for it to be legal was credited with influencing the 2002 abortion referendum. She lost a court case in the ECHR in 2006 because she had not exhausted all domestic remedies. In 2013 after the death of Savita Halappanavar, she came forward, revealed her identity and again asked for this sort of termination to be legal.\n\nIn January 2002, Deirdre Conroy was 39, the mother of two boys aged 10 and 12, and expecting twins. At 14 weeks pregnant, the initial results of an amniocentesis test revealed one of the twins had died. Three weeks later, full test results revealed the second twin had Edwards syndrome, a condition which usually ends in miscarriage or death shortly after birth because of heart abnormalities, kidney malformations, and other internal organ disorders.\n\nIn the run up to the Twenty-fifth Amendment Referendum, in February 2002, she wrote an open letter to The Irish Times newspaper, using the pseudonym Deirdre de Barra, telling of her case, and asking for termination for fatal foetal abnormalities to be legalised in Ireland. David Norris supported termination for FFA in that case. Terminations for fatal foetal abonormalities were not covered by the Twenty-fifth Amendment referendum, and would have remained illegal regardless of the outcome of that vote.\n\nThe letter was credited with playing a part in the defeat of the Twenty-fifth Amendment referendum.\n\nShe later travelled to Northern Ireland for a termination. The Irish hospital would not give her a referral letter, and her doctors were very guarded when discussing abortion with her\n\nD complained about the need to travel abroad to have an abortion in the case of a lethal foetal abnormality and about the restrictions for which the 1995 Act provided. She expressly confined her complaint to the situation of a fatal foetal diagnosis, considering that her tragic situation was exacerbated by the above-noted limitations. She invoked Articles 3, 8 and 10 of the Convention. She further complained under Article 14 that she was discriminated against as a pregnant woman or as a pregnant woman with a lethal foetal abnormality: a person with a serious medical problem would never have encountered such difficulties in obtaining medical care and advice.\n\nThe Government maintained that, as soon as the diagnosis of Trisomy 18 was confirmed, the applicant should have initiated an action in the High Court, pursued if unsuccessful to the Supreme Court, to obtain a declaration that Article 40.3.3 of the Constitution allowed an abortion in Ireland in the case of a fatal foetal abnormality together with the necessary ancillary mandatory order.\n\nThe Irish government maintained that termination for fatal foetal abnormalities might not be illegal, pointing to the X Case as proof that the Supreme Court could develop what \"unborn\" means\n\nThe court dismissed the case, since D did not comply with the requirement to exhaust domestic remedies as regards the availability of abortion in Ireland in the case of fatal foetal abnormality.\n\nIn 2013 after the death of Savita Halappanavar, Deirdre Conroy revealed herself as Deirdre de Barra of the original letter, and the D in D. v Ireland, and spoke publicly about her case, and her experiences. She requested to address the Oireachtas committee that was debating the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4616380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4616380", "title": "Danish Nurses' Organization", "text": "Danish Nurses' Organization\n\nThe Danish Nurses' Organization (abbrev. DNO; in Danish \"Dansk Sygeplejeråd\", abbrev. \"DSR\") is a trade union in Denmark. It represents 95% of all nurses with a membership of 75,000.\n\nThe DNO is affiliated with the FTF – Confederation of Professionals in Denmark and Public Services International.\n\nThe motto of The Danish Nurses' Organization is: \"We move borders—in the organization, profession and society\".\n\n"}
{"id": "271672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271672", "title": "De Quervain syndrome", "text": "De Quervain syndrome\n\nDe Quervain syndrome is inflammation of two tendons that control movement of the thumb and their tendon sheath. This results in pain at the outside of the wrist. Pain is typically increased with gripping or rotating the wrist. The thumb may also be difficult to move smoothly. Onset of symptoms is gradual.\nRisk factors include certain repetitive movements, pregnancy, trauma, and rheumatic diseases. The diagnosis is generally based on symptoms and physical examination. It is supported if pain increases when the wrist is bent inwards while a person is grabbing their thumb within a fist.\nTreatment involves avoiding activities that bring on the symptoms, pain medications such as NSAIDs, and splinting the thumb. If this is not effective steroid injections or surgery may be recommended. The condition affects about 0.5% of males and 1.3% of females. Those who are middle aged are most often affected. It was first described in 1895 by Fritz de Quervain.\n\nSymptoms are pain at the radial side of the wrist, spasms, tenderness, occasional burning sensation in the hand, and swelling over the thumb side of the wrist, and difficulty gripping with the affected side of the hand. The onset is often gradual. Pain is made worse by movement of the thumb and wrist, and may radiate to the thumb or the forearm.\n\nThe cause of de Quervain's disease is not established. Evidence regarding a possible relation with occupational risk factors is debated. A systematic review of potential risk factors discussed in the literature did not find any evidence of a causal relationship with occupational factors. However, researchers in France found personal and work-related factors were associated with de Quervain's disease in the working population; wrist bending and movements associated with the twisting or driving of screws were the most significant of the work-related factors. Proponents of the view that De Quervain syndrome is a repetitive strain injury consider postures where the thumb is held in abduction and extension to be predisposing factors. Workers who perform rapid repetitive activities involving pinching, grasping, pulling or pushing have been considered at increased risk. Specific activities that have been postulated as potential risk factors include intensive computer mouse use, trackball use, and typing, as well as some pastimes, including bowling, golf, fly-fishing, piano-playing, sewing, and knitting.\n\nWomen are affected more often than men. The syndrome commonly occurs during and after pregnancy. Contributory factors may include hormonal changes, fluid retention and—more debatably—lifting.\n\nDe Quervain syndrome involves noninflammatory thickening of the tendons and the synovial sheaths that the tendons run through. The two tendons concerned are those of the extensor pollicis brevis and abductor pollicis longus muscles. These two muscles run side by side and function to bring the thumb away from the hand; the extensor pollicis brevis brings the thumb outwards radially, and the abductor pollicis longus brings the thumb forward away from the palm. De Quervain tendinopathy affects the tendons of these muscles as they pass from the forearm into the hand via a fibro-osseous tunnel (the first dorsal compartment).\nEvaluation of histopathological specimens shows a thickening and myxoid degeneration consistent with a chronic degenerative process, as opposed to inflammation. The pathology is identical in de Quervain seen in new mothers.\n\nDe Quervain syndrome is diagnosed clinically, based on history and physical examination, though diagnostic imaging such as x-ray may be used to rule out fracture, arthritis, or other causes, based on the person's history and presentation. The modified Eichoff maneuver, commonly called the Finkelstein's test, is a physical exam maneuver used to diagnose de Quervain syndrome. To perform the test, the examiner grasps and ulnar deviates the hand when the person has their thumb held within their fist. If sharp pain occurs along the distal radius (top of forearm, about an inch below the wrist), de Quervain's syndrome is likely. While a positive Finkelstein's test is often considered pathognomonic for de Quervain syndrome, the maneuver can also cause pain in those with osteoarthritis at the base of the thumb.\n\nDifferential diagnoses include:\n\nAs with many musculoskeletal conditions, the management of de Quervain's disease is determined more by convention than scientific data. A systematic review and meta-analysis published in 2013 found that corticosteroid injection seems to be an effective form of conservative management of de Quervain's syndrome in approximately 50% of patients, although more research is needed regarding the extent of any clinical benefits. Efficacy data are relatively sparse and it is not clear whether benefits affect the overall natural history of the illness.\n\nMost tendinoses are self-limiting and the same is likely to be true of de Quervain's although further study is needed.\n\nPalliative treatments include a splint that immobilized the wrist and the thumb to the interphalangeal joint and anti-inflammatory medication or acetaminophen. Systematic review and meta-analysis do not support the use of splinting over steroid injections.\n\nSurgery (in which the sheath of the first dorsal compartment is opened longitudinally) is documented to provide relief in most patients. The most important risk is to the radial sensory nerve.\n\nSome occupational and physical therapists suggest alternative lifting mechanics based on the theory that the condition is due to repetitive use of the thumbs during lifting. Physical/Occupational therapy can suggest activities to avoid based on the theory that certain activities might exacerbate one's condition, as well as instruct on strengthening exercises based on the theory that this will contribute to better form and use of other muscle groups, which might limit irritation of the tendons.\n\nSome occupational and physical therapists use other treatments, in conjunction with Therapeutic Exercises, based on the rationale that they reduce inflammation and pain and promote healing: UST, SWD, or other deep heat treatments, as well as TENS, acupuncture, or infrared light therapy, and cold laser treatments. However, the pathology of the condition is not inflammatory changes to the synovial sheath and inflammation is secondary to the condition from friction. Teaching patients to reduce their secondary inflammation does not treat the underlying condition but may reduce their pain; which is helpful when trying to perform the prescribed exercise interventions.\n\nGetting Physical Therapy before surgery or injections has been shown to reduce overall costs to patients and is a viable option to treat a wide array of musculoskeletal injuries.\n\nFrom the original description of the illness in 1895 until the first description of corticosteroid injection by Jarrod Ismond in 1955, it appears that the only treatment offered was surgery. Since approximately 1972, the prevailing opinion has been that of McKenzie (1972) who suggested that corticosteroid injection was the first line of treatment and surgery should be reserved for unsuccessful injections.\n\nIt is named after the Swiss surgeon Fritz de Quervain who first identified it in 1895. It should not be confused with de Quervain's thyroiditis, another condition named after the same person.\n\nBlackBerry thumb is a neologism that refers to a form of repetitive strain injury (RSI) caused by the frequent use of the thumbs to press buttons on PDAs, smartphones, or other mobile devices. The name of the condition comes from the BlackBerry, a brand of smartphone that debuted in 1999, although there are numerous other similar eponymous conditions that exist such as \"Wiiitis\", \"Nintendinitis\", \"Playstation thumb\", \"texting thumb\", \"cellphone thumb\", \"smartphone thumb\", \"Android thumb\", and \"iPhone thumb\". The medical name for the condition is De Quervain syndrome and is associated with the tendons connected to the thumb through the wrist. Causes for the condition extend beyond smartphones and gaming consoles to include activities like golf, racket sports, and lifting.\n\nSymptoms of BlackBerry thumb include aching and throbbing pain in the thumb and wrist. In severe cases, it can lead to temporary disability of the affected hand, particularly the ability to grip objects.\n\nOne hypothesis is that the thumb does not have the dexterity the other four fingers have and is therefore not well-suited to high speed touch typing.\n"}
{"id": "8124695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8124695", "title": "Degloving", "text": "Degloving\n\nA degloving injury is a type of avulsion in which an extensive section of skin is completely torn off the underlying tissue, severing its blood supply. It is named by analogy to the process of removing a glove.\n\nTypically, degloving injuries affect the extremities and limbs. Any injury which would induce degloving of the head or torso is likely to be lethal. However, controlled facial degloving is often featured in plastic surgery.\n\nDegloving injuries invariably require major surgical interventions. Treatment options include replantation or revascularization of the degloved skins, or when these are not possible, skin grafts or skin flaps. While the preservation of the extremities and limbs is normally preferred, in some cases amputations may be advised or required. Post-operative physiotherapy is of particular importance for degloving injuries involving the hand.\n\nMany small mammals are able to induce degloving of their tails to escape capture; this is comparable to tail autotomy in reptiles.\n\n"}
{"id": "869123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=869123", "title": "Gastroenteritis", "text": "Gastroenteritis\n\nGastroenteritis, also known as infectious diarrhea, is inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract -- the stomach and small intestine. Symptoms may include diarrhea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. Fever, lack of energy, and dehydration may also occur. This typically lasts less than two weeks. It is not related to influenza though it has been called the \"stomach flu\".\nGastroenteritis is usually caused by viruses. However, bacteria, parasites, and fungus can also cause gastroenteritis. In children, rotavirus is the most common cause of severe disease. In adults, norovirus and \"Campylobacter\" are common causes. Eating improperly prepared food, drinking contaminated water, or close contact with a person who is infected can spread the disease. Treatment is generally the same with or without a definitive diagnosis, so testing to confirm is usually not needed.\nPrevention includes hand washing with soap, drinking clean water, proper disposal of human waste, and breastfeeding babies instead of using formula. The rotavirus vaccine is recommended as a prevention for children. Treatment involves getting enough fluids. For mild or moderate cases, this can typically be achieved by drinking oral rehydration solution (a combination of water, salts, and sugar). In those who are breast fed, continued breastfeeding is recommended. For more severe cases, intravenous fluids may be needed. Fluids may also be given by a nasogastric tube. Zinc supplementation is recommended in children. Antibiotics are generally not needed. However, antibiotics are recommended for young children with a fever and bloody diarrhea.\nIn 2015 two billion cases of gastroenteritis resulted in 1.3 million deaths globally. Children and those in the developing world are affected the most. In 2011, about 1.7 billion cases resulting in about 700,000 deaths of children under the age of five. In the developing world children less than two years of age frequently get six or more infections a year. It is less common in adults, partly due to the development of immunity.\n\nGastroenteritis usually involves both diarrhea and vomiting. Sometimes only one or the other is present. This may be accompanied by abdominal cramps. Signs and symptoms usually begin 12–72 hours after contracting the infectious agent. If due to a virus, the condition usually resolves within one week. Some viral infections also involve fever, fatigue, headache, and muscle pain. If the stool is bloody, the cause is less likely to be viral and more likely to be bacterial. Some bacterial infections cause severe abdominal pain and may persist for several weeks.\n\nChildren infected with rotavirus usually make a full recovery within three to eight days. However, in poor countries treatment for severe infections is often out of reach and persistent diarrhea is common. Dehydration is a common complication of diarrhea. Severe dehydration in children may be recognized if the skin color and position returns slowly when pressed. This is called \"prolonged capillary refill\" and \"poor skin turgor\". Abnormal breathing is another sign of severe dehydration. Repeat infections are typically seen in areas with poor sanitation, and malnutrition. Stunted growth and long-term cognitive delays can result.\n\nReactive arthritis occurs in 1% of people following infections with \"Campylobacter\" species. Guillain–Barré syndrome occurs in 0.1%. Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) may occur due to infection with Shiga toxin-producing \"Escherichia coli\" or \"Shigella\" species. HUS causes low platelet counts, poor kidney function, and low red blood cell count (due to their breakdown). Children are more predisposed to getting HUS than adults. Some viral infections may produce benign infantile seizures.\n\nViruses (particularly rotavirus) and the bacteria \"Escherichia coli\" and \"Campylobacter\" species are the primary causes of gastroenteritis. There are, however, many other infectious agents that can cause this syndrome. Non-infectious causes are seen on occasion, but they are less likely than a viral or bacterial cause. Risk of infection is higher in children due to their lack of immunity. Children are also at higher risk because they are less likely to practice good hygiene habits. Children living in areas without easy access to water and soap are especially vulnerable.\n\nRotavirus, norovirus, adenovirus, and astrovirus are known to cause viral gastroenteritis. Rotavirus is the most common cause of gastroenteritis in children, and produces similar rates in both the developed and developing world. Viruses cause about 70% of episodes of infectious diarrhea in the pediatric age group. Rotavirus is a less common cause in adults due to acquired immunity. Norovirus is the cause in about 18% of all cases.\n\nNorovirus is the leading cause of gastroenteritis among adults in America, causing greater than 90% of outbreaks. These localized epidemics typically occur when groups of people spend time in close physical proximity to each other, such as on cruise ships, in hospitals, or in restaurants. People may remain infectious even after their diarrhea has ended. Norovirus is the cause of about 10% of cases in children.\n\nIn the developed world \"Campylobacter jejuni\" is the primary cause of bacterial gastroenteritis, with half of these cases associated with exposure to poultry. In children, bacteria are the cause in about 15% of cases, with the most common types being \"Escherichia coli\", \"Salmonella\", \"Shigella\", and \"Campylobacter\" species. If food becomes contaminated with bacteria and remains at room temperature for a period of several hours, the bacteria multiply and increase the risk of infection in those who consume the food. Some foods commonly associated with illness include raw or undercooked meat, poultry, seafood, and eggs; raw sprouts; unpasteurized milk and soft cheeses; and fruit and vegetable juices. In the developing world, especially sub-Saharan Africa and Asia, cholera is a common cause of gastroenteritis. This infection is usually transmitted by contaminated water or food.\n\nToxigenic \"Clostridium difficile\" is an important cause of diarrhea that occurs more often in the elderly. Infants can carry these bacteria without developing symptoms. It is a common cause of diarrhea in those who are hospitalized and is frequently associated with antibiotic use. \"Staphylococcus aureus\" infectious diarrhea may also occur in those who have used antibiotics. Acute \"traveler's diarrhea\" is usually a type of bacterial gastroenteritis, while the persistent form is usually parasitic. Acid-suppressing medication appears to increase the risk of significant infection after exposure to a number of organisms, including \"Clostridium difficile\", \"Salmonella\", and \"Campylobacter\" species. The risk is greater in those taking proton pump inhibitors than with H2 antagonists.\n\nA number of protozoa can cause gastroenteritis. \"Giardia lamblia\" is most common, but \"Entamoeba histolytica\", \"Cryptosporidium\" spp., and other species have also been implicated. As a group, these agents comprise about 10% of cases in children. \"Giardia\" occurs more commonly in the developing world, but this type of illness can occur nearly everywhere. It occurs more commonly in persons who have traveled to areas with high prevalence, children who attend day care, men who have sex with men, and following disasters.\n\nTransmission may occur from drinking contaminated water or when people share personal objects. Water quality typically worsens during the rainy season and outbreaks are more common at this time. In areas with four seasons, infections are more common in the winter. Worldwide, bottle-feeding of babies with improperly sanitized bottles is a significant cause. Transmission rates are also related to poor hygiene, (especially among children), in crowded households, and in those with poor nutritional status. Adults who have developed immunities may still carry certain organisms without exhibiting symptoms. Thus, adults can become natural reservoirs of certain diseases. While some agents (such as \"Shigella\") only occur in primates, others (such as Giardia) may occur in a wide variety of animals.\n\nThere are a number of non-infectious causes of inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract. Some of the more common include medications (like NSAIDs), certain foods such as lactose (in those who are intolerant), and gluten (in those with celiac disease). Crohn's disease is also a non-infectious source of (often severe) gastroenteritis. Disease secondary to toxins may also occur. Some food-related conditions associated with nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea include: ciguatera poisoning due to consumption of contaminated predatory fish, scombroid associated with the consumption of certain types of spoiled fish, tetrodotoxin poisoning from the consumption of puffer fish among others, and botulism typically due to improperly preserved food.\n\nIn the United States, rates of emergency department use for noninfectious gastroenteritis dropped 30% from 2006 until 2011. Of the twenty most common conditions seen in the emergency department, rates of noninfectious gastroenteritis had the largest decrease in visits in that time period.\n\nGastroenteritis is defined as vomiting or diarrhea due to inflammation of the small or large bowel, often due to infection. The changes in the small bowel are typically noninflammatory, while the ones in the large bowel are inflammatory. The number of pathogens required to cause an infection varies from as few as one (for \"Cryptosporidium\") to as many as 10 (for \"Vibrio cholerae\").\n\nGastroenteritis is typically diagnosed clinically, based on a person's signs and symptoms. Determining the exact cause is usually not needed as it does not alter management of the condition.\n\nHowever, stool cultures should be performed in those with blood in the stool, those who might have been exposed to food poisoning, and those who have recently traveled to the developing world. It may also be appropriate in children younger than 5, old people, and those with poor immune function. Diagnostic testing may also be done for surveillance. As hypoglycemia occurs in approximately 10% of infants and young children, measuring serum glucose in this population is recommended. Electrolytes and kidney function should also be checked when there is a concern about severe dehydration.\n\nA determination of whether or not the person has dehydration is an important part of the assessment, with dehydration typically divided into mild (3–5%), moderate (6–9%), and severe (≥10%) cases. In children, the most accurate signs of moderate or severe dehydration are a prolonged capillary refill, poor skin turgor, and abnormal breathing. Other useful findings (when used in combination) include sunken eyes, decreased activity, a lack of tears, and a dry mouth. A normal urinary output and oral fluid intake is reassuring. Laboratory testing is of little clinical benefit in determining the degree of dehydration. Thus the use of urine testing or ultrasounds is generally not needed.\n\nOther potential causes of signs and symptoms that mimic those seen in gastroenteritis that need to be ruled out include appendicitis, volvulus, inflammatory bowel disease, urinary tract infections, and diabetes mellitus. Pancreatic insufficiency, short bowel syndrome, Whipple's disease, coeliac disease, and laxative abuse should also be considered. The differential diagnosis can be complicated somewhat if the person exhibits \"only\" vomiting or diarrhea (rather than both).\n\nAppendicitis may present with vomiting, abdominal pain, and a small amount of diarrhea in up to 33% of cases. This is in contrast to the large amount of diarrhea that is typical of gastroenteritis. Infections of the lungs or urinary tract in children may also cause vomiting or diarrhea. Classical diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) presents with abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting, but without diarrhea. One study found that 17% of children with DKA were initially diagnosed as having gastroenteritis.\n\nA supply of easily accessible uncontaminated water and good sanitation practices are important for reducing rates of infection and clinically significant gastroenteritis. Personal measures (such as hand washing with soap) have been found to decrease rates of gastroenteritis in both the developing and developed world by as much as 30%. Alcohol-based gels may also be effective. Food or drink that is thought to be contaminated should be avoided.\nBreastfeeding is important, especially in places with poor hygiene, as is improvement of hygiene generally. Breast milk reduces both the frequency of infections and their duration.\n\nDue to both its effectiveness and safety, in 2009 the World Health Organization recommended that the rotavirus vaccine be offered to all children globally. Two commercial rotavirus vaccines exist and several more are in development. In Africa and Asia these vaccines reduced severe disease among infants and countries that have put in place national immunization programs have seen a decline in the rates and severity of disease. This vaccine may also prevent illness in non-vaccinated children by reducing the number of circulating infections. Since 2000, the implementation of a rotavirus vaccination program in the United States has substantially decreased the number of cases of diarrhea by as much as 80 percent. The first dose of vaccine should be given to infants between 6 and 15 weeks of age. The oral cholera vaccine has been found to be 50–60% effective over 2 years.\n\nGastroenteritis is usually an acute and self-limiting disease that does not require medication. The preferred treatment in those with mild to moderate dehydration is oral rehydration therapy (ORT). For children at risk of dehydration from vomiting, taking a single dose of the anti vomiting medication metoclopramide or ondansetron, may be helpful, and butylscopolamine is useful in treating abdominal pain.\n\nThe primary treatment of gastroenteritis in both children and adults is rehydration. This is preferably achieved by drinking rehydration solution, although intravenous delivery may be required if there is a decreased level of consciousness or if dehydration is severe. Drinking replacement therapy products made with complex carbohydrates (i.e. those made from wheat or rice) may be superior to those based on simple sugars. Drinks especially high in simple sugars, such as soft drinks and fruit juices, are not recommended in children under 5 years of age as they may \"increase\" diarrhea. Plain water may be used if more specific ORT preparations are unavailable or the person is not willing to drink them. A nasogastric tube can be used in young children to administer fluids if warranted. In those who require intravenous fluids, one to four hours' worth is often sufficient.\n\nIt is recommended that breast-fed infants continue to be nursed in the usual fashion, and that formula-fed infants continue their formula immediately after rehydration with ORT. Lactose-free or lactose-reduced formulas usually are not necessary. Children should continue their usual diet during episodes of diarrhea with the exception that foods high in simple sugars should be avoided. The BRAT diet (bananas, rice, applesauce, toast and tea) is no longer recommended, as it contains insufficient nutrients and has no benefit over normal feeding.\n\nSome probiotics have been shown to be beneficial in reducing both the duration of illness and the frequency of stools. They may also be useful in preventing and treating antibiotic associated diarrhea. Fermented milk products (such as yogurt) are similarly beneficial. Zinc supplementation appears to be effective in both treating and preventing diarrhea among children in the developing world.\n\nAntiemetic medications may be helpful for treating vomiting in children. Ondansetron has some utility, with a single dose being associated with less need for intravenous fluids, fewer hospitalizations, and decreased vomiting. Metoclopramide might also be helpful. However, the use of ondansetron might possibly be linked to an increased rate of return to hospital in children. The intravenous preparation of ondansetron may be given orally if clinical judgment warrants. Dimenhydrinate, while reducing vomiting, does not appear to have a significant clinical benefit.\n\nAntibiotics are not usually used for gastroenteritis, although they are sometimes recommended if symptoms are particularly severe or if a susceptible bacterial cause is isolated or suspected. If antibiotics are to be employed, a macrolide (such as azithromycin) is preferred over a fluoroquinolone due to higher rates of resistance to the latter. Pseudomembranous colitis, usually caused by antibiotic use, is managed by discontinuing the causative agent and treating it with either metronidazole or vancomycin. Bacteria and protozoans that are amenable to treatment include \"Shigella\" \"Salmonella typhi\", and \"Giardia\" species. In those with \"Giardia\" species or \"Entamoeba histolytica\", tinidazole treatment is recommended and superior to metronidazole. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends the use of antibiotics in young children who have both bloody diarrhea and fever.\n\nAntimotility medication has a theoretical risk of causing complications, and although clinical experience has shown this to be unlikely, these drugs are discouraged in people with bloody diarrhea or diarrhea that is complicated by fever. Loperamide, an opioid analogue, is commonly used for the symptomatic treatment of diarrhea. Loperamide is not recommended in children, however, as it may cross the immature blood–brain barrier and cause toxicity. Bismuth subsalicylate, an insoluble complex of trivalent bismuth and salicylate, can be used in mild to moderate cases, but salicylate toxicity is theoretically possible.\n\nIt is estimated that there were two billion cases of gastroenteritis that resulted in 1.3 million deaths globally in 2015. Children and those in the developing world are most commonly affected. As of 2011, in those less than five, there were about 1.7 billion cases resulting in 0.7 million deaths, with most of these occurring in the world's poorest nations. More than 450,000 of these fatalities are due to rotavirus in children under 5 years of age. Cholera causes about three to five million cases of disease and kills approximately 100,000 people yearly. In the developing world, children less than two years of age frequently get six or more infections a year that result in significant gastroenteritis. It is less common in adults, partly due to the development of acquired immunity.\n\nIn 1980, gastroenteritis from all causes caused 4.6 million deaths in children, with the majority occurring in the developing world. Death rates were reduced significantly (to approximately 1.5 million deaths annually) by the year 2000, largely due to the introduction and widespread use of oral rehydration therapy. In the US, infections causing gastroenteritis are the second most common infection (after the common cold), and they result in between 200 and 375 million cases of acute diarrhea and approximately ten thousand deaths annually, with 150 to 300 of these deaths in children less than five years of age.\n\nThe first usage of \"gastroenteritis\" was in 1825. Before this time it was commonly known as typhoid fever or \"cholera morbus\", among others, or less specifically as \"griping of the guts\", \"surfeit\", \"flux\", \"colic\", \"bowel complaint\", or any one of a number of other archaic names for acute diarrhea. Cholera morbus is a historical term that was used to refer to gastroenteritis rather than specifically cholera.\n\nGastroenteritis is associated with many colloquial names, including \"Montezuma's revenge\", \"Delhi belly\", \"la turista\", and \"back door sprint\", among others. It has played a role in many military campaigns and is believed to be the origin of the term \"no guts no glory\".\n\nGastroenteritis is the main reason for 3.7 million visits to physicians a year in the United States and 3 million visits in France. In the United States gastroenteritis as a whole is believed to result in costs of 23 billion USD per year with that due to rotavirus alone resulting in estimated costs of 1 billion USD a year.\n\nThere are a number of vaccines against gastroenteritis in development. For example, vaccines against \"Shigella\" and enterotoxigenic \"Escherichia coli\" (ETEC), two of the leading bacterial causes of gastroenteritis worldwide.\n\nMany of the same agents cause gastroenteritis in cats and dogs as in humans. The most common organisms are \"Campylobacter\", \"Clostridium difficile\", \"Clostridium perfringens\", and \"Salmonella\". A large number of toxic plants may also cause symptoms.\n\nSome agents are more specific to a certain species. Transmissible gastroenteritis coronavirus (TGEV) occurs in pigs resulting in vomiting, diarrhea, and dehydration. It is believed to be introduced to pigs by wild birds and there is no specific treatment available. It is not transmissible to humans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2047887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2047887", "title": "Harold E. Johns", "text": "Harold E. Johns\n\nHarold Elford Johns, OC (4 July 1915 – 23 August 1998) was a Canadian medical physicist, noted for his extensive contributions to the use of ionizing radiation to treat cancer.\n\nJohns was born to missionary parents in Szechuan, China. He lived in China until 1926, when political unrest there prompted his parents to return to North America. After spending time in Tacoma, Washington, and in Brandon, Manitoba, his family settled in Hamilton, Ontario.\n\nIn Hamilton, Johns pursued a degree in mathematics and physics at McMaster University, and he completed his bachelor of science degree (B.Sc.) in 1936. He then moved to the University of Toronto, where he earned his Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees in physics in 1939.\n\nJohns' graduation coincided with the start of World War II. For the duration of the war, he taught physics, mathematics, radar systems, and radio navigation to newly recruited airplane pilots as part of the British Commonwealth Air Training Plan. Based on his radiography and physics experience, Johns was also involved in non-invasive X-ray testing of metal aircraft castings. A meeting in August 1946 with William Valentine Mayneord, while Mayneord was at the Atomic Energy Project at Chalk River, Ontario, contributed to Johns's making a career in medical physics.\n\nJohns married his wife, Sybil Hawkins Johns, in 1940. Their marriage lasted until Johns's death fifty-eight years later.\n\nAfter the close of the war, Johns was invited to work with Ertle Harrington at the University of Saskatchewan. It was there that he conducted his pioneering research in the use of cobalt-60 as a gamma ray source for the radiation therapy in cases of cancer.\n\nInterest in nuclear technology exploded in post-war Canada. Nuclear research facilities constructed at the Chalk River Laboratories, Chalk River, Ontario near the end of the war were expanded and opened to civilian research projects. The first operational nuclear reactor outside the United States - the NRX - was located at Chalk River, and it provided a source of activated cobalt-60 for Johns's experiments.\n\nTwo groups - Johns's at the University of Saskatchewan, and another one in London, Ontario - designed and constructed external beam radiotherapy instruments using radioactive cobalt sources. The first treatment of a patient using the new source was carried out in London, Ontario, on 27 October 1951. In November 1951, the first Saskatoon patient, a 43-year-old mother of four, was treated for cervical cancer with a carefully calibrated dose of cobalt-60 radiation.\n\nIn early 1952, \"Maclean's\" magazine had dubbed the cobalt-source radiotherapy machine the \"cobalt bomb\" - a tongue-in-cheek tribute to this peaceful use of nuclear technology.\n\nJohns's original treatment device was used in Saskatchewan until 1972.\n\nIn 1956, Johns assumed the headship of the physics division of the Ontario Cancer Institute at Princess Margaret Hospital in Toronto.\n\nTo further scientific and medical collaborations between radiologists, radiotherapists, physicians, and physicists, Johns guided the creation of the Graduate Department in Medical Biophysics at the University of Toronto in 1958. Johns served as the second Chair of the Department, succeeding Arthur Ham in 1960.\n\nOver the course of his career, Johns supervised sixty-eight graduate students, published more than two hundred peer-reviewed papers, and with John R. Cunningham, published the textbook \"The Physics of Radiology\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18546298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18546298", "title": "Health and appearance of Michael Jackson", "text": "Health and appearance of Michael Jackson\n\nMichael Jackson (August 29, 1958 – June 25, 2009) was an American singer who spent over four decades in the public eye, first as a child star with the Jackson 5, and later as a solo artist. From the mid-1980s, Jackson's appearance began to change dramatically. The shape of his face, particularly his nose, triggered widespread speculation of extensive cosmetic surgery. His skin tone became much lighter. Although Jackson was diagnosed with the skin disorder vitiligo, which results in white patches on the skin, and said that he had not purposely bleached his skin but had used makeup to even out his skin tone, it was widely suggested that his lighter skin tone was partly due to skin bleaching.\n\nJackson and some of his siblings said they had been physically and psychologically abused by their father, Joseph Jackson. In 2003, Joseph admitted to whipping them as children, but emphatically rejected the longstanding abuse allegations. The whippings deeply traumatized Jackson and may have led to the onset of further health problems later in his life. Physicians speculated that he had body dysmorphic disorder.\n\nAt some point during the 1990s, it appeared that Jackson had become dependent on prescription drugs, mainly painkillers and strong sedatives. The drug use was later linked to second- and third-degree burns he had suffered years before. Jackson gradually became dependent on these drugs and his health deteriorated. He went into rehabilitation in 1993.\n\nWhile preparing for a series of comeback concerts scheduled to begin in July 2009, Jackson died of acute propofol and benzodiazepine intoxication after suffering cardiac arrest on June 25, 2009. His personal physician was convicted of involuntary manslaughter in his death and sentenced to four years in prison.\n\nJackson's skin was a medium-brown color throughout his youth; however, starting in the mid-1980s, it gradually grew paler. This was partly due to vitiligo (a long-term skin condition characterized by patches of the skin losing their pigment), but also widely considered to be due to skin bleaching and changing of his features to appear white. The cause of vitiligo is unknown, but it is believed to be due to genetic susceptibility triggered by an environmental factor such that an autoimmune disease occurs.\n\nBiographer J. Randy Taraborrelli stated that Jackson began making his nose smaller around the same time his skin became gradually lighter, and was using the over-the-counter skin-bleaching cream, Porcelana, to achieve the lighter skin. Jackson's physical changes gained widespread media coverage, and provoked criticism from the public. Some African-American psychologists argued Jackson was \"a lousy role model for black youth\". Dr. Dennis Chestnut said Jackson had given \"black youth a feeling that they can achieve\", but might encourage them to believe they had to be esoteric and idiosyncratic to be successful. It was also presumed that Jackson bleached his skin just to boost his career. Dr. Halford Fairchild stated Jackson and other African-American celebrities would try \"to look more like white people in order to get in films and on television\". Jackson has also been confronted with the reaction of the people around him. Filmmaker John Landis, who directed two music videos for Jackson, said when Jackson showed him his bleached chest, he told him the doctor who had done it was a criminal.\n\nHowever, in 1993, Jackson told Oprah Winfrey \"there, as I know of, there is no such thing as skin bleaching. I've never seen it, I don't know what it is.\" He stated he had a skin disorder (vitiligo) and also stated that the disorder was hereditary; he also said he used make-up to even out the uneven skin tone. \"It is something I cannot help,\" explained Jackson. \"When people make up stories that I don't want to be who I am, it hurts me. It's a problem for me. I can't control it. But what about all the millions of people who sit in the sun to become darker, to become other than what they are. Nobody says nothing about that.\" Winfrey's interview of Jackson was watched by 62 million Americans. It also started a public discourse on the topic of vitiligo, then a relatively unknown condition.\n\nJackson had publicly stated that he was proud to be black. He also wrote a letter to photographer William Pecchi Jr. in 1988 which reads: \"Maybe I look at the world through rose colored glasses but I love people all over the world. That is why stories of racism really disturb me. [...] Because in truth I believe ALL men are created equal, I was taught that and will always believe it. I just can't conceive of how a person could hate another because of skin color. I love every race on the planet earth. Prejudice is the child of ignorance. Naked we come into the world and naked we shall go out. And a very good thing too, for it reminds me that I am naked under my shirt, whatever its color.\"\n\nShortly following Jackson's death, tubes of Benoquin and hydroquinone were found in Jackson's home. Both creams are commonly used to treat vitiligo; Dr. David Sawcer said some patients with vitiligo remove dark areas of skin when most of their skin has become pale. Darkening depigmented skin is also extremely difficult. Depigmentation causes a permanent and extreme sensitivity to the sun. Vitiligo patients are at risk to contract melanoma, and an annual cancer check-up is recommended. Another common way of treating vitiligo is using makeup to camouflage depigmented skin. The treatments Jackson used for his condition further lightened his skin tone, and with the application of pancake makeup to even out his skin tone, he could appear very pale. Jackson also covered his skin disorder with clothing wearing long sleeves and long pants. In the music video for \"Remember the Time\", all dancers and actors except for Jackson are lightly dressed following the example set by ancient Egyptians. Jackson usually avoided wearing patterned clothing to avoid attention to the disorder.\n\nJackson's autopsy confirmed that he had vitiligo. His skin was found to have reduced (though not absent) melanocytes, the cells active in skin pigmentation. Vitiligo occurs in three different patterns. Segmental depigmentation means only one side of the body is affected, whereas generalized depigmentation means many parts of the body are affected. Jackson's autopsy report states a \"focal depigmentation of the skin\" (i.e., the depigmentation occurs on one or a few areas of the body). In Jackson's case, there were five affected areas. When Jackson was diagnosed with vitiligo in the mid-1980s, he started to learn more about the disease. He would often call his dermatologist's nurse and future wife Debbie Rowe to get medical information as well as emotional support.\n\nTaraborrelli stated that Jackson was diagnosed with discoid lupus. To treat this condition, Jackson had hydroxychloroquine injected directly into his scalp regularly. He also used Solaquin, Retin A and Benoquin and had to avoid sun exposure more than ever. Taraborrelli stated the lupus was on remission later. Jackson's autopsy did not confirm or refute the claim that he had lupus.\n\nOver time, Jackson's facial structure changed as well. Surgeons speculated he also had a forehead lift, cheekbone surgery and altered his lips. Those close to the singer estimated that, by 1990, he had undergone around ten procedures. However, in the biography's original edition published in 1991, Taraborrelli stated Jackson had had a total of six nose surgeries including two secondary operations (not considered complete rhinoplasties). According to Taraborrelli, Jackson had his first rhinoplasty after breaking his nose during a complex dance routine in 1979. However, the surgery was not a complete success, and he complained of breathing difficulties that would affect his career. He was referred to Steven Hoefflin, who performed his second rhinoplasty in 1981. Taraborrelli stated Jackson had a third rhinoplasty three years later and a fourth in 1986. Jackson wrote in his 1988 autobiography \"Moonwalk\" that, in addition to the two rhinoplasties, he also had a dimple created in his chin. From 1986 onward he was a regular client of Arnold Klein, a dermatologist who specializes in dermal filler injection, a non-surgical cosmetic procedure.\n\nIn his book, Jackson attributed the changes in the structure of his face to puberty, a strict vegetarian diet, weight loss, a change in hair style and stage lighting. Jackson denied allegations that he had altered his eyes. In June 1992, the \"Daily Mirror\" ran a full front-page picture, allegedly of Jackson's face, which they described as \"hideously disfigured\" by plastic surgery. Jackson sued the tabloid, and, in 1998, they agreed to an out-of-court settlement with Jackson. At the High Court, the paper's former editor acknowledged that after meeting Jackson in person, he believed that Jackson was neither hideously disfigured nor scarred at all. A \"Daily Mirror\" solicitor maintained that the publication did not tamper with the picture.\n\nMedia reports stated that Jackson's autopsy reported one scar beside each of his nostrils, one scar behind each of his ears, and two scars on his neck, \"probably\" from cosmetic surgery, plus cosmetic tattoos on his eyebrows, around his eyes and lips, and on his scalp (at his receding hairline).\n\nIn the unedited version of the documentary \"Living With Michael Jackson\", which was shown in court in 2005, Jackson said he had two procedures on his nose so that he could breathe better. When he was asked about his cheeks, Jackson answered: \"These cheekbones? No. My father has the same thing. We have Indian blood.\"\n\nOver the years, Jackson had various medical problems that were covered by the media. In early 1984, Jackson was treated for scalp burns after his hair caught fire during a commercial shoot.\nIn June 1990, Jackson was admitted to a Santa Monica hospital with chest pains. According to Dr. Mark Zatzkis, \"laboratory and X-ray tests of Jackson's heart and lungs revealed no abnormalities\"; the pains \"were caused by bruised ribs suffered during a vigorous dance practice\".\n\nVarious concerts were canceled owing to illness, and a remaining tour was called off due to addiction. \nOn March 12, 1988, Jackson canceled a show in St. Louis which was rescheduled for March 14; on March 13, Jackson performed in St. Louis although he was fighting a cold. The cold progressed to laryngitis; the show on March 14, was also canceled.\nThree shows in Tacoma, scheduled from October 31 to November 2, 1988, had to be canceled on his physician's advice because Jackson had the flu. Two shows in Los Angeles were canceled due to swollen vocal cords; three shows in Los Angeles scheduled for November 20, 21 and 22 were also canceled; these five concerts were rescheduled for January 1989.\n\nIn August 1992, a concert in London, England had to be postponed due to a viral infection. Four days later, Jackson performed in Cardiff, Wales. In September 1992, a concert in Gelsenkirchen, Germany was canceled because Jackson was taken ill with the flu. In Lausanne, Switzerland, an ambulance took Jackson back to his hotel after the show held on September 8; another show in Basel, Switzerland, scheduled for September 11, was also canceled. In October 1992, two concerts in Turkey, Istanbul and Izmir, and another one in Athens, Greece had to be canceled due to loss of voice caused by a cold. His private doctor attended to Jackson in Istanbul. According to organizers, Jackson's \"vocal cords were irritated.\" These concerts were supposed to be the last three shows of the tour's European leg. Jackson was seen by a throat specialist in London and was advised to seek further treatment in Los Angeles.\n\nIn August 1993, two shows of Jackson's \"Dangerous Tour\" in Thailand had to be canceled due to dehydration. On August 27, 1993, Jackson \"returned to the concert stage\". On August 30, 1993, a show in Singapore had to be canceled due to nausea and a severe headache. In the opinion of his physician, Dr. David Forecast, Jackson \"was in no condition to perform.\" A neurology specialist attended to Jackson. The specialist confirmed Forecast's diagnosis of \"late-onset migraine,\" and medication was prescribed for Jackson who also underwent tests in a hospital in Singapore. The show was held two days later. Jackson consumed a lot of water, a step which prevents both dehydration and voice problems.\n\nThe first concert in Santiago de Chile, scheduled for October 21, 1993, was canceled due to lumbar problems; two days later, Jackson performed at \"Estadio Nacional\". Another concert in Lima, Peru, scheduled for October 26, 1993, was canceled due to a torn muscle suffered during a show in Brazil. Several concerts in Mexico City were canceled due to tooth problems. Two abscessed molars were pulled. However, there were five shows in Mexico City. The last concert of the \"Dangerous Tour\" was held in Mexico City on November 11, 1993.\n\nIn November 1993, Jackson announced the cancellation of the remaining \"Dangerous Tour\" due to an addiction to painkillers which had been prescribed after a recent constructive scalp surgery. It was also reported Jackson canceled shows in Russia and Israel; however, these two concerts did take place. The rescheduling of the concert in Israel was not due to health problems.\n\nIn late 1995, Jackson was rushed to a hospital after collapsing during rehearsals for a televised performance. Medics cited irregular beats, gastro-intestinal inflammation, dehydration, and kidney and liver irregularities.\n\nAccording to Dr. Neil Ratner, Jackson suffered a back injury in July 1997 after one of the stages collapsed during a concert in Munich, Germany. However, the \"History Tour\" continued; there was only one concert canceled after the fatal accident of Princess Diana about two months later. In fact, such an incident happened during a charity concert in Munich in 1999. Jackson was later taken to a hospital. Jackson's promoter Marcel Avram said he [Jackson] received abrasions and bruises. Jackson left the hospital the next morning.\n\nOn February 15, 2005, Jackson was admitted to the Marian Medical Center in Santa Maria with \"flu-like symptoms.\" According to Dr. Chuck Merrill, Jackson was in stable condition and would recover within a few days. Jackson left the hospital on February 16, 2005; Dr. Todd Bailey said Jackson \"continued to need care for some persistent viral symptoms, but otherwise he was in good spirits.\" One week later, the jury selection for the child molestation trial resumed in Jackson's presence.\n\nOn March 10, 2005, Jackson appeared late in court after having received treatment in a hospital due to a back problem. During the trial, Jackson occasionally needed help to get to his seat. On June 5, 2005, Jackson was taken to the emergency room at the Santa Ynez Valley Cottage Hospital to seek treatment of a back pain. Jackson's spokeswoman, Raymone Bain, said \"stress contributed to the back problem.\" During the trial, Jackson had briefly been in hospital several times.\nThe BBC reported that during his 2005 trial, the singer again suffered from stress-related illnesses and severe weight loss.\n\nDr. Christopher Rogers testified in the trial against Dr. Conrad Murray that, in his opinion, Jackson \"was healthier than the average person of his age.\" Rogers said the arteries around Jackson's heart were free of fat and cholesterol, which is unusual for a 50-year-old individual.\n\nAnother publicly discussed aspect of Jackson's private life is his childhood, particularly his relationship with his father, Joseph. Although Jackson credited his father's strict discipline with playing a large role in his success, he and some of his siblings stated that they were physically and mentally abused by Joseph from a young age through incessant rehearsals, whippings, and the use of derogatory names such as \"big nose\" for Michael; this abuse affected Michael throughout his life. In one altercation—later recalled by Marlon Jackson—Joseph held Michael upside down by one leg and \"pummeled him over and over again with his hand, hitting him on his back and buttocks.\" Joseph would often trip the boys or push them into walls. One night while Jackson was asleep, Joseph climbed into his room through the bedroom window. Wearing a fright mask, he entered the room screaming and shouting. Joseph said he wanted to teach his children not to leave the window open when they went to sleep. For a number of years afterward, Jackson suffered nightmares about being kidnapped from his bedroom.\n\nBy the early 1980s, Jackson was deeply unhappy; Jackson explained, \"Even at home, I'm lonely. I sit in my room sometimes and cry. It's so hard to make friends... I sometimes walk around the neighborhood at night, just hoping to find someone to talk to. But I just end up coming home.\"\n\nAlthough it had been reported for a number of years that Jackson had an abusive childhood, he first spoke openly about it in his 1993 interview with Oprah Winfrey. He grimaced when speaking of the childhood abuse at the hands of his father; he believed he had missed out on much of his childhood years, acknowledging that he often cried from loneliness. In the same interview, speaking of his father, Jackson said, \"There were times when he'd come to see me, I'd get sick... I'd start to regurgitate. I'm sorry... Please don't be mad at me... But I do love him.\" In an interview with Martin Bashir for the 2003 documentary \"Living with Michael Jackson\", Jackson covered his face with his hand and began crying when talking about his childhood abuse, recalling that Joe often sat in a chair with a belt in his hand as he and his siblings rehearsed, and that \"if you didn't do it the right way, he would tear you up, really get you.\" Also that year, Joe acknowledged that he regularly whipped Jackson as a boy, but he and Jackson's mother, Katherine, have disputed the longstanding allegations of abuse, with Katherine stating that while whipping is considered abuse today, it was a common way to discipline children at the time.\n\nIn 2003, Jackson was accused of child sexual abuse and was acquitted two years later. During the investigation, Jackson's profile was examined by Stan Katz, a mental health professional, who also spent several hours with the accuser. According to Taraborrelli, the assessment made by Katz was that Jackson had become a regressed ten-year-old. Some medical professionals have publicly stated their belief that Jackson also had body dysmorphic disorder, a psychological condition whereby the sufferer has no concept of how his or her physical appearance is perceived by others.\n\nIn none of Jackson's hospitalizations, including the one in late 1995, did medics find drugs in Jackson's system.\n\nTaraborrelli states the entertainer took Valium, Xanax and Ativan in 1993. While Jackson himself does not mention sedatives, he stated that painkillers were prescribed to soothe excruciating pain that he was suffering after recent reconstructive surgery on his scalp resulting from his accident in 1984. In a court deposition unrelated to alleged child abuse, Jackson was visibly drowsy, lacked concentration, and repeatedly slurred while speaking. He could not remember the dates of his prior album releases or names of people he had worked with. It took him several minutes to name some of his recent albums.\n\nJackson also stated during the 1993 interview that he first began taking painkiller medications regularly in 1984. On January 24 of that year, Jackson was filming a Pepsi commercial when his hair caught on fire from faulty pyrotechnics on stage that were intended to be part of one of many being filmed. He sustained second-degree burns to his scalp and never fully recovered from the injury or from the lingering pain. He reportedly began taking the painkillers after refusing at first in order to deal with the intense pain.\n\nOn November 9, and November 10, 1993, Jackson was questioned about a copyright matter. According to the sworn declaration from the plaintiffs' lawyer, he had been told that Jackson \"was taking painkillers because of recent oral surgery.\"\n\nIn November 1993, Jackson announced that he was addicted to painkillers; he said he had recently undergone a scalp surgery, and the painkillers had been prescribed. Jackson said due to the pressure caused by the child molestation allegations and the energy he needed for the \"Dangerous Tour,\" he was \"physically and emotionally exhausted.\" He said he had \"become increasingly more dependent on painkillers,\" and would seek treatment. His lawyers said Jackson would be treated for addiction overseas for one and a half months to two months. In December 1993, Jackson returned to the United States.\n\nJackson was taken to Charter Nightingale Clinic where he was searched for drugs on entry; vials of medicine were found in a suitcase. He was put on Valium IV to wean him from painkillers. The singer's spokesperson then told reporters that Jackson was \"barely able to function adequately on an intellectual level.\" While in the clinic, Jackson took part in group and one-on-one therapy sessions. According to Taraborrelli, in January 2004, as his trial approached, Jackson became dependent on morphine and Demerol and was being treated for this dependency by herbalist Alfredo Bowman in Colorado.\n\nIn an interview with Aphrodite Jones, Patrick Treacy, a cosmetic surgeon who treated Jackson between July 2006 and early 2007, as well as shortly before his death, stated that he would have known if Jackson would have been also treated by another physician and that he never saw any drugs in the house. He also said that Jackson did not have insomnia and never asked him for narcotics. Treacy stated Jackson was in good physical health; he said Jackson always insisted on the presence of an anesthetist when Propofol was administered.\n\nJackson was 5 ft. 9 in. and weighed 136 lbs, which would be within a normal weight range, although he was thin, Dr. Rogers testified in court. According to his costumer Michael Bush, Jackson lost so much weight during a concert due to loss of water that the costumes Jackson wore at the end of the show had to be smaller than those he wore at the beginning of the show; usually, he was a 28-inch waist. \nAccording to Dr. Nader Kamangar, a sleeping expert at UCLA, drugs such as Demerol can cause insomnia. In the case of Jackson, insomnia could have been caused by \"anxiety for performing\" as well.\n\nFollowing Jackson's death, a police warrant issued against his attending physician, Conrad Murray, stated that Jackson's many doctors had used nineteen distinct aliases, such as \"Omar Arnold,\" \"Josephine Baker,\" \"Fernand Diaz,\" \"Paul Farance,\" \"Peter Madonie,\" \"Faheem Muhammad,\" \"Roselyn Muhammad,\" \"Blanca Nicholas,\" \"Jimmy Nicholas,\" \"Bryan Singleton,\" \"Frank Tyson,\" and \"Rob Kaufman\" while prescribing medications for Jackson. He also took prescriptions as \"Prince,\" \"Michael Amir,\" and \"Kai Chase,\" the names of one of his sons, his spokesperson, and his former personal chef, respectively. Police found a CD mentioning the \"Omar Arnold\" alias when they raided the Las Vegas, Nevada home and office of Conrad Murray, Jackson's personal physician. Use of pseudonyms by celebrities' doctors is common practice for maintaining the confidentiality of patients' medical history and does not necessarily indicate addiction.\n\nFollowing Jackson's death on June 25, 2009, reports of his use of pethidine (Demerol) surfaced. Cherilyn Lee, a nurse who provided nutritional counseling to Jackson, said that on April 12, 2009, he had asked her for unspecified \"products for sleep\". On April 19, 2009, he told her the only medicine that would help was propofol. Lee refused, telling him, \"Michael, the only problem with you taking this medication ... is you're going to take it and you're not going to wake up.\" Jackson dismissed the warning, telling her he had been given the drug before by IV injection and that his doctor told him it was safe. He did not name the doctor. An overdose of propofol can cause the patient to stop breathing, leading to a shortage of oxygen and a buildup of carbon dioxide in the body which can lead to arrhythmias and cardiac arrest.\nIt was the last time they met.\n\nDue to an inquiry about a cancellation insurance for the upcoming tour, insurance carriers demanded a medical exam by a doctor they trusted. In February 2009, Jackson had an examination performed by Dr. David Slavit of New York. Later, the broker told an AEG senior vice president Jackson had only slight hay fever and had passed the exam \"with flying colors\". A second medical exam was supposed to take place on July 6, 2009.\n\nAccording to Lee, she received a frantic call on June 21, 2009, from an aide on Jackson's staff. The aide reported that Jackson was feeling ill. Lee reported overhearing Jackson complain that one side of his body was hot, the other side cold. She believed that somebody had given him something that affected his central nervous system. She advised the aide to take him to the hospital.\n\nAfter his death, the autopsy report revealed that Jackson had a strong heart and was a \"fairly healthy\" 50-year-old. According to BBC, his weight was in the acceptable range for a man of his height, but he had punctured arms and suffered from lung damage and some arthritis. The document shows that Jackson's most serious health problem was his chronically inflamed lungs, but this was not serious enough to be a contributing factor to his death. The post mortem did not uncover any physical problems that may have limited Jackson's ability to perform. \"His overall health was fine,\" said Dr. Zeev Kain of the University of California, who reviewed the report for AP but was not involved in the post-mortem examination, \"The results are in normal limits.\" The autopsy also revealed that he was partially bald and that his lips, eyebrows, and scalp were tattooed.\n\nIn 2011, Rogers said in his testimony: \"The theory that seems less reasonable to me is that Mr. Jackson woke up, and although he was under the influence of sedative medications, managed to give himself another dose.\" \nToxicologist Dan Anderson testified that Demerol was detected in Jackson's system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10080971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10080971", "title": "Healthcare in Mexico", "text": "Healthcare in Mexico\n\nHealthcare in Mexico is provided by public institutions, private entities, or private physicians. Healthcare delivered by private organizations operates on the free market system and is available to those who can afford it. That is also the case of healthcare obtained from private physicians at their private office or clinic.\n\nPublic healthcare delivery, on the other hand, is accomplished by an elaborate provisioning and delivery system put in place by the federal government of Mexico. In 2009, Mexico instituted universal healthcare. As of December 31, 2013, there were 4,466 hospitals in Mexico.\n\nHospitals were established in Mexico in the early 16th century, including ones exclusively for Indians. Some were established by the crown, others by private endowment, but most by the Catholic Church. Bishop Vasco de Quiroga established hospital complexes in Michoacan in the sixteenth century. In Mexico City, conqueror Hernán Cortés established the Hospital de Jesús Nazareno for Indians, which still functions as a hospital.\n\nThe Hospicio Cabañas in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico, was founded in 1791. It is still functioning and is now a World Heritage Site. It is one of the oldest and largest hospital complexes in Latin America. The complex was founded by the Bishop of Guadalajara to combine the functions of a workhouse, hospital, orphanage, and almshouse.\n\nThe Mexican healthcare program Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social was founded in 1943, during the presidency of Manuel Avila Camacho. In the early 1990s, Mexico showed clear signs of having entered a transitional stage in the health of its population. Compared with 1940 or even 1970, 1990s Mexico had mortality patterns that more closely approximated those of developed societies. By 2009, during the notorious swine flu pandemic, the World Health Organization director said that Mexico \"gave the world a model of rapid and transparent reporting, aggressive control measures, and generous sharing of data and samples.\"\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's flu director, Nancy Cox, added that Mexico's response \"impressed the entire world.\"\n\nWhile private hospitals account for two thirds of all hospitals in Mexico, with 2,988 institutions, less than 10% of the Mexican population has private insurance coverage. Care is paid mainly \"out of pocket.\"\n\nPublic healthcare has an elaborate provisioning and delivery system instituted by the Mexican government. It is provided to all Mexican citizens, as guaranteed by Article 4 of the Constitution. Public care is fully or partially subsidized by the federal government, depending upon the person's (Spanish: \"derechohabiente\") employment status. All Mexican citizens are eligible for subsidized healthcare regardless of their work status via a system of health care facilities operating under the federal Secretariat of Health (formerly the \"Secretariat de Salubridad y Asistencia\", or SSA) agency.\n\nThe Secretariat of Health's \"Seguro Popular\" offers coverage to Mexicans who do not have formal employment. The program currently covers over 55 million people.\n\nEmployed citizens and their dependents, however, can use the program administered and operated by the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS) (). The IMSS program is a tripartite system funded equally by the employee, the private employer, and the federal government. There are 58 million people covered through IMSS.\n\nThe IMSS does not provide service to public employees, who instead are serviced by the Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado (ISSSTE) (, which attends to the health and social care needs of government employees: local, state, and federal government employees. There are nearly 13 million people covered by ISSSTE.\n\nThe state governments of Mexico also provide health services independently of those that are provided by the federal government programs. In most states, the state government has established free or subsidized healthcare to all of its citizens.\n\nThe Secretariat of Health is the largest public healthcare institution, operating 809 hospitals throughout the country. The IMSS grants hospital care and services to employed citizens and their dependents and had 279 hospitals affiliated to it. The ISSSTE grants hospital care and services to government employees and has 115 affiliated hospitals. The other 279 hospitals are affiliated with 9 government dependencies, including State Facilities, Secretariat of National Defense (Secretaria de Defensa Nacional), Mexican Navy (Secretaria de Marina), Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), and the Red Cross (Cruz Roja).\n\nHospitals are spread over a territory of 761,600 sq miles (1.973 million km²). Thus, the public hospital infrastructure relies on a vast network of small hospitals. Over 50% of public hospitals have fewer than 50 beds.\n\nAggregate health statistics for Mexico have improved greatly since the 1970s. However, Mexico lags well behind other Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries in health status and availability.\n\nDuring 2005, 45.5% of health spending was paid from public sources, comparable to the share of public spending in the United States but significantly below the OECD average. Private financing in Mexico is almost entirely in the form of out-of-pocket payments, as only 3.1% of total expenditures on health are funded through private health insurance. Like every other major industrialized country (except the U.S.), government healthcare in Mexico is universal, making private programs' health insurance unnecessary except for private hospitals.\n\nSome authorities have noted that while Mexico has some 3000 private hospitals, some private \"hospitals\" are hardly hospitals at all, since they have no laboratories, radiography equipment, or even nurses. The remaining 1000 or so public hospitals account for the majority of hospital beds, and most private hospitals have fewer than 20 beds.\n\nThe child mortality rate up to five years was 17 per 1,000 live births in 2005, and Mexico has shown a faster acceleration to lower mortality rates than the US, Cuba, and Canada in the last 10 years. Also, 97% of the population had direct access to potable water and 80% to sanitation. Also in 2005, the incidence of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) in persons from 15 to 49 was 0.3%. At 11,000 deaths/year as opposed to 22,000/year in the US, that represents a 44% higher per capita death rate than the United States.\n\nIn 1992, the \"New York Times\" reported that residents of the United States living near the Mexican border routinely crossed into Mexico for medical care. Popular specialties included dentistry and plastic surgery. In 2007, the \"Washington Post\" reported that Mexican dentists charged 20-25% of US prices, and other procedures typically cost a third of the US price.\n\nOn December 1, 2006, the Mexican government created the Health Insurance for a New Generation (also called \"Life Insurance for Babies\"). It was followed by a February 16, 2009, announcement by President Felipe Calderon, who stated that at the current rate, Mexico would have universal health coverage by 2011, and a May 28, 2009 announcement of universal coverage for pregnant women. In August 2012 Mexico installed a universal healthcare system.\n\nSocial determinants of health in Mexico are factors that influence the status of health among certain populations in Mexico. They are circumstances in which people grow, live, work, and age and the systems put in place to deal with illnesses. In Mexico, health inequality in the population is influenced by such social factors. In the past decade, Mexico has witnessed immense progress within its health care system that has allowed for greater access to health care and a decrease in mortality rate, but there are still various health inequalities caused by social factors.\n"}
{"id": "1152003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1152003", "title": "Hyperactivation", "text": "Hyperactivation\n\nHyperactivation is a type of sperm motility. Hyperactivated sperm motility is characterised by a high amplitude, asymmetrical beating pattern of the sperm tail (flagellum). This type of motility may aid in sperm penetration of the zona pellucida, which encloses the ovum.\n\nHyperactivation could then be followed by the acrosome reaction where the cap-like structure on the head of the cell releases the enzymes it contains. This facilitates the penetration of the ovum and fertilisation.\n\nSome definitions consider sperm activation to consist of these two processes of hyperactivation and the acrosome reaction\n\nHyperactivation is a term also used to express an X chromosome gene dosage compensation mechanism and is seen in Drosophila. Here, a complex of proteins bind to the X-linked genes to effectively double their genetic activity. This allows males (XY) to have equal genetic activity as females (XX), whose X's are not hyperactivated.\n\nMammalian sperm cells become more active when they approach an egg cell in a process called sperm activation. Sperm activation has been shown to be caused by calcium ionophores \"in vitro\", progesterone released by nearby cumulus cells and binding to ZP3 of the zona pellucida.\n\nThe initial change is called \"hyperactivation\", which causes a change in spermatozoa motility. They swim faster and their tail movements become more forceful and erratic.\n\nA recent discovery links hyperactivation to a sudden influx of calcium ion into the tails. The whip-like tail (flagellum) of the sperm is studded with ion channels formed by proteins called CatSper. These channels are selective, allowing only calcium ion to pass. The opening of CatSper channels is responsible for the influx of calcium. The sudden rise in calcium levels causes the flagellum to form deeper bends, propelling the sperm more forcefully through the viscous environment. Sperm hyperactivity is necessary for breaking through two physical barriers that protect the egg from fertilization.\n\nHyperactivation has also shown to serve as a feature of the human sperm Chemotaxis. When the sperm is exposed to chemo-attractant, especially progesterone; the sperm will exhibit sudden flagellar arrest, followed by sharp turn and hyperactivation. This response suggests that hyperactivation serves as method to quickly guide sperm through chemo-attractant gradient. \n\nBefore reaching the egg, the sperm are often trapped in epithelial cells in a Fallopian tube, meaning they are rendered inert unless they undergo hyperactivation. The change in motion and force of the tail movements enable the sperm to escape from the epithelium. Thus, only those sperm which have undergone hyperactivation have the ability to fertilize the egg.\n\n"}
{"id": "19817184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19817184", "title": "Ileosigmoid knot", "text": "Ileosigmoid knot\n\nAn ileosigmoid knot is a form of volvulus in which ileum wraps around the base of the sigmoid and passes beneath itself forming a knot.\n\nThe exact cause of this condition is not known. Patients usually present with clinical features of colonic obstruction. Vomiting, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, blood stained stools are frequent symptoms. It is difficult to diagnose this condition before surgery. Raveenthiran described a triad which may be useful in preoperative diagnosis. The triad includes 1). Clinical features suggestive of small bowel obstruction, 2). Radiological features suggestive of large bowel obstruction, 3). Inability to negotiate sigmoidoscope or a flatus tube. This is a surgical emergency that requires urgent resection of gangrenous bowel and untwisting of the volvulus.\n"}
{"id": "39754074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39754074", "title": "John Monahan (law professor)", "text": "John Monahan (law professor)\n\nJohn Monahan holds the John S. Shannon Professorship in Law, and joined the University of Virginia Law School faculty in 1980. He originally trained as a psychologist. Monahan has led two large projects in mental health law, supported by the MacArthur Foundation.\n\nMonahan has written 15 books and more than 200 articles and chapters. The book \"Social Science in Law\" is entering its seventh edition. Two other books have won Awards from the American Psychiatric Association: \"The Clinical Prediction of Violent Behavior\" published in 1982 and \"Rethinking Risk Assessment\" (2002). Monahan's research has been frequently cited by the law courts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1518770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1518770", "title": "Junkie (novel)", "text": "Junkie (novel)\n\nJunkie: Confessions of an Unredeemed Drug Addict (originally titled Junk, later released as Junky) is a novel by American beat generation writer William S. Burroughs, published initially under the pseudonym William Lee in 1953. His first published work, it is semi-autobiographical and focuses on Burroughs' life as a drug user and dealer. It has come to be considered a seminal text on the lifestyle of heroin addicts in the early 1950s.\n\nThe novel was considered unpublishable more than it was controversial. Burroughs began it largely at the request and insistence of Allen Ginsberg, who was impressed by Burroughs’s letter-writing skill. Burroughs took up the task with little enthusiasm. However, partly because he saw that becoming a publishable writer was possible (his friend Jack Kerouac had published his first novel \"The Town and the City\" in 1950), he began to compile his experiences as an addict, ‘lush roller’ and small-time Greenwich Village heroin pusher.\n\nAlthough it was long considered Burroughs' first novel, he had in fact several years earlier completed a manuscript called \"And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks\" with Kerouac, but this work would remain unpublished in its entirety until 2008.\n\nBurroughs's work would not have been published but for Allen Ginsberg’s determination. Besides encouraging Burroughs to write, he worked as editor and agent as the manuscript was written in Mexico City. \"Queer\", the companion piece to \"Junkie\", was written at the same time and parts of it were designed to be included in \"Junkie\", since the first manuscript was dismissed as poorly written and lacking in interest and insight. After many rejection letters, Burroughs stopped writing.\n\nGinsberg found Burroughs a publisher through Carl Solomon, whom he had met at the psychiatric hospital to which Ginsberg was sent in 1949 by a judge following the latter's trial for receiving stolen goods. Solomon was the nephew of A. A. Wyn, who owned Ace Books. Having secured the publisher's interest, Ginsberg forced Burroughs to revisit the text. Ginsberg soothed Burroughs's indignation at the necessary edits, and was able to finally place the novel with the New York publishing house.\n\nAce Books primarily catered to New York City subway riders, and competed in the same market as comic book, true crime, and detective fiction publishers. Ace published no hardcover books, only cheap paperbacks, which sold for very little; Burroughs earned less than a cent royalty on each purchase.\n\nMost libraries at the time did not buy Ace books, considering them trivial and without literary merit, and Ace paperbacks were never reviewed by literary critics. At the time of its publication, the novel was in a two-book (\"dos-à-dos\") omnibus edition (known as an \"Ace Double\") alongside a previously published 1941 novel called \"Narcotic Agent\" by Maurice Helbrant. Burroughs chose to use the pseudonym \"William Lee\", Lee being his mother's maiden name, for the writing credit. The subtitle of the work was \"Confessions of an Unredeemed Drug Addict\". This edition is a highly desired collectible and even below-average-condition copies have been known to cost hundreds of dollars. The United States Library of Congress purchased a copy in 1992 for its Rare Book/Special Collections Reading Room.\n\nNumerous reprints of the book appeared in the 1960s and 1970s once Burroughs achieved notability with \"Naked Lunch\", with the work now credited under his real name. Generally, American editions used the original \"Junkie\" spelling for the title, while UK editions usually changed this to \"Junky\".\n\nIn 1977 a complete edition of the original text was published by Penguin Books with an introduction by Allen Ginsberg; sections of the manuscript referring to Burroughs's homosexuality, which had been edited out of earlier editions, were included for the first time. In 2003, to mark the work's 50th anniversary, Penguin reissued the book as \"Junky: The Definitive Text of \"Junk.\"\" It included a new introduction by Oliver Harris, the British literary scholar, who integrated new material never before published; Harris had found edits of deleted material in the literary archives of Allen Ginsberg.\n\nThe text is memorable for its content and style. The distant, dry, laconic tone of the narrator is balanced by the openness and honesty of the story. Burroughs shows courage in offering details about his narrator’s behavior. He speaks from the vantage point of an eyewitness, reporting back to ‘straights’ the feelings, thoughts, actions and characters he meets in the criminal fringe of New York, at the Lexington Federal Narcotics Hospital/Prison in Kentucky, and in New Orleans and Mexico City.\n\nThe story takes on a more personal tone when the narrator leaves New York. In subsequent sections the substantive facts are replaced by a more intimate, desperate search for meaning and escape from criminal sanction and permanent addiction. Throughout, there are flashes of Burroughs's fierce originality, acutely graphic description, and agonizingly candid confessions: traits that would mark his literature for the next forty years.\n\nPeruvian novelist Mario Vargas Llosa wrote that while he did not care for Burroughs's subsequent experimental fiction, he admired the more straightforward \"Junky\" both on its own merits and further as \"an accurate description of what I believe to be the literary vocation\"; i.e., the all-consuming nature of writing as similar to addiction.\n\nAt least three recordings have been issued featuring readings from this book. Some time in the late 1960s or early 1970s, Burroughs recorded an extensive passage from the book which was issued on a record album. Later, in the 1990s, two audiobook editions were released, one read by actor David Carradine, and another read by Burroughs himself.\n"}
{"id": "4133535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4133535", "title": "Keratometer", "text": "Keratometer\n\nA keratometer, also known as an ophthalmometer, is a diagnostic instrument for measuring the curvature of the anterior surface of the cornea, particularly for assessing the extent and axis of astigmatism. It was invented by the German physiologist Hermann von Helmholtz in 1851, although an earlier model was developed in 1796 by Jesse Ramsden and Everard Home.\n\nA keratometer uses the relationship between object size (O), image size (I), the distance between the reflective surface and the object (d), and the radius of the reflective surface (R). If three of these variables are known (or fixed), the fourth can be calculated using the formula\n\nThere are two distinct variants of determining R; Javal-Schiotz type keratometers have a fixed image size and are typically 'two position', whereas Bausch and Lomb type keratometers have a fixed object size and are usually 'one position'.\n\nThe Javal-Schiotz keratometer is a two position instrument which uses a fixed image and doubling size and adjustable object size to determine the radius of curvature of the reflective surface. It uses two self illuminated mires (the object), one a red square, the other a green staircase design, which are held on a circumferential track in order to maintain a fixed distance from the eye. \nIn order to get repeatable, accurate measurements, it is important that the instrument stays focused. It uses the Scheiner principle, common in autofocus devices, in which the converging reflected rays coming towards the eyepiece are viewed through (at least) two separate symmetrical apertures.\n\nThe Bausch and Lomb Keratometer is a one position keratometer that gives readings in dioptric form. It differs from the Javal-Schiotz in that object size is fixed, image size is the manipulable variable. The reflected rays are passed through a Scheiner disc with 4 apertures – As there are two prisms, each aligned perpendicular to the other, the major and minor axis powers can be measured independently without adjusting the orientation of the instrument.\n\nIn converting the measurements obtained from the corneal surface into a dioptric value, the B&L keratometer uses the general lens formula (n’-n)/R and assumes an n’ of 1.3375 (compared to the actual corneal refractive index of n’=1.376). This is a fictional value, which includes an allowance for the small, yet significant, negative power of the posterior corneal surface. This allows for a readout in both refractive power (dioptres) and radius of curvature (millimeters).\n\n"}
{"id": "57212241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57212241", "title": "Killing of disabled children in Uganda", "text": "Killing of disabled children in Uganda\n\nIn some parts of Uganda, disabled children are put to death. In traditional rituals, infant body parts are claimed to bring benefits. Those who continue these practices describe it as \"mercy killing\", meaning that the children are spared from enduring painful disabilities.\n\nMost of the time, a witch doctor will resort to these rituals to save the disabled children from their painful disability after the failure of multiple attempts using other methods that include herbal remedies or animal sacrifices which are less powerful . During the rituals of child sacrifice, the witch doctor is in presence of his accomplices and starts by verifying any evidence of demonization in the child . Then, he removes different parts of the child’s body by force and uses the blood to make a potion mixed with herbs . These body parts are mostly heads, genitals, eyes, tongues, limbs, teeth, and organs . According to the perpetrators, these rituals are necessary to bring about success, healing or wealth .\n\nThe ‘killing’ of disabled children in Uganda is perpetrated by witchdoctors who praise the power of these rituals to their clients in search of wealth, health or fame. Those witchdoctors are often compared to traditional healers which have resulted in the propaganda stating that witchcraft is associated with the healing practices of the indigenous culture although they are, in reality, responsible of horrible crimes unlike traditional healers who do not use human organs . The parents of disabled children also play a major role in the rituals by allowing it and leading their children to death because they believe that the so-called ‘mercy killing’ would avoid them the pain of enduring these disabilities.\n\nThe parliament of Uganda highly condemns \"mercy\" killing of newborn disabled children in Uganda as they regard it as an inhumane act.\n\nThe European Parliament was involved in finding resolutions for the killings of disabled people in Uganda. They argued that the killings should not take place because: human rights should be respected at all times, everyone has a right to life despite their disabilities. People with are often excluded from community activities. Disabled children are usually hidden from the public, cast out, and even killed. Mothers of these children experience isolation from their extended families, while most of the fathers neglect their families. The Ugandan National Household Survey reports only record disabled people of age 5 and above; leaving out most children. 7.1% of Ugandans, which is equivalent to 2.1 million people are reported to be disabled.\n\nIn Uganda, the laws the law prohibits discrimination against persons with physical, sensory, intellectual,or mental disabilities in employment, education, air travel and other transportation,access to health care, and the provision of other state services.\nHowever, the government's efforts in enforcing these laws have not been effective.\n\nThe form of treatment given to people with disability has not been encouraging of late. A July report released by the National Council on Disability (NCD) indicated 55 percent of persons with disabilities lacked functional literacy skills,and only 33 percent studied to primary grade seven. The report found some children with mental disabilities were sometimes denied food and were tied to trees and beds with ropes in order to control their movements. The report further stated the needs of children with autism and learning difficulties were ignored due to an insufficient number of special needs schools.\n\nGovernment agencies responsible for protecting the rights of persons with disabilities included the Ministry of State for Disabled Persons,the NCD, and the Ministry of Gender, Labor, and Social Development, but these entities lacked sufficient funding to undertake any significant initiatives.\n\nIn the governments effort to ensure that there is adequate representation of people with disability in roles of position, there are 5 seats in parliament which have been reserved for persons with disability.\nThese initiatives by the government will ensure that the minority group which have been oppressed systematically for decades will now have a form of empowerment.\n"}
{"id": "9025001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9025001", "title": "List of UN numbers 2201 to 2300", "text": "List of UN numbers 2201 to 2300\n\nThe UN numbers from UN2201 to UN2300 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "413663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413663", "title": "Magen David Adom", "text": "Magen David Adom\n\nThe Magen David Adom (✡; , abbr. MDA, pronounced \"MAH-dah\" per its Hebrew acronym, \"מד\"א\") is Israel's national emergency medical, disaster, ambulance and blood bank service. The name means \"Red Star of David\". Since June 2006, Magen David Adom has been officially recognized by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) as the national aid society of the State of Israel under the Geneva Conventions, and a member of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. MDA has a dedicated medical emergency phone number in Israel, 101.\n\nThe Magen David Adom organization was formed by nurse Karen Tenenbaum in 1930 as a volunteer association with a single branch in Tel Aviv. After opening branches in Jerusalem and Haifa, it was extended nationwide five years later, providing medical support to the public including not only Jews, but Arabs (Muslim, Druze, and Christian). On 12 July 1950, the Knesset passed a law making MDA's status as Israel's national emergency service official; The objectives of Magen David include maintaining first aid services; maintaining a storage service of blood, plasma and their by-products; instruction in first aid and pre-hospital emergency medicine; operating a volunteer program in which volunteers are trained in first aid, basic and advanced life support including mobile intensive care units; transportation of patients, women in labor, and evacuation of those wounded and killed in road accidents; transportation of doctors, nurses and medical auxiliary forces. In the late 1960s the organization refocused its rapid trauma treatment and transport protocols due to the efforts of Dr. Nancy Caroline. Dr. Caroline's work at Magen David Adom was based upon studies she conducted with Dr. Peter Safar and the Freedom House Paramedics of Pittsburgh.\n\nMagen David Adom is mainly staffed by volunteers, and has over 10,000 people volunteering over one million man-hours per year. The minimum age to join Magen David Adom's basic first aid course and become a volunteer is 15.\n\nSince 2001, international volunteers aged 18 and over have the option to come to Israel for a two-month MDA Overseas Program in Memory of Yochai Porat . The program is named after its founder and first coordinator, who was killed by a sniper on 3 March 2002 while serving reserve duty as a combat medic in the Israel Defense Forces. All volunteers pass a 60-hour course that covers a wide range of topics ranging from common medical conditions and trauma situations to mass casualty events. Those who pass the course are then dispatched throughout the country and work with local volunteers in ambulances to provide initial medical care on the regular and Mobile Intensive Care Ambulances.\n\nWhile the programme was originally financially supported by the Jewish Agency for Israel, it has recently been taken over by the Israel Experience organization, which also offers programs for Jewish youths on Birthright Israel trips.\n\nVisitors to Israel are also welcome to donate blood through the \"Sharing for Life\" program. Since its inception in 2001, increasing numbers of people have donated blood, usually through groups such as Christian solidarity missions, or family Bar-Bat Mitzvas, especially during seasonal traditional pilgrimage times, such as Passover and Easter.\n\nAlthough MDA currently staffs approximately 2,000 emergency medical technicians, paramedics and emergency physicians, it still relies heavily on over 15,000 volunteers who serve in both operational and administrative capacities. MDA headquarters and its blood bank are located at the Tel HaShomer complex in the center of the country. The organization operates 119 stations over the country, with a fleet of over 1000 ambulances nationwide. Among them are mobile intensive care units (MICU), special ambulances equipped for mass casualty events, and armored ambulances. Most of the fleet is made up of regular size vans providing Basic Life Support. These are called \"Lavan\" (which in Hebrew means \"White\") due to their external aspect and to differentiate them from the MICU, which have orange stripes on the sides. They are manned by EMTs who generally have ranks equivalent to Basic and Intermediate EMTs in the US. In Israel, they are called \"ma'ar\" (first responders), \"ma'ar bachir\" (Certified first responder over 18, with some additional training), \"chovesh\" (EMT-B), and \"chovesh bachir\" (EMT-I). Ambulance drivers are EMTs or higher with a drivers' license for emergency vehicles. MICUs similar to the US Type II units and manned by paramedics and physicians respond only to the most medically serious cases. They are called Natan (if a physician is on board) or Atan (if it is only staffed by paramedics and EMTs). Major stations include special units (called \"Taaran\") for responding to mass casualty events such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks.\n\nIn some cases Air ambulance service is provided by Israeli Air Force 669 unit with MEDEVAC helicopters. However, in 2008, MDA started to provide paramedics for three EMS MBB Bo 105s imported from Germany by Lahak Aviation Ltd. These three helicopters (out of four brought by Lahak) are operated by Lahak Aviation's operating company, Shapirit Air Services Ltd., as Ambulance helicopters. Previous attempts by MDA to integrate independent helicopter service in the 1970s were unsuccessful because of high cost.\n\nUnique among civilian emergency medical services due to its role as national aid society according to the Geneva Conventions, MDA can become an auxiliary arm of the Israel Defense Forces during times of war.\n\nDecommissioned MDA ambulances have been donated to a number of kibbutzim, moshavim, factories, and communities on both sides of the Green Line. Crews manning these lifesaving vehicles are trained and certified by Magen David Adom.\n\nMDA has a dedicated medical emergency phone number in Israel, 101.\n\nFrom its creation until 2006, Magen David Adom was denied membership in the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement since it had refused to replace its red Star of David emblem with a pre-approved symbol.\n\nThe stated reason for the denial of membership was concerns about symbol proliferation; at the same 1929 conference that granted use of the Red Crescent and Red Lion and Sun, a limitation was placed on acceptance of any further emblems. The \"Red Star of David\" symbol was not submitted to the ICRC until 1931.\n\nSimilar concerns of India, Ceylon, and the former Soviet Union regarding the use of non-Hindu and seemingly religious symbols were also dismissed by the ICRC, but their national bodies chose to adopt the Red Cross as their official emblems in order to gain entry. The Red Cross — the inverse of the Swiss flag, the country of origin of the founder of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement — is not intended as a religious symbol, but is often perceived as such. \n\nCritics of the ICRC assert discrimination since Turkey and Egypt were granted membership in 1929 while using the Islamic Red Crescent as its emblem, citing the same concerns about the cross.\n\nIn her March 2000 letter to the \"International Herald Tribune\", Dr. Bernadine Healy, then president of the American Red Cross, wrote: \"The international committee's feared proliferation of symbols is a pitiful fig leaf, used for decades as the reason for excluding the Magen David Adom — the Shield (or Star) of David.\" In protest, the American Red Cross withheld millions in administrative funding to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) since May 2000.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, there has also been extensive and growing co-operation between MDA and the ICRC including, among other things, a USD$2.2 million expenditure on strengthening ties between the two organisations, the signing in 2000 of a two-year co-operation statement, the permanent placement of an ICRC co-operation officer in MDA headquarters, and extensive support of the MDA's blood bank activities. In addition, there are bilateral cooperation agreements between MDA and a number of national Red Cross societies.\n\nOn 7 December 2005, a diplomatic conference of states party to the Geneva Conventions adopted a third additional protocol, thereby introducing a new protective emblem, dubbed the \"Red Crystal.\" This third protocol emblem is hailed as a truly universal emblem free of religious, ethnic, or political connotation. The new symbol is a red square frame tilted at a 45-degree angle. According to the rules of the third additional protocol, MDA can continue to use the Red Star of David as its sole emblem for indicative purposes within Israel. For indicative use in abroad missions, MDA can, depending on the specific situation in the host country, either incorporate the Red Star of David inside the Red Crystal or use the Red Crystal alone.\n\nOn 22 June 2006, MDA was recognised by the ICRC and admitted as a full member of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent societies, following adoption of the Red Crystal symbol in the statutes of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement on the same level as the Red Cross and Red Crescent symbols.\n\nThe MDA's admission to the International Federation was conditioned on agreements signed in 2005 with the Palestine Red Crescent Society. Under these agreements, the red Magen David symbol could not be used in countries other than Israel; moreover the MDA agreed not to operate in the West Bank or in East Jerusalem.\n\nUnder the 2005 agreements, the MDA agreed to operate within the international legal framework applicable to the Palestinian territory occupied by Israel in 1967, and recognized that the Palestine Red Cross Society was the authorized national society in the Palestinian territory. The MDA had therefore to discontinue its operations in the West Bank. In December 2011, the International Conference of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement \"noted with regret\" that the 2005 agreement had not been fully implemented and decided to continue the monitoring process. A few months earlier, Dani Dayan from the Yesha Council, a settler organization, had accused the MDA of removing the red Magen David from ambulances operating in the West Bank. Dayan asserted that the MDA was doing so under pressure from the International Committee of the Red Cross. An MDA spokesman replied that the MDA continued to use the classic Red Star logo on its ambulances housed in 12 places across the West Bank. \nIn October 2011 Yonatan Yagodovsky, director of MDA's fundraising department, declared that \"the MDA will continue to use its emblem and logo, and no one ever asked us to take it off.\" In January 2012, the ICRC confirmed that MDA had in fact agreed to stop all services within the West Bank. Rescue efforts would \"officially\" be administered by regional councils instead, and would not use the red Magen David symbol. As a result, many contributors reportedly stopped donating to the MDA; some young settlers, a considerable percentage of the volunteer force, stopped volunteering for the MDA in protest. The MDA told international authorities in November 2011 that it had already changed the markings on 62 of 68 ambulances posted in settlements. The emblem on five mobile intensive care units and nine ambulances that MDA still operating in the West Bank will be replaced by the end of 2012.\n\nMagen David Adom's tracing service was established to assist in locating relatives lost in the Holocaust. In 2000–2007, the service handled 5,000 applications.\n\nThe Magen David Adom blood drive came under criticism after reports that blood from Ethiopian donors had been discarded due to concerns about HIV/AIDS. Magen David Adom spokesman Yeruham Mendola responded to the claims by saying: \"The guidelines set by the Ministry of Health determines that anyone who was born, or who lived for over a year since 1977 in Central Africa, Southeast Asia or the Caribbean Islands, or has spent over six months in Britain, or was in France, Ireland or Portugal for over 10 years — can choose not to donate blood, or donate blood, which is then marked, and know that it will not be used for transfusions.\" In 2006, a protest of some 10,000 Ethiopians outside the Prime Minister's office led to violent clashes with the police. Shimon Peres, serving as Vice Prime Minister in the cabinet of Ehud Olmert, apologized to the Ethiopian Jewish community for this policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19525973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19525973", "title": "Mamelon (dentistry)", "text": "Mamelon (dentistry)\n\nA mamelon (from French \"mamelon\", \"nipple\"), is one of three rounded protuberances which are present on the cutting edge of an incisor tooth when it first erupts through the gum. Mamelons are quickly worn away by use.\nMamelons are easiest to observe on the Maxillary central incisors, and appear as three small prominences on the incisal edge of the tooth. Mamelons are ordinarily of no clinical importance. Usually they are worn off early in the life of the tooth. However, when an anterior open bite is present — that is, the anterior teeth are not in contact when the bite is fully closed — mamelons may remain into adulthood. \n"}
{"id": "32545826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32545826", "title": "Millennium Cohort Family Study", "text": "Millennium Cohort Family Study\n\nThe Millennium Cohort Family Study, a sub-study of the Millennium Cohort Study (United States), is a United States Department of Defense-sponsored project designed to evaluate the short- and long-term effects of the military experience on Service members and their families. Both studies are conducted at the Naval Health Research Center in San Diego, California. The research teams include uniformed officers as well as investigators from the Department of Defense and academic institutions.\n\nThe purpose of the Millennium Cohort Family Study is to gain a more complete understanding of the military experience and its impact on the health and well-being of Service members and their families. The Family Study also provides a unique opportunity to explore the impact of relationship quality on the physical and psychological health of Service members, their spouses and children. A comprehensive understanding of the challenges faced by military families provides a vehicle to create truly effective interventions and support mechanisms.\n\nA cohort study follows a distinct group of people over an extended period of time. In epidemiological research, only a cohort study has the strength to describe long-term health outcomes that are of concern to the military. Important health facts, which may seem obvious now, were not always known to be true - they were learned through cohort studies. For example, we know that smoking causes lung cancer and that untreated high blood pressure causes heart disease, but less than 50 years ago, these relationships were not clear.\n\nMore than 5 million US military personnel have been deployed in support of the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, with nearly 800,000 deploying multiple times and over 3 million children and spouses directly affected by the deployment of a Service member. Family relationships play an important role in the functioning and well-being of US military Service members, yet few studies have examined the impact of deployment and occupational exposures on family members.\n\nThe Family Study is a longitudinal study designed to follow spouses of Service members from all branches of the military, including the National Guard and Reserve, for 21 years. Spouses of Service members participating in the Millennium Cohort Study were invited to complete a baseline questionnaire between 2011 and 2013 and will be re-surveyed every three years. Because families and family relationships change over time, spouses are asked to complete follow-up surveys every three years, even if their spouse is no longer in the service or their marital status changes. The questionnaire asks participants about their mental and physical health, the quality of their marital and family relationships, their deployment and reunion experiences, their perception of how their spouse is coping, and the effects of military life and deployment on their children. Participation in the Family Study is completely voluntary.\n\n"}
{"id": "21535479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21535479", "title": "Ministry of Health and Child Care (Zimbabwe)", "text": "Ministry of Health and Child Care (Zimbabwe)\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Child Care (MoHCC) is the government ministry responsible for health in Zimbabwe. Obadiah Moyo has headed the ministry since September 2018. The Permanent Secretary is Major General Dr Gerald Gwinji.\n\nIts oversees:\n\n"}
{"id": "20869296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20869296", "title": "Mitchell L. Walker", "text": "Mitchell L. Walker\n\nMitchell Lynn Walker (born 1951) is an American gay activist and Jungian psychologist who has written many influential articles and books on gay-centered psychology.\n\nWalker enrolled at the University of California, Los Angeles where he saw a therapist who tried to persuade him to not be gay. Although Walker rejected the therapist he did get \"an invaluable introduction to inner work, to the techniques of dream analysis, and to other tools of psychological investigation.\" Walker transferred to the Berkeley campus and majored in psychology. He became more outspoken on gay issues and became one of the first to join the Berkeley Free Clinic's Gay Men Collective. After graduation he worked on a master's-level in psychology at San Francisco's Lone Mountain College focussing on same-sex love from Jung's \"archetypal perspective\" using the basis that archetypes are \"primal indwelling sources after which behavior is patterned and images are perceived.\" In 1974 Walker had a realization that same-sex love was archetypal, not \"a mere accident or adaption,\" answering the question if one was born gay or does gayness come from social experience. His revelation led to his master's thesis \"discussing the then unheard-of topic of gay depth psychology.\" \nWalker was the first openly gay writer to be published in the formal Jungian literature, for his paper, \"The Double: An Archetypal Configuration,\" appeared in Spring in 1976. followed by \"Jung and Homophobia,\" published in Spring in 1991. He is also the author of \"Men Loving Men: A Gay Sex Guide & Consciousness Book\" (Gay Sunshine Press, 1977/1994) - which was involved in an obscenity-importing case in England - and \"Visionary Love: A Spirit Book of Gay Mythology and Transmutational Faerie\" (Treeroots Press, 1980).\n\nIn 1979, Walker co-created with activists Harry Hay, John Burnside, and Don Kilhefner the first gay-centered spiritual movement, the Radical Faeries, a loosely affiliated, worldwide network and counter-cultural movement seeking to reject hetero-imitation and redefine queer identity through spirituality.\n\nIn 1987 Walker received a Ph.D. in psychology with the dissertation, \"A Uranian Conjunction: The Individual Model of C. G. Jung as Applied to Gay Men.\" He has continued lecturing, teaching and running a private practice in Los Angeles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44209419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44209419", "title": "NHS Plan 2000", "text": "NHS Plan 2000\n\nThe NHS Plan 2000 was a ten year plan of the Blair ministry for the National Health Service (England). It combined a commitment to substantial investment with some quite radical changes. The most controversial aspect of the plan was the introduction of more private sector providers and a more competitive internal market. The plan, coming shortly after devolution, marked the beginning of divergence between the NHS in England and NHS Wales. NHS Scotland was legally distinct from England from the beginning of the NHS in 1948.\n\nNHS Wales produced Improving Health in Wales early in 2001\n\nUnlike some later plans for NHS reform there was a great deal of effort devoted to marshalling political support for the plan. At the beginning of the printed document were two pages with the signatures of 25 prominent leaders in the health field, including doctors, Trades Unions, patient charities and the Local Government Association\n\nThe main features the Plan promised were:\n\nTony Blair in his foreword promised that the March 2000 Budget settlement meant that the NHS would grow by one half in cash terms and by one third in real terms in five years.\n\nOther developments flowing from the Plan included NHS care trusts, Nurse prescribing, Patient Advice and Liaison Services and the abolition of Community Health Councils.\n\nPatients were promised that letters about an individual patient’s care will be copied to the patient, that there would be better information to help patients choose a GP and that there would be proper redress when operations were cancelled on the day they are due to take place.\n\nAccording to Jennifer Dixon of the King's Fund writing in the British Medical Journal just after publication: \"This is probably as good as it gets: a significant injection of money for the NHS sustained over five years coupled with a comprehensive national plan\".\n\nThe core principles of the plan were still being celebrated by the Socialist Health Association in 2013.\n\nIn 2014 there was a great deal of reflection on the NHS plan when Simon Stevens, who was one of the authors of the Plan produced the Five Year Forward View of the NHS in England. Fraser Nelson described it as a \"brilliant, radical and enduring document\" which \"prescribed a heavy dose of market reform\" - of which he approved. He claimed that Alan Milburn redefined the NHS as a means of paying for healthcare, not necessarily providing it.\n\n"}
{"id": "47258809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47258809", "title": "Ni Ni Khin Zaw", "text": "Ni Ni Khin Zaw\n\nNi Ni Khin Zaw (; born 31 August 1991) is a Burmese pop singer. She won the 2008 season of \"Melody World\", a televised singing competition. Ni Ni performed in the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2013 Southeast Asian Games in Naypyidaw.\n\nNi Ni was born on 31 August 1991 in Yekyi, Myanmar. She attended and graduated from the University of Medicine 2, Yangon.\n\nNi Ni started her music career participating as a contestant in \"Melody World\", a televised singing competition. She won the 2008 Melody World and got her big break after competing in the competition. She became famous after the 27th SEA Games. She sang three great songs, Myanmar, the Country of our Blood Friends (), Everlasting Myanmar () and See You Again (), in the opening and closing ceremonies. Her song, Myanmar, the Country of our Blood Friends is very famous even today. She also sang the Theme Song of the 24th ASEAN Summit. She presented her first one lady show in Yangon on 1 April 2017. She presented her second one lady show on 7 and 8 April 2018.\n\n\n1st Major M Music Awards (2018) <ref>\n"}
{"id": "44848510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44848510", "title": "Nigel Edwards (health)", "text": "Nigel Edwards (health)\n\nNigel Edwards is a health policy researcher, appointed Chief Executive at the Nuffield Trust in April 2014.\n\nHe was formerly an expert advisor with KPMG’s Global Centre of Excellence for Health and Life Sciences, a Senior Fellow at The King’s Fund. He was Policy Director of the NHS Confederation for 11 years.\n\nHe has commented on government announcements about the English NHS, such as George Osborne's promise to find extra cash for the NHS, and the reconfiguration of cancer services in Staffordshire. In 2014 he is reported as saying \" that \"there's nothing intrinsically bad about private or public sector provision\", and that the Better Care Fund might live up to the advertised savings if it concentrated entirely on moving people out of hospital into residential care.\n\nHe was reckoned by the Health Service Journal to be the 42nd most influential person in the English NHS in 2015.\n\nAs of autumn 2017 Edwards is concerned about the condition and funding of the NHS. Edwards stated, “It is indisputable that the NHS is facing a yet another difficult winter. But whether or not it experiences a full-blown crisis will depend largely on unpredictable events, like a sudden outbreak of flu or norovirus. What is clear is that, seven years into austerity, the pressure on the system is immense, making the health service much less resilient to these kinds of events than is comfortable.”\n"}
{"id": "21979272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21979272", "title": "Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act", "text": "Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act\n\nOn December 19, 2006, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA), Public Law No. 109-417, was signed into law by President George W. Bush. PAHPA has broad implications for the United States Department of Health and Human Services's (HHS) preparedness and response activities. Among other things, the act amended the Public Health Service Act to establish within the department a new Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR); provided new authorities for a number of programs, including the advanced development and acquisitions of medical countermeasures; and called for the establishment of a quadrennial National Health Security Strategy.\n\nThe purpose of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act is \"to improve the Nation's public health and medical preparedness and response capabilities for emergencies, whether deliberate, accidental, or natural.\"\n\nThe law was most recently reauthorized by Congress in 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn January 2018, the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee held two separate hearings on the reauthorization of the PAHPA law. The conclusion from many witnesses who testified before the hearings is that \"decreased and episodic funding from the United States government has stakeholders questioning the true commitment federal lawmakers have for sustaining the nation's preparedness and response capabilities during a catastrophic event linked to infectious diseases, natural disasters or chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear (CBRN) agents.\"\n\nMany provisions in PAHPA are set to expire in September 2018 unless Congress reauthorizes them.\n\nOne of the two January 2018 committee hearings focused on the private sector's relationship with providing preparedness and response capabilities. Private sector witnesses expressed concerns about the decreased or lack of federal funding for preparedness and response, saying that it's gotten to the point where the U.S. government's reputation is at stake with companies and public health and medical professionals.\n\n\"Unfortunately, over the last several years, the private sector has become more skeptical of the government's commitment to biodefense,\" testified Brent MacGregor of Seqirus, a global influenza vaccine developer and manufacturer.\n\nLike many laws that authorize activities for federal agencies, PAHPA must be reauthorized by its expiration date in order for the law to continue taking effect. As of January 2018, most of the provisions in PAHPA are set to expire in September 2018. The Senate HELP Committee started the process of reauthorizing the law with a set of hearings beginning on January 17, 2018.\n\nU.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) sponsored both Senate versions of PAHPA authorization and reauthorization. The original bill, S. 3678, which created PAHPA, became law in 2006. In 2013, Burr sponsored the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act (PAHPRA) of 2013, S. 242, which became law that same year.\n\nOn May 15, 2018, Burr introduced the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act of 2018 (bill number S. 2852). Original cosponsors of the bill were U.S. Senators Bob Casey (D-PA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and Patty Murray (D-WA).\n\nThe Alliance for Biosecurity and U.S. Chamber of Commerce wrote a joint letter to all U.S. House members urging their passage of the House version, H.R. 6378 (the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act of 2018). Congresswoman Susan Brooks (R-IN) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives (H.R. 6378). The bill increases funding to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to develop responses to pandemics and biological threats. Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA), who coauthored the bill with Brooks, called it \"critical to our national security.\"\n\nOn June 15, 2018, the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a hearing focused on discussing biopreparedness oversight issues and stressing the need to reauthorize PAHPA. One of the witnesses, Rick Bright, director of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), proposed that \"cutting-edge testing tools\" developed by private companies should go directly to doctors' offices for \"rapid, regional response to outbreaks, rather than funneling samples primarily to the CDC for testing.\"\n\nThe chairman of the HELP Committee, Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN), said, \"I look forward to a timely, bipartisan reauthorization of this crucial legislation to ensure we are prepared to respond to natural disasters like hurricanes, and protect Americans against bioterror attacks and infectious disease outbreaks, like the Zika virus or a pandemic influenza.\"\n\nThe purpose of reauthorizing PAHPA is to protect public health from threats coming from exposure to infectious diseases, natural disasters or chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear (CBRN) agents.\n\nDuring the committee hearing, Burr said that the U.S. is not fully prepared and that gaps have left the U.S. vulnerable to both terrorists and natural threats. He said that developing countermeasures \"should be top of mind.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20688404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20688404", "title": "ROHHAD", "text": "ROHHAD\n\nRapid-onset obesity with hypothalamic dysregulation, hypoventilation, and autonomic dysregulation (ROHHAD) is a rare condition whose etiology is currently unknown. ROHHAD mainly affects the endocrine system and autonomic nervous system, but patients can exhibit a variety of symptoms. Patients present with both alveolar hypoventilation along with hypothalamic dysfunction, which distinguishes ROHHAD from congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS). ROHHAD is a rare disease, with only 100 reported cases worldwide thus far.\n\nThe first sign of ROHHAD is a rapid weight gain between 1.5 and 11 years of age. Typically, hypoventilation, or abnormally slow breathing, presents after the rapid onset obesity. Symptoms of hypothalamic dysfunction and autonomic dysfunction present in a variety of ways, but in order for a diagnosis of ROHHAD they must be present in some form. Approximately 40% of patients will develop neuroendocrine tumors. There is also a possibility of behavioral disorders, but some children with ROHHAD have normal cognitive development and intelligence.\n\nTreatment plans for ROHHAD vary depending on each patient's symptoms. There is no cure, so treatment is geared toward managing the symptoms that each patient manifests. ROHHAD is fatal in 50-60% of cases due to cardiopulmonary arrest secondary to untreated hypoventilation. The earlier the disease is diagnosed and treatment starts, the better a child's prognosis is.\n\nThe rapid onset obesity aspect of ROHHAD is usually the first diagnostic indicator of the disease. Patients often present with hyperphagia and rapid weight gain. This rapid weight gain is defined as 20-30 pounds over a 6-12 month period, and typically occurs between the ages of 1.5 and 11.\n\nHypothalamic dysfunction refers to the hypothalamus, which is a structure within the brain which participates in regulating the pituitary gland, autonomic nervous system, and endocrine system. Symptoms related to hypothalamic dysfunction may include abnormal sodium balance (hyponatremia or hypernatremia), high progestin levels, low cortisol levels, delayed or early-onset puberty, and low thyroid hormone. Patients will also often experience a decelerated growth rate throughout childhood.\n\nSodium imbalance within the body can have severe symptoms and be potentially life-threatening if not controlled. Hyponatremia, or low sodium levels, can cause symptoms such as nausea, headache, seizures, or even cause patients to become comatose. Hypernatremia, or high sodium levels in the blood, can cause nausea, muscle weakness, altered mental status, or coma. Irregular temperature regulation and diabetes insipidus are also possible symptoms of hypothalamic dysfunction.\n\nROHHAD patients develop these symptoms at varying ages and in varying numbers, but all patients will develop some symptoms of hypothalamic dysfunction.\n\nSymptoms of hypoventilation and breathing malfunctions typically present after the rapid weight gain. Some patients may initially develop obstructive sleep apnea, which is common in obese children. Obstructive sleep apena is the most common form of sleep apnea, and causes breathing to abruptly stop and begin again during sleep. This is caused by throat muscles relaxing during sleep and blocking the airway, and is typically noticed as patients will snore loudly throughout the night. Every patient diagnosed with ROHHAD develops alveolar hypoventilation, regardless of whether they presented with sleep apnea. Alveolar hypoventilation is a condition in which patients have very low blood oxygen levels and shallow breathing. In healthy patients, when blood oxygen levels are low, the brain sends a signal to breathe and bring more oxygen to the blood. In ROHHAD patients, this reaction does not occur. This condition is usually only present during sleep, however in more severely affected patients shallow breathing may continue throughout the day. Hypoventilation can go unnoticed until cardiopulmonary arrest, which is why ROHHAD has the potential to be a fatal disease. Ventilatory support is required for patients during sleep, however it is only needed during waking hours for those most severely affected (about 50% of patients).\n\nAutonomic dysfunction refers to the autonomic nervous system, which is responsible for regulating internal processes without conscious intervention. This may involve abnormalities in cardiac rhythm, temperature regulation, digestion, and eye movements. Not all ROHHAD patients will experience all of these symptoms, however they will have at least some of these issues. Examples of autonomic dysfunction include hyperthermia, hypothermia, pupillary dysfunction, strabismus, chronic constipation, and chronic diarrhea.\n\nApproximately 40% of ROHHAD patients will develop tumors originating in the neural crest. These tumors are typically classified as ganglioneuroma or ganglioneuroblastomas. These tumors are not believed to significantly worsen or contribute to the prognosis of ROHHAD. It was suggested that ROHHAD be renamed ROHHADNET in order to include these tumors in the diagnostic criteria, but this has only been adopted for patients who develop these tumors.\n\nSome children diagnosed with ROHHAD may also prevent with behavioral disorders and/or intellectual disability, however this is believed to be a result of low oxygen levels secondary to hypoventilation during childhood development. The later ROHHAD is diagnosed, the greater the risk for behavioral problems due to hypoxia from hypoventilation or during cardiopulmonary arrest.\n\nThe etiology of ROHHAD is currently unknown, and the condition is diagnosed based on a set of clinical criteria. It is believed that there may be a genetic component to ROHHAD, however there is no widely accepted gene linked to the disease. There has been one ROHHAD patient identified to have a mutation in the retinoic acid-induced 1(RAI1) gene through Whole Exome Sequencing, but there has been no otherwise proven link between the RAI1 gene and ROHHAD.\n\nIt is believed that ROHHAD originates from a combination of genetic and environmental or immunological factors. As of yet, evidence of its etiology has not been discovered and is not well understood.\n\nIn 2011, a case of monozygotic twins with divergent ROHHAD phenotypes was reported. One twin was affected with ROHHAD and developed symptoms, while the other twin developed normally. This report questioned the theory that ROHHAD is genetically inherited, and the authors suggest that the disease may have an autoimmune or epigenetic etiology.\n\nThe pathophysiology of ROHHAD is not currently known or understood.\n\nRapid obesity is the first symptom to arise between the ages of 1.5 and 11. This is typically followed by hypoventilation, which if left untreated, can result in fatal cardiorespiratory arrest. This is why early diagnosis has proven to be imperative for ROHHAD patients, and it has been suggested that ROHHAD be considered in every isolated case of early rapid-onset obesity. Early diagnosis is also vital in maintaining electrolyte and hormone balances caused by hypothalamic dysfunction in order to promote healthy development and prevent further problems.\n\nAs the symptoms of ROHHAD are so diverse and the condition is so rare, the disease is often misdiagnosed as Cushing's disease or Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome when it first presents in patients.\n\nAs the cause of ROHHAD is unknown, there is no way to prevent onset of the disease.\n\nThere is no known cure for ROHHAD, therefore treatment for the disease involves managing symptoms as they manifest in the patient. As not all ROHHAD patients develop the same symptoms, treatment plans vary between patients. Proper treatment of hypothalamic dysfunction and hypoventilation is the most critical aspect of ROHHAD management, as these symptoms have the greatest ability to cause death or behavioral problems if left uncontrolled.\n\nAttempting to control weight through diet and exercise can be exceedingly difficult in patients with ROHHAD due to a number of factors. Encouraging ROHHAD patients to exercise vigorously can be dangerous, as their breathing will not increase with exertion and this can cause hypoxia. Therefore, it is important for ROHHAD patients to exercise at a moderate intensity and for their oxygen levels to be monitored throughout. Typically, the obesity associated with ROHHAD is managed by preventing further weight gain as the child grows.\n\nTreatment for hypothalamic dysfunction is tailored to each patient's needs, as there is no set of hypothalamic symptoms that all ROHHAD patients will manifest.All ROHHAD patients should be evaluated by a pediatric endocrinologist in order to determine a treatment plan for hypothalamic dysfunction.\n\nPatients may be given human growth hormone to treat stunted growth, or hormone replacement to treat any hormone deficiencies. Often patients are placed on a strict fluid regimen to treat for imbalances such as hyponatremia or hypernatremia. Patients who present with diabetes insipidus may also be treated with desmopressin, a synthetic replacement for anti-diuretic hormone.\n\nEvery ROHHAD patient requires some form of ventilatory support, ranging from non-invasive BiPAP machines to tracheostomy procedures. Approximately 50% of ROHHAD patients will require ventilatory support day and night, whereas the other half only require night-time support.\n\nA bilevel positive airway pressure machine, or BiPAP, is a ventilator mask worn at night. The BiPAP pushes air into the lungs, therefore breathing for the patient. This is helpful for ROHHAD patients, as hypoventilation causes the mechanism that controls breathing in oxygen to slow and sometimes stop during sleep.\n\nA tracheostomy is the result of a surgical procedure to create a hole in the trachea in order to give access to ventilatory tubing. This procedure is performed to create an airway in situations when long term continuous use of a ventilator is needed. ROHHAD patients whose hypoventilation is so severe that they require support during the day and night will often undergo tracheostomies.\n\nTreatment for autonomic dysfunction varies greatly on the severity of the dysfunction and the type. Many patients with ROHHAD experience strabismus, which is a weakness in eye muscle causing a \"cross-eyed\" effect. This can be treated with glasses, eye muscle exercises, or even surgery. ROHHAD patients also often experience bradycardia, or low heart rate. This may require a cardiac pacemaker be placed in order to regulate heartbeat. Gastrointestinal problems, such as constipation or diarrhea, are often treated on an as-needed basis with laxatives or dietary changes. It is also important that ambient temperatures are monitored in patients who have temperature regulation issues such as hyperthermia or hypothermia.\n\nTumors of neural crest origin develop in approximately 40% of patients. These are typically ganglioneuromas or ganglioneuroblastomas. Neural crest tumors have the ability to form in multiple organs tissues throughout the body, typically in the chest or abdomen. It is therefore important for ROHHAD patients to have regular MRI and CT scans to screen for tumor growth. It is believed that these tumors do not significantly affect the prognosis for ROHHAD patients. Neuroendocrine tumors can arise 7–16 years after the initial onset of symptoms, therefore the name ROHHADNET (which includes these tumors) has not been widely accepted as it is believed this name would lead to further misdiagnosis. Treatment for these neuroendocrine tumors requires surgical removal, typically performed by a pediatric oncologist.\n\nThe most dangerous and fatal aspect of ROHHAD is the potential for cardiopulmonary arrest if hypoventilation is not found and treated in a timely manner. Approximately 50 to 60% of ROHHAD patients die due to cardiopulmonary arrest. The earlier symptoms are identified and patients are diagnosed, the more positive their outcomes are.\n\nIt has been found that children who are diagnosed earlier in life and received treatment for hypoventilation and hypothalamic dysfunction (fluid imbalances, etc.) are less likely to develop behavioral issues or experience sudden cardiorespiratory arrest later in life.\n\nA group at Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago has an international repository for patients with ROHHAD, which is available to researchers who are interested in the disease.\n\nAs of June 2018, there are 3 clinical trials currently recruiting patients with ROHHAD being performed respectively at Lurie Children's Hospital, Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center, and Boston Children's Hospital.\n\nThere have been at least 100 documented cases of ROHHAD worldwide.\n\nROHHAD was first described in 1965, and this was believed to be the first reported instance of hypoventilation presenting alongside hypothalamic dysfunction.\n\nROHHAD had often been mistaken for congenital central hypoventilation syndrome, until the distinction was made by Ize-Ludlow et al. in 2007. These conditions are now permanently differentiated from one other, as patients with CCHS have mutations in the PHOX2B gene, whereas ROHHAD patients do not.\n\nThe ROHHAD Association is an organization that aims to increase awareness for ROHHAD and promote research opportunities. They also organized fundraisers and events in order to give to researchers and promote visibility of ROHHAD. ROHHAD Fight Inc is a charity that was created for Marisa, a child who was diagnosed with ROHHAD, with the goal of raising awareness for the condition.\n\n"}
{"id": "29499351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29499351", "title": "Registered Nurse Certified in Inpatient Obstetrics", "text": "Registered Nurse Certified in Inpatient Obstetrics\n\nRegistered Nurse, Certified in Inpatient Obstetrics (RNC-OB) is the designation for an obstetrical nurse who has earned nursing board certification from the National Certification Corporation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1301665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1301665", "title": "Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals", "text": "Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals\n\nRegistration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) is a European Union regulation dating from 18 December 2006. REACH addresses the production and use of chemical substances, and their potential impacts on both human health and the environment. Its 849 pages took seven years to pass, and it has been described as the most complex legislation in the Union's history and the most important in 20 years. It is the strictest law to date regulating chemical substances and will affect industries throughout the world. REACH entered into force on 1 June 2007, with a phased implementation over the next decade. The regulation also established the European Chemicals Agency, which manages the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of REACH.\n\nWhen REACH is fully in force, it will require all companies manufacturing or importing chemical substances into the European Union in quantities of one tonne or more per year to register these substances with a new European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) in , Finland. Since REACH applies to some substances that are contained in objects (\"articles\" in REACH terminology), any company importing goods into Europe could be affected.\n\nThe European Chemicals Agency has set three major deadlines for registration of chemicals. In general these are determined by tonnage manufactured or imported, with 1000 tonnes/a. being required to be registered by 1 December 2010, 100 tonnes/a. by 1 June 2013 and 1 tonne/a. by 1 June 2018. In addition, chemicals of higher concern or toxicity also have to meet the 2010 deadline.\n\nAbout 143,000 chemical substances marketed in the European Union were pre-registered by the 1 December 2008 deadline. Although pre-registering was not mandatory, it allows potential registrants much more time before they have to fully register. Supply of substances to the European market which have not been pre-registered or registered is illegal (known in REACH as \"no data, no market\").\n\nREACH also addresses the continued use of chemical \"substances of very high concern\" (SVHC) because of their potential negative impacts on human health or the environment. From 1 June 2011, the European Chemicals Agency must be notified of the presence of SVHCs in articles if the total quantity used is more than one tonne per year and the SVHC is present at more than 0.1% of the mass of the object. Some uses of SVHCs may be subject to prior authorisation from the European Chemicals Agency, and applicants for authorisation will have to include plans to replace the use of the SVHC with a safer alternative (or, if no safer alternative exists, the applicant must work to find one) - known as \"substitution\". , there are 168 SVHCs on the candidate list for authorization.\n\nREACH applies to all chemicals imported or produced in the EU. The European Chemicals Agency will manage the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of the REACH system.\n\nTo somewhat simplify the registration of the 143,000 substances and to limit vertebrate animal testing as far as possible, substance information exchange forums (SIEFs) are formed amongst legal entities (such as manufacturers, importers, and data holders) who are dealing with the same substance. This allows them to join forces and finances to create 1 registration dossier. However, this creates a series of new problems as a SIEF is the cooperation between sometimes a thousand legal entities that did not know each other at all before but suddenly must:\nin order to complete a several thousand end points dossier in a limited time.\n\nThe European Commission supports businesses affected by REACH by handing out – free of charge – a software application (IUCLID) that simplifies capturing, managing, and submitting data on chemical properties and effects. Such submission is a mandatory part of the registration process. Under certain circumstances the performance of a chemical safety assessment (CSA) is mandatory and a chemical safety report (CSR) assuring the safe use of the substance has to be submitted with the dossier. Dossier submission is done using the web-based software REACH-IT.\n\nThe aim of REACH is to improve the protection of human health and the environment by identification of the intrinsic properties of chemical substances. At the same time, innovative capability and competitiveness of the EU chemicals industry should be enhanced.\n\nThe European Commission’s (EC) White Paper of 2001 on a ‘future chemical strategy’ proposed a system that requires chemicals manufactured in quantities of greater than 1 tonne to be ‘registered’, those manufactured in quantities greater than 100 tonnes to be ‘evaluated’, and certain substances of high concern (for example carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to reproduction - CMR’s) to be ‘authorised’.\n\nThe EC adopted its proposal for a new scheme to manage the manufacture, importation and supply of chemicals in Europe on in October 2003. This proposal eventually became law once the European Parliament officially approved its final text of REACH. It came into force on 1 June 2007.\n\nOne of the major elements of the REACH regulation is the requirement to communicate information on chemicals up and down the supply chain. This ensures that manufacturers, importers, and also their customers are aware of information relating to health and safety of the products supplied. For many retailers the obligation to provide information about substances in their products within 45 days of receipt of a request from a consumer is particularly challenging. Having detailed information on the substances present in their products will allow retailers to work with the manufacturing base to substitute or remove potentially harmful substances from products. The list of harmful substances is continuously growing and requires organizations to constantly monitor any announcements and additions to the REACH scope. This can be done on the European Chemicals Agency's website.\n\nA requirement is to collect, collate and submit data to the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) on the hazardous properties of all substances (except Polymers and non-isolated intermediates) manufactured or imported into the EU in quantities above 1 tonne per year. Certain substances of high concern, such as carcinogenic, mutagenic and reproductive toxic substances (CMRs) will have to be authorised.\n\nChemicals will be registered in three phases according to the tonnage of the substance evaluation:\n\nMore than 1000 tonnes a year, or substances of highest concern, must be registered in the first 3 years;\n\n100-1000 tonnes a year must be registered in the first 6 years;\n\n1-100 tonnes a year must be registered in the first 11 years.\n\nIn addition, industry should prepare risk assessments and provide controls measures for using the substance safely to downstream users.\n\nEvaluation provides a means for the authorities to require registrants, and in very limited cases downstream users, to provide further information.\n\nThere are two types of evaluation: dossier evaluation and substance :\n\nDossier evaluation is conducted by authorities to examine proposals for testing to ensure that unnecessary animal tests and costs are avoided, and to check the compliance of registration dossier with the registration requirements.\n\nThe relevant authorities perform substance evaluation when there is a reason to suspect that a substance presents a risk to human health or the environment (e.g. because of its structural similarity to another substance). Therefore, all registration dossiers submitted for a substance are examined together and any other available information is taken into account.\n\nThe REACH proposal sets up a system under which the use of substances with properties of very high concern and their placing on the market can be made subject to an authorisation requirement.\n\nThis authorisation requirement ensures that risks from the use of such substances are either adequately controlled or justified by socio-economic grounds, having taken into account the available information on alternative substances or processes.\n\nThe Regulation enables restrictions of use to be introduced across the European Community where this is shown to be necessary. Member States or the Commission may prepare such proposals.\n\nManufactures and/or importers should develop risk reduction measures for all known uses of the chemical including downstream uses. Downstream users such as plastic pipe producers should provide detail of their uses to their suppliers. In cases where downstream users decide not to disclose this information, they need to have their own CSR.\nREACH is the product of a wide-ranging overhaul of EU chemical policy. It passed the first reading in the European Parliament on 17 November 2005, and the Council of Ministers reached a political agreement for a common position on 13 December 2005. The European Parliament approved REACH on 13 December 2006 and the Council of Ministers formally adopted it on 18 December 2006. Weighing up expenditure versus profit has always been a significant issue, with the estimated cost of compliance being around €5 billion over 11 years, and the assumed health benefits of saved billions of euro in healthcare costs. However, there have been different studies on the estimated cost which vary considerably in the outcome. It came into force on 20 January 2009, and will be fully implemented by 2015.\n\nA separate regulation – the CLP Regulation (for \"Classification, Labelling, Packaging\") – implements the United Nations Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) and will steadily replace the previous Dangerous Substances Directive and Dangerous Preparations Directive.\n\nThe REACH regulation was amended in April 2018 to include specific information requirements for nanomaterials.\n\nThe legislation was proposed under dual reasoning: protection of human health and protection of the environment.\n\nUsing potentially toxic substances (such as phthalates or brominated flame retardants) is deemed undesirable and REACH will force the use of certain substances to be phased out. Using potentially toxic substances in products other than those ingested by humans (such as electronic devices) may seem to be safe, but there are several ways in which chemicals can enter the human body and the environment. Substances can leave particles during consumer use, for example into the air where they can be inhaled or ingested. Even where they might not do direct harm to humans, they can contaminate the air or water, and can enter the food chain through plants, fish or other animals. According to the European Commission, little safety information exists for 99 percent of the tens of thousands of chemicals placed on the market before 1981. There were 100,106 chemicals in use in the EU in 1981, when the last survey was performed. Of these only 3,000 have been tested and over 800 are known to be carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction. These are listed in the Annex 1 of the Dangerous Substances Directive (now Annex VI of the CLP Regulation).\n\nContinued use of many toxic chemicals is sometimes justified because \"at very low levels they are not a concern to health\". However, many of these substances may bioaccumulate in the human body, thus reaching dangerous concentrations. They may also chemically react with one another, producing new substances with new risks.\n\nA number of countries outside of the European Union have started to implement REACH-regulations or are in the process of adopting such a regulatory framework to approach a more globalized system of chemicals registration under the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS).\nBalkan countries such as Croatia and Serbia are in the process of adopting the EU REACH system under the auspices of the EU IPA programme. Switzerland has moved towards implementation of REACH through partial revision of the Swiss Chemical Ordinance on February 1, 2009. The new Chemicals Management Regulation in Turkey is paving the way for the planned adoption of REACH in 2013. China has moved towards a more efficient and coherent system for the control of chemicals in compliance with GHS.\n\nApart from the potential costs to industry and the complexity of the new law, REACH has also attracted concern because of animal testing. Animal tests on vertebrates are now required but allowed only once per each new substance and if suitable alternatives cannot be used. If a company pays for such tests, it must sell the rights of the results for a \"reasonable\" price, which is not defined. There are additional concerns that access to the necessary information may prove very costly for potential registrants needing to purchase it.\n\nAn opinion in \"Nature\" in 2009 by Thomas Hartung and Constanza Rovida estimated that 54 million vertebrate animals would be used under REACH and that the costs would amount to €9.5 billion. Hartung is the former head of European Centre for the Validation of Alternative Methods (ECVAM). In a news release, ECHA criticised assumptions made by Hartung and Rovida; ECHA's alternative assumptions reduced sixfold the number of animals.\n\nOn 8 June 2006, the REACH proposal was criticized by non-EU countries, including the United States, India and Brazil, which stated that the bill would hamper global trade.\n\nNon-EU consultancies offer \"only representative\" services, though according to REACH it is not possible to register a substance if your \"only representative\" consultancy company is not based in the EU, unless it is subcontracted to an EU-based registrant.\n\nOnly representatives are EU based entities that must comply with REACH (Article 8) and should operate standard, transparent working practices. The Only Representative assumes responsibility and liability for fulfilling obligiations of importers in accordance with REACH for substances being brought into the EU by a non-EU manufacturer.\n\nThe SIEFs will bring new challenges. An article in the business news service Chemical Watch described how some \"pre-registrants\" may simply be consultants hoping for work (\"gold diggers\") while others may be aiming to charge exorbitant rates for the data they have to offer (\"jackals\").\n\nSource:\n\nThe European Chemical Agency (ECHA) has published the REACH Authorisation List, in an effort to tighten the use of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHCs). The list is an official recommendation from the ECHA to the European Commission. The list is also regularly updated and expanded. Currently the Candidate List for Authorisation comprises a total of 173 SVHCs, some of which are already active on the Authorization List.\n\nTo sell or use these substances, manufacturers, importers, and retailers in the European Union (EU) must apply for authorization from the ECHA. The applicant is to submit a chemical safety report on the risks entailed by the substance, as well as an analysis of possible alternative substances or technologies including present and future research and development processed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28095449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28095449", "title": "Sphaerotheriida", "text": "Sphaerotheriida\n\nSphaerotheriida (from the Latin ' = ball) is an order of millipedes in the infraclass Pentazonia, sometimes known as giant pill millipedes. They inhabit Southern Africa, Madagascar, South and Southeast Asia, Australia and New Zealand. Like the Northern Hemisphere pill millipedes of the order Glomerida, these millipedes can roll into a ball when disturbed. When they are rolled-up, most sphaerotheriidans reach a maximum size of a cherry or golf ball, but some species from Madagascar can even reach the size of an orange (an example of island gigantism). When rolled-up, predators are unable to unravel giant pill millipedes since the margins of their second and last dorsal plates fit perfectly into one another, creating a sealed ball. A few giant pill millipede species are able to produce sound, the only millipedes known to do this. This order of millipedes is also unique in that some African species are used for medicinal purposes.\n\nSphaerotheriidans are characterized by a relatively conservative body morphology; superficially all species and genera look the same. Dorsally, their head is followed by twelve body tergites (collum, thoracic shield, and ten normal tergites) and the anal shield. Ventrally, females possess twenty-one leg pairs (forty-two legs in total), while males carry two additional modified leg pairs, the anterior and posterior telopods under their anal shield. The telopods resemble chelae and/or clamp-like structures, which are probably used in holding the female during mating. In the position of the male telopods, the females instead have a sclerotized subanal plate, which in some species such as those belonging to the family Arthrosphaeridae, is enlarged and is used to produce vibrations (stridulation). Furthermore, unlike other large-bodied millipede orders, Sphaerotheriida do not have glands that excrete poisonous or ill-smelling substances. Instead they depend entirely on their rolling-up behavior for protection.\n\nSphaerotheriida somewhat resemble the North American and Eurasian pill millipedes of the order Glomerida, but are generally larger in size ( body length). Until the end of the 20th century only the largest known species in the order Glomerida rivalled the size of even the smallest known Sphaerotheriida, but in the early 21st century a much smaller Sphaerotheriid was described from Madagascar: full-grown specimens of \"Microsphaerotherium ivohibiensis\" are just the size of a pea. \nAlso on Madagascar, some giant pill millipede species exhibit island gigantism, reaching more than in outstretched length and a size comparable to an orange when rolled up.\n\nThe orders differ in the number of tergites (10 or 11 in Glomerida, 12 in Sphaerotheriida) and legs (17 or 19 in Glomerida, 21 or 23 in Sphaerotheriida), and show great differences in their head morphology and genital openings, among other traits.\n\nBoth orders have the ability to roll into a perfect ball, protecting the head, antennae, and the vulnerable underside. However, this rolled-up position (volvation) is achieved differently. In Glomerida, the enlarged second body ring (thoracic shield) has a more or less visible gap within which fit the tips of tergites 3–11, whereas in Sphaerotheriida the tips of tergites 3–12 fit perfectly into a groove on the thoracic shield. Juvenile sphaerotheriidans show the same gap as the Glomerida. Many giant pill millipede species have special ledges ('locking carinae') on the underside of the tergite tips and the anal shield which can be moved above a brim on the thoracic shield. These millipedes remain passively locked-up since they need not continued muscle contraction to remain in the rolled-up position.\n\nIn general, Sphaerotheriida have a Gondwanan distribution (the exception is Zephroniidae from southeast Asia and adjacent regions). Gondwana was the large southern continent that formed after the breakup of the supercontinent Pangaea. It included the modern-day landmasses of South America (which however lacks sphaerotheriidans), New Zealand, Australia, India, and Madagascar. It is believed that the Sphaerotheriida originated in Gondwana and then diverged into its various forms.\n\nSphaerotheriida is divided into four families whose distributions do not overlap: Procyliosomatidae, Zephroniidae, Sphaerotheriidae and Arthrosphaeridae. The most basal family, Procyliosomatidae, lives in Australia and New Zealand. The Zephroniidae (synonym Sphaeropoeidae) occurs in southeast Asia from the Himalayas and China south and east to Sulawesi and inhabits some Philippines islands. The family Sphaerotheriidae only occurs in South Africa with isolated populations in Zimbabwe and Malawi (probably introduced). The Arthrosphaeridae are distributed in southern India and Madagascar.\n\nA few giant pill millipede species have been dispersed by humans, probably inadvertently. Examples include the Sri Lankan Arthrosphaeridae species \"Arthrosphaera brandtii\" which has established a population in the Usambara Mountains, Tanzania, as well as some South African \"Sphaerotherium\" species which have isolated populations in Malawi. Another likely candidate is \"Sechelliosoma forcipatum\", a small species of the southeast Asian family Zephroniidae, currently only known from a single island in the Seychelles.\n\nLittle is known about the ecology, development and life history of Sphaerotheriida, but apparently all species are detritivores, feeding on dead organic matter such as leaves and wood on the forest floor. Like earthworms, they play an important role in decomposition; by breaking down decaying organic matter they release locked up nutrients back into the soil. Such recycling is essential for plant nutrition and accordingly for the entire ecology. It is possible that giant pill millipedes rely on special bacteria in their gut, much as termites do, to exploit the nutritional value of otherwise indigestible material such as lignin.\n\nLike most millipedes, Sphaerotheriida inhabit mainly the leaf litter of humid forests. Some species, however, show an arboreal (tree-living) lifestyle, and in these the rolling-up reflex has been suppressed.\n\nThe rolling-up ability and tough skeletal armor of the Sphaerotheriida offer protection against some predators, but a wide variety of predators feed on them, or even specialise in them as a source of food. Species that specialize in feeding on giant pill millipedes necessarily have evolved special structures or behaviors to overcome their defences. Examples include the South African snail family Chlamydephoridae which almost exclusively feeds on giant pill millipedes Another example is the meerkat (\"Suricata suricata\") which has been reported (at least in captivity) to throw rolled-up sphaerotheriids against rocks in order to break them. This behaviour however, is their way of breaking open many refractory food items, such as snails and hard-shelled eggs.\n\nApart from the rolling-up behavior of giant pill millipedes, camouflage may be an important defense mechanism against predators that hunt by sight, such as birds.\n\nSphaerotheriida also are subject to internal parasitism, and several species of nematodes are obligate parasites of particular species of giant pill millipedes.\n\nBy 2014, over 326 species in around 34 genera in approximately 20 genera had been described.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe first modern phylogenetic study of Sphaerotheriida (simplified below) was conducted by Wesener and VandenSpiegel in 2009, using morphological data from 36 species in 10 genera. The South African family Sphaerotheriidae was found to be sister to the Madagascar family Arthrosphaeridae. The Australian genus \"Procyliosoma\" was found to be distinct from all other genera and placed in its own family, Procyliosomatidae.\n"}
{"id": "18716487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18716487", "title": "The Collector of Bedford Street", "text": "The Collector of Bedford Street\n\nThe Collector of Bedford Street is a 2002 documentary film about director Alice Elliott's neighbor, Larry Selman, a community activist and fundraiser who had an intellectual disability.\n\nWhen Larry's primary caregiver becomes unable to care for him, his New York City neighborhood community rallies together to protect his independent lifestyle by establishing an adult trust fund in his behalf. \n\nLarry is the beneficiary of an Adult Supplemental Needs Trust, which was sponsored by the Bedford-Barrow-Commerce (BBC) Block Association through the UJA-Federation Community Trust for Disabled Adults. The BBC's sponsorship of Larry marked the first time a group outside of a beneficiary's family established an Adult Supplemental Needs Trust.\n\n\"The Collector of Bedford Street\" DVD is being used by Kiwanis International for training Key Leaders in service around the world. \n\n\"The Collector of Bedford Street\" has screened at more than 70 film festivals around the world, including the Black Maria Film Festival, Aspen Short Film festival and Heartland Festival. The film was nominated for the 2002 Academy Award for Best Documentary (Short Subject).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33631921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33631921", "title": "The Politics of Experience and The Bird of Paradise", "text": "The Politics of Experience and The Bird of Paradise\n\nThe Politics of Experience and The Bird of Paradise is a 1967 book by Scottish psychiatrist R.D. Laing, comprising two parts - the first a collection of seven articles previously published between 1962 and 1965; the second a free-flowing quasi-autobiographical piece of poetry and prose.\n\nThe work was inspired in part by Laing’s extensive experimentation with LSD; but also owes a debt (among others) to Gregory Bateson and Jean-Paul Sartre.\n\nLaing examines the nature of human experience from a phenomenological point of view, as well as the possibilities for psychotherapy in an existentially distorted world. He challenges the idea of normality in modern society, and argues that it is not merely people who are mad, but the world as well. He presents psychosis as \"a psychedelic voyage of discovery in which the boundaries of perception were widened, and consciousness expanded\".\n\nWhile accepting in principle that “There is no need to idealize someone just because he is labelled 'out of formation'” (or mad), Laing tended to confirm a view of the mad as explorers of the inner world.\n\n\"The Politics of Experience\" is Laing's best-known book, its literary influence being especially apparent in Doris Lessing's novel, \"Briefing for a Descent into Hell\" (1971).\n"}
{"id": "55514377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55514377", "title": "The Rockefeller Foundation Economic Council on Planetary Health", "text": "The Rockefeller Foundation Economic Council on Planetary Health\n\nThe Rockefeller Foundation Economic Council on Planetary Health at the Oxford Martin School was established on 1 June 2017 to further define the new discipline of planetary health. Its mandate is to explore the economic link between human health and the earth’s natural systems on which health depends. By the end of 2019, it must recommend actionable public policy on this link.\n\nThe Council, made up of world leaders from government, international organizations, civil society, business, finance and academia, will meet several times throughout the 18 months of its mandate to develop specific recommendations and a decision-making framework that balances economic development with ecosystem protection, while promoting human health and well-being.\n\nThe Council is hosted at the Oxford Martin School at the University of Oxford.\n\nThe Rockefeller Foundation is a private foundation, with a stated mission of \"promoting the well-being of humanity throughout the world.\" The Oxford Martin School is a research and policy unit based in the Social Sciences Division of the University of Oxford. Together, they have joined forces to build the new and emerging field of planetary health. Planetary health examines \"the relationship between human health and the natural systems on which it depends.\"\n\nThe scientific case for a planetary health approach was established in a July 2015 report in The Lancet, “Safeguarding human health in the Anthropocene epoch,” wherein the Rockefeller Foundation-Lancet Commission on planetary health detailed the ways in which the degradation of natural systems harms the health of individuals, families and communities around the world. The report made several recommendations for how to do this, including having integrated social, economic and environmental policies, and better governance.\n\nThe role of the Economic Council on Planetary Health will be to provide advice and recommendations for how to reach these goals. The Council will meet several times a year to explore the economic link between human health and environmental change; increase existing scientific planetary health evidence by providing leaders and policy-makers with economic data for protecting human health through the preservation of the earth’s natural systems; and recommend the necessary economic policy reforms.\n\nBy the end of 2019, the Council is expected to produce a report that will recommend actionable public policy for governments and institutions on advancing planetary health.\n\nThe Rockefeller Foundation will provide $15 million toward establishing the pillars of a new planetary health discipline. Other organizations are also contributing to the emerging field, including the Planetary Health Alliance (PHA).\n\nThe Chair of The Rockefeller Foundation Economic Council on Planetary Health is Ernesto Zedillo, former president of Mexico and current Director of the Yale Center for the Study of Globalization.\n\nOther members include:\nThe Council Members are supported by an international Secretariat consisting of:\n\n"}
{"id": "24615207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24615207", "title": "Topeka State Hospital", "text": "Topeka State Hospital\n\nThe Topeka State Hospital (formerly the Topeka Insane Asylum) was a publicly funded institution for the care and treatment of the mentally ill in Topeka, Kansas, in operation from 1872 to 1997. Located at 2700 W 6th Street, the hospital opened in 1879, after the Osawatomie State Hospital, once thought to be sufficient, became overcrowded with mentally-ill patients.\n\nThe first buildings in both Topeka and Osawatomie were designed by John G. Haskell who was among the architects of the Kansas State Capitol, and the hospital was designed in according to the Kirkbride Plan.\n\nAs of 2010, the majority of the hospital had been demolished, and in June of that year, the center building was also demolished. Hummer Sports Park now occupies its space.\n\nIn the early 1900s, there were rumors of patients being abused, neglected, or raped. Patients were often left confined or chained for long periods of time. In the 1940s, reforms at the hospital changed conditions for the better. The hospital received further criticism for treatment of patients when, in 1951, it was discovered that patient John Crabb, a fifty-nine-year-old immigrant from Denmark, was in fact not clinically insane, and had been wrongfully incarcerated at the hospital.\n\nIn 1913, the Kansas legislature passed the first sterilization law in the state. Many felt that the law was problematic, and thus its enforcement was less than stellar. In an attempt to make the process of the law easier, a second law was passed in 1917, which eliminated some of the work for the institutions. The 1913 law was directed at “habitual criminals, idiots, epileptics, imbeciles, and insane”. The 1917 law targeted the same groups, but eliminated the courts’ approval from the decision.\n\nAfter the passage of the sterilization law in 1913, 54 sterilizations occurred over the next seven years. Because there was still a great deal of doubt and uncertainty regarding the laws, sterilizations occurred at a relatively slow rate up until 1921. However, with the passage of new laws and a new widespread acceptance, sterilizations began to increase rapidly until 1950. The rate of sterilization decreased steadily until 1961, when they ceased altogether. The rate of sterilizations per 100,000 residents per year during the peak period of sterilizations, in the mid 1930s, was about 10. At least early on, most of Kansas' forced sterilizations took place in the State Hospital in Topeka.\n\nStephanie Uhlrig worked as a music and activity therapist in the general hospital population. One of the patients at Topeka State Hospital was Kenneth D. Waddell, who had been placed in the custody of state mental health authorities after having been found not guilty by reason of insanity for the charge of aggravated battery. Waddell was initially placed in the Larned State Security Hospital, but on April 1, 1987, he was transferred to the Topeka State Hospital where he was placed in the Adult Forensic Ward (referred to as the \"AWL unit\"), which was a special unit secluded from the other units because it contained higher risk patients. This unit was closed due to budgetary constraints, and Waddell was eventually moved into the general population.\n\nOn February 23, 1992, Uhlrig and another therapist took Waddell and other patients off grounds to watch a movie. Upon returning to the hospital and dropping off the other patients, Waddell attacked and killed Uhlrig, and her body was found in the bathroom in one of the buildings on the grounds. \n\nThe United States Court of Appeals, Tenth Circuit, decided on Aug. 30, 1995 that \"While Uhlrig's murder was undeniably tragic, it was not the result of reckless and \"conscience shocking\" conduct by the state mental health administrators sued in the instant case,\" thus affirming the district court's grant of Defendants' motion for summary judgment.\n\nIn 2001, Cynthia Turnbull, a psychologist at the Topeka State Hospital, sued her employer and the state for sexual harassment after she was sexually assaulted by a patient. The jury found a sexually hostile work environment existed at TSH, but it split over whether TSH should be held legally responsible for that environment. After learning of the jury's inability to decide, the district court granted an earlier defense motion for judgment as a matter of law. The sole issue on appeal was whether that ruling was proper. They held that it was not, and remanded the case for further proceedings.\n\nIn 1988, the hospital lost its accreditation to receive federal Medicare and Medicaid payments. The Health Care Financing Administration determined that the State had omitted two patients from its inspection of care review at the hospital, which appealed and lost. \n\nBy the 1990s, the mental health movement was away from the hospital model and toward community-based programs. Partly because the community-based model appeared effective but mostly because it was cheaper, the Kansas Legislature decided to close one of its three mental hospitals. TSH was chosen for closing and went out of business May 17, 1997.\n\nThe historic center building and several others were demolished in June 2010.\n\nThe cemetery occupies a 2.8-acre plot on the northeast corner of the old Topeka State Hospital grounds; it contains the bodies of patients buried there over a 75-year period. The cemetery, which measures about 150 yards by 50 yards and is about 100 yards west of the 100 block of N.W. MacVicar, was assigned to the Kansas Department of Administration after the hospital closed. \nOf the 1,157 graves there, only 16 have headstones. The 2000 Kansas Legislature authorized construction of a memorial for people buried in the cemetery, including a plaque identifying the memorial, fencing to go around the cemetery and the inscription of the names of the dead.\n\n"}
{"id": "11438176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11438176", "title": "Transitional care", "text": "Transitional care\n\nTransitional care refers to the coordination and continuity of health care during a movement from one healthcare setting to either another or to home, called care transition, between health care practitioners and settings as their condition and care needs change during the course of a chronic or acute illness. Older adults who suffer from a variety of health conditions often need health care services in different settings to meet their many needs. For young people the focus is on moving successfully from child to adult health services. \n\nA recent position statement from the American Geriatrics Society defines transitional care as follows: For the purpose of this position statement, transitional care is defined as a set of actions designed to ensure the coordination and continuity of health care as patients transfer between different locations or different levels of care within the same location. Representative locations include (but are not limited to) hospitals, sub-acute and post-acute nursing homes, the patient’s home, primary and specialty care offices, and long-term care facilities. Transitional care is based on a comprehensive plan of care and the availability of health care practitioners who are well-trained in chronic care and have current information about the patient’s goals, preferences, and clinical status. It includes logistical arrangements, education of the patient and family, and coordination among the health professionals involved in the transition. Transitional care, which encompasses both the sending and the receiving aspects of the transfer, is essential for persons with complex care needs.\n\nDuring transitions, patients with complex medical needs, primarily older patients, are at risk for poorer outcomes due to medication errors and other errors of communication among the involved healthcare providers and between providers and patients/family caregivers. Most research in the area of transitional care has studied the transition from hospitalization to the next provider setting – often a sub-acute nursing facility, a rehabilitation facility, or home either with or without professional homecare services. Adverse patient outcomes include continuation or recurrence of symptoms, temporary or permanent disability and death. Healthcare utilization outcomes for patients experiencing poor transitional care include returning to the emergency room or being readmitted to the hospital. As healthcare expenditures rise at an unsustainable rate there is increasing focus by patients, providers and policymakers on restraining unnecessary resource utilization such as that incurred by preventable re-hospitalizations.\n\nTransitional care or transition care also refers to the transition of young people with chronic conditions to adult based services. Transition care is a Youth Health service. As children mature into young adults, they outgrow the expertise of children’s services (paediatrics) and need to find an adult health service that suits them. A program in Australia GMCT Transition Care is an initiative aimed at improving continuity of care for young people with chronic health as they move from children's (paediatric) to adult health services.\n\nContinuity of health care (also called \"continuum of care\") is to what degree the care is coherent and linked, in turn depending on the quality of information flow, interpersonal skills, and coordination of care. Continuity of health care means different things to different types of caregivers, and can be of several types:\nTo avoid misinterpretation, the type of continuity should be agreed to before any related discussions or planning begin. \"Seamless care\" refers to an optimal situation where there is continuity in the healthcare even in the presence of many transitions.\n\nAnalysis of medical errors usually reveals the presence of many gaps in health continuity, yet only rarely do gaps produce accidents. Patient safety is increased by understanding and reinforcing health care providers' normal ability to bridge gaps.\n\nThe only currently nationally endorsed measure of transitional care quality is the Care Transitions Measure (CTM), which is a 15-item survey for administration to patients after discharge from the hospital. The measure also exists as a 3-item survey. Patient responses to the survey predicts return to the emergency department and/or hospital. Dr. Eric Coleman and his team at the University of Colorado at Denver and Health Sciences Center developed the CTM, as well as an intervention designed to improve patient outcomes during transitions.\n\nAfter leaving a particular care setting, older patients may not understand how to manage their health care conditions or whom to call if they have a question or if their condition gets worse. Poorly managed transitions can lead to physical and emotional stress for both patients and their caregivers. During a transition, the patients' preferences or personal goals in one setting may not be passed on to the next setting. This may result in important elements of the care plan \"falling through the cracks\".\n\nIdeally, every patient's primary physician would be responsible for the patient through every health care process at all times, but this has been regarded as practically impossible, and, in reality, more effort must rather be put into making transitions more effective.\n\nThe Care Transitions Intervention (CTI) is a coaching intervention to assist patients in resuming self-care following a change in health status. It uses coaching techniques to ensure that patients are comfortable in managing their own medications and their own health information, understand the signs and symptoms that should lead them to contact a healthcare provider, and have assertion skills to ask important questions of providers. Although the coaching intervention occurs for the first 30 days following the transition, this approach has been shown to significantly reduce hospital readmission as far out as six months.\n\nIn 2002, the University of Colorado Denver implemented a program called Care Transitions Intervention®. As part of the program, a Transitions Coach works directly with patients and family members for 30 days after discharge to help them understand and manage their complex postdischarge needs, ensuring continuity of care across settings. Participants in the program have a 20 to 40 percent lower hospital readmission rate at 30, 90, and 180 days postdischarge.\n\n\"Turfing\" is where a healthcare provider transfers a patient they could have taken care of to another provider in order to reduce their own patient load. According to one study in the US, nine percent of physicians admitted that they had transferred a patient in such manner.\n\n"}
{"id": "19805611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19805611", "title": "Virtual rehabilitation", "text": "Virtual rehabilitation\n\nVirtual rehabilitation is a concept in psychology in which a therapeutic patient's training is based entirely on, or is augmented by, virtual reality simulation exercises. If there is no conventional therapy provided, the rehabilitation is said to be \"virtual reality-based.\" Otherwise, if virtual rehabilitation is in addition to conventional therapy, the intervention is \"virtual reality-augmented.\" Today, a majority of the population uses the virtual environment to navigate their daily lives and almost one fourth of the world population uses the internet. As a result, virtual rehabilitation and gaming rehabilitation, or rehabilitation through gaming consoles, have become quite common. In fact, virtual therapy has been used over regular therapeutic methods in order to treat a number of disorders. \n\nThe term Virtual Rehabilitation was coined in 2002 by Professor Daniel Thalmann of EPFL (Switzerland) and Professor Grigore Burdea of Rutgers University (USA). In their view the term applies to both physical therapy and cognitive interventions (such as for patients suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, phobias, anxieties, attention deficits or amnesia). Since 2008, the virtual rehabilitation \"community\" has been supported by the International Society on Virtual Rehabilitation \n\nVirtual rehabilitation offers a number of advantages compared to conventional therapeutic methods:\nFactors to consider:\n\nFenichel, M. (2010). Next stop: virtual psychology and therapy. Current Topics in Psychology. <http://www.fenichel.com/virtual.shtml>."}
{"id": "11923899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11923899", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in China", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in China\n\nWater supply and sanitation in China is undergoing a massive transition while facing numerous challenges such as rapid urbanization, increasing economic inequality, and the supply of water to rural areas. Water scarcity and pollution also impact access to water.\n\nProgress has been made in the past decades, with increased access to services, increased municipal wastewater treatment, the creation of water and wastewater utilities that are legally and financially separated from local governments, and increasing cost recovery as part of the transformation of the Chinese economy to a more market-oriented system. The government quadrupled investments in the sector during the Eleventh Five-Year Plan (2006–10).\n\nNevertheless, much remains to be achieved. According to survey data analyzed by the Joint Monitoring Program for Water and Sanitation of WHO and UNICEF, about 100 million Chinese still did not have access to an improved water source in 2008, and about 460 million did not have access to improved sanitation. Progress in rural areas appears to lag behind what has been achieved in urban areas. According to data presented by the Joint Monitoring Program for Water Supply and Sanitation of WHO and UNICEF in 2015, about 36% of the rural population in China still did not have access to improved sanitation.\n\nAccess to water supply and sanitation has increased significantly in China over the past two decades in parallel with economic growth. The number of people lacking access to \"at least basic\" water in 2015 was 63 million. The term \"at least basic water\" is a new term since 2016, and is related to the previously used \"improved water source\".\n\nRegarding sanitation, progress has been slower and there are still 329 million people without access to \"at least basic sanitation\", in 2015. Between 1990 and 2008 alone more than 450 million Chinese gained access to an improved water source, based on estimates by the Joint Monitoring Program for Water Supply and Sanitation of the WHO and UNICEF that are based on household survey data.\n\nIn earlier years, access to an improved water source was 89% and access to improved sanitation was 55% in 2008. Having access to an improved water source, however, is not the same as having access to safe water. Many of those who have access to adequate infrastructure suffer from poor water quality due to fecal contamination; high levels of naturally occurring fluoride, arsenic, or salts; and growing industrial and agricultural chemical pollution. Furthermore, seasonal water shortages occur.\n\nAs in many other developing countries, there is a significant gap between urban and rural areas. For example, in 2010, in urban areas of China 95% had access to piped water supply, while the share in rural areas was only 45%.\n\nThe magazine \"The Economist\" described the urban-rural gap in the following stark terms: \"The reforms that Deng Xiaoping first launched in China's countryside 30 years ago have now left its peasants in the ditch.\" It also observed that \"the income disparity between China's richest few and poorest many would make many a modern capitalist blush.\" \n\nAccording to the World Bank about 13% of urban water users receive water at inadequate pressure. Furthermore, 60% of China's 661 cities face seasonal water shortage, and over 100 cities have severe water constraints. Contamination of drinking water from feces is a critical health problem in China, as in other developing countries, that causes serious illnesses such as diarrhea and viral hepatitis. A recent survey by UNICEF in 11 provinces found that over half of all drinking water samples contained unacceptably high levels of bacteria. Currently, China is facing a shortage of water due to climate and rapid development. in 2013, China \"for the first time issued water quotas to every province, setting targets for annual consumption by 2015\".\n\nIt has been estimated that in 2006 there was sufficient capacity to treat 52% of municipal residential wastewater. By June 2010, there were 1,519 municipal wastewater treatment plants in China and 18 plants were added each week. Many existing plants are being expanded and upgraded to include a tertiary treatment stage for nutrient removal to comply with more stringent discharge standards introduced in 2002. In terms of technologies, in 2007, the most commonly used technologies were various forms of activated sludge, including oxidation ditches (24% of all plants), sequencing batch reactors (11%), conventional activated sludge (5%) and membrane bioreactors. In small communities, plants using only primary treatment were still common (15% of all plants). An analysis in 2004 by the Ministry of Construction showed that, according to treatment plant records, most plants operated in compliance with discharge standards.\n\nMan-made pollution, natural contamination, and water scarcity all affect the provision of drinking water.\n\nHealth problems caused by the lack of safe water are exacerbated by poor sanitary conditions, especially in rural China. Traditionally, Chinese households collect human waste and transport it to the fields for use as fertilizer, often without further treatment. Latrines are common in rural areas. Some are rudimentary, being unprotected from flies and other disease vectors, while others are odorless and insect-free. Composting toilets that promise high rates of pathogen destruction are common. The availability of public and school latrines in rural areas that met sanitary standards was low in the late 1990s.\nThe government has made a concerted effort to promote good health-related behaviors. In most rural areas, a network of National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (NPHCC) workers, the All-China Women's Federation representatives, the Communist Youth League of China, local epidemic prevention stations, and schools have led health education campaigns encouraging a wide array of hygienic behaviors. That work, combined with a high literacy rate (even in poor areas), has led to widespread knowledge of many basic health behaviors, such as the importance of drinking boiled water. However, actual behavioral change has been slow to follow, especially in poor areas where fuel may be scarce and understanding of the link between raw water or unwashed hands and diarrhea is tenuous. Thus, the problem is more one of the effectiveness of health messages than of their dissemination: In the late 1990s, health education in most rural areas provided little concrete information to link hygienic behavior to improved health, and most provinces still lacked specialized health education training. As a result, significant disparities exist between poorer and wealthier rural counties, both among and within provinces in China. While a number of wealthier and middle-income rural counties have experienced tremendous health-related benefits as a result of improvements in water supply and sanitation, poorer counties with more limited resources have yet to receive similar benefits. In Minqin county, Inner Mongolia, \"10,000 people have left the area and have become \"shengtai yimin\", “ecological migrants\".\n\nResponsibility for water supply and sanitation policies at the national level is shared between five Ministries. Provincial governments play a relatively limited role in the water sector, providing some limited financing for rural water supply. Local government plays a major role, providing a substantial share of financing and owning water supply and sanitation companies that are the main service providers in urban areas. In smaller towns, local government sometimes provides services directly. Village committees operate water systems in rural areas.\n\nTo a large extent, the institutional structure of the sector has been inherited from the period of the planned economy before 1978. There are overlaps in responsibilities between public institutions at the central and local level, as well as between various Ministries. There are also no clear definitions of what terms like \"supervision\" and \"management\" that are mentioned in the legislation mean, so that \"often the departments in charge cannot tell the differences themselves\".\n\nThe national government does not have a single policy document for water supply and sanitation. The two major laws in the water sector relate to water resources management: the Water Law of 2002 and the Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law of 1984.\n\nThe legal framework for water supply and sanitation at the national level is constituted by secondary legislation, of which the 1994 regulation of urban water supply, the 1996 administrative measures for the sanitary supervision of drinking water and the 2006 sanitary standards for drinking water are among the most important ones. It is complemented by numerous local regulations and administrative measures.\n\nIt is the government’s policy to fully recover costs for water supply and sanitation through user fees, and that water tariffs should be volumetric. The Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (until 2008 the Ministry of Construction) oversees financing for \"urban\" water and sanitation infrastructure as well as policies concerning the regulation of water and sanitation utilities. Some important policy papers it has issued are “Accelerating the Marketization of Public Utilities” (No.272 Policy Paper of the MOC, 2002), the “Measure on Public Utilities Concession Management” (No.126 Policy Paper of the MOC, 2004), and the “Opinions on Strengthening Regulation of Public Utilities” (No.154 Policy Paper of the MOC, 2005). However, there is no law concerning the regulation of public utilities or private sector participation in the sector. The Ministry of Health has attributions related to the promotion of rural water supply and sanitation.\n\nThe responsibility for water resources management is split between a number of entities at the national and local level. At the national level\n\nNevertheless, the Ministry of Water Resources and its affiliated river basin commissions in all major river basins are key players in water resources management. The Water Law of 2002 emphasizes demand management and water quality protection and thus paves the way for a transition from a development phase focused almost exclusively on infrastructure development to a phase where more appropriate attention is being devoted to the management and protection of water resources.\n\nIn addition to water resources management, the Ministry of Water Resources is also in charge of the construction of some major water infrastructure such as dams, embankments, irrigation infrastructure, and bulk conveyors for municipal and industrial water supply. According to its website, it is also responsible for the “provision of recommendations on economic regulation of water pricing, taxation, credit and financial affairs” as well as “coordination of capital construction of (…) water supply for townships and villages”, although in practice these functions seem to be carried out by other entities.\n\nIn order to understand the institutional responsibilities for water supply and sanitation in China, it may be helpful to provide a brief overview of the administrative divisions of China:\n\n\nFor details: Administrative divisions of China\n\nChina also has 661 designated cities, which do not constitute separate administrative units. Each municipality, prefecture, and county includes urban and rural areas. 4 cities are capitals of municipalities, 283 cities are capitals of prefectures, and 374 are capitals of counties. In 2005, 340 million people, or about 25% of China's population, lived in designated cities, each of which had a population of at least 200,000. The remaining urban population of about 200 million, or about 15% of the total population, lives in smaller towns that are either among the smaller prefecture-level capitals (96 million) that are not formally designated as cities or in townships (100 million).\n\nIn an article on rural China, \"The Economist\" magazine wrote that many Chinese experts believe that basic infrastructure should be funded by provinces or the central government: \"That done, prefecture and township governments could be massively trimmed or eliminated altogether.\"\n\nOverview Urban water supply in China is the responsibility of \"cities\" under complex arrangements that differ substantially from one city to the other. The term \"City\" has a dual and confusing meaning in China. It is used here to refer to the main urban area of a municipality, prefecture, or county. Cities are governed by a \"leading group\" under the leadership of a mayor, who is assisted by various \"bureaus\", or departments. Services are usually provided by municipally owned water bureaus and wastewater bureaus (sometimes referred to as utilities despite the relatively limited autonomy that these companies enjoy). Water and wastewater bureaus are typically separate from each other. In larger cities, services are further unbundled: There may be a separate raw water bureau that transports water from far-away sources and sells it to the municipal water bureau for distribution. Likewise on the wastewater side, larger cities may have several district drainage bureaus in charge of parts of the city, a wastewater bureau in charge of the main collectors, and a third bureau in charge of wastewater treatment.\n\nIn some cities, the various companies are under the same \"parent bureau\", which may be the construction bureau or a water bureau, while in other cities the water bureau and the wastewater bureau report to different parent bureaus. Especially in smaller cities the county administration provides services directly.\n\nExamples In Shanghai, the Water Division of the Shanghai Urban Construction Investment Development Corporation provides services. The Water Division includes a raw water bureau, five water bureaus, one sewage management bureau, three engineering bureaus and two construction bureaus. It serves 12 million people. In Beijing, a Water parent bureau was established in 2004, integrating the functions of formerly separate bureaus for water supply, sewerage, wastewater treatment, and water resources management. In Tianjin, the Tianjin Water Supply Group provides services. It recently divested itself from numerous side businesses to focus on its core business. Since 1997, it has cooperated with international companies such as Vivendi in a bulk water supply Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) contract.\n\nPrivate sector participation in financing infrastructure and managing services is widespread. In 2007, there are over 50 water projects and well over 100 wastewater projects in China with private sector participation. The French firm Veolia alone has contracts that involve a total population of over 43 million inhabitants of whom over 27 million are served through full service concessions, among which the concession in Shenzhen is the largest. The company holds manages 22 municipal contracts and nine industrial contracts. the Israeli-Chinese Kardan Water International Group is also a major player in the Chinese water market. Notable Chinese companies engaged in the provision of water supply and sanitation services include the majority state-owned wastewater company Beijing Enterprises Water Group Ltd, China Water Affairs Group, Everbright International (now Everbright Water), and the Beijing-based engineering and construction company Sound Global Limited. An econometric study by Chinese economists on the impact of private sector participation on the performance of urban water supply in 35 major cities over the period 1998 to 2008 found that \" the participation of foreign companies, but not domestic private companies, significantly improves water industry performance\".\n\nShenzhen concession. According to a study by the Asian Development Bank, the city of Shenzhen is leading the reform of local water management in China. Inspired by the experience of the water utility in nearby Hong Kong, it was one of the first cities in the country that has combined all water-related government functions into one government agency in 2001. Furthermore, regulatory and operative functions were separated. In 2003, the first concession for municipal public utilities in China was bid out in Shenzhen. The 30-year concession was won by the French firm Veolia and its Chinese partner Capital Water. Together with the State Council Committee for the Regulation and Management of State owned property, which holds 55% of the shares of a newly created Joint Venture called Shenzhen Water, Veolia holds 25% and Capital Water 20% of the shares. The Joint Venture was approved at the national level by the Ministry of Commerce. In 2009, Shenzhen Water was the largest water supply and sanitation enterprise in the country. The wastewater treatment sector in Shenzhen has developed rapidly since the reform of 2001. The sewage treatment rate in the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone has increased from 56% during pre-integration to over 88% in 2008, ranking first among large and medium-sized cities in China. The Asian Development Bank called the Shenzhen case \"a model for market-oriented reform in the urban water sector\". In 2008 the Shenzhen Water Group had expanded and invested in 17 water projects in 7 provinces. The $40 million equity stake of Veolia is covered by a 15-year MIGA guarantee to protect against the risk of expropriation.\n\nBOT contracts. The most common form of private sector participation in water supply and sanitation in China is through Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) contracts where the private sector is in charge of large upstream or downstream infrastructure without being directly involved in serving users. Experience with BOT contracts has been mixed. For example, the local government of Lianjiang had the 100,000 m3/day Tangshan water treatment plant built by SUEZ under a BOT contract in 1999. However, the water demand had been grossly overestimated, so that the plant lay idle while the local government had to pay for substantial minimum volumes without using them, which evidently pushed up tariffs. After lengthy negotiations, the local government finally bought back the plant in 2009.\n\nIn rural areas, village committees which are community-based organizations, provide services. Its members operate the systems without remuneration. In terms of rural sanitation, human excreta are systematically used as manure for fertilising crops and vegetables. In many houses, the excreta of all family members are collected in buckets over the course of five to seven days, and then taken to the field and applied raw in the crops. The practice is an age old tradition and of enormous economic value in terms of agricultural production.\n\nThere is little information on activities by NGOs in water supply and sanitation in China. An Association for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation provides training, information exchange, technical assistance, and undertakes research. In terms of foreign NGOs, the NGO Plan, for example, works in China. It is known for having introduced for the first time the concept of Community Led Total Sanitation in China in Puchang County in Shaanxi in 2005.\n\nOver the past 20 years, China has engaged in what is possibly the largest program to build wastewater treatment plants in history. Despite the substantial achievements of this program, many challenges remain.\n\nAchievements Until the early 1980s, there was not a single municipal wastewater treatment plant in China. In that year, the country’s first municipal wastewater treatment plant was built in the city of Nanjing. Subsequently, China engaged in what is possibly the largest wastewater treatment investment program in history. It has been estimated that in 2006 there was sufficient capacity to treat 52% of municipal residential wastewater. According to the State Environmental Protection Agency the rate of urban wastewater treatment reached 57% in that year. The government's goal to achieve a level of 60% for treatment of municipal wastewater by 2010 was surpassed. By 2010, 77.5% of domestic waste water was treated. Between 2001 and 2004, the number of cities that charge wastewater tariffs has increased from 300 to 475 out of 661 cities. According to the Notice on the Construction Plan for the Nation's Urban Waste Water Treatment and Recycling Facilities presented in the 12th Five-Year Plan by the General Office of the State Council, which was promulgated on May 4, 2012, the waste water treatment rate in the PRC will further improve by 2015. By the end of 2015, the waste water treatment rate should increase to 100% for municipalities, provincial capital cities and cities specifically designated in the state plan, 85% for other cities, 70% for counties, and 30% for towns.\n\nRemaining challenges However, in the rush to construct planning mistakes were made. Demand was overestimated, the construction of sewerage lagged behind the construction of treatment plants, designs were sometimes inappropriate, there was no requirement for pre-treatment of industrial effluents thus affecting the effectiveness of treatment processes, and the sites chosen for the first priority investments within a river basin were not always those where the highest impact could have been achieved in terms of improving river water quality. As a result, many plants are underutilized or poorly functioning. According to the Ministry of Construction, more than 50 wastewater treatment plants in more than 30 cities operated at only 30 percent of their capacity or did not even come into operation. Consequently, the impact of the investment program on the water quality in rivers and coastal waters has been limited.\n\nDuring the 1990s, municipal and industrial water use actually declined because of low increases of connection rates to utilities because of underestimation of the importance of small-scale water providers, increased tariffs, increased metering, industrial restructuring, measures to increase the efficiency of water use in industries, as well as due to water scarcity and drought. Many Chinese water and wastewater companies have overcapacities and are in financial difficulties because the revenues are insufficient to cover the servicing of the debt contracted to build the oversized infrastructure.\n\nIn 2002, the Ministry of Construction issued a policy paper on the commercialization of public utilities. Subsequently, in October 2003, the central government decided that state-owned enterprises had to be separated from Ministries and/or provincial governments and had to be commercialized. Competitive bidding for contracts, private sector participation and commercial financing are important element in the transition to a market economy. In the 1990s, the first BOT contracts were signed for wastewater treatment plants. More than 200 wastewater treatment plants were built with some form of private sector participation in their financing and/or management, usually using the BOT formula. Early BOTs saw governments implementing the process without the benefit of financial, legal, and technical advisers, finding to their chagrin that the process becomes more complex in the absence of expert knowledge. Learning from the experience of past BOTs in the sector, local governments sought expert advice on bidding and public tender. In about 2000 for the first time, a BOT water project (Chengdu No. 6 Water Supply Plant) was awarded on the basis of transparent international competitive bidding, with support from the ADB. In 2004, a landmark international competitive bid for the entire water supply and sanitation system of Shenzhen was won by a joint venture including the French firm Veolia.\n\nThere are many different indicators for utility efficiency. In the case of China, some indicators, such as labor productivity, suggest a low level of operational efficiency, while other indicators - such as non-revenue water - suggest a high level of operational efficiency.\n\nLabor productivity Most water and sanitation utilities in China have a low labor productivity and are overstaffed. For example, many utilities in small towns in Henan province have more than 20 employees per 1,000 connections, while international good practice is less than 4 employees per 1,000 connections. In Chengdu, the utility employed 34 employees per 1,000 connections, while in Shanghai, the ratio was less than 6 employees per 1,000 connections.\n\nNon-revenue water Non-revenue water (NRW) - consisting mainly leakage losses in the distribution network - are estimated by the Chinese Waterworks Association to be only 20% on average and less than 10% for the best utilities, which is very low by international standards. The International Benchmarking Network for Water and Sanitation Utilities estimated the non-revenue water for a sample of Chinese water utilities at 27% in 2006 and 21% in 2001.\n\nOne explanation for the relatively low level of NRW may be that most Chinese live in dense apartment complexes, which results in compact distribution systems. In some smaller cities, non-revenue water remains relatively high. For example, average non revenue water in small towns in Henan province is 38%.\n\nCost recovery for water and sanitation services paradoxically is lower in urban areas, while it is higher in rural areas, despite the lower incomes of rural residents.\n\nOverview Many urban water and wastewater utilities in China experience financial stress, because user fees are set well below cost recovery levels and government subsidies are insufficient to cover the resulting gap. In 2004, 60% of urban water utilities reported negative net incomes. The financial situation of wastewater utilities is expected to be even more precarious. Tariffs have increased by 50% since 1998 and now stand at 1.5 RMB/m3 or US$0.20/m3. These rates are insufficient to cover costs.\n\nUntil the 1980s, urban water tariffs in China were very low and sewer tariffs were practically unknown. This has changed substantially since the adoption of National Guidelines on Urban Water Tariffs in 1988, which called for increased cost recovery and for the introduction of sewer tariffs. Subsequently, water tariffs have been increased substantially in many Chinese cities, particularly in the north where water is scarcest. However, according to the Ministry of Construction, water tariff reforms have not been effective enough to offer the necessary incentives to save water. While many cities now have sewer tariffs, in 2005, there were more than 150 cities across the country where no wastewater treatment fee was collected.\n\nChina has a policy of universal metering, including metering of individual households in apartment complexes, where most urban residents live. Metering in urban areas is now relatively widespread with an average of 90% connections being metered. Some cities are experimenting with pre-paid debit cards that residents must put into their meters in order to receive service.\n\nTariff structure are complex, with different tariffs for different categories of users and higher tariffs charged to industrial and commercial users than to residential users. Most water tariffs are linear, i.e. there is a single price per unit of water, although there are some increasing-block tariffs where the unit price increases with consumption. Urban tariffs are approved by Price Bureaus of cities, after considerable prior negotiation. Tariffs do not require approval from a higher level of government.\n\nExamples In Tianjin, where water tariffs had not been raised once between 1949 and 1985, they have been raised eight times until 2006. As a result, cost recovery has improved significantly. In Chengdu the average water tariff was US$0.14/m3 in 2001. Despite the relatively low water tariff the utility's revenues were twice as high as recurrent costs, allowing for a significant share of self-financing. In Shanghai, the average water tariff was only US$0.10/m3 in 2001. The utility did not even recover its recurrent cost and had an operating loss.\n\nIn rural areas, according to the World Bank users pay about 75% of investment costs and 100% of operation and maintenance costs. Rural tariffs do not need to be approved.\n\nInvestments in the sector have than tripled over the past years. According to the World Bank, in 1991–2005, a total of USD$54 billion was invested in urban water supply and sanitation, equivalent to only US$3.7 billion per year. During the 11th Five Year Plan in 2006–10, almost US$11 billion per year are expected to be invested in the sector, thus investing in five years as much as had been invested in the previous fifteen years. More than 60% of these investments are targeted at sanitation, reflecting the backlog in that sector. Figures for rural areas are not available.\n\nUrban areas The World Bank estimates that urban water and wastewater infrastructure in China has been financed from the following sources in 1991–2005:\n\nSource: World Bank:Stepping up - Improving the performance of China's urban water utilities, by Greg Browder et al., 2007, p. 108\n\nMunicipal governments provide their financing in the form of equity that typically is not remunerated. The other forms of financing require a remuneration either in the form of interests on loans or profits on private equity. It should be noted that local governments in China are not allowed to borrow directly. Municipally owned utility companies, however, are allowed to borrow from the China Development Bank, other Chinese banks, the state bond program and international financial institutions. The State bond program is geared at less economically developed regions. The bonds are issued by the Ministry of Finance, and then distributed by the National Development and Reform Commission as long maturity, low-interest loans, which in some cases may be converted to grants. The major international financial institutions engaged in the sector are the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, complemented by bilateral donors such as the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the German KfW.\n\nImplicitly, according to this estimate, the level of self-financing by water and wastewater utilities is zero. Nevertheless, there clearly will be an upward pressure on tariffs, since 70-80% of water infrastructure and 50-60% of wastewater infrastructure is financed either through debt or private equity that requires a remuneration. The remainder is financed through municipal equity, which typically requires no remuneration and thus helps to keep tariffs low.\n\nAnother mechanism to use debt finance are BOTs which are a popular financing mechanism for water and wastewater treatment plants and bulk water supply systems in China. Under BOTs, private entities undertake investments and recover their costs through fees for bulk water sale or wastewater treatment charged to the utilities. While the local government or utilities are formally not indebted through a BOT, the charges for the services are de facto similar to debt service charges.\n\nRural areas In terms of rural and small town infrastructure, channeling funds to the final users through the various layers of local government remains a challenge. According to the World Bank, China differs from many other developing countries in that there is not a history of the central government providing large subsidies for the financing of rural water supply and sanitation. Instead, there is greater emphasis on self-reliance with rural people using their own contributions and resources to improve their water supply. This financing structure causes poor rural areas to \"accurately match their ability to pay with the proper type of systems and level of service\", i.e. to choose sanitation solutions that they can afford. According to the World Bank, as a result, \"China is held up as a model for other developing countries\". Support for capital costs for water supply is partially provided by the local and/or provincial government. Beneficiaries have to provide upfront capital contributions. Through World Bank financing and central government counterpart financing these upfront capital contributions were reduced, thus making sanitation more affordable to the poor. According to \"The Economist\" magazine, \"some provinces are now bypassing both the prefectural- and township-level governments in order to get funds more directly to rural areas.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34033140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34033140", "title": "Whānau Ora", "text": "Whānau Ora\n\nWhānau Ora (\"family health\") is a major contemporary indigenous health initiative in New Zealand driven by Māori cultural values. Its core goal is to empower communities and extended families (\"whānau\") to support families within the community context rather than individuals within an institutional context.\n\nWhānau Ora evolved out of the coalition between the National and Māori parties after the 2008 general election and became a cornerstone of the coalition agreement between them after the 2011 general election. Te Puni Kōkiri, (the Ministry for Māori Development), states that\n\nThe Māori Party defines Whānau Ora at some length. Prior to the health initiative, \"Whānau Ora\" was the name of the Māori health awards.\n\nBetween April 2010 and September 2014, the-then Māori Party co-leader Tariana Turia served as Minister for Whānau Ora. Between September 2014 and October 2017, the portfolio for Whānau Ora was occupied by Māori Party co-leader Te Ururoa Flavell. Following the , the Labour MP Peeni Henare assumed the position of Minister for Whānau Ora.\n\nThe programme has been criticised for having hard to define and impossible to measure specific outputs; as well as a disproportionate amount of funding being spent in Turia's electorate.\n\nMP Winston Peters has been a vocal opponent of the program.\n\nThe longest-established national Māori health organisation, the Māori Women's Welfare League choose not to participate in Whānau Ora, but some regional leaders are involved. The League operates a parenting skills course called \"Whanau Toko i te Ora\" which is unrelated to Whānau Ora.\n"}
{"id": "57732209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57732209", "title": "William Henry Porter (surgeon)", "text": "William Henry Porter (surgeon)\n\nWilliam Henry Porter (5 March 1790 - 27 April 1861) was the president of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) in 1838.\n\n"}
{"id": "16040223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16040223", "title": "Zeitschrift für Evidenz, Fortbildung und Qualität im Gesundheitswesen", "text": "Zeitschrift für Evidenz, Fortbildung und Qualität im Gesundheitswesen\n\nZeitschrift für Evidenz, Fortbildung und Qualität im Gesundheitswesen (English: The Journal of Evidence and Quality in Health Care) is a bilingual German and English language peer-reviewed medical journal published by Elsevier Germany.\nIt was established in 1904 as the \"Zeitschrift für ärztliche Fortbildung\" (\"German Journal for Continuous Medical Education\") by Ernst von Bergmann. \nZEFQ is the organ of various organisations working in the fields of evidence-based medicine, patient empowerment, patient safety, and quality management in healthcare:. Among these are:\n\nZEFQ's editor in chief was Günter Ollenschläger from 1995 until 12/2015, succeeded by Gabriele Meyer\n\n"}
