{"id": "35648594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35648594", "title": "Alabama Champion Tree Program", "text": "Alabama Champion Tree Program\n\nThe Alabama Champion Tree Program is a listing of the largest known specimens of particular tree species, native or introduced, in the U.S. state of Alabama. It was established in 1970 by the Alabama Forestry Commission. The program was modeled on the National Register of Big Trees, started by the American Forests organization in 1940. The goal of Alabama's program is to record, heighten awareness of, and preserve the largest tree specimens in the state. It uses the same formula for recording tree specimens that was developed by American Forests. Former champions are removed from the list as new, larger, champions are identified and recorded. Although introduced species that have naturalized are generally eligible for the program, those species that the Alabama Invasive Plant Council considers to be invasive were removed from the listing in 2011 and are no longer eligible. With the addition of 20 new specimens in 2011, the program had a total of 159 Champion Trees listed.\n"}
{"id": "1115940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1115940", "title": "Alligator snapping turtle", "text": "Alligator snapping turtle\n\nThe alligator snapping turtle (\"Macrochelys temminckii\") is a species of turtle in the family Chelydridae, native to freshwater habitats in the United States. \"M. temminckii\" is one of the heaviest freshwater turtles in the world. It is often associated with, but not closely related to, the common snapping turtle, which is in the genus \"Chelydra\". The specific epithet \"temminckii\" is in honor of Dutch zoologist Coenraad Jacob Temminck.\n\nAlthough it was once believed that only one extant species exists in the genus \"Macrochelys\", recent studies have shown that there are two species, the other being the Suwannee snapping turtle (\"M. suwanniensis\") of the Suwannee River (a third species, the Apalachicola snapping turtle \"M. apalachicolae\", has been proposed, but is generally not recognized).\n\nThe alligator snapping turtle is given its common name because of its immensely powerful jaws and long, spring-like neck, as well as distinct ridges on its shell that are similar in appearance to the rough, ridged skin of an alligator.\n\nThe alligator snapping turtle is found primarily in southeastern United States waters. They are found from the Florida Panhandle west to East Texas, north to southeastern Kansas, Missouri, southeastern Iowa, western Illinois, southern Indiana, western Kentucky, and western Tennessee. They are found on the Missouri River at least as far north as the Gavins Point Dam, the southernmost dam on the Missouri River at Yankton, South Dakota, and are featured in the Gavins Point Dam Aquarium. Typically, only nesting females venture onto open land.\n\nThe alligator snapping turtle is characterized by a large, heavy head, and a long, thick shell with three dorsal ridges of large scales (osteoderms), giving it a primitive appearance reminiscent of some of the plated dinosaurs, most notably the ankylosaurs. They can be immediately distinguished from the common snapping turtle by the three distinct rows of spikes and raised plates on the carapace, whereas the common snapping turtle has a smoother carapace. They are a solid gray, brown, black, or olive-green in color, and often covered with algae. They have radiating yellow patterns around their eyes, serving to break up the outline of the eyes to keep the turtle camouflaged. Their eyes are also surrounded by a star-shaped arrangement of fleshy, filamentous \"eyelashes\".\n\nThough not verified, a alligator snapping turtle was found in Kansas in 1937, but the largest verifiable one is debatable. One weighed at the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago was a 16-year resident giant alligator snapper weighing , sent to the Tennessee Aquarium as part of a breeding loan in 1999, where it subsequently died. Another weighing was housed at the Brookfield Zoo in suburban Chicago. Another large turtle reportedly weighed . They generally do not grow quite that large. Breeding maturity is attained around , when the length is around , but then they continue to grow throughout life. Excluding exceptionally large specimens, adult alligator snapping turtles generally range in carapace length from and weigh from . Males are typically larger than females. 88 adult alligator snapping turtles averaged , 92 averaged , and 249 averaged . Usually very old males comprise the specimens that weigh in excess of per most population studies. Among extant freshwater turtles, only the little-known giant softshell turtles of the genera \"Chitra\", \"Rafetus\", and \"Pelochelys\", native to Asia, reach comparable sizes.\n\nIn \"mature\" specimens (carapace length over ), males and females can be differentiated by the position of the cloaca from the carapace and the thickness of the tail's base. A mature male's cloaca extends beyond the carapace edge, a female's is placed exactly on the edge if not nearer to the plastron. The base of the tail of the male is also thicker as compared to females because of the hidden reproductive organs.\n\nThe inside of the turtle's mouth is camouflaged, and it possesses a (i.e., \"worm-shaped\") appendage on the tip of its tongue used to lure fish, a form of Peckhamian mimicry. The turtle hunts by lying motionless in the water with its mouth wide open. The vermiform tongue imitates the movements of a worm, luring prey to the turtle's mouth. The mouth is then closed with tremendous speed and force, completing the ambush.\n\nContrary to claims that alligator snapping turtles possess one of the strongest bite forces of any animal, it has been recorded at , which is lower than several other species of turtles and at about the same level as humans, relative to the turtle's body size. Still, these turtles must be handled with extreme care and considered potentially dangerous. This species can bite through the handle of a broom and rare cases have been reported where human fingers have been cleanly bitten off by the species. No human deaths have been reported to have been caused by alligator snapping turtles.\n\nAlligator snappers are opportunistic feeders that are almost entirely carnivorous. They rely on both live food caught by themselves and dead organisms which they scavenge. In general, they will eat almost anything they can catch. Fishermen have glorified the species' ability to catch fish and to deplete fish populations, whereas in fact they largely target any abundant and easily caught prey, and rarely have any extensive deleterious effect on fish populations. Their natural diets consist primarily of fish and fish carcasses, molluscs, carrion, and amphibians, but they are also known to eat snakes, crayfish, worms, water birds, aquatic plants, and other turtles. In one study conducted in Louisiana, 79.8% of the stomach contents of adult alligator snapping turtles was found to be composed of other turtles, although the resistance of shell and reptile-bone fragments to digestion may have led these fragments to remain longer in the digestive tract than other items. This species may also, on occasion, prey on aquatic rodents, including nutrias and muskrats or even snatch small to mid-sized other mammals, including squirrels, opossums, raccoons, and armadillos when they attempt to swim or come to the water's edge.\n\nAlligator snapping turtles seemingly most often hunt at night. They may also hunt diurnally, however. By day, they may try to attract fish and other prey by sitting quietly at the bottom of murky water and let their jaws hang open to reveal their tongues, which look like small, pink, worm-like lures in the back of their gray mouths, and lure the prey into striking distance. Small fish, such as minnows, are often caught in this way by younger alligator snapping turtles, whereas adults must eat a greater quantity per day and must forage more actively. Though not a regular food source for them, adult alligator snappers have even been known to kill and eat small American alligators.\n\nIn captivity, they may consume almost any kind of meat provided, including beef, chicken, and pork. They will refuse to eat if exposed to extreme temperatures.\n\nMaturity is reached around 12 years of age. Mating takes place yearly, in early spring in the southern part of their total range, and later spring in the north. The female builds a nest and lays a clutch of 10–50 eggs about two months later. The sex of the young depends on the temperature at which the eggs are incubated. Nests are typically excavated at least 50 yards from the water's edge to prevent them from being flooded and drowned. Incubation takes from 100 to 140 days, and hatchlings emerge in the early fall.\n\nThough their potential lifespans in the wild are unknown, alligator snapping turtles are believed to be capable of living to 200 years of age, but 80 to 120 is more likely. In captivity, they typically live between 20 and 70 years.\n\nAlligator snapping turtles are sometimes captive-bred as pets and are readily available in the exotic animal trade. Due to their potential size and specific needs, they do not make particularly good pets for any but the most experienced aquatic turtle keepers.\n\nThey prefer to feed on live fish which they catch with their special technique, but will readily feed on other types of meat or leafy vegetables if offered. Hand feeding is dangerous. Extreme temperatures are known to affect the turtle's appetite and would result in the turtle refusing to feed until it has been remedied.\n\nDue to their sheer size, handling adult specimens can pose significant problems. Small turtles can be held by the sides of the shell with relative safety, but large individuals must be held by grasping the turtle's shell just behind the head and in front of the tail.\n\nDespite their reputation, alligator snapping turtles are typically not prone to biting. However, if provoked they are quite capable of delivering a powerful bite which can easily amputate fingers or cause other significant injuries. Some U.S states where alligator snapping turtles do not naturally occur (such as California) prohibit them from being kept as pets by residents.\n\nSome alligator snapping turtles were released or escaped into waters of the Czech Republic and Germany. In Bavaria, one turtle caused injury to a child, but was not caught. In Bohemia, four turtles of this species have been caught. Both countries have strong laws against keeping alligator snapping turtles without permission. Both are member states of the EU, which has laws against invasive species.\n\nBecause of collection for the exotic pet trade, overharvesting for their meat, and habitat destruction, some states have imposed bans on collecting alligator snapping turtles from the wild. The IUCN lists it as a threatened species, and as of June 14, 2006, it was afforded some international protection by being listed as a CITES III species (which will put limits on exportation from the United States and all international trade in this species).\n\nThe alligator snapping turtle is now endangered in several states, including Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois, and Missouri, where they are protected by state law. They are designated as \"in need of conservation\" in Kansas.\n\nIn October 2013, one was found in the Prineville Reservoir in Oregon. It was captured and euthanized by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, which considers alligator snapping turtles to be an invasive species. This one was the first found in the state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43106488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43106488", "title": "Besós V power station", "text": "Besós V power station\n\nBesós V power station (\"Central Térmica de Ciclo Combinado del Besòs\") is a combined cycle thermoelectric plant located in Sant Adrià de Besòs, suburb of Barcelona, Spain. It consists of two 430 MW thermal units fueled with natural gas, was connected to the grid in 2011 and is owned by Endesa.\n\n"}
{"id": "16942620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16942620", "title": "Bhajana Kutir", "text": "Bhajana Kutir\n\nBhajan Kutir a name of a religious place or residence of mainly Gaudiya ascetic, meditation hut. Usually a substandard small residence in Vrindavana.\n\n"}
{"id": "52457311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52457311", "title": "Bouligand Structure", "text": "Bouligand Structure\n\nA Bouligand structure is a layered and rotated microstructure resembling plywood, which is frequently found in naturally designed materials. It consists of multiple lamella,or layers, each one composed of aligned fibers. Adjacent lamella are progressively rotated with respect to the its neighbors. This structure enhances the mechanical properties of materials, especially its fracture resistance, and enables strength and in plane isotropy. It is found in various natural structures including the dactyl club of the mantis shrimp, the cosmoid scale of the coelacanth, and many other stomatopods.\n\nDue to its desirable mechanical properties, there are ongoing attempts to replicate Bouligand arrangements in the creation of failure resistant bioinspired materials. For example, it has been shown that layered composites (such as CFRP) utilizing this structure have enhanced impact properties. However, replicating the structure on small length scales is challenging, and the development and advancement of manufacturing techniques continually improves the ability to replicate this desirable structure.\n"}
{"id": "36982557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36982557", "title": "Bridge navigational watch alarm system", "text": "Bridge navigational watch alarm system\n\nA Bridge Navigational Watch Alarm System, abbreviated BNWAS, is an automatic system which sounds an alarm if the watch officer on the bridge of a ship falls asleep, becomes otherwise incapacitated, or is absent for too long a time. The BNWAS is automatically engaged when the ship's autopilot is activated.\n\nThe minimum requirement for a BNWAS under International Maritime Organization standards is to have a dormant stage and three alarm stages, except that on a non-passenger vessel, the second stage may be omitted.\n\nStage 1:\nWhen the autopilot is engaged, the bridge officer is required to signal his presence to the BNWAS system every 3 to 12 minutes in response to a flashing light, either by moving an arm in front of a motion sensor, pressing a confirmation button, or directly applying pressure to the BNWAS centre.\n\nStage 2:\nWhen a confirmation signal fails to occur within 15 seconds in Stage 1, an alarm will sound on the bridge, and if there is still no confirmation signal after a further 15 seconds, in the captain's and the first officer's cabins. One of them must then go to the bridge and cancel the alarm.\n\nStage 3:\nIf neither the captain nor the first officer cancels the alarm within a specified time period (between 90 seconds and 3 minutes depending on the size of the vessel), an alarm will sound in locations where other personnel are usually available.\n\nIn addition an emergency call function may be provided, by which bridge personnel can activate a Stage 2 or Stage 3 alarm to call for help.\n\nIMO requirements under the SOLAS resulting from an amendment of June 5, 2009, come into force on the following dates for ships classified by size:\n\nJuly 2011: new vessels in excess of 150 tonnes\n\nJuly 2011: all passenger vessels\n\nJuly 2012: all vessels in excess of 3,000 tonnes\n\nJuly 2013: all vessels between 500 and 3,000 tonnes\n\nJuly 2014: all vessels between 150 and 500 tonnes\n\nSpecific nations have added further regulations. For example, vessels of the Norwegian coastal fishery are required to activate a speed sensor connected to the vessel's motor or GPS.\n\nWired and wireless versions are available.\n"}
{"id": "173773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173773", "title": "Cataclysmic variable star", "text": "Cataclysmic variable star\n\nCataclysmic variable stars (CV) are stars which irregularly increase in brightness by a large factor, then drop back down to a quiescent state. They were initially called novae, from the Latin 'new', since ones with an outburst brightness visible to the naked eye and an invisible quiescent brightness appeared as new stars in the sky.\n\nCataclysmic variable stars are binary stars that consist of two components; a white dwarf primary, and a mass transferring secondary. The stars are so close to each other that the gravity of the white dwarf distorts the secondary, and the white dwarf accretes matter from the companion. Therefore, the secondary is often referred to as the \"donor star\". The infalling matter, which is usually rich in hydrogen, forms in most cases an accretion disc around the white dwarf. Strong UV and X-ray emission is often seen from the accretion disc, powered by the loss of gravitational potential energy from the infalling material.\n\nMaterial at the inner edge of disc falls onto the surface of the white dwarf primary. A classical nova outburst occurs when the density and temperature at the bottom of the accumulated hydrogen layer rise high enough to ignite runaway hydrogen fusion reactions, which rapidly convert the hydrogen layer to helium. If the accretion process continues long enough to bring the white dwarf close to the Chandrasekhar limit, the increasing interior density may ignite runaway carbon fusion and trigger a Type Ia supernova explosion, which would completely destroy the white dwarf.\n\nThe accretion disc may be prone to an instability leading to dwarf nova outbursts, when the outer portion of the disc changes from a cool, dull mode to a hotter, brighter mode for a time, before reverting to the cool mode. Dwarf novae can recur on a timescale of days to decades.\n\nCataclysmic variables are subdivided into several smaller groups, often named after a bright prototype star characteristic of the class. In some cases the magnetic field of the white dwarf is strong enough to disrupt the inner accretion disk or even prevent disk formation altogether. Magnetic systems often show strong and variable polarization in their optical light, and are therefore sometimes called polars; these often exhibit small-amplitude brightness fluctuations at what is presumed to be the period of rotation of the white dwarf.\n\nThere are over 1600 known CV systems. The catalog was frozen as of 1 February 2006 though more are discovered each year.\n\nCataclysmic variables are among the classes of astronomical objects most commonly found by amateurs, since a cataclysmic variable in its outburst phase is bright enough to be detectable with very modest instruments, and the only celestial objects easily confused with them are bright asteroids whose movement from night to night is clear.\n\nVerifying that an object is a cataclysmic variable is also fairly straightforward: they are usually quite blue objects, they exhibit rapid and strong variability, and they tend to have peculiar emission lines. They emit in the ultraviolet and X-ray ranges; they are expected also to emit gamma rays, from annihilation of positrons from proton-rich nuclei produced in the fusion explosion, but this has not yet been detected.\n\nAround six novae are discovered each year, whilst models based on observations in other galaxies suggest that the rate of occurrence ought to be between 20 and 50; this discrepancy is due partly to obscuration by interstellar dust, and partly to a lack of observers in the southern hemisphere and to the difficulties of observing while the Sun is up and at full moon.\n\nSome cataclysmic variables experience periodic brightenings caused by deformations of the accretion disk when its rotation is in resonance with the orbital period of the binary.\n\n"}
{"id": "13627006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13627006", "title": "Central American pine-oak forests", "text": "Central American pine-oak forests\n\nThe Central American pine-oak forests ecoregion, in the tropical and subtropical coniferous forests biome, is found in Central America and Chiapas state of southern Mexico.\n\nThe Central American pine-oak forests occupy an area of , extending along the mountainous spine of Central America, extending from the Sierra Madre de Chiapas in Mexico's Chiapas state through the highlands of Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras to central Nicaragua.\n\nThe pine-oak forests lie between elevation, and are surrounded at lower elevations by tropical moist forests and tropical dry forests. Higher elevations above are usually covered with Central American montane forests.\n\nThe Central American pine-oak forests are composed of many species characteristic of temperate North America including oaks (\"Quercus\" spp.), pines (\"Pinus\" spp.), fir (\"Abies\" \"guatemalensis\"), and cypress (\"Cupressus\" spp.).\n\n"}
{"id": "14679902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14679902", "title": "Chase (lighting)", "text": "Chase (lighting)\n\nA chase is an electrical application where strings of adjacent light bulbs cycle on and off frequently to give the illusion of lights moving along the string. With computerized lighting consoles, building chase sequences has become easier, while previously chases used mechanical means, such as a wheel with an electrified spindle which strikes electrical contacts for each circuit.\n\nChase lights (or chaser lights) are often associated with the marquee signs of some movie theaters, and have also been used as a common element of television game show sets.\n\nIn order to achieve a chase \"strip lights\" are most often used, especially when used in \"theatrical\" applications.\n\nSimilar design is used in computing, where it is known as \"marching ants\".\n\nSeveral separate circuits of lights (called channels) are needed to create a chase effect which is a simulation of motion achieved by turning these circuits ON and OFF in sequence. \nThe standard is 3 or 4 channels. \nFor 4 channels the lights are wired with one common and 4 different feeds. \nLight #1 is wired with lights #5 & 9 & 13, etc. (+4); \nLight #2 is wired with lights #6 & 10 & 14, etc. (+4);\nLight #3 is wired with lights #7 & 11 & 15, etc. (+4);\nLight #4 is wired with lights #8 & 12 & 16, etc. (+4).\n\nThe most common 4 channel chase which is seen in a theater Marquee perimeter lighting and other lighting animation applications consists of 4 channel wired light bulbs and an electronic chaser.\nThe electronic chaser turns channel #1 ON while all the other Channels remain OFF. Then after an adjustable period of time it turns OFF channel #1 while turning ON channel #2, then turn OFF channel #2 while turning ON channel #3, then turn OFF channel #3 while turning ON channel #4, then repeat.\nThis creates the illusion that the lights are moving in one direction.\nSome digital lighting chasers are made to do the above described single light chase pattern along with other combinations of Turning ON and OFF of the light to create different sequences like forward light chase, backward light chase, bouncing, dark chase (1 channel OFF while all 3 others ON), etc...\nAlso, more than 4 channel chasers are used to create more effects and to animate illuminated objects.\n\nChase circuits using LEDs are commonly built by electronics hobbyists with timer (such as the 555 timer IC) and counter (such as the 4017, which allows up to 10 channels) integrated circuits.\n"}
{"id": "6016829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6016829", "title": "Cherry Springs State Park", "text": "Cherry Springs State Park\n\nCherry Springs State Park is an Pennsylvania state park in Potter County, Pennsylvania, United States. The park was created from land within the Susquehannock State Forest, and is on Pennsylvania Route 44 in West Branch Township. Cherry Springs, named for a large stand of Black Cherry trees in the park, is atop the dissected Allegheny Plateau at an elevation of . It is popular with astronomers and stargazers for having \"some of the darkest night skies on the east coast\" of the United States, and was chosen by the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources (DCNR) and its Bureau of Parks as one of \"25 Must-See Pennsylvania State Parks\".\n\nThe earliest recorded inhabitants of the area were the Susquehannocks, followed by the Seneca nation, who hunted there. The first settlement within the park was a log tavern built in 1818 along a trail; the trail became a turnpike by 1834 and a hotel replaced the tavern in 1874, then burned in 1897. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries the old-growth forests were clearcut; the state forest was established in 1901 and contains second growth woodlands. \"Cherry Springs Scenic Drive\" was established in 1922, and the Civilian Conservation Corps built much of Cherry Springs State Park during the Great Depression, including a picnic pavilion listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP). An annual \"Woodsmen's Show\" has been held in the park each August since 1952.\n\nCherry Springs State Park was named Pennsylvania's first dark sky park by the DCNR in 2000. The adjoining Cherry Springs Airport, built in 1935, was closed and its land was added to the park in 2006, to expand its stargazing area. On June 11, 2007, the International Dark-Sky Association named it the second \"International Dark Sky Park\"; under optimum conditions the Milky Way casts a discernible shadow. Cherry Springs has received national press coverage and hosts two star parties a year, which attract hundreds of astronomers. There are regular stargazing and educational programs for the public at the park, and the Woodsmen's Show attracts thousands each summer. Cherry Springs also offers rustic camping, picnic facilities, and trails for mountain biking, hiking, and snowmobiling. The surrounding state forest and park are home to a variety of flora and fauna.\n\nArcheological evidence shows that humans have lived in what is now Pennsylvania since at least 10,000 BC. The first settlers were Paleo-Indian nomadic hunters known from their stone tools. The hunter-gatherers of the Archaic period, which lasted locally from 7000 to 1000 BC, used a greater variety of more sophisticated stone artifacts. The Woodland period marked the gradual transition to semi-permanent villages and horticulture, between 1000 BC and 1500 AD. Archeological evidence found in the state from this time includes a range of pottery types and styles, burial mounds, pipes, bows and arrows, and ornaments.\nHistorical records show that the earliest known inhabitants of the West Branch Susquehanna River drainage basin, which includes Cherry Springs State Park, were the Iroquoian-speaking Susquehannocks. They were a matriarchal society that lived in large long houses in stockaded villages. Decimated by disease and warfare with the Five Nations of the Iroquois, by 1675 they had died out, moved away, or been assimilated into other tribes. Another name for the tribe is \"Susquehanna\", and both the river and the Susquehannock State Forest which almost completely surrounds the park are named for them.\n\nAfter the departure of the Susquehannocks, the lands of the West Branch Susquehanna River valley were under the nominal control of the Iroquois, who lived in long houses, primarily in what is now upstate New York, and had a strong confederacy which gave them power beyond their numbers. The Seneca, members of the Iroquois Confederacy, hunted in the area of what is now Cherry Springs State Park. Their nearest villages were to the northeast at modern Painted Post, New York, and to the southeast at what is now Lock Haven, Pennsylvania. The Seneca had temporary hunting camps to the east in the area of Pine Creek Gorge. To fill the void left by the demise of the Susquehannocks, the Iroquois also encouraged displaced tribes from the east to settle in the West Branch watershed, including the Lenape (or Delaware) and Shawnee.\n\nThe Seneca allowed very few travelers to pass through the area and kept non-native settlement to a minimum. The French and Indian War (1754–1763) led to the migration of many Native Americans westward to the Ohio River basin, and more departed after the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783). The United States acquired the Last Purchase, including what is now Cherry Springs State Park, from the Iroquois in the second Treaty of Fort Stanwix in October 1784. In the years that followed, Native Americans almost entirely left Pennsylvania.\n\nPotter County was formed from part of Lycoming County on March 26, 1804, but the difficult terrain and thick old-growth forest prevented the new county from being settled by European-Americans until 1808. Prior to the arrival of William Penn and his Quaker colonists in 1682, up to 90 percent of what is now Pennsylvania was covered with woods: more than of eastern white pine, eastern hemlock, and a mix of hardwoods. The forests in and near the three original counties, Philadelphia, Bucks, and Chester, were the first to be harvested, as the early settlers used the readily available timber and cleared land for agriculture. By the time of the American Revolution, logging had reached the interior and mountainous regions, and became a leading industry in Pennsylvania. Trees furnished fuel to heat homes, tannin for the state's many tanneries, and wood for construction, furniture, and barrel making. Large areas of forest were harvested by colliers to fire iron furnaces. Rifle stocks and shingles were made from Pennsylvania timber, as were a wide variety of household utensils, and the first Conestoga wagons.\nThe area surrounding Cherry Springs State Park has been a wilderness for much of its history. A bridle path was cut through the woods in 1806–1807, and was widened to accommodate wagons in 1812. (Modern Pennsylvania Route 44, which passes through the park, follows the course of this path between Jersey Shore and Coudersport.) In 1818 the Ceres Land Company, which owned much of the land in Potter County and sought to open the area to settlement, hired an early settler, Jonathan Edgcomb, to build a tavern or hotel for travelers at the site of the park. The hotel was in a very remote location south of Coudersport, and its visitors were few, occasional wandering travelers or Native Americans.\n\nEdgcomb and his wife received of land in exchange for building the hotel and running it for three years. When the contract expired in 1821, they sold their land and left the area, but the hotel and land that Edgcomb had cleared became known as \"Edgcomb's Clearing\". The Jersey Shore and Coudersport Turnpike was constructed along the wagon path between 1825 and 1834, and tolls were collected for travel on the road until 1860. The park is in West Branch Township, which was incorporated from Eulalia Township in 1856. A post office was opened at Edgcomb's Clearing in 1873; the locals petitioned the United States Post Office to change the name to \"Cherryville\", for a nearby group of Black Cherry trees. However, since there was already a Cherryville, Pennsylvania, post office in Lehigh Township in Northampton County, the name \"Cherry Spring\" was chosen as a compromise. In time an \"s\" was added, hence the name \"Cherry Springs\". There are also at least two springs in the park.\n\nIn 1874 a new, larger hotel was built on the other side of the road from the original tavern. It provided accommodations for wealthy summer visitors from Coudersport. This part of Potter County became known for an abundance of game and fish, and attracted hunters and anglers who also stayed at the Cherry Springs Hotel. This era as a \"sportsmen's paradise\" was not to last, as the more profitable lumber industry came to West Branch and surrounding townships, which were home to \"some of the tallest, straightest timber left standing\" along the East Coast of the United States.\n\nWhen lumbermen reached the Cherry Springs area in the late 1880s, eastern white pine and eastern hemlock covered the surrounding mountains. Lumberjacks harvested the trees and sent them down the creeks to the West Branch Susquehanna River to the Susquehanna Boom and sawmills at Williamsport. Clearcutting allowed silt to choke the streams, and nothing was left except the dried-out tree tops, which became a fire hazard. As a result, large swaths of land burned and were left barren, and much of the central part of the state became known as the \"Pennsylvania Desert\". The Cherry Springs Hotel itself burned in 1897 and the property was abandoned.\n\nAs the timber was exhausted and the land burned, many companies simply abandoned their holdings. In 1897 the Pennsylvania General Assembly passed legislation which authorized the purchase of \"unseated lands for forest reservations\" and the first Pennsylvania state forest lands were acquired the following year. The first land for the Susquehannock State Forest was acquired in 1901; the cost for the major acquisitions was an average of $2.50 per acre ($6.18 per ha). This is roughly equivalent to $ per acre ($ per ha) in 2018 terms. As of 2003, the Susquehannock State Forest, which almost entirely surrounds the park, covered , chiefly in Potter County with small tracts in Clinton and McKean counties.\nThe park traces its existence back to 1922, when the Pennsylvania Department of Forestry established three scenic areas in state forests as part of a \"plan for retaining their natural beauty\". One of these was the \"Cherry Springs Scenic Drive\" on the old Coudersport-Jersey Shore Turnpike. That same year, one of 16 \"Class B\" public campgrounds in the state forests was located on Cherry Springs Drive. These campgrounds were free for the public to use and all had potable water, picnic tables, a fireplace, garbage can, and a latrine. The land where the hotel sat was purchased by the state in 1932.\n\nLike many state parks in north central Pennsylvania, development of the facilities at Cherry Springs was the work of the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC), a work relief program for young men from unemployed families. Established in 1933 as part of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal legislation, the CCC was designed to combat unemployment during the Great Depression. It operated in every U.S. state, and established ten CCC camps in the Susquehannock State Forest, of which eight were in Potter County.\n\nCherry Springs was home to CCC Camp S-136-Pa, which was established on May 27, 1933. According to the camp's 1936 History: \"Through the efforts of the [CCC] enrollees Cherry Springs Park, formerly a clearing, has been transformed into a park of which the people of Potter County can be proud of.\"[\"sic\"] A historic recreation of the original tavern was built, as were a rifle range, picnic tables and shelters, roads, and hiking trails. The young men of the CCC camps worked to clear brush from the woods as a fire prevention measure. After clearing the woods, they planted stands of Norway Spruce and white pine, as well as an apple orchard. Camp-136-Pa closed on July 10, 1937.\nMen from CCC Camp S-88-Pa, based at nearby Lyman Run in Potter County, were also active in the park. In 1939, they built a structure at Cherry Springs which is \"the largest and most unique of the CCC-built picnic pavilions\" in the state, and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The pavilion overlooks PA Route 44 and is shaped like an H, with two partially enclosed structures (the vertical lines of the H) connected by a breezeway (the horizontal bar). The breezeway is a roof supported by eight log columns with log railings. The ends of the pavilion are built from log walls with white chinking, like log cabins. Each end has a large opening to the breezeway in one wall, while the other three sides are fully enclosed with a large window in the wall facing the highway, a stone fireplace and chimney on the opposite wall, and a door flanked by windows on the wall opposite the breezeway.\n\nA 1984 survey of Pennsylvania state parks found the \"three picnic pavilions, and their associated latrines\" at Cherry Springs \"typical of the smallest day use areas constructed by the CCC\". These pavilions are examples of the rustic style built by the CCC in state parks throughout the Great Depression. Local materials were used in a way that minimized impact on the natural surroundings, and in a manner that resembled the building style of the pioneer settlements of the Appalachian Mountains.\n\nIn addition to the two CCC camps active at the park, Cherry Springs also was home to Camp Elliott, which was run by the Pennsylvania Department of Forests and Waters (precursor to the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources (DCNR)) for college students and other unemployed men. In 1935 they built an airfield, Cherry Springs Intermediate Field, just north of the park. The airfield was originally built for emergency landings and later became a small airport. In 1936 it had a sod runway of dimensions , and a hangar. The United States' entry into the Second World War led to the end of the CCC and all its camps were closed by the summer of 1942.\n\nThe park has had several names through the years, starting with its 1922 establishment as \"Cherry Springs Scenic Drive\" and the associated \"Cherry Springs 'Class B' public campground\". The 1941 Pennsylvania Department of Highways official map of Potter County shows it as \"Cherry Springs State Park\". On November 11, 1954, the Pennsylvania Geographic Board officially named it \"Cherry Springs State Forest Picnic Area\". Forrey's 1984 \"History of Pennsylvania's State Parks\" and the 1986 NRHP nomination form still used this name, but Forrey clarified that it was \"under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of State Parks\". Cupper's 1993 \"Our Priceless Heritage: Pennsylvania's State Parks 1893–1993\" refers to it as \"Cherry Springs State Park\", and this remains the official name as of 2009.\nIn the post-war era, the park was long known chiefly for its isolated location and primitive camping facilities. In August 1952 it played host to the first Woodsmen's Carnival, an annual celebration of the lumbering industry, which was again active in the second growth forests in the area. The festival, originally sponsored by the Penn-York Lumbermen's Club, features lumberjack competitions as a reminder of the past, as well as displays of new equipment. In 1987 the Galeton Rotary Club took over sponsorship, and renamed the event the Woodsmen's Show in 1990.\n\nIn the 1980s, the CCC and its work in the park were honored. Cherry Springs State Park was one of several to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Civilian Conservation Corps with a CCC reunion in the summer of 1983. On May 11, 1987, the Cherry Springs Picnic Pavilion was listed on the NRHP. None of the other remaining CCC structures in the park had retained its historic integrity sufficiently to be included on the NRHP.\n\nCherry Springs began attracting stargazers in the early 1990s. In 1999 the \"Dark Sky Fund\" was established and continues \"to enhance the stargazing and astronomy experience\" by funding improvements at the park. In 2000 Cherry Springs was officially named a \"Dark Sky Park\" by the DCNR, and that same year it became part of the Hills Creek State Park complex, an administrative grouping of eight state parks in Potter and Tioga counties. The headquarters for Cherry Springs are at nearby Lyman Run State Park. The National Public Observatory picked it \"as the pilot for the Stars-n-Parks program\" in April 2001. The DCNR acquired the Cherry Springs Airport in 2006 \"to expand the overall Dark Sky observation area and allow for increased programming opportunities\" at the park, and closed it in 2007. On June 11, 2008, the International Dark-Sky Association named Cherry Springs State Park the second \"International Dark Sky Park\". (The first was Natural Bridges National Monument in Utah.) In 2018, the section of Pennsylvania Route 44 passing through the park was named Highway to the Stars, following an effort led by photographer Curt Weinhold, a Potter County resident, and legislation sponsored by State Representative Martin Causer and approved by Governor Tom Wolf.\n\nCherry Springs State Park is at an elevation of above sea level, atop the Allegheny Plateau and \"near the glaciated boundary\". The plateau and the Appalachian Mountains were all formed in the Alleghenian orogeny some 300 million years ago, when Gondwana (specifically what became Africa) and what became North America collided, forming Pangaea. Although the region appears mountainous, these are not true mountains: instead millions of years of erosion have made this a dissected plateau, causing the \"mountainous\" terrain seen today. The hardest of the ancient rocks are on top of the ridges, while the softer rocks eroded away forming the valleys.\n\nThe park is in the West Branch Pine Creek drainage basin, where the underlying rocks are primarily conglomerate, sandstone, and shale. Two major rock formations are present in Cherry Springs State Park, both at least partly from the Carboniferous period. The youngest of these, which forms the highest points in the park, is the early Pennsylvanian Pottsville Formation, a gray conglomerate that may contain sandstone, siltstone, and shale, as well as anthracite coal. The lower formation is the late Devonian and early Mississippian Huntley Mountain Formation, which is made of relatively soft grayish-red shale and olive-gray sandstone. Outside the park the creek has cut down into the Devonian Catskill Formation, a reddish sandstone.\n\nThe Allegheny Plateau has a continental climate, with occasional severe low temperatures in winter and average daily temperature ranges of 20 °F (11 °C) in winter and 26 °F (14 °C) in summer. The mean annual precipitation for the West Branch Pine Creek watershed is . January is the coldest month at Cherry Springs, July the warmest, and June the wettest. The highest recorded temperature at the park was in 1966, and the record low was in 1963.\n\nCherry Springs State Park and the surrounding Susquehannock State Forest have recovered from the clearcutting of the lumber era. However, the composition of the forests has changed, so that there are now more hardwoods, including sugar maple and black cherry, and fewer eastern white pine and eastern hemlock. The park also has apple trees from the CCC orchard. Over 400 species of birds have been found in Pennsylvania, including 186 that breed in the state. Birds such as ospreys, hawks, owls, nightjars, and bald eagles have returned to the park and state forest, and saw-whet owls have been studied in the park.\n\nSome animals which had been locally extinct have also returned or been reintroduced to the area, including white-tailed deer, elk, fishers (a type of weasel), and otters. Although banned in the park, hunting is allowed in the surrounding state forest, which regained its title as a \"sportsmen's paradise\" in the 20th century. Game species include black bears, white-tailed deer, ducks, ruffed grouse, rabbits, gray and red squirrels, and wild turkeys. Other animals present in the park and forest include chipmunks, minks, raccoons, porcupines, groundhogs, and the occasional bobcat, as well as frogs, beetles, and moths.\n\nA branch of Hopper House Run rises within the park, and flows east and then north into the West Branch Pine Creek. West Branch Road (or Branch Road) follows the valleys of the run and creek from Pennsylvania Route 44 east to Galeton. PA 44 roughly follows the line dividing the Pine Creek watershed to the north and the Sinnemahoning Creek watershed to the south. East Fork Road leaves PA 44 in the park and follows the East Fork Sinnemahoning Creek valley southwest to the village of Conrad. Both creeks are approved trout streams for fishing, which means they are stocked with trout in season.\n\nAstronomers and stargazers appreciate Cherry Springs State Park for the darkness and clarity of its skies, which make it \"perhaps the last best refuge of the natural night sky\" in the eastern half of the United States. The sky at Cherry Springs has been classified as a 2 on the Bortle Dark-Sky Scale, meaning it has almost no light pollution. Such \"truly dark, starry skies are unavailable to two-thirds of the world's population, including 99 percent of people in the continental U.S. and Western Europe\". With optimum conditions, 10,000 stars are visible with the naked eye at the park, clouds appear only as black holes in the starry sky, and the Milky Way is so bright that it casts a discernible shadow. In contrast, big city residents can see a few dozen stars at best, and even those in rural areas can typically only see 2,000–3,000 stars. The Milky Way cannot be seen by most in the eastern US, even when there is no moonlight to obscure it.\n\nThe quality of the night skies at the park and its growing popularity for stargazing are the result of several factors. Cherry Springs is in the midst of the largely undeveloped Susquehannock State Forest, and is on a summit above sea level. Because it is on the Allegheny Plateau, there are no mountain peaks to block the sky, and the Astronomy Field offers a 360 degree unobstructed view. The closest city is Williamsport, to the southeast. Surrounding communities sit in deep valleys, so the intervening terrain screens much of the light they produce; the park has no artificial skyglow in any direction. Cherry Springs is generally fog-free and its latitude puts it in excellent position to observe the Galactic Center of the Milky Way. The remote location also means there is little commercial air traffic to interfere with astrophotography, while PA Route 44 still offers relatively easy access to the park from Interstate 80.\n\nIn addition to these natural factors, much has been done intentionally to make the skies at the park clear and dark and help keep them that way. Within the park, former overhead electrical lines have been buried so they do not obstruct views, all lighting is shielded, and all white lights have been converted to red, which has the least effect on night vision and astrophotography. Light from passing vehicles is blocked by earthen berms covered with grass, or shrubbery and spruce trees; the Astronomy Field gate has a special light-blocking tarp. The park's Dark Sky Fund has paid for many of these improvements since 1999.\nSince the 2006 acquisition of the Cherry Springs airport, a new Public Programming field has been established on the former airstrip. This field is northeast of PA Route 44 and is intended for educational programs or stargazing, but not for those who spend the night. Overnight observers and those with large telescopes use the Astronomy Field southwest of the highway. Nighttime visitors may only use flashlights with red filters, and may only point them at the ground. The Astronomy Field has further restrictions on lights, and parts of the park are light-free zones.\n\nTo help preserve the dark skies at Cherry Springs State Park, Tri-County Rural Electric company installs light-shielding caps on outdoor lights at local homes for free. In 2001 the Pennsylvania General Assembly passed the \"Outdoor Lighting Control Act\", which both established the park as a \"Dark Sky Preserve\" and required minimal and shielded lighting at all new state facilities to reduce light pollution. A design guide for the Pennsylvania Wilds region, which includes the park, emphasizes the importance of maintaining dark skies. The DCNR spent $396,000 in June 2007 to buy mineral rights under of the park and state forest to prevent natural gas drilling and associated development there.\n\nA wind farm has been proposed on a site from the park. In 2008 Potter County passed an ordinance that wind turbine lights shall not \"interfere with the state-designated Dark Skies Preserve at Cherry Springs State Park\". That same year the DCNR commissioned a study on the wind farm's impact, which concluded the red warning lights on the wind turbines would not impact the darkness of the sky and would only be directly visible from the Astronomy Field under rare conditions. Others in the astronomy community challenged these conclusions and feared that new lights on \"several dozen wind turbines near the park\" will degrade observations and astrophotography. The study also recommended that the DCNR shield and redirect lights at the nearby Denton Hill State Park downhill ski area to make the sky even darker at Cherry Springs.\n\nThe staff at Cherry Springs State Park did not intend for it to become an attraction for amateur astronomers; the astronomers came to them instead. In 1997 or 1998 Chip Harrison, the park supervisor, noticed a man looking through a telescope at the park at about 1 AM. When Harrison asked why the man had come there, the astronomer said he had noticed an isolated black patch over north central Pennsylvania on nighttime satellite photos. Cherry Springs State Park is in that patch, one of the best locations east of the Mississippi River for stargazing.\n\nAn increasing number of astronomers began to come to Cherry Springs, most in the 14-day dark sky period around the new moon, between the last quarter and first quarter phases. The park is open year-round and between 60 and 85 nights each year have ideal conditions, when the apparent magnitudes of the faintest stars visible can range from 7.1 to 7.5. The park's Astronomy Field has been upgraded to accommodate these astronomers. In 2005 a rotating slotted observatory dome, two clamshell domes, and a sky shed were added, as well as a small amphitheater for programs. The four structures protect telescopes from the wind and thermal currents. The next year concrete pads in diameter were placed at random in the field, and electrical pedestals, each with six outlets, were added to power telescopes and computers. In 2009, Wi-Fi internet access was added to the Astronomy Field.\nWhile a typical clear night might have 50 to 100 observers, each year the park hosts two major star parties which both attract several hundred astronomers for several nights. The Black Forest Star Party, sponsored by the Central Pennsylvania Observers of State College, has been held each fall since 1999. The Cherry Springs Star Party, sponsored by the Astronomical Society of Harrisburg, has been held each June since 2005. There are also free public programs at the amphitheater on the former airport site, some of which are part of the National Public Observatory's Stars-n-Parks program. Meteor showers will also attract a crowd and the Aurora Borealis can be seen from the park. A stargazing business, \"Crystal Spheres\", has been established and presents Music and Stars programs, with an hour-long concert followed by an hour of stargazing. Such \"nature tourism\" has a positive economic impact for the area.\n\nAwards and press recognition have come to Cherry Springs and its staff. Thom Bemus, who initiated and coordinates the Stars-n-Parks program, was named DCNR's 2002 Volunteer of the Year. In 2007 the park's Dark Sky Programming and staff received the Environmental Education Excellence in Programming award from the Pennsylvania Recreation and Parks Society. Operations manager Chip Harrison and his wife Maxine, who directs the Dark Sky Fund, received a 2008 award from the Pennsylvania Outdoor Lighting Council for \"steadfast adherence and active promotion of the principles of responsible outdoor lighting at Cherry Springs State Park\". The DCNR has named Cherry Springs one of \"25 Must-See Pennsylvania State Parks\", specifically for having the \"darkest night skies on the east coast\". Cherry Springs State Park was featured in the national press in 2003 when \"USA Today\" named it one of \"10 Great Places to get some stars in your eyes\", in 2006 when \"National Geographic Adventure\" featured it in \"Pennsylvania: The Wild, Wild East\", and in \"The New York Times\" in 2007. All these were before it was named an International Dark Sky Park by the International Dark-Sky Association in 2008.\n\nThe Woodsmen's Show attracts thousands of visitors to Cherry Springs State Park on the first weekend in August. It has been held every year since 1952, and has been sponsored by the Galeton Rotary Club since 1987. In 2008 events at the three-day show included tree-felling, cross-cutting, log rolling, axe-throwing, horse pulling, spring board chopping, the standing block chop, and chainsaw competitions and demonstrations. The 2008 show also featured historic recreations of life in a logging camp, musical performances, and vendors selling food, crafts, and equipment related to the lumber industry.\n\nThe show and its events, which celebrate Potter County's lumbering history, have changed with time. In the early years, up to three working sawmills were set up just for the carnival, and there was an associated Woodsmen's Ball on Saturday evening, after the carnival ended. The Woodsmen's Show had its first female competitor in 1979. Some events have been tried and discontinued; in 1987 one-hour seminars on topics such as \"Outdoor Adventures on Mules\" and the first \"Woodsmen's Carnival Queen\" were introduced, and in 1993 there was tractor pulling with lawn tractors. In 1990 the name was changed from the \"Woodsmen's Carnival\" to the \"Woodsmen's Show\", a third day was added, and an ecumenical church service was held Sunday morning in the large picnic pavilion. The next year the show was part of the STIHL Timbersports Series and some of the competition was televised on ESPN. Although it is no longer part of the STIHL series, as of 2008 many of the same athletes competed at the show.\n\nAttendance was 4,000 the first year and grew to 12,000 three years later in 1955, then peaked at 33,000 in 1962, with nearly as many in 1965 (32,000) and 1981 (30,000). In 1983, 20,000 visitors came to the show, 15,000 came in 1985, and by the early 21st century attendance was about 14,000. Admission is charged and cash prizes are awarded in the competitions. Proceeds from the show under the Penn-York Lumbermen's Club went to promote the lumber industry and support the Pennsylvania Lumber Museum. The Galeton Rotary Club has used the funds to improve the standard of living in and around Galeton, including college scholarships, a new roof for the community building, support for the local public library, and clean-up and maintenance of the downtown area.\n\nThe park has 30 camping sites which can each accommodate a tent, or a recreational vehicle (RV) up to long. The sites all have a fire ring, lantern hanger, and picnic table, and are classified as rustic because they have no running water. The camping area, which is southeast of Pennsylvania Route 44, is open from April to December and does accept reservations. The park has two modern latrines, one in the camping area and the other at the Astronomy Field. There is also a holding tank dump station for RVs. Although the Astronomy Field is not an official camping area, overnight observers may set up tents and vehicles there in which to camp. In addition to the picnic tables and small pavilion in the camping area, the main picnic area at Cherry Springs is on the southwest side of Route 44, in and around the large historic, CCC-built pavilion. The area surrounding the pavilion has many picnic tables situated in an old apple orchard and a stand of huge white pine and Norway spruce trees.\n\nCherry Springs State Park is at the southern end of a long, single-track mountain bike trail, which begins at Denton Hill State Park and passes through Patterson State Park. In 2005 the snowmobile trailhead at Cherry Springs was moved to the southern end of the park to avoid the Astronomy Field. The snowmobile trail is one of many trails available for cross-country skiing, backpacking, hiking, and all-terrain vehicle and horseback riding in the surrounding Susquehannock State Forest. The long Susquehannock Trail System passes close to the park and loops around it. South of the park the trail passes through the Hammersley Wild Area, which at without roads is the second largest wild area in Pennsylvania.\n\nCherry Springs State Park is on Pennsylvania Route 44 in West Branch Township, southwest of Galeton. The following state parks are within of Cherry Springs State Park:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6843398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6843398", "title": "Convection heater", "text": "Convection heater\n\nA convection heater is a heater which operates by air convection currents circulating through the body of the appliance, and across its heating element. This heats up the air, causing it to increase in volume and so become buoyant and rise. Oil heaters are an example of this kind of heating appliance. A convection heater may have an electrical heater element, a hot water coil, or a steam coil. Because of the natural ventilation, they are quieter in operation than fan heaters.\n\nThe Model “S”, here as illustrated in 1924, is an example of an early model convection space heater, by the Sala Heater & Mantel Co. in Dallas, Texas. \nThe Model \"S\" was considered to be highly efficient radiant type of gas heater at the time. The heater utilizes radiant heat, and, by virtue of draft construction, supplements its power by drawing cold air through the facing, heating it and forcing it into the room through the register. This not only forces the circulation that provides an even warmth in every section of the room, but enables the heater to operate at all times with a perfectly cool exterior. Positive circulation provides an even warmth throughout the room, and guarantees a clean, humid, healthful air to occupants. \n\nThe mixing chamber, due to its exclusive construction, utilizes centrifugal force to insure a perfect mixture between the gas and air, which in turn provides complete combustion, thus preventing dangerous fumes. After the gas leaves the mixing chamber it passes into a distribution chamber whose shape is such that an equal amount of gas passes into each jet, giving uniform flame height and also intensity.\n\nDue to the rising warm air from convector heaters, warm air may accumulate at the ceiling of the room. Therefore, convector heaters are often paired with ceiling fans, especially in rooms with tall ceilings. In the winter, setting a fan to turn clockwise will allow for more air circulation and will keep heat from rising completely, making the room feel warmer and allowing one to turn down the thermostat.\n\n\n2. blog.fanimation.com - \"5 Myths About Ceiling Fans: Busted\"\n\n[[Category:Heaters]]\n[[Category:Convection]]\n"}
{"id": "7024760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7024760", "title": "Czech Hydrometeorological Institute", "text": "Czech Hydrometeorological Institute\n\nThe Czech Hydrometeorological Institute (CHMI) () is within the Environmental Ministry of the Czech Republic. The head office and centralized workplaces of the CHMI, including the data processing, telecommunication and technical services, are located at the Institute's own campus in Prague. The CHMI has five major divisions:\n\n\nThe National Meteorological Institute was established in 1919 shortly after the Czechoslovak Republic was established at the end of World War I. On January 1, 1954, the National Meteorological Institute was united with the hydrology service and the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute was established. Its charter was amended in 1994 and in 1995 by the Ministry of the Environment of the Czech Republic.\n\nThe Air Quality Protection division has seven departments:\n\n\nThe work of the Modelling and Expertise Pool department is focused upon: the development of air pollution dispersion models; the application of such models in the preparation of expert reports and opinions; forecasts of air quality control; the processing of operating information on pollutant concentrations obtained by the Airborne Monitoring section. \n\nThe SYMOS97 air pollution dispersion model was developed at the CHMI. It models the dispersion of continuous, neutral or buoyant plumes from single or multiple point, area or line sources. It can handle complex terrain and it can also be used to simulate the dispersion of cooling tower plumes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2642796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2642796", "title": "DEEP2 Redshift Survey", "text": "DEEP2 Redshift Survey\n\nThe DEEP2 Survey or DEEP2 was a two-phased Redshift survey of the Redshift z=~1 universe (where z= a measure of speed and by extension, the distance from earth). It used the twin 10 metre Keck telescopes in Hawaii (the world's second largest optical telescope) to measure the spectra and hence the redshifts of approximately 50,000 galaxies. It was the first project to study galaxies in the distant Universe with the resolution of local surveys like the Sloan Digital Sky Survey and was completed in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "961558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=961558", "title": "Deep Creek Lake State Park", "text": "Deep Creek Lake State Park\n\nDeep Creek Lake State Park is a state-operated, public recreation area surrounding Deep Creek Lake in Garrett County, Maryland, in the United States. The park features water activities, camping facilities, and recreational trails and is located about south of Interstate 68 on U.S. Route 219.\n\nAlthough settlers arrived in the area in the 1700s, it was the massive logging operations of the 20th century that stripped the land of its virgin forest. The park's forest of oaks and hickories was regenerated from the original timber stand.\n\nThe Deep Creek Lake reservoir was created on a tributary of the Youghiogheny River with completion of the Deep Creek Dam by the Pennsylvania Electric Company in 1925. The state took charge of recreation on the lake in 1980, then purchased the land underlying the lake and buffer zone properties for $17 million in 2000.\n\nIn September 2010, the Appalachian Regional Commission $20,000 in funding for a study of potential development at Deep Creek Lake. An official tourism website promoting Deep Creek Lake was launched soon after by the Garrett County Chamber of Commerce.\n\nLake activities include motor boating, water skiing, swimming, fishing, and canoeing. A campground has 112 campsites, 26 with electricity. Trails are used for hiking and mountain biking. The park's Discovery Center offers exhibits on local plants and wildlife, including the American black bears occasionally seen in the campground, the lake and its watershed, conservation issues, and local coal and logging activities in addition to the daily educational programs about nature and the environment presented by naturalists, rangers, and volunteers.\n\nJohnny's Bait House was a business and facility that operated on the shore of Deep Creek Lake from 1955 to 2003. It was owned and operated by Johnny Marple and his wife Elaine. Johnny promoted and supported the fishing industry at Deep Creek Lake. In the early years, Johnny's was open year-round, supporting all fishing, including ice fishing, but eventually started closing during the winter months. Johnny's provided the Deep Creek Lake Fishing Report to the Maryland Department of Natural Resources and many publications such as \"The Washington Post\", Baltimore Sun, Field and Stream Magazine. and Star Democrat.\n\nJohnnys partnered with the Garrett County Promotion Council and founded the Garrett County Fishing Contest, a weekly event that continues to this day. The establishment also managed the official Deep Creek Lake Fishing records through 2003. During that time, multiple Maryland state freshwater fishing record catches were registered. Johnny assisted the State of Maryland Department of Natural Resources in the monitoring of fish population and the registration of fish tagged for population studies. Many of the collection of mounted fish from that time period are still on display in the Discovery Center of the Deep Creek Lake State Park. The former location of Johnny's is currently occupied by Bill's Outdoor Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "7128522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7128522", "title": "Depth hoar", "text": "Depth hoar\n\nDepth hoar (also called sugar snow) are large crystals occurring at the base of a snowpack that form when uprising water vapor deposits or desublimates onto existing snow crystals. Depth hoar crystals are large, sparkly grains with facets that can be cup-shaped and that are up to 10 mm in diameter. Depth hoar crystals bond poorly to each other, increasing the risk for avalanches.\n\nThe formation of depth hoar in Arctic or Antarctic firn can cause isotopic changes in the accumulating ice. This can influence analysis of ice cores in scientific research.\n\n"}
{"id": "297353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297353", "title": "Desventuradas Islands", "text": "Desventuradas Islands\n\nThe Desventuradas Islands (, , \"Unfortunate Islands\" or \"Islas de los Desventurados\", \"Islands of the Unfortunate Ones\") is a group of four small islands located off the coast of Chile, northwest of Santiago in the Pacific Ocean. They are considered part of Insular Chile.\n\nBecause of their isolation and difficulty of access, there are no human settlements on these islands, but a detachment of the Chilean Navy is stationed on \"Isla San Félix,\" which also hosts the Isla San Felix Airport (ICAO code for the airfield: SCFX).\n\nThe islands were first sighted by Juan Fernández on 6 November 1574 while voyaging from Callao to Valparaíso, and perhaps earlier by Ferdinand Magellan in 1520. Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa wrote in 1579 that \"they are now called after St. Felix and St. Ambor (i.e. Felix and Nabor)\". However, the name of the martyr Ambor (Nabor) became confused with that of the more famous bishop Saint Ambrose (San Ambrosio).\nIt is, probably, one of these islands that Captain John Davis struck one night in 1686. He was able to continue his voyage but erroneously reported the position of the incident.\n\nSan Felix played a part in the Falklands War. In May 1982, the Chilean government allowed RAF Nimrod MR2s to fly maritime reconnaissance sorties from the island, gathering information on the movements of the Argentine Navy.\n\nThe vegetation of the larger islands is a miniature mosaic of matorral, barren rock, various size trees, and shrubs mixed with ferns and perennial herbs. \"Thamnoseris lacerata\" is an endemic shrub species.\n\nThere are no permanent sources of fresh water on any of the islands. Vertebrates inhabiting both of the largest islands are limited to birds. Ten species of marine birds and one land bird species, some of them endangered, make their nests on or visit the islands.\n\nThe Desventuradas Islands, from east to west:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12024683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12024683", "title": "Discovery Investigations", "text": "Discovery Investigations\n\nThe Discovery Investigations were a series of scientific cruises and shore-based investigations into the biology of whales in the Southern Ocean. They were funded by the British Colonial Office and organised by the Discovery Committee in London, which was formed in 1918. They were intended to provide the scientific background to stock management of the commercial Antarctic whale fishery.\nThe work of the Investigations contributed hugely to our knowledge of the whales, the krill they fed on, and the oceanography of their habitat, while charting the local topography, including Atherton Peak. The investigations continued until 1951, with the final report being published in 1980.\n\nShore-based work on South Georgia took place in the marine laboratory, Discovery House, built in 1925 at King Edward Point and occupied until 1931. The scientists lived and worked in the building, travelling half a mile or so across King Edward Cove to the whaling station at Grytviken to work on whales as they were brought ashore by commercial whaling ships.\n\nVessels used were:\n\nResults of the investigations were printed in the Discovery Reports. This was a series of many small reports, published in 38 volumes by the Cambridge University Press, and latterly the Institute of Oceanographic Sciences. Many were printed as individual reports rather than in large volumes.\n\nThe Discovery Investigations are described in the following books, all of which were out of print in 2008:\n\n"}
{"id": "56879891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56879891", "title": "Discovery Seamounts", "text": "Discovery Seamounts\n\nDiscovery Seamounts are a chain of seamounts in the Southern Atlantic Ocean, which include the Discovery Seamount. The seamounts lie east of Gough Island and once rose above sea level. Various volcanic rocks as well as glacial dropstones and sediments have been dredged from the seamounts.\n\nThe Discovery Seamounts appear to be a volcanic seamount chain controlled by the Discovery hotspot, which had its starting point either in the ocean, Cretaceous kimberlite fields in southern Namibia or the Karoo-Ferrar large igneous province. The seamounts formed between 41 and 35 million years ago; presently the hotspot is thought to lie southwest of the seamounts, where there are geological anomalies in the Mid-Atlantic Ridge that may reflect the presence of a neighbouring hotspot.\n\nDiscovery Seamount was discovered in 1936 by the research ship \"RRS Discovery II\" and was originally named Discovery Bank by the crew of a German research ship, RV \"Schwabenland\". The seamount received another name, Discovery Tablemount, in 1963. In 1993 the name \"Discovery Bank\" was transferred by the General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans to another seamount at Kerguelen, leaving the name \"Discovery Seamounts\" for the seamounts.\n\nThe Discovery Seamounts are a group of seamounts east of Gough Island and southwest from Cape Town which extend over an east-west region of over length. The seamounts rise over to depths of and have the shape of guyots; this implies that they formerly rose above sea level, guyots form when islands are eroded to a flat plateau that is then submerged through thermal subsidence of the lithosphere. The shallowest peak reached by a seamount from the group is a depth of , although a depth of has been reported for Discovery Seamount also. These seamounts are also referred to as the Discovery Rise and subdivided into a northwestern and a southeastern trend. \n\nThe largest of these seamounts is named Discovery Seamount, which given its shape might once have been an island. The seamount is covered with fossil-containing sediments, which have been used to infer paleoclimate conditions in the region during the Pleistocene. Some of the sediment appears to be ice-rafted debris, and other evidence has been used to postulate that the seamount subsided by about during the late Pleistocene. Another member of the Discovery Seamounts has been christened Shannon Seamount.\n\nThe crust underneath Discovery Seamount is about 67 million years old, thus of late Cretaceous age. A fracture zone, thus a site of crustal weakness, is located nearby. \n\nThe Southern Atlantic Ocean contains a number of volcanic systems such as the Discovery Seamounts, the Rio Grande Rise, the Shona Ridge and the Walvis Ridge which are commonly attributed to hotspots, although this interpretation has been challenged. The hotspot origin of Discovery and the Walvis-Tristan da Cunha seamount chains was first proposed in 1972. In the case of the Shona Ridge and the Discovery Seamounts, the theory postulates that they formed as the African Plate moved over the Shona hotspot and the Discovery hotspot.\n\nIt is not clear if a Discovery Hotspot exists, nor whether it is linked in any way to Gough Island. The formation of the Discovery Seamounts may instead have been caused by ascent of magma along a fracture zone or other crustal weakness. If the hotspot does exist, it would have to be located southwest of the Discovery Seamounts where low seismic velocity anomalies have been detected in the mantle. The Discovery Seamounts almost wane out in that direction although the it has been proposed that the Little Ridge close to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge may be their continuation. The Discovery Ridge close to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge may be the product of the hotspot as well; magma flowing from the Discovery hotspot to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge may be leading to excessive production of crustal material there.\n\nPetrological anomalies at spreading ridges have been often attributed to the presence of mantle plumes close to the ridge and such has been proposed for the Discovery hotspot as well. There is a region on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge southwest of the seamounts where there are fewer earthquakes than elsewhere along the ridge, the central valley of the ridge is absent and where dredged rocks share geochemical traits with the Discovery Seamount; that may be the location of the Discovery Hotspot. A position about halfway between the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and the Discovery Seamounts has been inferred. The Discovery hotspot may be connected to the Tristan hotspot deep in the mantle.\n\nThe South Atlantic features one of the largest transform faults of Earth, the Agulhas-Falkland fracture zone. This transform fault has an unusual structure on the African Plate, where it displays the Agulhas Ridge, two over high ridge segments which are parallel to each other. This unusual structure may be due to magma from the Discovery hotspot, which would have been channelled to the Agulhas Ridge.\n\nRocks dredged from the seamounts include lavas, pillow lavas and volcaniclastic rocks. Geochemically they are classified as alkali basalt, basalt, phonolite, tephriphonolite trachyandesite, trachybasalt and trachyte. Minerals contained in the rocks include alkali feldspar, apatite, biotite, clinopyroxene, iron and titanium oxides, olivine, plagioclase, sphene and spinel. Continental crust rocks dredged at the seamounts may be glacial dropstones, manganese have also been found.\n\nThe Discovery hotspot appears to have erupted two separate sets of magmas with distinct compositions, similar to the Tristan da Cunha-Gough Island hotspot. The composition of the Discovery Seamounts rocks has been compared to Gough Island. The more felsic rocks at Discovery appear to be derived from magma chamber processes, similar to felsic rocks at other Atlantic Ocean islands.\n\nSoviet fishery during the 1970s and 1980s and others have found 150 fish species at Discovery Seamount. Both Japanese and Soviet trawled the seamounts during that time, but there was no commercial exploitation of the resources. The codling \"Guttigadus nudirostre\" is endemic to Discovery Seamount. Fossil corals have been recovered in dredges.\n\nA number of dates ranging from 41 to 35 million years ago have been obtained on dredged samples from the seamounts on the basis of argon-argon dating, but at Discovery Seamount it may have continued until 7-6.5 million years ago. The age of the seamounts decreases in southwest direction, similar to the Walvis Ridge, and at a similar rate. \n\nUnlike the Walvis Ridge, which is connected to the Etendeka flood basalts, the Discovery Seamounts do not link with onshore volcanic features. However, it has been proposed that the 70-80 million years old Blue Hills, Gibeon and Gross Brukkaros kimberlite fields in southern Namibia may have been formed by the Discovery hotspot, and some plate reconstructions place it underneath the Karoo-Ferrar large igneous province at the time at which it was emplaced.\n\n"}
{"id": "32482632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32482632", "title": "Energy for All", "text": "Energy for All\n\nEnergy for All is the name of an initiative and partnership, both founded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), to reduce energy poverty in Asia and the Pacific. \n\nThe initiative aims to develop approaches for providing access to reliable and affordable energy services, and to scale them up. This includes household access to electricity from renewable energy technologies such as micro-hydro, solar, biomass, and small wind power, as well as access to clean cooking fuel, such as LPG or biogas from livestock manure. The partnership was created to allow entities from different sectors in the region to cooperate. Its stated goal is to provide access to energy to 100 million people in the region by 2015.\n\nThere are currently seven working groups in the partnership.\n\nConvener: SNV Netherlands Development Organisation\nTarget: Deploy 1 million domestic biogas plants for 5 million people and develop sustainable commercial biogas sectors in 15 countries in Asia and the Pacific by 2016. \n\nConvener: The Energy and Resource Institute (TERI)\n\nTarget: Expand access to off-grid lighting solutions for 50 million people by 2015.\n\nConvener: World LP Gas Association\n\nTarget: Expand distribution of LP Gas to remote communities while creating sustainable markets. \n\nConvener: Sustainable Energy Association of Singapore (SEAS)\n\nTarget: Develop clean energy enterprises in the region through public-private partnership models and a network of industry associations, institutions and relevant government bodies.\n\nConvener: Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnership (REEEP)\n\nTarget: Scale up proven models for energy access and disseminate successful approaches throughout the Pacific island countries. \n\nConvener: Korea Wind Energy Industry Association\n\nTarget: Deploy small wind power for electrification and productive use in remote areas in Asia and the Pacific region.\n\n"}
{"id": "25114702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25114702", "title": "Energy in Afghanistan", "text": "Energy in Afghanistan\n\nEnergy in Afghanistan is primarily provided by hydropower. The decades of war have left the country's power grid badly damaged. As of 2012, approximately 33% of the Afghan population had access to electricity and in the capital Kabul, 70% had access to reliable 24-hour electricity. \n\nAccording to Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat (DABS), Afghanistan generates around 300 megawatts (MW) of electricity mainly from hydropower followed by fossil fuel and solar. About 1,000 MW more is imported from neighboring Iran, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan.\n\nAs of 2012, the country currently needs at least 2,000 MW of electricity, and is estimated that it will need around 3,000 MW to meet its needs by 2020. The Afghan National Development Strategy has identified alternative energy, such as wind and solar energy, as a high value power source to develop. As a result, several wind and solar plants have been created, with more currently under development.\n\nHydroelectric plants were built between the 1950s and the mid-1970s, which included the Sarobi hydroelectric power plant in Kabul Province, the Naghlu in the eastern Nangarhar Province, the Kajaki in Helmand Province and a number of others. Other hydroelectric facilities that were operational as of 2002 included plants at Puli Khumri, Darunta in Nangarhar Province, Dahla in Kandahar Province, and one in Mazar-i-Sharif. Also in operation was the Breshna-Kot Dam in Nangarhar, which had a generating capacity of 11.5 MW. Construction of two more power stations, with a combined capacity of 600 kW, was planned in Charikar City.\n\nThe southern region of Afghanistan has been lacking adequate electricity due to problems with the Kajaki power plant in Helmand, which has been damaged and neglected for many years. A third generating turbine was recently added with the assistance of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). This added 16.5 MW to its generating capacity and eventually provide the southern Afghan cities of Kandahar and Lashkar Gah with around 10-hour electricity per day. A number of other water mega dams are being built in different parts of the country, which are mainly for irrigation purposes. Two new dams are under construction in Kunar Province, one of which has the capacity of 1500 MW in Surtak area of the subjected province.\n\nNatural gas reserves were once estimated at 140 billion cubic metres. Production started in 1967 with 342 million cu m but had risen to 2.6 billion cubic metres by 1995. In 1991, a new gas field was discovered in Chekhcha, Jowzjan Province. Natural gas was also produced at Sheberghan and Sar-e Pol. Natural gas was Afghanistan's only economically significant export in 1995, going mainly to Uzbekistan via pipelines from northern Afghanistan, which at the time was controlled by Junbish-i-Milli. As of 2002, other operational gas fields were located at Djarquduk, Khowaja Gogerdak, and Yatimtaq, all in Jowzjan Province. In 2002, natural gas production was 1.77 billion cubic feet.\n\nIn 2012, the leaders of four countries had signed an agreement to build the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) pipeline, expected for completion in 2019.\n\nA very small amount of crude oil is produced at the Angot field in the northern Sar-e Pol Province. Another small oilfield at Zomrad Sai near Sheberghan was reportedly undergoing repairs in mid-2001. Petroleum products such as diesel, gasoline, and jet fuel are imported, mainly from Pakistan and Central Asia nations. A small storage and distribution facility exists in Jalalabad on the highway between Kabul and Peshawar, Pakistan.\n\nAfghanistan is reported to have oil reserves totaling 2.9 billion barrels.\n\nDiscussions on electricity supplies began back in 2006, the Construction of a high voltage transmission line from Uzbekistan to Afghanistan was completed by October 2008. It runs from Kabul through five Afghan provinces towards the country's border with Uzbekistan, and connects to the Uzbek electricity transmission system. It was expected that the project would cost $198 million [USD] the transmission lines were jointly funded by India and the Asian Development Bank. As a result, by early April 2009, all the capital city of Kabul had 24-hour electricity, the increase in power has already made a difference to many ordinary Afghans. By 2011, the 220 kV line form Uzbekistan had a capacity of nearly 300 MW.\n\nThe CASA-1000 project, expected to be completed by the ned of 2018, will provide 300 MW of electricity to Afghanistan, with the remaining 1000 MW going towards Pakistan.\n\nAfghanistan is reported to have coal reserves totalling 100-400 million tons. These mines are located from Badakhshan and extend up to Herat Province. Afghanistan has more than 11 coal reserves which include\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1991, a new 72-collector solar installation was completed in Kabul at a cost of $364 million. The installation heated 40,000 liters of water to an average temperature of 60 °C around the clock. The use of solar power is becoming widespread in Afghanistan. Solar-powered street lights are seen in several Afghan cities and towns, including the capital Kabul. Many villagers in rural parts of the country are also buying solar panels and using them.\n\nIn 2017 a solar power plant was opened in Herat Province. Plants are also under construction in Kandahar Province and Kabul Province, the latter being financed by the Asian Development Bank.\n\nAn area of vast untapped potential lies in the heat energy locked inside the earth in the form of magma or dry, hot rocks. Geothermal energy for electricity generation has been used worldwide for nearly 100 years. The technology currently exists to provide low-cost electricity from Afghanistan’s geothermal resources, which are located in the main axis areas of the Hindu Kush. These run along the Herat fault system, all the way from Herat to the Wakhan corridor in the North.\n\nWith efficient use of the natural resources already abundantly available in Afghanistan, alternative energy sources could be directed into industrial use, supply the energy needs of the nation and build economic self-sufficiency.\n\nThe Helmand Province in southern Afghanistan has uranium reserves, confirmed by Afghan Ministry of Mines.\n\nBesides wind and sun, potential alternative energy sources for Afghanistan include biogas and geothermal energy. \nBiogas plants are fuelled by animal dung, and produce a clean, odourless and smokeless fuel. The digestion process also creates a high-quality fertilizer which can benefit the family farm.\n\nFamily-sized biogas plants require 50 kilograms of manure per day to support the average family. Four to six cows are required to produce this amount of manure, or eight to nine camels, or 50 sheep/goats. Theoretically, Afghanistan has the potential to produce about 1,400 million cubic meters of biogas annually. A quarter of this amount could meet half of Afghanistan’s energy needs, according to a January 2011 report from the United States National Renewable Energy Laboratory.\n\nThe first wind farm was successfully completed in Panjshir Province in 2008, which has the potential to produce 100 kW of energy. United States Agency for International Development has teamed up with the United States National Renewable Energy Laboratory to develop a wind map of Herat province. They have identified approximately 158,000 megawatts of untapped potential wind energy. Installing wind turbine farms in Herat could provide electricity to much of western Afghanistan. Smaller projects are wind pumps that already have been attached to water wells in several Herat villages, along with reservoirs for storing up to 15 cubic meters of water. The 300 KW wind farm in Herat was inaugarated in September 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48058232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48058232", "title": "Energy in Cambodia", "text": "Energy in Cambodia\n\nCambodia had a total primary energy supply (TPES) of 5.48 Mtoe in 2012. Electricity consumption was 3.06 TWh. About one third of the energy came from oil products and about two thirds from biofuels and waste.\n\n"}
{"id": "24356118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24356118", "title": "Engineering Research Center for Collaborative Adaptive Sensing of the Atmosphere", "text": "Engineering Research Center for Collaborative Adaptive Sensing of the Atmosphere\n\nThe Engineering Research Center for Collaborative Adaptive Sensing of the Atmosphere (CASA) is a National Science Foundation Engineering Center. The Center brings together a multidisciplinary group of engineers, computer scientists, meteorologists, sociologists, graduate and undergraduate students, as well as industry and government partners to conduct fundamental research, develop enabling technology, and deploy prototype engineering systems based on a new paradigm: \"Distributed Collaborative Adaptive Sensing\" (DCAS) networks.\n\nCASA was established in 2003 under the National Science Foundation. Beginning in FY 2010, the main source of funding and support came from the Jerome M. Paros Fund for Measurement and Environmental Sciences Research.\n\nCASA is a collaboration among four academic partners: the University of Massachusetts Amherst (lead institution), the University of Oklahoma, Colorado State University, and the University of Puerto Rico. Other collaborating academic institutions are: the University of Delaware, the University of Virginia and McGill University.\n\nCASA initially operated a network of low-power, short-range, X- band, dual-polarized Doppler weather radars in southwestern Oklahoma. The system, known as Integrative Project 1 or IP1 for short, was installed in January 2006 and began operation April 1 of 2006. IP1 is the first CASA test bed to demonstrate DCAS and the value of low-level sensing, and a number of research opportunities will be made available by the system. Since the construction of IP1, two new testbeds have been built and tested - one in Dallas, and one in Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11103881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11103881", "title": "Exhumed river channel", "text": "Exhumed river channel\n\nAn exhumed river channel is a ridge of sandstone that remains when the softer flood plain mudstone is eroded away. The process begins with the deposition of sand within a river channel (typically a meandering river) and mud on the adjacent floodplain. Eventually the channel is abandoned and over time becomes buried by flood deposits from other channels. Because the sand is porous (grain-to-grain contact leaves spaces between), groundwater flows more easily through the sand than through the mud of the floodplain deposits. \nMinerals (typically calcium carbonate) can cement the grains together converting the loose sand into sandstone. Meanwhile, pressure from overlying sediments compresses the floodplain mud converting it to mudstone. Millions of years later, erosion can remove the softer, less cemented mudstone and leave the more resistant sandstone as a sinuous ridge. Thus, an exhumed river channel is a form of inverted relief: what was previously low is now high, and vice versa. Exhumed channels are important indicators for ancient stream flow direction.\n\nSome of the best examples of exhumed river channels occur in the Ruby Ranch Member of the Cretaceous Cedar Mountain Formation southwest of Green River, Utah. Within the Cedar Mountain Formation in this part of Utah, fluvial sandstones filling paleochannels within it are cemented by calcium carbonate. Because of this cementation, the sandstone filling these paleochannels are considerably more resistant to erosion than the shale and mudstone that enclose them. As a result, differential erosion preferentially removes the shale and mudstone and exposes these paleochannels as ridges.\n"}
{"id": "50512532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50512532", "title": "Fixed-point ocean observatory", "text": "Fixed-point ocean observatory\n\nA fixed-point ocean observatory is an autonomous system of automatic sensors and samplers that continuously gathers data from deep sea, water column and lower atmosphere, and transmits the data to shore in real or near real-time.\n\nFixed-point ocean observatories are typically composed of a cable anchored to the sea floor to which several automatic sensors and samplers are attached. The cable ends with a buoy at the ocean surface that may have some more sensors attached. Most observatories have communicating buoys that transmit data to shore, and which allow changes to the acquisition method of the sensors, as required.\n\nThese unmanned platforms can be linked via a cable to the shore transmitting data via an internet connection, or they can transmit data to relay buoys which are able to provide a satellite link to the shore.\n\nA typical multi-disciplinary observatory is equipped with sensors and instruments to measure physical and biogeochemical variables along the water column. Additionally the surface buoy can hold several sensors measuring atmospheric parameters at sea level. \nMain measured variables:\n\nIn order to do so, typically the ocean observatories are equipped with instruments like:\n\nOcean observatories can collect data for different purposes from scientific research to environmental monitoring for marine operations or governance for the benefit of economy and society as a whole.\nOcean observatories provide real-time, or near real time data allowing to detect changes as they happen, such as geo-hazards for example. Furthermore continuous time series data allow to investigate interannual-to-decadal changes and to capture episodic events, changes in ocean circulation, water properties, water mass formation and ecosystems, to quantify air-sea fluxes, and to analyse the role of the oceans for the climate.\n\nThe data collected by the several ocean observatories around the globe on the sub-sea-floor, seafloor, and water column, allows to improve our knowledge of the ocean including:\nMoreover networks of ocean observatories can also be used to input data into global ocean models and to calibrate them thus allowing for the investigation of future changes in ocean circulation and ecosystems.\n\n"}
{"id": "3040812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3040812", "title": "George F. Emmons", "text": "George F. Emmons\n\nGeorge Foster Emmons (August 23, 1811 – July 23, 1884) was a rear admiral of the United States Navy, who served in the early to mid 19th century.\n\nHe was born in Clarendon, Vermont on August 23, 1811. Emmons began his distinguished career as a midshipman on April 1, 1828. \n\nAs a lieutenant aboard the he participated in the Wilkes Exploring Expedition of 1838 to 1842, which discovered the Antarctic Continent, and throughout the South Seas.\n\nHe was assigned command of the expedition's overland party conducting surveys and exploration from Puget Sound south to San Francisco. He served with great honor in the Mexican and Civil Wars. As commander of the from 1867 to 1868, he carried to Alaska the commissioners who took formal possession for the United States. He became commodore in 1868, chief of the Hydrographic Office in 1870, and rear admiral in 1872. As a Rear Admiral, he commanded the Philadelphia Navy Yard until his retirement in 1873. Rear Admiral Emmons died in Princeton, New Jersey on July 23, 1884 at the age of 82. He is buried in Green Mount Cemetery, Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nIn 1941, the was named in his honor.\n"}
{"id": "14832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14832", "title": "Intergovernmental organization", "text": "Intergovernmental organization\n\nAn intergovernmental organization or international governmental organisation (IGO) is an organization composed primarily of sovereign states (referred to as \"member states\"), or of other intergovernmental organizations. Intergovernmental organizations are called international organizations, although that term may also include international non-governmental organization such as international nonprofit organizations or multinational corporations.\nIntergovernmental organizations are an important aspect of public international law. IGOs are established by a treaty that acts as a charter creating the group. Treaties are formed when lawful representatives (governments) of several states go through a ratification process, providing the IGO with an international legal personality.\n\nIntergovernmental organizations in a legal sense should be distinguished from simple groupings or coalitions of states, such as the G8 or the Quartet. Such groups or associations have not been founded by a constituent document and exist only as task groups.\n\nIntergovernmental organizations must also be distinguished from treaties. Many treaties (such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, or the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade before the establishment of the World Trade Organization) do not establish an organization and instead rely purely on the parties for their administration becoming legally recognized as an \"ad hoc\" commission. Other treaties have established an administrative apparatus which was not deemed to have been granted international legal personality.\n\nIntergovernmental organizations differ in function, membership, and membership criteria. They have various goals and scopes, often outlined in the treaty or charter. Some IGOs developed to fulfill a need for a neutral forum for debate or negotiation to resolve disputes. Others developed to carry out mutual interests with unified aims to preserve peace through conflict resolution and better international relations, promote international cooperation on matters such as environmental protection, to promote human rights, to promote social development (education, health care), to render humanitarian aid, and to economic development. Some are more general in scope (the United Nations) while others may have subject-specific missions (such as Interpol or the International Organization for Standardization and other standards organizations). Common types include:\n\nOrganization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).\n\nMission\n\n\nMembership\n\n193 Member States. Membership is \"...open to all other peace-loving states which accept the obligations contained in the present Charter and, in the judgment of the Organization, are able and willing to carry out these obligations.\"\n\nMission\n\n\"The Parties to this Treaty reaffirm their faith in the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and their desire to live in peace with all people and all governments. They are determined to safeguard the freedom, common heritage and civilization of their peoples, founded on the principles of democracy, individual liberty and the rule of law. They seek to promote stability and well-being in the North Atlantic area.\nThey are resolved to unite their efforts for collective defense and for the preservation of peace and security. They therefore agree to this North Atlantic Treaty.\"\n\nMembership\n\n\"NATO is an Alliance that consists of 29 independent member countries.\"\n\nMission\n\n\nMission\n\nThe Islamic Development Bank is an international financial institution established in pursuance of the Declaration of Intent issued by the Conference of Finance Ministers of Muslim Countries held in Jeddah in Dhul Q'adah 1393H, corresponding to December 1973. The Inaugural Meeting of the Board of Governors took place in Rajab 1395H, corresponding to July 1975, and the Bank was formally opened on 15 Shawwal 1395H corresponding to 20 October 1975. \n\nMembership\n\n188 member countries made up of government-owned organizations.\n\nINBAR evolved from an informal network of bamboo and rattan researchers set up in 1984 by the International Development Research Centre (IDRC) of Canada. In 1993 the network was formalized under its present name, but remained a project of IDRC. Work to launch INBAR as an independent organization started in 1995, and was completed in 1997 when INBAR became an independent organization with its headquarters in Beijing, China – the first intergovernmental organization to be headquartered in the People's Republic.\nMembership and structure\n\nMembership\n\n42 member countries make up this organisation.\n\nWhile treaties, alliances, and multilateral conferences had existed for centuries, IGOs only began to be established in the 19th century. Among the first were the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine, initiated in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars, and the International Telegraph Union (the future International Telecommunication Union), which was founded by the signing of the International Telegraph Convention by 20 countries in May 1865. Of notable significance was the emergence of the League of Nations following World War One, designed as an institution to foster collective security in order to sustain peace.\n\nHeld and McGrew (2002) counted thousands of IGOs worldwide, and this number continues to rise. This increase may be attributed to globalization, which increases and encourages the cooperation among and within states. Globalization has also provided easier means for IGO growth, as a result of increased international relations. This is seen economically, politically, militarily, as well as on the domestic level. Economically, IGOs gain material and non-material resources for economic prosperity. IGOs also provide more political stability within the state and among differing states. Military alliances are also formed by establishing common standards in order to ensure security of the members to ward off outside threats. Lastly, the formation has encouraged autocratic states to develop into democracies in order to form an effective and internal government.\n\nThere are several different reasons a state may choose membership in an intergovernmental organization. But there are also reasons membership may be rejected. These reasons are explored in the sections below.\n\nReasons for participation:\nReasons for rejecting membership:\n\nIntergovernmental organizations are provided with privileges and immunities that are intended to ensure their independent and effective functioning. They are specified in the treaties that give rise to the organization (such as the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations and the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court), which are normally supplemented by further multinational agreements and national regulations (for example the International Organizations Immunities Act in the United States). The organizations are thereby immune from the jurisdiction of national courts.\n\nRather than by national jurisdiction, legal accountability is intended to be ensured by legal mechanisms that are internal to the intergovernmental organization itself and access to administrative tribunals. In the course of many court cases where private parties tried to pursue claims against international organizations, there has been a gradual realization that alternate means of dispute settlement are required, as states have fundamental human rights obligations to provide plaintiffs with access to court in view of their right to a fair trial. Otherwise, the organizations' immunities may be put in question in national and international courts. Some organizations hold proceedings before tribunals relating to their organization to be confidential, and in some instances have threatened disciplinary action should an employee disclose any of the relevant information. Such confidentiality has been criticized as a lack of transparency.\n\nThe immunities also extend to employment law. In this regard, immunity from national jurisdiction necessitates that reasonable alternative means are available to effectively protect employees' rights; in this context, a first instance Dutch court considered an estimated duration of proceedings before the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organization of 15 years to be too long.\n\nThese are some of the strengths and weaknesses of IGOs:\n\nStrengths:\n\nWeaknesses:\n\nThey can be deemed unfair as countries with a higher percentage voting power have the right to veto any decision that is not in their favor, leaving the smaller countries powerless.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45639598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45639598", "title": "International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control", "text": "International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control\n\nThe International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on greenhouse gas control. It is published by Elsevier and the editor-in-chief is John Gale. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2013 impact factor of 3.821,\n\n"}
{"id": "8717917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8717917", "title": "List of Banksia ser. Dryandra species", "text": "List of Banksia ser. Dryandra species\n\n\"B.\" ser. \"Dryandra\" is a large series in the plant genus \"Banksia\". It was treated at genus rank until 2007, when Austin Mast and Kevin Thiele transferred it into \"Banksia\" as a series within \"B.\" subg. \"Banksia\".\n\nBefore 2007, 94 \"Dryandra\" species were recognised. In the transfer into \"Banksia\", \"D. prionotes\" was overlooked, and \"B. subulata\" (Awled Honeypot) was transferred \"incertae sedis\" rather than in \"B.\" ser. \"Dryandra\". \"D. prionotes\" has since been transferred into \"Banksia\" as \"Banksia prionophylla\", but it was not explicitly placed in \"B.\" ser. \"Dryandra\". The series therefore now consists of 92 species.\n\nThis is a list of \"Banksia\" ser. \"Dryandra\" species:\n\nPrior to the 2007 transfer into \"Banksia\", a number of rich infrageneric arrangements of \"Dryandra\" had been published; see:\n"}
{"id": "5856495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5856495", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Cornwall", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Cornwall\n\nThere are 167 Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Cornwall (including the Isles of Scilly). Cornwall, in the south-west of England, UK, has a population of () across an area of , making it one of the least densely populated counties within England. The north coast of Cornwall falls on the Celtic Sea in the Atlantic Ocean, which also surrounds the Isles of Scilly, the south coast falls on the English Channel and the county is bounded by the River Tamar, forming the border with Devon, to the east. Cornish geology consists mainly of rocks from the Devonian and Carboniferous geological periods. Granite forms a large part of these, with mineralisations of tin, copper, lead and arsenic having been mined in the area. This gives rise to many distinct habitats, with strong marine influences, including sand dunes, rocky reefs, stacks and headlands as well as heathland, moorland and unusual river profiles.\n\nIn England the body responsible for designating SSSIs is Natural England, which chooses a site \"because of its flora, fauna, or geological or physiographical features\". Natural England took over the role of designating and managing SSSIs from English Nature in October 2006 when it was formed from the amalgamation of English Nature, parts of the Countryside Agency and the Rural Development Service. Natural England, like its predecessor, uses the 1974–96 county system and as such the same approach is followed here, rather than adopting the current local government or ceremonial county boundaries.\n\nOf the 167 sites designated in this Area of Search, the greatest number, 81, have been designated due to their biological interest, with 54 due to their geological interest and 32 for both. The data in the table is taken from English Nature in the form of citation sheets for each SSSI.\n\n"}
{"id": "37652599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37652599", "title": "List of animals in Japan", "text": "List of animals in Japan\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54724120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54724120", "title": "List of ecoregions in Italy", "text": "List of ecoregions in Italy\n\nTemperate coniferous forests\n\nTemperate broadleaf and mixed forests\n\nMediterranean forests, woodlands, and shrub\n"}
{"id": "20292385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20292385", "title": "List of mountains of Tajikistan", "text": "List of mountains of Tajikistan\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49513886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49513886", "title": "List of proposed National Monuments of the United States", "text": "List of proposed National Monuments of the United States\n\nThe President of the United States can establish a national monument by presidential proclamation, and the United States Congress can by legislation. The Antiquities Act of 1906 authorized the president to proclaim \"historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific interest\" as national monuments.\nIn a 2010 \"Not for Release\" - memorandum by the United States Department of the Interior 14 areas were listed in the \"Prospective Conservation Designation\" attachment as \"good candidates for National Monument designation under the Antiquities Act\". These areas are included in the list of proposed National Monuments in the next section and marked with a blue-green background.\n\nIn subsequent attachments in the same draft \"areas worthy of protection that are ineligible for Monument Designation and unlikely to receive legislative protection in the nearm term\" and \"cost estimates\" of \"high priority land-rationalization efforts\" were listed.\n\nSome areas have been proposed as a National Monument earlier, but are no longer eligible to be listed above, because they are protected somehow now, e.g. as National Monument, National Park or Wilderness Area in the National Wilderness Preservation System. Some reasons for nevertheless keeping them in the following list might be:\n"}
{"id": "2096869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096869", "title": "List of rivers of Bangladesh", "text": "List of rivers of Bangladesh\n\nBangladesh is a riverine (bn :- nodimatrika)[নদীমাতৃক] country. About 700 rivers including tributaries flow through the country constituting a waterway of total length around . Most of the country's land is formed through silt brought by the rivers.Bangladesh geography & culture is influenced by the riverine delta system .Bangladesh lies in the Biggest river delta of the world - The Ganges Delta system.\n\nFollowing is a list of some of the major rivers of Bangladesh:\n\n\nMuch of Bangladesh's geography is dominated by the Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta, but the term \"Ganges\" is not widely used for the larger river's main distributary within Bangladesh. Where it flows out of India, the Ganges' main channel becomes the Padma River. Similarly, below its confluence with the Teesta River, the main channel of the Brahmaputra River is known as the Jamuna River.\n\nThere are quite a few rivers in the district of Bogura. Taking the Karatoya as the central dividing water-channel of the district, the other rivers may be classified into the eastern and the Western systems. The course of all the rivers is, with such allowances as must be made for beds and windings, nearly uniform north and south. The eastern rivers are Monas, Charkadaha and Khamati besides a few other smaller ones. Through the khiar tracts in the western parts of the district flow the Nagar, the Tulshiganga, Nagar and other minor streams. All the western rivers are the tributaries of the Atrai which itself flows into the Jamuna north of the confluence of that river with the Ganges (padma) at Goalunda.\n\nEvidences show that the rivers Karatoya and Nagar have changed their courses in the past, while the Jamuna, lying on the eastern boundary of the district, is in fact a new channel of the Brahmaputra. A very small river, Tarai used to occupy more or\nless the present location of the Jamuna. At that time the Brahmaputra used to flow to the east round the foot of the Garo Hills. The earliest evidence of the Brahmaputra river consists of a group of large Brahmaputra-size river scars which extend into the Sylhet basin flanking the southern edge of the Shillong plateau . The main river apparently extended east beyond this locality and then swung south into the Bay of Bengal. By the time of Rennell's mapping, this course had been abandoned in favour of a shorter route down what is still called the old Brahmaputra river past Mymensingh.\n\nBy the early 1770s the major diversion of the Brahmaputra into its present channel, west of the Madhupur jungle, had occurred. There is no complete agreement as to when this diversion down the Jenai river of Rennell occurred. Apparently by 1830 the diversion of low-river flow down the new channel was complete.\n\n\n\nThe rivers of the former Nadia district, of which Kushtia District was a part, were grouped together and known as \"Nadia Rivers\" because of the peculiar condition of the Nadia district and special measures taken by the government to keep them flowing. All the rivers of the former Nadia district (and of the present Kushtia District) were offshoots of the Padma (lower Ganges). But at one time when the Ganges found its way to the sea along the course of the Bhagirathi, there must have been some earlier streams to carry the drainage of the Darjeeling-Himalayas to the sea. Bhairab is said to be one of those streams. Later the Ganges drifted to the east and the Padma grew mighty, taking all the drainage of northern and upper Bengal.\n\n\nThe Jamuna, nowhere less than 4 miles wide duriug rains, is running in the west and the equally important Meghna encloses the district on the east. They are connected by the old channel of the Brahmaputra running through the centre of the district in a south-easterly direction from above Bahadurabad up to Bhairab Bazar.\n\n\nThe district of Noakhali is not intersected by so many rivers as the other deltaic districts of Bangladesh. On the west and south of the district and between the islands flows the Meghna with all its bifurcations each of which is much bigger than an ordinary river, and on the east the Feni subdivision is drained by the great and little Feni rivers. In the intervening country there are no rivers of any size and the drainage there depends on a few tidal channels or khals, of which the principal are the Noakhali khal, the Mahendra Khal and the Bhowaniganj Khal.\n\nIn sharp contrast with the mainland to its south, there is a network of khals in the islands. As one advances from the older formation of chars towards the newer ones, the number of khals gradually increases. The khals gradually silt up, but where diluvion goes on, new khals come into existence and the old ones become wider and wider.\n\n\nThe district is intersected by rivers of varying magnitude. But in fact, the river system is constituted by the Padma and the Jamuna with their interlacing offshoots and tributaries. Besides these flowing streams, the interior is visited by the abandoned beds of old rivers, most of which are dry except in the rains.\n\nThe general trend of the drainage of the Serajganj subdivision is from north-west to south-east, the rivers entering it from the north-west flow into the Jamuna after a tortuous course. In the Sadar subdivision, however, the general slope of the country is from west to east, and the main rivers fall into the Hurasagar, a tributary of the Jamuna.\n\n\nExcepting the Ganges or the Padma, the Mahananda and the Atrai, the rivers of Rajshahi district are of little hydrographic importance. For, most of the rivers are more or less moribund, that is, they are not active flowing streams except\nduring the rainy season. During the rainy season these moribund rivers act as excellent drainage channels draining off\na large volume of water and have a considerable current. Most of these rivers are narrow and flow in well-defined channels.\n\n\nTangail District is flanked on the west by the mighty river Jamuna, which is nowhere less than 4 miles wide during the rainy season. The Dhaleshwari, first an old channel of the Ganges and then of the Brahmaputra, cuts across the south-western corner of the district on its powerful sweep to join the Meghna near Narayanganj. The old name of Dhaleshwari was \"Gajghata\". It used to flow afterwards by the Salimabad Channel and then at last by Porabari Channel. A part of the eastern boundary of the district runs close to the Banar River. The river Bangshi flows almost down the middle of the district, branching out from the old Brahmaputta to the north from near Jamalpur. Bangshi falls into Dhaleswari near Savar, in Dhaka district. The Bangshi forms a natural barrier to the Madhupur Jungle on the Tangail side, all the way from Madhupur to Mirzapur. It is fordable at only two or three places near Basail on its my to river Meghna. Dhaleswari itself however takes out from the Jamuna from inside Tangail district.\n\nAmong other important rivers of the district, Lohajang is worth mentioning. It flows past the district headquarters of Tangail and is almost dead at present (in moribund condition). Other rivers are Khiru, Nanglai, Atia, and Jhinai. The old Brahmaputra's most important offshoot is the Jhinai; striking off near Jamalpur it rejoins the Jamuna north of Sarishabari, while another branch flows past Gopalpur. Now these sub-systems of rivers, viz, Bangshi and Banar, and the Lohajang, Khiru, Nangtai, Atia and Jhinai are all dying out because of the shift of the old Brahmaputra river from its former channel to the present Jamuna channel.\n\nThe most important question in connection with the river system of Tangail vis-a-vis Mymensingh district is when and why the Brahmaputra River changed its main old channel. During the last 150 years or so, this diversion of the old Brahmaputra to its present Jamuna channel has considerably prompted the geographers and geologists to enquire deep into it. Two theories are advanced: As explanation of the diversion, one theory describes the gradua1 uplift of the Madhupur Tract and a final trigger action of the Teesta diversion in 1787 as the chief factor; and the other theory states that the Brahmaputra diversion resulted directly from a major increase in its volume of water due to beheading of the Tsangpo river of Tibet by Dihang, a tributary of the then small Brahmaputral. It has now been proved that the great Tibetan river Tsangpo joined the Brahmaputra about 1780 and this accession was more important than the Teesta floods in deciding the Brahmaputra to try a shorter way to the sea.\n\nWith the help of Major James Rennell's maps (1764 to 1773) and of the Revenue Survey it is possible to reconstruct the history of the Bengal Delta and its river systems. It was Rennell who carried out the first ever accurate cadestral surveys and laid the basis for the geographical study of Bengal. At the end of the 18th century, probably as a result of the great Tista floods in 1787, the Brahmaputra changed its course and joined the Padma at Goulundo. No piece-meal study of an intricate river system is possible, without distortion and inadequacy.\n\nEven though we assume that the change in the course of the main waters of the old Brahmaputra took place suddenly in 1787, the year of the famous flooding of the Teesta river, the Teesta has been always a wandering river, sometimes joining the Ganges, sometimes being shifted oastwards by the superior strength of the river Ganges and forced to join the Brahmaputra at last.\n\nWhatever might have been the cause, by 1830, the diversion of old Brahmaputra was complete, ushering in a gradual but radical change in the river system of the Tangail district. The old channel of the Brahmaputra had been reduced to its present insignificance.\n\nIn 1850 Sir Joseph Hooker wrote \"we are surprised to hear that within the last 20 years the main channel of Brahmaputra had shifted its course westwards, its eastern channel silted up so rapidly that the Jamuna eventually became the principal stream.\n\n"}
{"id": "36347431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36347431", "title": "List of rivers of Guinea", "text": "List of rivers of Guinea\n\nThis is a list of rivers in Guinea. This list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591873", "title": "List of stars in Triangulum", "text": "List of stars in Triangulum\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Triangulum, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6710976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6710976", "title": "Llandovery epoch", "text": "Llandovery epoch\n\nIn the geological timescale, the Llandovery epoch (from 443.7 ± 1.5 million years ago to 428.2 ± 2.3 million years ago) occurred during the Silurian period. The epoch follows the massive Ordovician-Silurian extinction events; the second largest extinction event after the Permian-Triassic extinction event million of years later.\n\nThe epoch was named after Llandovery in Wales.\n\nThe Llandovery epoch is subdivided into three stages: Rhuddanian, Aeronian and Telychian.\n\n"}
{"id": "12731362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12731362", "title": "Lone Star Dinosaurs", "text": "Lone Star Dinosaurs\n\nLone Star Dinosaurs is a book written by Louis L. Jacobs and published in 1995. It concerns the history of dinosaurs in Texas and the people who found their remains. Most of the dinosaurs in the book are from the Cretaceous age and a few of the dinosaurs include \"Pleurocoelus\", \"Alamosaurus\", \"Tenontosaurus\", \"Tyrannosaurus rex\", and the pterosaur \"Quetzalcoatlus\". The stories within the book were compiled directly from the people who found the fossils.\n\nJudyth Rigler of the \"San Antonio Express-News\" called it a \"visually stunning novel\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044352", "title": "Marvin Creamer", "text": "Marvin Creamer\n\nMarvin Creamer (born January 24, 1916) is a former college professor and amateur American sailor noted for having sailed around the globe without the aid of navigational instruments. Between December, 21, 1982, and May 17, 1984, Creamer and the crew of his 36-foot boat, \"Globe Star\", circumnavigated the globe without a compass, sextant, watch, or other instruments. The ship spent 510 days at sea. As general guides, Creamer observed the sun and stars, currents, and occasionally the regional biological setting. In honor of his voyage, Rowan University created the Marvin Creamer Scholarship Fund. He turned 100 in January 2016.\n\nCreamer was born in Vineland, New Jersey, and taught Geography at Glassboro State College from 1948 until 1977. He has three children, six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. He was married to Blanche Creamer for 59 years until her death in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "10348500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10348500", "title": "Material flow management", "text": "Material flow management\n\nMaterial flow management (MFM) is a method of efficiently managing materials.\n\n\"Material flow management is the goal oriented, efficient use of materials, material streams and energy. The goals are given by ecological and economical areas and by observing social aspects.\" (in \"Protection of human beings and environment\", by an Enquete Commission of the German Bundestag)\n\nThis triple jump of environmental, social and economical orientation makes MFM a tool of high importance in the field of sustainable development (SD) and circular economy (CE). \nSeen historically, material flow management is a relatively new tool that can be understood as an implementation-orientated advancement of the methodology of material flow analysis (MFA). MFM was established as a policy tool after the UN conference in Rio de Janeiro 1992. The German \"Bundestag\" outlined the targets and specific goals of MFM in a special report by an Enquete Commission.\n"}
{"id": "17129374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17129374", "title": "Mean of Platts Singapore", "text": "Mean of Platts Singapore\n\nMOPS (short for the Mean of Platts Singapore) is the average of a set of Singapore-based oil product price assessments published by Platts, a global energy, petrochemicals, metals and agriculture information provider and a division of McGraw Hill Financial.\n\nThe Platts assessment process determines the value of physical commodities 15–30 days forward for many oil products loading in Singapore.\n\nMOPS is an acronym that stands for the Mean of Platts Singapore, and typically refers to any contract mechanism that derives its value by referencing the average of a set of Singapore-based oil price assessments published by Platts. The time frame can be over a week, a month, or any agreed period of time.\n"}
{"id": "1534483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1534483", "title": "Motion estimation", "text": "Motion estimation\n\nMotion estimation is the process of determining motion vectors that describe the transformation from one 2D image to another; usually from adjacent frames in a video sequence. It is an ill-posed problem as the motion is in three dimensions but the images are a projection of the 3D scene onto a 2D plane. The motion vectors may relate to the whole image (global motion estimation) or specific parts, such as rectangular blocks, arbitrary shaped patches or even per pixel. The motion vectors may be represented by a translational model or many other models that can approximate the motion of a real video camera, such as rotation and translation in all three dimensions and zoom.\n\nMore often than not, the term motion estimation and the term optical flow are used interchangeably. It is also related in concept to image registration and stereo correspondence. In fact all of these terms refer to the process of finding corresponding points between two images or video frames. The points that correspond to each other in two views (images or frames) of a real scene or object are \"usually\" the same point in that scene or on that object. Before we do motion estimation, we must define our measurement of correspondence, i.e., the matching metric, which is a measurement of how similar two image points are. There is no right or wrong here; the choice of matching metric is usually related to what the final estimated motion is used for as well as the optimisation strategy in the estimation process.\n\nThe methods for finding motion vectors can be categorised into pixel based methods (\"direct\") and feature based methods (\"indirect\"). A famous debate resulted in two papers from the opposing factions being produced to try to establish a conclusion.\n\n\n\"Indirect methods\" use features, such as corner detection, and match corresponding features between frames, usually with a statistical function applied over a local or global area. The purpose of the statistical function is to remove matches that do not correspond to the actual motion.\n\nStatistical functions that have been successfully used include RANSAC.\n\nIt can be argued that almost all methods require some kind of definition of the matching criteria. The difference is only whether you summarise over a local image region first and then compare the summarisation (such as feature based methods), or you compare each pixel first (such as squaring the difference) and then summarise over a local image region (block base motion and filter based motion). An emerging type of matching criteria summarises a local image region first for every pixel location (through some feature transform such as Laplacian transform), compares each summarised pixel and summarises over a local image region again. Some matching criteria has the ability to exclude points that does not actually correspond to each other albeit producing a good matching score, others does not have this ability, but they are still matching criteria.\n\nApplying the motion vectors to an image to synthesize the transformation to the next image is called motion compensation. As a way of exploiting temporal redundancy, motion estimation and compensation are key parts of video compression. Almost all video coding standards use block-based motion estimation and compensation such as the MPEG series including the most recent HEVC.\n\n"}
{"id": "58377746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58377746", "title": "Path of the Puma: The Remarkable Resilience of the Mountain Lion", "text": "Path of the Puma: The Remarkable Resilience of the Mountain Lion\n\nPath of the Puma: The Remarkable Resilience of the Mountain Lion, by Jim Williams, is a non-fiction book presenting the research of the author, a wildlife biologist and supervisor for Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks' Region 1 in Kalispell. Williams also discusses DNA research conducted by others on these animals, and makes the case for coexistence with these big, wild cats\n\nWith a foreword by Doug Chadwick, the book chronicles Williams' journey, from his early work at a Florida marine park, to his conversion to \"a lifelong devotee of the species\". Williams has fitted pumas (also known as cougars and mountain lions) with radio collars and has installed cameras in their caves to track and study them. \"Publishers Weekly\" wrote, \"Montana-based wildlife biologist Jim Williams celebrates wildlife research and conservation of ghost cats from Canada’s Yukon Territory to Tierra del Fuego in Argentina and Chile...\"\n\n\"Path of the Puma\" has received positive reviews. \"Publishers Weekly\" said, \"Williams writes movingly of the challenges these animals face, many due to human encroachment on their habitats. He makes a strong case for the necessity of preserving—or at least peacefully coexisting with—the puma.\" \"Kirkus Reviews\" noted, \"While the book is an undisguised conservationist’s plea ... it is not a harangue. The author’s passion and his firsthand knowledge of his subject make the narrative highly readable. A noteworthy feature of this work is the presence of numerous full-color photographs...\" Kirkus concluded, \"A handsome book that is well-balanced, instructive, and authoritative.\" The Natural History Book Service wrote that the puma's story, \"...is fascinating for the lessons it can afford the protection of all species in times of dire challenge and decline.\"\n\nSusan Waggoner of PressReader notes Williams' \"...enthusiasm for nature and animals jumps off every page... Williams’s writing is expert, friendly, and interesting. Well organized and clearly presented, information emerges from field work examples, such as the tracking studies that showed that pumas feed almost exclusively on wild prey rather than domestic herds.\" Tristan Scott of the Flathead Beacon wrote, \"\"Path of the Puma\" doesn’t sugarcoat the risks of predators living among humans — mountain lions live at the intersection of human landscapes, livelihoods and lifestyles — but it points out the critical role predatory species play in the natural world.\"\n"}
{"id": "2588118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2588118", "title": "Petrocaribe", "text": "Petrocaribe\n\nPetrocaribe is an oil alliance of many Caribbean states with Venezuela to purchase oil on conditions of preferential payment. The alliance was launched on 29 June 2005 in Puerto La Cruz, Venezuela. In 2013 Petrocaribe agreed links with the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas (ALBA), to go beyond oil and promote economic cooperation.\n\nThe agreement was initiated with the aim of having solidarity with other countries in accordance with ALBA. The payment system allows for purchase of oil at market value for 5%-50% up front with a grace period of one to two years; the remainder can be paid through a 17-25 year financing agreement with 1% interest if oil prices are above US$40 per barrel. The agreement builds on payment terms from the San Jose Agreement and the Caracas Energy Accord. Energy and Petroleum Minister and President of PDVSA Rafael Ramírez said of the deal that it seeks to cut out the middleman in such transactions: \"We're not talking about discounts...We're talking about financial facilities, direct deliveries of products, [and] infrastructure.\"\n\nThere are a total of 17 members; 12 of the members are from the 15 member CARICOM (excluding, Barbados, Montserrat and Trinidad and Tobago). At the first summit, 14 countries joined the alliance. These were: Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Belize, Cuba, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St Lucia, St Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname and Venezuela. At the third summit, Haití and Nicaragua joined the union. Guatemala joined in July 2008 but left the organization in November 2013 stating that Venezuela had not provided them with the ultra-low financing rates that they had been promised.\n\nHaiti had not been initially invited to the talks, since Venezuela did not recognize its then post-Jean-Bertrand Aristide government. The country finally joined the alliance in April 2006, once the newly elected president René Préval took office. Honduras became the 17th member of the alliance in December 2007, under President Manuel Zelaya but left the organization after the 2009 coup d'état and later rejoined it on May 2012. Belize set up the Belize Petroleum Energy Company to coordinate for the project.\n\nBarbados denied that it had succumbed to pressure from the United States, who had a strained relationship with Venezuela, as the reason, but has not ruled out agreeing to Petrocaribe in the future. On August 31, 2005, Energy Minister Anthony Wood said that they are weighing options over signing Petrocaribe. In April 2011 Hugo Chávez renewed his offer for Barbados to join PetroCaribe.\n\nPanama applied for membership on March 3, 2009 and initially said it would continue to join PetroCaribe under the new president, but Panama remains a non-member.\n\nThe first summit, which launched the project was held in Puerto La Cruz, Venezuela. The second summit of Petrocaribe was held in Montego Bay, Jamaica. The third summit was held in Caracas, Venezuela and the fourth summit was held in Cienfuegos, Cuba in December 2007. Seventh summit was held in Caracas, at 6 April 2013. Honduras membership was revived after suspension because of coup in 2009 and Guatemala became official new member of Petrocaribe. Summit also propose deeper cooperation between Petrocaribe states and states of ALBA on basis of new economic zone. Summit had discussion also about tourism, air traffic and food security.The 11th Summit was hosted by Haiti in Port-au-Prince by the invitation of the Martelly/Lamothe administration, and they are to be judge for corruption , was the first Petrocaribe Summit .The funds were not well used but they were diverted by the Lamothe Martelly government and they must be judged according to justice .The death of former Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez who started the Petrocaribe economic initiative after his death from cancer related illnesses. The Venezuelan delegation included his successor President Maduro who agrees to continue the programs of former President Hugo Chávez. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2272102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2272102", "title": "Protoplanetary nebula", "text": "Protoplanetary nebula\n\nA protoplanetary nebula or preplanetary nebula (PPN) is an astronomical object which is at the short-lived episode during a star's rapid evolution between the late asymptotic giant branch (LAGB) phase and the subsequent planetary nebula (PN) phase. A PPN emits strongly in infrared radiation, and is a kind of reflection nebula. It is the second-from-the-last high-luminosity evolution phase in the life cycle of intermediate-mass stars (1–8 ). \n\nThe name protoplanetary nebula is an unfortunate choice due to the possibility of confusion with the same term being sometimes employed when discussing the unrelated concept of protoplanetary disks. The name protoplanetary nebula is a consequence of the older term planetary nebula, which was chosen due to early astronomers looking through telescopes and finding a similarity in appearance of planetary nebula to the gas giants such as Neptune and Uranus. To avoid any possible confusion, suggests employing a new term preplanetary nebula which does not overlap with any other disciplines of astronomy. They are often referred to as post-AGB stars, although that category also includes stars that will never ionize their ejected matter.\n\nDuring the late asymptotic giant branch (LAGB) phase, when mass loss reduces the hydrogen envelope's mass to around 10  for a core mass of 0.60 , a star will begin to evolve towards the blue side of the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram. When the hydrogen envelope has been further reduced to around 10 , the envelope will have been so disrupted that it is believed further significant mass loss is not possible. At this point, the effective temperature of the star, \"T\", will be around 5,000 K and it is defined to be the end of the LAGB and the beginning of the PPN. \n\nDuring the ensuing protoplanetary nebula phase, the central star's effective temperature will continue rising as a result of the envelope's mass loss as a consequence of the hydrogen shell's burning. During this phase, the central star is still too cool to ionize the slow-moving circumstellar shell ejected during the preceding AGB phase. However, the star does appear to drive high-velocity, collimated winds which shape and shock this shell, and almost certainly entrain slow-moving AGB ejecta to produce a fast molecular wind. Observations and high-resolution imaging studies from 1998 to 2001, demonstrate that the rapidly evolving PPN phase ultimately shapes the morphology of the subsequent PN. At a point during or soon after the AGB envelope detachment, the envelope shape changes from roughly spherically symmetric to axially symmetric. The resultant morphologies are bipolar, knotty jets and Herbig–Haro-like \"bow shocks\". These shapes appear even in relatively \"young\" PPN. \n\nThe PPN phase continues until the central star reaches around 30,000 K and it is hot enough (producing enough ultraviolet radiation) to ionize the circumstellar nebula (ejected gases) and it becomes a kind of emission nebula called a PN. This transition must take place in less than around 10,000 years or else the density of the circumstellar envelope will fall below the PN formulation density threshold of around 100 per cm³ and no PN will result, such a case is sometimes referred to as a 'lazy planetary nebula'. \n\nIn 2001, Bujarrabal et al. found that the \"interacting stellar winds\" model of Kwok\net al. (1978) of radiatively-driven winds is insufficient to account for their CO observations of PPN fast winds which imply high momentum and energy inconsistent with that model. This has prompted theorists (Soker & Rappaport 2000; Frank & Blackmann 2004) to investigate whether an accretion disk scenario, similar to the model used to explain jets from active galactic nuclei and young stars, could account for both the point symmetry and the high degree of collimation seen in many PPN jets. In such a model, the accretion disk forms through binary interactions. Magneto-centrifugal launching from the disk surface is then a way to convert gravitational energy into the kinetic energy of a fast wind. If this model is correct and magneto-hydrodynamics (MHD) do determine the energetics and collimation of PPN outflows, then they will also determine physics of the shocks in these flows, and this can be confirmed with high-resolution pictures of the emission regions that go with the shocks. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "416803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416803", "title": "SOSUS", "text": "SOSUS\n\nSOSUS, an acronym for sound surveillance system, is a chain of underwater listening posts located around the world in places such as the Atlantic Ocean near Greenland, Iceland and the United Kingdom—the GIUK gap—and at various locations in the Pacific Ocean. The United States Navy's initial intent for the system was for tracking Soviet submarines, which had to pass through the gap to attack targets further west. It was later supplemented by mobile assets such as the Surveillance Towed Array Sensor System (SURTASS), and became part of the Integrated Undersea Surveillance System (IUSS).\nSOSUS history began in 1949 when the US Navy formed the Committee for Undersea Warfare to research anti-submarine warfare. The panel allocated US$10 million annually to develop systems to counter the Soviet submarine threat consisting primarily of a large fleet of diesel submarines. They decided on a system to monitor low-frequency sound in the SOFAR channel using multiple listening sites equipped with hydrophones and a processing facility that could detect submarine positions by triangulation over hundreds of miles.\n\nAt MIT in 1950, the committee sponsored \"Project Hartwell\", named for the Hartwell Farms restaurant in Lexington, Massachusetts, where some of the initial steps were planned. In November, they selected Western Electric to build a demonstration system, and the first six-element hydrophone array was installed on the island of Eleuthera in the Bahamas. Meanwhile, \"Project Jezebel\" at Bell Labs and \"Project Michael\" at Columbia University focused on studying long range acoustics in the ocean.\n\nBy 1952, enough progress resulted in top secret plans to deploy six arrays in the North Atlantic basin, and the classified name SOSUS was used. The number of arrays was increased to nine later in the year, and Royal Navy and US Navy ships, including USS \"Neptune\" and USS \"Peregrine\", started laying the cabling under the cover of \"Project Caesar\". In 1953, Jezebel's research had developed an additional high-frequency system for direct plotting of ships passing over the stations, intended to be installed in narrows and straits, called \"Project Colossus\".\n\nSOSUS systems consisted of bottom-mounted hydrophone arrays connected by underwater cables to facilities ashore. The individual arrays were installed primarily on continental slopes and seamounts at locations optimized for undistorted long range acoustic propagation. The combination of location within the ocean and the sensitivity of arrays allowed the system to detect acoustic power of less than a single watt at ranges of several hundred kilometres. SOSUS monitoring stations went by the acronym NAVFAC, (Naval Facility; e.g., NAVFAC Adak; not to be confused with the Naval Facilities Engineering Command which uses the same acronym). \n\nWhen the sank in 1963, SOSUS helped determine its location. In 1968, the first detections of Victor and Charlie class Soviet submarines were made, while in 1974 the first Delta class submarine was observed. In 1968, SOSUS played a key role in locating the wreckage of a US Nuclear Attack submarine, the , lost near the Azores in May. Moreover, SOSUS data from March 1968 facilitated the discovery, and clandestine retrieval six years later, of parts of a Soviet GOLF II-class ballistic missile submarine, the K-129, that foundered that month north of Hawaii.\n\nGiven its criticality to Cold War operations against the Soviet Navy's submarine fleet, SOSUS/IUSS remained highly classified from its inception and the purposes and activities of the various NAVFACs were not publicly acknowledged nor commonly known outside of the US Navy's submarine fleet, its cruiser/destroyer/frigate fleet, and its anti-submarine warfare aircraft forces until the end of the Cold War. In 1991, the system mission was declassified and in 1993 a program reporting whale detections was started. The Advanced Deployable System became operational as part of IUSS in 1996.\n\nIn 1988, Stephen Joseph Ratkai, a Hungarian-Canadian recruited by Soviet Intelligence, was arrested, charged and convicted in St. John's, Newfoundland for attempting to obtain information on the SOSUS site at Naval Station Argentia. John Anthony Walker, a US Navy Chief Warrant Officer and communications specialist, divulged SOSUS operational information to the Soviet Union during the Cold War which compromised its effectiveness. In 1968, when the USS \"Pueblo\" was captured by North Korea, it is believed the SOSUS system was compromised and all information obtained was given to the Soviet Union.\n\nSOSUS was gradually condensed into a smaller number of monitoring stations during the 1970s and 1980s. However, the SOSUS arrays themselves were based upon technology that could only be upgraded irregularly. With the ending of the Cold War in the 1990s, the immediate need for SOSUS decreased, and the focus of the US Navy also turned toward a system that was deployable on a theatre basis. Although officially declassified in 1991, by that time IUSS and SOSUS had long been an open secret.\n\nAlternate or dual-use partnerships exist with the University of Washington Applied Physics Laboratory for Ocean Acoustic Tomography, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Vents, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, Texas Applied Research Laboratories, and several other organizations.\n\nThe People's Republic of China maintains a submarine monitoring system in the South China Sea, called the Underwater Great Wall () and the Underwater Monitoring System () in Chinese media.\n\nChina has been operating two underwater sensors since 2016, located in the Challenger Deep and off the island of Yap, Micronesia. The sensors reportedly have the acoustic range to detect movement at Naval Base Guam, and reportedly may allow China to monitor the movements of the US Navy, including its submarines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11988606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11988606", "title": "Shale gouge ratio", "text": "Shale gouge ratio\n\nShale gouge ratio (typically abbreviated to SGR) is a mathematical algorithm that aims to predict the fault rock types for simple fault zones developed in sedimentary sequences dominated by sandstones and shales.\n\nThe parameter is widely used in the oil and gas exploration and production industries to enable quantitative predictions to be made regarding the hydrodynamic behavior of faults. \n\nAt any point on a fault surface, the shale gouge ratio is equal to the net shale/clay content of the rocks that have slipped past that point. \n\nThe SGR algorithm assumes complete mixing of the wall-rock components in any particular 'throw interval'. The parameter is a measure of the 'upscaled' composition of the fault zone.\n\nHydrocarbon exploration involves identifying and defining accumulations of hydrocarbons that are trapped in subsurface structures. These structures are often segmented by faults. For a thorough trap evaluation, it is necessary to predict whether the fault is sealing or leaking to hydrocarbons and also to provide an estimate of how 'strong' the fault seal might be. The 'strength' of a fault seal can be quantified in terms of subsurface pressure, arising from the buoyancy forces within the hydrocarbon column, that the fault can support before it starts to leak. When acting on a fault zone this subsurface pressure is termed capillary threshold pressure.\n\nFor faults developed in sandstone and shale sequences, the first order control on capillary threshold pressure is likely to be the composition, in particular the shale or clay content, of the fault-zone material. SGR is used to estimate the shale content of the fault zone.\n\nIn general, fault zones with higher clay content, equivalent to higher SGR values, can support higher capillary threshold pressures. On a broader scale, other factors also exert a control on the threshold pressure, such as depth of the rock sequence at the time of faulting, and the maximum burial depth. As maximum burial depth exceeds 3 km, the effective strength of the fault seal will increase for all fault zone compositions.\n\nYielding, Needham & Freeman, 1997. American Association of Petroleum Geologists Bulletin, vol.81, p.897-917.\n\n"}
{"id": "27384412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27384412", "title": "Solar Valley (China)", "text": "Solar Valley (China)\n\nChina's Solar Valley () located in Dezhou, Shandong province, China, is \"a massive exercise in social, economic and ecological engineering\" using solar power in China. It is planned to cost $740 million USD, which includes $10 million to install solar lighting along roadways. The project is led by \"Himin Solar Energy Group\", the world's largest solar water heater manufacturer.\n\nSolar Valley is named after Silicon Valley.\n\n"}
{"id": "18993816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18993816", "title": "Solid", "text": "Solid\n\nSolid is one of the four fundamental states of matter (the others being liquid, gas, and plasma). In solids molecules are closely packed. It is characterized by structural rigidity and resistance to changes of shape or volume. Unlike liquid, a solid object does not flow to take on the shape of its container, nor does it expand to fill the entire volume available to it like a gas does. The atoms in a solid are tightly bound to each other, either in a regular geometric lattice (crystalline solids, which include metals and ordinary ice) or irregularly (an amorphous solid such as common window glass). Solids cannot be compressed with little pressure whereas gases can be compressed with little pressure because in gases molecules are loosely packed.\n\nThe branch of physics that deals with solids is called solid-state physics, and is the main branch of condensed matter physics (which also includes liquids). Materials science is primarily concerned with the physical and chemical properties of solids. Solid-state chemistry is especially concerned with the synthesis of novel materials, as well as the science of identification and chemical composition.\n\nThe atoms, molecules or ions that make up solids may be arranged in an orderly repeating pattern, or irregularly. Materials whose constituents are arranged in a regular pattern are known as crystals. In some cases, the regular ordering can continue unbroken over a large scale, for example diamonds, where each diamond is a single crystal. Solid objects that are large enough to see and handle are rarely composed of a single crystal, but instead are made of a large number of single crystals, known as crystallites, whose size can vary from a few nanometers to several meters. Such materials are called polycrystalline. Almost all common metals, and many ceramics, are polycrystalline.\nIn other materials, there is no long-range order in the position of the atoms. These solids are known as amorphous solids; examples include polystyrene and glass.\n\nWhether a solid is crystalline or amorphous depends on the material involved, and the conditions in which it was formed. Solids that are formed by slow cooling will tend to be crystalline, while solids that are frozen rapidly are more likely to be amorphous. Likewise, the specific crystal structure adopted by a crystalline solid depends on the material involved and on how it was formed.\n\nWhile many common objects, such as an ice cube or a coin, are chemically identical throughout, many other common materials comprise a number of different substances packed together. For example, a typical rock is an aggregate of several different minerals and mineraloids, with no specific chemical composition. Wood is a natural organic material consisting primarily of cellulose fibers embedded in a matrix of organic lignin. In materials science, composites of more than one constituent material can be designed to have desired properties.\n\nThe forces between the atoms in a solid can take a variety of forms. For example, a crystal of sodium chloride (common salt) is made up of ionic sodium and chlorine, which are held together by ionic bonds. In diamond or silicon, the atoms share electrons and form covalent bonds. In metals, electrons are shared in metallic bonding. Some solids, particularly most organic compounds, are held together with van der Waals forces resulting from the polarization of the electronic charge cloud on each molecule. The dissimilarities between the types of solid result from the differences between their bonding.\n\nMetals typically are strong, dense, and good conductors of both electricity and heat. \nThe bulk of the elements in the periodic table, those to the left of a diagonal line drawn from boron to polonium, are metals.\nMixtures of two or more elements in which the major component is a metal are known as alloys.\n\nPeople have been using metals for a variety of purposes since prehistoric times.\nThe strength and reliability of metals has led to their widespread use in construction of buildings and other structures, as well as in most vehicles, many appliances and tools, pipes, road signs and railroad tracks. Iron and aluminium are the two most commonly used structural metals, and they are also the most abundant metals in the Earth's crust. Iron is most commonly used in the form of an alloy, steel, which contains up to 2.1% carbon, making it much harder than pure iron.\n\nBecause metals are good conductors of electricity, they are valuable in electrical appliances and for carrying an electric current over long distances with little energy loss or dissipation. Thus, electrical power grids rely on metal cables to distribute electricity. Home electrical systems, for example, are wired with copper for its good conducting properties and easy machinability. The high thermal conductivity of most metals also makes them useful for stovetop cooking utensils.\n\nThe study of metallic elements and their alloys makes up a significant portion of the fields of solid-state chemistry, physics, materials science and engineering.\n\nMetallic solids are held together by a high density of shared, delocalized electrons, known as \"metallic bonding\". In a metal, atoms readily lose their outermost (\"valence\") electrons, forming positive ions. The free electrons are spread over the entire solid, which is held together firmly by electrostatic interactions between the ions and the electron cloud. The large number of free electrons gives metals their high values of electrical and thermal conductivity. The free electrons also prevent transmission of visible light, making metals opaque, shiny and lustrous.\n\nMore advanced models of metal properties consider the effect of the positive ions cores on the delocalised electrons. As most metals have crystalline structure, those ions are usually arranged into a periodic lattice. Mathematically, the potential of the ion cores can be treated by various models, the simplest being the nearly free electron model.\n\nMinerals are naturally occurring solids formed through various geological processes under high pressures. To be classified as a true mineral, a substance must have a crystal structure with uniform physical properties throughout. Minerals range in composition from pure elements and simple salts to very complex silicates with thousands of known forms. In contrast, a rock sample is a random aggregate of minerals and/or mineraloids, and has no specific chemical composition. The vast majority of the rocks of the Earth's crust consist of quartz (crystalline SiO), feldspar, mica, chlorite, kaolin, calcite, epidote, olivine, augite, hornblende, magnetite, hematite, limonite and a few other minerals. Some minerals, like quartz, mica or feldspar are common, while others have been found in only a few locations worldwide. The largest group of minerals by far is the silicates (most rocks are ≥95% silicates), which are composed largely of silicon and oxygen, with the addition of ions of aluminium, magnesium, iron, calcium and other metals.\n\nCeramic solids are composed of inorganic compounds, usually oxides of chemical elements. They are chemically inert, and often are capable of withstanding chemical erosion that occurs in an acidic or caustic environment. Ceramics generally can withstand high temperatures ranging from 1000 to 1600 °C (1800 to 3000 °F). Exceptions include non-oxide inorganic materials, such as nitrides, borides and carbides.\n\nTraditional ceramic raw materials include clay minerals such as kaolinite, more recent materials include aluminium oxide (alumina). The modern ceramic materials, which are classified as advanced ceramics, include silicon carbide and tungsten carbide. Both are valued for their abrasion resistance, and hence find use in such applications as the wear plates of crushing equipment in mining operations.\n\nMost ceramic materials, such as alumina and its compounds, are formed from fine powders, yielding a fine grained polycrystalline microstructure that is filled with light-scattering centers comparable to the wavelength of visible light. Thus, they are generally opaque materials, as opposed to transparent materials. Recent nanoscale (e.g. sol-gel) technology has, however, made possible the production of polycrystalline transparent ceramics such as transparent alumina and alumina compounds for such applications as high-power lasers. Advanced ceramics are also used in the medicine, electrical and electronics industries.\n\nCeramic engineering is the science and technology of creating solid-state ceramic materials, parts and devices. This is done either by the action of heat, or, at lower temperatures, using precipitation reactions from chemical solutions. The term includes the purification of raw materials, the study and production of the chemical compounds concerned, their formation into components, and the study of their structure, composition and properties.\n\nMechanically speaking, ceramic materials are brittle, hard, strong in compression and weak in shearing and tension. Brittle materials may exhibit significant tensile strength by supporting a static load. Toughness indicates how much energy a material can absorb before mechanical failure, while fracture toughness (denoted K ) describes the ability of a material with inherent microstructural flaws to resist fracture via crack growth and propagation. If a material has a large value of fracture toughness, the basic principles of fracture mechanics suggest that it will most likely undergo ductile fracture. Brittle fracture is very characteristic of most ceramic and glass-ceramic materials that typically exhibit low (and inconsistent) values of K.\n\nFor an example of applications of ceramics, the extreme hardness of zirconia is utilized in the manufacture of knife blades, as well as other industrial cutting tools. Ceramics such as alumina, boron carbide and silicon carbide have been used in bulletproof vests to repel large-caliber rifle fire. Silicon nitride parts are used in ceramic ball bearings, where their high hardness makes them wear resistant. In general, ceramics are also chemically resistant and can be used in wet environments where steel bearings would be susceptible to oxidation (or rust).\n\nAs another example of ceramic applications, in the early 1980s, Toyota researched production of an adiabatic ceramic engine with an operating temperature of over 6000 °F (3300 °C). Ceramic engines do not require a cooling system and hence allow a major weight reduction and therefore greater fuel efficiency. In a conventional metallic engine, much of the energy released from the fuel must be dissipated as waste heat in order to prevent a meltdown of the metallic parts. Work is also being done in developing ceramic parts for gas turbine engines. Turbine engines made with ceramics could operate more efficiently, giving aircraft greater range and payload for a set amount of fuel. Such engines are not in production, however, because the manufacturing of ceramic parts in the sufficient precision and durability is difficult and costly. Processing methods often result in a wide distribution of microscopic flaws that frequently play a detrimental role in the sintering process, resulting in the proliferation of cracks, and ultimate mechanical failure.\n\nGlass-ceramic materials share many properties with both non-crystalline glasses and crystalline ceramics. They are formed as a glass, and then partially crystallized by heat treatment, producing both amorphous and crystalline phases so that crystalline grains are embedded within a non-crystalline intergranular phase.\n\nGlass-ceramics are used to make cookware (originally known by the brand name CorningWare) and stovetops that have both high resistance to thermal shock and extremely low permeability to liquids. The negative coefficient of thermal expansion of the crystalline ceramic phase can be balanced with the positive coefficient of the glassy phase. At a certain point (~70% crystalline) the glass-ceramic has a net coefficient of thermal expansion close to zero. This type of glass-ceramic exhibits excellent mechanical properties and can sustain repeated and quick temperature changes up to 1000 °C.\n\nGlass ceramics may also occur naturally when lightning strikes the crystalline (e.g. quartz) grains found in most beach sand. In this case, the extreme and immediate heat of the lightning (~2500 °C) creates hollow, branching rootlike structures called fulgurite via fusion.\n\nOrganic chemistry studies the structure, properties, composition, reactions, and preparation by synthesis (or other means) of chemical compounds of carbon and hydrogen, which may contain any number of other elements such as nitrogen, oxygen and the halogens: fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. Some organic compounds may also contain the elements phosphorus or sulfur. Examples of organic solids include wood, paraffin wax, naphthalene and a wide variety of polymers and plastics.\n\nWood is a natural organic material consisting primarily of cellulose fibers embedded in a matrix of lignin. Regarding mechanical properties, the fibers are strong in tension, and the lignin matrix resists compression. Thus wood has been an important construction material since humans began building shelters and using boats. Wood to be used for construction work is commonly known as \"lumber\" or \"timber\". In construction, wood is not only a structural material, but is also used to form the mould for concrete.\n\nWood-based materials are also extensively used for packaging (e.g. cardboard) and paper, which are both created from the refined pulp. The chemical pulping processes use a combination of high temperature and alkaline (kraft) or acidic (sulfite) chemicals to break the chemical bonds of the lignin before burning it out.\n\nOne important property of carbon in organic chemistry is that it can form certain compounds, the individual molecules of which are capable of attaching themselves to one another, thereby forming a chain or a network. The process is called polymerization and the chains or networks polymers, while the source compound is a monomer. Two main groups of polymers exist: those artificially manufactured are referred to as industrial polymers or synthetic polymers (plastics) and those naturally occurring as biopolymers.\n\nMonomers can have various chemical substituents, or functional groups, which can affect the chemical properties of organic compounds, such as solubility and chemical reactivity, as well as the physical properties, such as hardness, density, mechanical or tensile strength, abrasion resistance, heat resistance, transparency, color, etc.. In proteins, these differences give the polymer the ability to adopt a biologically active conformation in preference to others (see self-assembly).\n\nPeople have been using natural organic polymers for centuries in the form of waxes and shellac, which is classified as a thermoplastic polymer. A plant polymer named cellulose provided the tensile strength for natural fibers and ropes, and by the early 19th century natural rubber was in widespread use. Polymers are the raw materials (the resins) used to make what are commonly called plastics. Plastics are the final product, created after one or more polymers or additives have been added to a resin during processing, which is then shaped into a final form. Polymers that have been around, and that are in current widespread use, include carbon-based polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene, nylons, polyesters, acrylics, polyurethane, and polycarbonates, and silicon-based silicones. Plastics are generally classified as \"commodity\", \"specialty\" and \"engineering\" plastics.\n\nComposite materials contain two or more macroscopic phases, one of which is often ceramic. For example, a continuous matrix, and a dispersed phase of ceramic particles or fibers.\n\nApplications of composite materials range from structural elements such as steel-reinforced concrete, to the thermally insulative tiles that play a key and integral role in NASA's Space Shuttle thermal protection system, which is used to protect the surface of the shuttle from the heat of re-entry into the Earth's atmosphere. One example is Reinforced Carbon-Carbon (RCC), the light gray material that withstands reentry temperatures up to 1510 °C (2750 °F) and protects the nose cap and leading edges of Space Shuttle's wings. RCC is a laminated composite material made from graphite rayon cloth and impregnated with a phenolic resin. After curing at high temperature in an autoclave, the laminate is pyrolized to convert the resin to carbon, impregnated with furfural alcohol in a vacuum chamber, and cured/pyrolized to convert the furfural alcohol to carbon. In order to provide oxidation resistance for reuse capability, the outer layers of the RCC are converted to silicon carbide.\n\nDomestic examples of composites can be seen in the \"plastic\" casings of television sets, cell-phones and so on. These plastic casings are usually a composite made up of a thermoplastic matrix such as acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) in which calcium carbonate chalk, talc, glass fibers or carbon fibers have been added for strength, bulk, or electro-static dispersion. These additions may be referred to as reinforcing fibers, or dispersants, depending on their purpose.\n\nThus, the matrix material surrounds and supports the reinforcement materials by maintaining their relative positions. The reinforcements impart their special mechanical and physical properties to enhance the matrix properties. A synergism produces material properties unavailable from the individual constituent materials, while the wide variety of matrix and strengthening materials provides the designer with the choice of an optimum combination.\n\nSemiconductors are materials that have an electrical resistivity (and conductivity) between that of metallic conductors and non-metallic insulators. They can be found in the periodic table moving diagonally downward right from boron. They separate the electrical conductors (or metals, to the left) from the insulators (to the right).\n\nDevices made from semiconductor materials are the foundation of modern electronics, including radio, computers, telephones, etc. Semiconductor devices include the transistor, solar cells, diodes and integrated circuits. Solar photovoltaic panels are large semiconductor devices that directly convert light into electrical energy.\n\nIn a metallic conductor, current is carried by the flow of electrons\", but in semiconductors, current can be carried either by electrons or by the positively charged \"holes\" in the electronic band structure of the material. Common semiconductor materials include silicon, germanium and gallium arsenide.\n\nMany traditional solids exhibit different properties when they shrink to nanometer sizes. For example, nanoparticles of usually yellow gold and gray silicon are red in color; gold nanoparticles melt at much lower temperatures (~300 °C for 2.5 nm size) than the gold slabs (1064 °C); and metallic nanowires are much stronger than the corresponding bulk metals. The high surface area of nanoparticles makes them extremely attractive for certain applications in the field of energy. For example, platinum metals may provide improvements as automotive fuel catalysts, as well as proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cells. Also, ceramic oxides (or cermets) of lanthanum, cerium, manganese and nickel are now being developed as solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC). Lithium, lithium–titanate and tantalum nanoparticles are being applied in lithium ion batteries. Silicon nanoparticles have been shown to dramatically expand the storage capacity of lithium ion batteries during the expansion/contraction cycle. Silicon nanowires cycle without significant degradation and present the potential for use in batteries with greatly expanded storage times. Silicon nanoparticles are also being used in new forms of solar energy cells. Thin film deposition of silicon quantum dots on the polycrystalline silicon substrate of a photovoltaic (solar) cell increases voltage output as much as 60% by fluorescing the incoming light prior to capture. Here again, surface area of the nanoparticles (and thin films) plays a critical role in maximizing the amount of absorbed radiation.\n\nMany natural (or biological) materials are complex composites with remarkable mechanical properties. These complex structures, which have risen from hundreds of million years of evolution, are inspiring materials scientists in the design of novel materials. Their defining characteristics include structural hierarchy, multifunctionality and self-healing capability. Self-organization is also a fundamental feature of many biological materials and the manner by which the structures are assembled from the molecular level up. Thus, self-assembly is emerging as a new strategy in the chemical synthesis of high performance biomaterials.\n\nPhysical properties of elements and compounds that provide conclusive evidence of chemical composition include odor, color, volume, density (mass per unit volume), melting point, boiling point, heat capacity, physical form and shape at room temperature (solid, liquid or gas; cubic, trigonal crystals, etc.), hardness, porosity, index of refraction and many others. This section discusses some physical properties of materials in the solid state.\n\nThe mechanical properties of materials describe characteristics such as their strength and resistance to deformation. For example, steel beams are used in construction because of their high strength, meaning that they neither break nor bend significantly under the applied load.\n\nMechanical properties include elasticity and plasticity, tensile strength, compressive strength, shear strength, fracture toughness, ductility (low in brittle materials), and indentation hardness. Solid mechanics is the study of the behavior of solid matter under external actions such as external forces and temperature changes.\n\nA solid does not exhibit macroscopic flow, as fluids do. Any degree of departure from its original shape is called deformation. The proportion of deformation to original size is called strain. If the applied stress is sufficiently low, almost all solid materials behave in such a way that the strain is directly proportional to the stress (Hooke's law). The coefficient of the proportion is called the modulus of elasticity or Young's modulus. This region of deformation is known as the linearly elastic region. Three models can describe how a solid responds to an applied stress:\n\nMany materials become weaker at high temperatures. Materials that retain their strength at high temperatures, called refractory materials, are useful for many purposes. For example, glass-ceramics have become extremely useful for countertop cooking, as they exhibit excellent mechanical properties and can sustain repeated and quick temperature changes up to 1000 °C.\nIn the aerospace industry, high performance materials used in the design of aircraft and/or spacecraft exteriors must have a high resistance to thermal shock. Thus, synthetic fibers spun out of organic polymers and polymer/ceramic/metal composite materials and fiber-reinforced polymers are now being designed with this purpose in mind.\n\nBecause solids have thermal energy, their atoms vibrate about fixed mean positions within the ordered (or disordered) lattice. The spectrum of lattice vibrations in a crystalline or glassy network provides the foundation for the kinetic theory of solids. This motion occurs at the atomic level, and thus cannot be observed or detected without highly specialized equipment, such as that used in spectroscopy.\n\nThermal properties of solids include thermal conductivity, which is the property of a material that indicates its ability to conduct heat. Solids also have a specific heat capacity, which is the capacity of a material to store energy in the form of heat (or thermal lattice vibrations).\n\nElectrical properties include conductivity, resistance, impedance and capacitance. Electrical conductors such as metals and alloys are contrasted with electrical insulators such as glasses and ceramics. Semiconductors behave somewhere in between. Whereas conductivity in metals is caused by electrons, both electrons and holes contribute to current in semiconductors. Alternatively, ions support electric current in ionic conductors.\n\nMany materials also exhibit superconductivity at low temperatures; they include metallic elements such as tin and aluminium, various metallic alloys, some heavily doped semiconductors, and certain ceramics. The electrical resistivity of most electrical (metallic) conductors generally decreases gradually as the temperature is lowered, but remains finite. In a superconductor, however, the resistance drops abruptly to zero when the material is cooled below its critical temperature. An electric current flowing in a loop of superconducting wire can persist indefinitely with no power source.\n\nA dielectric, or electrical insulator, is a substance that is highly resistant to the flow of electric current. A dielectric, such as plastic, tends to concentrate an applied electric field within itself, which property is used in capacitors. A capacitor is an electrical device that can store energy in the electric field between a pair of closely spaced conductors (called 'plates'). When voltage is applied to the capacitor, electric charges of equal magnitude, but opposite polarity, build up on each plate. Capacitors are used in electrical circuits as energy-storage devices, as well as in electronic filters to differentiate between high-frequency and low-frequency signals.\n\nPiezoelectricity is the ability of crystals to generate a voltage in response to an applied mechanical stress. The piezoelectric effect is reversible in that piezoelectric crystals, when subjected to an externally applied voltage, can change shape by a small amount. Polymer materials like rubber, wool, hair, wood fiber, and silk often behave as electrets. For example, the polymer polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) exhibits a piezoelectric response several times larger than the traditional piezoelectric material quartz (crystalline SiO). The deformation (~0.1%) lends itself to useful technical applications such as high-voltage sources, loudspeakers, lasers, as well as chemical, biological, and acousto-optic sensors and/or transducers.\n\nMaterials can transmit (e.g. glass) or reflect (e.g. metals) visible light.\n\nMany materials will transmit some wavelengths while blocking others. For example, window glass is transparent to visible light, but much less so to most of the frequencies of ultraviolet light that cause sunburn. This property is used for frequency-selective optical filters, which can alter the color of incident light.\n\nFor some purposes, both the optical and mechanical properties of a material can be of interest. For example, the sensors on an infrared homing (\"heat-seeking\") missile must be protected by a cover that is transparent to infrared radiation. The current material of choice for high-speed infrared-guided missile domes is single-crystal sapphire. The optical transmission of sapphire does not actually extend to cover the entire mid-infrared range (3–5 µm), but starts to drop off at wavelengths greater than approximately 4.5 µm at room temperature. While the strength of sapphire is better than that of other available mid-range infrared dome materials at room temperature, it weakens above 600 °C. A long-standing trade-off exists between optical bandpass and mechanical durability; new materials such as transparent ceramics or optical nanocomposites may provide improved performance.\n\nGuided lightwave transmission involves the field of fiber optics and the ability of certain glasses to transmit, simultaneously and with low loss of intensity, a range of frequencies (multi-mode optical waveguides) with little interference between them. Optical waveguides are used as components in integrated optical circuits or as the transmission medium in optical communication systems.\n\nA solar cell or photovoltaic cell is a device that converts light energy into electrical energy. Fundamentally, the device needs to fulfill only two functions: photo-generation of charge carriers (electrons and holes) in a light-absorbing material, and separation of the charge carriers to a conductive contact that will transmit the electricity (simply put, carrying electrons off through a metal contact into an external circuit). This conversion is called the photoelectric effect, and the field of research related to solar cells is known as photovoltaics.\n\nSolar cells have many applications. They have long been used in situations where electrical power from the grid is unavailable, such as in remote area power systems, Earth-orbiting satellites and space probes, handheld calculators, wrist watches, remote radiotelephones and water pumping applications. More recently, they are starting to be used in assemblies of solar modules (photovoltaic arrays) connected to the electricity grid through an inverter, that is not to act as a sole supply but as an additional electricity source.\n\nAll solar cells require a light absorbing material contained within the cell structure to absorb photons and generate electrons via the photovoltaic effect. The materials used in solar cells tend to have the property of preferentially absorbing the wavelengths of solar light that reach the earth surface. Some solar cells are optimized for light absorption beyond Earth's atmosphere, as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "38732869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38732869", "title": "Yaéré", "text": "Yaéré\n\nThe Yaéré, from Fula \"yaayre\", is the name of a vast annually flooded flat savanna grassland plain, part of the extensive floodplains around the shallow and variable Lake Chad in Central Africa. \n\nWhen not inundated by floods the Yaéré is an ecoregion of the Tropical and subtropical grasslands, savannas, and shrublands Biome, and when flooded it is an African freshwater ecoregion in the Flooded grasslands and savannas Biome.\n\nThe Yaéré covers areas of northeasternmost Nigeria, of Niger, of southern Chad and of the Far North Region of Cameroon. The Yaéré extends from the low hills at the base of the Mandara Mountains in the southwest to Lake Chad in the north. In the east it merges with the permanent wetlands bordering the Logone. At the beginning of the wet season the clays that compose the soil expand and form an imprmeable pan over which the water collects.\n\nIt is connected to the more permanent wetlands along the Logone River, which flows into the endorheic Lake Chad and seasonally overflows into the surrounding Yaéré savanna. Torrential seasonal rains also drain from the Mandara Mountains, bringing a rich sediment to the floodplain. The ecological richness of the Yaéré derives from its particular conditions of wet-season flooding and dry season drought. \n\nDrought years when rains fail, such as in the 1970s, are particularly harsh on this delicately balanced ecosystem, and on the local human population that depends on seasonal fishing.\n\nWaza National Park of Cameroon lies in the southwest part of the Yaéré savanna.\n\n"}
