{"id": "41961772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41961772", "title": "Arabs in Spain", "text": "Arabs in Spain\n\nThere have been Arabs in Spain () since the early 8th century when the Umayyad conquest of Hispania created the state of Al-Andalus. In modern times there are expatriates from a range of Arab countries, particularly Morocco, Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, Algeria, Lebanon, Syria, the Palestinian Territories, and Iraq; and also small groups from Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, Jordan and Sudan. As a result of the Arab Spring (Libyan Civil War and Syrian Civil War), many have the status of refugees or illegal immigrants, trying to immigrate especially to France, Germany and Sweden.\nThe Arab population in Spain is estimated to be between 702,000 (lower estimate) and 1,600,000 - 1,800,000 (higher estimate).\n\n"}
{"id": "13311105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13311105", "title": "Baymen", "text": "Baymen\n\nThe Baymen were the earliest European settlers along the Bay of Honduras in what eventually became the colony of British Honduras (modern-day Belize).\n\nThe first Baymen settled in the Belize City area in the 1650s. They were buccaneers and pirates trying to outrun the Spanish rulers in Mexico and Central America. They found that they could make a living cutting and selling logwood to the home country. Many of the first Baymen settled on what is now the Northside of Belize City. They controlled all affairs of municipal and national government through the Public Meeting.\n\nThe Baymen established the system of slavery in Belize, in order to have servants to cut logwood. Some slaves were allowed their own plantations, while others had to depend on their owner's rations. The Baymen reluctantly allowed slaves to participate in the Battle of St. George's Caye against the Spanish and their slaves. In some cases they faced former slaves who had run away or been taken in by the Spaniards. Great Britain ended slavery in the colony in 1838. Initially the planters refused to sell land to freedmen. But Belizean slaveowners received the highest compensation, of more than 50 pounds, for selling plots of emancipated territories.\n\nThe British and Spanish engaged in frequent dispute over the territory even after the 1763 Treaty of Paris. This had ended the Seven Years War conflict between the British and French. The British and Spanish also made arrangements under this treaty, including establishing British rights to cut logwood in the area of Belize. The Spanish, who controlled the neighboring colonies, chased out the Baymen four times between 1717 and 1780. Treaties in 1783 and 1786 gave them more security. But it was only after the Battle of St. George's Caye in 1798 did the Baymen gain full control of the settlement. It was admitted to colonial status in 1863 in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Maya peoples of Belize had suffered from extended conflict over the centuries with the Spanish. Some had retreated to or already occupied the depths of the dense forests of central and western Belize. Buccaneers had frequently raided most of the coastal settlements, stealing crops, and taking men and women as slaves. Some Mayan slaves were sold in the British colony of Jamaica, and shipped for sale to their colonies of Virginia and the Carolinas. \n\nWhen the supply of logwood began to diminish, and prices fell in Europe because other dyestuffs became available, the Baymen began to cut tropical cedar and mahogany. They had to go deeper into the forests for this wood, where they began to have hostile encounters with Maya villages. The Baymen reported attacks in 1788 and 1802. \n\nBut the main thrust of the Baymen clash with the Maya came in Corozal and Orange Walk districts as part of the Caste War. Mexican and Belizean Maya challenged British lumber encampments, with limited success. Maya resistance continued until the 1870s, representing the last stand of these indigenous independent people. By the late 19th century, the Maya and British were at peace. But logging companies continued to displace Maya villages and destroy their habitats.\n\nThe Garinagu people had an ambivalent relationship with the Baymen. While the Baymen valued the Garinagu's agricultural skills, they wanted them to submit to European control and help capture refugee slaves. The Baymen began a campaign of misinformation, saying the Garinagu had practices of \"devil worshipping\" and \"baby eating.\" This poisoned relationships between the Creoles and \"Kerobs\", as they were derogatorily called.\n"}
{"id": "32261197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32261197", "title": "Biyelgee", "text": "Biyelgee\n\nBiyelgee (Mongolian Cyrillic: Биелгээ) or Bii (Mongolian Cyrillic: Бий), is a unique form of dance, originated from the nomadic way of life. It has often been labelled in English by Chinese troupes as Mongolian bowl dancing.\n\nAlmost all regions populated by different ethnic groups of Mongolia have their specific forms of Biyelgee. Especially the Western Mongols (Oirats) is famous for its Biyelgee dance.\n\nBiyelgee dances embody and originate from the nomadic way of life and are performed while half sitting or cross-legged. Hand, shoulder and leg movements express aspects of Mongol herders everyday lifestyle such as milking the cow, cooking, hunting, household labor, customs and traditions, etc. as well as spiritual characteristics tied to different ethnic groups.\nOriginally, Mongolian dance developed very early is evidenced by a reference in The Secret History of the Mongols were wont to rejoice, dancing and feasting ... they danced until there was dust up to their knees ...\n\nIn Biyelgee, music plays an important part in the choreographic art of the Mongols. Many of the folk dances are performed to the accompaniment of the Morin Khuur (Horse-headed fiddle), ikhel, sometimes in combination with other instruments.\nThere are also dances which are performed exclusively to the accompaniment of the human voice, for example, the Buryat dance Yohor.\n\nChoreography is rich and diverse, since people living in different parts of the country employ different means of expressing their feelings. \nBiyelgee is traditionally performed on the rather limited space before the hearth, so the dancers make practically no use of their feet. Instead, the dancers principally use only the upper part of their bodies, and through their rhythmic movements express various aspects of their identities, such as sex, tribe, and ethic group. \nDance Movements, which can be made within a restricted space, are essential features in which the smallness of the space is compensated by the expressiveness of the movements of hands, shoulders, chest, waist, eyes and head.\n\nMongolian every ethnic groups have its particular forms of expression, e.g.:\n\n"}
{"id": "47896219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47896219", "title": "Brunei National Service Programme", "text": "Brunei National Service Programme\n\nBrunei National Service Programme (or popularly known as 'PKBN') is a national youth development programme established in Brunei Darussalam. It started in December 2011 when the first three pilot program was introduced. In 2014, PKBN make its history by the establishment of full and permanent national service programme.\n\nThe idea to establish a national service programme in Brunei began in September 2007 when His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah consented for the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sport to lead in the implementation and introduction of PKBN as Brunei Darussalam National Service Programme.\n\nTo undertake the task, a PKBN Task Force was formed with members from Prime Minister Office and the following Ministries: Defiance, Finance, Education, Health, Industry and Prime Resources, Development, Communication, Home Affairs, Religious Affairs, Culture Youth and Sports as well as Attorney General’s Chamber.\n\nPKBN is a unique youth development program (Calak Brunei) aimed to awaken the potential and give consciousness to youth to become members of society who is strong, strong self-esteem, disciplined, insightful, decorum, a believer, volunteerism and entrepreneurial spirit, love for country and king and support the concept of MIB, Wawasan Negara 2035, realising a State of Zikir and Implement Sharia Law.\n\nObjectives of PKBN are to develop and enhance the spirit of patriotism, commitment and resilience in youths, to enhance the spirit of solidarity and unity, to develop positive characteristics among younger generation through good values, to instill a spirit of caring and volunteerism, to produce healthy, confident, responsible and virtuous youths and to produce excellent Bruneian youths in line with the Goals of National Youth Policy.\n\n\"The state wants to see coaches serve as role models, encouragement, mentoring, and a catalyst in the development of families, communities and countries which include social welfare, society, entrepreneurial and religious,\" as described by the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports, Pehin Orang Kaya Pekerma Laila Diraja Dato Seri Setia Awang Haji Abdullah bin Haji Hazair during the Council Session Meeting with former trainees and trainers PKBN.\n\nTrainees play a role in maintaining peace and stability in the country and care on community welfare. Implementation PKBN is intended to be a national youth development program with extensive filling and create a vibrant patriotic youth, love of the king, race, religion and country.\n\nFormer PKBN trainees is a pioneer (pioneer) and mentor to new trainees. The presence of former PKBN trainees and availability of a large number of them to return to training camp PKBN to voluntarily working with coaches and supervisors in the township PKBN is clear evidence that PKBN have successfully established identity, discipline, commitment and character of youth willing to serving the community. Indeed, young graduates PKBN is 'Pride of a Nation' and be able to lift the image of the country as youths disciplined, caring, insightful and patriotism.\n\nThe PKBN's 3 months training process train the trainee in the form of discipline, nationality, spirituality, entrepreneurship, community and understanding the concept of Malay Islamic Monarchy and did not stop once the trainees graduated and left the training camp PKBN. In the end, the trainee were urged to continue to practice and to contribute to the family, community and country full with the knowledge and skills and experience learned and earned during training.\n\nThe current PKBN Base Training Camp is at the Sports Village in Berakas, near to the Indoor Stadium and the Sports School. In 2014, a new $26 million camp for Programme Khidmat Bakti Negara (PKBN) was built in Kampong Batu Apoi in Temburong District. The construction completed on June 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "8397245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8397245", "title": "Caste politics", "text": "Caste politics\n\nCaste in Indian society refers to a social group where membership is decided by birth. Members of such local group are endogamous, i.e. they tend to enter into marital relationships among themselves. They often have related political preferences.\n\nFor political/government purposes, the castes are broadly divided into\n\n\nThe Indian Muslims (13.4%), and Christians (2.3%) often function as castes since they too marry among themselves.\n\nOfficial lists are compiled by states recognizing the OBC, Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. The dividing lines can be ambiguous, several castes have demanded a lower rank so that they can avail the privileges offered. The term Upper caste also refers to Forward castes, when news reports refer to the Scheduled castes in relation to the two upper groups.\n\nThe removal of the boundaries between \"civil society\" and \"political society\" meant that caste now played a huge role in the political arena and also influenced other government-run institutions such as police and the judicial system. Though caste seemed to dictate one's access to such institutions, the location of that caste also played a pivotal role. If a lower caste were concentrated enough in one area, it could then translate that pocket of concentration of its caste members into political power and then challenge the hegemony of locally dominant upper caste. Gender also plays a significant role in the power dynamic of caste in politics. Women's representation within the political system seems to also be tied to their caste. Lower, more conservative castes have less female participation in politics than upper, more socially liberal, castes. This has caused a disproportionately large number of upper-caste women to occupy political office when compared to their lower caste counterparts. The hierarchy of caste and its role in politics and access to power and resources has created a society of patron-client relationships along caste lines. This staunchly rigid structure was most prevalent during the Congress-dominating period. This eventually led to the practice of vote banking, where voters back only candidates that are in their caste , or officials from which they expect to receive some kind of benefits.\n\nHistorically it has been very hard to change the structure of caste politics in India. More recently however, there has been a flux in caste politics, mainly caused by economic liberalisation in India. This upsurge in lower-caste empowerment was accompanied in some regions by a spike in the level of corruption. This was partly due to lower caste perceiving development programs and rule of law as tools used by the upper caste to subjugate lower castes.\n\nContemporary India, however, has seen the influence of caste start to decline. This is partly due to the spread of education to all castes which has had a democratising effect on the political system. However, this \"equalising\" of the playing field has not been without controversy. The Mandal Commission and its quotas system has been a particularly sensitive issue.\n\nIt has been argued by Professor Dipankar Gupta that the role of castes in Indian elections have been overplayed.\n\nThe British institutionalised caste into the workings of the major government institutions within India. The main benefactors of this indirect rule were the upper castes or forward castes, which maintained their hegemony and monopoly of control and influence over government institutes long after independence from the British. The state of post-colonial India promised development, rule of law, and nation building, but in reality, was a complex network of patronage systems, which solidified the upper-caste position of dominance over civil service institutions. This network undermined the very promises of ‘nation building’ that post-colonial India had made and ushered in an area of upper-caste dominance that lasted for the next four decades.\n\nIn August 1932, the then Prime Minister of Britain, Ramsay MacDonald, made what became known as the Communal Award. According to it, separate representation was to be provided for communities such as the Dalit, Muslims, Sikhs, Indian Christians, Anglo-Indians and Europeans. These depressed classes were assigned a number of seats to be filled by election from special constituencies in which only voters belonging to these classes could vote.\n\nThe caste system has traditionally had significant influence over people’s access to power. The privileged upper caste groups benefit more by gaining substantially more economic and political power, while the lower caste groups have limited access to those powers. The caste system distributes to different castes different economic strengths. The upper caste groups can then manipulate the economic and political system to transfer economic strength into political power.\n\nIn rural North India, upper and middle-ranking castes dominate the ownership of land. They were able to transfer this control over wealth into political dominance over the Panchayat decision. The Panchayat is a local government unit that is in-charge of resources disbursement. The dominant caste groups monopolised leadership positions in the Panchayat, thus gaining more opportunities to government contracts, employment and funding.\n\nAccess to police and judicial assistance also depends on which caste one belongs to. By bribing, influencing and intimidating the police and judicial officials, the rural north Indian middle and upper castes tend to manipulate the local police and judicial power more successfully. These types of political rent-seeking's have also helped secure the supply of rents to dominant castes through other channels such as ‘rigging Panchayat elections, capturing electoral booths, and using pre-election intimidatory tactics in elections for the state assembly.’ Whether an individual or a group can raise enough money for constant bribes depends on the caste-based socioeconomic status. Hence, the advantage in accessing economic resources not only transfers into but also reinforces the political might of the dominant caste groups. Certain scientists and activists, such as MIT systems scientist Dr. VA Shiva Ayyadurai, blame caste for holding back innovation and scientific research in India, making it difficult to sustain progress while regressive social organisation prevails.\n\nCaste, ascribed at birth, is also influenced by where one is born. Political lines in India have often been drawn along caste lines; however, this is only part of the story. Caste is often specific to a particular area. These caste pockets create a locally dominant castes. Because of the political structure in India, local dominance can translate into regional dominance. This concentration of caste population has meant that smaller, less influential castes have the opportunity stake there claims in the political power arena. However, if a non-dominant caste is not concentrated in a particular area, then they are not likely to get any representation without teaming up with another caste to increase their influence. This means, \"localised concentration facilitates a space for contesting the domination of State-level dominant caste\". For instance, the Maratha-Kunbi caste has concentrations of populations all over the Indian states. They thus managed to receive maximum representation at the state legislature.(ibid)\n\nThough the caste system factors greatly in determining who makes up the local elites, it also plays a huge role in determining women's influence and representation in the political system. In India’s bicameral parliamentary system, women represent a minuscule amount of each house. Of the people's assembly, made up of 545 members, women represent a mere 5.2 percent; and in the State assembly, with 259 members, women make up only 8.8 percent. Both houses have seen an alarming decline in female representatives in the most recent decades. Of the 39 women representatives in the Indian Parliament most were members of higher castes. Caste, which eventually effects class, is one of the most important factors in determining a woman’s successful inclusion into the political system. This may be due to the fact that higher castes challenge the role of the traditional Indian woman and so their caste position gives them a greater range of options that are not available to lower more traditional castes. This inflated representation of elite caste in public offices has meant that the impact they have on public policy is disproportionately large in comparison to their actual numbers.\n\nPolitics in India highly depended on patron-client ties along the caste lines during the Congress-dominating period. The caste that one belongs to serves as a strong determinant of his or her voting pattern. In India, different political parties represent the interests of different caste groups. The upper and merchant castes such as Brahmin, Rajput and Kayasth and the rich Muslim groups tend to express their interests through the Congress Party. The agrarian middle class such as the Jats tend to vote for the competing parties. Numerically minor parties, represented by the Jan Shangh, receive votes almost exclusively from the upper and trading castes (ibid). However, caste does not solely determine voting behaviours. Discrepancies occur especially for the upper caste groups. (ibid) This means that not everyone from the same caste would vote for only one particular party. The upper caste people have more freedom to vote by political beliefs. The Mandal Commission covered more than 3000 Other Backward Castes. It is thus not clear which parties are associated with each castes.\n\nLoyal groups of voters usually back a certain candidate or party during elections with the expectation of receiving benefits once their candidate is in office. This practice, called \"votebank\", is prolific throughout most regions of the country. Many political parties in India have openly indulged in caste-based votebank politics. The Congress party used votebank to maintain power; the competing parties constructed votebanks to challenge the Congress dominance of politics.\n\nBy the early 1990s there began a shift in caste politics. The continuation of a one party system, which was the Congress party, composed mostly of upper-caste leadership, came to an end. This was partly due to economic liberalisation in India which reduced the control the state had on the economy and thus the lower castes, and partly due to an upsurge in caste based parties that made the politics of lower caste empowerment a central part of there political agenda. It should be pointed out that these new political parties emerged not on a national level but on a village and regional level, and were most dominant in North India.\n\nThese parties view development programs and rule of law as institutions used by upper caste to control and subjugate lower castes. As a result, these new political parties sought to weaken these institutions and in turn weaken the upper caste domination in the political arena in India. Since ‘rule of law’ was seen as controlled by upper-castes, these new parties adopted a strategy that had to operate outside of this rule in order to gain political influence and lower-caste empowerment.\n\nCorruption thus translated into power and a means to enter the political arena, once only open to upper caste members. Corruption in India became a way to level the playing field. This struggle for empowerment that was forced to operate outside of the rule of law produced caste-based mafia networks. These mafia-networks began to chip away at upper caste control over state institutions.\n\nHowever, unlike their predecessor, these caste mafia groups were not concerned with ‘development’, but mainly viewed elections and democracy as a way of gaining control of the state, which would enable them to level social inequalities. This new state envisioned a government of \"Social Justice\" through caste empowerment. Within the context of \"social justice\" corruption pontificated by the caste mafias became tolerated, and in some cases, as in the province of Bihar, even celebrated.\n\nThe very nature of caste politics inherently means that there are no boundaries between \"civil society\" and \"political society\", as demonstrated by the proliferation caste mafia. The mafia dons became mayors, ministers, and even members of Parliament. Therefore, there was no alternative to fight against these mafia figures and political brokers. Because rule of law was perceived to be a mechanism of upper caste control, corruption used by caste mafia became popularly accepted, as it was perceived to be a means to achieve lower caste empowerment. The corruption elevated to such a level that nearly all elected officials in some towns and regions were also criminals. The upper castes who had used their control over the state to discreetly plunder its institutions for their own gain, were now replaced by the mafia dons who now openly pillaged the state institutions. Many of these elected ministers/mafia dons were jailed for the illegal practices they employed; however, this was widely touted as the upper castes trying to regain dominance by eliminating \"social justice\" supporters. Corruption and politics became so common that at a time it was not uncommon for election results to be contested from a prison cell.\n\nCorruption therefore translated into power and a means to enter the political arena, once only open to upper caste members. In this way corruption was seen as a way to level the playing field, and as a result was tolerated and in some villages championed under the banner of \"social justice\".\n\nIn the 1951 election, three ethnic parties challenged the Congress party: the Ram Rajya Parishad, the Hindu Mahasabha, and the Bharatiya Jana Sangh. These three sought to gain support from the Hindu majority. The All India Scheduled Caste Federation bid for support from the ex-untouchable castes. Three of the four ethnic parties gradually disappeared because they were not able to obtain enough votes. In the late 1980s, the Congress began to decline. More non-congress parties started to challenge the Congress dominance. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) descended from the Bharatiya Jana Sangh. It attempted to pit Hindus against Muslims. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Janata Dal ( JD) tried to seek support from the Scheduled Castes, and Muslims against the upper castes.\n\nThe intense party competitions that started in the late 1970s have also weakened the influence of caste in Indian politics. Traditionally, Indian political parties have been constructed from top-down. Party leaders relied on preexisted patron-client networks to collect votes. Hence, no parties established fixed organisations to keep constant contacts with the village-level. Since 1977, the number of youth participating in politics has significantly increased. Due to the lack of fixed organisations, political parties had to rely on the young village members for political mobilisation. Often, these young villagers exerted more political influence than the upper caste leaders and patrons. The status of these young people in the village depended on how much he could contribute to the economic development of the village. It is easier for the youth to maintain their status by rallying rather than remain loyal to a specific party. This also weakened the influence of caste and clientelism on Indian politics.\n\nIn the 1990s, many parties Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the Samajwadi Party and the Janata Dal started claiming that they were representing the backward castes. Many such parties, relying primarily on Backward Classes' support, often in alliance with Dalits and Muslims, rose to power in Indian states. At the same time, many Dalit leaders and intellectuals started realising that the main Dalit oppressors were the so-called Other Backward Classes, and formed their own parties, such as the Indian Justice Party. The Congress (I) in Maharashtra long relied on OBCs' backing for its political success. Bharatiya Janata Party has also showcased its Dalit and OBC leaders to prove that it is not an upper-caste party. Bangaru Laxman, the former BJP president (2001–2002) was a former Dalit. Sanyasin Uma Bharati, former CM of Madhya Pradesh, who belongs to OBC caste, was a former BJP leader. In 2006 Arjun Singh cabinet minister for MHRD of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was accused of playing caste politics when he introduced reservations for OBCs in educational institutions all around.\n\nIn Tamil Nadu, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) party rose to power promising representation of all castes in all important sectors of society.\n\nRecent evidence suggests that the influence of caste has been declining. Rather than a long-established, unchanging institution, caste is subject to political influence. Changes in political leadership throughout the history of India have led to changes in the structure of the caste system. India’s colonial past has shaped caste into a flexible institution, generating a new system that has crucial influences on political mobilisation. In some regions of India, strategic reconstructions of the caste system have taken place. For instance, the Bahujan Samaj Party in the state of Punjab was first initiated by urban political entrepreneurs who belonged to the former lower caste groups. The pliable caste system in the post-independence era acts as a tool for identifying marginal groups and political mobilisation . Various political leaderships can alter and influence the caste system to give different groups of people unequal rights in accessing public services and political competition.\n\nEducation spread to the lower castes after India gained independence. The younger generations of all castes have had access to educational resources since the 1980s. The number of the Scheduled and Backward Castes people receiving education increased at a faster rate than that of the upper caste groups. The spread of education to all castes generated democratising effects. Some representatives of the SC and ST groups obtained access to Congress in the 1950s~1960s (1179). Due to their higher education levels, they are less likely to respond to the upper-caste patrons, but to the needs and interests of the lower castes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1954, the Ministry of Education suggested that 20 per cent of places should be reserved for the SCs and STs in educational institutions with a provision to relax minimum qualifying marks for admission by 5 per cent wherever required. In 1982, it was specified that 15 per cent and 7.5 per cent of vacancies in public sector and government-aided educational institutes should be reserved for the SC and ST candidates, respectively. \n\nThe Mandal Commission, or the Socially Backward Classes Commission (SEBC), was established in India on 1 January 1979 by the Janata Party government under Prime Minister Morarji Desai with a mandate to \"identify the socially or educationally backward classes\" of India . It was headed by the late B.P. Mandal an Indian parliamentarian, to consider the question of reservations for people to redress caste discrimination, and used eleven social, economic, and educational indicators to determine backwardness. In 1980, based on its rationale that OBCs (\"Other backward classes\") identified on the basis of caste, economic and social indicators comprised 52% of India's population, the Commission's report recommended that members of Other Backward Classes (OBC) be granted reservations to 27 per cent of jobs under the Central government and public sector undertakings, thus making the total number of reservations for SC, ST and OBC to 49%. \n\nThough the report had been completed in 1983, the V.P.Singh government declared its intent to implement the report in August 1990, leading to widespread student protests. It was thereafter provided a temporary stay order by the Supreme court, but implemented in 1992 in the central government \n\nThe commission estimated that 52% of the total population of India (excluding SCs and STs), belonging to 3,743 different castes and communities, were ‘backward’. . The number of backward castes in Central list of OBCs has now increased to 5,013 (without the figures for most of the Union Territories) in 2006 as per National Commission for Backward Classes. \n\n"}
{"id": "34604883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34604883", "title": "Christina Henderson", "text": "Christina Henderson\n\nChristina Kirk Henderson (15 August 1861 – 27 September 1953) was a New Zealand teacher, feminist, prohibitionist, social reformer and editor.\n\nHenderson was born in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia on 15 August 1861, one of nine children of Alice and Daniel Henderson. The family moved to Kaiapoi, North Canterbury, New Zealand, and later Ashburton before settling in Christchurch. When she was young - \"barely in her teens\" - she became an unpaid pupil-teacher at Ashburton School. She then won a scholarship to Christchurch Normal School to continue her training. Once she had completed her certificates she was briefly headmistress of the Normal School. Henderson taught at Springston School in rural Canterbury from 1883 to 1885, and continued to study in the evenings and weekends through Canterbury College for a Bachelor of Arts degree; she graduated in 1891.\n\nFrom 1886 to 1912 Henderson was a staff member at Christchurch Girls' High School. She taught Latin and English and became first assistant in 1889; she also served as acting principal in 1898.\n\nHenderson was involved in a number of social justice causes. She campaigned for equal pay for women teachers from the beginning of her career, and started the Canterbury Women Teachers' Association. She fought for women's suffrage, and was a foundation member of the National Council of Women in 1896. She also campaigned for temperance and was involved with the Christchurch Prohibition League and the Woman's Christian Temperance Union. She was president of the Christchurch branch of the WCTU for 20 years.\n\nIn addition, she was involved with the Presbyterian Women's Missionary Union of New Zealand, serving as president and as secretary, and for over 20 years was editor of the organisation's magazine.\n\nHenderson was one of New Zealand's first women Justices of the Peace.\n\nSeveral of Henderson's siblings were also notable - her sister Stella was a journalist and the first woman parliamentary reporter for a major New Zealand newspaper; another sister, Elizabeth, became New Zealand's first woman Member of Parliament. A third sister, Alice, was a Presbyterian missionary in India, and her brother Alexander became editor of the \"Christchurch Star-Sun\" newspaper.\n"}
{"id": "10443117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10443117", "title": "Classic Maya collapse", "text": "Classic Maya collapse\n\nIn archaeology, the classic Maya collapse is the decline of Classic Maya civilization and the abandonment of Maya cities in the southern Maya lowlands of Mesoamerica between the 8th and 9th centuries, at the end of the Classic Maya Period. Preclassic Maya experienced a similar collapse in the 2nd century. \n\nThe Classic Period of Mesoamerican chronology is generally defined as the period from 250 to 900, the last century of which is referred to as the Terminal Classic. The Classic Maya collapse is one of the greatest unsolved mysteries in archaeology. Urban centers of the southern lowlands, among them Palenque, Copán, Tikal, and Calakmul, went into decline during the 8th and 9th centuries and were abandoned shortly thereafter. Archaeologically, this decline is indicated by the cessation of monumental inscriptions and the reduction of large-scale architectural construction at the primary urban centers of the Classic Period. \n\nAlthough termed a \"collapse\", it did not mark the end of the Maya civilization but rather a shift away from the Southern Lowlands as a power center; Northern Yucatán in particular prospered afterwards, although with very different artistic and architectural styles, and with much less use of monumental hieroglyphic writing. In the Post-Classic Period following the collapse, the state of Chichén Itzá built an empire that briefly united much of the Maya region, and centers such as Mayapán and Uxmal flourished, as did the Highland states of the K'iche' and Kaqchikel Maya. Independent Maya civilization continued until 1697 when the Spanish conquered Nojpetén, the last independent city-state. Millions of Maya people still inhabit the Yucatán peninsula today.\n\nBecause parts of Maya civilization unambiguously continued, a number of scholars strongly dislike the term \"collapse\". Regarding the proposed collapse, E. W. Andrews IV went as far as to say, \"in my belief no such thing happened.\"\n\nThe Maya often recorded dates on monuments they built. Few dated monuments were being built circa 500 – around ten per year in 514, for example. The number steadily increased to twenty per year by 672 and forty by around 750. After this, the number of dated monuments begins to falter relatively quickly, collapsing back to ten by 800 and to zero by 900. Likewise, recorded lists of kings complement this analysis. Altar Q at Copán shows a reign of kings from 426 to 763. One last king not recorded on Altar Q was Ukit Took, \"Patron of Flint\", who was probably a usurper. The dynasty is believed to have collapsed entirely shortly thereafter. In Quirigua, twenty miles north of Copán, the last king Jade Sky began his rule between 895 and 900, and throughout the Maya area all kingdoms similarly fell around that time.\n\nA third piece of evidence of the progression of Maya decline, gathered by Ann Corinne Freter, Nancy Gonlin, and David Webster, uses a technique called obsidian hydration. The technique allowed them to map the spread and growth of settlements in the Copán Valley and estimate their populations. Between 400 and 450, the population was estimated at a peak of twenty-eight thousand, between 750 and 800 – larger than London at the time. Population then began to steadily decline. By 900 the population had fallen to fifteen thousand, and by 1200 the population was again less than 1000. \n\nOver 80 different theories or variations of theories attempting to explain the Classic Maya collapse have been identified. From climate change to deforestation to lack of action by Maya kings, there is no universally accepted collapse theory, although drought is gaining momentum as the leading explanation.\n\nThe archaeological evidence of the Toltec intrusion into Seibal, Peten, suggests to some the theory of foreign invasion. The latest hypothesis states that the southern lowlands were invaded by a non-Maya group whose homelands were probably in the gulf coast lowlands. This invasion began in the 9th century and set off, within 100 years, a group of events that destroyed the Classic Maya. It is believed that this invasion was somehow influenced by the Toltec people of central Mexico. However, most Mayanists do not believe that foreign invasion was the main cause of the Classic Maya collapse; they postulate that no military defeat can explain or be the cause of the protracted and complex Classic collapse process. Teotihuacan influence across the Maya region may have involved some form of military invasion; however, it is generally noted that significant Teotihuacan-Maya interactions date from at least the Early Classic period, well before the episodes of Late Classic collapse.\n\nThe foreign invasion theory does not answer the question of where the inhabitants went. David Webster believed that the population should have increased because of the lack of elite power. Further, it is not understood why the governmental institutions were not remade following the revolts, which happened under similar circumstances in places like China. A study by anthropologist Elliot M. Abrams came to the conclusion that buildings, specifically in Copan, did not require an extensive amount of time and workers to construct. However, this theory was developed during a period when the archaeological evidence showed that there were fewer Maya people than there are now known to have been. Revolutions, peasant revolts, and social turmoil change circumstances, and are often followed by foreign wars, but they run their course. There are no documented revolutions that caused wholesale abandonment of entire regions.\n\nIt has been hypothesized that the decline of the Maya is related to the collapse of their intricate trade systems, especially those connected to the central Mexican city of Teotihuacán. Preceding improved knowledge of the chronology of Mesoamerica, Teotihuacan was believed to have fallen during 700–750, forcing the \"restructuring of economic relations throughout highland Mesoamerica and the Gulf Coast\". This remaking of relationships between civilizations would have then given the collapse of the Classic Maya a slightly later date. However, after knowing more about the events and the periods when they occurred, it is believed that the strongest Teotihuacan influence was during the 4th and 5th centuries. In addition, the civilization of Teotihuacan started to lose its power, and maybe abandoned the city, during 600–650. This differs greatly from the previous belief that Teotihuacano power decreased during 700–750. But since the new decline date of 600–650 has been accepted, the Maya civilizations are now thought to have lived on and prospered “for another century and more” than what was previously believed. Rather than the decline of Teotihuacan directly preceding the collapse of the Maya, their decline is now seen as contributing “to the 6th-century ‘hiatus’”.\n\nThe disease theory is also a contender as a factor in the Classic Maya collapse. Widespread disease could explain some rapid depopulation, both directly through the spread of infection itself and indirectly as an inhibition to recovery over the long run. According to Dunn (1968) and Shimkin (1973), infectious diseases spread by parasites are common in tropical rainforest regions, such as the Maya lowlands. Shimkin specifically suggests that the Maya may have encountered endemic infections related to American trypanosomiasis, \"Ascaris\", and some enteropathogens that cause acute diarrheal illness. Furthermore, some experts believe that, through development of their civilization (that is, development of agriculture and settlements), the Maya could have created a \"disturbed environment\", in which parasitic and pathogen-carrying insects often thrive. Among the pathogens listed above, it is thought that those that cause the acute diarrheal illnesses would have been the most devastating to the Maya population, because such illness would have struck a victim at an early age, thereby hampering nutritional health and the natural growth and development of a child. This would have made them more susceptible to other diseases later in life, and would have been exacerbated by an increasing dependence on carbohydrate-rich crops. Such ideas as this could explain the role of disease as at least a possible partial reason for the Classic Maya Collapse.\n\nLarge droughts hit the Yucatán Peninsula and Petén Basin areas with particular ferocity, as thin tropical soils decline in fertility and become unworkable when deprived of forest cover, and due to regular seasonal drought drying up surface water. Colonial Spanish officials accurately documented cycles of drought, famine, disease, and war, providing a reliable historical record of the basic drought pattern in the Maya region.\n\nClimatic factors were first implicated in the collapse as early as 1931 by Mayanists Thomas Gann and J. E. S. Thompson. In \"The Great Maya Droughts\", Richardson Gill gathers and analyzes an array of climatic, historical, hydrologic, tree ring, volcanic, geologic, lake bed, and archeological research, and demonstrates that a prolonged series of droughts probably caused the Classic Maya collapse. The drought theory provides a comprehensive explanation, because non-environmental and cultural factors (excessive warfare, foreign invasion, peasant revolt, less trade, etc.) can all be explained by the effects of prolonged drought on Classic Maya civilization.\n\nClimatic changes are, with increasing frequency, found to be major drivers in the rise and fall of civilizations all over the world. Professors Harvey Weiss of Yale University and Raymond S. Bradley of the University of Massachusetts have written, \"Many lines of evidence now point to climate forcing as the primary agent in repeated social collapse.\" In a separate publication, Weiss illustrates an emerging understanding of scientists:\n\nWithin the past five years new tools and new data for archaeologists, climatologists, and historians have brought us to the edge of a new era in the study of global and hemispheric climate change and its cultural impacts. The climate of the Holocene, previously assumed static, now displays a surprising dynamism, which has affected the agricultural bases of pre-industrial societies. The list of Holocene climate alterations and their socio-economic effects has rapidly become too complex for brief summary.\nThe drought theory holds that rapid climate change in the form of severe drought brought about the Classic Maya collapse. According to the particular version put forward by Gill in \"The Great Maya Droughts\",\n\n[Studies of] Yucatecan lake sediment cores ... provide unambiguous evidence for a severe 200-year drought from AD 800 to 1000 ... the most severe in the last 7,000 years ... precisely at the time of the Maya Collapse.\nClimatic modeling, tree ring data, and historical climate data show that cold weather in the Northern Hemisphere is associated with drought in Mesoamerica. Northern Europe suffered extremely low temperatures around the same time as the Maya droughts. The same connection between drought in the Maya areas and extreme cold in northern Europe was found again at the beginning of the 20th century. Volcanic activity, within and outside Mesoamerica, is also correlated with colder weather and resulting drought, as the effects of the Tambora volcano eruption in 1815 indicate.\n\nMesoamerican civilization provides a remarkable exception: civilization prospering in the tropical swampland. The Maya are often perceived as having lived in a rainforest, but technically, they lived in a seasonal desert without access to stable sources of drinking water. The exceptional accomplishments of the Maya are even more remarkable because of their engineered response to the fundamental environmental difficulty of relying upon rainwater rather than permanent sources of water. “The Maya succeeded in creating a civilization in a seasonal desert by creating a system of water storage and management which was totally dependent on consistent rainfall.” The constant need for water kept the Maya on the edge of survival. “Given this precarious balance of wet and dry conditions, even a slight shift in the distribution of annual precipitation can have serious consequences.” Water and civilization were vitally connected in ancient Mesoamerica. Archaeologist and specialist in pre-industrial land and water usage practices Vernon Scarborough believes water management and access were critical to the development of Maya civilization.\n\nCritics of the drought theory wonder why the southern and central lowland cities were abandoned and the northern cities like Chichen Itza, Uxmal, and Coba continued to thrive. One critic argued that Chichen Itza revamped its political, military, religious, and economic institutions away from powerful lords or kings. Inhabitants of the northern Yucatán also had access to seafood, which might have explained the survival of Chichen Itza and Mayapan, cities away from the coast but within reach of coastal food supplies. Critics of the drought theory also point to current weather patterns: much heavier rainfall in the southern lowlands compared to the lighter amount of rain in the northern Yucatán. Drought theory supporters state that the entire regional climate changed, including the amount of rainfall, so that modern rainfall patterns are not indicative of rainfall from 800 to 900. LSU archaeologist Heather McKillop found a significant rise in sea level along the coast nearest the southern Maya lowlands, coinciding with the end of the Classic period, and indicating climate change.\n\nDavid Webster, a critic of the megadrought theory, says that much of the evidence provided by Gill comes from the northern Yucatán and not the southern part of the peninsula, where Classic Maya civilization flourished. He also states that if water sources were to have dried up, then several city-states would have moved to other water sources. That Gill suggests that all water in the region would have dried up and destroyed Maya civilization is a stretch, according to Webster, although Webster does not have a precise competing theory explaining the Classic Maya Collapse.\n\nA study published in \"Science\" in 2012 found that modest rainfall reductions, amounting to only 25 to 40 percent of annual rainfall, may have been the tipping point to the Maya collapse. Based on samples of lake and cave sediments in the areas surrounding major Maya cities, the researchers were able to determine the amount of annual rainfall in the region. The mild droughts that took place between 800–950 would therefore be enough to rapidly deplete seasonal water supplies in the Yucatán lowlands, where there are no rivers.\n\nA study published in \"Scientific Reports\" in 2016 showed that between 750 and 900 a cluster of four earthquakes affected the wet tropical mountains south of the Yucatán lowlands, which are not vulnerable to drought, and include such important cities as Quirigua and Copán. These earthquakes left detectable destruction in several Maya cities and led to the abandonment of Quirigua. The study hypothesizes that repeated destruction combined with declining trade with the Maya kingdoms of the Yucatán lowlands to propagate the collapse to the southern part of the Maya realm.\n\nLIDAR scanning of the Classic Maya heartlands bolsters the drought theory. A huge population as we now understand existed would not ordinarily disappear from civil war, revolution, soil degradation, disease, earthquake or other suspected factors. Drought, the absence of water in an agricultural system heavily dependent upon water, is almost the only remaining possibility for the collapse in the entire heavily populated region. The Yucatán may have provided underground water and more rainfall to permit the continuance of Mayan civilization there.\n\nSome ecological theories of Maya decline focus on the worsening agricultural and resource conditions in the late Classic period. It was originally thought that the majority of Maya agriculture was dependent on a simple slash-and-burn system. Based on this method, the hypothesis of soil exhaustion was advanced by Orator F. Cook in 1921. Similar soil exhaustion assumptions are associated with erosion, intensive agricultural, and savanna grass competition.\n\nMore recent investigations have shown a complicated variety of intensive agricultural techniques utilized by the Maya, explaining the high population of the Classic Maya polities. Modern archaeologists now comprehend the sophisticated intensive and productive agricultural techniques of the ancient Maya, and several of the Maya agricultural methods have not yet been reproduced. Intensive agricultural methods were developed and utilized by all the Mesoamerican cultures to boost their food production and give them a competitive advantage over less skillful peoples. These intensive agricultural methods included canals, terracing, raised fields, ridged fields, chinampas, the use of human feces as fertilizer, seasonal swamps or \"bajos\", using muck from the \"bajos\" to create fertile fields, dikes, dams, irrigation, water reservoirs, several types of water storage systems, hydraulic systems, swamp reclamation, swidden systems, and other agricultural techniques that have not yet been fully understood. Systemic ecological collapse is said to be evidenced by deforestation, siltation, and the decline of biological diversity.\n\nIn addition to mountainous terrain, Mesoamericans successfully exploited the very problematic tropical rainforest for 1,500 years. The agricultural techniques utilized by the Maya were entirely dependent upon ample supplies of water, lending credit to the drought theory of collapse. The Maya thrived in territory that would be uninhabitable to most peoples. Their success over two millennia in this environment was \"amazing.\"\n\nAnthropologist Joseph Tainter wrote extensively about the collapse of the Southern Lowland Maya in his 1988 study \"The Collapse of Complex Societies\". His theory about Maya collapse encompasses some of the above explanations, but focuses specifically on the development of and the declining marginal returns from the increasing social complexity of the competing Maya city-states. Psychologist Julian Jaynes suggested that the collapse was due to a failure in the social control systems of religion and political authority, due to increasing socioeconomic complexity that overwhelmed the power of traditional rituals and the king's authority to compel obedience.\n\n"}
{"id": "32355078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32355078", "title": "Crown of Ranavalona III", "text": "Crown of Ranavalona III\n\nThe Crown of Queen Ranavalona III is a royal crown that was worn by Ranavalona III (November 22, 1861 - May 23, 1917), the last queen of the Kingdom of Imerina, which extended its authority over most of the island of Madagascar throughout the 19th century. Ranavalona ruled from July 30, 1883 to February 28, 1897 when she was deposed by France, which subsequently ruled the island as a colony.\n\nThe crown is permanently exhibited in Paris, France at the Museum of the Army, which is housed within the \"French Hôtel National des Invalides\" National Palace. Les Invalides was built in the 17th century (1671-1676) and is located in the 7th arrondissement of Paris, 400 meters from the Military Academy. Originally a royal residence for French soldiers and disabled, elderly or retired former soldiers, the building now houses several museums and religious facilities as well as different services and agencies for former combatants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47548141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47548141", "title": "DVV Danayya", "text": "DVV Danayya\n\nDVV Danayya is an Indian film producer in Telugu film industry. He started his career with the fantasy blockbuster film Jamba Lakidi Pamba in 1993. \n\nDanayya was born in Tallapudi (West Godavari Dist), on 1 April 1962.\n"}
{"id": "1015016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1015016", "title": "Degenerative disease", "text": "Degenerative disease\n\nDegenerative disease is the result of a continuous process based on degenerative cell changes, affecting tissues or organs, which will increasingly deteriorate over time.\n\nIn neurodegenerative diseases cells of the central nervous system stop working or die via neurodegeneration. An example of this is Alzheimer's disease. The other two common groups of degenerative diseases are those that affect circulatory system (e.g. coronary artery disease) and neoplastic diseases (e.g. cancers).\n\nMany degenerative diseases exist and some are related to aging. Normal bodily wear or lifestyle choices (such as exercise or eating habits) may worsen degenerative diseases, but this depends on the disease. Sometimes the main or partial cause behind such diseases is genetic. Thus some are clearly hereditary like Huntington's disease. Sometimes the cause is viruses, poisons or other chemicals. The cause may also be unknown.\n\nSome degenerative diseases can be cured, but not always. It might still be possible to alleviate the symptoms.\n\n"}
{"id": "8787180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8787180", "title": "Demographic history of Transnistria", "text": "Demographic history of Transnistria\n\nA demographic history of Transnistria shows that actual Transnistria has been home to numerous ethnic groups, in varying proportions, over time. \n\nThe word \"Transnistria\" means literally \"lands beyond the Dniester.\" This river is called the Nistru in the Romanian language. These lands are historically related to the neo-Latin populations that lived east of the Dniester River. The territory of Transnistria is only a small area of these lands, and the most easterly extent of Transnistriam territory peaked during World War II reaching to the Bug River. Ethnic Moldavians (Romanians), however, have lived near the Don river since as far back as 1712.\n\nIn the coastal area of these lands, during the Roman Empire, there were small cities of nearly 5,000 inhabitants such as Tyras and Olbia. Roman colonists settled in these areas under the protection of Roman legionaries. The interior of Transnistria was sparsely populated by eastern European tribal groups. The region between the Dniester River and the Bug River, having a steppe topography, was continuously subjected to invasion during the Middle Ages by imperial and tribal forces. \n\nBeside the droughty periods typical for the region, the second reason for the underpopulation of the Black Sea northern shores is the vicinity of the Tatars. Their presence, both military and civil, impeded the settling of the east European type life and blocked the Moldavian or even Polish expansion to the east. The Transnistrian lands settled in the Middle Ages by Romanians were only partially and temporarily ruled by Moldavian princes or possessions of the Moldavian Principality. Probably those Moldavians living east of the Dniester were only a few thousands.\n\nThe steppe around the Bug river was mostly depopulated in the 13th and 14th centuries because of the Golden Horde, according to some travelers (like in the \"Chorographia Moldaviae\" of Georg Reicherstorfer, written in 1541). They found there only some Vlach (Romanian/Moldavian) shepherds and a few Moldavian and Slav villages.\n\nMeanwhile, the Romanian/Moldavian colonization east of Dniester -that had started around the year 1000 AD- had reached the Kiev area in the 15th century and in 1712 even the Don river, with the Dimitrie Cantemir leadership.\n\nEthnically the area of Transnistria between the Dniester and the Bug rivers -even if depopulated- was probably 2/3 moldavian speaking (while between the Bug and the Dnieper rivers most of the population was slav), when Russia started to conquest it. Indeed, according to the results of the census (quoted in Romanian sources) of 1793 AD, 49 villages out of 67 between the Dniester and the Bug were Romanian.\n\nIn 1792, the whole territory between the Dniester and the Bug rivers (that historically was part of the Yedisan territory of the expelled Nogais) became part of the Russian Empire. At that time, the population was sparse and the Russian Empire encouraged large migrations into the region, including ethnic Ukrainians, Romanians, Russians and Germans.\n\nRussia began attempting to lure Romanian settlers (mostly from Moldavia, but also from Transylvania, Bukovina and Muntenia) to settle in its territory in 1775. But the colonization was to a larger scale after 1792, to Transnistria and beyond, when the Russian government declared that the region between the Dniester and the Bug was to become a new principality named \"New Moldavia\", under Russian suzerainty.\n\nAfter 1812, Russia annexed from Moldavia a territory which became known as Bessarabia (located west of the Dniester and up to the Prut River), while a process of russification started to be done with the Moldavian/Romanian populations east of the Dniester River (Transnistria).\n\nSince the Soviet era, Transnistria is home to three major groups: Moldovans forming a plurality alongside Russians and Ukrainians.\n\nHistorically, after one century of russification, the Moldovans were no more the majority of population in the areas of the Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (MASSR) established, in 1924, within the Ukrainian SSR. MASSR was limited to some areas east of the Dniester, until Balta. East of Balta, most of the Romanians (Moldavians) -settled there since the end of Tartar attacks in the 16th century- were already assimilated by the slavs in the early 20th century (but there were nearly 100,000 Moldovan speaking living east of the MASSR and up to the Dnieper river.).\nAccording to the 1926 Soviet census, the Moldavian ASSR had a population of 572,339, of which:\n\nDespite this relatively extensive territory allotted to the MASSR, more than 85,000 Moldovans remained in Ukraine (and Soviet Russia) outside the territory of MASSR.\nIn 1941, during World War II, when Romania created the Transnistria Governorate, an extended territory from the Dniester up to the Bug, most of the population was Ukrainian/Russian and only nearly 10% was Romanian. In this way, from 1941 to 1944 the Romanian \"irredentism\" had obtained the union of nearly 200,000 ethnic Romanians to their motherland, after the loss of Northern Transylvania to Hungary. Even Odessa was subject to Romanian administration, as the city had been made part of Transnistria Governorate.\n\nIn December 1941, Romanian authorities conducted a census in Transnistria Governorate, and the ethnic structure was the following:\n\nWhen the Soviet reconquered the area in 1944, they created the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic (with around half of the former MASSR included), where ethnic Moldovans were the majority.\n\nNote: \"-\" means the official census data does not identify that group in that year, i.e. counts it within other groups, not that the group is not present.\n\nIn the years of the latter half of the 20th century, the ethnic proportions have changed in large measure due to industrialization and the immigration of Russian and Ukrainian workers. During the Soviet rule, up to one million people settled in Moldova.\n\nIn Transnistria, the trend continued after 1991, too, and the Moldovan population in decreased between 1989 and 2004 from 39% to 32% of the total population.\n\nIn 2004, the Moldovans were still the most numerous ethnic group, representing an overall majority in the two districts in the central Transnistria (Dubăsari District, 50.15%, and Grigoriopol District, 64.83%), a 47.82% relative majority in the northern Camenca District, and a 41.52% relative majority in the southern (Slobozia District). In Rîbniţa District they are a 29.90% minority, and in the city of Tiraspol, they constitute a 15.24% minority of the population.\n\nRussians were the second numerous ethnic group, representing a 41.64% relative majority in the city of Tiraspol, a 24.07% minority in Slobozia, a 19.03% minority in Dubăsari, a 17.22% minority in Râbniţa, a 15.28% minority in Grigoriopol, and a 6.89% minority in Camenca.\n\nUkrainians are the third numerous ethnic group, representing a 45.41% relative majority in the northern Rîbniţa District, a 42.55% minority in Camenca, a 32.97% minority in Tiraspol, a 28.29% minority in Dubăsari, a 23.42% minority in Slobozia, and a 17.36% minority in Grigoriopol.\n\nAs of 2015, the Moldovans are not anymore the largest single group of the Transnistria region (being surpassed by the Russians)?.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34371", "title": "Demographics of Serbia and Montenegro", "text": "Demographics of Serbia and Montenegro\n\nThe demographics of Serbia and Montenegro comprise the populations of Serbia and Montenegro.\n\nThe total population of this region is 10,600,000 (Serbia - 9,981,929; Montenegro - 620,000). In 2000, in Serbia, 19.95% of the population was 14 and under (male 1,028,355; female 963,366); in Montenegro, it was 22.05% (male 77,582; female 72,395). 65.22% of Serbians (male 3,187,746; female 3,322,425) and 66.16% of Montenegrins (male 222,095; female 227,923) were between 15 and 64. 14.83% of Serbians (male 638,204; female 841,833) and 11.79% of Montenegrins (male 32,400; female 47,763) were 65 and over.\n\nEstimeates in 2000 placed Serbia's population growth rate at 0.739% and Montenegro's at -12.22%. The respective birth rates were 12.20/1000 (Serbia) and 14.9/1000 (Montenegro); death rates were 11.08/1000 (Serbia) and 7.9/1000 (Montenegro). The net migration rate was 6.29/1000 in Serbia and -29.18/1,000 in Montenegro. Total fertility rates were 1.7 children/woman in Serbia and 2.0 children/woman in Montenegro.\nIn 2000, Serbia's infant mortality rate was 20.13 deaths/1,000 live births; Montenegro's was 10.97 deaths/1,000 live births. Total life expectancy at birth was 72.39 years in Serbia (69.31 for males, 75.72 for females) and 75.46 in Montenegro (71.45 for males, 79.82 for females).\n\nEthnic groups in the region were represented as follows: Serb 62.6%, Albanian 16.5%, Montenegrin 5%, Yugoslav 3.4%, Hungarian 3.3%, other 9.2% (as of 1001). In terms of religion, 65% of inhabitants were Eastern Orthodox, 19% Muslim, 4% Roman Catholic, 1% Protestant 1%, and 11% other. The main languages spoken in Serbia and Montenegro are Serbian, Albanian, Croatian, Bosnian and Hungarian.\n\nIn 2002, 96.4% of the population aged 15 and over could read and write (98.9% of males, 94.1% of females).\n\n"}
{"id": "24275276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24275276", "title": "Direct Behavior Rating", "text": "Direct Behavior Rating\n\nDirect Behavior Rating (DBR) is a behavior assessment method that educational professionals, such as school psychologists and teachers, use to monitor student behavior. It is characterized by:\n\nDirect Behavior Rating typically involves four steps:\n\nDirect Behavior Rating represents an amalgamation of characteristics from two major types of behavior collection systems: systematic direct observation and behavior rating scales. According to a survey performed in 2006, over 60% of classroom teachers report that they employ DBR or DBR-like tools within their classrooms and view it as a highly acceptable intervention tool. Recent research further indicates the acceptability of the measure to school psychologists who are frequently responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of research-based classroom interventions.\n\nDBR is not restricted to a single form of assessment. Rather, it is a methodology that can be used with a wide range of behaviors, contexts, and applications. One common distinction is made between DBR scales that consist of solely one item representing a behavioral construct (i.e., disruptive behavior) (Single Item Scales, or DBR-SIS) and those that consist of multiple items that are individually scored and then aggregated to depict a single construct (i.e., \"Inappropriately calls out during instruction,\" \"Pokes other students during instruction\") (Multiple Item Scales, or DBR-MIS). The majority of DBR research has focused on the Single Item Scale format, the content of which is intended to be flexibly determined based on the rating's context and then graphed and summarized independently of other Single Item Scales. While each DBR-SIS individually measures a single behavioral construct, the utility of using multiple Single Item Scales as general outcome measures for school-based social behavior has also been examined.\n\nResearch has also investigated the feasibility of incorporating DBR into intervention packages. One study used DBR as a combined intervention and assessment tool through its use as a self-monitoring intervention. Literature examining the use of daily behavior report cards or daily progress reports often use DBR methodology as an integral part of their intervention and assessment construction. More resources regarding behavior report cards are available at: \n\nGiven its promising psychometric properties, contextual relevance, and usability by practitioners with restricted resources (e.g., teachers), DBR has also been suggested as a possible assessment tool within multi-tiered intervention frameworks such as Response to Intervention.\n\n"}
{"id": "692262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692262", "title": "Economic system", "text": "Economic system\n\nAn economic system (also economic order) is a system of production, resource allocation and distribution of goods and services within a society or a given geographic area. It includes the combination of the various institutions, agencies, entities, decision-making processes and patterns of consumption that comprise the economic structure of a given community. As such, an economic system is a type of social system. The mode of production is a related concept. All economic systems have three basic questions to ask: what to produce, how to produce and in what quantities and who receives the output of production.\n\nThe study of economic systems includes how these various agencies and institutions are linked to one another, how information flows between them and the social relations within the system (including property rights and the structure of management). The analysis of economic systems traditionally focused on the dichotomies and comparisons between market economies and planned economies and on the distinctions between capitalism and socialism. Subsequently, the categorization of economic systems expanded to include other topics and models that do not conform to the traditional dichotomy. Today the dominant form of economic organization at the world level is based on market-oriented mixed economies.\n\nEconomic systems is the category in the \"Journal of Economic Literature\" classification codes that includes the study of such systems. One field that cuts across them is comparative economic systems, which include the following subcategories of different systems: \n\nThere are multiple components to economic system. Decision-making structures of an economy determine the use of economic inputs (the factors of production), distribution of output, the level of centralization in decision-making and who makes these decisions. Decisions might be carried out by industrial councils, by a government agency, or by private owners. An economic system is a system of production, resource allocation, exchange and distribution of goods and services in a society or a given geographic area. In one view, every economic system represents an attempt to solve three fundamental and interdependent problems:\n\nEvery economy is thus a system that allocates resources for exchange, production, distribution and consumption. The system is stabilized through a combination of threat and trust, which are the outcome of institutional arrangements. An economic system possesses the following institutions:\n\nThere are several basic questions that must be answered in order for an economy to run satisfactorily. The scarcity problem, for example, requires answers to basic questions, such as what to produce, how to produce it and who gets what is produced. An economic system is a way of answering these basic questions and different economic systems answer them differently. Many different objectives may be seen as desirable for an economy, like efficiency, growth, liberty and equality.\n\nEconomic systems are commonly segmented by their property rights regime for the means of production and by their dominant resource allocation mechanism. Economies that combine private ownership with market allocation are called \"market capitalism\" and economies that combine private ownership with economic planning are labelled \"command capitalism\" or dirigisme. Likewise, systems that mix public or cooperative ownership of the means of production with economic planning are called \"socialist planned economies\" and systems that combine public or cooperative ownership with markets are called \"market socialism\". Some perspectives build upon this basic nomenclature to take other variables into account, such as class processes within an economy. This leads some economists to categorize, for example, the Soviet Union's economy as state capitalism based on the analysis that the working class was exploited by the party leadership. Instead of looking at nominal ownership, this perspective takes into account the organizational form within economic enterprises.\n\nIn a capitalist economic system, production is carried out for private profit and decisions regarding investment and allocation of factor inputs are determined by business owners in factor markets. The means of production are primarily owned by private enterprises and decisions regarding production and investment are determined by private owners in capital markets. Capitalist systems range from \"laissez-faire\", with minimal government regulation and state enterprise, to regulated and social market systems, with the aims of ameliorating market failures (see economic intervention) or supplementing the private marketplace with social policies to promote equal opportunities (see welfare state), respectively.\n\nIn socialist economic systems (socialism), production for use is carried out; decisions regarding the use of the means of production are adjusted to satisfy economic demand; and investment is determined through economic planning procedures. There is a wide range of proposed planning procedures and ownership structures for socialist systems, with the common feature among them being the social ownership of the means of production. This might take the form of public ownership by all of the society, or ownership cooperatively by their employees. A socialist economic system that features social ownership, but that it is based on the process of capital accumulation and utilization of capital markets for the allocation of capital goods between socially-owned enterprises falls under the subcategory of market socialism.\n\nThe basic and general \"modern\" economic systems segmented by the criterium of resource allocation mechanism are:\n\nOther related types:\n\n\nVarious strains of anarchism and libertarianism advocate different economic systems, all of which have very small or no government involvement. These include:\n\nCorporatism refers to economic tripartite involving negotiations between business, labor and state interest groups to establish economic policy, or more generally to assigning people to political groups based on their occupational affiliation.\n\nCertain subsets of an economy, or the particular goods, services, techniques of production, or moral rules can also be described as an \"economy\". For example, some terms emphasize specific sectors or externalizes:\n\nOthers emphasize a particular religion:\n\nThe type of labour power:\n\nOr the means of production:\n\nCapitalism generally features the private ownership of the means of production (capital) and a market economy for coordination. Corporate capitalism refers to a capitalist marketplace characterized by the dominance of hierarchical, bureaucratic corporations.\n\nMercantilism was the dominant model in Western Europe from the 16th to 18th century. This encouraged imperialism and colonialism until economic and political changes resulted in global decolonization. Modern capitalism has favored free trade to take advantages of increased efficiency due to national comparative advantage and economies of scale in a larger, more universal market. Some critics have applied the term neo-colonialism to the power imbalance between multi-national corporations operating in a free market vs. seemingly impoverished people in developing countries.\n\nThere is no precise definition of a \"mixed economy\". Theoretically, it may refer to an economic system that combines one of three characteristics: public and private ownership of industry, market-based allocation with economic planning, or free markets with state interventionism.\n\nIn practice, \"mixed economy\" generally refers to market economies with substantial state interventionism and/or sizable public sector alongside a dominant private sector. Actually, mixed economies gravitate more heavily to one end of the spectrum. Notable economic models and theories that have been described as a \"mixed economy\" include the following:\n\nSocialist economic systems (all of which feature social ownership of the means of production) can be subdivided by their coordinating mechanism (planning and markets) into planned socialist and market socialist systems. Additionally, socialism can be divided based on their property structures between those that are based on public ownership, worker or consumer cooperatives and common ownership (i.e. non-ownership). Communism is a hypothetical stage of socialist development articulated by Karl Marx as \"second stage socialism\" in \"Critique of the Gotha Program\", whereby the economic output is distributed based on need and not simply on the basis of labor contribution.\n\nThe original conception of socialism involved the substitution of money as a unit of calculation and monetary prices as a whole with calculation in kind (or a valuation based on natural units), with business and financial decisions replaced by engineering and technical criteria for managing the economy. Fundamentally, this meant that socialism would operate under different economic dynamics than those of capitalism and the price system. Later models of socialism developed by neoclassical economists (most notably Oskar Lange and Abba Lerner) were based on the use of notional prices derived from a trial-and-error approach to achieve market clearing prices on the part of a planning agency. These models of socialism were called \"market socialism\" because they included a role for markets, money and prices.\n\nThe primary emphasis of socialist planned economies is to coordinate production to produce economic output to directly satisfy economic demand as opposed to the indirect mechanism of the profit system where satisfying needs is subordinate to the pursuit of profit; and to advance the productive forces of the economy in a more efficient manner while being immune to the perceived systemic inefficiencies (cyclical processes) and crisis of overproduction so that production would be subject to the needs of society as opposed to being ordered around capital accumulation.\n\nIn a pure socialist planned economy that involves different processes of resource allocation, production and means of quantifying value, the use of money would be replaced with a different measure of value and accounting tool that would embody more accurate information about an object or resource. In practice, the economic system of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc operated as a command economy, featuring a combination of state-owned enterprises and central planning using the material balances method. The extent to which these economic systems achieved socialism or represented a viable alternative to capitalism is subject to debate.\n\nIn orthodox Marxism, the mode of production is tantamount to the subject of this article, determining with a superstructure of relations the entirety of a given culture or stage of human development.\n\nKarl Marx's theory of economic development was based on the premise of evolving economic systems. Specifically, in his view over the course of history superior economic systems would replace inferior ones. \"Inferior\" systems were beset by \"internal contradictions\" and \"inefficiencies\" that make them \"impossible\" to survive over the long term. In Marx's scheme, feudalism was replaced by capitalism, which would eventually be superseded by socialism. Joseph Schumpeter had an evolutionary conception of economic development, but unlike Marx he de-emphasized the role of class struggle in contributing to qualitative change in the economic mode of production. In subsequent world history, communist states run according to Marxist–Leninist ideologies have either collapsed or gradually reformed their centrally-planned economies toward market-based economies, for example with perestroika and the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Chinese economic reform and Đổi Mới in Vietnam.\n\nMainstream evolutionary economics continues to study economic change in modern times. There has also been renewed interest in understanding economic systems as evolutionary systems in the emerging field of complexity economics.\n\nAn economic system can be considered a part of the social system and hierarchically equal to the law system, political system, cultural and so on. There is often a strong correlation between certain ideologies, political systems and certain economic systems (for example, consider the meanings of the term \"communism\"). Many economic systems overlap each other in various areas (for example, the term \"mixed economy\" can be argued to include elements from various systems). There are also various mutually exclusive hierarchical categorizations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2222152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2222152", "title": "Edward C. Prado", "text": "Edward C. Prado\n\nEdward Charles Prado (born June 7, 1947) is the United States Ambassador to Argentina. He is a former United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.\n\nPrado was born in San Antonio, Texas on June 7, 1947. He received an Associate of Arts degree from San Antonio College. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Texas at Austin in May 1969 and received his Juris Doctor in 1972 from University of Texas School of Law.\n\nPrado served as an Assistant District Attorney in the Bexar County District Attorney’s Office. Thereafter, in 1976 he served in the Federal Public Defender's Office in the Western District of Texas as an Assistant Public Defender. In 1980, Prado was appointed to serve as a Texas state District Judge in Bexar County. In 1981, President Ronald Reagan appointed Judge Prado to serve as the United States Attorney for the Western District of Texas. In 1984, Reagan appointed Prado to the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas. He remained on that court until he was elevated to the Fifth Circuit.\n\nPrado was nominated on February 6, 2003 by President George W. Bush to fill a vacancy on the Fifth Circuit created by Judge Robert Manley Parker, who retired outright from the federal bench on November 1, 2002 to return to private law practice.\n\nHe was confirmed by the United States Senate on May 1, 2003, just under three months after his nomination. Prado was the second judge nominated to the Fifth Circuit by Bush and confirmed by the Senate. He retired from the Fifth Circuit on April 2, 2018, prior to taking office as Ambassador to Argentina.\n\nJudge Prado has been a leader in numerous bar associations and law-related organizations. He has been a member of the Texas and San Antonio Bar Associations since 1972, including service as a President, and later Director and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the San Antonio Bar Foundation. Judge Prado serves on the Texas State Bar Crime Victims Committee, and was appointed by Chief Justice Rehnquist to serve as the Chairman of the Criminal Justice Act Review Committee, from 1991 to 1993.\n\nJudge Prado also has been actively involved in community and charitable affairs as a member in community organizations such as: St. Mark’s Catholic Church, the Witte Museum Community Advisory Committee, the Philosophical Society of Texas, the Rotary Club of San Antonio and Leadership San Antonio. Judge Prado has reached out to children in the San Antonio community by conducting events in his courtroom as an introduction to the law.\n\nHe has received many honors and awards, including the following: St. Thomas More Award, St. Mary's University School of Law (2000); Outstanding Alumnus, San Antonio College (1989); LULAC State Award for Excellence (1981); Edgewood I.S.D. Hall of Fame (1981); Achievement Award, U.S. Attorney General (1980); Outstanding Young Lawyer of San Antonio (1980); and Outstanding Federal Public Defender, Western District of Texas (1978).\n\nOn January 17, 2018, President Donald Trump announced his intent to nominate Prado to be the next United States Ambassador to Argentina. His nomination was sent to the Senate on January 19, 2018. On March 7, 2018, Prado testified before the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.\n\nOn March 20, 2018, his nomination was reported out of committee. His nomination was confirmed by voice vote on March 22, 2018.\n\nOn May 8, 2018, Prado arrived in Argentina, and presented his credentials to the President of Argentina, Mauricio Macri, allowing him to perform his duties as the 56th U.S. Ambassador to Argentina.\n\n"}
{"id": "49549322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49549322", "title": "Environmental impacts of tourism in the Caribbean", "text": "Environmental impacts of tourism in the Caribbean\n\nThe economy in the Caribbean region is highly dependent on its tourism industry; in 2013, this industry constituted 14% of their total GDP. This region is largely appealing for the sun, sand, and sea scene. Despite the fact that tourism is very reliant on the natural environment of the region, it has negative environmental impacts. These impacts include marine pollution and degradation, as well as a high demand for water and energy resources. In particular, the degradation of coral reefs has a large impact on the environment of the Caribbean. Environmental damage affects the tourism industry; therefore, the tourism sector, along with the public sector, makes efforts to protect the environment for economic and ethical reasons. Although these efforts are not always effective, there are continuous efforts for improvement.\n\nThere are multiple environmental impacts caused by tourism in the Caribbean. One of the causes is the high demand of resources, such as water and energy, in part because of the high levels of tourism; which occurs because the tourism industry provides extravagant lifestyle options or tourists. For instance, visitors use about three times the amount of water per day than residents. Furthermore, waste management from the tourism industry is inefficient and the waste services in most of these countries cannot cope with the large numbers of tourists, who are estimated to generate up to four times more solid waste than residents.\nAnother impact of tourism is marine pollution from cruise ships discharging waste into the sea. One single trip of a large cruise ship on average produces 210,000 gallons of sewage, 1,000,000 gallons of greywater, 125 gallons of toxic chemicals and hazardous waste, 8 tons of garbage and 25,000 gallons of oily bilge water. Although there have been attempts to regulate this kind of discharge, most of this waste is still dumped into the sea (Tourism in the Caribbean, Duval 2004). Some cruise ships are managing their waste by reducing the impact through advanced sewage systems, shipboard recycling programs, and increased use of biodegradable alternatives to plastic. However, their industry has increased about 60% from the 1980s to 2003. Therefore, they reduce the damage of their discharge but increase the quantity discharged.\n\nThis type of marine litter damages the wildlife and the environment in which they live; for instance, it affects 14% of Caribbean coral reefs. This is not the only way that tourism is affecting the coral reefs; cruise ships and boats anchoring in coral reefs areas have also caused their depletion. For example, in January 2016, Paul Allan’s 300-foot yacht destroyed 14,000 square feet of reef in the Cayman Islands; this was about 80% of the coral in the area. These types of damages can be subject to fines but often go without government intervention and fines. In addition, scuba diving affects the nature of the coral reefs, in many cases changing the coral ecosystem and making them more susceptible to decreases. Coral reefs are particularly important in this region because they form part of the marine life and they provide protection to the coastal line.\n\nTourism also causes other indirect environmental impacts. For instance, it causes a lot of people to resettle in tourist areas; thus having a high requirement for housing and infrastructure. This requirement is not met, which leads to problems of solid and liquid waste disposal due to inadequate infrastructure. (Dixon, 2001, p. 7) The GIWA Regional Assessment 4 for the Islands of the Greater Antilles demonstrated that the impacts of liquid waste in this sub-region include fish mortality, eutrophication, and threats to coral reefs, swamp ecosystems and seagrass beds.\n\nEcotourism is one of the solutions that have been applied for more sustainable tourism development. In the Caribbean island nation of Dominica, this solution has been applied. Although this is a better alternative for tourism, it does not ensure the protection of the environment. A study in Dominica demonstrated that the main benefit of ecotourism is economic growth rather than effective nature preservation. On the contrary, the growth of the industry is increasing the numbers of tourists, which causes a strain on the resources and the environment of the region.\n\nIn 1983, the Convention for the Protection and Development of the Marine Environment of the Wider Caribbean Region has been an important regional framework for the protection of the Caribbean Sea. This convention helped by establishing a series of protocols directed at the protection of the environment of the Caribbean. Furthermore, enforcing regulations, Barbados presents a great example of protecting the environment through Market-Based Instruments. These instruments include duty and tariff relief of environmental equipment by hotels, and tax-deductible installation of taps and water heads. Market-Based Instruments work as incentives for the enhancement of the industry practices.\n\nMoreover, tourism vastly relies on the environment because people go to the Caribbean nations for their seaside ambiance. Here the environment is used to generate economic rents, which are the costs to tourist for the use of resources. For example, the premium people pay for rooms with ocean view. This reliance on the environment also works as an incentive for the tourism sector to develop a self-regulating system. Some of these systems include the Green Globe and Blue Flag certification schemes; which represent a sense of ecologic consciousness from the tourism sector. These schemes endorse industry accountability and provide them credibility to the public. The Caribbean Alliance for Sustainable Tourism has worked with Green Globe to develop these certifications throughout the Caribbean.\n\n"}
{"id": "36952361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36952361", "title": "Ethnic issues in the Philippines", "text": "Ethnic issues in the Philippines\n\nEthnic issues in the Philippines are multifarious and emerged in various portions of the history of people, institutions and territories coinciding to that of the present-day Philippines.\n\nPolls have shown that some Filipinos hold negative views directed against the Moro people.\n\nContact between the indigenous peoples of the islands and the Han began hundreds of years ago, predating the arrival of Westerners. Strong ties through trade and commerce sustained ancient states such as the Kingdom of Tondo. The Sultanate of Sulu also has significant relationship with the Ming Dynasty whereas its leader Paduka Batara, granted the only foreign monument in China, was sent with his sons to pay tribute to Emperor Yung Lo. Despite years of contact, the rift between the two groups emerged at the height of the Spanish colonization.\n\nAfter the destructive raids of various ports and towns including the newly Spanish-established Manila by Chinese pirate Limahong, the colonial government saw the Chinese as a threat and decided to curb the Sangley in the colony by ethnic segregation and immigration control. Assimilation by conversion to Catholicism was also enforced by the governor-general Gómez Pérez Dasmariñas in the late 16th century. Only Catholic Sangleys, Indio wives and their Mestizo de Sangley children were granted land such as in Parían and nearby Binondo. However, these measures to attain racial control were seen to be difficult to achieve. As a result, four massacres, the first happening in 1603, and expulsions ensued against unconverted Sangleys. Other ethnic-motivated incidents were during the massacre of Sangleys as a retaliation to Koxinga's raids of several towns in Luzon during 1662. This resulted in a failed invasion. It was said that although the ethnic Chinese in the island themselves distanced from the military leader, anti-Chinese sentiments among locals grew and led to killings in the Manila area. Another event is after the 1762 British occupation of Manila amidst the Seven Years' War. As the Spanish, who regained control of invaded Manila and nearby port province of Cavite, many non-natives specifically Spanish, Mestizos, Chinese and Indians were imprisoned for supporting the British.\n\nThe Spanish colonial government imposed legislation on the ethnic Chinese, which were viewed unfavorably. Such laws were meant to Christianize the ethnic Chinese, aid them assimilate into mainstream Philippine society and to encourage them to take up farming. The Chinese were viewed as an economic, political and socio-religious threat to the small Spaniard colonial population in Spanish Philippines.\n\nSince recently, sinophobia and racism against the ethnic Chinese have grown due to the South China Sea dispute.\n\nEthnic divide among highland tribes began from the conception of a Philippine state notably during the United States-appointed Commonwealth of the Philippines. In order to actualize the dream of a unified Philippine identity, the said Commonwealth government established the Institute of National Language (Tagalog: \"Surian ng Wikang Pambansâ\") which adopted Tagalog as the national language.\n\nThe rights of the Philippines highland groups are legally protected under Indigenous Peoples’ Rights Act (IPRA) which is cited as the first of its kind in Southeast Asia. The law enabled them to acquire titles to their ancestral domains. However the highlanders continue to experience some degree of discrimination and are described by cultural anthropologist Nestor Castro that “They still cannot identify with the so-called mainstream society or culture.” Highlanders particularly experience marginalization in urban areas such as in Manila.\n"}
{"id": "25948533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25948533", "title": "G. T. Abraham", "text": "G. T. Abraham\n\nG. T. Abraham (died 15.2.2018) was Bishop - in - Diocese of Nandyal of the Church of South India. He also taught Christian Ministry at the Andhra Christian Theological College. Hyderabad\n\nAbraham studied sciences at the Government Arts College in Kadapa. He later enrolled at the United Theological College, Bengaluru and studied theology (B. D.) during 1962-1966 when Joshua Russell Chandran was the College Principal. As part of the University requirements, Abraham submitted a dissertation entitled \"An Estimate of the Missionary and Pastoral Ministry of Bishop Azariah from 1922 to 1945\" after which the Senate of Serampore College (University) under the Registrarship of Chetti Devasahayam awarded him a graduate degree. Later, Abraham was assigned pastoral roles in the parishes of Nandyal Diocese.\nAbraham later undertook post-graduate studies in theology at the Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria, Virginia leading to a Master of Theology in 1983 and returned for parish work in the Diocese. He was later deputed to teach at the Andhra Christian Theological College, Hyderabad.\n\nIn 1967, after the Diocese of Nandyal ordained Abraham, he pastored parishes within the Diocese which was still experimenting with the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel and the Church of North India and finally the Church of South India.\n\nDuring the Principalship of Suppogu Joseph, STBC at the Protestant Regional Theologiate in Secunderabad, Abraham joined as Faculty Member in 1987 and began teaching Theology to ministerial aspirants in a near-ecumenical setting of Anglicans, Baptists, Lutherans, Methodists, Wesleyan Methodists and others from the small and indigenous Churches during the teaching tenures of M. Victor Paul, AELC, G. Dyvasirvadam, CSI, R. Yesurathnam, CSI and other notable faculty that included the Serampore College \"{the only constituent College of the Senate of Serampore College (University)}\" duo, namely P. Joseph, STBC and the Old Testament Scholar, G. Babu Rao, CBCNC.\n\nWhen Abraham joined the Andhra Christian Theological College in Secunderabad in 1987, he became the third Spiritual Formator to have taught at the Seminary, with the first two being, B. E. Devaraj and Ryder Devapriam who taught at Rajahmundry and Secunderabad during the Sixties and the Seventies respectively.\n\nIn 1992, Ryder Devapriam breathed his last during an overseas visitation to Germany leading to \"Sede vacante\" in the Diocese of Nandyal leading to the direct supervision of the ecclesiastical affairs by the Church of South India Synod led by Vasanth P. Dandin for nearly two years' until 1994 when the Synod conducted elections and declared Abraham as the Bishop.\n\nAfter more than a decade of serving as Bishop - in - Nandyal, Abraham retired on attaining superannuation in 2005.\n\nWhile attending the Lambeth Conference, 1998, the Virginia Theological Seminary conferred upon Abraham an honorary doctorate at a special academic convocation on 27 July 1998 in Canterbury Cathedral's Crypt in Canterbury, Kent by Bishop Peter James Lee of Episcopal Diocese of Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47128376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47128376", "title": "Gallinas people", "text": "Gallinas people\n\nThe Gallinas people are an ethnic group in Liberia, which formerly existed as an independent chiefdom.\n\nIn 1868 and 1869, the Liberian government rated the chiefdoms of the Gbenmah and Gallinas.\n\nIn 1882, the king and chiefs of Gallinas ceded a piece of coastal territory to the British government.\n\nKing Siacca was king of the Gallinas in 1840, when Joseph Denman contacted him as regards the plight of Fry Norman, a Black British woman who he understood had been seized by Siacca's son Prince Manna.\n"}
{"id": "14216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14216", "title": "Hausa language", "text": "Hausa language\n\nHausa (; \"Yaren Hausa\" or \"Harshen Hausa\") is the Chadic language (a branch of the Afroasiatic language family) with the largest number of speakers, spoken as a first language by some 44 million people, and as a second language by another 20 million. The total number of Hausa speakers is estimated at 63 million, according to Ethnologue.\nThe ancestral language of the Hausa people, one of the largest ethnic groups in Central Africa, Hausa is mostly spoken throughout southern Niger and northern Nigeria. It is also a recognised minority language in the United States. It has developed into a lingua franca across much of Western Africa for purposes of trade.\n\nHausa belongs to the West Chadic languages subgroup of the Chadic languages group, which in turn is part of the Afroasiatic language family.\n\nNative speakers of Hausa, the Hausa people, are mostly found in Niger, in Northern Nigeria, and in Chad. Furthermore, the language is used as a \"lingua franca\" by non-native speakers in most of Northern Nigeria and Southern Niger, and as a trade language across a much larger swathe of West Africa (Benin, Ghana, Cameroon, Togo, Ivory Coast) and parts of Sudan).\n\nEastern Hausa dialects include \"Dauranchi\" in Daura, \"Kananci\" in Kano, \"Bausanchi\" in Bauchi, \"Gudduranci\" in Katagum Misau and part of Borno, and \"Hadejanci\" in Hadejiya.\n\nWestern Hausa dialects include \"Sakkwatanci\" in Sokoto, \"Katsinanci\" in Katsina, \"Arewanci\" in Gobir, Adar, Kebbi, and Zamfara, and \"Kurhwayanci\" in Kurfey in Niger. Katsina is transitional between Eastern and Western dialects.\n\nNorthern Hausa dialects include \"Arewa\" and \"Arawci\".\n\n\"Zazzaganci\" in Zazzau is the major Southern dialect.\n\nThe Daura (\"Dauranchi\") and Kano (\"Kananci\") dialect are the standard. The BBC, Deutsche Welle, Radio France Internationale and Voice of America offer Hausa services on their international news web sites using Dauranci and Kananci. In recent language development Zazzaganci took over the innovation of writing and speaking the current Hausa language use.\n\nThe western to eastern Hausa dialects of \"Kurhwayanci\", \"Daragaram\" and \"Aderawa\", represent the traditional northernmost limit of native Hausa communities. These are spoken in the northernmost sahel and mid-Saharan regions in west and central Niger in the Tillaberi, Tahoua, Dosso, Maradi, Agadez and Zinder regions. While mutually comprehensible with other dialects (especially \"Sakkwatanci\", and to a lesser extent \"Gaananci\"), the northernmost dialects have slight grammatical and lexical differences owing to frequent contact with the Zarma and Tuareg groups and cultural changes owing to the geographical differences between the grassland and desert zones. These dialects also have the quality of being non-tonal or pitch accent dialects.\n\nThis link between non-tonality and geographic location is not limited to Hausa alone, but is exhibited in other northern dialects of neighbouring languages; such as the difference within Songhay language (between the non-tonal northernmost dialects of Koyra Chiini in Timbuktu and Koyraboro Senni in Gao; and the tonal southern Zarma dialect, spoken from western Niger to northern Ghana), and within the Soninke language (between the non-tonal northernmost dialects of Imraguen and Nemadi spoken in east-central Mauritania; and the tonal southern dialects of Senegal, Mali and the sahel).\n\nThe Ghanaian Hausa dialect (\"Gaananci\"), spoken in Ghana, Togo, and western Ivory Coast, is a distinct western native Hausa dialect-bloc with adequate linguistic and media resources available. Separate smaller Hausa dialects are spoken by an unknown number of Hausa further west in parts of Burkina Faso, and in the Haoussa Foulane, Badji Haoussa, Guezou Haoussa, and Ansongo districts of northeastern Mali (where it is designated as a minority language by the Malian government), but there are very little linguistic resources and research done on these particular dialects at this time.\n\nGaananci forms a separate group from other Western Hausa dialects, as it now falls outside the contiguous Hausa-dominant area, and is usually identified by the use of \"c\" for \"ky\", and \"j\" for \"gy\". This is attributed to the fact that Ghana's Hausa population descend from Hausa-Fulani traders settled in the zongo districts of major trade-towns up and down the previous Asante, Gonja and Dagomba kingdoms stretching from the sahel to coastal regions, in particular the cities of Tamale, Salaga, Bawku, Bolgatanga, Achimota, Nima and Kumasi.\n\nGaananci exhibits noted inflected influences from Zarma, Gur, Dyula and Soninke, as Ghana is the westernmost area in which the Hausa language is a major lingua-franca; as well as it being the westernmost area both the Hausa and Djerma ethnic groups inhabit in large numbers. Immediately west from Ghana (in Ivory Coast, Togo, and Burkina Faso), Hausa is abruptly replaced with Dioula–Bambara as the main lingua-franca of what become predominantly Mandinka areas, and native Hausa populations plummet to a very small urban minority.\n\nBecause of this, and the presence of surrounding Akan, Gur and Mande languages, Gaananci was historically isolated from the other Hausa dialects. Despite this difference, grammatical similarities between \"Sakkwatanci\" and Ghanaian Hausa determine that the dialect, and the origin of the Ghanaian Hausa people themselves, are derived from the northwestern Hausa area surrounding Sokoto.\n\nHausa is also widely spoken by non-native Gur and Mande Ghanaian Muslims, but differs from Gaananci, and rather has features consistent with non-native Hausa dialects.\n\nHausa is also spoken in various parts of Cameroon and Chad, which combined the mixed dialects of northern Nigeria and Niger. In addition, Arabic has had a great influence in the way Hausa is spoken by the native Hausa speakers in these areas.\n\nIn West Africa, Hausa's use as a lingua franca has given rise to a non-native pronunciation that differs vastly from native pronunciation by way of key omissions of implosive and ejective consonants present in native Hausa dialects, such as \"ɗ\", \"ɓ\" and \"kʼ/ƙ\", which are pronounced by non-native speakers as \"d\", \"b\" and \"k\" respectively. This creates confusion among non-native and native Hausa speakers, as non-native pronunciation does not distinguish words like ' (\"correct\") and ' (\"one-by-one\"). Another difference between native and non-native Hausa is the omission of vowel length in words and change in the standard tone of native Hausa dialects (ranging from native Fulani and Tuareg Hausa-speakers omitting tone altogether, to Hausa speakers with Gur or Yoruba mother tongues using additional tonal structures similar to those used in their native languages). Use of masculine and feminine gender nouns and sentence structure are usually omitted or interchanged, and many native Hausa nouns and verbs are substituted with non-native terms from local languages.\n\nNon-native speakers of Hausa numbered more than 25 million and, in some areas, live close to native Hausa. It has replaced many other languages especially in the north-central and north-eastern part of Nigeria and continues to gain popularity in other parts of Africa as a result of Hausa movies and music which spread out throughout the region.\n\nThere are several pidgin forms of Hausa. Barikanchi was formerly used in the colonial army of Nigeria. Gibanawa is currently in widespread use in Jega in northwestern Nigeria, south of the native Hausa area.\n\nHausa has between 23 and 25 consonant phonemes depending on the speaker.\n\nThe three-way contrast between palatalized velars , plain velars , and labialized velars is found only before long and short , e.g. ('grass'), ('to increase'), ('shea-nuts'). Before front vowels, only palatalized and labialized velars occur, e.g. ('jealousy') vs. ('side of body'). Before rounded vowels, only labialized velars occur, e.g. ('ringworm').\n\nHausa has glottalic consonants (implosives and ejectives) at four or five places of articulation (depending on the dialect). They require movement of the glottis during pronunciation and have a staccato sound.\n\nThey are written with modified versions of Latin letters. They can also be denoted with an apostrophe, either before or after depending on the letter, as shown below.\n\n\nHausa has five phonetic vowel sounds, which can be either short or long, giving a total of 10 monophthongs. In addition, there are four joint vowels (diphthongs), giving a total number of 14 vowel phonemes.\n\n\nIn comparison with the long vowels, the short can be similar in quality to the long vowels, mid-centralized to or centralized to .\n\nMedial can be neutralized to , with the rounding depending on the environment.\n\nMedial are neutralized with .\n\nThe short can be either similar in quality to the long , or it can be as high as , with possible intermediate pronunciations ().\n\n\nHausa is a tonal language. Each of its five vowels may have low tone, high tone or falling tone. In standard written Hausa, tone is not marked. In recent linguistic and pedagogical materials, tone is marked by means of diacritics.\n\nAn acute accent () may be used for high tone, but the usual practice is to leave high tone unmarked.\n\nHausa's modern official orthography is a Latin-based alphabet called \"boko\", which was introduced in the 1930s by the British colonial administration.\nThe letter \"ƴ\" (y with a right hook) is used only in Niger; in Nigeria it is written \"ʼy\".\n\nTone, vowel length, and the distinction between and (which does not exist for all speakers) are not marked in writing. So, for example, \"from\" and \"battle\" are both written \"daga\".\n\nHausa has also been written in \"ajami\", an Arabic alphabet, since the early 17th century. The first known work to be written in Hausa is Riwayar Nabi Musa by Abdullahi Suka in the 17th century. There is no standard system of using \"ajami\", and different writers may use letters with different values. Short vowels are written regularly with the help of vowel marks, which are seldom used in Arabic texts other than the Quran. Many medieval Hausa manuscripts in \"ajami\", similar to the Timbuktu Manuscripts, have been discovered recently; some of them even describe constellations and calendars.\n\nIn the following table, vowels are shown with the Arabic letter for \"t\" () as an example.\n\nHausa is one of three indigenous languages of Nigeria which has been rendered in braille.\n\nAt least three other writing systems for Hausa have been proposed or \"discovered\". None of these are in active use beyond perhaps some individuals.\n\n\n\n17. \n\n"}
{"id": "304892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304892", "title": "Hedayat Amin Arsala", "text": "Hedayat Amin Arsala\n\nHedayat Amin Arsala () (born January 12, 1942), is an economist and a prominent politician in Afghanistan. Mr. Arsala is a former Vice President of Afghanistan, Finance Minister and Foreign Minister and until October 2013 was the Senior Minister of the Republic of Afghanistan, appointed by the President Hamid Karzai. He is an ethnic Pashtun.\n\nAn ethnic Pashtun, Arsala grew up in Kabul, Afghanistan, where he attended high school. He completed his BA and MA in Economics, also focusing on international relations, at Southern Illinois University (SIU) in the United States of America. He also completed the course work and qualifying exams for a PhD in Economics at George Washington University, in Washington, D.C. In May 2008, SIU conferred an honorary doctorate on Arsala for his distinguished services to Afghanistan.\n\nIn 1969, Hedayat Amin-Arsala was the first Afghan to join the World Bank (WB) through the Young Professional Program. He served there for 18 years in several economic and senior operational posts. Active in the resistance against the Soviet occupation since 1979, he left the WB in 1987 to participate full-time in the Afghan struggle. He was a founding member of the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan (NIFA), led by Pir Sayed Ahmad Gailani, and a member of the Supreme Council of Mujahideen Unity (formed in February 1980). He served as the Finance Minister in the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) in exile from 1989 to 1992.\n\nWhen the Soviets withdrew and there was a subsequent regime change in Afghanistan, Arsala was appointed as the Foreign Minister of the newly formed Mujahideen coalition government in early 1993. He withdrew from that post in 1995 due to infighting and political disagreement amongst some Mujahideen groups.\n\nWith the rise of the Taliban, Arsala- with some compatriots- launched a peace campaign which called for a broad-based interim Government through a Loya Jirga. This peace movement, later known as ‘The Rome Group’, and its key members, including Arsala, were key participants in the Bonn deliberations after 11 September 2001. The Bonn Conference resulted in the Bonn Agreement and the formation of the Interim Afghan Administration. Mr. Hamid Karzai was appointed Chairman and Mr. Arsala Vice Chairman and the first Minister of Finance in post-Taliban Afghanistan. The Bonn Conference also provided a roadmap for subsequent political developments. In June 2002, the Transitional Government of Afghanistan was formed. The Emergency Loya Jirga of Afghanistan elected Mr. Hamid Karzai as President, and Mr. Arsala was appointed as Vice President of Afghanistan.\n\nAs Vice-President (VP), Arsala simultaneously headed the Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission. He also chaired the Economic Coordination Council and the National Census Committee. He was a member of the National Security Council, and at times, in Mr. Karzai’s absence, Acting President. After 2.5 years as VP, Arsala was appointed Senior Advisor to the President as well as the Minister for Commerce and Industry. In 2006, he became the Senior Minister of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and in the latter part of 2008, he simultaneously became the Chairman of the Government Coordination Committee (GCC) and served as the Co-Chair of the Joint Coordination and Monitoring Board.\n\nAs the first Minister of Finance in the post-Taliban regime, Arsala:\n\nIn early 2002, Arsala also co-chaired the first international Afghanistan aid and development conference in Tokyo. Later in the same year, he led the first international aid conference in Afghanistan. He pioneered a number of innovative civil service initiatives aimed at improving the public sector and effective governance within Afghanistan, creating the first Independent Administration Reform and Civil Service Commission to reform government institutions and introducing a system of civil service appointments and promotion on the basis of merit rather than patronage or nepotism. A champion of public sector reform and private sector growth, as Minister of Commerce and Industry he introduced a number of important improvements to remove barriers to the private sector and champion increased investment:\n\n\nDuring Arsala’s tenure, exports increased from US$300 million to US$500 million. He represented Afghanistan at several international conferences including those of Heads of State and Governments.\n\nAmin Arsala is married, with three children and five grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "11708574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11708574", "title": "Homicide in world cities", "text": "Homicide in world cities\n\nThis page contains A-Z tables of the incidence of intentional homicide in multi-municipal metropolitan areas and standalone municipalities with a predominantly urbanized population. It does \"not\" take into consideration capricious political divisions widely used in the media to represent a city, such as city proper or suburban municipalities. The urban population for each entry is required to be at least 100,000.\n\nSome cities are considered to be larger than the official metropolitan area or municipality determined by a country's respective government. Conversely, some cities are also considered to be significantly smaller than their official metro area(s) designations. Because of this and the continual growth of most cities that might not immediately be captured, the widest neutrally-sourced boundaries for each city are used. This includes the crossing of international borders.\n\n"}
{"id": "6203527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6203527", "title": "Hope chest", "text": "Hope chest\n\nA hope chest, also called dowry chest, cedar chest, trousseau chest or glory box is a piece of furniture traditionally used to collect items such as clothing and household linen, by unmarried young women in anticipation of married life.\n\nThe term \"hope chest\" or \"cedar chest\" is used in the midwest or south of the United States; in the United Kingdom, the term is \"bottom drawer\"; while \"glory box\" is used by women in Australia. \n\nUsing her own needlework skills to construct a trousseau and stock her glory-box \"was for the working girl the equivalent of planning and saving for marriage on the part of the provident and ambitious young man.\" \nThe collection of a \"trousseau\" was a common coming-of-age rite until approximately the 1950s; it was typically a step on the road to marriage between courting a man and engagement. It wasn't always collected in a special chest, hence the alternative UK term \"bottom drawer\", which refers to putting aside one drawer in a chest of drawers for collecting the trousseau undisturbed, but such a chest was an acceptable gift for a girl approaching a marriageable age.\n\nContents of a \"hope chest\" or \"glory box\" included typical dowry items such as clothing (especially a special dress), table linens, towels, bed linens, quilts and occasionally dishware. As a bride would typically leave home on marriage, hope chests were sometimes made with an eye to portability, albeit infrequently. Examples of hand-made items made between 1916 and 1918 for a trousseau by a prospective bride are on display in the National Museum of Australia. In this case, the trousseau—never used because its creator's fiancé was killed in World War I before the marriage took place—was stored in calico bags rather than in a chest.\n\nThe hope chest was often used for the firstborn girl of a family. Instead of just having sheets and household linen in the bottom drawer, this box would transport these goods and dowries and then later be used as a standard piece of furniture for the lady of the house to use. This dowry chest was often richly decorated, however over time dowry chests gradually became smaller, with jewelry boxes emerging instead of large dowry boxes.\n\nBy contrast, a \"bridal chest\" was given to a bride at her wedding, by her husband, and so is not a \"hope chest\" in this sense.\n\n\n\n\n\nThere have been several instances of child deaths due to suffocation inside hope chests, due to the piece's traditional design which can trap children under a heavy and sometimes self-locking lid. \n\nThe typical hope chest is of lidded blanket chest form. In some traditions, there may also be one or two side-by-side drawers beneath. As with blanket chests, a small till may also be found inside for small items.\n\nAs the contents of such a chest would primarily be linens, construction in moth-repellent cedar, or at least a cedar lining, was popular. The Lane Company of Altavista, Virginia (active 1912-2001) were a notable maker of cedar chests. After developing production-line techniques for making ammunition boxes during World War I, they turned these production techniques (and a patented locking-mitre corner joint) into vast numbers of chests. This was aided by strong advertising, using a teenaged Shirley Temple as a model, in a campaign targeted at GIs and absentee sweethearts of World War II. They were particularly well known for their practice (since 1930) of distributing miniature (9\" long) cedar chests to high-school girls as advertising gifts. The Eastern Redcedar (\"Juniperus virginiana\") is the \"cedar\" used in making moth-repelling cedar chests and drawers, as well as pencils.\n\nDecoration is not an intrinsic part of the hope chest, but often appears.\n\nIn the 1920s, 'hope chest' was slang for a pack of cigarettes.\n\n\"Glory Box\" is also the title of a song from the band Portishead. The song is about a woman who is giving up her time as a temptress to commit to a settled life with a man, asking him to take a look from her side every now and then.\n\nIn the 1985 movie \"Back to the Future\", the character Lorraine McFly refers to having placed Marty McFly's pants \"over there...on my hope chest\" after he had been knocked unconscious. The joke implies her romantic interest in Marty when, unbeknownst to Lorraine, Marty is her son from the future.\n\nIn \"Glee\", Kurt Hummel has claimed to own a hope chest. This is an ironic inversion of the hope chest's usual role for a prospective bride, as Kurt is a gay teenage boy.\n\nIn the 2012 film \"\", Bilbo Baggins asks Kili to \"please not do that\" on his mother's glory box, when the dwarf cleans his boots on the chest. This suggests that in Middle Earth women (possibly from the high society) also used hope chests, at least in Hobbiton.\n\nIn \"Me and You and Everyone We Know\", Peter and Robbies' neighbor has a hope chest, which is a part of the climax of the film.\n\nIn \"The New Yankee Workshop\", Norm Abram demonstrates how to build and paint a Pennsylvania Dutch-style hope chest (called a dower chest in the episode) modeled on one on display at the Winterthur Museum in Delaware.\n\n"}
{"id": "30249809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30249809", "title": "Human trafficking in Mauritius", "text": "Human trafficking in Mauritius\n\nMauritius is a source for children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically conditions of forced prostitution within the country. Secondary school-age girls and, to a lesser extent, younger girls from all areas of the country, including from Rodrigues Island, are induced into prostitution, often by their peers, family members, or businessmen offering other forms of employment. Taxi drivers are known to provide transportation and introductions for both the girls and the clients. Girls and boys whose mothers engage in prostitution are reportedly forced into prostitution at a young age. Some drug-addicted women are forced into prostitution by their boyfriends, who serve as their pimps. In Great Britain, two Malagasy nationals were convicted in 2009 of holding a small number of Mauritian nationals, as well as citizens of other countries, in conditions of forced labor; this appears to be an isolated case of transnational human trafficking involving Mauritian citizens. Students from all over the world are forced into prostitution within the country.\n\nThe Government of Mauritius fully complies with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking. Mauritius sustained its strong efforts to identify, investigate, and prosecute incidences of trafficking during the reporting period. The Mauritius Police Force increased its offerings of anti-trafficking training programs for police officers, and continued its awareness campaign in schools and villages. The government's efforts to coordinate among all relevant ministries, however, remained lacking, leading to inconsistent provision of protective and investigative services to trafficking victims.\n\nThe U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017.\n\nIn 2011, the government prosecuted 14 cases of forced labour involving domestic workers and six cases of sex trafficking under the anti-trafficking law. The government has taken swift efforts to clamp down on prostitution and child sex tourism. The Mauritian government demonstrated increased anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts, vigorously investigating and prosecuting cases of human trafficking throughout the year. The “Combating of Trafficking in Persons Act of 2009” prohibits all forms of trafficking for adults and children and prescribes penalties of up to 15 years' imprisonment for convicted offenders. In addition, the Child Protection Act of 2005 prohibits all forms of child trafficking and prescribes punishment of up to 15 years' imprisonment for convicted offenders; the Judicial Provisions Act of 2008 increased the maximum prescribed punishment for child trafficking offenses to 30 years' imprisonment. All of the aforementioned penalties are sufficiently stringent and commensurate with those prescribed for other serious crimes. From arrest to sentencing of offenders, cases of child trafficking typically took 18 to 24 months to resolve. In October 2009, the government used the Children Protection Act to convict and sentence a woman to ten years' imprisonment for subjecting two underage Mauritian girls to prostitution in 2007. Also during the year, the Mauritius Police Force's Minors Brigade, which carries out all investigations involving trafficked children, completed the investigation into a 2007 case of a grandmother who allegedly forced her granddaughter into prostitution and referred it to the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) for action. In 2009, the DPP referred for trial the January 2008 case of a man and woman charged with inducing their 12-year-old niece into prostitution; the case was scheduled to be heard in April 2010. The Minors Brigade utilized a database for tracking criminal trafficking cases, as well as awareness campaigns carried out in the community. In 2009 and early 2010, the Officer in Charge of the brigade conducted five training sessions on best practices for combating human trafficking for all 32 of the Minors Brigade's officers. The Police training school conducted anti-trafficking sessions during a two-week program for 182 senior police officers. Seventy government officials also received training on the commercial sexual exploitation of children from a local NGO.\n\nThe government sustained its protection of child trafficking victims during the reporting period, providing funding to NGO's running victim shelters on a reimbursable basis – $6 per day for the protection of each child, including victims of trafficking. CDU officials regularly referred abused and exploited children to these organizations for shelter and other assistance. The Minor's Brigade systematically refers all cases of identified children in prostitution to the CDU for victim assistance; in 2009, the brigade referred two such children for protective services. The CDU did not, however, refer all cases of child prostitution identified by its officers to the Minors Brigade for possible investigation. The government-funded, NGO-run drop-in center for sexually abused children, which provided counseling to six girls engaged in prostitution in 2009, advertised its services through bumper stickers, a toll-free number, and community outreach; its social worker continued to promote the services in schools and local communities. Nonetheless, due to the drop-in center's lack of shelter facilities and the often crowded conditions at NGO shelters, comprehensive protective services were not always readily available to all victims identified within the country. Though the MOWR acquired land and obtained funding to construct a residential center for victims of child commercial sexual exploitation in late 2008, construction of the facility has not yet begun. The ministry operated a 24-hour hotline for reporting cases of sexual abuse that received two reported cases of child prostitution in 2009.\n\nMauritius has a formal protocol on the provision of assistance to all victims of sexual abuse; children victimized by commercial sexual exploitation are accompanied to the hospital by a child welfare officer, and police work in conjunction with this officer to obtain a statement. Medical treatment and psychological support were readily available at public clinics and NGO centers in Mauritius. The Child Protection (Amendment) Act of 2008 established a child mentoring scheme to provide support and rehabilitation to children in distress, including children engaged in prostitution; the government did not utilize this program to assist children engaged in or at risk of prostitution during the reporting period. The government encourages victims' assistance in the investigation and prosecution of trafficking crimes, and ensures that victims are not inappropriately incarcerated, fined, or otherwise penalized solely for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked.\n\nThe government made notable efforts to prevent the sex trafficking of children and reduce the demand for commercial sex acts during the year. The Police Family Protection Unit and the Minor's Brigade, in conjunction with the CDU, continued its widespread awareness campaign on child abuse and child rights at schools and community centers that included a session on the dangers and consequences of engaging in prostitution; this campaign reached over 16,372 persons in 2009, including 1,574 parents from tourist regions where children have greater risk of trafficking. Law enforcement and child welfare officials conducted surveillance at bus stops, night clubs, gaming houses, and other places frequented by children to identify and interact with students who were at a high risk of sex trafficking. The Ministry of Tourism, Leisure, and External Communications sustained its distribution of pamphlets to hotels and tour operators regarding the responsibility of the tourism sector to combat child sex trafficking. Communication and coordination among the relevant ministries, however, continued to be lacking. There were reports in 2009 that Mauritian nationals may be participating in child sex tourism in Nosy Be, Madagascar; the government took no specific action to address this problem during the year. Inspections conducted by the Ministry of Labor's 30 labor officers and nine trainee officers in 2009 yielded no cases of forced labor or exploitative child labor.\n"}
{"id": "10426796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10426796", "title": "Institutional analysis", "text": "Institutional analysis\n\nInstitutional analysis is that part of the social sciences which studies how institutions—i.e., structures and mechanisms of social order and cooperation governing the behavior of two or more individuals—behave and function according to both empirical rules (informal rules-in-use and norms) and also theoretical rules (formal rules and law). This field deals with how individuals and groups construct institutions, how institutions function in practice, and the effects of institutions on each other, on individuals, societies and the community at large. \n\nSince institutional analysis is focused on the systematic study of people's collective behaviour, its ability to explain major political, social, or historical events is sometimes contrasted with the use of conspiracy theory to explain such events, since the latter focuses on explaining such events by a secret, and often deceptive, plot by a covert coalition of small numbers of powerful or influential individuals rather than by the systematic, regular, publicly documented behaviour of groups of individuals.\n\nThe term \"institutional analysis\" is used by several academic disciplines, and has several meanings and connotations. \n\nOne meaning of institutional analysis refers to actual formal institutions. In the biomedical sciences, “institutional analysis” often refers to analyzing data coming from concrete institutions such as health authorities, hospitals networks, etc. Similarly, in the fields of education and public administration and governance studies, the term usually refers to how school boards and governmental agencies implement policies. \n\nAnother meaning refers to institutions as \"ways of thinking\" that have a direct impact on behaviors. Under this approach, there are several variations and usages of institutional analysis. In economics, it is used to explain why economic behaviors do not conform to the theory of supply and demand. This is a relatively old school of thought that has its roots in the work of early 20th-century economists like Pareto. One of the most prominent contemporary figures of institutional analysis in economics is Douglass North, who received the Nobel Prize for Economics in 1993. \n\nSociology has also used institutional analysis since its inception to study how social institutions such as the laws or the family evolve over time. The foundational author of this approach is Émile Durkheim, also founder of sociology as a discipline.\n\nSince the 1980s, however, there are cross-pollinations between the sociological and economic traditions in institutional analysis. A new focus is to explain how organizations and individuals within organizations make economic and managerial decisions, particularly by investigating the non-rational, non-economic, and non-psychological factors. This movement produced what is known as the New Institutional Analysis. The neoinstitutional approach has several variants. One of them tries to improve economic models based on the theory of public choice, and one of its applications is known as the \"institutional analysis and development\" (IAD) framework developed by Elinor Ostrom 2009 Nobel Prize for Economics. Another variant is influenced by organizational sociology and seeks to integrate Max Weber’s work on bureaucratic mentality. \n\nThere is also a French school of institutional analysis influenced by the Durkheimian analysis of social institutions, and the anthropological school of thought established by Marcel Mauss. This approach to institutional analysis is also influenced by thinkers such as Cornelius Castoriadis and Michel Foucault. The main thrust of this approach is the identification of hidden forms of power that institute behaviors and organizational procedures.\n\n"}
{"id": "23612189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23612189", "title": "John Dingfelder", "text": "John Dingfelder\n\nJohn J. Dingfelder (born 1956 in Tampa, Florida) was successfully elected to Tampa City Council in 2003, but only after failing to make it past the primary elections while campaigning for a seat on the Hillsborough County Commission one year earlier in 2002 . Dingfelder won his City Council race in 2003 having raised $40,171 in 2003 for his election campaign.\n\nDingfelder was on Tampa City Council serving two terms, from 2003-2010 before resigning from his post early to pursue a county commissioner position another time. History was bound to repeat itself though as Dingfelder once again lost in his bid to obtain the 2010 District 1 County Commission race, which was won by Sandy Murman. In a race that faced legal challenges and was tighter than most expected, Murman edged Dingfelder 53 percent to 46 percent. Dingfelder considered another City Council run in 2011, but opted out of the race which would have required him to challenge a new city law requiring members who resign early to sit out a four-year term before they run again. \n\nFour years later Dingfelder decided to try his hand again at a campaign, this time for election to the Thirteenth Circuit Court. Once more though he was defeated in the primary receiving 24.81 percent of the vote after failing to secure recommendations from the Tampa Bay Times. He competed against Barbara Twine Thomas and Carl C. Hinson, the eventual winner.\n\nDingfelder has again thrown his hat in the ring and announced a campaign for Tampa City Council in the 2019 elections. Largely financing his campaign with a $50k personal loan despite prior objections that spending for council races has gotten out of control and is \"obscene\".\n\nDingfelder received his BS in Agriculture from the University of Florida in 1978. He went on to get his M.S. degree from Virginia Polytechnic Institute the following year and later his law degree from UF in 1988.\n\nDingfelder had been practicing law for 25 years. He served the community as an Assistant County Attorney and as an Assistant Public Defender. In private practice he has litigated at Carlton Fields and the Scarritt Law Group.\n\nHe is married to Lynn Marvin Dingfelder.\n"}
{"id": "53967812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53967812", "title": "John Hayward (British politician)", "text": "John Hayward (British politician)\n\nJohn Hayward is a social campaigner with a background in international development. He was the Conservative candidate in Cambridge for the 2017 United Kingdom general election.\n\nHayward grew up in Emsworth, Hampshire. Despite being born with just one arm and no legs, he earned the Queen's Scout Award after learning to ski and climb mountains. He was also awarded the Cornwell Scout Badge (“the Scout V.C.”) in honour of his “pre-eminently high character and devotion to duty”.\n\nHayward was an undergraduate at Christ's College, Cambridge, matriculating in 1989 and reading Natural Sciences; he went on to obtain a Ph.D. in genetics. He has had a career in international development, founding the “Society in Tajikistan for Assistance and Research,” an adult education institute, which he directed for seven years, and helping to empower disadvantaged communities in Zimbabwe. He also gained a Master's degree from Azusa Pacific University in California and worked as the Executive Director of a Cambridge-based social reform think tank, the Jubilee Centre, campaigning on issues such as workers’ rights, national wellbeing and human rights.\n\nIn May 2017 Hayward was selected as the Conservative Party’s candidate in Cambridge. At that time he was working as the professional manager of the Conservative Party's Policy Forum, the national body that enables members of the party to help shape government policy. Described during the campaign as an “impressive interlocutor,” Hayward took 9,133 votes, a slight increase on 2015, with his party taking 16.3% of the vote.\n\nAs part of his work through the Westminster Foundation for Democracy to promote greater inclusion and transparency in the political systems of newly-emerging and developing democracies, Hayward has represented the Conservative Party in countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ghana.\n\n"}
{"id": "35065769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35065769", "title": "Kakabe language", "text": "Kakabe language\n\nKakabe is a minor Mande language of Guinea. The Speakers of the Kakabe language reside in the Futa-Jallon plateau which is located in Guinea. Kakabe belongs to the Mokole group, which is the closest group to the Manding people in terms of culture and language. The language is spoken in a number of villages that are situated on the Futa-Jallon plateau in Guinea.\n\n"}
{"id": "38656158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38656158", "title": "Kenneth Harwood Outstanding Dissertation Award", "text": "Kenneth Harwood Outstanding Dissertation Award\n\nThe Kenneth Harwood Outstanding Dissertation Award is an academic prize awarded each year by the Broadcast Education Association for the best doctoral dissertation in field of broadcasting and electronic media. The prize was established by Kenneth Harwood, Professor at the University of Houston and a former President of the BEA. The award offers $1,000 for the outstanding Ph.D. dissertation in broadcasting and electronic media. The award was established through gifts started by Professor Harwood and a donation from a friend of BEA.|\n"}
{"id": "11209784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11209784", "title": "Lester Eugene Siler", "text": "Lester Eugene Siler\n\nLester Eugene Siler, a convicted drug dealer in the United States, was beaten and tortured by Campbell County, Tennessee police during an interrogation at his home, during which officers attempted to coerce Siler to sign a consent form giving them permission to search his home without a warrant.\n\nOn July 8, 2004, police officers entered the house of Siler and tortured him using various methods, including applying electricity to his genitalia. Upon arrival, the officers asked his wife, Jenny, and son to leave. Before the torture, however, Siler's wife set up an audio recorder which captured a large portion of the incident.\n\nFive officers, Gerald David Webber, Samuel R. Franklin, Joshua Monday, Shayne Green, and William Carroll were convicted in federal court of the beatings and attempted cover-up. They received prison sentences ranging from 51 to 72 months.\n\nThe events went largely unreported in American news media. Siler's civil suits filed at the federal and state level were both dismissed after he was jailed on a drug offense and his lawyers failed to notify a defense lawyer of a filing for an impermissibly long period of time, barring all possibility of recovering damages. Two of the officers were employed by Campbell County after their release, reflecting public sentiment in favor of their actions.\n\n"}
{"id": "30448260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30448260", "title": "List of Chinese administrative divisions by sex ratio", "text": "List of Chinese administrative divisions by sex ratio\n\nThe sex ratio of Chinese administrative divisions is the ratio of males to females in the population of the particular area. It has been the subject of academic study because of a high imbalance in births since the 1990s and female infanticide further worsening the imbalanced sex ratios at birth.\n\nThe figures are from the intercensus survey of 2005, which was carried out in November 2005 on a representative 1% of the total population.\n\n"}
{"id": "13725692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13725692", "title": "List of smart cards", "text": "List of smart cards\n\nSome widely used contactless smart cards include Sydney's Opal Card, London's Oyster card, South Korea's T-money, Hong Kong's Octopus card, Stockholm's Access card, Japan's Suica and Pasmo cards, Manila's Beep cards, Nigeria's ETC Card, Paris' Calypso/Navigo, the Dutch OV-Chipkaart, Toronto's Presto card and Lisbon's LisboaViva card, which predate the ISO/IEC 14443 standard. The following tables list smart cards used for public transport and other electronic purse applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "32599904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32599904", "title": "Mbandja language", "text": "Mbandja language\n\nMbandja (Banja, Mbanza) is the largest of the Banda languages. There are 350,000 speakers in DRC, 10,000 in the Republic of Congo, and an unknown number in CAR.\n"}
{"id": "14175082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14175082", "title": "Medical explanations of bewitchment", "text": "Medical explanations of bewitchment\n\nMedical explanations of bewitchment, especially as exhibited during the Salem witch trials but in other witch-hunts as well, have emerged because it is not widely believed today that symptoms of those claiming affliction were actually caused by bewitchment. The reported symptoms have been explored by a variety of researchers for possible biological and psychological origins.\n\nModern academic historians of witch-hunts generally consider medical explanations unsatisfactory in explaining the phenomenon and tend to believe the accusers in Salem were motivated by social factors – jealousy, spite, or a need for attention – and that the extreme behaviors exhibited were \"counterfeit,\" as contemporary critics of the trials had suspected.\n\nA widely known theory about the cause of the reported afflictions attributes the cause to the ingestion of bread that had been made from rye grain that had been infected by a fungus, \"Claviceps purpurea\", commonly known as ergot. This fungus contains chemicals similar to those used in the synthetic psychedelic drug LSD. Convulsive ergotism causes a variety of symptoms, including nervous dysfunction.\n\nThe theory was first widely publicized in 1976, when graduate student Linnda R. Caporael published an article in \"Science\", making the claim that the hallucinations of the afflicted girls could possibly have been the result of ingesting rye bread that had been made with moldy grain. \"Ergot of Rye\" is a plant disease caused by the fungus \"Claviceps purpurea\", which Caporael claims is consistent with many of the physical symptoms of those alleged to be afflicted by witchcraft.\n\nWithin seven months, however, an article disagreeing with this theory was published in the same journal by Spanos and Gottlieb They performed a wider assessment of the historical records, examining all the symptoms reported by those claiming affliction, among other things, that \n\nIn 1989, Mary Matossian reopened the issue, supporting Caporeal, including putting an image of ergot-infected rye on the cover of her book, \"Poisons of the Past\". Matossian disagreed with Spanos and Gottlieb, based on evidence from Boyer and Nissenbaum in \"Salem Possessed\" that indicated a geographical constraint to the reports of affliction within Salem Village.\n\nIn 1999, Laurie Winn Carlson offered an alternative medical theory, that those afflicted in Salem who claimed to have been bewitched, suffered from encephalitis lethargica, a disease whose symptoms match some of what was reported in Salem and could have been spread by birds and other animals.\nM. M. Drymon has proposed that Lyme disease was responsible for witches and witch affliction, finding that many of the afflicted in Salem and elsewhere lived in areas that were tick-risky, had a variety of red marks and rashes that looked like bite marks on their skin, and suffered from neurological and arthritic symptoms.\n\nSome of the girls in the 2012 cluster outbreak of \"Salem-like\" symptoms in Le Roy, New York have tested positive for Lyme disease.\n\nIt is possible that King Philip's War, concurrent with the Salem witch trials, induced PTSD in some of the \"afflicted\" accusers. Wabanaki allies of the French attacked British colonists in Maine, New Hampshire, and northern Massachusetts in a series of guerrilla skirmishes. Survivors blamed colonial leaders for the attacks' successes, accusing them of incompetence, cowardice, and corruption. A climate of fear and panic pervaded the northern coastline, causing a mass exodus to southern Massachusetts and beyond. Fleeing survivors from these attacks included some of the maidservant accusers in their childhood. Witnessing a violent attack is a trigger for hysteria and posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nNot only might the violence of the border skirmishes to the north explain symptoms of PTSD in accusers who formerly lived among the slaughtered, but the widespread blame of elite incompetence for those attacks offers a compelling explanation for the unusual demographic among the accused. Within the historical phenomenon, witch trial 'defendants' were overwhelmingly female, and members of the lower classes. The Salem witch trial breaks from this pattern. In the \"Salem\" witch trials, \"elite men\" were accused of witchcraft, some of them the same leaders who failed to successfully protect besieged settlements to the north. This anomaly in the pattern of typical witch trials, combined with widespread blame for the northern attacks on colonial leadership, suggests the relevance of the northern guerrilla attacks to the accusers. Thus, Mary Beth Norton, whose work draws the parallel between the Salem witch trials and King Philip's War, argues implicitly that a \"combination\" of PTSD and a popular societal narrative of betrayal-from-within caused the unusual characteristics of this particular witch trial.\n\nThe symptoms displayed by the afflicted in Salem are similar to those seen in classic cases of hysteria, according to Marion Starkey and Chadwick Hansen. Physicians have replaced the vague diagnosis of hysteria with what is essentially its synonym, \"psychosomatic disorder\".\n\nPsychological processes known to influence physical health are now called \"psychosomatic\". They include:\n\nPsychologists Nicholas P. Spanos and Jack Gottlieb explain that the afflicted were enacting the roles that maintained their definition of themselves as bewitched, and this in return lead to the conviction of many of the accused that the symptoms, such as bites, pinches and pricks, were produced by specters. These symptoms were typically apparent throughout the community and caused an internal disease process.\n\nStarkey acknowledges that, while the afflicted girls were physically healthy before their fits began, they were not spiritually well because they were sickened from trying to cope with living in an adult world that did not cater to their needs as children. The basis for a Puritan society, which entails the possibility for sin, damnation, common internal quarrels, and the strict outlook on marriage, repressed the un-married teenagers who felt damnation was imminent. The young girls longed for freedom to move beyond their low status in society. The girls indulged in the forbidden conduct of fortune-telling with the Indian slave Tituba to discover who their future husbands were. They suffered from hysteria as they tried to cope with,\n\nTheir symptoms of excessive weeping, silent states followed by violent screams, hiding under furniture, and hallucinations were a result of hysteria. Starkey conveys that after the crisis at Salem had calmed it was discovered that diagnosed insanity appeared in the Parris family. Ann Putnam Jr. had a history of family illness. Her mother experienced paranoid tendencies from previous tragedies in her life, and when Ann Jr. began to experience hysterical fits, her symptoms verged on psychotic. Starkey argues they suffered from hysteria and as they began to receive more attention, used it as a means to rebel against the restrictions of Puritanism.\n\nHansen approaches the afflicted girls through a pathological lens arguing that the girls suffered from clinical hysteria because of the fear of witchcraft, not witchcraft itself. The girls feared bewitchment and experienced symptoms that were all in the girls' heads. Hansen contests that,\nThe girls suffered from what appeared to be bite marks and would often try to throw themselves into fires, classic symptoms of hysteria. Hansen explains that hysterics will often try to injure themselves, which never result in serious injuries because they wait until someone is present to stop them. He also concludes that skin lesions are the most common psychosomatic symptom among hysterics, which can resemble bite or pinch marks on the skin. Hansen believes the girls are not accountable for their actions because they were not consciously responsible in committing them.\n\nHistorian John Demos in 1970 adopted a psycho-historical approach to confronting the unusual behavior suffered by the afflicted girls in Salem during 1692. Demos combined the disciplines of anthropology and psychology to propose that psychological projection could explain the violent fits the girls were experiencing during the crisis at Salem. Demos displays through charts that most of the accused were predominantly married or widowed women between the ages of forty-one and sixty, while the afflicted girls were primarily adolescent girls. The structure of the Puritan community created internal conflict among the young girls who felt controlled by the older women leading to internal feelings of resentment. Demos asserts that often neighborly relations within the Puritan community remained tense and most witchcraft episodes began after some sort of conflict or encounter between neighbors. The accusation of witchcraft was a scapegoat to display any suppressed anger and resentment felt. The violent fits and verbal attacks experienced at Salem were directly related to the process of projection, as Demos explains,\n\nDemos asserts that the violent fits displayed, often aimed at figures of authority, were attributed to bewitchment because it allowed the afflicted youth to project their repressed aggression and not be directly held responsible for their behaviors because they were coerced by the Devil. Therefore, aggression experienced because of witchcraft became an outlet and the violent fits and the physical attacks endured, inside and outside the courtroom, were examples of how each girl was undergoing the psychological process of projection.\n\n"}
{"id": "4995174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995174", "title": "Mekan people", "text": "Mekan people\n\nThe Mekan or Me'en are an ethnic minority group inhabiting southwestern Ethiopia. The 1998 census lists them as consisting of 56,585 individuals. In Ethiopia, ethnic communities speaking Nilo-Saharan languages are referred to as \"Nilotic\", but this is not exactly the same meaning as the Nilotic language family.\n\nThe Mekan or Me'en speak the Me'en language, which is a member of the Surmic branch of the Nilo-Saharan language family. The population is subdivided into two groups: the highland Tishena, who are agriculturalists, and the lowland Bodi, who are pastoralists.\n\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "9203623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9203623", "title": "Mobile news", "text": "Mobile news\n\nMobile news refers to both the delivery and creation of news using mobile devices.\n\nToday, mobile news delivery can be done via SMS, by specialized applications, or using mobile versions of media websites. According to a recent market study across six countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, UK, and US), 16.9% of consumers access news and information via mobile devices, either via browser, downloaded application, or SMS alerts.\n\nThe demand for mobile news delivery is growing quickly, with 107 percent growth in daily access to mobile news in the last year alone. For example, the New York Times mobile site registered 19 million views in May 2008, compared to 500,000 in January 2007.\n\nJuly 18, 2011, Time Warner announced that news coverage from CNN and Headline News will be streamed live over the Internet and available for people to view on their laptops, smartphones, or tablets if they subscribe to certain paid TV services.\n\nFrom 2014 many media companies launched their native mobile application including Newsdash to engage global users by delivering quick and short news of their choice.\n\nMobile news also has the potential to place the power of breaking news reporting in the hands of small communities and facilitate a much better exchange of information among users due to the ease of usage of mobile phones compared with conventional media such as radio, TV or newspapers, though issues of quality, journalistic standards and professionalism are of concern to some critics..\n\nMobile telephony and full featured mobile devices also facilitate activism and citizen journalism. In addition to individual efforts, major media outlets like CNN, Reuters, and Yahoo are attempting to harness the power of citizen journalists.\n\nThe creation of mobile news was fuelled first by the popularity of receiving text alerts, and then hugely accelerated when mobile companies embraced social media, making content creation easy and accessible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42050535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42050535", "title": "Palestinian Haitians", "text": "Palestinian Haitians\n\nPalestinian Haitians () are Haitians of Palestinian descent, or Palestinians with Haitian citizenship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1128174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128174", "title": "Permanent autonomous zone", "text": "Permanent autonomous zone\n\nA permanent autonomous zone (PAZ) is a community that is autonomous from the generally recognized state or authority structure in which it is embedded. PAZs are not controlled by any government (as recognized by other governments) or by any religious authority.\n\nThe phrase \"permanent autonomous zone\" has been applied to groups such as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58377028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58377028", "title": "Productive Safety Net Programme", "text": "Productive Safety Net Programme\n\nThe Productive Safety Net Programme (PSNP) is a social protection program by the Government of Ethiopia targeting food-insecure households. \n\nEstablished in 2005, the objective of the program is to prevent household asset depletion and create community assets. To this end, the program provides cash or food payments against public works that build local infrastructure (e.g. roads) or protect environment (e.g. terracing). Poor and vulnerable households with limited labour capacity receive unconditional (direct support) payments. Moreover, eligible households with pregnant or lactating women or infant children are receive temporary direct support. PSNP operates in chronically food insecure districts (woredas) in six Ethiopian regions: Afar, Amhara, Oromia, Somali, Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region, and Tigray.\n\nPSNP is the second largest social safety net program in Africa (after South Africa). In 2015, more than seven million people benefited from the program. PSNP is implemented by the Government of Ethiopia and has been supported by several international donors, including the Danish International Development Agency, Department of Foreign Affairs, Global Affairs Canada, European Commission, Irish Aid, Royal Netherlands Embassy, Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency, UK Department for International Development, United Nations Children’s Fund, United States Agency for International Development, World Bank and the World Food Programme.\n\nEvaluations by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) show that PSNP is well-targeted towards the most food insecure and poorest households residing in the areas in which the program operates. Moreover, IFPRI-led impact evaluations show that PSNP has improved household food security and expenditures.\n"}
{"id": "1309790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1309790", "title": "Prostitution in Thailand", "text": "Prostitution in Thailand\n\nProstitution in Thailand has been common in modern Thailand and its predecessor states for centuries. During the Ayutthaya Kingdom (1351–1767), prostitution was legal and taxed, and the state ran brothels. Since 1960, prostitution in Thailand has been \"de jure\" illegal. Nevertheless, it was estimated to be worth US$6.4 billion a year in revenue (2015), accounting for a significant portion of the national GDP.\n\nThe legal framework governing prostitution in Thailand is based upon three acts:\n\nThe Prevention and Suppression of Prostitution Act, B.E. 2539 (1996) is the statute most directly prohibiting prostitution. Under the act, the definition of \"prostitution\" is \"Sexual intercourse, or any other act, or the commission of any other act in order to gratify the sexual desire of another person in a promiscuous manner in return for money or any other benefit, irrespective of whether the person who accepts the act and the person who commits the act are of the same sex or not.\" A clear definition of the phrase \"in a promiscuous manner\" is not provided.\n\nUnder the act, persons who solicit sex \"...in an open and shameless manner...\" (a phrase that is not clearly defined), or who are \"...causing nuisance to the public...\" are subject to a fine. Persons associating in a \"prostitution establishment\" with another person for the purpose of prostitution faces a jail term or a fine or both. The term \"prostitution establishment\" is not clearly defined, although it may be broadly interpreted to include any place where prostitution takes place, especially in regard to cases involving child prostitution that carry heavier penalties (up to six years if the prostitute is younger than 15 years of age)—otherwise, the law is not usually enforced against prostitution in private places. The act also imposes heavier penalties against owners of prostitution businesses and establishments. The criminal code also stipulates penalties for procuring or using money earned from prostitution.\n\nThe Prevention and Suppression of Prostitution Act was written with a particular focus upon child prostitution and trafficking. Section 8 penalizes customers who engage in sexual intercourse with sex workers under the age of 15 years with a prison term of two to six years and a fine of up to 120,000 baht. For sex workers between the ages of 15 and 18 years, the prison term is one to three years, and the fine is up to 60,000 baht.\n\nIn regard to trafficking, Section 9 of the act states that, \"Any person who procures, seduces or takes away any person for the prostitution of such person, even with her or his consent and irrespective of whether the various acts which constitute an offence are committed within or outside the Kingdom, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term of one to ten years and to a fine of twenty thousand to two hundred thousand Baht.\"\n\nAdditionally, any offense under Section 9 that is committed \"by means of fraud, deceit, threat, violence, [or] the exercise of undue influence or coercion,\" results in a penalty that is \"one-third heavier\".\n\nThe Penal Code Amendment Act (No. 14), B.E. 2540 (1997) does not explicitly state that prostitution in Thailand is illegal, but Title IX, Section 286 of the Penal Code states: “Any person, being over sixteen years of age, [sic] subsists on the earning of a prostitute, even if it is some part of her incomes [sic], shall be punished with imprisonment of seven to twenty years and fined of fourteen thousand to forty thousand Baht, or imprisonment for life.” While penalties are not specified, the same section of the act penalizes any person who (i) is found residing or habitually associating with a prostitute, (ii) receives boarding, money or other benefits arranged for by a prostitute or (iii) assists any prostitute in a quarrel with a customer.\n\nThe Act was also written to address child prostitution, but lacks complete clarity, as it does not define what an \"indecent act\" is. Title IX, Section 279 of the Penal Code states: \"Whoever, commits an indecent act on a child not yet over fifteen years of age, whether such child shall consent or not, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding ten years or fined not exceeding twenty thousand Baht, or both.\"\n\nThe Entertainment Places Act of 1966 places the onus upon the owner of certain types of entertainment establishments if prostitution occurs on the premises, thereby making them criminally liable. According to the act, sex workers must also undergo rehabilitation for one year at a reform house upon the completion of punishment for practicing prostitution.\n\nRelated activities such as brothel keeping, solicitation and profiting from the prostitution of others are illegal. Public nuisance laws are also used against prostitution.. In practice it is tolerated, sometimes because local officials have financial interests in local prostitution. Prostitution operates clandestinely in many parts of the country.\n\nThe precise number of prostitutes is difficult to assess. Estimates vary widely and are subject to national and international controversy. Since the Vietnam War, Thailand has gained an international reputation among travellers from many countries as a sex tourism destination. \n\nEstimates of the number of prostitutes in Thailand vary widely. No Thai government has ever conducted a formal survey. Estimates are subject to controversy. A 2004 estimate by Dr. Nitet Tinnakul of Chulalongkorn University gave a total of 2.8 million sex workers, including two million women, 20,000 adult males, and 800,000 minors under the age of 18, but the figures for women and minors were considered to be grossly inflated by most observers, and to have resulted from poor research methods. According to a 2001 report by the World Health Organization: \"The most reliable suggestion is that there are between 150,000 and 200,000 sex workers.\" In its annual human rights report for 2008, the US State Department noted that, \"A government survey during the year found that there were 76,000 to 77,000 adult prostitutes in registered entertainment establishments. However, NGOs believed there were between 200,000 and 300,000 prostitutes.\" The state department's \"2013 Human Rights Report\" for Thailand made no estimates of the extent of prostitution, but in 2015 \"Havocscope\", a database providing information about the global black market, gave an approximate figure of about 250,000 for the number of prostitutes working in Thailand. UNAIDS in 2015 estimated the total population of sex workers in Thailand to be 147,000.\n\nIt has been suggested for example that there may be as many as 10,000 prostitutes on Ko Samui alone, an island resort destination not usually noted for prostitution, and that at least 10 percent of tourist dollars may be spent on the sex trade. An estimate published in 2003 placed the trade at US$4.3 billion per year, or about three percent of the Thai economy. In 2015 \"Havocscope\" said that about US$6.4 billion dollars in annual revenue was being generated by the trade, a figure which accounted for 10 percent of Thailand's GDP. Havocscope claims that sex workers in Thailand send an annual average of US$300 million to family members who reside in more rural areas of Thailand.\n\nIn 1996, the police in Bangkok estimated that there were at least 5,000 Russian prostitutes working in Thailand, many of whom had arrived through networks controlled by Russian gangs.\n\nIn July 2016 it was reported that the Thai government intended to abolish the sex industry. Ms Kobkarn Wattanavrangkul, the tourism minister, said \"Tourists don't come to Thailand for [sex]. They come here for our beautiful culture\" and that \"We want Thailand to be about quality tourism. We want the sex industry gone\". Kobkarn was replaced as tourism minister in November 2017.\n\nThe primary tourist \"prostitution zones\" of Thailand are often identified as the red-light districts of Bangkok and Pattaya as well as Patong Beach Resort on Phuket Island. In addition Hat Yai and other Malaysian border cities cater to Malaysians. In Bangkok the areas most commonly associated with prostitution include the entertainment district of Patpong as well as locations in the western Sukhumvit Road area such as the street called Soi Cowboy and the Nana Plaza building. The so-called Ratchadaphisek entertainment district, running along Ratchadaphisek Road near the Huai Khwang intersection features several large entertainment venues which include sexual massage. Lumphini Park in central Bangkok is well-known as a prostitution spot after dark. In Pattaya the primary areas associated with prostitution are Boyztown, Sunee Plaza and Walking Street.\n\nRather than face of the risks of working independently, many sex workers trade their freedom for the relative safety that comes with fixed employment in businesses such as \"karaoke\" bars, \"massage\" parlours, or brothels. Prostitution may take place in a number of different types of venues, including brothels, hotels, massage parlours, restaurants, saunas, hostess bars, go-go bars and \"beer bars\". Many other service sector workers offer sexual services as a sideline. Thai prostitution is divided into different sectors that serve different markets (the main criteria being the socioeconomic status of customers and the nationality of both customers and prostitutes). Straightforward brothels, which offer no services aside from sex, represent the lower end of the market. These are most common outside Bangkok, serving low-income Thai men.\n\nProstitution is prohibited under Thai law, but karaoke bars and massage parlours can be registered as normal, legal businesses. When arrests of sex workers occur at such premises, police usually treat the act of prostitution as an exchange between the sex worker and the client—an exchange to which the owner of the business was not a party. Cases of clients being charged are few and far between, giving rise to the popular quip that, \"employing sex workers is legal, being a sex worker is illegal, clients get off scot-free.\" Owners of such establishments are only accused of crimes when breaking other laws, such as the employment of underage workers or illegal migrants.\n\nSoapy massage establishments (; , \"bathing and massage places\"), akin to Japanese soaplands, typically provide either an oil massage, nude body massage, or a bath treatment which includes sexual services. In this type of establishment, male clients can engage in sexual activity with female prostitutes. Prostitution establishments targeted at locals are usually \"bathing-sauna-massage\" parlours of this type.\nThere are so many soapy massage businesses in some sections of Bangkok, using massive quantities of water pumped illegally from groundwater, that they have been accused by authorities of contributing to Bangkok's subsidence of one centimeter per year.\n\nOne observer says that, \"So-called 'karaoke bars' commonly feature karaoke machines as décor, even though few or no customers visit such venues to sing, but rather to buy sex service.\"\n\nAlthough Thailand is known for Thai massage, its non-sexual, traditional style of massage, known as nuat phaen boran, some massage parlours provide customers erotic massage at additional cost including handjobs, oral sex, and sexual intercourse. The Federation of Thai Spa Associations (FTSPA) in 2016 urged authorities to clamp down on sexual services being offered at some massage parlours. The FTSPA maintains that influential figures have used legal loopholes to open \"pretty spas\" or massage parlours where tourists can buy sexual services. The difference between this type of massage and ab ob nuat is that not all massage parlours offer sexual services.\n\nWomen (\"bar girls\"), or men, in the case of gay bars, or transsexual (\"kathoeys\") are employed by the bars either as dancers (in the case of go-go bars) or simply as hostesses who will encourage customers to buy them drinks. Apart from these sorts of bars, there are a number of other sex trade venues. In most of these establishments the prostitutes are directly employed, but in hotels, some bars and discos freelance prostitutes are allowed to solicit clients. Prostitutes will usually receive a commission when a customer buys drinks and sexual services can be arranged to take place on premises or elsewhere (with the latter requiring the customer to pay a \"bar fine\" to release the prostitute from the bar).\n\nThe documented history of prostitution in Thailand goes back at least six centuries, with overt and explicit references by the Chinese voyager Ma Huan (1433) and subsequently by European visitors (Van Neck, 1604; Gisbert Heeck, 1655 and others). It is certainly not a new phenomenon, though it may have been exacerbated by the Japanese occupation during World War II and by the extensive use of Thailand as a \"Rest and Recreation\" facility by US forces during the Second Indochina War (c. 1963–1973).\n\nWhen Rama V abolished slavery in 1905, women found themselves left without anything, so they sold their bodies for survival. Around that time millions of Chinese men came to do construction work, demanding for sex. In 1908, the king passed laws to legalize prostitution and help sex workers get medical care.\n\nThailand has an ancient, continuous tradition of legal texts, generally described under the heading of Dhammasattha literature (Thai pron., \"tam-ma-sat\"), wherein prostitution is variously defined and universally banned. The era of traditional legal texts came to an end in the early 20th century, but these earlier texts were significant in regard to both the writ and spirit of modern legislation.\n\nIn the twentieth century a variety of laws relating to the sex industry were passed, including the Contagious Diseases Prevention Act of 1908 and the Entertainment Places Act of 1966. In the 1950s the Thai prime minister Field Marshal Sarit Thanarat initiated a morality campaign which included the aim of criminalising prostitution through the imposition of fines and imprisonment. A system of medical examinations and \"moral rehabilitation\" was introduced and the focus of public blame was moved from traffickers and procurers to the prostitutes themselves. Prostitution itself was made illegal in Thailand in 1960, when a law was passed under pressure from the United Nations. The government instituted a system of monitoring sex workers in order to prevent their mistreatment and to control the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. The 1960 law was repealed by the Prevention and Suppression of Prostitution Act, B.E. 2539 (1996).\n\nIn 2003, the Ministry of Justice considered legalising prostitution as an official occupation with health benefits and taxable income and held a public discussion on the topic. Legalisation and regulation was proposed as a means to increase tax revenue, reduce corruption, and improve the situation of the workers. However, nothing further was done.\n\nIn 2008, 532,522 Thais were suffering from HIV/AIDS. The UNAIDS estimated in 2013 that from 380,000 to 520,000 Thais were living with HIV.In 2017, the number of Thais living with HIV was 440,000. The prevalence of HIV/Aids among Thai adults aged 15–49 is estimated to be 1.1 percent (2016). Among freelance female sex workers, the prevalence of HIV was 2.8 percent in 2017. Among female sex workers in brothels, it was 0.6 percent (2017).\n\nMechai Viravaidya, known as \"Mr. Condom\", has campaigned tirelessly to increase the awareness of safe sex practices and use of condoms in Thailand. He served as minister for tourism and AIDS prevention from 1991 to 1992, and also founded the restaurant chain Cabbages and Condoms, which gives free condoms to customers.\n\nAfter the enactment of the Thai government's first five-year plan to combat the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the country, including Mechai's \"100% condom programme\", as of 1994 the use of condoms during commercial sex probably increased markedly. No current data on the use of condoms is available. The programme instructed sex workers to refuse intercourse without a condom, and monitored health clinic statistics in order to locate brothels that allow sex without condoms.\n\nA study done by AIDS Care investigated substance use of HIV risk behaviors among kathoey sex workers in Bangkok, Thailand. Only half of participants stated that they were tested for HIV and one had seen a health care provider in the past 12 months. It found that katheoys who experienced abuse from a father or brother were less likely to use condoms during anal sex with customers. Katheoy sex work tends to be in large cities and tourist areas including Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Phuket City, and Pattaya. Many kathoeys work part-time as freelance prostitutes and keep a day-time job. Kathoeys are usually a cheaper alternative to female prostitutes and considered as less likely to be a disease risk. Pressure from often specialized \"ladyboy\" bars puts kathoeys at risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases given that many customers are unwilling to use condoms.\n\nThai society has its own unique set of often contradictory sexual mores. Visiting a prostitute or a paid mistress is not an uncommon, though not necessarily acceptable, behaviour for men. Many Thai women, for example, believe the existence of prostitution actively reduces the incidence of rape. Among many Thai people, there is a general attitude that prostitution has always been, and will always be, a part of the social fabric of Thailand. On the other hand, \"...the idea of legalizing sex work is unacceptable to many thin-faced Thais who judge the profession to be a foundation of vices. It doesn't matter how many sex workers are left out of the formal economic sector and become more prone to extortion, exploitation and abuse – many Thais simply will not tolerate sex work as legal.\"\n\nAccording to a 1996 study, the sexual urge of men is perceived by both Thai men and women as being very much stronger than the sexual urge of women. Where women are thought to be able to exercise control over their desires, the sexual urge of men is seen to be \"a basic physiological need or instinct\". It is also thought by both Thai men and women that men need \"an occasional variation in partners\". As female infidelity is strongly frowned upon in Thai society, and, according to a 1993 survey, sexual relationships for single women also meets disapproval by a majority of the Thai population, premarital sex, casual sex and extramarital sex with prostitutes is accepted, expected and sometimes even encouraged for Thai men, the latter being perceived as less threatening to a marriage over lasting relationships with a so-called \"minor wife\".\n\nAnother reason contributing to this issue is that ordinary Thais deem themselves tolerant of other people, especially those whom they perceive as downtrodden. This acceptance has allowed prostitution to flourish without much of the extreme social stigma found in other countries. According to a 1996 study, people in Thailand generally disapprove of prostitution, but the stigma for prostitutes is not lasting or severe, especially since many prostitutes support their parents through their work. Some men do not mind marrying former prostitutes. A 2009 study of subjective well-being of prostitutes found that among the sex workers surveyed, sex work had become normalized.\n\nChuwit Kamolvisit was the owner of several massage parlours in Bangkok and considered by many a \"godfather of prostitution\" in Thailand. In 2005 he was elected for a four-year term to the Thai House of Representatives, but in 2006 the Constitutional Court removed him from office. In October 2008 he again ran for governor of Bangkok but was not elected. He revealed in 2003 that some of his best clients were senior politicians and police officers, whom he also claimed to have paid, over a decade, more than £1.5 million in bribes so that his business, selling sex, could thrive.\n\nAlthough Thailand's sex trade aimed at foreigners can be considered overt, the industry that caters exclusively to Thai men had never before been publicly scrutinised, let alone the sexual exploits of Thailand's unchallengeable officials.\n\nSupport of prostitution is pervasive in political circles, as BBC News reported in 2003. \"MPs from Thailand's ruling Thai Rak Thai Party are getting hot under the collar over plans by the party leadership to ban them from having mistresses or visiting brothels...\" One MP told \"The Nation\" newspaper that if the rules were enforced, the party would only be able to field around 30 candidates, compared to its more than 200 sitting MPs.\"\n\nAttitudes towards women were exemplified by MP Thirachai Sirikhan, quoted in \"The Nation\", \"To have a \"mia noi\" [mistress] is an individual's right. There should be no problem as long as the politician causes no trouble to his family or society\".\n\nAfter a police raid on some Bangkok parlours where policemen had sex with prostitutes, \"Acting Suthisan Police chief Colonel Varanvas Karunyathat defended the police action, saying that the (police) officers involved needed to have sex with the masseuses to gain evidence for the arrest.\" Apparently, this is standard practice as a separate police force did the same in Pattaya in May 2007.\n\nKritaya Archavanitkul, a Thai human rights activist, interviewed by UC Berkeley Institute of International Studies, said,\n\nThis is sad to say, that the Thai social structure tends to accept this sort of abuse, and not only to accept – we have laws, we have bills that vitally support the existence of these sex establishments. That's one thing. And also, we have a Mafia that is also involved in the political parties, so this keeps the abuse going. The second reason is a cultural factor. I don't know about other countries, but in Thailand the sexual behaviour of Thai men accepts prostitution. Every class of Thai men accept it, although not all Thai men practise it. So they don't see it as a problem. So when it comes to the policymakers, who are mostly men, of course, they don't see this as a problem. They know there are many women who are brought into prostitution in Thailand. They know that some are treated with brutal violence. But they don't think it's a terrible picture. They think it's just the unlucky cases. And, because of the profit, I think there are many people with an interest involved, so they try to turn a blind eye to this problem.\nAccording to a Library of Congress study published in 2003, \"The red-light districts of Thai cities are home to...brothels, casinos, and entertainment facilities that function both as sources of income and as operations centers for trafficking in humans...\" It has been estimated that organised crime groups have brought over a million women into Thailand from China, Laos, and Vietnam. The 14K Triad organisation dominates the trafficking of women from China to Bangkok for prostitution.\n\nIn November 2015, Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha launched a \"clean up Thailand\" campaign to eliminate organised crime in all areas, including vice.\n\nIn the book \"Disposable People: New Slavery in the Global Economy\", Kevin Bales argues that in Thai Buddhism, women are viewed as naturally inferior to men, and that Buddha told his disciples that women were \"impure, carnal, and corrupting.\" This is also supported by the belief that women cannot attain enlightenment, although this view is disputed by other Buddhist scriptures such as the Vinaya Pitaka in the Pali Canon. The current Dalai Lama has repeatedly asserted that women can attain enlightenment and function as equals to men in spiritual matters, but his branch of Buddhism is not the one practised in Thailand, which has its own particular agglomeration of beliefs. Bales also points to the fact that ten kinds of wives are outlined in the Vinaya, or rules for monks. Within these rules, the first three are actually women who can be paid for their services. In present day Thailand, this is expressed as a tolerance by wives for prostitution. Sex with prostitutes is viewed by wives as empty sex, and thus women may allow their husbands to have meaningless sex with prostitutes rather than find a new spouse. \nBuddhism also prescribes \"acceptance and resignation in the face of life's pain and suffering\", in accordance with belief in karma and the expiation of sins from previous lives. Women may choose to believe that suffering as prostitutes is the result of their karma.\n\nProstitution's tenuous position in Thai society makes it ripe for exploitation by police and governmental officials. Sex businesses pay considerable sums to authorities in order to be permitted to continue in business. Sex work has become in effect a cash cow for those in a position to extract bribes. Those in a position to benefit have a financial interest in seeing the status quo continue. Business owners and individual sex workers complain that since the junta came to power in 2014, harassment has increased, as have the sums demanded. This has the effect of driving businesses out of business and sex workers to the street or internet as freelancers.\n\nThe exact number of child-prostitutes in Thailand is not known. According to the US-based research institute “Protection Project”, estimates of the number of children involved in prostitution living in Thailand ranges from 12,000 to the hundreds of thousands (ECPAT International). The government, university researchers, and NGOs estimated that there are as many as 30,000 to 40,000 prostitutes under 18 years of age, not including foreign migrants (US Department of State, 2005b). Thailand’s Health System Research Institute estimates that children in prostitution make up 40% of prostitutes in Thailand.\n\nThe reasons why and how children are commercially sexually exploited by include:\n\nChildren are exploited in sex establishments and are also approached directly in the street by paedophiles seeking sexual contact. Child sex tourism is a serious problem in the country. Thailand, along with Cambodia, India, Brazil and Mexico, has been identified as a leading hotspot of child sexual exploitation. Paedophiles, in particular, exploit the lax laws of the country and attempt to find cover to avoid prosecution.\n\nTo discourage child sex tourism, the government reported it denied entry to 74 known foreign sex offenders in 2017. The government has developed and launched a video to be shown on flights entering Thailand discouraging sex tourism. The Ministry of Tourism distributed more than 315,000 brochures discouraging sex tourism to businesses and tourism professionals and organized trainings for 800 local government officials, tourism sector workers, students, youth, and civil society organizations on prevention of child sexual exploitation in the tourism industry.\n\nThailand is a source, destination, and transit country for men, women, and children subjected to sex trafficking. Thailand’s commercial sex industry remains vast, increasing vulnerabilities for sex trafficking. Women, men, boys, and girls from Thailand, other Southeast Asian countries, Sri Lanka, Russia, Uzbekistan, and some African countries are subjected to sex trafficking in Thailand. Thailand is also a transit country for victims from China, North Korea, Vietnam, Bangladesh, India, and Burma subjected to sex trafficking in countries such as Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Russia, South Korea, the United States, and countries in Western Europe. Thai nationals are subjected to sex trafficking in Thailand and in countries in North America, Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Middle East.\n\nWomen of Thai and other nationalities have been lured to Japan and sold to Yakuza-controlled brothels, where they are forced to work off a financial debt. It is easy to lure these women from neighboring countries because Thailand has 56 unofficial crossover points and 300 checkpoints, where people can cross the border without paperwork. In a landmark case in 2006, one such woman, Urairat Soimee, filed a civil suit in Thailand against the Thai perpetrators, who had previously been convicted in a criminal court. The woman had managed to escape from the Yakuza-controlled prostitution ring by killing the female Thai mama-san and spent five years in a Japanese prison.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons in its 2018 U.S. Trafficking in Persons report considered Thailand to be a Tier 2 country, meaning the report states that although the Government of Thailand does not fully meet the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking, it is making significant efforts to do so.\n\nThailand has enacted several laws against human trafficking. These include the 2008 Anti Trafficking in Persons Act, the 1997 Anti Trafficking Act. Thailand has also entered into regional agreements against human trafficking, including The Coordinated Mekong Ministerial Initiative against Trafficking. Thai sex worker organization EMPOWER has expressed several concerns about the 2008 law. These concerns include that the law authorizes police to enter alleged sex establishments without a warrant, the lack of social assistance provided to victims, involutary repatriations, and the resulting division between NGOs which claim to oppose sex trafficking and those which support sex workers themselves. Sex worker organizations in Thailand have strongly opposed \"rescue\" operations which result in adults who freely entered the sex industry being arrested, denied a livelihood, or subject to deportation. \n\nA sex trafficking gang was intercepted in the southern city of Pattaya in October 2014.\n\nIn 2017, Ministry of the Interior and Ministry of Justice inspected 11,268 “high-risk” adult entertainment venues and ordered 268 to cease business activities for five years; these inspections led to the prosecution of eight trafficking cases. Corruption continues to undermine anti-trafficking efforts. Some government officials are directly complicit in trafficking crimes, including through accepting bribes or loans from business owners and brothels where victims are exploited. Credible reports indicate some corrupt officials protect brothels and other commercial sex venues from raids and inspections and collude with traffickers. \n\nSeveral support organisations for sex workers exist in Thailand.\n\nEMPOWER is a Thai NGO that offers health, educational and counseling services to female sex workers. The organisation seeks to empower sex workers and has been operating since 1985, with offices in Patpong (Bangkok), Chiang Mai, Mae Sai and Patong Beach (Phuket). The organization also operates a museum of sex work in Bangkok and a cooperatively owned bar in Chiang Mai. \n\nSWING (Service Workers in Group) is an offshoot of EMPOWER, offering support to male and female sex workers in Patpong and Pattaya. It offers English classes, teaches safe sex education, distributes condoms, and promotes health and safety with an in-house gym and discounted medical examinations. The newly formed organisation SISTERS works with transgender sex workers in Bangkok and Pattaya.\n\nM Plus is an organization for male sex workers in Chiang Mai, including men who identify as gay, straight or transgender. It operates a health clinic for sex workers and conducts HIV prevention and prophylaxis education. \n\nThe Asia Pacific Network of Sex Workers (APNSW) is a regional organization, headquartered in Thailand, of sex worker led organizations. It exists to promote and protect the health and human rights of sex workers in Asia. It supports the full decriminalization of sex work and the recognition of sex work as work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3128629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3128629", "title": "Seattle Erotic Art Festival", "text": "Seattle Erotic Art Festival\n\nSeattle Erotic Art Festival was founded in 2002 by the Center for Sex Positive Culture. It is now the flagship program of the nonprofit Foundation for Sex Positive Culture.\n\nThe Festival supports a vibrant creative community, promotes freedom of expression, and fosters sex-positive culture through public celebration of the arts.\n\nIt is an annual weekend-long event, and showcases erotic art in diverse media including painting, photography, sculpture, film, literature, and interactive installations. A wide range of performance art is also represented, including burlesque, ballroom dance, circus arts, and live music.\n\nThe Festival also features an expansive store which sells original works, prints, oddities, collectibles and related merchandise from contributing artists.\n\nArt in the Festival is intended to celebrate the entire gamut of erotic expression, including surrealist imagery, gender politics, homoeroticism, and BDSM, among many others.\n\nThe 2011 Seattle Erotic Art Festival took place Thursday, May 19 through Sunday May 22 at the Fremont Studios located in Fremont, Seattle, Washington. The theme for the 2011 event was \"Red light district\" and was expected to draw thousands of patrons.<ref name=\"http://seattle-erotic.org/2011/04/04/hello-world-2-2/\"></ref>\n\n2011 was the first year that two artists placed in both the Jury Awards and the Viewer's Choice.\n\nThe jury winners were:\n\nThe viewers' choice winners were:\n\nThe 2010 Seattle Erotic Art Festival occurred April 30 through May 2, 2010 at the Seattle Center Exhibition Hall in Seattle, Washington. It opened the Cabinet of Curiosities, showcasing visual, performance and literary art, interactive installations, film, after parties, workshops, and a museum-quality Festival Store. Creative inspiration was drawn from 17th century Europe, when the wealthy and the well-traveled collected beautiful, grotesque and obscure things into encyclopedic collections known as \"cabinets of curiosities.\" In the Festival’s erotic interpretation, the cabinet held a fantastical celebration of the arts.\n\nVisual Art\n\nThe Festival showcased a world-class visual art exhibition. Festival jurors and curators selected a variety of art from over 1,600 entries submitted by more than 400 artists. “We’re excited to present a comprehensive collection of international art, diverse in medium, sexual proclivities, body type, age, ethnicity, and gender,” says Festival Director Anna Hurwitz.\n\nPerformance\n\nThe 2010 Festival included an original theatrical production entitled \"Cabaret de Curiosités\", written and directed by award-winning NYC-based director Roger Benington. This piece was produced in collaboration with locally and nationally recognized performance artists, including an original score composed by John Woods from The Wet Spots.\n\nInteractive Installations \n\nThe Festival offered its first grant to artists to create interactive art installations. Audience members were invited to help artist Nancy Peach complete a massive canvas; to write and receive love letters in a special bedroom designed by award-winning artist Ellen Forney and Jacob Peter Fennell; to lounge on luxurious metalwork beds and to engage the art in many other ways.\n\nLiterary Art\n\nReturning for its second year, the Literary Art Showcase presented jury-selected poems, short stories and plays in intimate readings. The Festival spotlighted Naked Girls Reading on Friday and Saturday nights.\n\nMore information about the Festival is available at www.SeattleErotic.org.\n\nThe eighth annual Festival was bigger than ever before, drawing together locally and nationally acclaimed artists to celebrate the diverse forms of eroticism and human sexual expression. All media are represented - including film, which was first featured in 2003.\n\nThe jurors for the 2010 year were Jen Graves, Daniel Carrillo, Dianne Elliott and Sharon Arnold, with guest curator Chris Crites.\n\nThe seventh annual Festival drew together a comprehensive collection of international contemporary fine art that celebrated the wide diversity of human sexual expression and the incredible creativity with which artists approach the subject of erotica. All media were represented: painting, photography, sculpture, assemblage, prints, installation, mixed media and more. Artists were selected by a panel of jurors or invited to exhibit by Festival curators.\n\nMarita Holdaway (owner Benham Gallery), Jena Scott (director artReSource Gallery) and Jerry Slipman (owner Pacini Lubel Gallery), graciously served as the 2009 Festival jury. Artist and writer Sharon Arnold served as Guest Curator. They selected work based on quality of execution, originality of subject and depth of emotion from more than 2,000 pieces submitted by hundreds of artists worldwide.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17084852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17084852", "title": "Senegalese wrestling", "text": "Senegalese wrestling\n\nSenegalese wrestling (\"Njom\" in Serer, \"Lutte sénégalaise\" or simply \"Lutte avec frappe\" in French, \"Laamb\" in Wolof, \"Siɲɛta\" in Bambara) is a type of folk wrestling traditionally performed by the Serer people and now a national sport in Senegal and parts of The Gambia, and is part of a larger West African form of traditional wrestling (fr. \"Lutte Traditionnelle\"). The Senegalese form traditionally allows blows with the hands (\"frappe\"), the only one of the West African traditions to do so. As a larger confederation and championship around Lutte Traditionnelle has developed since the 1990s, Senegalese fighters now practice both forms, called officially \"Lutte Traditionnelle sans frappe\" (for the international version) and \"Lutte Traditionnelle avec frappe\" for the striking version.\n\nIt takes its root from the wrestling tradition of the Serer people - formally a preparatory exercise for war among the warrior classes depending on the technique. In Serer tradition, wrestling is divided into different techniques with \"mbapate\" being one of them. It was also an initiation rite among the Serers, the word \"Njom\" derives from the Serer principle of Jom (from Serer religion), meaning heart or honour in the Serer language. The \"Jom\" principle covers a huge range of values and beliefs including economic, ecological, personal and social values. Wrestling stems from the branch of \"personal values\" of the Jom principle. One of the oldest known and recorded wrestler in Senegambia was Boukar Djilak Faye (a Serer) who lived in the 14th century in the Kingdom of Sine. He was the ancestor of the Faye Paternal Dynasty of Sine and Saloum (both Kingdoms in present-day Senegal). The \"njom\" wrestling spectacle was usually accompanied by the \"kim njom\" - the chants made by young Serer women in order to reveal their gift of \"poetry\" (\"ciid\" in Serer ). The Wolof word for wrestling - \"Laamb\", derives from the Serer language \"Fara-Lamb Siin\" (\"Fara\" of Mandinka origin whilst \"Lamb\" of Serer origin) the chief griot who used to beat the \"tam-tam\" of Sine called \"Lamb\" or \"Laamb\" in Serer. The \"lamb\" was part of the music accompaniment of wrestling in pre-colonial times as well as after Senegal's independence. It was also part of the \"Njuup\" tradition (a conservative Serer music repertoire, the progenitor of Mbalax).\n\nTranscending ethnic groups, the sport enjoys the status of national sport. Traditionally, young men also used to fight as a distraction, to court wives, prove their manliness, and bring honor to their villages. Usually each wrestler (called mbër) performed a bàkk before the start of the combat.\n\nIn general, \"bàkk\" (which could also be spelled as baku, bakku, bakkous) is an oral art performance that is used to boast about oneself in order to instill a sense of fear or reverence in the audience or rivals. Bàkk is not only used in the context of wrestling but can also be used in political speeches or other encounters in which someone feels the need to brag about his accomplishments to receive admiration. Not only is bàkk used to brag about oneself, but it can also be used to offer respect to one’s elders. The performance of bàkk can be in narratives, praise songs, or poems. Bàkk is used to complement the wrestler’s physical presence by adding artistic elegance and verbal cleverness. Wolof wrestlers use the bàakk to present themselves as exceptional and impressive.\n\nThe oral art of the bàkk, used by the Senegalese wrestlers, has its history in \"griots\". Historically, Wolof griots and griottes were singers tasked with relaying the eulogies of heroes and heroines who overcame hardships. Griots were used to sing praises to kings, wrestlers, and nobles in general. Griots usually came from lower castes and their task of singing praise was unique. They would accompany wrestlers, who usually came from upper castes, to the arenas. In more contemporary times, Wolof wrestlers will now sing their own praises, which challenges the societal norm of praises only being sung by griots.\n\nIn the 1980’s Senegalese wrestler, Mame Gorgui (called “The Darling Child of Dakar”) performed a notable bàkk, which made him popular among the Senegalese people. This famous bàkk was repeated often by children in Senegal and sang on the national radio on weekends during which combats took place.\n\nToday bàkk is very popular in the country as an indication of male athletic strength and ability. Presently, wrestling is arranged by business-promoters who offer prizes for the winners.\n\nOne of the main objectives is to throw the opponent to the ground by lifting him up and over, usually outside a given area.\n\nSenegalese wrestlers train extremely hard and may perform press ups and various difficult physical exercises throughout the day to build up their strength. However while they believe strength is important they also believe that there is an element of luck in the winner, and may perform rituals before a match to increase their chances. Common to Senegalese wrestlers is rubbing a foot on a stone or rubbing themselves with lotions or oils to increase \"good luck\".\n\nIn April 2008 a BBC documentary entitled \"Last Man Standing\" covered the lives of a group of British and American hopefuls at a boot camp in Senegal who took on Senegalese opponents. Laamb was featured in the 2005 film \"L'Appel des arènes\" (English title \"Wrestling Grounds\").\n\nLaamb is the Wolof word for wrestling which is borrowed from Serer \"Fara-Lamb Siin\". The Serer word for wrestling is \"njom\" which derives from the Serer word \"jom\" (\"heart\" or \"honour\").\n\nSince the 1950s, Senegalese Wrestling, like its counterparts in other areas of West Africa, has become a major spectator sport and cultural event. The champions of traditional wrestling events are celebrities in Senegal, with fighters such as Yékini (Yakhya Diop), Tyson (Mohamed Ndao), and Bombardier (Serigne Ousmane Dia) the best known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "196741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196741", "title": "Severe acute respiratory syndrome", "text": "Severe acute respiratory syndrome\n\nSevere acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a viral respiratory disease of zoonotic origin caused by the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). Between November 2002 and July 2003, an outbreak of SARS in southern China caused an eventual 8,098 cases, resulting in 774 deaths reported in 37 countries, with the majority of cases in China (9.6% fatality rate) according to the World Health Organization (WHO). No cases of SARS have been reported worldwide since 2004. In late 2017, Chinese scientists traced the virus to cave-dwelling Horseshoe bats in Yunnan province.\n\nInitial symptoms are flu-like and may include fever, muscle pain, lethargy symptoms, cough, sore throat, and other nonspecific symptoms. The only symptom common to all patients appears to be a fever above . SARS may eventually lead to shortness of breath and/or pneumonia; either direct viral pneumonia or secondary bacterial pneumonia.\n\nThe average incubation period for SARS is 4-6 days, although rarely it could be as short as 1 day or as long as 14 days.\n\nThe primary route of transmission for SARS is contact of the mucous membranes with respiratory droplets or fomites. Whilst diarrhea is common in people with SARS, the fecal-oral route does not appear to be a common mode of transmission. The basic reproduction number of SARS, R, ranges from 2 to 4 depending on different analyses. Control measures introduced in April 2003 reduced this down to 0.4.\n\nSARS may be \"suspected\" in a patient who has:\n\nFor a case to be considered \"probable,\" a chest X-ray must be positive for atypical pneumonia or respiratory distress syndrome.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) has added the category of \"laboratory confirmed SARS\" for patients who would otherwise be considered \"probable\" but who have not yet had a positive chest X-ray changes, but have tested positive for SARS based on one of the approved tests (ELISA, immunofluorescence or PCR).\n\nWhen it comes to the chest X-ray the appearance of SARS is not always uniform but generally appears as an abnormality with patchy infiltrates.\n\nThere is no vaccine for SARS. Isolation and quarantine remain the most effective means to prevent the spread of SARS. Other preventative measures include:\n\nMany public health interventions were taken to help control the spread of the disease; which is mainly spread through respiratory droplets in the air. These interventions included earlier detection of the disease, isolation of people who are infected, droplet and contact precautions, and the use of personal protective equipment (PPE); including masks and isolation gowns. A screening process was also put in place at airports to monitor air travel to and from affected countries. Although no cases have been identified since 2004, the CDC is still working to make federal and local rapid response guidelines and recommendations in the event of a reappearance of the virus.\n\nSARS is most infectious in severely ill patients, which usually occurs during the second week of illness. This delayed infectious period meant that quarantine was highly effective; people who were isolated before day five of their illness rarely transmitted the disease to others.\n\nAntibiotics are ineffective, as SARS is a viral disease. Treatment of SARS is largely supportive with antipyretics, supplemental oxygen and mechanical ventilation as needed.\n\nPeople with SARS must be isolated, preferably in negative pressure rooms, with complete barrier nursing precautions taken for any necessary contact with these patients.\n\nSome of the more serious damage caused by SARS may be due to the body's own immune system reacting in what is known as cytokine storm.\n\nAs of 2017, there is no cure or protective vaccine for SARS that has been shown to be both safe and effective in humans. The identification and development of novel vaccines and medicines to treat SARS is a priority for governments and public health agencies around the world. MassBiologics, a non-profit organization engaged in the discovery, development and manufacturing of biologic therapies, is cooperating with researchers at NIH and the CDC in developing a monoclonal antibody therapy that demonstrated efficacy in animal models.\n\nSeveral consequent reports from China on some recovered SARS patients showed severe long-time sequelae exist. The most typical diseases include, among other things, pulmonary fibrosis, osteoporosis, and femoral necrosis, which have led to the complete loss of working ability or even self-care ability of these cases. As a result of quarantine procedures, some of the post-SARS patients have been documented suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and major depressive disorder.\n\nSARS was a relatively rare disease; at the end of the epidemic in June 2003, the incidence was 8422 cases with a case-fatality rate of 11%.\n\nThe case-fatality ratio ranges from 0% to 50% depending on the age group of the patient. Patients under 24 were least likely to die; those 65 and older were most likely to die.\n\nThe viral outbreak can be genetically traced to a colony of cave-dwelling horseshoe bats in China's Yunnan province.\n\nThe SARS epidemic appears to have started in Guangdong Province, China in November 2002 where the first case was reported that same month. The patient, a farmer from Shunde, Foshan, Guangdong, was treated in the First People's Hospital of Foshan. The patient died soon after, and no definite diagnosis was made on his cause of death. Despite taking some action to control it, Chinese government officials did not inform the World Health Organization of the outbreak until February 2003. This lack of openness caused delays in efforts to control the epidemic, resulting in criticism of the People's Republic of China from the international community. China has since officially apologized for early slowness in dealing with the SARS epidemic.\n\nThe outbreak first appeared on 27 November 2002, when Canada's Global Public Health Intelligence Network (GPHIN), an electronic warning system that is part of the World Health Organization's Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN), picked up reports of a \"flu outbreak\" in China through Internet media monitoring and analysis and sent them to the WHO. While GPHIN's capability had recently been upgraded to enable Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish translation, the system was limited to English or French in presenting this information. Thus, while the first reports of an unusual outbreak were in Chinese, an English report was not generated until 21 January 2003. The first super-spreader, Zhou Zoufeng was admitted to the Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital in Guangzhou on January 31, which soon spread the disease to nearby hospitals.\n\nSubsequent to this, the WHO requested information from Chinese authorities on 5 and 11 December. Despite the successes of the network in previous outbreak of diseases, it didn't receive intelligence until the media reports from China several months after the outbreak of SARS. Along with the second alert, WHO released the name, definition, as well as an activation of a coordinated global outbreak response network that brought sensitive attention and containment procedures. By the time the WHO took action, over 500 deaths and an additional 2,000 cases had already occurred worldwide.\n\nIn early April, after Jiang Yanyong pushed to report the danger to China, there appeared to be a change in official policy when SARS began to receive a much greater prominence in the official media. Some have directly attributed this to the death of American James Earl Salisbury. It was around this same time that Jiang Yanyong made accusations regarding the undercounting of cases in Beijing military hospitals. After intense pressure, Chinese officials allowed international officials to investigate the situation there. This revealed problems plaguing the aging mainland Chinese healthcare system, including increasing decentralization, red tape, and inadequate communication.\n\nMany healthcare workers in the affected nations risked and lost their lives by treating patients and trying to contain the infection before ways to prevent infection were known.\n\nThe epidemic reached the public spotlight in February 2003, when an American businessman traveling from China, Johnny Chen, became afflicted with pneumonia-like symptoms while on a flight to Singapore. The plane stopped in Hanoi, Vietnam, where the victim died in The French Hospital of Hanoi. Several of the medical staff who treated him soon developed the same disease despite basic hospital procedures. Italian doctor Carlo Urbani identified the threat and communicated it to WHO and the Vietnamese government; he later succumbed to the disease.\n\nThe severity of the symptoms and the infection among hospital staff alarmed global health authorities, who were fearful of another emergent pneumonia epidemic. On 12 March 2003, the WHO issued a global alert, followed by a health alert by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Local transmission of SARS took place in Toronto, Ottawa, San Francisco, Ulaanbaatar, Manila, Singapore, Taiwan, Hanoi and Hong Kong whereas within China it spread to Guangdong, Jilin, Hebei, Hubei, Shaanxi, Jiangsu, Shanxi, Tianjin, and Inner Mongolia.\n\nThe disease spread in Hong Kong from Liu Jianlun, a Guangdong doctor who was treating patients at Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital. He arrived in February and stayed on the ninth floor of the Metropole Hotel in Kowloon, infecting 16 of the hotel visitors. Those visitors traveled to Canada, Singapore, Taiwan (Republic of China), and Vietnam, spreading SARS to those locations.\n\nAnother larger cluster of cases in Hong Kong centred on the Amoy Gardens housing estate. Its spread is suspected to have been facilitated by defects in its drainage system. Concerned citizens in Hong Kong worried that information was not reaching people quickly enough and created a website called sosick.org, which eventually forced the Hong Kong government to provide information related to SARS in a timely manner. The first cohort of affected people were discharged from hospital on 29 March 2003.\n\nThe first case of SARS in Toronto, Canada was identified on February 23, 2003. Beginning with an elderly woman, Kwan Sui-Chu, returning from a trip to Hong Kong, the virus killed her on March 5 and eventually infected 257 individuals in the province of Ontario. The trajectory of this outbreak is typically divided into two phases, the first centring around her son Tse Chi Kwai, who infected other patients at the Scarborough Grace Hospital and died on March 13. The second major wave of cases was clustered around accidental exposure among patients, visitors, and staff within the North York General Hospital. The WHO officially removed Toronto from its list of infected areas by the end of June, 2003.\n\nThe official response by the Ontario provincial government and Canadian federal government has been widely criticized in the years following the outbreak. Brian Schwartz, vice-chair of the Ontario's SARS Scientific Advisory Committee, described public health officials’ preparedness and emergency response at the time of the outbreak as “very, very basic and minimal at best”. Critics of the response often cite poorly outlined and enforced protocol for protecting healthcare workers and identifying infected patients as a major contributing factor to the continued spread of the virus. The atmosphere of fear and uncertainty surrounding the outbreak resulted in staffing issues in area hospitals when healthcare workers elected to resign rather than risk exposure to SARS.\n\nThe CDC and Canada's National Microbiology Laboratory identified the SARS genome in April 2003. Scientists at Erasmus University in Rotterdam, the Netherlands demonstrated that the SARS coronavirus fulfilled Koch's postulates thereby confirming it as the causative agent. In the experiments, macaques infected with the virus developed the same symptoms as human SARS victims.\n\nIn late May 2003, studies were conducted using samples of wild animals sold as food in the local market in Guangdong, China. The results found that the SARS coronavirus could be isolated from masked palm civets (\"Paguma\" sp.), even if the animals did not show clinical signs of the virus. The preliminary conclusion was the SARS virus crossed the xenographic barrier from asian palm civet to humans, and more than 10,000 masked palm civets were killed in Guangdong Province. The virus was also later found in raccoon dogs (\"Nyctereuteus\" sp.), ferret badgers (\"Melogale\" spp.), and domestic cats. In 2005, two studies identified a number of SARS-like coronaviruses in Chinese bats.\n\nPhylogenetic analysis of these viruses indicated a high probability that SARS coronavirus originated in bats and spread to humans either directly or through animals held in Chinese markets. The bats did not show any visible signs of disease, but are the likely natural reservoirs of SARS-like coronaviruses. In late 2006, scientists from the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention of Hong Kong University and the Guangzhou Centre for Disease Control and Prevention established a genetic link between the SARS coronavirus appearing in civets and humans, bearing out claims that the disease had jumped across species.\n\nIn December 2017, \"after years of searching across China, where the disease first emerged, researchers reported ... that they had found a remote cave in Yunnan province, which is home to horseshoe bats that carry a strain of a particular virus known as a coronavirus. This strain has all the genetic building blocks of the type that triggered the global outbreak of SARS in 2002.\" The research was \"published in the journal \"Public Library of Science Pathogens\"\" and \"was led by Shi Zheng-Li and Cui Jie of the Wuhan Institute of Virology, China... In their paper, the Chinese team warn that another deadly outbreak of SARS could emerge at any time. As they point out, the cave where they discovered their strain is only a kilometre from the nearest village.\"\n\nThe World Health Organization declared severe acute respiratory syndrome contained on 9 July 2003. In the following years, four SARS cases were reported in China between December 2003 and January 2004. There were also three separate laboratory accidents that resulted in infection. In one of these cases, an ill lab worker spread the virus to several other people. Study of live SARS specimens require a BSL-3 facility; some studies of inactivated SARS specimens can be done at BSL-2 facilities.\n\nFear of contracting the virus from consuming infected wild animals resulted in public bans and reduced business for meat markets throughout southern China and Hong Kong. In China, Cantonese foodways, which often incorporate a wide range of meat sources, were frequently indicted as an important contributing factor to the origins of the SARS outbreak.\n\nToronto’s Asian minority population faced increased discrimination over the course of the city’s outbreak. Local advocacy groups reported Asians being passed over by real-estate agents and taxi drivers and shunned on public transportation. In Boston and New York City, rumors and April Fools pranks gone awry resulted in an atmosphere of fear and substantial economic loss in the cities’ Chinatowns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3922992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3922992", "title": "Shaigiya tribe", "text": "Shaigiya tribe\n\nThe Shaigiya or Shaiqiya (Arabic: الشايقيّة) are a Distinct Arab tribe in northern Sudan, living on both banks of the Nile from Kurti down to the Third Cataract, and in portions of the Bayuda Desert. They are Muslims and trace their origin to al-Abbas, an uncle of prophet Muhammad. The Shaigiya, similar to the Manasir, are impacted by the recently-built Merowe Dam, just upstream of Kurti.\n\nAlthough speaking Sudanese Arabic today, the Shaigiya, like the Ja'alin, are known to have spoken some form of Nubian as late as the 19th century. This language, labelled as Old Shaiqi, was apparently closely related if not identical to the Nobiin dialect. \n\nThe Shaigiya are first mentioned in 1529, when an Italian visitor to Upper Egypt remarked that pyramids could be found in their country. They were subjects of the Funj Sultanate, which extended as far north as Dongola. From the sixteenth century until colonization, the Shaigiya had many prominent Islamic schools which attracted students from all over Sudan. Around 1690 the tribe broke loose from the Kingdom of Funj, defeating the Abdelab governor, and were the only independent tribe in the region. The first account of the Shaigiya tribesmen was given by the Scottish traveller James Bruce in his book \"Travels to Discover the Source of the Nile\" (1790) who noticed the tribe migrated from more southern regions to its present homeland around 1772. Still the best early description came from an adventurer and historian John Lewis Burckhardt, who, mesmerized by the Shaigiya, spent some time with the tribe. His accounts of the events were published at 1819 in the \"Travels in Nubia\". The predatory character of the tribe speaks of change from Bruce's time, \"My guide, in constant dread of the Shaiqiya would not allow me to light a fire although the nights were getting very cold\". Evidently, the tribe was ruled by two Macs (the title given by the kings of Funj to tribal chiefs), Mac Jaweesh and Mac Zubeir. Military training of the Shaiqiya youth was brutal, and at very early age they were capable of launching spears from a horseback by astonishing precision. Their unexplainable intolerance of other tribes led to raids against their neighbours and beyond. They attacked villages and caravans as far as Wadi Halfa in the north, and Shendi in the south forcing some families of the neighbouring tribes to emigrate westwards (Danagla). Constantly attacking the town of Shendi and killing some of local Mac Nimr's uncles forced the Ja'Alin to seek help from the king of Funj, who at his political decline was too weakened and unable to help. Burckhardt who spent time in Merowe around 1807 gives us more description of the tribe They were challenged around 1811 at Dongola by the Mamelukes, but continued to dominate a considerable part of Nubia. They resisted the Turkish/Egyptian invasion in 1820, at the battle of Korti after refusing to submit and were defeated due to the use of fire-arms and cannons and retreated southwards. Mac Jaweesh along the majority of his men sought asylum in Shendi in hope to persuade the Ja'Ali chief Mac Nimr to join forces against the much stronger enemy. Mac Nimr declined the offer and the Shaiqiya were handed over to the Turks, who promised to pardon the Shaiqiya warriors and return their land if they accepted the service in Turkish ranks. After the deal was struck Shaiqiya were used during the suppression of the Ja'Alin revolt (1822) and demonstrated astonishing brutality. For their services they obtained lands of the Ja'Alin between Shendi and Khartoum (). \n\nIn the Mahdist War of 1884/85, General Gordon's first fight was to rescue a few Shaiqiya, still serving with the invader and besieged in a fort at Al Halfaya, just north of Khartoum. The fortress at Al-Ubayyid in 1883, was held by Major Ahmed Hussein Pasha (Suarab Section) and despite Hicks Pasha's attempt to relieve him, the fortress fell to the Mahdi. (Major Hussein escaped to Egypt in 1891 and came back during the reconquest in 1898. His family still resides in Omdurman Bahri and Hajar al Asal.) His grand children went far as Germany and America where they go by the name of Hussein.\n\nIn April 1884, Saleh Bey (Saleh Wad el Mek), head of the tribe, and 1,400 men surrendered to the Mahdi's forces. Numbers of Shaigiya continued in the service of General Gordon and this led to the proscription of the tribe by the Mahdi. When Khartoum fell, Saleh's sons were sought out and executed by the Dervishes.\n\nOn the reconquest of the Sudan by the Anglo-Egyptian army (1896/98) it was found that the Shaigiya were reduced to a few hundred families. After this the tribe thrived. They figured prominently in the Egyptian Army and later the Sudan Defence Force. General Ibrahim Abboud, decorated with the MBE for his valour at Keren in 1941, was a Shaiqi from the Onia section and later President of the Sudan in 1964.\n\nThey are known for their bravery, generosity, and enlightenment. \"They are the one to hunt the Lion.\" Freedom-loving and hospitable, they had schools in which all Muslim science was taught, and were rich in corn and cattle. Their fighting men, mounted on horses of the famous Dongola breed, were feared throughout the eastern Sudan. Their chiefs wore coats of mail and carried shields of hippopotamus or crocodile skin. Their arms were lance, sword or javelin. The Shaigiya are divided into twelve sections or sub tribes, each descended from one of the twelve sons of the founder, Shaig. Many jokes involve a shaigiya quarrelling with a jayila. Many times the shaigiya is the sharp, and jayila is the stubborn.\n\nThey have adopted the tribal marking custom of cutting three horizontal lines on the cheeks of their children. This was done with a heated knife but is now a dying custom.\n\nMembers of the Shaigiya tribe speak and write in Arabic. Some sections living towards the Red Sea area have a language that is akin to what the Hadendowa speak. They have an accent which bites off of the last letter of some words. A common name for a male is Al-sir, which is from the Turkish language and means leader. A common name for a female that hardly anyone uses outside of the tribe is Had-Alraid, which means the most amount of love you can give to someone or something.\n\nThere is a special instrument that can be heard in Shaigiya tribal music: the tambour, or Tanbūra, a kind of lyre. The Shaigiya tribe used to make their homes from bricks made of mud and cow dung as other North African and Arab tribes had done. The roofs were made of straw to keep the houses cool. The most common time for men to put art on their bodies is the wearing of henna on their hands for a wedding. Women put hennaon for their own marriage only.\n\nIn the rural areas of the various sub-tribes (or Dars), extended family life features strongly. It is quite common that multiple generations will stay in one house (mother, father, grandfather, grandmother, children, aunts, uncles, cousins). Most households in the Shaigiya tribe consist of extended families. Some men have more than one wife. The head of the house is the father. If the father is not in the home then the mother is the head. If the mother is incapable, then the uncle takes over. The uncle is usually the father’s brother and must act as the father. If the uncle cannot fulfil the role, then the grandfather will take over.\n\nThe main religion of the Shaigiya tribe is Islam.\n\nMost children attend government school. Women are usually the teachers while the men are farming and planting. All lessons are important, but most emphasized are religion, languages, and math. Religion is considered important because children attend religious schools called Khalawi. A Khalawi is a place where kids go to before they enter a school to learn and memorize the Quran. As every body should know they would have to speak a language so somebody understands them, but they also learn different languages to help them later on in life. Math might be very important because if they are selling something, then they will have to do the math so they don’t get mixed up with money and lose their money.\n\nChildren in the Shaigiya tribe like to play a kind of game called \"Seega\" which is similar to tic-tac-toe. First they draw a big square with 9 small squares inside on the sand, two children play, each has five stones, each stone of a different color. Each tries to align their own stones in a line of 3, while the other blocks and tries to prevent his/her adversary from making a straight line.\n\nThe Shaygiya greeting is similar to most other tribal Sudanese greetings or Muslim greetings. When the Shaigiya people meet someone who is older, they say, ”Assalamulaykum haj” or “Marhaba haj”, pat their hands on the left shoulder and then shake hands. If they meet their friend they will say, ”Marhaba” or “Ezayakum”. Ladies hug each other and shake hands.\n\nWhen there is a wedding, the groom applies henna, a kind of black decoration that people usually put on their hands and feet. Henna is applied as a paste made of dried and powdered Lawsonia leaves, with added oil and water. Brides use it in a decorative manner, usually with floral decorations. If applied once, it takes on a reddish hue, twice will turn it black.\n\nEating habits are typical almost throughout Sudan, breakfast is around 10am, lunch is at 3pm and dinner at 7pm. The main course will always be a kind of bread called “gurassa” which is made of flour. It is usually dipped into meat curries. They have black tea with milk and sugar after every meal.\n\nWhen someone dies, funeral rites for the dead are carried out immediately. The families of the dead wear black or white, and the men take the corpse, wash it and cover it with large white sheet and bury it. Widows usually mourn for a stipulated four-month period.\n\nWhen a baby is born, the baby’s mother and the town's women ululate (zagarieet) to announce the baby's arrival, and after 7 days, the family hosts a party to give the newborn baby a name.\n\nMost mornings, men work in the fields tending their crops. Hunting is also popular. Wives take care of children and give food to their husbands when they are working in the field. Boys in the Shaigiya tribe help in the field after school. Girls stay at home to help their mothers and make themselves more beautiful (decorate themselves with fancy clothes and other decorations). They are not allowed to go out very much until 15 years old. The leader of a family always is the father, but when troubles come to the leader, the mother or the uncle of this family will lead instead.\n\n"}
{"id": "3728072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3728072", "title": "Shirani (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Shirani (Pashtun tribe)\n\nThe Shirani ()()—also called Sherani —are a Pashtun tribe, from the Bettani tribal confederacy, who live in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Sherani are mostly settled in the Frontier Region Dera Ismail Khan, in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of Pakistan and in the adjoining Sherani District of Balochistan, Pakistan. Some clans have settled in other surrounding districts of Balochistan; and in the Zabul, Ghazni, and Kandahar provinces of Afghanistan. Diasporic communities can also be found in the Indian states of Rajasthan and Gujarat. \n\nAccording to Syed Amin Amirzai, an elder of Frontier Region Dera Ismail Khan, Sherani was the name of the forefather of the tribe. He had four sons named Abubakar, Hassan, Marhal, and Kaif. The people of clan Oba Khail are descended from Abubakar, clan Hassan Khail from Hassan, clan Marhail from Marhal, and clan Kapip from Kaif. Abubakar and Hassan were born of Sherani's first wife, while Marhal and Kaif were of his second wife. Abubakar and Hassan were preferred to Marhal and Kaif, so the second wife suggested that Sherani marry his serving woman so that son could be equal to Kaif and Marhal and they could have rights equal to Abubakar and Hassan. Sherani married his serving woman, and he named the newborn son Soharh, which in the Pashto language means \"son of serving women\". The clan descended from Soharh is the Soharh Khail, and they live in Mughul Kot near the Sherani District in Balochistan.\n\nAnother tradition, substantiated by the Gazetteer, says that about four hundred years ago Bargha lands were laying waste for fear of the Wazir, and the Sherani were in constant and protracted war with the Bettani. The Sherani leader met a Syed boy who had migrated from Pishin District, sought his supernatural help, and the Sheranis were victorious over the Bettani. The leading Sherani men sent some of their tribe under the boy's leadership to occupy the deserted lands of Bargha. Following the occupation of the Bargha land, the leading men of Sherani told the Syed boy to run his horse from dawn to dusk, with the land within that run to be his allocation of booty. The Syed ran his horse, but before dusk, the horse being overstretched ran down and died, while the Syed was performing his Asar Prayer. This boy later married a Sherani woman and became the progenitor of the Harifal tribe, which now occupies the land.\n\nAll Sheranis, irrespective of their geography, out of courtesy call a Harifal tribe \"Neeka\", meaning grandfather. A position of reverence even above father. When Mountstuart Elphinstone visited this region in the early 19th century, he recorded that the Sherani were led by a \"Neeka\" who was supported by an annual tax of one lamb and one calf on all those who raised those animals. The Neeka served as a judge and a commander-in-chief and derived his authority from the belief that he is under the immediate guidance and protection of Providence.\nThe Neeka commands in their wars, and before any expedition, all the troops pass under his turban, which is stretched out for the purpose by the Neeka and a Moollah. This they think secures them from wounds and death; and they tell stories of persons who have lost their lives from neglecting or disdaining this ceremony.\nThe recognized khan of both the Largha and Bargha Sherani, Khan Mir Ajab Khan, still lives in Largha. Until recently he and his family's leading members used to make periodic visit to Harifal country to pay homage and seek blessings.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the tribal group known as the Sherani was recorded as living on the northwest Punjab border in what became the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) of British India. After annexation by the British, their homeland became a part of the Sherani Agency. The agency occupied an area of , and had a population of 12,371, according to the 1901 census. The Sherani occupied the principal portion of the mountain known as the Takht-e-Sulaiman, and the country southeast from there to the border of Dera Ismail Khan district, close to Balochistan. They were constrained on the north by the Gomal Pass, and beyond that by the Mahsud and Waziri tribes; on the south by the Ustarana and Zimri tribes; and on the west by the Harifal, Kakar, and Mandokhel tribes.\n\nIn June 1891, the first Political Agent of Zhob, Captain I. MacIver (in office 22 January 1890 to 14 March 1898), and Sir Henry visited the area of Takht-e-Sulaiman. Their account, dated 8 August 1894, was published in \"The Geographical Journal\" of that year.\n\nThe people of Sherani district resisted the British occupation. Masho Khan Sherani, a folk hero, was the refractive leader of these Sherani warriors. He was killed during fighting against British army in the \"Silyazi\" area of Zhob district. After his murder, his many companions were arrested, including his confidant Adam Khan Harifal.\n\nIn the northeast of the Balochistan plateau, the Zhob and Sherani basins form a lobe surrounded on all side by mountains. The Sherani district occupies an area of . The general elevation of the district is about .\n\nKaseghar was known to the British as Takht-e-Sulaiman, or Throne of Solomon. With its highest peak at , it marks the eastern boundary of the district. With its sister peak Shinghar, in height, Kaseghar is one of the highest points of the Suleiman range.\n\nTakht-e-Sulaiman shrine is situated on a ledge below the crest on the southernmost bluff of Kaseghar mountain. Many legends are connected with the shrine. One says that Noah's Ark alighted there after the deluge, while another connects the shrine with King Solomon, whose throne alighted on this peak, which has ever since borne the name of Takht-e-Sulaiman.\n\nQais Abdul Rashid (575 AD - 661 AD), who is believed to be one of the progenitors of the Pashtuns, lived in the Suleiman Mountains. Natives call the place where he is buried \"Kaseghar\" (the \"mountain of Qais\", but \"Kase\" because, in the Pashto dialect, there is no \"Q\").\n\nOther peaks include Torghar, which is the continuation of southern hills of the Suleiman range, whose highest peak is Charkundai, above sea level. The mountain ranges west of Takht-e-Sulaiman contain strata of liassic (lower Jurassic), and middle Jurassic (about 146 to 208 million years ago).\n\nThe actual length of the gorge is 4 miles. The enclosing limestone cliffs rise perpendicularly some . The gorge gradually narrows from 20 yards to a few feet. From 1895 to 1905, the British made a road through pass thus connecting Zhob with DIK. Inhabitants of the district generally live in stone-built houses with flat mud roofs, while nomads live in improvised tenements.\n\nRainfall is about . During the monsoon, from July to September, the district receives heavy rainfall, with rain clouds coming from the Gulf of Bengal. The climate is hot and dry in summer. January is the coldest month, with mean maximum and minimum temperatures of about and respectively. July is the hottest month, with mean maximum and minimum temperatures of about to respectively.\n\nGeographically the Sheranis are divided into two groups. Those residing east of the Suleiman range are known as the Largha Sheranis, who fall under the administrative control of DIK, while those residing to the west are called the Bargha Shirans and are under the jurisdiction of Sherani district. This division was effected by the British raj following the Khiderzai Expedition of 1890. The geography of the country makes the separation so complete that the two tribal divisions act independently of each other. The Bargha lands were formerly held by Hazaras, who deserted the country and migrated to Rozgan in the north.\n\nThe modern Sherani district was created in January 2006, following the bifurcation of Zhob District. It is bounded by Zhob on the west and north, on the south by Musakhil (Zimri), on the east the contiguous district is DIK (for ). Dahna Pass links the district with DIK. The district headquarters is under construction at Stano Raaghah. The main language of the district is Pashto.\n\nBesides the populations living in Pakistan and Afghanistan, there is Sherani Abad village in the Nagaur district of Rajasthan, India. That village has four mohallas: Sufiya, Gausiya, Najmiyan and Noori. There are also small villages—like Barnel, Bheniyad, Danta, Hamidpur and Dungari—with Sherani communities. The renowned Urdu poet Akhtar Sheerani belongs to this community. His father Hafiz Mehmood Khan Sherani was a noted author, and it was in his name that the Rajasthan Urdu Academy award was given. This family now resides primarily in Pakistan, in Lahore, Dera Ismail Khan, and Karachi.\n\nSome Sherani Pathans also lived in Vadnagar, Gujarat, India. They lived in Shemberwada, near Samarkand. Pathan Sherani tribes migrated to India during the time of the Mughal Emperor Humayun, who with the support of Sherani Pathan warriors was victorious in battle when he came to India for the second time. During the reign of the Mughal Emperor Akbar (son of Humayun), the Sherani Pathans migrated to Kaligam, near Ahemdabad, Gujarat. At that time, the Nawab of Gujarat sent them to fight the Dodia Rajput near the Rajasthan-Gujarat border. The Sherani Pathan defeated the Dodia Rajput in battle, and took over their land. They were called Shembher (or Summer), since they came from Samarkand.\n\nDuring the era of Amir Amanullah Kahan, many Harifal families migrated to Afghanistan under the British Raj and are still settled there in Loghar, Makwar, and Kabul. Prominent amongst them were Nazak, Harifal, Abdulraheem Harifal, Gooloon Harifal, and Majeed Harifal. Dr. Ghouse Khan Sherani, Dewan of Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar, King of Mysore, settled in Tumkur district, Karnataka. He was a prominent leader of Muslims, and also a freedom fighter. Today there is road named after him as \"Sherani Road\" in Tumkur. His grandchildren settled in Tumkur City and Bangalore City, Karnataka, India.\n\n"}
{"id": "1565067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1565067", "title": "Sápara", "text": "Sápara\n\nThe Sápara, also known as Zápara or Záparo, are an indigenous people native to the Amazon rainforest along the border of Ecuador and Peru. They once occupied some 12,000 mi² between the Napo River and the Pastaza. Early in the 20th century, there were some 200,000 Zapara. From the year 2009 on the Ecuadorian Zápara call themselves \"Sápara\". The official name is Nación Sápara del Ecuador (NASE). It means Sápara Nation of Ecuador. The president of this nation is Klever Ruiz. The Sápara Nation was officially registered by CONDENPE – the Council of Development of the nationalities and peoples of Ecuador – on September 16, 2009. The current name of the organisation is the result of a unification process of upriver and downriver communities. There was a conflict between these different groups about their authentic ethnic identity in the last years of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century. With this unification this conflict seems to be solved. CONDENPE confirms as well officially the legal status of autonomy or self-government of the Sápara Nation of Ecuador N.A.S.E. and confirms their territory between the rivers Pindoyacu, Conambo and Alto Corrientes (Upper River) in the province of Pastaza. It is confirmed as well that the head office of NASE is the city of Shell, Pastaza.\n\nThe name Sápara is also a result of the fact that the alphabetic character Z does not exist in the alphabet of the Sáparas. This is information of Bartolo Ushigua Santi from December 10, 2009. He wrote that this fact is a result of investigations about the grammar of the Sápara language made by the Sápara Board of Education Bilingual – Dirección de Educación Bilingüe Sápara (DIENASE). They found out that the alphabet of the Sáparas ended with the character W.\n\nThey ate palm hearts as their main vegetable and they fished the many rivers of their jungle home. Using blowguns and bamboo darts, they hunted tapirs, peccaries, wood-quail, and curassows. They did not hunt spider monkeys because they believed them to be their ancestors. The 20th century demand for rubber led to the destruction of much of their jungle (and the animals who lived in it) and the enslavement of the people. The men were forced as slaves to cultivate rubber. The women and girls were raped and forced into sexual slavery.\nTheir numbers dwindled precipitously to the point where there are only a few who speak their native language. The oldest surviving Zaparo-speaker is a man, about 80 years old, Pedro Ernesto Santi. He and his family live in a hamlet on the river, home to some forty people.\n\nToday, only four Sápara people, all aged over 70, still speak the Záparo language with some degree of fluency.\n\nThe UNESCO declared the Záparo language as an \"Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\" in 2001\n\nEver since China started lending large sums of money to Ecuador in exchange for crude oil (see China-Ecuador relations), China has pushed for a massive expansion of Ecuador’s oil frontier. This concerns the central-south Amazon and Yasuní National Park in particular. Chinese companies Sipec and Andes Petroleum, which merged with Chinese conglomerate PetroOriental, submitted bids on blocks 79 and 83 within the Yasuní National Park. The Sápara's territory falls entirely within these oil blocks. Block 79 is also home to the Kichwa and Block 83 to the Kichwa and in addition to the Sápara. Opening up this sensitive region to oil development would likely result in cultural genocide and the disappearance of more than one indigenous group.\n\nThe Sápara, along with the Kichwa and mentioned above, have made it clear through multiple assembles, congresses, and in indigenous declarations that they do not want extractive industry, such as oil exploitation, in their territory. Ushigua, the current president of the Sápara Women’s association (Ashinwaka), has been leading the struggle to protect her people’s territory for a long time. Another factor that worsens the already urgent situation is that the Ecuadorian government has been drastically cracking down on organizations and civil society opposing oil expansion. As an outspoken voice, Ushigua has been targeted in public, harassed in her home, received threats and was included in a group of eight indigenous leaders who came under fire when formal complaints were filed with the Department of Justice. “We are currently fighting a battle against oil companies that enter our territories and threaten our very existence,” said Ushigua. “We have reached out to our allies, we are ready to fight with all the strength of our ancestors against the companies and government to protect the land from which we came, a land that must remain free from oil exploration.” \n\nBecause of the threats facing their people, the Sápara Nation organized a congress in Community of Torimbo where they nominated their own native leaders. This nomination was ratified by the Indigenous Sentence through the exercise of the Justice System in the Community of the Jandiayacu, with the participation of the Sápara elders who served as judges. This sentence was recognized by CONAIE and CONFENAIE, the Sápara's own government, in addition to CODENPE, the Council of Development of the nationalities and peoples of Ecuador. The Ecuadorian government however, through the Secretary of Political Management, is now pressuring CODENPE to not recognize this Indigenous Sápara Sentence. Critics believe that in order to exploit oil blocks 79 and 83, part of the Sápara territory, the Ecuadorian government is committing the offense of contempt towards indigenous justice (Article 171 of the Constitution of the Republic amongst others).\n\n\"Talking with Fish and Birds – The Záparo Indians in the Ecuadorian Jungle\", documentary, a film by Rainer Simon (1985 Golden Bear at the International Berlin Film Festival and GDR critics' award for the feature film \"THE WOMAN AND THE STRANGER\"), Director of Photography: Frank Sputh, Germany 1999, 43 minutes, A Simon/Sputh-Production<br>\n\"The Last Guardians\", Social & environmental documentary, by \"Tierra Productions\" (Joe Tucker, Adam Punzano), 44 minutes, The Last Guardians offers a unique insight into the way that indigenous people live and see the world, and also a warning of what the world stands to lose if their rights and beliefs are not respected. The film tells the story of two tribes in the Ecuadorian Amazon as they struggle to preserve their culture and way of life against the encroachment of oil companies. Shot with the Sapara and Kichwa Nations, their messages resonate strongly in our era of climate crisis and environmental degradation, adding to the rising tide of awareness on the great value of indigenous knowledge at this time for the global community.\n\nA \"Message\" of Bartolo Alejandro Ushigua Santi – a former president of the Sápara Nation of Ecuador – in Spanish with the title “Becario Zapara ONU 2007 – Ecuador” you can find in YouTube, June 2007, 2 minutes.\n\nA \"Message\" of Manari Kaji Ushigua Santi, son of Bartolo Alejandro Ushigua Santi – the current (2016) president of the Sápara Nation of Ecuador – in Spanish, subtitled in English, with the title \"Sapara leader Manari speaks from the Ecuadorian Amazon 22.02.2106” you can find on YouTube, February 2016, 4 minutes, Author Susannah Darling Khan.\n\n"}
{"id": "42435933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42435933", "title": "Tcharmil", "text": "Tcharmil\n\nTcharmil (sometimes Tcharmile or mesharmil in French or Spanish) is an expression in Moroccan dialect traditionally indicating a range of marinaded spicy food flavours for meat dishes which includes garlic, olive oil and parsley. It is also a kind of youth subculture, which has gained momentum in recent years among disaffected Moroccan youth.\n\nMore recently the name has been adopted by gangs of youths from the slums of the country. \n\nTheir Modus operandi is to spread extreme fear by placing video images of its members commuting crimes of extreme violence on social media. Most criminals who commit Tcharmil tend to be violent, and usually stab or leave scar wounds on their victim's face despite receiving what they were after (Mobile phones, wallet, etc...). Tcharmil display distinctive hair-styles and seek to emulate the organized Hispanic street gangs of the United States of America such as the Latin Kings. Their preferred weapons are meat cleavers and butchers knives.\n\nThe first attack occurred in a fashionable hair salon in the district of Maârif in Casablanca during March 2014. Three male youths entered and wreaked havoc by wielding machetes. Clients fled in terror. A copycat crime wave ensued occasioning serious assaults occasioning actual bodily harm and violent deaths.\n\nTcharmil although begun in Casablanca, it quickly spread to Fes, Meknes, Agadir, Rabat, Temara Marrakesh and is appearing in other Moroccan cities.\n\nTo combat this phenomenon, the King Mohammed VI of Morocco on 7 April 2014 launched a major national police campaign resulting in multiple arrests.\n\nThe number of recent attacks has been in the rise throughout the Moroccan cities ; This is mainly due to the lack of police force in poor neighborhoods and lack of severe law sentences. Most \"mcharmline\" (perpetrators), usually receive light jail sentences varying between six months to one year in jail if they are caught, allowing them to gain more confidence to commit even more violent crimes upon exiting prison. \n"}
{"id": "2377307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2377307", "title": "Women in heraldry", "text": "Women in heraldry\n\nDue to the differing role of women in past society, special rules grew relating to the blazoning of arms for women. The rules for women and heraldry developed differently from place to place and there is no one single rule that applies everywhere. In general, arms of women were most likely depicted not on shields but on lonzeges or ovals. Different rules exist that depend on the woman's marital status and a married woman would also often make use of her husband's arms in addition to those from her family. In both the English and the Scottish systems of heraldry these differences remain active.\n\nHeraldry has its origins from associations with warfare and the age of chivalry. The traditional shield was also associated with war and so women did not usually display familial arms on escutcheons. Rather, they could display these on various other shapes: more commonly the lozenge, an oval, or a cartouche.\n\nThe crest–a device that sits atop the shield on an armorial achievement–likewise was not accorded to heraldic devices of women as these had associations with warfare.\n\nIn many heraldic traditions, arms generally are passed patrilineally. In other nations, in Canadian heraldry for example, women may inherit arms on an equal basis with their brothers (if any). Women in Canada may also transmit their arms to their heirs, regardless of gender.\n\nIn English, Scottish and Northern Irish heraldry, a woman may bear arms by inheritance from her father or by grant to herself. When unmarried, she displays her arms on a lozenge (a diamond shape) or on an oval or oval-like shape. Traditionally, a woman does not display her arms on a shield, as the shield originated with knights and warfare, and is thus viewed as fitting for a man, but not a woman.\nA married woman may also bear either her own arms or her husband's arms alone on a shield with the shield charged with a small lozenge to distinguish her from her husband.\n\nA widowed woman usually displays the impaled arms on a lozenge-shaped shield, unless she is a heraldic heiress (see below).\n\nIf the woman is an heraldic heiress, her arms are shown on an inescutcheon of pretence, which is a small shield in the centre of her husband's arms. When widowed, instead of showing the impaled arms on a lozenge, she continues to use her marital arms, but placed on a lozenge or oval. In England and Northern Ireland, if there is more than one surviving daughter, each transmits her father's arms on equal terms. In Scotland however, only the eldest surviving daughter transmits her father's undifferenced arms to her offspring.\n\nIn Canadian heraldry, women and men are treated equally for heraldic purpose, reflecting Canadian equality laws. It is therefore common to display the arms of women on shields, rather than on a lozenge or oval, but a woman may still choose to have her arms displayed on a traditional shape.\n\nIn many systems of heraldry, the arms of each living person must be unique. English heraldry has used armorial variants to distinguish the arms of brothers from their father's arms and from each other since the thirteenth century; this is now normally done by the system of marks or \"brisures\" set up by the early Tudor herald John Writhe. Canada adds a unique series of brisures for use by female children who inherit arms. As in other heraldic systems, these cadency marks are not always used; in any case, when the heir succeeds (in Canada, the first child, whether male or female, according to strict primogeniture), the mark of cadency is removed and the heir uses the plain coat of arms.\n\n"}
{"id": "18706213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18706213", "title": "Yabutian languages", "text": "Yabutian languages\n\nThe Yabutian or Jabutian languages are two similar moribund languages of Brazil. They are members of the Macro-Je language family.\n\n"}
