{"id": "49406832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49406832", "title": "Acharya (Jainism)", "text": "Acharya (Jainism)\n\nĀchārya () means the Head of an order of ascetics. Some of the famous achāryas are Bhadrabahu, Kundakunda, Samantabhadra, Umaswami.\n\nIn Digambara Jainism, \"Āchārya\" has thirty-six primary attributes (\"mūla guṇa\") consisting in:\n\nAccording to Jain text, \"Dravyasamgraha\", \n\nThe external austerities (\"bāhya tapas\") are fasting (\"anaśana\"), reduced diet (\"avamaudarya\"), special restrictions for begging food (\"vrttiparisamkhyāna\"), giving up stimulating and delicious dishes (\"rasaparityāga\"), lonely habitation (\"viviktaśayyāsana\"), and mortification of the body (\"kāyakleśa\").\n\nExpiation (\"prāyaścitta\"), reverence (\"vinaya\"), service (\"vaiyāvrttya\"), study (\"svādhyāya\"), renunciation (\"vyutsarga\"), and meditation (\"dhyāna\") are the internal austerities (\"antarañg tapas\").\n\n\"Acharya Pujyapada\"'s \"Sarvārthasiddhi\":\n\nFive kinds of observances in regard to faith, knowledge, conduct, austerities, and power. These are:\n\nSix essential duties (\"Şadāvaśyaka\") of the \"Ācārya\" are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42182742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42182742", "title": "Amirul Hajj", "text": "Amirul Hajj\n\nAn Amirul Hajj is a leader of Hajj pilgrims, appointed by the government body, Hajj commission or religious head.\n\nThe duties of an Amirul Hajj include heading the Hajj pilgrimage, advising appropriate rules and regulation for performing Hajj, leading prayers, and overseeing grievances.\n\n"}
{"id": "99748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99748", "title": "Apsara", "text": "Apsara\n\nAn apsara, also spelled as apsaras by the Oxford Dictionary (respective plurals apsaras and apsarases), is a female spirit of the clouds and waters in Hindu and Buddhist culture. They figure prominently in the sculpture, dance, literature and painting of many South Asian and Southeast Asian cultures. \n\nThere are two types of apsaras; laukika (worldly), of whom thirty-four are specified, and daivika (divine), of which there are ten. Urvasi, Menaka, Rambha, Tilottama and Ghritachi are the most famous among them.\n\n\"Apsarās\" are known as \"vidhya dhari\" or \"tep apsar\" (ទេពអប្សរ) in Khmer, \"accharā\" (Pāli) or \"a bố sa la tư\" (Vietnamese), \"bidadari\" (Indonesian and Malay), \"biraddali\" (Tausug), \"hapsari/apsari\" or \"widadari/widyadari\" (Javanese) and \"aapson\" (). English translations of the word \"apsara\" include \"nymph\", \"fairy\", \"celestial nymph\", and \"celestial maiden\".\n\nIn Indian mythology, apsaras are beautiful, supernatural female beings. They are youthful and elegant, and superb in the art of dancing. They are often wives of the Gandharvas, the court musicians of Indra. They dance to the music made by the Gandharvas, usually in the palaces of the gods, entertain and sometimes seduce gods and men. As ethereal beings who inhabit the skies, and are often depicted taking flight, or at service of a god, they may be compared to angels.\n\nApsaras are said to be able to change their shape at will, and rule over the fortunes of gaming and gambling. Apsaras are sometimes compared to the muses of ancient Greece, with each of the 26 Apsaras at Indra's court representing a distinct aspect of the performing arts. They are associated with fertility rites. The Bhagavata Purana also states that the apsaras were born from Kashyapa and Muni.\n\nThe origin of 'apsara' is the Sanskrit अप्सरस् \"apsaras\" (in the stem form, which is the dictionary form). NB The stem form ends in 's' as distinct from, e.g. the nominative singular \"Ramas/Ramaḥ (\"the deity Ram in Hindi), whose stem form is \"Rama\". The nominative singular form is अप्सरास् \"apsarās\", or अप्सरा: \"apsarāḥ\" when standing alone, which becomes अप्सरा \"apsarā\" in Hindi, from which in turn the English 'apsara' presumably is derived, the 'apsaras' form being the Sanskrit dictionary form. Monier-Williams Dictionary gives the etymology as: अप् + √सृ, \"going in the waters or between the waters of the clouds\".\n\nThe Rigveda tells of an apsara who is the wife of Gandharva; however, the Rigveda also seems to allow for the existence of more than one Apsara.\nThe only apsara specifically named is Urvashi. An entire hymn deals with the colloquy between Urvashi and her mortal lover Pururavas. Later Hindu scriptures allow for the existence of numerous apsaras, who act as the handmaidens of Indra or as dancers at his celestial court.\nIn many of the stories related in the Mahabharata, apsaras appear in important supporting roles. The epic contains several lists of the principal Apsaras, which lists are not always identical. Here is one such list, together with a description of how the celestial dancers appeared to the residents and guests at the court of the gods:\n\nGhritachi and Menaka and Rambha and Purvachitti and Swayamprabha and Urvashi and Misrakeshi and Dandagauri and Varuthini and Gopali and Sahajanya and Kumbhayoni and Prajagara and Chitrasena and Chitralekha and Saha and Madhuraswana, these and others by thousands, possessed of eyes like lotus leaves, who were employed in enticing the hearts of persons practising rigid austerities, danced there. And possessing slim waists and fair large hips, they began to perform various evolutions, shaking their deep bosoms, and casting their glances around, and exhibiting other attractive attitudes capable of stealing the hearts and resolutions and minds of the spectators.\n\nThe Mahabharata documents the exploits of individual apsaras, such as Tilottama, who rescued the world from the rampaging asura brothers Sunda and Upasunda, and Urvashi, who attempted to seduce the hero Arjuna.\n\nA story type or theme appearing over and over again in the Mahabharata is that of an Apsara sent to distract a sage or spiritual master from his ascetic practices. One story embodying this theme is that recounted by the epic heroine Shakuntala to explain her own parentage. Once upon a time, the sage Viswamitra generated such intense energy by means of his asceticism that Indra himself became fearful. Deciding that the sage would have to be distracted from his penances, he sent the apsara Menaka to work her charms. Menaka trembled at the thought of angering such a powerful ascetic, but she obeyed the god's order. As she approached Viswamitra, the wind god Vayu tore away her garments. Seeing her thus disrobed, the sage abandoned himself to lust. Nymph and sage engaged in sex for some time, during which Viswamitra's asceticism was put on hold. As a consequence, Menaka gave birth to a daughter, whom she abandoned on the banks of a river. That daughter was Shakuntala herself, the narrator of the story.\n\nNatya Shastra, the principal work of dramatic theory for Sanskrit drama, lists the following apsaras: Manjukesi, Sukesi, Misrakesi, Sulochana, Saudamini, Devadatta, Devasena, Manorama, Sudati, Sundari, Vigagdha, Vividha, Budha, Sumala, Santati, Sunanda, Sumukhi, Magadhi, Arjuni, Sarala, Kerala, Dhrti, Nanda, Supuskala, Supuspamala and Kalabha.\n\nApsaras represent an important motif in the stone bas-reliefs of the Angkorian temples in Cambodia (8th–13th centuries AD), however all female images are not considered to be apsaras. In harmony with the Indian association of dance with apsaras, Khmer female figures that are dancing or are poised to dance are considered \"apsaras\"; female figures, depicted individually or in groups, who are standing still and facing forward in the manner of temple guardians or custodians are called \"devatas\".\n\nThe bas-reliefs of Angkorian temples has become an inspiration of Khmer classical dance. An indigenous ballet-like performance art of Cambodia, is frequently called \"Apsara Dance\". The dance was created by the Royal Ballet of Cambodia in the mid-20th century under the patronage of Queen Sisowath Kossamak of Cambodia. The role of the apsara is played by a woman, wearing tight-fitting traditional dress with gilded jewelries and headress modelled after Angkor bas-reliefs, whose graceful, sinuous gestures are codified to narrate classical myths or religious stories.\n\nIn Malay/Indonesian, apsaras are also known as 'bidadari', being conflated with the 'vidyadharis', the females of the vidyādharas, another class of celestial beings In Indian mythology. 'Vidyādhara' literally means 'possessed of science or spells', and refers to 'a kind of supernatural being ... possessed of magical power' or 'fairy' according to Monier-Williams Dictionary. The bidadaris are heavenly maidens, living in the svargaloka or in celestial palace of Indra, described in Balinese dedari (bidadari or apsara) dance.\n\nTraditionally apsaras are described as celestial maidens living in Indra's heaven (Kaéndran). They are well known for their special task: being sent to earth by Indra to seduce ascetics who by their severe practices may become more powerful than the gods. This theme occurs frequently in Javanese traditions, including the \"Kakawin Arjunawiwaha\", written by mpu Kanwa in 1030 during the reign of king Airlangga. The story tells that Arjuna, in order to defeat the giant Niwatakawaca, engaged in meditation and asceticism, whereupon Indra sent apsaras to seduce him. Arjuna, however, managed to conquer his lust and then to win the ultimate weapons from the gods to defeat the giant.\n\nLater in the Javanese tradition the apsara was also called \"Hapsari\", also known as \"Widodari\" (from sanskrit word v\"idhyadhari\", \"vidhya\": knowledge, \"dharya\": having, bearer, or bringer), and finally known as \"Bidadari\" in the modern Indonesian language (the same form of the word is now present in the Malay language, as well). The Javanese Hindu-Buddhist tradition also influenced Bali. In Balinese dance the theme of celestial maidens often occurred. Dances such as \"Sanghyang Dedari\" and \"Legong\" depicted divine maidens in their own way. In the court of Mataram Sultanate the tradition of depicting heavenly maidens in dances still alive and well. The Javanese court dances of Bedhaya portray apsaras.\n\nHowever, after the adoption of Islam, bidadari is equated with houri, the heavenly maiden mentioned in the Quran, in which God stated that the 'forbidden pearls' of heaven are for those men who have resisted temptation and borne life's trials. Islam spread in the Malay archipelago when Arabic traders came to trade spices with the Malays; at that time, Hinduism formed the basis of the Malay culture, but syncretism with the Islamic religion and culture spawned the idea of a Bidadari. It is usually seen as a prized offer to those who lived a lifestyle in service to and pleasing to God; after death, the Bidadari was the man's wife or wives, depending on what type of person he was. The worthiness of a man who was offered Bidadari depended upon his holiness: how often he prayed, how much he turned away from the 'outside world', and how little he heeded worldly desires.\n\nImages of apsaras are found in several temples of ancient Java dating from the era of the Sailendra dynasty to that of the Majapahit empire. The apsara celestial maidens might be found as decorative motifs or also as integral parts of a story in bas-relief. Images of apsaras can be found on Borobudur, Mendut, Prambanan, Plaosan, and Penataran.\n\nAt Borobudur apsaras are depicted as divinely beautiful celestial maidens, pictured either in standing or in flying positions, usually holding lotus blossoms, spreading flower petals, or waving celestial clothes as if they were wings enabling them to fly. The temple of Mendut near Borobudur depicted groups of devatas, divine beings flying in heaven, which included apsaras. In Prambanan temple compound, especially in Vishnu temple, along the gallery, some images of male devata are found flanked by two apsaras.\n\nAngkor Wat, the largest Angkorian temple (built AD 1116–1150), features both \"apsaras\" and \"devata\", however the devata type are the most numerous with more than 1,796 in the present research inventory. Angkor Wat architects employed small apsara images (30–40 cm as seen at left) as decorative motifs on pillars and walls. They incorporated larger devata images (all full-body portraits measuring approximately 95–110 cm) more prominently at every level of the temple from the entry pavilion to the tops of the high towers. In 1927, Sappho Marchal published a study cataloging the remarkable diversity of their hair, headdresses, garments, stance, jewelry and decorative flowers, which Marchal concluded were based on actual practices of the Angkor period. Some devatas appear with arms around each other and seem to be greeting the viewer. \"The devatas seem to epitomize all the elements of a refined elegance,\" wrote Marchal.\n\nApsaras were also an important motif in the art of Champa, medieval Angkor's neighbor to the east along the coast of what is now central Vietnam. Especially noteworthy are the depictions of apsaras in the Tra Kieu Style of Cham art, a style which flourished in the 10th and 11th centuries AD.\n\nApsaras are often depicted as flying figures in the mural paintings and sculptures of Buddhist cave sites in China such as in the Mogao Caves, Yulin Caves, and the Yungang and Longmen Grottoes. They may also be depicted as dancers or musicians. They are referred to as feitian (飞天) in Chinese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2266836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2266836", "title": "Association for Better Living and Education", "text": "Association for Better Living and Education\n\nThe Association for Better Living and Education (ABLE) is a non-profit organization headquartered in Los Angeles, California, established by the Church of Scientology. It states that it is \"dedicated to creating a better future for children and communities.\" It promotes secular uses of L. Ron Hubbard's works, and has been classified as a \"Scientology-related entity\". Founded in 1988, ABLE's main office is located at 7065 Hollywood Boulevard, the former headquarters for the Screen Actors Guild.\n\nABLE acts as an umbrella organization for four entities:\n\nAlthough various Scientology groups are registered as legally separate corporations and entities, critics note this has no bearing on whether or not they are controlled by the Church of Scientology. Studytech.org, a Scientology watchdog site, notes: \"Applied Scholastics is indeed a legally separate corporation. However, it has so many ties to the Church of Scientology and its corporate alter ego, the Church of Spiritual Technology, that it cannot be regarded as being anything other than a Scientology subsidiary.\n\nNanette Asimov, reporter for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", in an article critical of ABLE and Narconon, summed it up this way:\nA popular anti-drug program provided free to schools in San Francisco and elsewhere teaches concepts straight out of the Church of Scientology, including medical theories that some addiction experts described as \"irresponsible\" and \"pseudoscience.\" As a result, students are being introduced to some beliefs and methods of Scientology without their knowledge.\n\nABLE and its groups were included in the 1993 closing agreement between the IRS and the Church of Scientology, and are classified as \"Scientology-related entities\".\n\n"}
{"id": "15829200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15829200", "title": "Atys (King of Alba Longa)", "text": "Atys (King of Alba Longa)\n\nIn Roman mythology, Atys (said to have reigned 989-963 BC) was a descendant of Alba and the sixth king of Alba Longa.\n"}
{"id": "20800631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20800631", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Finland", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Finland\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Finland began with contact between traveling Scandinavians with early Persian believers of the Bahá'í Faith in the mid-to-late 19th century while Finland was politically part of the Russian Empire. In the early 20th century `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, requested Bahá'ís from the United States and Canada consider Scandinavian countries and Russia among the places Bahá'ís should pioneer to. Later, after Finland gained independence from Russia, Bahá'ís began to visit the Scandinavian area in the 1920s. Following a period of more Bahá'í pioneers coming to the country, Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies spread across Finland while the national community eventually formed a Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly in 1962. Some estimates in 2004 of the Bahá'ís in Finland number about 500 Bahá'ís including a winner of human rights award and a television personality. In 2005 there was an estimate of over 1,700 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia).\n\nThe first mentions of the religion among Scandinavians happened in the era when Finland was politically united with the Russian Empire; the first mention of the Báb, who Bahá'ís view as the herald to the founder of the religion, Bahá'u'lláh, was published in accounts of Persian travels by Scandinavians in 1869, and the first mentions of Bahá'u'lláh were made in 1896.\n\nShoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, visited Finland in 1926. Josephine Kruka, Knight of Bahá'u'lláh, entered Finland and later, in 1938, Pastor Väinö Rissanen became the first Bahá’í of Finland and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Finland was formed in Helsinki in 1953.\n\nIn 1957 Finland, Denmark, and other Scandinavian countries formed a regional Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly. In 1959, Brigitte Hasselblatt moved to Turku from the Shetland Islands and married Milton Lundblade. After living some years there she moved to the United States but returned again to Finland to Salo in the summer of 1984 (in the mean time their first son Laurence Lundblade would later be one of the initial authors of the e-mail client Pine.) For 1957 through 1962 Finland Bahá'í institutions were part of the regional National Spiritual Assembly of Scandinavia and Finland. In 1960, Hand of the Cause Adelbert Muhlschlegel visited in Finland. In 1962 Sweden, Finland, and Norway each elected their own National Spiritual Assembly. The members of the National Assembly who participated in the election of the Universal House of Justice in 1963 were Quentin Hamilton Farrand, Godratollah Bidardel, Jeanne Welsh Farrand, Greta Sofia Jankko-Badeau, Rafael Garcia, Aminda Josephine Kruka, Elsa Maria Cubilla de Garcia, Mozaffar Namdar, Marco Antonio Martinez S., Gudrun Ofstegaard, Marcia Isabel Matamoros, Maija-Liisa Ravola, Mauricio Hernandez Munoz, Sirkka Inkeri Salmi, Josd Marfa Padilla, Mailis Kaarino Talvenheimo, Gabriel Torres S., and Habibu'llah Zabihian. By the end of 1963 there were local spiritual assemblies in Helsinki, Lahti, Tampere, Turku, and groups of Bahá'ís in Kaaresuvanto and isolated Bahá'ís in Hämeenlinna, Kilo, Koski Tl, Rovaniemi, and Vartsalo.\n\nFollowing this period of largely internal development, the Bahá'í Faith in Finland began to be involved in regional developments. In the 1970s and 80s Finland Bahá'ís helped translate Bahá'í literature into Estonian, Lithuanian and Latvian. Finland was among the national communities that responded to a survey on status of women in the community which was tabulated and summarized for the 1974 Statement to the 25th session of the UN Commission on the Status of Women. In the mid-1960s in Alaska Angeline Giachery conceived of a plan to spread the religion across the circumpolar area and the idea received attention at the Intercontinental Conference in Helsinki in 1976 which was also attended by Hand of the Cause Ugo Giachery. Roma Raciulyte became a Bahá'í during a trip to Finland in the 1970s and is generally considered the first Lithuanian Bahá'í in recent times.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. Since the 1980s the Bahá'ís of Finland have greatly diversified their endeavours. In the late 1980s a group of Bahá'í musicians based in Naantali composed an album, \"Pohjantähti\" (North Star) simultaneously in Finnish and English out of a quest to be culturally creative instead of merely translating foreign interpretations of the religion into song. In 1990 Alaskan Bahá'ís visited Finland as part of a circumpolar campaign to spread the religion especially among indigenous peoples. In January 1998 Dr. Sylvia I. Karlsson lead the Finnish Bahá'í community national convention on a full day seminar on ethical dimensions of Agenda 21 and sustainable development by giving the keynote talk as well as preparing parallel workshops on various chapters of Agenda 21 and summarizing the discussions. The position of the Bahá'í Faith in Finland reached national acknowledgment when in 1999 the educational authorities in Finland included courses mentioning the Bahá'í Faith in the curricula of primary and secondary schools. This relationship between national and civic events continued when in 2002 the Bahá'í community of Lappeenranta registered their regularly held public meeting for World Religion Day. This discussion was on the subject of world peace with participants of local Christian, civic and Muslim groups building on a decade of efforts. In 2003, Iranian Bahá'í émigré Melody Karvonen was awarded the 2003 Human Rights Worker of the Year by the Finnish League for Human Rights. The same year the government of Finland co-sponsored a resolution of the United Nations which was passed by a vote of 73 to 49, with 50 abstentions, by the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly expressing \"serious concern\" over continuing violations of human rights in Iran—and mentions specifically \"continuing discrimination\" against Bahá'ís and other religious minorities. (see Persecution of Bahá'ís.) Most recently, in 2003, the play \"The Seven Valleys\" was premiered at the Naantali Theatre and reviewed by Pentti Narvanen of the newspaper Rannikkoseudun sanomat. Based on the work of the same name by Bahá'u'lláh, the play has since been shown at other venues including in Lappeenranta. Aram Aflatuni is a Bahá'í TV talk show host of Härkää Sarvista, or \"Grab the Bull by the Horns\", which aired in Finland in 2007 with a 20 percent of the TV audience for its time period with a format that emphasizes using a panel of experts and cooperative discussions to try to solve it. Hartmut Grossmann was born in Germany, was a lecturer and head of the German Department of the Translators' Training Institute at University of Joensuu in Savonlinna. He has served on the National Spiritual Assemblies of the Bahá'ís of Germany and of Finland and then ultimately on the Universal House of Justice. After retiring in 2008, he and his wife, Ursula, moved back to Finland.\n\nWhile no statistics on the numbers of Baha'is have been released, the Finland Census reports about 0.9 - 1.2% of the population as religious but non-Christian. The Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland estimates the 2004 population of Bahá'ís to be approximately 500. Operation World, another Christian organization, estimated 0.01%, also about 500 Bahá'ís, in 2003. In 2005 there was an estimate of 1668 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21066747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21066747", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Rwanda", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Rwanda\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Rwanda begins after 1916 with a mention by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, that Bahá'ís should take the religion to the regions of Africa. The first specific mention of Rwanda was in May 1953 suggesting the expanding community of the Bahá'í Faith in Uganda look at sending pioneers to neighboring areas like Ruanda. The first settlers of the religion arrived in the region by July 1953 when Bahá'ís from the United States and Malawi arrived. By 1963 there were three Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies in Burundi-Ruanda. Through succeeding organizations of the countries in the region, the National Spiritual Assembly of Rwanda was formed in 1972. Bahá'ís, perhaps in the thousands, were among those who perished in the Rwandan Genocide Following the disruption of the Rwandan Civil War the national assembly was reformed in 1997. The Bahá'ís of Rwanda have continued to strive for inter-racial harmony, a teaching which Denyse Umutoni, an assistant director of Shake Hands with the Devil, mentions as among the reasons for her conversion to the religion. 2001 estimates place the Bahá'í population around 15000 while 2005 estimates from the same source shows just over 18900.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. Three of the tablets mentioned taking the Bahá'í Faith to Africa, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. These tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919. One tablet says in part:\n\nThe intention of the teacher must be pure, his heart independent, his spirit attracted, his thought at peace, his resolution firm, his magnanimity exalted and in the love of God a shining torch.… Consequently, a number of souls may arise … and hasten to all parts of the world, especially from America to Europe, Africa, Asia ….\nO God, my God! Thou seest how black darkness is enshrouding all regions, how all countries are burning with the flame of dissension, and the fire of war and carnage is blazing throughout the East and the West. Blood is flowing, corpses bestrew the ground, and severed heads are fallen on the dust of the battlefield.\nO Lord! Have pity…\n\nThe first specific mention of Rwanda was from a telegram of Shoghi Effendi in May 1953, while he was head of the religion, in which he is suggesting the expanding community of the Bahá'í Faith in Uganda and other areas look at sending pioneers to neighboring areas like Ruanda.\n\nThe first Bahá'í to travel through Rwanda may have been Marthe Molitor c. 1947 after joining the religion in Belgium though she moved on to the Belgian Congo. The first settlers of the religion arrived in the region by July 1953 when Mary and Reginald (Rex) Collison from the United States and Dunduzu Chisiza, a young Bahá'í from Malawi (then Nyasaland), arrived in Ruanda-Urundi (now the independent countries of Rwanda and Burundi) thus earning the title Knights of Bahá'u'lláh. The first local Bahá'í in Rwanda was Alphonse Semanyenzi. By 1963 there were three Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies in Burundi-Ruanda, though the host cities were not specified owing to difficulties of communication with Bahá'í administration. Prominent early pioneers were Dr. Ataollah Taaid and his wife Zahereh came in 1966.\n\nThe regional National Spiritual Assembly of Central and East Africa was established in 1956, with its seat in Kampala, and embraced Uganda, Tanganyika, Kenya, Belgian Congo, Ruanda-Urundi, and other areas. Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga represented the Universal House of Justice for the 1969 election of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Burundi and Rwanda with its seat in Bujumbura. With the independence of Burundi and Rwanda, the National Assembly was reformed in 1972 for each country. Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum visited Rwanda in 1972 and 1973 about when the community was officially recognized by the national government.\n\nBahá'ís, perhaps in the thousands, were among the 800,000 who perished in the Rwandan Genocide as well as at least one Bahá'í American-Rwandan family that helped rescue refugees. The National Spiritual Assembly of Rwanda lapsed in 1996 following the Rwandan Civil War and was reformed in 1997.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. Since the genocide and war, the religion has been involved in resolving tribal tensions based on its teachings of principle of the oneness of humanity. In March 2000, the national assembly of Rwanda released a statement addressed to the National Commission for Unity and Reconciliation, in which the Bahá'ís urged that consideration be given to making the principle of the oneness of humanity the basis for reconciliation in the country. Some Bahá'ís from the United States have set up a non-profit organization, Orien Aid, to finding, empowering, and training youth for service, and also made a five-year commitment to work in Rwanda starting in 2003. Among the recent conversions is Denyse Umutoni, an assistant director of Shake Hands with the Devil, national coordinator of a public awareness program on social issues called Cineduc (Youth Education Through Cinema), a project funded by DED and UNICEF, she set up after she organized the retrieval of 3000 bodies, including her parents, from a mass grave in 2004. Umutoni was raised Catholic but experienced a crisis of faith but her study of the teachings of the Bahá’í Faith renewed her spirit. Rwandan Bahá'í youth were among those gathered for a five-day conference in 2006 in Bujumbura to discuss how youth can provide the means for peaceful social action and transformation.\n\nThere is an estimate the Bahá'í community was 40,000 before the genocide but more recently there appear to be about 10,000. The World Christian Database (WCD) 2001. In 2005 there were 28 local spiritual assemblies. The 2005 WCD estimate was of just over 18900 Bahá'ís.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13870817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13870817", "title": "Belum Caves", "text": "Belum Caves\n\nThe Belum Caves is the largest and longest cave system open to the public on the Indian subcontinent, known for its speleothems, such as stalactite and stalagmite formations. The Belum Caves have long passages, galleries, spacious caverns with fresh water and siphons. This natural cave system was formed over the course of tens of thousands of years by the constant flow of underground water. The cave system reaches its deepest point ( from entrance level) at the point known as \"Pataalaganga\". In Telugu language, it is called \" Belum Guhalu\". Belum Caves have a length of , making them the second largest natural caves on the Indian Subcontinent after the Krem Liat Prah caves in Meghalaya. It is one of the centrally protected Monuments of National Importance.\n\nBelum came to scientific attention in 1884 by a British surveyor, Robert Bruce Foote and from 1982 to 1984, a team of German speleologists headed by H. Daniel Gebauer conducted a detailed exploration of the caves. Thereafter in 1988, the state government declared the site protected, and Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) developed the caves as a tourist attraction in February 2002. Today, of the caves have been successfully explored, though only is accessible to visitors. There are 16 different pathways, including the main entrance and there are deposits of quartz in the caves. The caves consist of black limestone.\n\nThe Belum Caves are located near Belum Village in Kolimigundla Mandal of Kurnool District in the state of Andhra Pradesh. Kolimigundla is situated from Belum Caves. The caves are an drive from Petnikota village.\n\nBelum is part of a larger complex of caves carved out of the limestone deposits in the \"Erramalai\" region. Other caves include the Billasurgam caves, Sanyasula caves, Yaganti caves, Yerrajari caves, and the Muchchatla Chintamanu caves (caves are called \"gavi\" in the local language).\n\nEven though the \"Belum Caves\" were known to local people, the first records of site come from the expedition report of British geologist and archaeologist Robert Bruce Foote, in 1884. Thereafter, the Belum Caves remained unnoticed for almost a century until a German team headed by Herbert Daniel Gebauer conducted detailed exploration of the caves in 1982 and 1983. The German expedition was assisted by Mr Bacham Chalapathi Reddy (retd. Deputy superintendent of police), Mr Pothireddy Rama subba Reddy (retd.Headmaster), Mr Ramaswami Reddy, Mr Boyu Madduleti, Mr K. Padmanabhaiah, Mr K. Chinnaiah and Mr A. Sunkanna.\n\nBelum Caves are geologically and historically important caves. There are indications that Jains and Buddhists monks occupied these caves centuries ago. Many Buddhists relics were found inside the caves. These relics are now housed in Museum at Ananthapur.\n\nArchaeological survey of India (ASI) also found remnants of vessels of the pre-Buddhism era and dated the remnants of these objects to 4500 years BCE.\n\nA new and second Indian cavernicolous (inhabiting caves) species of the genus \"Andhracoides\" was discovered in the Pataalaganga chamber. The organism is named \"Andhracoides gebaueri\" in honor of Herbert Daniel Gebauer who documented and mapped the complete cave \n\nThe caves were being used to dump wastes from nearby places until 1988. Local people of nearby settlements, notably Policemen and residents of Belum Village co-operated with the Government of Andhra Pradesh and developed the cave site as a tourist attraction. Finally, their almost two-decade long efforts resulted in the Government of Andhra Pradesh declaring the entire area to be a protected zone. Finally, in 1999, the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation took over the task of beautifying and maintaining the caves. The APTDC who has since been in charge of management, sanctioned Rs. 7,5 million to develop the caves. The APTDC has also developed the pathways of around length in and outside of the caves, provided illumination and has created fresh-air-shafts at the site. Inside the cave, APTDC has installed bridges and staircases, and a canteen, bathrooms and toilet facilities at the entry point. APTDC also has built a Haritha Hotel for accommodation in the vicinity.\n\nThere is a sizeable Buddha statue near on a hillock near the caves. One of the caverns at Belum is known as the \"Meditation Hall\", which was used by Buddhist monks. Relics of the Buddhist period were found here. These relics are now housed in a museum in Ananthapur.\n\nThe tourists are charged an amount of Rs. 65.00 for entrance. Foreign Tourists are charged Rs. 300.00 per person for entrance. APTDC has installed electronic gates at entrance. After passing through the gates, one can reach the caves by a metal staircase installed by APTDC.\n\nThe entrance pit was originally smaller than what one sees today. It has been broadened as part of development of the caves to install the staircase to allow visitors to descend and ascend easily.\n\nThe entrance is like that of a Pit Cave. From the ground you can only see two pits side by side and third pit a little further away. After descending around 20 meters by the stairs from the entrance, the caves become horizontal. The first section one enters is called \"Gebauer Hall\" named after Speleologist Mr H. Daniel Gebauer, who had explored and mapped the caves in 1982-1983. The path to \"Gebauer Hall\" leads below the second opening, which lies next to the main entrance.\n\n\n\nThe nearest railhead to reach Belum Caves is Tadipatri, away. There are daily trains from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, Tirupati, Kanyakumari, Thiruvananthapuram, Coimbatore and Goa which halt at Tadipatri railway station. From Tadipatri, one can take a bus to the Belum Caves.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12691237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12691237", "title": "Bishop of Ferns", "text": "Bishop of Ferns\n\nThe Bishop of Ferns () is an episcopal title which takes its name after the village of Ferns in County Wexford, Ireland. In the Roman Catholic Church it remains a separate title, but in the Church of Ireland it has been united with other bishoprics.\n\nThe diocese of Ferns was one of the twenty-four dioceses established at the Synod of Rathbreasail in 1111. It comprised roughly with the ancient territory of the Uí Cheinnselaig with the bishop's seat (cathedra) located at Ferns Cathedral. During the later medieval period the church at New Ross enjoyed quasi-cathedral status.\n\nFollowing the Reformation, there are parallel apostolic successions. In the Church of Ireland, Ferns was united with Leighlin in 1597 to form the bishopric of Ferns and Leighlin.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, the bishopric of Ferns continues as a separate title. The current Incumbent is the Most Reverend Denis Brennan, Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Ferns, who was appointed by the Holy See on 1 March 2006 and was ordained bishop on 23 April 2006.\n"}
{"id": "5661394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5661394", "title": "Caribou mother", "text": "Caribou mother\n\nThe Caribou Mother is an Inuit deity who represents the source of caribou, formerly a vital food source for the Inuit people. She is seen as gigantic, with people and caribou as lice on her enormous body. The Caribous Mother is known as one of the oldest Inuit Deities.\n"}
{"id": "38549125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38549125", "title": "Catholic Church in Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "Catholic Church in Antigua and Barbuda\n\nThe Catholic Church in Antigua and Barbuda is part of the worldwide Catholic Church in communion with the Bishop of Rome, the Pope.\n\nThe only ecclesiastical jurisdiction in this island state is the Diocese of Saint John's - Basseterre, suffragan of Archdiocese of Castries. The Catholic population is about 10,000 people out of a total of 80,000 inhabitants. The bishops of Antigua and Barbuda are part of the Antilles Episcopal Conference.\n\nThe Apostolic Nuncio of Antigua and Barbuda was established on December 15, 1986 with the Papal brief Ut publica et Ecclesiae of Pope John Paul II.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "93148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93148", "title": "Crow religion", "text": "Crow religion\n\nCrow religion is the indigenous religion of the Crow tribe, Native Americans of the Great Plains area of the United States.\n\nIn the Crow language the Creator has many names, such as \"Akbaatatdia\" (One Who Has Made Everything/Maker of All Things Above), \"Iichíkbaalee\" (First Doer/Maker), and \"Isáahkawuattee\" (Old Man Coyote). All names refer to a singular, omnipotent god who the Crow believe to have created the universe. This universe is believed to be made up of three worlds, the first is the physical world, thought to be the smallest of all the worlds, the second is the spirit world, and the third is where God alone lives.\n\nOne of many Crow creation stories for the physical world recalls that Old Man Coyote (OMC) was alone in a large ocean when he saw two male ducks floating upon its surface. In conversation with the ducks the subject turns to what lies beneath the sea. Old Man Coyote encourages one of the ducks to dive, which he does, and after a nervous wait the duck finally surfaces with a root in its beak. Another dangerous dive brings up mud. With this soil Old Man Coyote builds first an island, and then all the lands of the Earth. However the Earth is empty, so Old Man Coyote uses the root to populate the planet with plants and trees. Despite this success the Earth was still not right, it was too flat, so OMC shaped the land to create the rivers, mountains and all geographical features. Again something was missing, Old Man Coyote and the ducks wanted friends, so he moulded Man out of the clay. But Old Man Coyote wanted Man to be happy so he created Women too so that they may be contented together and multiply. He then made female ducks so that ducks may be happy too. The story then develops where Old Man Coyote encounters another Coyote, and they decide to travel together, getting themselves into various situations that eventually creates all animals of the Earth.\n\nIn the beginning it is believed that Crows were close to God, praying constantly to show their devotion, however as time progressed Crows forgot to pray and brought misfortune upon themselves. Crows believe that they must rekindle that bond through prayer if they are to be prosperous, many seeking a personal relationship with God to be individually successful.\n\nCrows will often use 'Grandmother Earth' as a way of expressing the physical things that God created, as God, although part of the physical world, transcends the first world. Because of this God is often referred to hierarchically as being 'Above,' as in superior, rather than physically in the heavens. As God created everything Crows believe that the power of the Creator is in all things, and therefore, all things in nature are sacred. As God created everything and is therefore omnipresent, Crows are in contact with God during every aspect of their daily lives. It is because of this omnipresence and omnipotence that Crows are religiously tolerant. One example of this tolerance is the overview of the world's religions provided by Thomas Yellowtail, a Crow medicine man and Sun Dance chief. Yellowtail used the metaphor of a wagon wheel to describe religious belief, noting that, each spoke represented a unique people and religion. If one spoke was removed, the wheel would not work, meaning all spokes must be present to form the circle of life. All spokes however are connected to the central beam, the Creator. Therefore, all religions and peoples are connected to God, and all equally valid as ways of establishing a spiritual relationship. As a result, Crows can participate in multiple religions, it is up to individuals to decide which methods they believe to be most effective. What is now considered traditional Crow religious practices were most likely developed sometime between 1725-1770, at a time of great cultural change after the Crow acquired their first horses from the Comanche tribe during the 1730s.\n\nThe sacred power of God is called \"Baaxpée\", meaning \"power transcending the ordinary.\" The physical manifestation of \"Baaxpée\" is called \"Xapáaliia\", often referred to as 'medicine,' which represents and acts as a conduit of \"Baaxpée\" given to a Crow by God.\n\nFor a Crow to acquire \"Baaxpée\" they must be given it by a spirit, a \"Iilápxe,\" a super-natural patron from the spirit world. As the spirit world is between the physical and the third world where God dwells, spirits are believed to be intermediaries between man and God and are therefore able to bestow \"Baaxpée\". Crows believe that the world is full of spirits which often take the form of animals, with buffalos, birds and bears being especially revered. The stars, as created by God, are also considered highly sacred and their spirits can interact with humans in the same way as an animal patron. The manifestation of the spirit often defines the type of \"Baaxpée\" they gift, with an Elk spirit, as a strong and independent animal being associated with bestowing increased strength. A squirrel spirit, as it stores nuts for the winter to feed its family, is believed to do the same for humans, helping the tribe find food. The individual features of each spirit will also influence the type of \"Baaxpée\" given, for example a grey haired patron will indicate a gift of longevity. However, there is no set animal patron and \"Baaxpée\" for a Crow, each spirit is individual the person that received its vision.\n\nAccording to the Crows, in the pre-reservation world, there were two primary ways that a Crow may go about acquiring \"Baaxpée\", the first is by going on a vision quest. There are many reasons why a Crow would want to attain \"Baaxpée\" through a vision quest, some may be sick and wish to be cured, others may want to gain strength with which to defeat their enemies in battle, and many want to be blessed by God to guide them throughout their life. Generally the \"Baaxpée\" a Crow wishes to attain through a vision quest is personal and specific to the individual.\n\nBefore embarking upon the quest a Crow might visit a medicine man to help determine what type of \"Baaxpée\" would most aid them, and to go over the rites and prayers to ensure their endeavour follows the rituals. For the quest itself, a Crow will go alone to an isolated and prominent place, often the peak of a hill (Crows especially favour the Wolf Mountains), to gain complete solitude for their ritual prayer.\n\nIn Crow the ritual is called \"bilisshíissanne\", which translates as 'to fast from water,' as the participant vows not eat or drink for two to three days to show their devotion to God through their sacrifice. Self-mortification is also sometimes practiced, the most common being the removal of a finger, as an offering to God and as sign of their dedication. The purpose of these tortures is to show their willingness to give themselves completely to God and gain the pity of a spirit, a representative of God. When a spirit pities the participant they will induce a vision in which the patron adopts the Crow, bestowing \"Baaxpée\". The relationship between the spirit and a Crow is conceived as being paternal, where the spirit as a father guides the Crow child through life, hence spirits will often be referred to as 'Medicine Fathers.' However the \"Baaxpée\" the quester gains is loaned by the spirit, not given entirely, requiring the Crow to pray to their patron to confirm the bonds between them and keep the \"Baaxpée\" strong.\n\nOnce the quest is complete and \"Baaxpée\" gained, the Crow quester would return home, often visiting a medicine man to talk through their vision to fully understand its meaning. To commemorate their experience the quester will create a \"Xapáaliia\" to represent their patron, the power they have gained, and to help a Crow in channelling and maintaining their \"Baaxpée\". For the individual the \"Xapáaliia\" can be anything they deem sufficient to represent the bond between them and their patron, for example if an eagle was their spirit a Crow may decide to take an eagle's feather as their \"Xapáaliia.\" For each Crow their \"Baaxpée\" and their vision is unique and cannot be transferred. However the \"Xapáaliia\" is a physical, powerful, and sacred object which can be passed between Crows, often bestowed upon death to family members, or given to Crows who cannot receive a vision of their own. If a Crow's \"Xapáaliia\" is known to be especially powerful, proven by its ability to influence life, they may find themselves inundated with requests to use it, the decision however it is ultimately up the owner as to who they give it to. The powers that \"Xapáaliia\" bestows to its owner usually reflect the pragmatic concerns of a Crow's daily life, whether this be to gain food, good health, wealth or to bring victory over one's enemies. To keep their \"Xapáaliia\" pure and their patron happy, it is vital that it does not come into contact with menstruates, if it does, this would offend their Medicine Father and bring disease upon the owner.\n\nThe second way in which nineteenth century Crows may attempted to gain \"Baaxpée\" was through a Sun Dance (aškišširissu-a). Unlike the vision quest the Sun Dance is performed by individuals in a public ceremony for the benefit of the whole tribe, performed to ensure the Crow's links to God remain strong, therefore bringing prosperity and happiness. Leslie Spear believed that the Sun Dance ceremony most likely came from the Cheyenne, Blackfeet and Atsina tribes as these groups had the most complex Sun Dance ceremonies. The Sun Dance was banned on the Crow reservation in 1887 as part of the 'civilising' effort that the Indian Office embarked upon during this era. The practise was revived in 1941 when William Big Day, after having attended a Shoshone Sun Dance where he felt an intense connection, performed the first Crow Sun Dance in fifty-four years, believing that its resurrection would bring happiness to the tribe. The practice grew so that by the 1990s an average of five Sun Dances were conducted each summer. In the late 1980s a Teton-Sioux version of Sun Dance was introduced to the reservation, resulting in some dances displaying a hybrid of Shoshone and Teton characteristics.\n\nA smaller, but no less significant ritual, celebrated both in the pre-reservation world and in contemporary Crow society, is the sweat lodge. While this ritual is practiced alone, it is also an important prerequisite to the Sun Dance that tribal members believe purifies the body and prepares the soul for the Sun Dance. This connection is seen in that the Sweat Lodge is often referred to as the 'Little Lodge,' the smaller brother of the 'Big Lodge' in which the Sun Dance is performed. The Sweat Lodge itself in many ways mimics the Big Lodge, being made of twelve poles with the door facing east to welcome the Sun. In the centre of the lodge a 2 ft by 2 ft pit is dug into which hot rocks are placed, heated by a fire to the east of the lodge. An individual is given the duty of placing the rocks in the pit whilst the others sit and pray in silence. The first four rocks must be placed in cross, each to represent the four directions of the wind and the circle of life. Once all rocks are placed the ceremony begins, first an uncounted number of dips of water are placed on the rocks called 'April Showers' to build up the sweat in the lodge. Then the formal four quarters of the ceremony are conducted, with a break in-between each quarter. During the first quarter four dips are placed upon the rocks, the second seven, the third ten, and then the fourth an uncounted 'quarter of a million.' The ceremony is believed to purify the participants, preparing them for the Sun Dance ceremony, which, seen as a form of spiritual endurance and warfare, requires a Crow to be pure to give them spiritual armour.\n\nAlthough the exact origin of the Sweat Lodge is unknown, it was believed by Thomas Yellowtail to have come from the story of the Seven Bison, their male companion, and their fight against the angry bison Bones Together. In the story each of the Seven Bison charges at Bones Together, but break their legs in their attempts due to Bones Together's pure bone armour. Finally it is the turn of the bison's human ally, who before attacking Bones Together prays to God and is blessed by an eagle, who gives him the \"Baaxpée\" to turn into a feather. With this power the man confronts Bones Together, who charges four times, each time missing the man as he turns into a feather and wafts unharmed out of the way as though caught in a breeze. After the fourth charge the man shots an arrow up the rectum of Bones Together, piercing his heart and killing him. Although victorious the man's friends are grievously injured, so together they perform the Sweat Lodge ceremony, which heals all the bison to full strength. Afterwards the Seven Bison transcend into the sky to create the Big Dipper, and the man the Little Dipper. The Sweat Lodge is also mentioned in the story of the Man and the Seven Rams, who, despite his immense ability, respects the Sweat Lodge, recognising its great power.\n\nFollowing purification the Sun Dance ceremony can proceed. However first it is necessary to look at the building of the Big Lodge, the \"Ashé Isée,\" as this is vital if one is to understand the Dance in context and the complex symbolism involved in its construction. The Lodge acts as the closest building that the pre-reservation Crows had to a church, and is constructed by the community on land owned by the dance sponsor. The sponsor is usually an individual of repute who wishes to receive a particular blessing from God or because they have had a vision instructing them to dance. As sponsor it is their duty to gather all the materials required to build the lodge, to set the dance's overall agenda, and to ensure the dance itself is conducted properly by leading key rituals and songs.\n\nThe most important component of the lodge the central pole around which the whole ceremony revolves. A forked tree is chosen by the sponsor and cut down with respect and prayer, if the tree stump exudes sap it is seen as a good omen, and Crows will bless themselves with its excretion. The tree is then taken to the ceremonial site and hoisted into an upright position so that the crotch of the fork faces east. To one of the branches of the fork a white flag is tied, to the other blue, white to represent the earth and blue for the skies, an offering of tobacco is also attached to help Crows communicate with God. Onto the pole three rings are drawn in charcoal to symbolise the number of days in the dance and the three worlds of the Crow universe, the black of the charcoal representing victory. It is in this way that the post becomes a representation of God, a conduit for the \"Baaxpée\" to flow into the dancers. To the central pole are also hung the head of a buffalo and the body of an eagle, patrons who will come to life in the minds of the dancers during the ceremony. Around this totem are placed twelve posts of cottonwood, around forty feet from the centre, creating the boundaries of the lodge, with the doorway on the east side. The twelve poles are a physical manifestation of Crow spirituality, which when connected by rafters to the central post, represents the Crow's connection to God, like that of Thomas Yellowtail's wagon wheel. The twelve posts also represent the twelve months of the year in the Crow life cycle, and by forming a sphere, the circle of life itself. For contemporary Crows who believe both in traditional religious ideas and Christianity, the twelve posts symbolise the twelve apostles, and the three rings on the centre pole the three days that Christ spent in his tomb. It is in these way that the Sun dance lodge is designed to focus and channel the \"Baaxpée\" of God, giving the Crow participants visions and blessing for the whole tribe.\n\nOnce the lodge is constructed the ceremony can begin. Similarly to the vision quest the purpose of the Sun Dance is for a Crow to show their devotion, displaying sacrifice by fasting, and torture by constant dancing, to physically exhaust themselves whilst praying to God, in a lodge heated all day by an intense sun. Traditionally the Sun Dance's primary purpose was to give a mourner God's blessing to take revenge on the tribe that had killed their kinsman, and specifically to enable the participant to harm those individuals responsible for their murder. However, with imposed peace of the reservations the purpose of the ritual had to change, instead there are a variety of reasons for performing a Sun Dance including season renewal, to gain God's blessing, and in rare cases to attain sacred power to help Crows going to war. Although the general aim of a particular Sun Dance may be to bring good luck on the tribe each dancer had their own personal agenda for participating. Some may have wish to receive \"Baaxpée\" through dance induced visions whilst others may have wished to cure illnesses, either for themselves or on behalf of a sick family member. Regardless of their motivation all dancers before the ceremony pledge themselves to Sun Dance manikin, promising to dance for the full length of time that has been announced.\n\nDuring the ceremony the participant made sure to keep their eyes transfixed upon an idol on the pole, as a Crow continuously danced, becoming increasingly fatigued, the figures appear to come alive and dance with them, eventually causing the dancer to collapse and have a vision. If the dancer stared at the head of the Buffalo and danced long enough for the spirit to come alive, it is believed that the patron charged the participant, causing the Crow to have a 'hard fall,' inducing a vision. When a dancer collapsed and entered into a visionary state, other members of the tribe carefully removed them from the ceremony centre, allowing their vision to run its course. When the dancer woke up, they are reinvigorated and quickly re-joined the ritual. To help the dancers attain these visions the drummers play a vital role. Regular rhythms help the dancer to maintain their endeavour, with irregular beatings exhausting the participants. When the drummers see a dancer in the grips of a vision they will increase the strength of their drumming to help them have a 'hard fall.' The Drum chief will often pray for the dancers with the aid of tobacco smoke to help them endure their sacrifice.\n\nWhile in the nineteenth century, the Sun Dance could extend for several days, today it typically lasts for three days. At the start of each day Crows gathered in the lodge just before dawn facing east to welcome the morning's sun. When the first rays appeared over the horizon Crows performed the Sunrise Ceremony, where the participants of the Sun Dance attempted to absorb the power of the sun whilst praying, dancing, blowing on eagle bone whistles, and singing the Sunrise song. During the Sunrise ceremony it is taboo to walk across the entrance of the lodge as this breaks the connection between the dancers and the sun, if an individual has to move from one side of the lodge to the other the must walk around the rear of the building. For the first day of dancing participants dressed humbly in plain clothing to show their humility to God, on the second day however, as the dancers become increasingly tired, bright coloured clothes, face paint, and their strongest medicines were worn to help them in their spiritual warfare. To aid them through this difficult second day, and in recognition of their sacrifice, members of the tribe offered gifts and words of advice, as well as constructed willow structures in the lodge to shade and support the dancers. Willow is significant as it is associated with coolness, providing symbolic relief for the parched participants. The stalls were often painted in yellow ochre, a colour associated with the eagle which Crows believe to be a messenger to God. It was at noon on the third day that the ceremony typically came to an end, with the breaking of the fast by the drinking of blessed water brought by the women of the tribe. After drinking, prayers were said to thank the dancers for their sacrifice and the whole tribe participated in a great feast. By renewing their connection with God the Sun Dance is believed to bestow God's blessing upon the tribe, bringing them good fortune and happiness for the coming year.\n\nBefore the Sun Dance was banned some Crows performed a particular type of self-mortification. Holes would be punctured into the pectoral muscles of the dancers through which rawhide rope would be laced and attached to the pole, the participant would then lean backwards, tightening the rope against their flesh in an act of self-torture. Freedom would only come when the rope had worked its way through the dancer's skin, showing their devotion to God. With the revival of the Sun Dance however this particular practice was not included, and yet it remains one of the enduring images of the Sun Dance to this day.\n\nBoth in the past and the present, performing these rituals without the correct religious attitude would prevent the participant from having any benefit. The greatest gift to God is to do each ceremony with \"diakaashe\", 'he really did it,' that a Crow believed wholeheartedly in God's power, and therefore conducted themselves with sincerity and determination. \"If a person expects to receive something great, then that person will probably never receive anything. The Medicine Fathers do not owe anything to anyone. We must realise this and dedicate our lives to living in accordance with the directions given to us from Above – not just once a year, but every day and year after year.\"\n\nTobacco is also an important component of Crow religion, the plant being honoured in a Crow sect called the Tobacco Society, the \"Bacu'sua\". Crows believe that tobacco was the first plant to grow on earth, the seed of which was created when Morning Star transformed himself from a human to the tobacco plant. According to Crow lore tobacco was discovered by Chief No Vitals at Devils Lake in eastern North Dakota, having been instructed to seek the plant by God, the worship of which would help Crows honour God. Because of this tobacco is perceived as being fundamental to the welfare of the tribe and has been describe by Crows themselves as their 'means of living.' As the plant is especially revered, the Tobacco Society ensures that all the rites and rituals are performed correctly, cultivating it so that the tribe may be successful. When the sacred plant is smoked it is believed that the smoke aids in carrying prayers to God.\n\nFor those Crow who consider smoking especially holy there is the Sacred Pipe Society. In this society smoking is performed daily allowing is members to become closer to God. Once the pipe is lit the stem is pointed above as an offering to God, then down to Mother Earth, and finally in all four of the directions of the wind. When the prayers are over the pipe is returned to its special place in the tipi. Thomas Yellow was a proponent of this method of honouring God as he believed it was a way praying as part of a Crow's daily life, which he consider especially important if God is to be properly respected. Yellowtail used Black Elk's description of the sacred pipe to demonstrate what he believed to be the importance of scared pipe to Crows. \"With this sacred pipe you will walk upon the Earth; for the Earth is your Grandmother and Mother, and she is sacred. Every step that has been taken upon Her should be as a prayer. The bowl of this pipe is of red stone; it is the Earth… The stem of this pipe is of wood, and this represents all that grows upon Earth… all things of the universe are joined to you who smokes the pipe – all send their voices to \"Wakan-Tanka\", the Great Spirit. When you pray with this pipe, you pray for and with everything.\"\n\nToday Crow religion includes more than traditional Crow beliefs. Over the past 100 years, several Christian sects have established themselves amongst the Crow people. The origins of Christianity among the Crows can be traced to the reservation era, when the Crow were confined to a relatively small tract and carefully supervised by white missionaries and government agents. The first and initially most successful Christian denomination were Catholic Jesuits, who established the St. Xavier mission in the Bighorn Valley in 1887 under the leadership of Pierpaolo Prando, after the Catholics had itinerantly preached to the Crow for seven years. Prando was respected by Crows for his determination to learn their language, which allowed him to have conversations with them and enabled him to translate sermons into Crow so that they could understand the Christian God. In October 1888 the Jesuits consolidated their mission with the building of a school, which further brought Crows round to their denomination. Key to the Catholics success was their ability to deal with Crows on their own terms, that the missionaries respected traditional Crow beliefs, even allowing Crow converts to make Christian \"Xapáaliia\".\n\nThe Protestants were in the beginning less successful in converting Crows to Christianity. Although supported by the Indian Office in the belief that Protestantism would 'elevate' Crows, the first Unitarian mission established at the Little Bighorn in 1886 by Henry F. Bond failed to win support from the Crow community. Bond practiced a strict form of Protestantism, and therefore refused to acknowledge traditional Crow beliefs and culture, thereby alienating the tribe. The America Missionary Association's mission established in 1895 under James Gregor Burgess also suffered a similar fate. Success came in 1903 however when a Baptist mission was built at Lodge Grass, and a school constructed in 1904 under the leadership of Rev. William A. Petzoldt. This school proved especially popular as it was located in the heart of the Crow community, enabling students to study but stay at home, something which the far away boarding schools of the other Christian missions did not allow. This mission at Lodge Grass proved so successful that the Jesuits, weaken by the withdraw of Indian Office funding to their mission in 1895, established a school there too.\n\nAlthough these Christian groups met success in converting Crows they found it far harder to get their converts to worship the Christian God exclusively. This resistance was because of the Crow belief system, that Christianity was considered one of many ways to establish a relationship with God, allowing traditional Crow beliefs to coexist with Christian practices. This Crow reluctance was made all the more frustrating for the Christian missionaries with a Crow cultural and religious revival at the turn of the century, pushing what they saw as 'primitive' religion to the fore. The only successful Christians sect to get Crows to worship only God was Evangelicalism, which in the 1980s experienced a religious boom, establishing churches in districts throughout the reservation. Members of these churches rejected any form of traditional Crow religion, however this was the exception to the rule.\n\nPart of a wider spiritual reawakening was the growth of the peyote religion which reached the Crow reservation in 1910. Peyote ceremonies involve the consumption of the dried tips of the peyote Cactus, native to northern Mexico and the far south of the USA. Once eaten the peyote creates feelings of euphoria, visual distortions and a sense of timelessness. The use of peyote in ceremonies originates in pre-Columbian Mexico, with Seventeenth Century accounts by Catholic missionaries recording its use in all night ceremonies by the native peoples of that region. Traditionally peyote is taken for many reasons, some being the desire for longevity and good health, to purify the body and soul, as well as to bring good luck and protection from harm. Although still debated by academics it is believed that peyote ceremonies were brought to the US by the nomadic Apache and Comanche Native Americans who would often travel south of the border to raid and graze their horses. It was the concentration of these native peoples into the reservations of Oklahoma that allowed this indigenous practice to endure and grow. For the first time many tribes were living in proximity, able to communicate with each other as they were forced to learn English to deal with the Indian Office. The US government then further helped peyote rituals by sending Native Americans to boarding schools. The schools were a melting pot of Native tribes, with students sharing their knowledge of the peyote ceremonies. These youths would then go on to be educated and influential members of their tribes, putting them in positions that would allow them to promulgate the use of peyote in their communities. The use of peyote spread so rapidly on the reservations of Oklahoma because it was an element of indigenous culture that had not yet been destroyed by whites, providing Native Americans with an invaluable link with their past.\n\nIn 1918 peyote practitioners, facing a government crackdown, organised themselves into the Native American Church, hoping that as a formal organisation the US would be forced to recognize peyote as a legitimate religion. In the Church, members consume peyote and then sing and pray to God throughout the night. The Comanche chief Quanah Parker commented on the difference between the Native American Church and mainstream Christianity, remarking that, \"The White man goes into his church house and talks \"about\" Jesus, but the Indian goes into his tipi and talks \"to\" Jesus.\"\n\nThe Indian Office, believing peyote to be addictive and harmful to 'civilisation', banned the plant's sale in Montana in 1923. When it was found that Crows were driving to Wyoming to get the cactus, a ban on peyote was enacted there in 1929. However, due the campaigning of Bird Above, who showed that peyote fostered virtue by encouraging monogamy, hard work and temperance, at a time when tests showed the plant not to be addictive, had the ban repealed. The peyote religion proved popular, with despairing missionaries commenting in the 1930s that most of their members would attend Christian sermons and yet practice peyote beliefs.[64] At the turn of the millennium it is believed that around one hundred peyote ceremonies are performed on the Crow reservation each year. Other Native-Christian religions are practiced among the Crow, including a Native form of Pentecostalism which was initially introduced on the reservation by Crow believers in the 1920s, but today has many adherents.\n\nThe medicine people of the tribe are known as Akbaalia (\"healer\").\n\nThe Mannegishi, also called little people, are bald humanoids with large bulky, pretty eyes and tiny, tan bodies. They were tricksters and may be similar to fairies.\n"}
{"id": "2033449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2033449", "title": "Detchana Puthumai", "text": "Detchana Puthumai\n\nThe Detchana Puthumai tells us the situations of the South Land or Detchanam the center of Origin of Human Life according to Akilattirattu Ammanai the religious book of Ayyavazhi.\n\nIn Tamil, a South Indian ancient language, \"Puthumai\" means Miracle. It also means Newness. \"Detchana\" stands for \"of the South\"\n"}
{"id": "8908182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8908182", "title": "Faderhuset", "text": "Faderhuset\n\nFaderhuset (the Father's House) was a Danish evangelical Christian free church based in the Copenhagen capital region. Faderhuset was best known for acquiring the ownership of the building in central Copenhagen known as \"Ungdomshuset\", a building also claimed by young people from the Danish left-wing movement. Ungdomshuset figured prominently in world news the first week of March 2007 as riots broke out between the youth squatting in Ungdomshuset and the local police.\n\nFaderhuset was founded in 1990 by the married couple Knut and Ruth Evensen who were involved in its leadership until the church closed down on January 1, 2014. Both have been involved in Christian movements since the 1970s. They started their own religious community in the beginning of the 80s in the Nørrebro district of Copenhagen. As of January 2007 the church had 120 members and was an approved religious community by the Danish state.\n\nThe group had close ties to a Christian primary school known as Samuelsskolen, which was closed by the Danish Ministry of Education because they were concerned with some of the practices at the school. Samuelsskolen used Accelerated Christian Education material. This is a curriculum developed in the United States by evangelicals which teaches that the Christian Bible is the source of truth and that evolution undermines the notion of sin and the need for Christ. However, the ministry had other reasons to close Samuelsskolen, and have allowed other Christian schools to continue using this material .\n\nOn 7 July 2007, Ruth Evensen started the Freedom Party ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5059796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5059796", "title": "Family tree of the Babylonian gods", "text": "Family tree of the Babylonian gods\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11522554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11522554", "title": "Ha-Melitz", "text": "Ha-Melitz\n\nHa-Melitz or HaMelitz was the first Hebrew newspaper in the Russian Empire. It was founded by Alexander Zederbaum in Odessa in 1860.\n\n\"Ha-Melitz\" first appeared as a weekly, and it began to appear daily in 1886. From 1871, it was published in Saint Petersburg. Publication was suspended several times for lack of support or by order of the authorities. In 1893, Leon Rabinowitz succeeded Zederbaum as the editor.\n\n\"Ha-Melitz\" was a representative of the progressive or \"haskalah\" movement, and even so severe a critic as Abraham Kovner admitted that it had been \"more useful to the Jews than have the other Hebrew newspapers\" (\"Ḥeḳer Dabar,\" p. 52 ff., Warsaw, 1866). While it was not so literary or scientific as some of its contemporaries, \"Ha-Melitz\" usually had more news and debates of interest, and was consequently more popular.\n\nJ. A. Goldenblum was for many years associated with Zederbaum in its publication. A. S. Friedberg and Judah Leib Gordon were the best known of its associate editors. Almost every prominent Hebrew writer of its times contributed to it.\n\nSeveral collections of literary and scientific articles appeared as supplements to \"Ha-Melitz\" in Zederbaum's time: \"Ḳohelet\" (Saint Petersburg, 1881), \"Migdonot\" (1883), \"Melitẓ Aḥad Minni Elef\" (on the occasion of the appearance of No. 1,000; Saint Petersburg, 1884), \"Leḳeṭ Amarim\" (1889), and \"Arba'ah Ma'amarim\" (1893). Among similar publications issued by Zederbaum's successor were \"Ha-Yeḳev\" (Saint Petersburg, 1894), \"Ha-Osem\" and \"Ha-Gat\" (1897), and \"Ha-Gan\" (1899).\n\n\"Ha-Melitz\" was intermittently published until 1903.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24679763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24679763", "title": "Hieromenia", "text": "Hieromenia\n\nHieromenia (sacred month's time), was the time of the month at which the sacred festivals of the Greeks began, and in consequence of which the whole month received the name of \" \" (sacred month). It was a part of the international law of Greece that all hostilities should cease for the time between states who took part in these festivals, so that the inhabitants of the different states might go and return in safety. The Hieromeniae of the four great national festivals were the most important: they were proclaimed by heralds (spondophoroi or Theoroi), who visited the different states of Greece for the purpose. The suspension of hostilities was called (\"Ekecheiria\", Truce)\n\nIn 420 BC the Spartans were excluded from the Olympics, after they had failed to pay a fine imposed on them, when they invaded Lepreum in Elis. Spartans protested in vain that the hieromenia and ekecheiria had not been declared by heralds on them.(Thuc.5.49-55)\n\n(Pindar. Isthm. ii. 23 ; Strabo. viii. p. 343 ; Krause, Olympia, p. 40, &c.)\n"}
{"id": "201363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201363", "title": "Historical Vedic religion", "text": "Historical Vedic religion\n\nThe historical Vedic religion (also known as Vedism, Brahmanism, Vedic Brahmanism, and ancient Hinduism) refers to the religious ideas and practices among Indo-Aryan-speaking peoples of ancient India after about 1500 BCE. These ideas and practices are found in the Vedic texts, and they were one of the major influences that shaped contemporary Hinduism. According to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", in the Hindu tradition and particularly in India, the Vedic religion is considered to be a part of Hinduism.\n\nAccording to Heinrich von Stietencron, in the 19th century western publications, the Vedic religion was believed to be different from and unrelated to Hinduism. The Hindu religion was thought to be linked to the Hindu epics and the Puranas through sects based on Purohita, Tantras and \"Bhakti\". In the 20th-century, a better understanding of the Vedic religion, its shared heritage and theology with contemporary Hinduism, has led scholars to gradually encompass Brahmanism and the Vedic religion into \"Hinduism\". The Hindu reform movements and the Neo-Vedanta emphasized the Vedic heritage and \"ancient Hinduism\", and this term has been co-opted by some Hindus. Vedic religion is now generally accepted to be a predecessor of Hinduism, but they are not the same because the textual evidence suggests significant differences between the two.\n\nThe Vedic religion is described in the Vedas and associated voluminous Vedic literature preserved into the modern times by the different priestly schools. The Vedic religion texts are cerebral, orderly and intellectual, but it is unclear if the theory in diverse Vedic texts actually reflect the folk practices, iconography and other practical aspects of the Vedic religion. The evidence suggests that the Vedic religion evolved in \"two superficially contradictory directions\", state Jamison and Witzel. One part evolved into ever more \"elaborate, expensive, and specialized system of rituals\", while another part questioned all of it and emphasized \"abstraction and internalization of the principles underlying ritual and cosmic speculation\" within oneself. Both of these traditions impacted Indic religions such as Buddhism and Jainism, and in particular Hinduism. The complex Vedic rituals of Śrauta continue to be practiced in coastal Andhra.\n\nSome scholars consider the Vedic religion to have been a composite of the religions of the Indo-Aryans, \"a syncretic mixture of old Central Asian, new Indo-European elements\", which borrowed \"distinctive religious beliefs and practices\" from the Bactria–Margiana culture, and the remnants of the Harappan culture of the Indus Valley.\n\nThe term Brahmanism is related to the metaphysical concept of Brahman that developed during the Vedic era. The concept of Brahman is posited as that which existed before the creation of the universe, which constitutes all of existence thereafter, and into which the universe will dissolve into, followed by similar endless creation-maintenance-destruction cycles.\n\nAccording to Indologist Jan Heesterman, the terms Vedism and Brahmanism are \"somewhat imprecise terms\". They refer to ancient forms of Hinduism based on the ideologies found in its early literary corpus. Vedism refers to the oldest version, states Heesterman, and it was older than Brahmanism. Vedism refers to the religious ideas of Indo-Europeans who migrated into the Indus River valley region of the subcontinent, whose religion relied on the Vedic corpus including the early Upanishads. Brahmanism, according to Heesterman, refers to the religion that had expanded to a region stretching from the northwest subcontinent to the Ganges valley. Brahmanism included the Vedic corpus and non-Vedic literature such as the \"Dharmasutras\" and \"Dharmasastras\", and was the version of ancient Hinduism that gave prominence to the priestly (Brahmin) class of the society. According to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", Brahmanism refers to both the predominant position of the priests (Brahmans) and the importance given to Absolute reality (Brahman) speculations in the early Upanishads, as these terms are etymologically linked.\n\nThe word Brahmanism was coined by Gonçalo Fernandes Trancoso (1520-1596) in the 16th century.\n\nThe Vedic religion was probably the religion of the Vedic Indo-Aryans, and existed in northern India from c. 1750–500 BCE. The Indo-Aryans were a branch of the Indo-European language family, which originated in the Sintashta culture and further developed into the Andronovo culture, which in turn developed out of the Kurgan culture of the Central Asian steppes. The commonly proposed period of earlier Vedic age is dated back to 2nd millennium BCE.\n\nThe Vedic beliefs and practices of the pre-classical era has been proposed to be closely related to the hypothesised Proto-Indo-European religion, and shows relations with rituals from the Andronovo culture, from which the Indo-Aryan people descended. According to Anthony, the Old Indic religion probably emerged among Indo-European immigrants in the contact zone between the Zeravshan River (present-day Uzbekistan) and (present-day) Iran. It was \"a syncretic mixture of old Central Asian and new Indo-European elements\" which borrowed \"distinctive religious beliefs and practices\" from the Bactria–Margiana Culture (BMAC). This syncretic influence is supported by at least 383 non-Indo-European words that were borrowed from this culture, including the god Indra and the ritual drink Soma. According to Anthony,\nThe oldest inscriptions in Old Indic, the language of the \"Rig Veda\", are found not in northwestern India and Pakistan, but in northern Syria, the location of the Mitanni kingdom. The Mitanni kings took Old Indic throne names, and Old Indic technical terms were used for horse-riding and chariot-driving. The Old Indic term r'ta, meaning \"cosmic order and truth\", the central concept of the \"Rig Veda\", was also employed in the Mitanni kingdom. Old Indic gods, including Indra, were also known in the Mitanni kingdom.\n\nThe Vedic religion of the later Vedic period was consolidated in the Kuru Kingdom, and co-existed with local religions, such as the Yaksha cults, and was itself the product of \"a composite of the Indo-Aryan and Harappan cultures and civilizations\". David Gordon White cites three other mainstream scholars who \"have emphatically demonstrated\" that Vedic religion is partially derived from the Indus Valley Civilization. The religion of the Indo-Aryans was further developed when they migrated into the Ganges Plain after c. 1100 BCE and became settled farmers, further syncretising with the native cultures of northern India.\n\nTexts dating to the Vedic period, composed in Vedic Sanskrit, are mainly the four Vedic Samhitas, but the Brahmanas, Aranyakas and some of the older Upanishads (Bṛhadāraṇyaka, Chāndogya, Jaiminiya Upanishad Brahmana) are also placed in this period. The Vedas record the liturgy connected with the rituals and sacrifices. These texts are also considered as a part of the scripture of contemporary Hinduism.\n\nSpecific rituals and sacrifices of the Vedic religion include, among others:\n\nThe Hindu rites of cremation are seen since the Rigvedic period; while they are attested from early times in the Cemetery H culture, there is a late Rigvedic reference invoking forefathers \"both cremated (\"agnidagdhá-\") and uncremated (\"ánagnidagdha-\")\".(RV 10.15.14)\n\nThough a large number of names for devas occur in the Rigveda, only 33 devas are counted, eleven each of earth, space and heaven. The Vedic pantheon knows two classes, Devas and Asuras. The Devas (Mitra, Varuna, Aryaman, Bhaga, Amsa, etc.) are deities of cosmic and social order, from the universe and kingdoms down to the individual. The Rigveda is a collection of hymns to various deities, most notably heroic Indra, Agni the sacrificial fire and messenger of the gods, and Soma, the deified sacred drink of the Indo-Iranians. Also prominent is Varuna (often paired with Mitra) and the group of \"All-gods\", the Vishvadevas.\n\nIn the Hindu tradition, the revered sages of this era were Yajnavalkya, Atharvan, Atri, Bharadvaja, Gautama Maharishi, Jamadagni, Kashyapa, Vasistha, Bhrigu, Kutsa, Pulastya, Kratu, Pulaha, Vishwamitra Narayana, Kanva, Rishabha, Vamadeva, and Angiras.\n\nEthics in the Vedas are based on the concepts of \"satya\" and \"ṛta\". \"Satya\" is the principle of integration rooted in the Absolute. Panikkar remarks:\nThe term is also found in the Proto-Indo-Iranian religion, the religion of the Indo-Iranian peoples. The term \"dharma\" was already used in Brahmanical thought, where it was conceived as an aspect of \"ṛta\".\n\nThe Vedic period is held to have ended around 500 BCE. The period between 800 BCE and 200 BCE is the formative period for later Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism. According to Michaels, the period between 500 BCE and 200 BCE is a time of \"ascetic reformism\". According to Michaels, the period between 200 BCE and 1100 CE is the time of \"classical Hinduism\", since there is \"a turning point between the Vedic religion and Hindu religions\". Muesse discerns a longer period of change, namely between 800 BCE and 200 BCE, which he calls the \"Classical Period\", when \"traditional religious practices and beliefs were reassessed. The brahmins and the rituals they performed no longer enjoyed the same prestige they had in the Vedic period\".\n\nAccording to Muesse, some of the fundamental concepts of Hinduism, namely karma, reincarnation and \"personal enlightenment and transformation\", which did not exist in the Vedic religion, developed between 800 BCE and 200 BCE:\nSome scholars consider the term Brahmanism as synonymous with Hinduism and use it interchangeably. Others consider them different, and that the transition from ancient Brahmanism into schools of Hinduism that emerged later as a form of evolution, one that preserved many of the central ideas and theosophy in the Vedas, and synergistically integrated new ideas. Of the major traditions that emerged from Brahmanism are the six \"darshanas\", particular the Vedanta, Samkhya and Yoga schools of Hinduism.\n\nVedic religion was followed by Upanishads which gradually evolved into Vedanta, which is regarded by some as the primary institution of Hinduism. Vedanta considers itself \"the purpose or goal [end] of the Vedas.\" There are some conservative schools which continue portions of the historical Vedic religion largely unchanged (see Śrauta, Nambudiri).\n\nOf the continuation of the Vedic tradition in a newer sense, Jeaneane D. Fowler writes the following:\n\nAccording to German Professor Axel Michaels, the Vedic gods declined but did not disappear, and local cults were assimilated into the Vedic-brahmanic pantheon, which changed into the Hindu pantheon. Deities such as Shiva and Vishnu became more prominent and gave rise to Shaivism and Vaishnavism.\n\nThe various Hindu schools and traditions give various interpretations of the Vedic hymns.\n\nMīmāṃsā philosophers argue that there was no need to postulate a maker for the world, just as there was no need for an author to compose the Vedas or a god to validate the rituals. Mīmāṃsā argues that the gods named in the Vedas have no existence apart from the \"mantras\" that speak their names. To that regard, the power of the mantras is what is seen as the power of gods.\n\nAdi Shankara, an 8th-century CE philosopher who unified and established the main currents of thought in Hinduism, interpreted Vedas as being nondualist or monist. However, the Arya Samaj New religious movement holds the view that the Vedic mantras tend to monotheism. Even the earlier Mandalas of Rig Veda (books 1 and 9) contains hymns which are thought to resemble monotheism. Often quoted isolated pada 1.164.46 of the Rig Veda states (trans. Griffith):\nMoreover, the verses of 10.129 and 10.130, deal with the one being (Ékam sát). The verse 10.129.7 further confirms this (trans. Griffith):\n\nThe non-Vedic śramaṇa traditions existed alongside Brahmanism. These were not direct outgrowths of Vedism, but movements with mutual influences with Brahmanical traditions, reflecting \"the cosmology and anthropology of a much older, pre-Aryan upper class of northeastern India\". Jainism and Buddhism evolved out of the Shramana tradition.\n\nThere are Jaina references to 22 prehistoric tirthankaras. In this view, Jainism peaked at the time of Mahavira (traditionally put in the 6th Century BCE). Buddhism, traditionally put from c. 500 BCE, declined in India over the 5th to 12th centuries in favor of Puranic Hinduism and Islam.\n\n"}
{"id": "7102335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7102335", "title": "Islam in Liberia", "text": "Islam in Liberia\n\nIslam in Liberia is practiced by an estimated 12.2% of the population. The vast majority of Liberian Muslims are Malikite Sunni, with sizeable Shia and Ahmadiyya minorities. The primary Muslim ethnic groups are the Vai and Mandingo but also Gbandi, Kpelle and other ethnic groups. Historically, Liberian Muslims have followed a relaxed and liberal form of Islam that is heavily influenced by indigenous religions that were integrated into Islam when it came to Liberia in the 16th century with the collapse of the Songhai Empire in Mali. Islamic religious practices vary in cities and towns across the country. Younger Liberian Muslims, particularly in the cities along the coast, tend to be more secular but still practice Islam in everyday life. In rural areas, Liberian Muslims are more conservative in dressing modestly, performing prayers and attending religious studies. The practice of Islam in Liberia has been compared to Islam common in Senegal and Gambia, with strong orientation toward Sufism. The major Islamic holidays, Eid el Fitr, Ramadan and Eid al Adha, called Tabaski Day, are celebrated annually in Liberia. People have begun to go on Hajj to Mecca in recent years. Joint English-Arabic language, Quranic, and Muslim universities and Islamic studies schools have opened and been rebuilt in the capital Monrovia, rural towns and other cities. Islam appears to be experiencing revival alongside Christianity in the country as a result of the Liberian Civil War. America-Liberian Methodists, the first Christians in Liberia, arrived on January 7, 1822.\n\nPresident Charles Taylor promulgated Islam for political reasons. Taylor, an ally of Libyan leader Muammar al-Gaddafi, trained in Libya before returning to Liberia. Taylor's government sent 220 Muslims to Mecca to do Hajj in 2001 and gave the Liberia Muslim's council a prominent building in Monrovia and the designation of two hours of national broadcasting weekly for Islam-related programming.\n\nA consequence of the civil war in Liberia was destruction of religious buildings, schools and places of worship across the country. In both urban and rural areas, government and opposition rebel forces destroyed numerous mosques belonging to Liberian Muslims from what the government considered enemy ethnic groups. Several massacres were also committed near mosques and schools. One of the most well known, barbaric and gruesome was the Bakerdu Massacre in the mainly Mandingo/Muslim Quardu Gboni District Lofa County on July 12, 1990. Over 400 civilians were killed (some by being burned alive) by Charles Taylor's National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL). Destroyed buildings still stand on uneven foundations, raddled with bullet holes, demolished walls or simply blasted to skeletal buildings. Such destruction not only led to many faithful followers fleeing their hometowns, cities and villages for refugee camps in Sierra Leone, Ghana and other neighboring countries but also destroyed Islamic architecture that represented the blend between traditional Liberian, West African and Arab architectural design and influences. In recent years, diaspora Liberians abroad who practice Islam and Liberians in Liberia have participated in joint projects to rebuild and finance the reconstruction of mosques in many towns in the countryside.\n\nCountries such as Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, etc. have created Diplomatic relations with Liberia. Islamic organizations provide help to Liberian Muslims wanting to go on Hajj to Mecca. Rev. Dr. Laurence Konmla Bropleh Esq., Liberia's Information Minister and a reverend, attended as a guest speaker. Minister Bropleh called on the nation's legislature to designate non-Christian holidays as national holidays, specifically Hajj. He also suggested establishing a religious advisory board, representing all of the major religions practiced in Liberia, to advise the President. Methodist leaders condemned Bropleh's comments and accused him of fueling inter-religious tension.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4700232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4700232", "title": "James Whale (radio)", "text": "James Whale (radio)\n\nMichael James Whale (born 13 May 1951), known professionally as James Whale, is an English radio personality, television presenter, podcast host and author. He gained initial prominence in the 1980s as the host of \"The James Whale Radio Show\" on Radio Aire in Leeds, which was simulcast on national television. From 1995 to 2008, Whale hosted a night time radio show on talkSPORT, followed by stints on LBC 97.3 and various BBC radio stations.\n\nWhale is the current host of his podcast \"The James Whale Show\" and a night time radio show on talkRADIO.\n\nMichael James Whale was born on 13 May 1951 in Ewell, Surrey into \"an ordinary middle class family\". His English father David worked in the family business S&R Whale, which made dresses, aprons and overalls in a factory in Brixton, London. His Welsh mother Anne (\"née\" Price) was a professional ballet dancer. His parents later owned The Famous Green Man pub in Ewell. Whale has a younger brother, Keith. Whale did not enjoy his school life. After failing his eleven-plus exam, he attended Linton's Lane Secondary Modern School and Longmead County Secondary Boys School, both in Epsom.\n\nFrom fourteen to sixteen, Whale took up archery and became a Surrey junior champion. He relocated to the King's Cross area of London where his parents ran a pub. He wanted to become an actor, but his mother advised him to \"get a proper job\". Among Whale's first jobs was as a trainee buyer for Harrods. In this job he came into contact with a DJ which influenced him to become one soon after, citing Tony Blackburn, Johnnie Walker and Kid Jensen as among his favourites. After learning that Watneys was to open a chain of discos, Whale took their DJ training course and landed his first gig at The Bird's Nest in Muswell Hill, north London. He found the experience \"dull\", but realised he had an ability to introduce records and worked at a Watney's venue in Sweden for several months. Upon returning home Whale resumed DJ work, took acting lessons and worked as a rep, but earned little money.\n\nWhale began his broadcasting career in 1970 following a visit to a Topshop store on Regent Street, London. He spoke to manager Ralph Halpern who initially declined to hire a DJ for the store, after which he worked as an assistant stage manager at a theatre in Oxford. Whale was soon invited back to Topshop and accepted work as one of the launch DJs of Radio Topshop, the in-house radio station. In 1974, he became the host of an evening talk radio show at Metro Radio, serving northeast England from studios in Newcastle. He was the first presenter of the \"Nightowls\" program. During this time, Whale took up additional work as a voice over artist and acting roles in \"Doctor Who\" and \"Z-Cars\". In 1980, he moved to Radio Derby to host a morning phone-in, working with Terry Christian who later became a colleague at talkSPORT.\n\nIn 1982, Whale joined Radio Aire in Leeds to host the night talk show; by 1987 he moved to the morning slot before returning to evenings. In 1987, he released two singles: \"The Whaley Rap\"/\"I Hear James (On the Radio)\" and \"Wrap it Up for Xmas\". By late 1987, the radio show was simulcast on Red Rose Radio from Preston. In 1989, Whale's third single, \"Bimbo\", entered the UK top 100 singles chart. An edited version of the B-side, \"A Big Big Egg\", was the closing theme for his TV show.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Whale became influenced by American radio hosts, including \"shock jock\" Howard Stern, and changed his style, having become tired of the \"lovely phone-ins\" that he had been accustomed to. Commencing on the night of Friday 18 November 1988, Whale's radio show at Radio Aire was simulcast with Yorkshire Television and was titled \"The James Whale Radio Show\", featuring live studio guests, music and listener phone calls. The show became a ratings success, and after several months it started to air nationally on ITV. Conservative MP Jerry Hayes had a regular slot on the show and Steve Coogan would also make a regular appearance. By September 1989, the show attracted over one million viewers. It cost the television station £15,000 to run each hour.\n\nIn January 1993, Whale began a new ITV series, \"Whale On\" and in 1994 he presented a weekend afternoon show on LBC in London. He also presented \"The Blue Whale\" on Men and Motors.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2008, Whale hosted a talk show on weekday nights on talkSPORT from 10pm to 1am. \"The James Whale Show\" featured as guests celebrities such as Jodie Marsh, David Icke, Nick Pope, Alex Jones, David Shayler, Lembit Öpik, Myleene Klass, Peter Stringfellow and Alistair McGowan. Another regular guest was the psychic Uri Geller. Whale's friend Bernard Manning would often telephone on his way from gigs. On two occasions, Whale and American talk host Tom Leykis co-hosted shows that ran simultaneously as episodes of both their programmes.\n\nWhale participated in a live \"Newsnight\" programme on 26 April 2007 on BBC Two, broadcast simultaneously on talkSPORT, in which he referred to two-week refuse pickup throughout the UK and the 'scandal' of global warming. Whale should have had a live link to the Newsnight studio, but due to a technical failure this was not possible. Whale announced he believed global warming was solely a natural phenomenon. He described recycling as a 'joke' and believed prisoners should sort rubbish and recyclable waste.\n\nIn May 2008, Whale was sacked because he twice called on listeners to vote for Boris Johnson before the London mayoral election in 2008. Ofcom fined Talksport £20,000, saying he had \"seriously breached the due impartiality rules at the time of an election\".\n\nOn 7 May 2008 Whale said he would join Bid TV. He continued to broadcast on JamesWhaleRadio.co.uk. On 20 May 2008, Whale began a four-hour weekly evening phone-in on Internet radio station Play Radio UK, however, on 2 September 2008 he said on air he was leaving Play Radio for book promotion and TV work. He said he would continue his blog.\n\nAfter standing in for Clive Bull on LBC 97.3 for six days in August 2008, Whale covered for Nick Abbot for two weeks from 29 September 2008 on LBC. In November the same year, he began presenting the drivetime show on LBC between 4pm and 7pm every weekday. In March 2013, it was announced that existing presenter Iain Dale would replace him in this time slot as Whale's contract was not renewed.\n\nAfter leaving LBC 97.3 Whale presented shows at BBC Radio Berkshire, BBC Three Counties Radio, BBC WM, occasionally BBC Radio Kent and a new online format of his hit 1989 TV show, \"Whales Weekly\".\n\nIn September 2013, Whale launched his weekly podcast, \"The James Whale Radio Show\", which was produced by Rob Oldfield. The podcast has since run for over 240 original episodes. He also hosted the first season of the show \"The Book Show\", along with producer and co-host Paul Andrews, which was broadcast on the Sky satellite channel \"Information.TV\" from 2013 to 2014.\n\nOn 13 December 2013, Whale announced that he would be the new permanent presenter of the BBC Essex breakfast programme. He presented his last show on the station on 23 September 2016. He also hosted \"Something for the Weekend\" on BBC Radio Kent Saturday mornings from 10am until 2pm.\n\nOn 28 July 2016, Whale entered the \"Celebrity Big Brother\" house to compete as a housemate in its eighteenth series. He was the sixth to be evicted, coming ninth overall.\n\nWhale began covering shows on talkRADIO in October 2016 and he started presenting the Monday to Thursday evening show between 7pm and 10pm from 7 November 2016. This show reunited Whale with former producer Ash. \n\nIn August 2018, Whale was suspended by talkRADIO, pending a full investigation, after an interview with a woman who had been sexually assaulted. talkRADIO subsequently described the interview as having been \"conducted in a manner that did not reflect the values of the station and completely lacked sensitivity\". In a video clip from the interview, Whale was seen laughing when the interviewee described what had happened to her. Whale returned to the air on 13 August.\n\nIn 1970, Whale married Melinda Maxted. They have two sons, James and Peter. In February 2018, Whale announced that Maxted had been diagnosed with stage four lung cancer. She died on 12 May 2018.\n\nIn February 2000, Whale was diagnosed with kidney cancer. He had not experienced any symptoms until he noticed blood in his urine, caused by a large tumour on his left kidney. He underwent an operation from which he had a 50% chance of survival, and chose not to have chemotherapy afterward. In 2006, he launched the James Whale Fund for Kidney Cancer to fund research and raise awareness of the disease. The fund became Kidney Cancer UK in 2016.\n\nWhale has often spoken of his dyslexia and is a patron of the National Literacy Association.\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2366361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2366361", "title": "Jessica Feshbach", "text": "Jessica Feshbach\n\nJessica Feshbach, also known as Jessica Feshbach Rodriguez and Jessica Davis (born December 18, 1975), is an American former official within the Scientology organization. The daughter of an influential family within Scientology which gave millions of dollars to the organization, she attended The Delphian School in Yamhill County, Oregon, which uses techniques developed by the movement's founder, L. Ron Hubbard.\n\nAt age 19, Feshbach joined the Scientology division Sea Org, an elite group described by the organization as occupying \"the most essential and trusted positions in the senior churches in the Scientology hierarchy\". She was characterized in 2005 by MSNBC as a \"Senior Scientologist\", and by Fox News Channel as \"a high-level Scientologist\"; in 2006 MSNBC described her as \"a high-level Scientology practitioner and member of the church's influential Feshbach family\".\n\nFeshbach is most well known for her stint as Tom Cruise's assistant, and for her friendship with Katie Holmes during the couple's engagement. In this role she traveled with Holmes during publicity for the actresses's film roles, sat in on interviews, and responded to questions about Holmes from journalists. Warner Bros. made special accommodations for Feshbach to accompany Holmes during promotion of \"Batman Begins\", and she attended Holmes' wedding to Cruise in Italy in 2006. Feshbach was later a guest of honor at Scientology's Patron Ball, held at the organization's headquarters in Britain. By 2009, Feshbach had become a high-ranking spokesperson for the Scientology organization.\n\nFeshbach now lives with her husband Tommy Davis in Austin, Texas.\n\nBorn on December 18, 1975, Feshbach comes from an influential family within Scientology. She is a devoted member of the organization, and her family, having given millions of dollars to the organization, are one of the most significant donors to Scientology. Her mother is Lucinda Horn Feshbach and her father was Joseph Feshbach, an investor in Palo Alto, California; he was profiled in a 1991 article about Scientology in \"Time magazine\". Feshbach has a twin sister, Melissa, and an older brother Kurt. As of 2005, her aunt was the manager of a Florida-based Scientology center.\n\nAlong with two brothers, Joseph Feshbach worked out of facilities in California and Clearwater, Florida. The Feshbachs are noteworthy for gaining wealth through the process of short selling companies on the stock market. The brothers are all devout adherents to Scientology, and have used Dianetics, a philosophy which serves as the base of Scientology methodology, to aid their trading techniques. One of Feshbach's uncles told the \"St. Petersburg Times\" that a Scientology program titled Super Powers had helped him improve his investing skills. Feshbach's brother Kurt later utilized the same approach to invest successfully.\n\nFeshbach received elementary education from The Delphian School, a private boarding school whose teaching techniques are based on the methodology of L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology. The Delphian School is located in Sheridan, Oregon, and delivers instruction to grades K-8. In 2005, Feshbach began going by the name Rodriguez, her second husband.\n\nIn 1994, Feshbach joined the division of Scientology called the Sea Org, an elite unit within the organization. \"3 News\" characterized the Sea Org as \"Scientology's senior management\". In their book \"Cults and New Religions\", Douglas E. Cowan and David G. Bromley wrote, \"Described by the Church as 'a fraternal religious order,' members of the Sea Org 'occupy the most essential and trusted positions in the senior churches in the Scientology hierarchy'.\" \"Rolling Stone\" notes, \"Sea Org members staff all of the senior ecclesiastic positions in the church hierarchy\". As of 2010, there were 5,000 members in the Sea Org. Feshbach told the Associated Press, \"When you sign up as a Sea Org member, you're signing up as a member of a religious order. You're a volunteer. You sign a contract that says, 'I'm not going to be paid minimum wage and I know that.'\"\n\nAs part of her ascent within the church's hierarchy, Feshbach completed Scientology courses including \"Security Checker Internship,\" \"False Purpose Rundown Auditorship\" and \"Clear Certainty\". In 2005, MSNBC characterized Feshbach as a \"Senior Scientologist\", and Fox News Channel called her \"a high-level Scientologist\" within the organization. In 2006, MSNBC described Feshbach as \"a high-level Scientology practitioner and member of the church's influential Feshbach family\".\n\nFeshbach soon began working as an assistant to Scientologist actor Tom Cruise. In April 2005, she transferred from her Sea Org duties to serve as a personal \"handler\" to his then-fiancee, Katie Holmes. Soon after beginning her relationship with Cruise, Holmes fired her long-time manager and agent, and Feshbach became her new \"best friend\". Feshbach tutored Holmes in Scientology methodologies, traveled with Holmes when the actress was interviewed during publicity events.\n\nIn one cover story for W Magazine, journalist Robert Haskell wrote that Feshbach \"was described to me as Holmes's 'Scientology chaperone' and it was clear that she would be on hand during our interview despite my protests.\" This was in contrast to Holmes's earlier press, which noted approvingly she \"arrives without the ubiquitous PR person in tow.\" Holmes simply characterized Feshbach as her best friend, and Feshbach said the same. During the interview, however, Feshbach intervened multiple times to answer questions posed to Holmes.\n\nFeshbach additionally accompanied Holmes to promote her film \"Batman Begins\". Warner Bros., the studio that distributed the film, released a statement to \"New York Daily News\" that denied reported friction with Feshbach: \"There's no discord between us and Jessica. We, in fact, made Jessica's hotel reservations for her and brought her along on our plane. If she's someone Katie wants to travel with, that's fine. The people who made the tour made every effort to accommodate her. It's a very amicable situation.\" Later that year, along with Cruise and Holmes, Feshbach was a guest of honor at the Patron Ball, a Scientology event held at Saint Hill Manor, the organization's British headquarters. In 2006, Feshbach attended Holmes' wedding to Cruise in Italy.\n\nBy 2009, Feshbach had become a public spokesperson for Scientology; she continued to serve in this capacity in 2010.\n\nFeshbach and Scientology official Tommy Davis held a meeting on February 27, 2009 in Burbank, California with actor Larry Anderson. Anderson, who had previously starred in the Scientology introduction film \"Orientation\", asked Feshbach and Davis to give back money he had donated to the Scientology organization. Anderson recorded the 90-minute discussion and it was made public by the \"St. Petersburg Times\".\n\nIn June 2009, Feshbach commented on the expertise of Scientology leader David Miscavige to the \"St. Petersburg Times\", regarding his experience in the methodology of the organization and his ability to monitor a controversial case involving the death of Scientologist Lisa McPherson. Feshbach asserted, \"He is an expert in every field.\" In July 2010 the Church of Scientology International publicized a \"Scientology Newsroom\" website tailored for members of the media; Feshbach was one of four international representatives for Scientology listed as \"Spokespersons\".\n\nIn 2009, Feshbach married Scientology executive Tommy Davis in a small private ceremony.\n\nFeshbach now goes by the name “Jessica Davis.” She acquired a Texas realtor’s license in July 2013, and worked as an agent at Wilson Goldrick Realtors in Austin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30773820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30773820", "title": "Khalsa Bahadur", "text": "Khalsa Bahadur\n\nKhalsa Bahadur is an epic poem written by Chuhar Singh describing the chivalry and sacrifice of Sikh soldiers at the Battle of Saragarhi. The poem is 55 pages long, written using the \"baint\" verse form, and written in the Punjabi language. It was completed on November 13, 1915 at Ballial in the Patiala district of Punjab (India) using information from Sikh soldiers on leave.\n\nThe poem begins with a supplication to God, the Sikh Gurus and the Sikh holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib. It narrates the raising of the 36th Sikh Regiment and details the Pathan tribes in the Northwest Frontier Province. It then tells the narrative of the Battle of Saragarhi and ends by describing monuments erected in their honor at Saragarhi, Amritsar, and Firozpur.\n\n"}
{"id": "4454466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4454466", "title": "Lasya", "text": "Lasya\n\nThe term Lasya, in the context of Hindu mythology, describes the dance performed by Goddess Parvati as it expresses happiness and is filled with grace and beauty. She is believed to have danced the Lasya in response to the male energy of the cosmic dance of Tandava performed by Lord Shiva. In a literal sense, Lasya means beauty, happiness and grace.\n\nProfessor Inayat Khan in his book \"Munqar Musicar\"(1912) wrote: \"Women and men both perform this dance and there are a number of recognized masters (ustad) of it in India. Lasya is accompanied by two sarangi players and a tabid, and sometimes a manjira (small indian cymbals). It is danced by one woman, or by two together\".\n\nLasya is an element which is graceful, delicate and expresses emotions on a gentle level. It is associated with the dance of women because Parvati, the consort of Lord Shiva taught it to Usha (daughter of Sage Banasura). Then she passed on this art to women. Lasya is mainly of four types: SHRINKALA, LATA, PINDI and BHEDYAKA. \n\nThe Indian classical music terminology talam has been etymologically derived from the union of the dances of both Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati (Tandavam and Lasyam). The expression of happiness and joy in dance is also termed as \"Lasyam\".lt means beauty and a graceful dance\n"}
{"id": "2523646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2523646", "title": "List of apologetic works", "text": "List of apologetic works\n\nThis is a list of books in the field of religious apologetics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5909156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5909156", "title": "Louis Nathaniel de Rothschild", "text": "Louis Nathaniel de Rothschild\n\nLouis Nathaniel de Rothschild () was an Austrian baron from the famous Rothschild family. He was born in Vienna on 5 March 1882 and died of heart failure while swimming in Montego Bay, Jamaica on 15 January 1955.\n\nHe was the son of Albert Salomon Anselm von Rothschild. He owned a spectacular palace in Vienna, the Palais Rothschild, that housed an exquisite art collection and antiques.\n\nAfter the Anschluß of Austria to Nazi Germany in March 1938, he was arrested at the airport at Aspern and taken into custody by the Nazis because he was a distinguished member of the Jewish oligarchy. He was released only after lengthy negotiations between the family and the Nazis and upon payment of $21,000,000, believed to have been the largest ransom payment in history for any individual.\n\nWhile imprisoned he was visited by Heinrich Himmler. Rothschild apparently impressed the SS leader, who subsequently ordered that Rothschild's prison conditions be improved with better furniture and sanitation facilities. Despite appeals from Queen Mary of the United Kingdom and possibly the Duke of Windsor, Rothschild was held in Vienna's Hotel Metropole while the German government attempted to expropriate his business concerns. He was imprisoned at least through July 1938, and his property placed under control of a German \"commissioner\". Felix Somary, in his memoirs, recalls that, soon before the Anschluss, he phoned to the baron repeatedly, in a desperate attempt to convince him to leave Austria. The day before the Anschluss, Louis's brother Alphons and his wife were visiting him in Switzerland, wanting to go back into Austria; he persuaded them to remain there, and to get his children Francesca de Rothschild and Heidi de Rothschild away from Austria to Netherlands.\n\nFinally allowed to leave Austria, Louis survived the Holocaust and Second World War.\n\nAll of the Rothschild possessions were plundered and subsequently \"Aryanised\". The city-palace of the family was destroyed after the war. The baron never received most of his former belongings back, since most of the paintings were taken over by the Austrian state, which did not allow the paintings to leave the country. In 1998, over 200 art works were returned to the Rothschild heirs by the Austrian Government, and were placed at Christie's in London for auction in 1999.\n\nIn 1946 he married the countess Hildegard Johanna von Auersperg (1895–1981) and lived in East Barnard, Vermont (United States) and England. He died childless in 1955.\n\n"}
{"id": "321478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321478", "title": "Madalyn Murray O'Hair", "text": "Madalyn Murray O'Hair\n\nMadalyn Murray O'Hair (\"née\" Mays; April 13, 1919 – September 29, 1995), was an American activist supporting atheism and separation of church and state. In 1963 she founded American Atheists and served as its president to 1986, after which her son Jon Garth Murray succeeded her. She created the first issues of \"American Atheist Magazine\".\n\nO'Hair is best known for the \"Murray v. Curlett\" lawsuit, which challenged the policy of mandatory prayers and Bible reading in Baltimore public schools, in which she named her first son William J. Murray as plaintiff. Consolidated with \"Abington School District v. Schempp\" (1963), it was heard by the United States Supreme Court, which ruled that official Bible-reading in American public schools was unconstitutional. The Supreme Court had prohibited officially sponsored prayer in schools in \" Engel v. Vitale\" (1962) on similar grounds. Through American Atheists, O'Hair filed numerous other suits on issues of separation of church and state.\n\nIn 1995, O'Hair, her second son Jon Garth Murray (known as \"Garth\"), and her adopted daughter Robin Murray O'Hair (daughter of William J. Murray and his high school girlfriend Susan), disappeared from Austin, Texas. Garth Murray withdrew hundreds of thousands of dollars from American Atheists' funds, and there was speculation that the trio had absconded. David Roland Waters, a convicted felon and former employee of American Atheists, was convicted of murdering O'Hair, Jon Garth Murray, and Robin Murray O'Hair. The bodies were not found until Waters led authorities to their burial place following his conviction.\n\nMadalyn Mays was born in the Beechview neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on April 13, 1919, the daughter of Lena Christina (née Scholle) and John Irwin Mays. She had an older brother, John Irwin Jr. (known as \"Irv\"). Their father was of Irish ethnicity and their mother was of German ancestry. At the age of four, Madalyn was baptized into her father's Presbyterian church; her mother was a Lutheran. The family moved to Ohio, and in 1936, Mays graduated from Rossford High School in Rossford.\n\nIn 1941, Mays married John Henry Roths, a steelworker. They separated when they both enlisted for World War II service, he in the United States Marine Corps, and she in the Women's Army Corps. In April 1945, while posted to a cryptography position in Italy, she began a relationship with officer William J. Murray, Jr., a married Roman Catholic. He refused to divorce his wife. Mays divorced Roths and adopted the name Madalyn Murray. She gave birth to her son with officer Murray after returning to Ohio, and named the boy William J. Murray III (nicknamed \"Bill\").\n\nIn 1949, Murray completed a bachelor's degree from Ashland University. She earned a law degree from the South Texas College of Law, but did not pass the bar exam.\n\nShe moved with Bill to Baltimore, Maryland. On November 16, 1954, she gave birth to her second son, Jon Garth Murray, fathered by her boyfriend Michael Fiorillo. Their relationship ended, and it is believed that the boy, known as Garth, never met his father.\n\nIt was rumored that Murray sought to defect to the Soviet Union at their embassy in Paris in 1960, but that the Soviets denied her entry. Murray with her sons returned to Baltimore in 1960 to live with her mother and brother Irv at their house in the Loch Raven neighborhood. In 1960 she filed a lawsuit against the Baltimore Public School System, naming her son William J. Murray III as plaintiff. She said that its practices of mandatory prayer and required reading of the Bible were unconstitutional. The US Supreme Court upheld her position by a ruling in 1963.\n\nBecause of hostility in Baltimore against her family related to this case, Murray left Maryland with her sons in 1963 and moved to Honolulu, Hawaii. She had allegedly assaulted five Baltimore City Police Department officers who tried to retrieve her son Bill's girlfriend Susan from her house; she was a minor and had run away from home. Susan gave birth to Bill's daughter, whom she named Robin. Murray later adopted Robin.\n\nIn 1965, Murray married U.S. Marine Richard O'Hair, and changed her surname. He had belonged to a Communist group in Detroit during the 1940s. During investigations of the 1950s, he gave more than 100 names of other members to the FBI. Later he was investigated for falsely claiming to be an FBI agent. Although the couple separated, they were legally married until his death in 1978.\n\nIn 1960, Murray filed a lawsuit against the Baltimore City Public School System (\"Murray v. Curlett\"), naming her son William as plaintiff. She challenged the city school system's practice of requiring students to participate in Bible readings at the city's public schools. She said her son's refusal to participate had resulted in bullying by classmates and that administrators condoned this behavior. After consolidation with \"Abington School District v. Schempp,\" the lawsuit was heard by the Supreme Court of the United States in 1963. The Court voted 8–1 in Schempp's favor, saying that mandatory public Bible readings by students were unconstitutional. Prayer in schools other than Bible-readings had been ruled as unconstitutional the year before by the Court in \"Engel v. Vitale\" (1962).\n\nO'Hair filed a number of other lawsuits: one was against the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) because of the Apollo 8 Genesis reading. The case was rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court for lack of jurisdiction. The challenge had limited effect.\n\nIn the Apollo 11 mission, NASA officials asked lunar module pilot Buzz Aldrin to refrain from quoting the Bible in broadcasts. He was allowed to conduct the first communion service in space.\n\nO'Hair appeared on \"The Phil Donahue Show\" several times, including the first episode in 1967. Later Donahue said that O'Hair was unpleasant in person and had mocked him off-camera for being a Catholic. She appeared on the show in March 1970 to debate Preacher Bob Harrington, \"The Chaplain of Bourbon Street\". \n\nO'Hair endorsed Jimmy Carter in the 1976 presidential election because of Carter's opposition to mandatory school prayer, his support for sex education in public schools, and his stance on ecological matters.\n\nAfter settling in Austin, Texas, O'Hair founded American Atheists in 1963. It identifies as \"a nationwide movement which defends the civil rights of non-believers, works for the separation of church and state and addresses issues of First Amendment public policy\". She served as the group's first chief executive officer and president until 1986. She was the public voice and face of atheism in the United States during the 1960s and 1970s. Although her son Garth Murray succeeded her officially as president, she retained most of the power and decisionmaking.\n\nIn a 1965 interview with \"Playboy Magazine\", she described religion as \"a crutch\" and an \"irrational reliance on superstitions and supernatural nonsense\". In the same \"Playboy\" interview, O'Hair described numerous alleged incidents of harassment, intimidation, and death threats against her and her family. She read several letters she claimed to have received, including one that read (referring to the conversion of Paul the Apostle on the road to Damascus), \"May Jesus, who you so vigorously deny, change you into a Paul.\" O'Hair told the interviewer, \"Isn't that lovely? Christine Jorgensen had to go to Sweden for an operation, but \"me\" they'll fix with faith — painlessly and for nothing.\" She said that she left Baltimore because of persecution from residents. She had received mail containing photos smeared with feces, her son Jon's pet kitten was killed, and her home was stoned. She said she thought such events were a catalyst for her father's fatal heart attack.\n\nShe filed several lawsuits challenging governmental practices, based on upholding and defining the constitutional separation of church and state. Among these was one against the city of Baltimore's policy of classifying the Catholic Church as a tax-exempt organization in terms of property.\n\nO'Hair founded an atheist radio program, in which she criticized religion and theism. She hosted a television show, \"American Atheist Forum\", which was carried on more than 140 cable television systems.\n\nArrested for disorderly conduct in Austin in 1977, O'Hair continued to be a polarizing figure into the 1980s. She served as \"chief speechwriter\" for Larry Flynt's 1984 presidential campaign. She was regularly invited on to TV talk shows as a guest. Her second son Garth Murray officially succeeded her as president of the American Atheists, but she was said to retain most of the power. Some chapters seceded from the main group at the time. But , American Atheists continued as an active organization with a growing membership.\n\nHer son William J. Murray became a Christian in 1980 and later a Baptist minister, publishing a memoir in 1982 about his spiritual journey. Murray O'Hair commented, \"One could call this a postnatal abortion on the part of a mother, I guess; I repudiate him entirely and completely for now and all times ... he is beyond human forgiveness.\"\n\nIn 1988, O'Hair produced several issues of \"Truth Seeker\" under her masthead as part of an attempt to take over the publication. But the courts ruled against her ownership.\n\nIn the 1990s, American Atheists staff consisted of O'Hair, her son Garth Murray, and Robin Murray O'Hair, her granddaughter and adopted daughter, and a handful of support personnel (Robin was the daughter of William J. Murray and his girlfriend). William was estranged from his mother, brother and daughter. They had not met nor spoken for many years. The trio lived in O'Hair's large home, worked in the same office, and took shared vacations.\n\nO'Hair filed numerous lawsuits in which she argued the separation of church and state had been breached.\n\nDuring an interview with \"Playboy\" in 1965, O'Hair described herself as a \"militant feminist\" and expressed her dissatisfaction with women's inequality in America, stating during the interview:\n\nShe also expressed her discontent with the women's liberation movement.\n\nOn August 27, 1995, O'Hair, her son Garth Murray, and granddaughter Robin Murray O'Hair disappeared from their home and office. A typewritten note was attached to the locked office door, saying \"The Murray O'Hair family has been called out of town on an emergency basis. We do not know how long we will be gone at the time of the writing of this memo.\" When police entered O'Hair's home, it looked as they had left suddenly. The trio said in phone calls that they were on \"business\" in San Antonio, Texas. Garth Murray ordered US$600,000 worth of gold coins from a San Antonio jeweler, but took delivery of only $500,000 worth of coins.\n\nUntil September 27, American Atheists employees received several phone calls from Robin and Jon, but neither explained why they had left or when they would return; employees reported that their voices sounded strained and disturbed. After September 28, no further communication came from any of the three. American Atheists was facing serious financial problems because of the withdrawal of funds, and membership dwindled in the face of an apparent scandal. There was speculation that the trio may have disappeared to conceal assets or avoid creditors.\n\nUltimately, the investigation focused on David Roland Waters, an ex-felon with a violent history, who had worked for American Atheists. He had pleaded guilty earlier that year to stealing $54,000 from the organization. Shortly after his theft was discovered, O'Hair had published an article in the American Atheists newsletter exposing the theft and previous crimes. O'Hair claimed that, at age 17, Waters had killed another teenager. Waters had been sentenced to prison for eight years.\n\nFederal agents for the FBI and the IRS, along with the police, concluded that Waters and his accomplices had kidnapped all three Murray/O'Hair family members, forced them to withdraw the missing funds, gone on several shopping sprees with their money and credit cards, and killed and dismembered all three people. Waters' accomplices were Gary Paul Karr and Danny Fry. A few days after O'Hair and her family were killed, Waters and Karr killed Fry. His body was found on a riverbed with the head and hands missing. It was not identified for three and a half years.\n\nA search warrant was executed for the apartment of Waters and his girlfriend. The search produced various calibers of ammunition. Waters, a convicted felon, was arrested, and the contents of his flat were seized. At the same time, Gary Karr was contacted in Walled Lake, Michigan, and interviewed. Having served the last 30 years in prison for kidnapping a judge's daughter, Karr would not talk. He was read his rights and asked to listen to the information being discussed. Karr decided to talk and implicated Waters in the deaths of Murray and the O'Hairs. Karr signed an affidavit and drew a map so that the police could find the bodies. Karr was arrested for possession of two firearms and taken to jail. He was held in Detroit, awaiting trial. The weapon charge was dismissed, and Karr was transferred to the custody of the United States Marshals in Austin to stand trial for the deaths of the O'Hairs.\n\nAfter a three-week trial, Karr was found guilty of conspiracy to commit extortion, traveling interstate to commit violent acts, money laundering, and interstate transportation of stolen property, all charges related to the O'Hair case. He was acquitted of charges of conspiring to kidnap, because the authorities had not yet located the bodies of the O'Hairs. In August 2000, Karr was sentenced to two life sentences in prison by U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks.\n\nWaters was arrested and prosecuted; he was found guilty of kidnapping, robbery, and homicide in the O'Hair cases, and sentenced to 80 years in prison. He was also ordered to pay back a total of $543,665 to the United Secularists of America and to the estates of Madalyn Murray O'Hair, Jon Garth Murray, and Robin Murray O'Hair. It is unlikely that these debts were paid, because Waters had no ability to earn money while in prison. Waters died of lung cancer on January 27, 2003 at the Federal Medical Center in Butner, North Carolina.\n\nIn January 2001, after his conviction and imprisonment, Waters told the federal agents that the O'Hairs were buried on a Texas ranch, and subsequently led them to the bodies. When law enforcement excavated there, they discovered that the legs of the three people had been cut off with a saw. The remains had such extensive mutilation and decomposition that officials had to identify them through dental records, DNA testing and, in Madalyn O'Hair's case, records of a prosthetic hip from Brackenridge Hospital in Austin (the product number identified her body). The head and hands of Danny Fry were also found at the site.\n\nWaters and his girlfriend had put the gold coins extorted from the O'Hairs in an unsecured storage locker rented by the girlfriend. It had only a cheap Master padlock. Waters had taken some coins and partied for a few days with Gary Karr and his former wife. When he returned to the locker, he discovered that the remaining gold coins (American eagles, Maple Leafs, and Krugerrands) had been stolen. A group of thieves from San Antonio operating in that area had gained keys to the type of lock used by the girlfriend. In the course of their activities, the thieves had come across the locker, used a key, and found a suitcase full of gold coins. They returned to San Antonio, and with the help of friends, converted the gold coins to cash. The friends were taken to Las Vegas for a weekend. All but one coin, given as a pendant gift to an aunt, were spent by these thieves. That last coin was recovered by the FBI after a Memorial Day 1999 public appeal.\n\nDuring the case, Austin reporter Robert Bryce criticized the relative lack of action by the Austin Police Department. He noted the investigation was being led by agents of the Internal Revenue Service, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Dallas County Sheriff's Office.\n\nMurray's 1960 lawsuit against the Baltimore City School System was later consolidated with a similar one from a Pennsylvania, when these reached the US Supreme Court on appeal. The Court ruled in 1963 that the practice of compulsory Bible reading in public schools was unconstitutional. This decision gradually resulted in the end of religious activities sponsored by public schools. Non-religious students were expected to participate in such activities, and state-level policies varied.\n\nIn 2013, the first atheist monument to be erected on American government property was unveiled at the Bradford County Courthouse in Florida, where other residents had installed a monument to religious ideals. It is a 1,500-pound granite bench and plinth inscribed with quotes by O'Hair, Thomas Jefferson, and Benjamin Franklin. The American Atheists said they planned to build 50 more monuments.\n\nPersistent urban myths were told about Murray O'Hair threatening certain TV programs because of so-called religious content. These have been disproved. A 2009 variation of Petition 2493 claims that American Atheists want the \"Removal of Joel Osteen, Joyce Meyer, Charles Stanley, David Jeremiah and other pastors from the air waves\". Purportedly James Dobson asks petitioners to send responses and donations to \"Lisa Norman\". Snopes.com says that it is an urban myth. Dobson denies any involvement.\n\nA 2017 Netflix original movie, \"The Most Hated Woman in America\", is a loose dramatization of O'Hair's life. It focuses on the abductions and killings of O'Hair and two family members in 1995.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57203518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57203518", "title": "Magic sword pendant", "text": "Magic sword pendant\n\nMagic sword pendants are rare and small finds, so people sometimes do not know how to interpret these finds. These finds are usually related to the Sarmatians and the Huns as magic pendants or sword decoration.\n\nMagic sword pendants are small, round, discoid, semi-spherical or nearly spherical objects. They are about 50–70 mm in diameter; sometimes, they are flat on one side. Magic sword pendants are usually made of glass, semi-precious stones (e.g. jade, chalcedony, jet or rock crystal). There are also objects made of amber. Sword pendants were usually located near sword hilts. They may have been anchored or attached to the sword hilt.\n\nThese objects were used from the 2nd century to the 5th century AD, until the so-called Merovingian period, and the area where these artifacts are found stretches from Western and Northern Europe to Western Siberia. Magic sword pendants were probably produced at Roman sites and in the environment of the Sarmatians and the Huns.\n\nExamples of finds from Barbaricum: Tiszalok, Dura-Europos, Vimose, Illerup, Thorsberg.\n\nFrom Poland: Dobrodzień-Rędzina, Żerniki Wielkie, Dobieszewice; the most famous find was uncovered in Jakuszowice in a princely grave.\n\nJakuszowice is a village located in southern Poland about 50 km northeast from Cracow. In 1911 people found a grave of a young man there, which was dated to the 5th century AD. In this grave, the following artifacts were found: a sword, a reflective arch, fittings and a belt buckle, horse harness and circle magic sword pendants made of amber with almandine mounted on top of it and set in gold binding. The buried man could have been a person belonging to the elite, because of rich equipment of the grave. He may have been connected with Huns, which is suggested by a reflective arch motive of gold foil, characteristic of Huns’ graves.\n\n"}
{"id": "685921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=685921", "title": "Medicine Lake Volcano", "text": "Medicine Lake Volcano\n\nMedicine Lake Volcano is a large shield volcano in northeastern California about northeast of Mount Shasta. The volcano is located in a zone of east-west crustal extension east of the main axis of the Cascade Volcanic Arc and the Cascade Range. The thick shield is from east to west and from north to south, and covers more than . The underlying rock has downwarped by under the center of the volcano. The volcano is primarily composed of basalt and basaltic andesite lava flows, and has a caldera at the center.\n\nThe Medicine Lake shield rises about above the Modoc Plateau to an elevation of . Lavas from Medicine Lake Volcano are estimated to be at least in volume, making Medicine Lake the largest volcano by volume in the Cascade Range (Newberry Volcano in Oregon has the second largest volume). Lava Beds National Monument lies on the northeast flank of the volcano.\n\nMedicine Lake Volcano has been active for 500,000 years. The eruptions were gentle rather than explosive like Mount St. Helens, coating the volcano's sides with flow after flow of basaltic lava. Medicine Lake is part of the old caldera, a bowl-shaped depression in the mountain. It is believed that the Medicine Lake volcano is unique, having many small magma chambers rather than one large one.\n\nMedicine Lake is in the caldera of the volcano, which measures . The caldera may have formed by collapse after a large volume of andesite was erupted from vents along the caldera rim. The distribution of late Pleistocene vents, mostly concentrated along the rim, suggests that ring faults already existed when most of the andesite erupted. No single large eruption has been related to caldera formation. The only eruption recognized to have produced ash flow tuff occurred in late Pleistocene time, and this eruption was too small to account for formation of the caldera. Later conclusions were that Medicine Lake caldera formed by collapse in response to repeated extrusions of mostly mafic lava beginning early in the history of the volcano (perhaps in a manner similar to the formation of Kilauea caldera in Hawaii). Several small differentiated magma bodies may have been fed by and interspersed among a plexus of dikes and sills. Late Holocene andesitic to rhyolitic lavas were derived by fractionation, assimilation, and mixing from high alumina basalt parental magma. The small lake from which Medicine Lake volcano derives its name lies within the central caldera.\n\nMedicine Lake Volcano began to grow about one million years ago in Pleistocene time, following the eruption of a large volume of tholeiitic high-alumina basalt. Similar high-alumina basalt has continued to erupt around the volcano throughout its history. Although mafic lavas predominate on the volcano's flanks, all lava compositions from basalt to rhyolite have erupted during Pleistocene time. The lower flanks consist of mostly basaltic and some andesitic lavas. Basalt is mostly absent at higher elevation, where andesite dominates and rhyolite and small volumes of dacite are present. During the past 11,000 years, eruptive activity at Medicine Lake Volcano has been episodic. Eight eruptions produced about of basaltic lava during a time interval of a few hundred years about 10,500 years ago. That eruptive episode was followed by a hiatus that ended with a small andesitic eruption about 4,300 years ago. During the most recent eruptive episode between 3000 and 900 years ago, eight eruptions produced approximately of lava ranging in composition from basalt to rhyolite. Late Holocene lava compositions include basalt and andesite, but silicic lavas dominate.\n\nEruptive activity during Holocene time has included numerous rhyolite and dacite lava flows erupted at high elevations inside and outside the caldera; cinder cones and associated lava flows of basalt and basaltic andesite have resulted from eruptions at vents on the flanks of the shield. Most vents are aligned along zones of crustal weakness that trend northeast to northwest.\n\nThe most recent eruption occurred around 1,000 years ago when rhyolite and dacite erupted at Glass Mountain and associated vents near the caldera's eastern rim. Fitch cites reports that a light ash fall that occurred in 1910 may have come from a small eruption at Glass Mountain. No field evidence has been found to substantiate the 1910 eruption.\n\nGlass Mountain consists of a spectacular, nearly treeless, steep-sided rhyolite and dacite obsidian flow that erupted just outside the eastern caldera rim and flowed down the steep eastern flank of Medicine Lake Volcano. Ten additional small domes of Glass Mountain rhyolite and rhyodacite lava lie on a N25degreesW trend to the north and one to the south. The age of Glass Mountain and its preceding pumice deposits has been a matter of discussion for some time. A radiocarbon dating age of 885±40 years before present (1990) was obtained on a dead incense-cedar tree without limbs or bark that is preserved in the edge of one of the distal tongues of the flow. The dated material consisted of a piece of exterior wood containing about 30 annual growth rings. This age may be too old, because some of the outside of the tree is missing. The tephra deposits that precede the flow and domes may be somewhat older but are constrained to be less than about 1050 years before present (1990) by the Little Glass Mountain and Lassen Peak data.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14706814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14706814", "title": "Melchor Ocampo", "text": "Melchor Ocampo\n\nMelchor Ocampo (5 January 1814, Maravatío, Valladolid, Mexico, New Spain – 3 June 1861, Tepeji del Río, Hidalgo) was a mestizo by birth, a radical liberal Mexican lawyer, scientist, and politician. He was fiercely anticlerical, perhaps an atheist, and his early writings against Roman Catholic Church in Mexico gained him a reputation as an articulate liberal ideologue. Ocampo has been considered the heir to José María Luis Mora, the premier liberal intellectual of the early republic. He served in the administration of Benito Juárez and negotiated a controversial agreement with the United States, the McLane-Ocampo Treaty. His home state was much later renamed Michoacán de Ocampo in his honor.\n\nMelchor Ocampo was perhaps orphaned and left abandoned at the gate of a hacienda of wealthy woman, Doña Francisca Xaviera Tapia, who raised him as her own and bequeathed him her property.\n\nOcampo studied at the Roman Catholic seminary in Morelia, Michoacán, and later law at the Colegio Seminario de México (Universidad Pontificia). He began working in a law office in 1833. For unknown reasons, he left the practice of law and returned to his hacienda, perhaps because of its imminent bankruptcy. In 1840, he traveled to France, where he was influenced by liberal and anticlerical ideas of the Enlightenment and following the French Revolution. He returned after a year to Michoacán to work his lands, practice law, investigate the region's flora and fauna, and study the local indigenous languages. More importantly, he entered politics in Michoacan, in opposition to Antonio López de Santa Anna.\n\nOcampo was elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1842. In 1844, Manuel Gómez Pedraza became president of Mexico and appointed Ocampo Governor of Michoacán. during the U.S. Invasion (1846–48). He was an activist governor, reorganizing the state treasury, building roads, proposing the founding of schools, and improving the conditions of the national guard in Michoacán. During the Mexican–American War he recruited troops without conscription or increased taxes, but solely by persuasion. Ocampo urged that the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo that ended the Mexican–American War be rejected. As governor, Ocampo appointed Santos Degollado the rector of the Colegio de San Nicolás de Hidalgo, where revolutionary Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla had served prior to his exile to the village of Dolores. Degollado later was murdered seeking the murderers of his patron Ocampo.\n\nOcampo's beliefs were fiercely anticlerical and challenged the power of the Roman Catholic Church in Mexico. He viewed the church as sucking wealth from indigenous people with high clerical fees for ecclesiastical services, and impeding progress. He pointed to high clerical fees for ecclesiastical services and the proliferation of fiestas, which encouraged idleness and drunkenness. These provided income for local priests as well as further impoverishing indigenous people who bought candles, incense, and fireworks. Clerical fees for Christian sacraments meant that birth, marriage, and death generated income for priests who charged for baptism, holy matrimony, and burial. A vivid story he related about this practice concerned a peasant who could not afford the burial fees for his son and asked for a free burial. \"The priest refused, contending that 'this was what he lived on.' The poor man had asked, 'Sir, what shall I do with my dead son?' and the priest had answered him, 'Salt him and eat him'.\" The church had the responsibility for education in Mexico and like other aspects of the church's role in Mexico, access was based on the ability to pay. Ocampo advocated free, public, secular education in Mexico. He believed that education had to be grounded on the basic postulates of liberalism, democracy, respect and tolerance for different beliefs, equality before the law, the elimination of privileges, and the supremacy of civil authority. Many of these ideas were later codified in the Reform laws and the liberal Constitution of 1857.\n\nHe began a published polemical debate with a priest or a group of priests in Michoacán about the reform of clerical fees. Historian Enrique Krauze suggests that the priest was probably Clemente de Jesús Mungía, the bishop of Morelia, the state capital. Ocampo was subsequently deposed as governor and was forced to flee the country by President Antonio López de Santa Anna, taking refuge first in Cuba and then in the U.S. city of New Orleans, Louisiana. In New Orleans he met a group of fellow liberal exiles, including Benito Juárez. Ocampo began to publish pamphlets to promote political change in Mexico. He returned to Mexico in 1855 following the successful ouster of Santa Anna under the Plan de Ayutla. The plan had called for the overthrow of Santa Anna and the installation of the liberal general Juan Álvarez as president of Mexico. With Álvarez's victory, Ocampo served briefly in his cabinet as foreign minister, but when Álvarez stepped down and Ignacio Comonfort became president, Ocampo returned to Michoacán. He was then elected to the Constitutional Convention that drafted the liberal Constitution of 1857, which included strong provisions for the separation of Church and State.\n\nDuring Benito Juárez's administration during the civil war between liberals and conservatives, known as the War of the Reform, Ocampo served in various high posts, including Minister of the Interior, with responsibility also for foreign affairs, defense, and the treasury. Ocampo became embroiled in a bitter dispute about the implementation of the Lerdo Law, which called for the sale of property of corporations, meaning the Roman Catholic Church and indigenous communities which was aimed at undermining the economic power of the church and creating a yeoman peasantry of small landowners. Ocampo charged that the law was counterproductive, strengthening the power of the church and preventing the acquisition of land by those of modest means.\n\nThe most controversial act of Ocampo was negotiating the McLane-Ocampo Treaty in 1859, when he served the Liberal government of Benito Juárez. The regime was strapped for cash to pursue the War of the Reform against conservatives. In the port of Veracruz, on 14 December 1859, acting on Juárez's orders, he and U.S. Ambassador Robert Milligan McLane signed the treaty. This controversial treaty would have awarded the United States perpetual transit rights, for its armies and merchandise, through three zones of Mexico's territory: the Isthmus of Tehuantepec; a corridor running from Guaymas, Sonora, to Nogales, Arizona; and a second transoceanic route from Mazatlán, Sinaloa, on the Pacific to Brownsville, Texas, on the Gulf of Mexico. The treaty was aimed at getting U.S. recognition for the Juárez government and gain the regime two million dollars in much needed funding. Ocampo did attach an appendix, attempting to protect Mexican sovereignty. Although presidents Juárez and Buchanan were both in favor of the arrangement, the U.S. Senate rejected it on 31 May 1860 on account of the impending Civil War in the United States. Ocampo traveled to the U.S. to ascertain if that it would support the liberal cause if they were unable to defeat the conservatives on the battlefield. The treaty exacerbated the rancor between Ocampo and Miguel Lerdo de Tejada and Ocampo resigned from Juárez's cabinet in January 1860. Juárez rejected the treaty in November 1860.\n\nWith the defeat of the conservatives in the War of the Reform in 1860, Mexican presidential elections were held. Ocampo might have been a candidate, but backed Juárez against his rival Miguel Lerdo. \"Juárez may have needed the such help, for even though president, he was viewed by many as second rate in comparison to Ocampo and Lerdo.\" By 1861, both Miguel Lerdo and Ocampo were both dead, with Ocampo murdered by conservative guerrillas after he returned to civilian life.\n\nSome months after retiring from public service, Melchor Ocampo was abducted from his hacienda in Michoacán by conservative guerrillas on orders from either Leonardo Márquez or Félix María Zuloaga or both (reports differ). Historian Enrique Krauze gives a vivid account of Ocampo's last days, saying that Ocampo's captors allowed him to write his will, where he recognized his natural daughters and identified their mother, information the children did not know. Ocampo was executed by firing squad on 3 June 1861 at the Hacienda of Tlaltengo, Tepeji del Río, in what is today the state of Hidalgo. After the firing squad, his execution included \"the finishing bullet in the head, [and] they hung the body of Melchor Ocampo from a tree.\" His loyal follower, Santos Degollado, pursued Ocampo's executioners and \"was himself ambushed, captured, and executed by the conservatives. Ocampo's murder was a scandal, and Juárez's government took \"more extreme measures\" to repress the conservatives. The remains of Ocampo are interred in the Rotonda de los Hombres Ilustres in Mexico City.\n\nHe participated in writing new Civil Laws, that in the end would give sense to liberal politics and would end up amending the Constitution from 1857, in order to make civil and political matters independent from ecclesiastic ones. On July 23, 1859, D. Benito Juarez, interim president then, issues, at the Port of Veracruz, the \"Civil Matrimony Law\", which has 31 Articles. In Article 15, as a way of ceremonial formalization, the famous epistle, attributed to Melchor Ocampo, was included; and which reads as follows:\n\nThis is Ocampo's best-known legacy from 1859, which is known as the epistle on marriage, still read out nowadays by judges presiding over civil weddings in many states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1002246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1002246", "title": "Mir (title)", "text": "Mir (title)\n\nMir () (which is derived from the Arabic title \"Emir\" 'general, prince') is a rare ruler's title in princely states and an aristocratic title generally used to refer to a person who is a descendant of a commander in medieval Muslim tradition.\n\nIt was adopted in many languages under Islamic influence, such as Balochi, Ottoman Turkish, Persian, Turkish, Sindhi language, Azerbaijani, Kurdish, Kashmiri language, language and Pashto language meaning leader of a group or tribe.\nAccording to the book Persian Inscriptions on Indian Monuments, \"Mir\" is most probably an Arabized form of \"Pir\". \"Pir\" in Old Persian and Sanskrit means the old, the wise man, the chief and the great leader. Pir is a religious leader' title for Kurdish Alevi and Yarsanism faith meaning old and wise spiritual leader. Amir, meaning \"Lord\" or \"commander-in-chief\", is derived from the Arabic root a-m-r, \"command\".\n\nToday, some Pakistani grandparents call their grandson \"mir\", and some Pakistani babysitters call the child who they look after \"mir\" if the child is a boy.\n\nIn Muslim princely states of British India, few rulers were formally styled \"Mir\", notably in present Pakistan, where only two of the six have actually reached the level of salute state, becoming entitled to a gun salute and the attached form of address \"His Highness\":\n\nThe following all remained non-salute states :\n\n\"Mir\" was also used as an honor rank. (See: Mirza)\nIn Balochistan, \"mir\" is also an honorific title give to The Khan of Kalat and a \"sardar\" son or brother. When a \"mir\" has twelve \"mirs\" under him he becomes a sardar. It is given as well to people in religion. \"Sayyid\" sons or brothers remain as such until they fulfill the complete Islam requirement and hold the title of \"mir\" instead of \"sayyid\".\n\nThe title \"mir\" was also used by members of the chief clans of the Soomro and Talpur tribe before and after they became rulers of Sindh. Today, it is still used by their descendants.\n\nOn the Indian subcontinent, since the Mughal period, various compounds were used in Urdu including:\n\n\nIn the Hindu kingdom of Nepal:\n\nIn the Baloch kingdom of Balochistan :\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, \"mir-i miran\" was used as the Persian equivalent to the Turkish title \"beylerbey\" (\"bey of beys\"), alongside the Arabic equivalent \"amir al-umara\" (\"emir of emirs\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58074739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58074739", "title": "Moxwêra wa Babaso", "text": "Moxwêra wa Babaso\n\nMoxwêra wa Babaso was a newspaper published in Middelburg, Transvaal, South Africa, from 1903 to 1950, by the Berlin Missionary Society.\n"}
{"id": "10436558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10436558", "title": "Nigrodharama", "text": "Nigrodharama\n\nNigrodhārāma was a Banyan grove near Kapilavastu, where a residence was provided for the Buddha when he visited the city in the first year after his Enlightenment. It belonged to a Sākyan named Nigrodha, the monk who made Ashoka, the Mauryan Emperor a Buddhist; who gave it to the Monastic Order. The Nigrodharama is located at the site of the modern Kudan village, about six kilometres south of Tilaurakot, the citadel of Kapilavastu. The precise location of Nigrodharama is at the following coordinates: .\n\nIt was at the Nigrodharama that Mahāpajāpati Gotamī first asked permission for women to enter the Order. This was refused, and from there the Buddha went on to Vesāli.\n\nThe Buddha stayed at the Nigrodhārāma on several occasions, and several Vinaya rules are mentioned as being first promulgated there. Various Sākyans came to see the Buddha at the Nigrodhārāma, among them, Mahānāma, Godha, Sarakāni, Nandiya and Vappa.\n\nThe Buddha himself visited Kāligodhā during his residence there. It was during a discussion with Mahānāma that the Cula Dukkhakkhandha Sutta was preached. During one of the Buddha's residences in Nigrodhārāma, the Sākyans invited him to consecrate their new Mote Hall, which he did by preaching there far into the night and then asking Moggallāna to continue his discourse. On another occasion the Buddha is mentioned as having spent a period of convalescence at Nigrodhārāma; he was there also when the quarrel broke out between the Sākyans and the Koliyans regarding the water of the Rohinī). It seems to have been the Buddha's custom, when staying at Nigrodhārāma, sometimes to spend the noonday siesta in the Mahāvana (Great Forest) nearby.\nAmong others mentioned as having stayed at Nigrodhārāma are Anuruddha and Lomasakangiya; a deva called Candana there taught him the Bhaddekaratta Sutta. This Lomasakangīya might be the same as Lomavangīsa, who is also mentioned as having lived in Nigrodhārāma?\n\nNear Nigrodhārāma was once the site of the dwelling of a hermit (isi) called Kanha. The Buddha, remembering this, once smiled, and, when asked the reason for his smile, related the Kanha Jātaka (J.iv.6).\n\nThere is a tradition that the Cariya Pitaka and the Buddhavamsa were preached by the Buddha to Sariputta during his first stay in Nigrodhārāma. It was probably there that Anuruddha's sister built, at his request, an assembly hall of two storeys for the Sangha. Buddhaghosa says that Kāla Khemaka, the Sākyan, built a special vihāra near Nigrodhārāma, on one side of the grounds.\n\nThe remains of the Nigrodharama are currently called Kudan, because it is located close to Kudan village. The remains consist of two (excavated) large stupas, and a third as yet unexcavated one. The third (unexcavated) stupa has a more recent (possibly Islamic) structure built on top of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "5584426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584426", "title": "Order of the Temple of the Rosy Cross", "text": "Order of the Temple of the Rosy Cross\n\nThe Order of the Temple of the Rosy Cross (OTRC) was an early 20th century theosophical group. It was founded in 1912 by leaders of the Theosophical Society, including Annie Besant, Marie Russak and James Ingall Wedgwood.\n\nAccording to Gregory Tillett, in \"Charles Webster Leadbeater 1854-1934\", both Russak and Wedgwood were mediums who purportedly communicated messages from the Masters during Temple meetings. Russak's understudy in the Temple was Lady Emily Lutyens, the English representative of the Order of the Star in the East and editor of its journal, \"Herald of the Star\", who was also in the society's esoteric section and \"introduced wealthy converts\" who financed the society.\n\nAccording to \"The Vahan\", the was dedicated \"to the study of the Mysteries, Rosicrucian, Cabal, Astrology, Masonry, Symbolism, Christian Ceremonial, Mystic Traditions and Occults of the West\". And it added that: \"To confide in that such work serves as preliminary for the restoration of the missing Mysteries of Europe with the decadence of Rome\".\n\n\"Sophia\" announced that \"The Council of the Order is composed by 12 Brothers deeply interested in all that refers to the Ceremonial Occultism and Archaic Mysteries, and that they hope to form a useful instrument, under the inspiration of the Master Rákóczi, to resuscitate the Old Mysteries and to prepare the arrival of the Master of the World\".\nTemple members wore white tunics and met biweekly in \"Oratory\" and \"Laboratory\". \nIn the oratory, they expounded and discussed spiritual and philosophical texts. In the laboratory introspective work and ritual was practised. After the Order's dissolution, Russak entered the Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucis (AMORC) and actively collaborated with Harvey Spencer Lewis in creating rituals for in California, in the 1920s.\n\nCharles Webster Leadbeater disapproved of the Temple because he neither established nor controlled it, and mediums, other than Besant and Leadbeater, communicated messages from the Masters. He claimed that the rituals \"produced 'adverse forces so Leadbeater unsuccessfully \"tried to persuade\" Lutyens \"to have it reorganized along lines which he suggested.\" In 1914, Leadbeater communicated \"a message from the Master ordering its dissolution.\"\n\nMax Heindel in \"Rays from the Rose Cross\" printed in 1915, argued that there could be no connection between The Rosicrucian Fellowship and the , or any other Theosophical Society order because \"the aim of The Theosophical Society and their subsidiary orders are diametrically opposed to The Rosicrucian Fellowship\" which \"espoused the Western Wisdom Religion\" and believe in the \"Western methods for Western people.\" The Rosicrucian Fellowship took the founding of the , by leaders of the Theosophical Society, as \"an indication that they had seen the true Christ Light, in the West, and were preparing to emulate the 'Wise Men of the East' who traveled westward following the Christ Star to Bethlehem.\" The Order was resuscitated in 2016 by an elder brother based in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "41235780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41235780", "title": "Pannalal Jain", "text": "Pannalal Jain\n\nSahityacharya Dr. Pandit Pannalal Jain (1911–2001) was a distinguished Jain scholar.\nDr. Kasturchand Kasliwal has regarded him as among the 20 most distinguished of the Jain scholars of 20th century His teaching career spanned 70 years, from 1931 to 2001.\n\nHe was the son of Gallilal and Jankibai of Parguvan, a small village in Sagar, born in 1911. He moved to Sagar with his mother after the death of his father in 1919. Pannalal studied at the famous institute in Sagar, \"Sattarka Sudha Tarangini\nSanskrit Pathashala\", now Ganesh Varni Sanskrit Vidyalaya, founded by Ganeshprasad Varni. For a long time Pannalaji also taught there. He was married in 1931, same year he was appointed as a teacher at the Vidyalaya.\nLater he studied at Syadvadad Mahavidyalaya in Varanasi. He earned Sahityacharya degree in 1936. He spent most of his life in Sagar as the guiding scholar at Sattarka Sudha Tarangini Sanskrit Pathashala, later known as Ganesh Digambar Jain Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, at Moraji, Sagar, from 1933 to 1983. After retiring he taught at Varni Digambar Jain Gurukul at Jabalpur until 8 January 2001.\n\nHe edited both volumes of the well known autobiography Meri Jivan Gatha by Kshullak Ganeshprasad Varni which were published in 1949 and 1960. He also edited Shri Ganeshprasad Varni Smriti Granth in 1974.\n\nHe had served as a guide to prominent monks and nuns. He assisted Acharya Vidyasagar in starting discourses on Dhavala texts in Sagar in 1980. He often advised Aryika Vishuddhamati when she headed the Mahilashram at Sagar. He was also associated with the Jain institutions at Dronagiri and Bada Malahara. In 1955, he helped organize the historic Gajrath as Prachar Mantri. He also assisted in the Gajrath festival at Khajuraho in 1981. He was associated with the Digambar Jain Vidyaparishad, a leading council of scholars, during 1946 to 1985.\n\nA simple, gentle and unassuming traditional scholar, he was awarded a PhD by Sagar University in 1973 for his work on Mahakavi Harichand.\n\nHe was honoured by the President of India for his educational contributions to teaching of Sanskrit in 1969.\n\nJain is best known for his translations and commentaries of Sanskrit Puranic literature including Mahapurana, Uttarapurana, and Padmapurana.\n\nHe has also composed several vratodyapana texts based on classical Sanskrit sources.\n\nHe was given title Vidya-Varidhi (meaning the ocean of learning) by \nthe Sagar shravakas in 1976.\n\nHe was a prolific author. His works \nwere given special awards by literary organisations.\n\nArhat-Vachan Journal commented on his death: \"by his \ndeparture, a leading lighthouse of 20th century of the Jain scholarly\ntradition has fallen.\"\n\nOn 8 March 2001, at the Kundalpur Tirth, in the shadow of Lord Adinath Bade Baba, Pannalal Jain laid down his body, having entered his final meditation.\nIn Sagar, the street passing through the centrally located Namak Mandi has been named Sahityacharya Pandit Pannalal Jain Marg, which has a bust in the middle of the road. His statue has been placed on Namak mandi tiraha, one way.\n\nAchala Jain, who wrote her dissertation on his contributions to Sanskrit literature, was awarded a PhD by the Indore University.\n\nThe organisation Pannalal Jain Smararak Samiti honours Sanskrit scholars in Sagar.\n\nJain Muni Pratyakshsagar was his grandson.\n"}
{"id": "39660052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39660052", "title": "Panteón Hill", "text": "Panteón Hill\n\nPanteón (Pantheon) Hill in one of the 42 hills of the city of Valparaíso, Chile. It is surrounded by Ecuador and Cumming Streets and it has its base on Condell Street. It is next to Cárcel (Jail) Hill and Panteón Hill is part of the central chain of Valparaíso's hills.\n\nPanteón is Spanish for cemetery. It is named Cemetery Hill because three cemeteries of the city can be found on the hill: the Cemetery No. 1, the Dissidents Cemetery and the Cemetery No. 2.\n\nAt the beginning of the 19th century, the people of Valparaíso used to bury their dead by letting them wash away in the ocean or on the tops of hills. These unsanitary practices eventually caused a health crisis. In 1825, the government bought some lands to found a cemetery on the hill on the periphery of the city. The Catholics originally created the cemetery nº1, and with the help of British immigrants a second one was created to bury at those not of the Catholic faith, called Dissidents Cemetery. Cemetery nº2 was created in 1848.\n"}
{"id": "47232558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47232558", "title": "Prayers of Pahery", "text": "Prayers of Pahery\n\nThe Prayers of Pahery are the prayers to be said in the tomb of a man named Pahery who was alive in the XVIII dynasty of Egypt.\n\nThe prayers are the second oldest archaeological evidence for the existence of an after-life within ancient Egyptian culture apart from the oldest which is the Book of the Dead. The text within his tomb show :\n\n1. A prayer which is present traditionally within tombs of Egypt, for the purposes of offerings.\n\n2. A well-detailed description of the after-life.\n\n3. A prayer attesting to the quality of the service of Paheri as an official.\n\n4. An appeal for the purposes of having the living recite the prayer for offerings.\n\nPahery was the mayor for a time of El-Kab and Esna, and scribe of the treasury. His name is spelt otherwise, Paheri.\n"}
{"id": "7160788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7160788", "title": "Proclus Mallotes", "text": "Proclus Mallotes\n\nProclus (or Proklos) Mallotes () was a Stoic philosopher and a native of Mallus in Cilicia. According to the \"Suda\" he was the author of the following books:\n\n\nHis date is unknown; he probably lived at some point between the 1st century BCE and the 3rd century CE. It is probably this Proclus who is mentioned by Proclus Diadochus.\n"}
{"id": "1687041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1687041", "title": "Regina Coeli", "text": "Regina Coeli\n\nThe Regina Cæli or Regina Cœli (\"Queen of Heaven\", pronounced in Ecclesiastical Latin) is an ancient Latin Marian Hymn of the Christian Church.\n\nIt is one of the four seasonal Marian antiphons of the Blessed Virgin Mary, prescribed to be sung or recited in the Liturgy of the Hours at the conclusion of the last of the hours to be prayed in common that day, typically night prayer (Compline or Vespers). Any one of these four or of other suitable antiphons may now be sung at any time of the liturgical year. The \"Regina Coeli\" is sung or recited in place of the \"Angelus\" during the Easter season, from Easter Sunday until Pentecost.\n\nAs with many Christian prayers, it takes its name from its incipit or first word(s). The Latin word \"coelum\", meaning \"heaven\" (hence the English word \"celestial\"), was a common medieval and early modern spelling of \"caelum\", which was the only form in Classical Latin. In medieval Latin, \"ae\" and \"oe\" were both pronounced [eː]; the form was also influenced by an extremely dubious etymology from Greek \"koilos\", \"hollow\".\n\nWhile the authorship of the \"Regina Caeli\" is unknown, the hymn has been traced back to the 12th century. It was in Franciscan use, after Compline, in the first half of the following century. According to Catholic tradition, St Gregory the Great heard angels chanting the first three lines one Easter morning in Rome, while following barefoot in a great religious procession of the icon of the Virgin painted by Luke the Evangelist. He was thereupon inspired to add the fourth line.\n\nThere are plainsong melodies (a simple and an ornate form) associated with \"Regina Caeli\", the official or \"typical\" melody being found in the \"Vatican Antiphonary\", 1911, p. 126. The antiphonal strophes of \"Regina Caeli\" were often set by polyphonic composers of the 16th century. Lully's motet \"Regina coeli, laetare\" was written in 1684. There are three settings by the young Mozart (K.108, K.127, and K.276), and one by Brahms (Op. 37 #3). Settings continue to be written in the twenty-first century.\n\nIn Anglican churches, the alternative translation (see below) is in 7.7.7.7 metre, and is usually sung to the hymn tune known as Easter Hymn, \"Christ the Lord is Risen Today\" or the hymn tune \"Ave Virgo Virginum\" (Hail Virgin of virgins).\n\n\nA literal translation (note: ℣ stands for Versicle and ℟ stands for Response):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3057643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3057643", "title": "Religion in Sudan", "text": "Religion in Sudan\n\nReligion plays an important role in Sudan, with 97% of the country's population adhering to Islam. The vast majority of Muslims in Sudan are Sunni belonging to the Maliki school of jurisprudence. Protestants are about 5% of the population mainly in the south. Roman Catholics are 3.2%.\n\nSudan was predominantly Christian at the time of the arrival of Islam in the seventh and eighth century. The indigenous Nubian Coptic Christians continued to compose a substantial portion of the regions' population up until the nineteenth century, when most were forced to convert to Islam under the Mahdist state (1881-1898). The conversion was accomplished by violence, ethnic cleansing, and the wholesale slaughter of Christians and Roman Catholics. Many who converted were then murdered by beheading, stonings, and other means. The Coptic Orthodox Church's influence is still marginally present in Sudan, with several hundred thousand remaining adherents. In 2011, the predominantly Christian areas in South Sudan seceded to form a new country. Christians in the Nuba Mountains, which the Sudanese government retained for the region's mineral wealth, remain particularly subject to persecution. The Sudanese government's military actions against the Nuba people have been labeled ethnic cleansing.\n\nThere were approximately 1.1 million Catholics in (pre-partition) Sudan, about 3.2 percent of the total population. Sudan forms one ecclesiastical province, consisting of one archdiocese (the Archdiocese of Khartoum) and one suffragan diocese (the diocese of El Obeid). The vast majority of Sudan's Catholics ended up in South Sudan after the partition.\n\nEach indigenous religion is unique to a specific ethnic group or part of a group, although several groups may share elements of belief and ritual because of common ancestry or mutual influence. The group serves as the congregation, and an individual usually belongs to that faith by virtue of membership in the group. Believing and acting in a religious mode is part of daily life and is linked to the social, political, and economic actions and relationships of the group. The beliefs and practices of indigenous religions in Sudan are not systematized, in that the people do not generally attempt to put together in a coherent fashion the doctrines they hold and the rituals they practice.\n\nThe concept of a high spirit or divinity, usually seen as a creator and sometimes as ultimately responsible for the actions of lesser spirits, is common to most Sudanese groups. Often the higher divinity is remote, and believers treat the other spirits as autonomous, orienting their rituals to these spirits rather than to the high god. Such spirits may be perceived as forces of nature or as manifestations of ancestors. Spirits may intervene in people's lives, either because individuals or groups have transgressed the norms of the society or because they have failed to pay adequate attention to the ritual that should be addressed to the spirits.\n\nThe notions of sorcery are to be found in varying forms among peoples, including nomadic and other Arabs, who consider themselves Muslims. A specific belief widespread among Arabs and other Muslim peoples is the notion of the evil eye. Although a physiological peculiarity of the eye (walleye or cross-eye) may be considered indicative of the evil eye, any persons expressing undue interest in the private concerns of another may be suspected of inflicting deliberate harm by a glance. Unlike most witchcraft, where the perpetrator is known by and often close to the victim, the evil eye is usually attributed to strangers. Children are thought to be the most vulnerable.\n\nWays exist to protect oneself against sorcery or the evil eye. Many magico-religious specialists—diviners and sorcerers—deal with these matters in Sudanese societies. The diviner is able to determine whether witchcraft or sorcery is responsible for the affliction and to discover the source. He also protects and cures by providing amulets and other protective devices for a fee or by helping a victim punish (in occult fashion) the sorcerer in order to be cured of the affliction. If it is thought that an evil spirit has possessed a person, an exorcist may be called in. In some groups these tasks may be accomplished by the same person; in others, the degree of specialization may be greater. In northern Sudan among Muslim peoples, the faqih may spend more of his time as the diviner, dispenser of amulets, healer, and exorcist than as Qur'anic teacher, imam of a mosque, or mystic.\n\nSudan is reported by \"The Washington Post\" to be among the seven countries where atheism can attract capital punishment. The true number of atheists in Sudan is unknown due to fear and prejudice suffered by non-Muslims.\n\nAlthough the 2005 Interim National Constitution (INC) provides for freedom of religion throughout the entire country of Sudan, the INC enshrines Shari'a as a source of legislation in the north and the official laws and policies of the government favour Islam in that part of the country.\n\nSudan has been forced to convert to Islam by conversation through violence. Some who have converted have been killed anyway. Up until 2010, the country was 80%, in 2018 it is 85% Islam.\nMost Sudanese Muslims are adherents of the Sunni branch of Islam, a vast majority following the Maliki rites, although Shafi and Hanafi rites are also present.\n\nShiaism and its related Mahdist ideology have recently grown in popularity in Sudan. A growing number of Shias, for example, have emerged in Khartoum and surrounding villages.\n\nSufism and Shia Islam support Prophet Muhammad's bloodline, Ahl al-Bayt. Some Shias prefer to practice their faith under the umbrella of Sufism for the sake of safety as Sufism tends to be less socially and politically controversial in Sudan than Shia Islam. However, Salafists and Jihadists have carried out bloody attacks on those belonging to Sufi, Shia, and other sects that they claim to be heretical. \n\nSunni Islam in Sudan is not marked by a uniform body of belief and practice, however. Some Muslims opposed aspects of Sunni orthodoxy, and rites having a non-Islamic origin were widespread, being accepted as if they were integral to Islam, or sometimes being recognized as separate. A great majority of Muslims in Sudan adhere to Sufism or are heavily influenced by it, making Sudan one of the most tolerant Muslim majority countries in the world.\n\nSunni Islam requires of the faithful five fundamental obligations that constitute the Five Pillars of Islam. The first pillar, the shahadah or profession of faith is the affirmation \"There is no deity but God, and Muhammad is His messenger.\" It is the first step in becoming a Muslim. The second obligation is prayer at five specified times of the day. The third enjoins almsgiving. The fourth requires fasting during daylight hours in the month of Ramadan. The fifth requires a pilgrimage to Mecca for those able to perform it, to participate in the special rites that occur during the twelfth month of the lunar calendar. \nMost Sudanese Muslims are born to the faith and meet the first requirement. Conformity to the second requirement is more variable. Many males in the cities and larger towns manage to pray five times a day: at dawn, noon, midafternoon, sundown, and evening. The well-to-do perform little work during Ramadan, and many businesses close or operate on reduced schedules. In the early 1990s, its observance appeared to be widespread, especially in urban areas and among sedentary Sudanese Muslims.\n\nThe pilgrimage to Mecca is less costly and arduous for the Sudanese than it is for many Muslims. Nevertheless, it takes time (or money if travel is by air), and the ordinary Sudanese Muslim has generally found it difficult to accomplish, rarely undertaking it before middle age. Some have joined pilgrimage societies into which members pay a small amount monthly and choose one of their number when sufficient funds have accumulated to send someone on the pilgrimage. A returned pilgrim is entitled to use the honorific title hajj or hajjih for a woman.\n\nAnother ceremony commonly observed is the great feast Id al Adha (also known as Id al Kabir), representing the sacrifice made during the last days of the pilgrimage. The centerpiece of the day is the slaughter of a sheep, which is distributed to the poor, kin, neighbors, and friends, as well as the immediate family.\n\nIslam imposes a standard of conduct encouraging generosity, fairness, and honesty towards other Muslims. Sudanese Arabs, especially those who are wealthy, are expected by their coreligionists to be generous.\n\nIn accordance with Islamic law most Sudanese Muslims do not eat pork. Conformity to the prohibitions on gambling and alcohol is less widespread. Usury is also forbidden by Islamic law, but Islamic banks have developed other ways of making money available to the public.\n\nIn Sudan (until 1983) modern criminal and civil, including commercial, law generally prevailed. In the north, however, the sharia was expected to govern what is usually called family and personal law, i.e., matters such as marriage, divorce, and inheritance. In the towns and in some sedentary communities sharia was accepted, but in other sedentary communities and among nomads local custom was likely to prevailparticularly with respect to inheritance.\n\nIn September 1983, Nimeiri imposed the sharia throughout the land, eliminating the civil and penal codes by which the country had been governed in the twentieth century. Traditional Islamic punishments were imposed for theft, adultery, homicide, and other crimes. The zealousness with which these punishments were carried out contributed to the fall of Nimeiri. Nevertheless, no successor government has shown inclination to abandon the sharia.\n\nMinority rights are severely restricted under Sharia. An example is the law on apostasy. Non-Muslim Sudanese are permitted to convert to Islam, but Muslims are forbidden by law to leave Islam or to change their beliefs. Article 126 of the 1991 Penal Code states that any Muslim who \"...publicly declares his renouncement (of Islam) by an express statement or conclusive act...\" is, upon failure to repent, to be sentenced to death.\n\nIslam is monotheistic and insists that there can be no intercessors between an individual and God. Nevertheless, Sudanese Islam includes a belief in spirits as sources of illness or other afflictions and in magical ways of dealing with them. The imam of a mosque is a prayer leader and preacher of sermons. He may also be a teacher and in smaller communities combines both functions. In the latter role, he is called a faqih (pl., fuqaha), although a faqih need not be an imam. In addition to teaching in the local Qur'anic school (khalwa), the faqih is expected to write texts (from the Qur'an) or magical verses to be used as amulets and cures. His blessing may be asked at births, marriages, deaths, and other important occasions, and he may participate in wholly non-Islamic harvest rites in some remote places. All of these functions and capacities make the faqih the most important figure in popular Islam. But he is not a priest. His religious authority is based on his putative knowledge of the Qur'an, the sharia, and techniques for dealing with occult threats to health and well- being. The notion that the words of the Qur'an will protect against the actions of evil spirits or the evil eye is deeply embedded in popular Islam, and the amulets prepared by the faqih are intended to protect their wearers against these dangers.\n\nIn Sudan as in much of African Islam, the cult of the saint is of considerable importance, although some Muslims would reject it. The development of the cult is closely related to the presence of the religious orders; many who came to be considered saints on their deaths were founders or leaders of religious orders who in their lifetimes were thought to have barakah, a state of blessedness implying an indwelling spiritual power inherent in the religious office. Baraka intensifies after death as the deceased becomes a wali (literally friend of God, but in this context translated as saint). The tomb and other places associated with the saintly being become the loci of the person's baraka, and in some views he or she becomes the guardian spirit of the locality. The intercession of the wali is sought on a variety of occasions, particularly by those seeking cures or by barren women desiring children. A saint's annual holy day is the occasion of a local festival that may attract a large gathering.\n\nBetter-educated Muslims in Sudan may participate in prayer at a saint's tomb but argue that prayer is directed only to God. Many others, however, see the saint not merely as an intercessor with and an agent of God, but also as a nearly autonomous source of blessing and power, thereby approaching \"popular\" as opposed to orthodox Islam.\n\nIslam made its deepest and longest lasting impact in Sudan through the activity of the Islamic religious brotherhoods or orders. These orders emerged in the Middle East in the twelfth century in connection with the development of Sufism, a reaction based in mysticism to the strongly legalistic orientation of mainstream Islam. These orders first came to Sudan in the sixteenth century and became significant in the eighteenth. Sufism seeks its adherents a closer personal relationship with God through special spiritual disciplines. The exercises (or \"dhikr\") include reciting prayers and passages of the Qur'an and repeating the names, or attributes, of God while performing physical movements according to the formula established by the founder of the particular order. Singing and dancing may be introduced. The outcome of an exercise, which lasts much longer than the usual daily prayer, is often a state of ecstatic abandon.\n\nA mystical or devotional way (sing. \"tariqa\"; pl. \"turuq\") is the basis for the formation of particular orders, each of which is also called a tariqa. The specialists in religious law and learning initially looked askance at Sufism and the Sufi orders, but the leaders of Sufi orders in Sudan have won acceptance by acknowledging the significance of the sharia and not claiming that Sufism replaces it.\n\nThe principal turuq varies considerably in their practice and internal organization. Some orders are tightly organized in a hierarchical fashion; others have allowed their local branches considerable autonomy. There may be as many as a dozen Turuq in Sudan. Some are restricted to that country; others are widespread in Africa or the Middle East. Several Turuq, for all practical purposes independent, are offshoots of older orders and were established by men who altered in major or minor ways the tariqa of the orders to which they had formerly been attached.\n\nThe oldest and most widespread of the turuq is the Qadiriyah founded by Abdul Qadir Jilani in Baghdad in the twelfth century and introduced into Sudan in the sixteenth. The Qadiriyah's principal rival and the largest tariqa in the western part of the country was the Tijaniyah, a sect begun by Sidi Ahmed al-Tidjani at Tijani in Morocco, which eventually penetrated Sudan in about 1810 via the western Sahel (a narrow band of savanna bordering the southern Sahara, stretching across Africa). Many Tijani became influential in Darfur, and other adherents settled in northern Kurdufan. Later on, a class of Tijani merchants arose as markets grew in towns and trade expanded, making them less concerned with providing religious leadership. Of greater importance to Sudan was the tariqa established by the followers of Sayyid Ahmad ibn Idris, known as Al Fasi, who died in 1837. Although he lived in Arabia and never visited Sudan, his students spread into the Nile Valley establishing indigenous Sudanese orders which include the Majdhubiyah, the Idrisiyah, the Ismailiyah, and the Khatmiyyah.\n\nMuch different in organization from the other brotherhoods is the Khatmiyyah (or Mirghaniyah after the name of the order's founder). Established in the early nineteenth century by Muhammad Uthman al Mirghani, it became the best organized and most politically oriented and powerful of the turuq in eastern Sudan (see Turkiyah). Mirghani had been a student of Sayyid Ahmad ibn Idris and had joined several important orders, calling his own order the seal of the paths (Khatim at Turuq—hence Khatmiyyah). The salient features of the Khatmiyyah are the extraordinary status of the Mirghani family, whose members alone may head the order; loyalty to the order, which guarantees paradise; and the centralized control of the order's branches.\nThe Khatmiyyah had its center in the southern section of Ash Sharqi State and its greatest following in eastern Sudan and in portions of the riverine area. The Mirghani family were able to turn the Khatmiyyah into a political power base, despite its broad geographical distribution, because of the tight control they exercised over their followers. Moreover, gifts from followers over the years have given the family and the order the wealth to organize politically. This power did not equal, however, that of the Mirghanis' principal rival, the Ansar, or followers of the Mahdi, whose present-day leader was Sadiq al-Mahdi, the great-grandson of Muhammad Ahmad, who drove the Egyptian administration from Sudan in 1885.\n\nMost other orders were either smaller or less well organized than the Khatmiyyah. Moreover, unlike many other African Muslims, Sudanese Muslims did not all seem to feel the need to identify with one or another tariqa, even if the affiliation were nominal. Many Sudanese Muslims preferred more political movements that sought to change Islamic society and governance to conform to their own visions of the true nature of Islam.\nOne of these movements, Mahdism, was founded in the late nineteenth century. It has been likened to a religious order, but it is not a tariqa in the traditional sense. Mahdism and its adherents, the Ansar, sought the regeneration of Islam, and in general were critical of the turuq. Muhammad Ahmad ibn as Sayyid Abd Allah, a faqih, proclaimed himself to be al-Mahdi al-Muntazar (\"the awaited guide in the right path\"), the messenger of God and representative of the Prophet Muhammad, an assertion that became an article of faith among the Ansar. He was sent, he said, to prepare the way for the second coming of the Prophet Isa (Jesus) and the impending end of the world. In anticipation of Judgment Day, it was essential that the people return to a simple and rigorous, even puritanical Islam (see Mahdiyah). The idea of the coming of a Mahdi has roots in Sunni Islamic traditions. The issue for Sudanese and other Muslims was whether Muhammad Ahmad was, in fact, the Mahdi.\n\nIn the century since the Mahdist uprising, the neo-Mahdist movement, and the Ansar, supporters of Mahdism from the west, have persisted as a political force in Sudan. Many groups, from the Baqqara cattle nomads to the largely sedentary tribes on the White Nile, supported this movement. The Ansar were hierarchically organized under the control of Muhammad Ahmad's successors, who have all been members of the Mahdi family (known as the ashraf). The ambitions and varying political perspectives of different members of the family have led to internal conflicts, and it appeared that Sadiq al-Mahdi, the putative leader of the Ansar since the early 1970s, did not enjoy the unanimous support of all Mahdists. Mahdist family political goals and ambitions seemed to have taken precedence over the movement's original religious mission. The modern-day Ansar were thus loyal more to the political descendants of the Mahdi than to the religious message of Mahdism.\n\nA movement that spread widely in Sudan in the 1960s, responding to the efforts to secularize Islamic society, was the Muslim Brotherhood (Al Ikhwan al Muslimin). Originally the Muslim Brotherhood, often known simply as the Brotherhood, was conceived as a religious revivalist movement that sought to return to the fundamentals of Islam in a way that would be compatible with the technological innovations introduced from the West. Disciplined, highly motivated, and well-financed the Brotherhood became a powerful political force during the 1970s and 1980s, although it represented only a small minority of Sudanese. In the government that was formed in June 1989, following a bloodless coup d'état, the Brotherhood exerted influence through its political wing, the National Islamic Front (NIF) party, which included several cabinet members among its adherents.\n\n"}
{"id": "23013667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23013667", "title": "Resala Charity Organization", "text": "Resala Charity Organization\n\nResala, also known as Resala Association, is a non-profit organization based in Egypt.\n\nResala was established in 1999 as a youth movement at Cairo University and Sherif Abd Al Azim, an engineering professor, supervised the movement. \n\nIt is powered by over 250,000 volunteers spanning 67 branches all over Egypt. It provides 31 activities aiming at helping the Egyptian community. These activities include: caring for orphans, helping the blind, the deaf, children with special needs, blood donation, poverty alleviation, literacy training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54678131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54678131", "title": "Ringing Cedars' Anastasianism", "text": "Ringing Cedars' Anastasianism\n\nThe Ringing Cedars (Russian: Звенящие Кедры) or Anastasianism (Анастасианство, Анастасиизм) is a new spiritual and religious movement that started in central Russia in 1997 and spread across neighboring countries as well as parts of Europe, America, Asia and Australia, based on the series of ten books entitled \"The Ringing Cedars of Russia\" written by Vladimir Megre. At the 2018 Frankfurt Book Fair, where the author drew a large crowd, it was claimed the books have sold 20 million copies worldwide and has been translated in 20 languages.\n\nFamily, tradition and environmentalism are core values for the Anastasians. The knowledge contained in the books is attributed to a woman named Anastasia who dwells in the Siberian Taiga. Ringing Cedars' Anastasians are sometimes categorisable as Rodnovers, as many of them are proponents of the return to a Slavic Native Faith (Rodnovery) or other indigenous religion. Other scholars do not categorise them as Rodnovers, but as a distinct modern Pagan movement. The books that the movement relies upon offer a holistic worldview teaching about humanity's relationship with nature, God and the universe, the creation of the world, the power of thought in modelling the future, cyclical eschatology, relationships between men and women, and education.\n\nThe name \"Ringing Cedars\" comes from Anastasians' beliefs about spiritual qualities of the Siberian cedar. Anastasianism has been classified as part of the broad spectrum of self-described \"Vedic\" religions arising in post-Soviet Russia. Anastasians propose a whole new model of social organisation, that of the \"kinship homestead\" or settlement (родовое поместье, \"rodovoye pomest'ye\"). The Ringing Cedars have become popular in Russia, and the movement has also spread to other Slavic countries, broader Eastern Europe, and communities have also been established in the West. In Russia, Anastasians face the hostility of the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nThe two names of the movement are explainable as follows: \"Ringing Cedars\" refers to the movement's beliefs about the spiritual qualities of the Siberian cedar, a kind of pine; \"Anastasia\" (Ἀναστασία, \"Anastasía\"), from \"anástasis\" (ἀνάστασις), is a Greek phenomenological word meaning \"resurrection\".\n\nThe theme of the \"singing tree\" appears across various Indo-European-originated cultures; Anastasians consider themselves the reintegrators (otherwise said, resurrectors) of the authentic Vedic spiritual culture, authentic Russian religion consisting in the cultivation of \"Rod\" (God as generation/nature), which has been preserved over the centuries by Russian settlers and \"volkhv\"s (shamans) in Siberia who fled the Christianisation of Kievan Rus'—a Christianisation which was decided by the ruling elites in order to disrupt the ties of society and of human society with the natural world (ancestors and gods of the environment as the direct link to \"Rod\") justifying the confiscation of all land and the enslavement of the population.\n\nThe Ringing Cedars may be described as a nature religion, since Anastasian spirituality emphasises the sacredness of nature or generation, conceived as a source of divinity and the mean of communication with God (\"Rod\"). Scholar Rasa Pranskevičiūtė characterises this vision as pantheistic, and notes how it is a fundamental influence in Anastasians' social project. They stress the importance of harmony, that is to say giving and receiving love and respect, appropriate reciprocal cultivation, to be put into practice among individual persons and between the community of individuals and the divinity of all nature.\n\nA Lithuanian Anastasian has defined God as follows:\n\nAnastasians believe that nature is the \"materialised thoughts of God\". All living things are believed to be thoughts of God, and therefore by communicating with them humanity may communicate with God.\n\nThe Ringing Cedars believe in the interconnectedness of all being, and therefore they greatly emphasise the moral responsibility of individuals and humanity towards the umbegoing world. They believe that human thoughts and feelings actively, magically influence the umbegoing world, having the power to affirm or disrupt natural harmony. Pranskevičiūtė reports the following excerpt from Megre's doctrine (1998):\n\nIn order to be respectful towards other forms of life, Anastasians try to eschew any form of killing, and therefore they adopt vegetarian, vegan, and raw food diets, and wear clothes made of natural materials.\n\nAccording to Megre, when a man lives in harmony with his own kin within a homestead of at least a hectare in size, a \"love space\" is established. A \"love space\" is where God is present, immanent, and constitutes a \"Heaven on earth\", where kindred people grow together with the surrounding world. The concept of \"love space\" is not merely geographic, but includes anything good which an individual may create. A kinship homestead is also a web of natural relationship, between kindred people.\n\nIn other words, the kinship homestead mirrors the modality of God's work through nature. In his hectare of land a man is capable of building a house with natural materials, growing plants and domesticating animals, creating an ecosystem. As such it is perceived as a holy land, a microcosm reflecting the macrocosm, wherein individuals may \"co-create\" with kindred people and with God. According to Anastasians' own experiences reported by Andreeva and Pranskevičiūtė, the new social organisation represented by the kinship homesteads helps people to leave the unnatural and decaying urban technocratic system, which they conceive as a close system which smothers human creativity ensnaring it in meaningless behaviours.\n\nA Russian Anastasian has described her experience of the kinship homestead as follows:\nThe \"love space\" always corresponds to a transcendental space where an individual may be reborn. Anastasians believe that reincarnation may be consciously planned, and it occurs in the lineage. Reincarnation occurs within the \"love space\", or the established kin, because the offspring remember their ancestors. The Ringing Cedars believe that humans and all of reality is fundamentally energy of thought, and ancestors may be reborn if they are thought by their descendants.\n\nIn the books, Anastasia teaches a cyclical eschatology, according to which time develops through three phases: a \"Vedic\" (of vision) period when humanity lives in harmony with Heaven; an \"Imagic\" (of image) period when knowledge starts to be codified and concentrates in the hands of progressively fewer holy men; and an \"Occultic\" (of hiding) period in which knowledge is totally \"hidden\" and humanity's consciousness severely downgrades. The contemporary epoch is considered to be one of the third type. Anastasians believe that they are at the forefront of the rebirth of a \"Vedic\" golden age, and their appeals to go \"back to nature\" imply to go back to the awareness which characterises humanity during such golden ages, which also equates to a reawakening of the ancestors. These ideas are expressed in Ringing Cedars' books as follows:\n\nThe \"Anastasia Foundation for Supporting Culture and Creativity\" (\"Владимирский фонд поддержки культуры и творчества «Анастасия»\") is a non-commercial organisation, a private foundation established in the city of Vladimir by Vladimir Megre. It functions as an information and coordination center of the Ringing Cedars' movement. \"LLC Megre\" is, otherwise, a commercial organisation that produces cedar oil and other products under the brand name \"Ringing Cedars of Russia\".\n\nThe movement does not have a rigid structure, centralised organisation, hierarchy or authoritarian leaders. Independent associations of like-minded people arise spontaneously. The participants of the movement themselves, based on the ideas of books, have to develop applied organisational and ideological materials on their own.\n\nThe social ideal of the movement, upon which all its organisation relies, is the kinship homestead. It consists of a parcel of land of approximately one hectare owned by one family where its members and their descendants can live without having to rely on technical culture.\n\nThe official website of the Anastasian Foundation gives the following definition of the kinship homestead:\n\nAnastasians engage in nature-worshipping ceremonies and individual rituals. Rituals for hallowing the \"love spaces\" are crucial for most believers. The Ringing Cedars also organise pilgrimages to various sites which they consider to be holy, where they believe they may communicate with the ancestors through meditation. These sites include megalithic buildings like the dolmens of North Caucasus, and sites on the Black Sea coast, especially Gelendzhik in the region of Krasnodar. Lithuanian Anastasians make pilgrimage to a holy site in Tverai.\n\nAccording to Andreeva and Pranskevičiūtė, Russian Anastasians tend to give a political meaning to their experience, feeling actively engaged in a movement which frees from the yoke of technocracy and evil Western forces. The 2000s–2010s Great Recession has contributed to the strengthening of Anastasians' eschatological beliefs.\n\nRussian Anastasians also tend to give nationalist connotations to the concept of \"love space\", extending it to mean the \"Russian nation\" as an overarching concept, espouse traditionalist values, and Anastasianism for them represents an ethnocultural phenomenon. Otherwise, Anastasians in other countries, for instance Lithuania, tend to focus on spiritual beliefs and on the restoration of traditional rites. According to some observers, the Anastasian system of kinship homesteads is providing a solution to Russia's housing problems.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28973862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28973862", "title": "Saptaparni Cave", "text": "Saptaparni Cave\n\nSaptparni Cave, also referred to as Saptaparni Cave or Sattapani Cave, is a Buddhist cave site about southwest from Rajgir, Bihar, India. It is embedded in a hill. The Saptaparni Cave is important in the Buddhist tradition, because many believe it to be the site in which Buddha spent some time before his death, and where the first Buddhist council was held after Buddha died (paranirvana). It is here that a council of few hundred monks decided to appoint Ananda (Buddha's cousin) and Upali, believed to have a good memory and who had accompanied the Buddha when he gave sermons in north India, to compose Buddha's teachings for the future generations. The Buddha never wrote down his teachings. After the Saptaparni Caves meeting, Ananda created an oral tradition of Buddha's teaching from his memory, prefacing it with \"Thus have I heard on one occasion\". Upali is credited with reciting the \"Nikaya\" discipline or \"rules for the Bhikshus\". This tradition is found in \"Vinaya Pitaka\" II.284 through II.287 and \"Digha Nikaya\" II.154.\n"}
{"id": "2711148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2711148", "title": "Sheikh Adi ibn Musafir", "text": "Sheikh Adi ibn Musafir\n\nShaykh ‘Adī ibn Musāfir al-Umawī ( , died 1162) was an Arab Sufi Muslim who claimed descent from the Arabian Umayyad Caliph Marwan ibn al-Hakam, he was born in the 1070s in the Beqaa Valley of present-day Lebanon. ‘Adī is said to have been born in the village of Bait Far, near Baalbek, where the house of his birth was – and still is – a place of pious pilgrimage. The Yazidi consider him an Avatar of Tawûsê Melek, which means \"Peacock Angel\". His tomb at Lalish, Iraq is a focal point of Yazidi pilgrimage.\n\nShaykh ‘Adī spent much of his early life in Baghdad. To attain a sufi life and seclude himself he sought a quiet haven in Mespotamia.\n\nDespite his desire for seclusion, he impressed the local population with his asceticism and miracles.\n\nAdi was said to be very tanned and of middle stature. The Yazidis adopted him as their archetypal saint. Adi was celebrated on account of his saintly life. He founded a religious order named after himself, al-Adawiya. He resided in the mountains, alongside Hakkari Kurds in the region north of Mosul; and died at the age of 90 (1162 CE or 557 Hijra). According to others, he died in 1160 CE (555 Hijra) in the hermitage that he had built himself in the mountains, where his descendants lived after his demise. His sepulchre is indicated by three conical cupolas in the environs of the village of Baadri, 20 miles to the east of the Nestorian convent of Rabban-Hormuzd. His tomb still attracts a great number of people. Nightly processions by torch light include exhibitions of the green colored pall, which covers the tomb; and the distribution of large trays with smoking harisa (a ragout with coagulated milk). His followers believe that he was the incarnation of the divinity.\n\n"}
{"id": "363235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363235", "title": "Students Islamic Movement of India", "text": "Students Islamic Movement of India\n\nThe Students' Islamic Movement of India (abbreviated SIMI) is a banned Islamist organisation that was formed in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, in April 1977. The stated mission of SIMI is the \"liberation of India\" from Western materialistic cultural influence and to convert its Muslim society to live according to the Muslim code of conduct. The Indian government describes it as a terrorist organisation, and banned it in 2001, shortly after the 9/11 attacks. The ban was lifted in August 2008 by a special tribunal, but was reinstated by K.G. Balakrishnan, then Chief Justice, on 6 August 2008 on national security grounds.\n\nOn 25 April 1977, SIMI was founded in Aligarh, in the state of Uttar Pradesh, with Mohammad Ahmadullah Siddiqi as its founding president. (Siddiqi currently serves as a Professor of English and Journalism at Western Illinois University in Macomb, IL.). In 1981, SIMI activists protested against PLO leader Yasser Arafat's visit to India, and greeted him with black flags in New Delhi. Young SIMI activists viewed Arafat as a Western puppet, while the senior JIH leaders saw Arafat as a champion of the Palestinian cause. The JIH also became uncomfortable with SIMI's support of the 1979 Iranian Revolution and its communal orientation. After distancing itself from SIMI, JIH reverted to relying on the older student organization, SIO.\n\nSIMI maintains that concepts of secularism, democracy and nationalism, keystones of Indian Constitution, are antithetical to Islam. Among its various objectives, SIMI aims to counter what it perceives as the increasing moral degeneration, sexual anarchy in Indian society and the 'in sensitiveness' of a 'decadent' West. They aim to restore the supremacy of Islam through the resurrection of the \"khilafat\", emphasis on the Muslim \"ummah\" and the waging of \"jihad\".\n\nAccording to Sayeed Khan, a former president of SIMI, the group became more militant and extremist in the backdrop of communal riots and violence between Hindu and Muslim groups in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nSIMI organised violent protests against the demolition of the Babri Mosque. In the nationwide violence that followed the demolitions, SIMI activists clashed against the Police and the VHP.\n\nThe Government of India, by notification dated 08-02-2006 banned SIMI for the third time. SIMI was first banned on 26 September 2001 immediately following the September 11 attacks in the United States. SIMI remained banned from 27 September 2001 to 27 September 2003 during which period several prosecutions were launched against its members under the provisions of Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967.\n\nSIMI was banned for the third time on 8 February 2006. The second ban of SIMI dated 27 September 2003 came to an end on 27 September 2005. Therefore, SIMI was in existence between 28 September 2005 and 7 February 2006 but was believed to be dysfunctional due to the fact that many of its members were demoralised or had crossed the age of 30 years; which automatically made them ineligible to continue as a member of SIMI -SIMI has an age limit of 30 years for membership. Many of its members had to fight cases registered against them by the Government.\n\nHowever, on 27 July 2006, a spokesperson of the Indian Government told the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Tribunal held in New Delhi, that contrary to notions that SIMI's activities declined following its ban, the organisation \"had stepped up its subversive activities and was involved in almost all major explosions, communal violence and circulation of inflammatory material across the country.\"\n\nThe ban notification and the background note stated that SIMI deserved to be banned for clandestine activities and links with around 20 organisations through whom SIMI was allegedly operating. The background note clearly says that there was no violent incident in which SIMI was involved in the last 2–3 years.\n\nTo prove its case against SIMI, the Government cited several cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act registered between 1998–2001.\n\nThe third ban on SIMI was lifted by the Delhi High Court Tribunal on 5 August 2008. \"Material given by the home ministry is insufficient, so ban cannot be continued,\" Justice Geeta Mittal, a sitting Delhi High Court judge, said while lifting the ban. But the lifting of the ban was stayed by the supreme court of India on the next day itself(6 August 2008).\n\nA special tribunal has upheld the ban imposed on SIMI by the Home Ministry under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. The Tribunal's head confirming the ban held that SIMI has links with Pakistan-based terror outfits and its front, the Indian Mujahideen.\n\nThe exact nature of the relationship between SIMI and Indian Mujahideen (IM) is debated. Some analysts contend that IM is a militant branch of SIMI while others believe that the two groups are distinct although linked.\n\nSIMI operate under various fronts to avoid law enforcement agencies after it ban in 2001. Some of these outfits include:\n\n\n\n\nUnion government extended the ban imposed on SIMI by two more years.\n\nThe Union government has renewed the ban on Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for another five years.\n\nOn 18 May 2014, at Bhopal district court, alleged members who were being produced before the court shouted pro-Taliban slogans saying \"Taliban zindabad\" (long live Taliban) and indicated a threat to designated Prime Minister Narendra Modi with \"Ab Modi ki baari hai\"(It is Modi's turn now) at Bhopal district court.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11112532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11112532", "title": "The Final Judgement to Kroni", "text": "The Final Judgement to Kroni\n\nIn Ayyavazhi mythology, the Nadutheerpu () is the Final Judgement from which Kroni, the primordial Manifestation of Evil was sentenced to hell. During this judgement, his unlawful activities of all the seven previous yugas are remained once again to him and was finally thrown into the hell.\n\nAfter Ayya attained Vaikundam, he sent a false deity who could perform so many miracles for testing the people for their faith. Then Vaikundar was crowned as a King and placed in the 'Thuthi Singasana' - the \"Lion-faced Throne\" by Narayana and all other devas to rule all the fourteen worlds under a \"Single-umbrella\". Being seated in the thrown Vaikundar, ordered the Sea to destroy the evil-beings of the world and contemplated the \"white-beings\" to enter the world. Then Kroni was brought before Vaikundar and was charged for his iniquitous activities.\n"}
{"id": "696196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=696196", "title": "The Flying Nun", "text": "The Flying Nun\n\nThe Flying Nun is an American sitcom produced by Screen Gems for ABC based on the 1965 book \"The Fifteenth Pelican,\" written by Tere Rios. It starred Sally Field as Sister Bertrille. The series originally ran on ABC from September 7, 1967, to September 18, 1970, producing 82 episodes, including a one-hour pilot episode.\n\nDeveloped by Bernard Slade, the series centered on the adventures of a community of nuns in the Convent San Tanco in San Juan, Puerto Rico. The comic elements of the storyline were provided by the flying ability of a novice nun, Sister Bertrille.\n\nIn the hour-long series pilot, Chicago native Elsie Ethrington arrives in San Juan from New York City after her arrest for having been involved in a protest; she then adopts the name of Sister Bertrille. It is also later learned (in the episode \"My Sister, The Sister\") that Sister Bertrille comes from a family of physicians, and that she is the only member of that family who did not follow in their footsteps. She instead became a nun, joining the Convento San Tanco, after being impressed by the missionary work of her aunt, and broke up with her boyfriend of eight months, a toy salesman.\n\nSister Bertrille could be relied upon to solve any problem that came her way by her ability to catch a passing breeze and fly. This was generally attributed to her weighing under 90 pounds (41 kilograms), high winds at the Convent high on the ocean bluffs, and the large, heavily starched cornette that was the headpiece for her habit. (The cornette was based on one worn until the middle 1960s by the Daughters of Charity, although Sister Bertrille was never said to belong to that order. Indeed, the order which included the Convento San Tanco was never actually specified in the series.) Her flying talents caused as many problems as they solved. She explains her ability to fly by stating, \"When lift plus thrust is greater than load plus drag, anything can fly.\" In one episode, she tries to gain weight so she could stay grounded, but the attempt fails. Additionally, in the first-season episode \"Young Man with a Cornette,\" she specifically tells a young boy who intended to use her cornette to fly that there were many factors other than her weight (which was distributed differently than that of the boy) that made her flying possible. She was unable to take off only when heavy rains or storms caused her starched cornette to lose its shape, when she had to wear something that would keep her grounded at all times, or, on one occasion,when an inner ear infection caused her to lose her balance. (See the episode titled \"The Flying Dodo.\")\n\n\nAfter the cancellation of ABC's \"Gidget,\" in which Sally Field starred in the title role, producers sought a way to keep Field on the air. As a result, \"The Flying Nun\" was developed. Field found the concept of the show silly and refused the role at first, only to resettle on it after her stepfather, Jock Mahoney, warned her that she might not work again in show business if she did not accept the role. Screen Gems dismissed its second choice, Ronne Troup, who had already begun filming the pilot. Field recalled hanging from a crane and being humiliated by a parade of episodic television directors, one of whom actually grabbed her shoulders and moved her into position as if she were a prop. She credits co-star Madeleine Sherwood for encouraging her to enroll in acting classes. Field has commented that she has great affection for her young \"Gidget\" persona and was proud of her work on that show, but she has also admitted that she disliked and was embarrassed with \"The Flying Nun.\"\n\nPrior to the production of \"The Flying Nun,\" producers were concerned with how the series would be received by Catholics. In an effort to prevent religious criticism, the National Catholic Office for Radio and Television (NCORT), served as a series adviser with on-screen credit. (The NCORT, like its motion-picture counterpart, the National Catholic Office for Motion Pictures, was ultimately absorbed into the United States Catholic Conference, and both were later merged into the Office for Film and Broadcasting of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, or USCCB.)\nThe San Juan convent courtyard exterior was actually the rear area of a house façade at the Warner Brothers Ranch's suburban street/backlot in Burbank, California, along Hollywood Way north of West Oak Street. However, the pilot episode and the series opening and closing credits were actually filmed on location in Puerto Rico. Serra Retreat Center, Malibu has photos in one of their conference rooms stating the exterior was shot there. On 25 September 1970, the Malibu Canyon Wildfire destroyed the original buildings. \n\nA soundtrack LP featuring songs from the series sung by Sally Field, titled \"Star Of \"The Flying Nun,\"\" was released by Colgems in 1967.\n\nThe series gradually changed comedic gears in its second season, focusing on slapstick and other forms of broad humor, which overzealous but bungling police Captain Gaspar Fomento, played by Vito Scotti, usually fomented. Beginning in the show's third (and final) season, changes were made to revert the series to a \"warm and slightly saccharine\" tone as seen in the first season. Another problem the show's producers had to contend with during its last season was the fact that at the beginning of the filming schedule, Field was noticeably pregnant with her first child. This was a logistical nightmare for a series in which Field's character was supposed to be a religious celibate, and skinny enough to fly away in the wind. The producers solved the problem by using props and scenery to block view of Field's body below the chest, and using long shots of Field's stunt double for the flying sequences.\n\nWhen the show ended, Field starred in another situation comedy, \"The Girl with Something Extra.\" She later turned to doing drama and movies as she wanted to move from comedic roles to serious ones.\n\nDuring its first two seasons, \"The Flying Nun\" aired on Thursday nights at 8:00pm EST, where the series competed in the ratings with \"Daniel Boone.\" The show was an instant hit, with high ratings and was declared the \"hit of the season;\" however, the ratings dropped as the season progressed. During its second year, the series was scheduled against \"Daniel Boone\" and \"Hawaii Five-O.\" During its final season, the series was moved to Wednesday nights at 7:30pm EST, scheduled opposite \"The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour.\" All of the competing shows ranked higher in the ratings than \"The Flying Nun,\" which eventually led to its cancellation. During its two-year run, the series was a part of a three-show comedy block on ABC that also consisted of \"Bewitched\" and \"That Girl.\" Despite its early popularity, the show's ratings never broke the Nielsen top thirty.\n\nBeginning in the summer of 2011, the show was transmitted on weekends on Antenna TV. The complete first season also became available on iTunes.\n\nDespite the show being unpopular with critics, Marge Redmond was nominated for an Emmy Award in the category of Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series for her role as Sister Jacqueline during the 1967–68 season. She lost to Marion Lorne, who won posthumously for her role as \"Aunt Clara\" on \"Bewitched.\"\n\nA series of novels, all based on characters and dialog of the series, were written by William Johnston and published by Ace Books in the 1960s.\n\nSony Pictures Home Entertainment released the first season of \"The Flying Nun\" on March 21, 2006 on DVD in Region 1. This was followed by the release of the show's second season on DVD on August 15, 2006. The third and final season had yet to be released as the month of December 2016 drew to a close.\n\nOn August 27, 2013, it was announced that Mill Creek Entertainment had acquired the rights to various television series from the Sony Pictures library, including \"The Flying Nun.\" They re-released the first and second seasons in a 2-season combo pack DVD on October 7, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "7477335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7477335", "title": "The Giant Buddhas", "text": "The Giant Buddhas\n\nThe Giant Buddhas is a documentary film by Swiss filmmaker Christian Frei about the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamyan in Afghanistan. It was released in March 2006. The movie quotes local Afghans that the destruction was ordered by Osama Bin Laden and that initially, Mullah Omar and the Afghans in Bamyan had opposed the destruction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2225648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2225648", "title": "Una Voce", "text": "Una Voce\n\nThe Foederatio Internationalis Una Voce or simply Una Voce (Latin for \"With One Voice\"; from the preface to the Roman Canon) is an international federation of Catholic lay organizations attached to the Tridentine Mass, colloquially known as \"the Latin Mass\" (though there are several rites, i. e., versions, of Catholic Masses in Latin).\n\nThe \"Foederatio Internationalis Una Voce\" (or FIUV) was founded on December 19, 1964 in Paris by Georges Cerbelaud-Salagnac in order to promote the Tridentine Mass from the Pre-Vatican II \"Missale Romanum\" (1962). The organization argues that while the Second Vatican Council had introduced vernacular liturgies, it did not actually forbid the Latin Mass, and that regular weekday and Sunday Masses in Latin should be maintained. The organization also seeks to promote Latin Gregorian Chant, sacred polyphony and sacred art. Unlike some of the other Catholic traditionalist organizations, Una Voce seeks to remain faithful to the Pope within the Roman Catholic Church, and asserts that the Tridentine and the vernacular masses should be allowed to co-exist. Among its prominent early members were the composers Maurice Duruflé and Olivier Messiaen.\n\nA number of national associations developed during 1964 and 1965, and in 1966 an international association, the \"Foederatio Internationalis Una Voce\" was formed. It currently has over two dozen national affiliates.\n\nFIUV members value the traditional Latin Mass as direct link with the early Church and for conveying the mystery and majesty of God, but have been critiqued for elitism and for its emphasis on private religious devotion. The group has been described as an \"arch-conservative\" organization by Episcopal Church organist James E Frazier. Traditionalist Catholics usually uphold orthodox Catholic moral teaching on abortion, contraception and marriage. However, members of the FIUV reject comparisons to fundamentalism.\n\nFIUV was enthusiastic about the election of Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger as the Pope in 2005. He took the name of Benedict XVI. He had spoken at a conference, and had praised FIUV's role in supporting the use of the Roman Missal within the guidelines set out by the Vatican. The organization's influence at the highest levels of the Vatican has led to the authorization of the Tridentine Mass without specific permission or indult by local bishops, and the wider implementation of the motu proprio, \"Summorum Pontificum\".\n\nThe International Federation represents 41 member associations in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Colombia, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, England and Wales, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Russia, Scotland, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Ukraine and the USA. Since 2010 the International Federation has made remarkable progress. Requests for information and assistance have come from Denmark, Honduras, Hungary, Indonesia, Kenya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Panama,Taiwan, Sarawak (Malaysian Borneo), Slovenia and South Korea.\n\nAt the XXII General Assembly, held in Rome the 25 October 2015, the Council was elected and constituted as follows:\n\n"}
