{"id": "39134375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39134375", "title": "AIDS photo diary, 1986–1990", "text": "AIDS photo diary, 1986–1990\n\nAIDS photo diary, 1986–1990 is an art work that comprises a photo diary that records the decline in health and eventual death of David Tosh, from AIDS from 1986 to 1990 in Sydney, Australia. The diary – with accompanying photographs taken by John Jenner – was created by Jenner to remember his friend and honour the lives of people living with HIV/AIDS. Some of the images were featured in an article in \"Sydney Morning Herald\"s \"Good Weekend\" magazine, 13 October 1990, pp. 20–29.\n\nThe work includes photographs by John Jenner from 1986 to 1990, together with a biography in the form of a play written by Jenner. The diary also includes poems by Willy Barber.\n\nThis diary was one of a number of artistic responses to HIV/AIDS in Australia at a time when medications that could prolong and enhance the quality of life of those living with HIV had not been developed. David Tosh died on 3 May 1990. In 1990 Australia experienced 2381 cases of AIDS as reported by the National Centre in HIV Epidemiology and Clinical Research. 97% of these cases were male and the survival rate was only 40%.\n\nThe diary was exhibited in the \"100 Objects Exhibition\" at the State Library of New South Wales in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2834", "title": "A Vindication of the Rights of Woman", "text": "A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\n\nA Vindication of the Rights of Woman: with Strictures on Political and Moral Subjects (1792), written by the 18th-century British proto-feminist Mary Wollstonecraft, is one of the earliest works of feminist philosophy. In it, Wollstonecraft responds to those educational and political theorists of the 18th century who did not believe women should have an education. She argues that women ought to have an education commensurate with their position in society, claiming that women are essential to the nation because they educate its children and because they could be \"companions\" to their husbands, rather than mere wives. Instead of viewing women as ornaments to society or property to be traded in marriage, Wollstonecraft maintains that they are human beings deserving of the same fundamental rights as men.\n\nWollstonecraft was prompted to write the \"Rights of Woman\" after reading Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord's 1791 report to the French National Assembly, which stated that women should only receive a domestic education; she used her commentary on this specific event to launch a broad attack against sexual double standards and to indict men for encouraging women to indulge in excessive emotion. Wollstonecraft wrote the \"Rights of Woman\" hurriedly to respond directly to ongoing events; she intended to write a more thoughtful second volume but died before completing it.\n\nWhile Wollstonecraft does call for equality between the sexes in particular areas of life, such as morality, she does not explicitly state that men and women are equal. Her ambiguous statements regarding the equality of the sexes have since made it difficult to classify Wollstonecraft as a modern feminist, particularly since the word and the concept were unavailable to her. Although it is commonly assumed now that the \"Rights of Woman\" was unfavourably received, this is a modern misconception based on the belief that Wollstonecraft was as reviled during her lifetime as she became after the publication of William Godwin's \"Memoirs of the Author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1798). The \"Rights of Woman\" was actually well received when it was first published in 1792. One biographer has called it \"perhaps the most original book of [Wollstonecraft's] century\".\n\n\"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" was written against the tumultuous background of the French Revolution and the debates that it spawned in Britain. In a lively and sometimes vicious pamphlet war, now referred to as the \"Revolution controversy\", British political commentators addressed topics ranging from representative government to human rights to the separation of church and state, many of these issues having been raised in France first. Wollstonecraft first entered this fray in 1790 with \"A Vindication of the Rights of Men\", a response to Edmund Burke's \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790). In his \"Reflections\", Burke criticized the view of many British thinkers and writers who had welcomed the early stages of the French revolution. While they saw the revolution as analogous to Britain's own Glorious Revolution in 1688, which had restricted the powers of the monarchy, Burke argued that the appropriate historical analogy was the English Civil War (1642–1651) in which Charles I had been executed in 1649. He viewed the French revolution as the violent overthrow of a legitimate government. In \"Reflections\" he argues that citizens do not have the right to revolt against their government because civilization is the result of social and political consensus; its traditions cannot be continually challenged—the result would be anarchy. One of the key arguments of Wollstonecraft's \"Rights of Men\", published just six weeks after Burke's \"Reflections\", is that rights cannot be based on tradition; rights, she argues, should be conferred because they are reasonable and just, regardless of their basis in tradition.\n\nWhen Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord presented his \"Rapport sur l'instruction publique\" (1791) to the National Assembly in France, Wollstonecraft was galvanized to respond. In his recommendations for a national system of education, Talleyrand had written:\n\nLet us bring up women, not to aspire to advantages which the Constitution denies them, but to know and appreciate those which it guarantees them . . . Men are destined to live on the stage of the world. A public education suits them: it early places before their eyes all the scenes of life: only the proportions are different. The paternal home is better for the education of women; they have less need to learn to deal with the interests of others, than to accustom themselves to a calm and secluded life.\nWollstonecraft dedicated the \"Rights of Woman\" to Talleyrand: \"Having read with great pleasure a pamphlet which you have lately published, I dedicate this volume to you; to induce you to reconsider the subject, and maturely weigh what I have advanced respecting the rights of woman and national education.\" At the end of 1791, French feminist Olympe de Gouges had published her \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\", and the question of women's rights became central to political debates in both France and Britain.\n\nThe \"Rights of Woman\" is an extension of Wollstonecraft's arguments in the \"Rights of Men\". In the \"Rights of Men\", as the title suggests, she is concerned with the rights of particular men (18th-century British men) while in the \"Rights of Woman\", she is concerned with the rights afforded to \"woman\", an abstract category. She does not isolate her argument to 18th-century women or British women. The first chapter of the \"Rights of Woman\" addresses the issue of natural rights and asks who has those inalienable rights and on what grounds. She answers that since natural rights are given by God, for one segment of society to deny them to another segment is a sin. \"The Rights of Woman\" thus engages not only specific events in France and in Britain but also larger questions being raised by political philosophers such as John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau.\n\nWollstonecraft did not employ the formal argumentation or logical prose style common to 18th-century philosophical writing when composing her own works. The \"Rights of Woman\" is a long essay that introduces all of its major topics in the opening chapters and then repeatedly returns to them, each time from a different point of view. It also adopts a hybrid tone that combines rational argument with the fervent rhetoric of sensibility.\n\nIn the 18th century, \"sensibility\" was a physical phenomenon that came to be attached to a specific set of moral beliefs. Physicians and anatomists believed that the more sensitive people's nerves, the more emotionally affected they would be by their surroundings. Since women were thought to have keener nerves than men, it was also believed that women were more emotional than men. The emotional excess associated with sensibility also theoretically produced an ethic of compassion: those with sensibility could easily sympathise with people in pain. Thus historians have credited the discourse of sensibility and those who promoted it with the increased humanitarian efforts, such as the movement to abolish the slave trade. But sensibility also paralysed those who had too much of it; as scholar G. J. Barker-Benfield explains, \"an innate refinement of nerves was also identifiable with greater suffering, with weakness, and a susceptibility to disorder\".\n\nBy the time Wollstonecraft was writing the \"Rights of Woman\", sensibility had already been under sustained attack for a number of years. Sensibility, which had initially promised to draw individuals together through sympathy, was now viewed as \"profoundly separatist\"; novels, plays, and poems that employed the language of sensibility asserted individual rights, sexual freedom, and unconventional familial relationships based only upon feeling. Furthermore, as Janet Todd, another scholar of sensibility, argues, \"to many in Britain the cult of sensibility seemed to have feminized the nation, given women undue prominence, and emasculated men.\"\n\nOne of Wollstonecraft's central arguments in the \"Rights of Woman\" is that women should be educated in a rational manner to give them the opportunity to contribute to society. In the 18th century, it was often assumed by both educational philosophers and conduct book writers, who wrote what one might think of as early self-help books, that women were incapable of rational or abstract thought. Women, it was believed, were too susceptible to sensibility and too fragile to be able to think clearly. Wollstonecraft, along with other female reformers such as Catharine Macaulay and Hester Chapone, maintained that women were indeed capable of rational thought and deserved to be educated. She argued this point in her own conduct book, \"Thoughts on the Education of Daughters\" (1787), in her children's book, \"Original Stories from Real Life\" (1788), as well as in the \"Rights of Woman\".\n\nStating in her preface that \"my main argument is built on this simple principle, that if [woman] be not prepared by education to become the companion of man, she will stop the progress of knowledge and virtue; for truth must be common to all\", Wollstonecraft contends that society will degenerate without educated women, particularly because mothers are the primary educators of young children. She attributes the problem of uneducated women to men and \"a false system of education, gathered from the books written on this subject by men who [consider] females rather as women than human creatures\". Women are capable of rationality; it only appears that they are not, because men have refused to educate them and encouraged them to be frivolous (Wollstonecraft describes silly women as \"spaniels\" and \"toys\"). While stressing it is of the same kind, she entertains the notion that women might not be able to attain the same degree of knowledge that men do.\n\nWollstonecraft attacks conduct book writers such as James Fordyce and John Gregory as well as educational philosophers such as Jean-Jacques Rousseau who argue that a woman does not need a rational education. (Rousseau famously argues in \"\" (1762) that women should be educated for the pleasure of men; Wollstonecraft, infuriated by this argument, attacks not only it but also Rousseau himself.) Intent on illustrating the limitations that contemporary educational theory placed upon women, Wollstonecraft writes, \"taught from their infancy that beauty is woman's sceptre, the mind shapes itself to the body, and, roaming round its gilt cage, only seeks to adorn its prison\", implying that without this damaging ideology, which encourages young women to focus their attention on beauty and outward accomplishments, they could achieve much more. Wives could be the rational \"companions\" of their husbands and even pursue careers should they so choose: \"women might certainly study the art of healing, and be physicians as well as nurses. And midwifery, decency seems to allot to them . . . they might, also, study politics . . . Business of various kinds, they might likewise pursue.\"\n\nFor Wollstonecraft, \"the most perfect education\" is \"an exercise of the understanding as is best calculated to strengthen the body and form the heart. Or, in other words, to enable the individual to attach such habits of virtue as will render it independent.\" In addition to her broad philosophical arguments, Wollstonecraft lays out a specific plan for national education to counter Talleyrand's. In Chapter 12, \"On National Education,\" she proposes that children be sent to day schools as well as given some education at home \"to inspire a love of home and domestic pleasures,\" and that such schools be free for children \"five to nine years of age.\" She also maintains that schooling should be co-educational, contending that men and women, whose marriages are \"the cement of society,\" should be \"educated after the same model.\"\n\nIt is debatable to what extent the \"Rights of Woman\" is a feminist text; because the definitions of \"feminist\" vary, different scholars have come to different conclusions. Wollstonecraft would never have referred to her text as feminist because the words \"feminist\" and \"feminism\" were not coined until the 1890s. Moreover, there was no feminist movement to speak of during Wollstonecraft's lifetime. In the introduction to her seminal work on Wollstonecraft's thought, Barbara Taylor writes:\n\nDescribing [Wollstonecraft's philosophy] as feminist is problematic, and I do it only after much consideration. The label is of course anachronistic . . . Treating Wollstonecraft's thought as an anticipation of nineteenth and twentieth-century feminist argument has meant sacrificing or distorting some of its key elements. Leading examples of this . . . have been the widespread neglect of her religious beliefs, and the misrepresentation of her as a bourgeois liberal, which together have resulted in the displacement of a religiously inspired utopian radicalism by a secular, class-partisan reformism as alien to Wollstonecraft's political project as her dream of a divinely promised age of universal happiness is to our own. Even more important however has been the imposition on Wollstonecraft of a heroic-individualist brand of politics utterly at odds with her own ethically driven case for women's emancipation. Wollstonecraft's leading ambition for women was that they should attain virtue, and it was to this end that she sought their liberation.\n\nIn the \"Rights of Woman\", Wollstonecraft does not make the claim for gender equality using the same arguments or the same language that late 19th- and 20th century feminists later would. For instance, rather than unequivocally stating that men and women are equal, Wollstonecraft contends that men and women are equal in the eyes of God, which means that they are both subject to the same moral law. For Wollstonecraft, men and women are equal in the most important areas of life. While such an idea may not seem revolutionary to 21st-century readers, its implications were revolutionary during the 18th century. For example, it implied that both men and women—not just women—should be modest and respect the sanctity of marriage. Wollstonecraft's argument exposed the sexual double standard of the late 18th century and demanded that men adhere to the same virtues demanded of women.\n\nHowever, Wollstonecraft's arguments for equality stand in contrast to her statements respecting the superiority of masculine strength and valour. Wollstonecraft famously and ambiguously states:\n\nLet it not be concluded, that I wish to invert the order of things; I have already granted, that, from the constitution of their bodies, men seem to be designed by Providence to attain a greater degree of virtue. I speak collectively of the whole sex; but I see not the shadow of a reason to conclude that their virtues should differ in respect to their nature. In fact, how can they, if virtue has only one eternal standard? I must therefore, if I reason consequentially, as strenuously maintain that they have the same simple direction, as that there is a God.\nMoreover, Wollstonecraft calls on men, rather than women, to initiate the social and political changes she outlines in the \"Rights of Woman\". Because women are uneducated, they cannot alter their own situation—men must come to their aid. Wollstonecraft writes at the end of her chapter \"Of the Pernicious Effects Which Arise from the Unnatural Distinctions Established in Society\":\n\nI then would fain convince reasonable men of the importance of some of my remarks; and prevail on them to weigh dispassionately the whole tenor of my observations. – I appeal to their understandings; and, as a fellow-creature, claim, in the name of my sex, some interest in their hearts. I entreat them to assist to emancipate their companion, to make her a help meet for them! Would men but generously snap our chains, and be content with rational fellowship instead of slavish obedience, they would find us more observant daughters, more affectionate sisters, more faithful wives, more reasonable mothers – in a word, better citizens.\n\nIt is Wollstonecraft's last novel, \"\" (1798), the fictionalized sequel to the \"Rights of Woman\", that is usually considered her most radical feminist work.\n\nOne of Wollstonecraft's most scathing criticisms in the \"Rights of Woman\" is against false and excessive sensibility, particularly in women. She argues that women who succumb to sensibility are \"blown about by every momentary gust of feeling\"; because these women are \"the prey of their senses\", they cannot think rationally. In fact, not only do they do harm to themselves but they also do harm to all of civilization: these are not women who can refine civilization – these are women who will destroy it. But reason and feeling are not independent for Wollstonecraft; rather, she believes that they should inform each other. For Wollstonecraft, as for the important 18th-century philosopher David Hume, the passions underpin all reason. This was a theme that she would return to throughout her career, but particularly in her novels \"\" (1788) and \"\".\n\nAs part of her argument that women should not be overly influenced by their feelings, Wollstonecraft emphasises that they should not be constrained by or made slaves to their bodies or their sexual feelings. This particular argument has led many modern feminists to suggest that Wollstonecraft intentionally avoids granting women any sexual desire. Cora Kaplan argues that the \"negative and prescriptive assault on female sexuality\" is a \"leitmotif\" of the \"Rights of Woman\". For example, Wollstonecraft advises her readers to \"calmly let passion subside into friendship\" in the ideal companionate marriage (that is, in the ideal of a love-based marriage that was developing at the time). It would be better, she writes, when \"two virtuous young people marry . . . if some circumstances checked their passion\". According to Wollstonecraft, \"love and friendship cannot subsist in the same bosom\". As Mary Poovey explains, \"Wollstonecraft betrays her fear that female desire might in fact court man's lascivious and degrading attentions, that the subordinate position women have been given might even be deserved. Until women can transcend their fleshly desires and fleshly forms, they will be hostage to the body.\" If women are not interested in sexuality, they cannot be dominated by men. Wollstonecraft worries that women are consumed with \"romantic wavering\", that is, they are interested only in satisfying their lusts. Because the \"Rights of Woman\" eliminates sexuality from a woman's life, Kaplan contends, it \"expresses a violent antagonism to the sexual\" while at the same time \"exaggerat[ing] the importance of the sensual in the everyday life of women\". Wollstonecraft was so determined to wipe sexuality from her picture of the ideal woman that she ended up foregrounding it by insisting upon its absence. But as Kaplan and others have remarked, Wollstonecraft may have been forced to make this sacrifice: \"it is important to remember that the notion of woman as politically enabled and independent [was] fatally linked [during the eighteenth century] to the unrestrained and vicious exercise of her sexuality.\"\n\nClaudia Johnson, a prominent Wollstonecraft scholar, has called the \"Rights of Woman\" \"a republican manifesto\". Johnson contends that Wollstonecraft is hearkening back to the Commonwealth tradition of the 17th century and attempting to reestablish a republican ethos. In Wollstonecraft's version, there would be strong, but separate, masculine and feminine roles for citizens. According to Johnson, Wollstonecraft \"denounces the collapse of proper sexual distinction as the leading feature of her age, and as the grievous consequence of sentimentality itself. The problem undermining society in her view is feminized men\". If men feel free to adopt both the masculine position and the sentimental feminine position, she argues, women have no position open to them in society. Johnson therefore sees Wollstonecraft as a critic, in both the \"Rights of Men\" and the \"Rights of Woman\", of the \"masculinization of sensitivity\" in such works as Edmund Burke's \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\".\n\nIn the \"Rights of Woman\" Wollstonecraft adheres to a version of republicanism that includes a belief in the eventual overthrow of all titles, including the monarchy. She also briefly suggests that all men and women should be represented in government. But the bulk of her \"political criticism,\" as Chris Jones, a Wollstonecraft scholar, explains, \"is couched predominantly in terms of morality\". Her definition of virtue focuses on the individual's happiness rather than, for example, the good of the entire society. This is reflected in her explanation of natural rights. Because rights ultimately proceed from God, Wollstonecraft maintains that there are duties, tied to those rights, incumbent upon each and every person. For Wollstonecraft, the individual is taught republicanism and benevolence within the family; domestic relations and familial ties are crucial to her understanding of social cohesion and patriotism.\n\nIn many ways the \"Rights of Woman\" is inflected by a bourgeois view of the world, as is its direct predecessor the \"Rights of Men\". Wollstonecraft addresses her text to the middle class, which she calls the \"most natural state\". She also frequently praises modesty and industry, virtues which, at the time, were associated with the middle class. From her position as a middle-class writer arguing for a middle-class ethos, Wollstonecraft also attacks the wealthy, criticizing them using the same arguments she employs against women. She points out the \"false-refinement, immorality, and vanity\" of the rich, calling them \"weak, artificial beings, raised above the common wants and affections of their race, in a premature unnatural manner [who] undermine the very foundation of virtue, and spread corruption through the whole mass of society\".\n\nBut Wollstonecraft's criticisms of the wealthy do not necessarily reflect a concomitant sympathy for the poor. For her, the poor are fortunate because they will never be trapped by the snares of wealth: \"Happy is it when people have the cares of life to struggle with; for these struggles prevent their becoming a prey to enervating vices, merely from idleness!\" Moreover, she contends that charity has only negative consequences because, as Jones puts it, she \"sees it as sustaining an unequal society while giving the appearance of virtue to the rich\".\n\nIn her national plan for education, she retains class distinctions (with an exception for the intelligent), suggesting that: \"After the age of nine, girls and boys, intended for domestic employments, or mechanical trades, ought to be removed to other schools, and receive instruction, in some measure appropriated to the destination of each individual . . . The young people of superior abilities, or fortune, might now be taught, in another school, the dead and living languages, the elements of science, and continue the study of history and politics, on a more extensive scale, which would not exclude polite literature.\"\n\nIn attempting to navigate the cultural expectations of female writers and the generic conventions of political and philosophical discourse, Wollstonecraft, as she does throughout her \"oeuvre\", constructs a unique blend of masculine and feminine styles in the \"Rights of Woman\". She uses the language of philosophy, referring to her work as a \"treatise\" with \"arguments\" and \"principles\". However, Wollstonecraft also uses a personal tone, employing \"I\" and \"you\", dashes and exclamation marks, and autobiographical references to create a distinctly feminine voice in the text. The \"Rights of Woman\" further hybridizes its genre by weaving together elements of the conduct book, the short essay, and the novel, genres often associated with women, while at the same time claiming that these genres could be used to discuss philosophical topics such as rights.\n\nAlthough Wollstonecraft argues against excessive sensibility, the rhetoric of the \"Rights of Woman\" is at times heated and attempts to provoke the reader. Many of the most emotional comments in the book are directed at Rousseau. For example, after excerpting a long passage from \"\" (1762), Wollstonecraft pithily states, \"I shall make no other comments on this ingenious passage, than just to observe, that it is the philosophy of lasciviousness.\" A mere page later, after indicting Rousseau's plan for female education, she writes \"I must relieve myself by drawing another picture.\" These terse exclamations are meant to draw the reader to her side of the argument (it is assumed that the reader will agree with them). While she claims to write in a plain style so that her ideas will reach the broadest possible audience, she actually combines the plain, rational language of the political treatise with the poetic, passionate language of sensibility to demonstrate that one can combine rationality and sensibility in the same self. Wollstonecraft defends her positions not only with reasoned argument but also with ardent rhetoric.\n\nIn her efforts to vividly describe the condition of women within society, Wollstonecraft employs several different analogies. She often compares women to slaves, arguing that their ignorance and powerlessness places them in that position. But at the same time, she also compares them to \"capricious tyrants\" who use cunning and deceit to manipulate the men around them. At one point, she reasons that a woman can become either a slave or tyrant, which she describes as two sides of the same coin. Wollstonecraft also compares women to soldiers; like military men, they are valued only for their appearance and obedience. And like the rich, women's \"softness\" has \"debased mankind\".\n\nWollstonecraft was forced to write the \"Rights of Woman\" hurriedly to respond to Talleyrand and ongoing events. Upon completing the work, she wrote to her friend William Roscoe: \"I am dissatisfied with myself for not having done justice to the subject. – Do not suspect me of false modesty – I mean to say that had I allowed myself more time I could have written a better book, in every sense of the word . . . I intend to finish the next volume before I begin to print, for it is not pleasant to have the Devil coming for the conclusion of a sheet fore it is written.\" When Wollstonecraft revised the \"Rights of Woman\" for the second edition, she took the opportunity not only to fix small spelling and grammar mistakes but also to bolster the feminist claims of her argument. She changed some of her statements regarding female and male difference to reflect a greater equality between the sexes.\n\nWollstonecraft never wrote the second part to the \"Rights of Woman,\" although William Godwin published her \"Hints\", which were \"chiefly designed to have been incorporated in the second part of the \"Vindication of the Rights of Woman\"\", in the posthumous collection of her works. However, she did begin writing the novel \"\", which most scholars consider a fictionalized sequel to the \"Rights of Woman\". It was unfinished at her death and also included in the \"Posthumous Works\" published by Godwin.\n\nWhen it was first published in 1792, the \"Rights of Woman\" was reviewed favourably by the \"Analytical Review\", the \"General Magazine\", the \"Literary Magazine\", \"New York Magazine\", and the \"Monthly Review\", although the assumption persists even today that \"Rights of Woman\" received hostile reviews. It was almost immediately released in a second edition in 1792, several American editions appeared, and it was translated into French. Taylor writes that \"it was an immediate success\". Moreover, other writers such as Mary Hays and Mary Robinson specifically alluded to Wollstonecraft's text in their own works. Hays cited the \"Rights of Woman\" in her novel \"Memoirs of Emma Courtney\" (1796) and modelled her female characters after Wollstonecraft's ideal woman.\n\nAlthough female conservatives such as Hannah More excoriated Wollstonecraft personally, they actually shared many of the same values. As the scholar Anne Mellor has shown, both More and Wollstonecraft wanted a society founded on \"Christian virtues of rational benevolence, honesty, personal virtue, the fulfillment of social duty, thrift, sobriety, and hard work\". During the early 1790s, many writers within British society were engaged in an intense debate regarding the position of women in society. For example, the respected poet and essayist Anna Laetitia Barbauld and Wollstonecraft sparred back and forth; Barbauld published several poems responding to Wollstonecraft's work and Wollstonecraft commented on them in footnotes to the \"Rights of Woman\". The work also provoked outright hostility. The bluestocking Elizabeth Carter was unimpressed with the work. Thomas Taylor, the Neoplatonist translator who had been a landlord to the Wollstonecraft family in the late 1770s, swiftly wrote a satire called \"A Vindication of the Rights of Brutes\": if women have rights, why not animals too?\n\nAfter Wollstonecraft died in 1797, her husband William Godwin published his \"Memoirs of the Author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1798). He revealed much about her private life that had previously not been known to the public: her illegitimate child, her love affairs, and her attempts at suicide. While Godwin believed he was portraying his wife with love, sincerity, and compassion, contemporary readers were shocked by Wollstonecraft's unorthodox lifestyle and she became a reviled figure. Richard Polwhele targeted her in particular in his anonymous long poem \"The Unsex'd Females\" (1798), a defensive reaction to women's literary self-assertion: Hannah More is Christ to Wollstonecraft's Satan. His poem was \"well known\" among the responses \"A Vindication\". One reviewer comments this \"ingenious poem\" with its \"playful sallies of sarcastic wit\" against \"our modern ladies,\" though others found it \"a tedious, lifeless piece of writing.\" Critical responses largely fell along clear-cut political lines.\n\nWollstonecraft's ideas became associated with her life story and women writers felt that it was dangerous to mention her in their texts. Hays, who had previously been a close friend and an outspoken advocate for Wollstonecraft and her \"Rights of Woman\", for example, did not include her in the collection of \"Illustrious and Celebrated Women\" she published in 1803. Maria Edgeworth specifically distances herself from Wollstonecraft in her novel \"Belinda\" (1802); she caricatures Wollstonecraft as a radical feminist in the character of Harriet Freke. But, like Jane Austen, she does not reject Wollstonecraft's ideas. Both Edgeworth and Austen argue that women are crucial to the development of the nation; moreover, they portray women as rational beings who should choose companionate marriage.\n\nThe negative views towards Wollstonecraft persisted for over a century. The \"Rights of Woman\" was not reprinted until the middle of the 19th century and it still retained an aura of ill-repute. George Eliot wrote \"there is in some quarters a vague prejudice against the \"Rights of Woman\" as in some way or other a reprehensible book, but readers who go to it with this impression will be surprised to find it eminently serious, severely moral, and withal rather heavy\".\nThe suffragist (i.e. moderate reformer, as opposed to suffragette) Millicent Garrett Fawcett wrote the introduction to the centenary edition of the \"Rights of Woman\", cleansing the memory of Wollstonecraft and claiming her as the foremother of the struggle for the vote. While the \"Rights of Woman\" may have paved the way for feminist arguments, 20th century feminists have tended to use Wollstonecraft's life story, rather than her texts, for inspiration; her unorthodox lifestyle convinced them to try new \"experiments in living\", as Virginia Woolf termed it in her famous essay on Wollstonecraft. However, there is some evidence that the \"Rights of Woman\" may be influencing current feminists. Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a feminist who is critical of Islam's dictates regarding women, cites the \"Rights of Woman\" in her autobiography \"Infidel\", writing that she was \"inspired by Mary Wollstonecraft, the pioneering feminist thinker who told women they had the same ability to reason as men did and deserved the same rights\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3612839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3612839", "title": "Afghan (blanket)", "text": "Afghan (blanket)\n\nAn afghan is a woollen blanket or shawl, usually knitted or crocheted. It is sometimes also called a \"throw\" of indeterminate size. Afghans are often used as bedspreads, or as a decoration on the back of couches or chairs.\n\nThe word \"afghan\" refers to the people of Central Asia. The use of \"afghan\" in the English language goes back to 1831, when Thomas Carlyle mentioned it in his \"Sartor Resartus\". The first mention of the word referring to the woven rug was in 1877.\n\nThere are many styles of afghans:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27383420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27383420", "title": "Anthropological Survey of India", "text": "Anthropological Survey of India\n\nAnthropological Survey of India (AnSI) is the apex Indian government organisation involved in anthropological studies and field data research for human and cultural aspects, working primarily in the fields of physical anthropology and cultural anthropology. While maintaining a strong focus on indigenous populations, it also attempts to document the cultures of other communities and religious groups.\n\nAnthropological Research in India was founded 1945 in Varanasi and shifted to the Indian Museum at Calcutta in 1948.\n\nIn 1916, the Zoological and Anthropological sections of the Museum together became a new entity the Zoological Survey of India. Later, in 1945, the Anthropology section formed into an independent body, the Anthropological Survey of India (AnSI), with Biraja Sankar Guha as the initial director and Verrier Elwin, Deputy Director.\n\nOperating under the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, it is headquartered in Kolkata and has branches in Port Blair (Andaman and Nicobar), Shillong, Dehra Dun, Udaipur, Nagpur (with Central Library of AnSI), and Mysore (established in 1960), in addition to two field stations at Jagdalpur in Bastar district, Chhattisgarh and at Ranchi, Jharkhand. The Central Museum of AnSI is located at Kolkata, whereas Zonal Anthropological Museums are at six regional centres and one sub-regional centres.\n\n"}
{"id": "36045523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36045523", "title": "Apse of Santa Maria, Àneu", "text": "Apse of Santa Maria, Àneu\n\nThe Apse of Santa María d'Àneu is a romanesque apse of the church of Santa Maria, Àneu, the transferred frescos from which are now exhibited at Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya, in Barcelona.\nThe decoration of the apse of the church of Santa María d’Àneu combines themes and motifs from the Old and New Testaments. Originally painted at the Church of Santa María d’Àneu (La Guingueta d’Àneu, Lleida)\n\nThe church of Santa María d'Àneu is located in the upper valley of the Noguera Pallaresa, Pyrenees mountain region. The building once belonged to a Benedictine Monastery, it is divided into a nave and aisles by six pairs of piers, taking the shape of a cross. The east end concludes in three semicircular apses, the central apse was decorated with frescoes.\n\nSanta Maria in Àneu was the most important church in the Àneu Valley and belonged to the cathedral chapter of Urgell. From the stylistic circle of Pedret, of Lombardic influence, the decoration of the apse reveals the existence of an elaborate iconographic and theological programme setting off the prophetic hopes of the Old Testament—that is, hope in the coming of a Messiah who was to redeem humanity—against fulfillment of the prophecies—that is, the coming of the Messiah announced by the prophets. Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya dates the original work at the end of 11th century – beginning of 12th century. However, there is speculation that the paintings were completed at the beginning of the 13th century at the time when Romanesque styles were breaking down and Gothic Art was coming of age.\n\nThe iconography of the painting is suggestive of the Old Testament through the presence of the prophets in reverential attitudes. In the vault portion of the apse, the Epiphany or Adoration of the Magi is represented, with Mary, Jesus, and the three eastern kings baring gifts. Wheels of fire from Jehovah’s chariot are depicted in the lower register, conforming to Ezekiel’s vision. To the right and left are the archangels Michael and Gabriel holding banners and scrolls with the inscription PETICIVS and POSTVLATIVS. Bordering the central window of the lower zones are two six-winged seraphim, in their hands they hold live coals with tongs which they place in the mouths of two crouching figures. In the left lower zone, there are two tonsured (meaning scalp has been shaved) figures who might be Saints Benedict and Bernard or one of them might be a portrait of a local deacon on account of the realism in the face of the figure. The theory that these figures are patrons of the church is strengthened by the discovery of similar figures in related frescoes at the monastery of Saint Peter of Berga. The third archangel, Raphael, does not appear with the others in the semidome but in the lower section.\n\nAt the bottom is the announcement, the biblical prophecy, represented by means of combined images of the visions of Isaiah and Ezequiel. In keeping with the first, two magnificent seraphim with three pairs of wings each purify the mouth of the\nprophets with glowing embers which they are holding with tongs. Next to them are the prophets, represented with their hands together in an attitude of reverence.\n\nAt the same time, the seraphim intone the Trisagion, or song of praise to the Lord, represented by the letters SCS, SCS, SCS, which mean ‘holy, holy, holy’. From this moment, the word of the prophets will be the word of God. Beneath the central\nwindow are the wheels of fire of Yahweh’s chariot, described in Ezequiel’s vision, which symbolise the presence of the Lord. On the vault was the Virgin and Child, representing the accomplishment of the prophecies, in the scene from Epiphany,\nwith two archangels, Michael and Gabriel, patrons of sinners, in a representation very similar to that in the apse from Santa Maria in Cap d'Aran (The Cloisters, New York). A third archangel, Raphael, is represented on the right of the semicylinder,\nperhaps as the introducer of the two donor clergymen who appear on the left of the apse.\n\nThe frescoes are attributed to the Circle of the Master of Pedret. The Master of Pedret was the first significant painter of the Catalon Romanesque period and is named for the wall paintings at the church of San Quirze de Pedret in Berga. The Apse at Aneu represents the end of a tradition, during this time the painter might have felt himself at liberty to relax old rules and abandon strict division into zones, therefore filling the bottom section not with lines of Apostles, but with less rigid elements of the prophetic vision.\n\nThe Àneu frescos make a complete break with the normal Catalan artistic scheme. The lower zone is unique and unrelated to the upper portion of the apse. The Byzantine influence appears to be strong in the style of the frescos, the seraphim have been noted to resemble those in the crypt at the cathedral of Anagni, near Rome. In addition there are touches of pure realism, this is seen in the details such as the unshaven face of the figure at the left of the lower register and the thin and deeply wrinkled face of Magus. The painting could represent direct borrowings from Byzantium or importations from Byzantine Art via Lombardy, Italy. This influence is shown in the costume of the Wise Men (or Maji) which is representative of the eastern court. Other features linking the artwork to Italy are the decorative border, simulated drapery (they have waves and circular medallions), and the geometrical border is similar to the one in the Roman church of San Carlo in Prugiasco (Switzerland).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9410290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9410290", "title": "Art in the Protestant Reformation and Counter-Reformation", "text": "Art in the Protestant Reformation and Counter-Reformation\n\nThe Protestant Reformation during the 16th century in Europe almost entirely rejected the existing tradition of Catholic art, and very often destroyed as much of it as it could reach. A new artistic tradition developed, producing far smaller quantities of art that followed Protestant agendas and diverged drastically from the southern European tradition and the humanist art produced during the High Renaissance. The Lutheran churches, as they developed, accepted a limited role for larger works of art in churches, and also encouraged prints and book illustrations. Calvinists remained steadfastly opposed to art in churches, and suspicious of small printed images of religious subjects, though generally fully accepting secular images in their homes. \n\nIn turn, the Catholic Counter-Reformation both reacted against and responded to Protestant criticisms of art in Roman Catholicism to produce a more stringent style of Catholic art. Protestant religious art both embraced Protestant values and assisted in the proliferation of Protestantism, but the amount of religious art produced in Protestant countries was hugely reduced. Artists in Protestant countries diversified into secular forms of art like history painting, landscape painting, portrait painting and still life.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation was a religious movement that occurred in Western Europe during the 16th century that resulted in a divide in Christianity between Roman Catholics and Protestants. This movement \"created a North-South split in Europe, where generally Northern countries became Protestant, while Southern countries remained Catholic.\"\n\nThe Reformation produced two main branches of Protestantism; one was the Evangelical Lutheran churches, which followed the teachings of Martin Luther, and the other the Reformed Churches, which followed the ideas of John Calvin and Huldrych Zwingli. Out of these branches grew three main sects, the Lutheran tradition, as well as the Continental Reformed and Anglican traditions, the latter two following the Reformed (Calvinist) faith. Lutherans and Reformed Christians had different views regarding religious imagery.\n\nMartin Luther in Germany allowed and encouraged the display of a restricted range of religious imagery in churches, seeing the Evangelical Lutheran Church as a continuation of the \"ancient, apostolic church\". The use of images was one of the issues where Luther strongly opposed the more radical Andreas Karlstadt. For a few years Lutheran altarpieces like the \"Last Supper\" by the younger Cranach were produced in Germany, especially by Luther's friend Lucas Cranach, to replace Catholic ones, often containing portraits of leading reformers as the apostles or other protagonists, but retaining the traditional depiction of Jesus. As such, \"Lutheran worship became a complex ritual choreography set in a richly furnished church interior.\" Lutherans proudly employed the use of the crucifix as it highlighted their high view of the Theology of the Cross. Stories grew up of \"indestructible\" images of Luther, that had survived fires, by divine intervention. Thus, for Lutherans, \"the Reformation renewed rather than removed the religious image.\"\n\nOn the other hand there was a wave of iconoclasm, or the destruction of religious imagery. This began very early in the Reformation, when students in Erfurt destroyed a wooden altar in the Franciscan friary in December 1521. Later, Reformed Christianity showed consistent hostility to religious images, as idolatry, especially sculpture and large paintings. Book illustrations and prints were more acceptable, because they were smaller and more private. Reformed leaders, especially Huldrych Zwingli and John Calvin, actively eliminated imagery from churches within the control of their followers, and regarded the great majority of religious images as idolatrous. The destruction was often extremely divisive and traumatic within communities, an unmistakable physical manifestation, often imposed from above, that could not be ignored. It was just for this reason that reformers favoured a single dramatic \"coup\", and many premature acts in this line sharply increased subsequent hostility between Catholics and Calvinists in communities for it was generally at the level of the city, town or village that such actions occurred, except in England and Scotland. \n\nBut reformers often felt impelled by strong personal convictions, as shown by the case of Frau Göldli, on which Zwingli was asked to advise. She was a Swiss lady who had once made a promise to Saint Apollinaris that if she recovered from an illness she would donate an image of the saint to a local convent, which she did. Later she turned Protestant, and feeling she must reverse what she now saw as a wrong action, she went to the convent church, removed the statue and burnt it. Prosecuted for blasphemy, she paid a small fine without complaint, but flatly refused to pay the additional sum the court ordered be paid to the convent to replace the statue, putting her at risk of serious penalties. Zwingli's letter advised trying to pay the nuns a larger sum on condition they did not replace the statue, but the eventual outcome is unknown. By the end of his life, after iconoclastic shows of force became a feature of the early phases of the French Wars of Religion, even Calvin became alarmed and criticised them, realizing that they had become counter-productive. \nSubjects prominent in Catholic art other than Jesus and events in the Bible, such as Mary and saints were given much less emphasis or disapproved of in Protestant theology. As a result, in much of northern Europe, the Church virtually ceased to commission figurative art, placing the dictation of content entirely in the hands of the artists and lay consumers. Calvinism even objected to non-religious funerary art, such as the heraldry and effigies beloved of the Renaissance rich. Where there was religious art, iconic images of Christ and scenes from the Passion became less frequent, as did portrayals of the saints and clergy. Narrative scenes from the Bible, especially as book illustrations and prints, and, later, moralistic depictions of modern life were preferred. Both Cranachs painted allegorical scenes setting out Lutheran doctrines, in particular a series on \"Law and Gospel\". Daniel Hisgen, a German Rococo painter of the 18th century in Upper Hesse, specialized in cycles of biblical paintings decorating the front of the gallery parapet in Lutheran churches with an upper gallery, a less prominent position that satisfied Lutheran scruples. Wooden organ cases were also often painted with similar scenes to those in Catholic churches.\n\nLutherans strongly defended their existing sacred art from a new wave of Calvinist-on-Lutheran iconoclasm in the second half of the century, as Calvinist rulers or city authorities attempted to impose their will on Lutheran populations in the \"Second Reformation\" of about 1560-1619. Against the Reformed, Lutherans exclaimed: \"You black Calvinist, you give permission to smash our pictures and hack our crosses; we are going to smash you and your Calvinist priests in return\". The Beeldenstorm, a large and very disorderly wave of Calvinist mob destruction of Catholic images and church fittings that spread through the Low Countries in the summer of 1566 was the largest outbreak of this sort, with drastic political repercussions. This campaign of Calvinist iconoclasm \"provoked reactive riots by Lutheran mobs\" in Germany and \"antagonized the neighbouring Eastern Orthodox\" in the Baltic region. Similar patterns to the German actions, but with the addition of encouragement and sometimes finance from the national government, were seen in Anglican England in the English Civil War and English Commonwealth in the next century, when more damage was done to art in medieval parish churches than during the English Reformation.\n\nA major theological difference between Protestantism and Catholicism is the question of transubstantiation, or the literal transformation of the Communion wafer and wine into the body and blood of Christ, though both Lutheran and Reformed Christians affirmed the real presence of Christ in the Eucharist, the former as a sacramental union and the latter as a pneumatic presence. Protestant churches that were not participating in the iconoclasm often selected as altarpieces scenes depicting the Last Supper. This helped the worshippers to recall their theology behind the Eucharist, as opposed to Catholic churches, which often chose crucifixion scenes for their altarpieces to remind the worshippers that the sacrifice of Christ and the sacrifice of the Mass were one and the same, via the literal transformation of the Eucharist.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation also capitalized on the popularity of printmaking in northern Europe. Printmaking allowed images to be mass-produced and widely available to the public at low cost. This allowed for the widespread availability of visually persuasive imagery. The Protestant church was therefore able, as the Catholic Church had been doing since the early 15th century, to bring their theology to the people, and religious education was brought from the church into the homes of the common people, thereby forming a direct link between the worshippers and the divine.\n\nThere was also a violent propaganda war fought partly with popular prints by both sides; these were often highly scurrilous caricatures of the other side and their doctrines. On the Protestant side, portraits of the leading reformers were popular, and their likenesses sometimes represented the Apostles and other figures in Biblical scenes such as the Last Supper.\n\nAfter the early years of the reformation, artists in Protestant areas painted far fewer religious subjects for public display, although there was a conscious effort to develop a Protestant iconography of Bible illustration in book illustrations and prints. In the early Reformation artists, especially Cranach the Elder and Younger and Holbein, made paintings for churches showing the leaders of the reformation in ways very similar to Catholic saints. Later Protestant taste turned from the display in churches of religious scenes, although some continued to be displayed in homes. There was also a reaction against large images from classical mythology, the other manifestation of high style at the time. This brought about a style that was more directly related to accurately portraying the present times. The traditions of landscapes and genre paintings that would fully flower in the 17th century began during this period.\n\nPeter Bruegel (1525–1569) of Flanders is the great genre painter of his time, who worked for both Catholic and Protestant patrons. In most of his paintings, even when depicting religious scenes, most space is given to landscape or peasant life in 16th century Flanders. Bruegel’s \"Wedding Feast\", portrays a Flemish-peasant wedding dinner in a barn, which makes no reference to any religious, historical or classical events, and merely gives insight into the everyday life of the Flemish peasant. Another great painter of his age, Lucas van Leyden (1489–1533), is known mostly for his engravings, such as \"The Milkmaid\", which depicts peasants with milk cows. This engraving, from 1510, well before the Reformation, contains no reference to religion or classicism, although much of his other work features both.\nBruegel was also an accomplished landscape painter. Frequently Bruegel painted agricultural landscapes, such as \"Summer\" from his famous set of the seasons, where he shows peasants harvesting wheat in the country, with a few workers taking a lunch break under a nearby tree. This type of landscape painting, apparently void of religious or classical connotations, gave birth to a long line of northern European landscape artists, such as Jacob van Ruisdael.\n\nWith the great development of the engraving and printmaking market in Antwerp in the 16th century, the public was provided with accessible and affordable images. Many artists provided drawings to book and print publishers, including Bruegel. In 1555 Bruegel began working for \"The Four Winds\", a publishing house owned by Hieronymus Cock. \"The Four Winds\" provided the public with almost a thousand etchings and engravings over two decades. Between 1555 and 1563 Bruegel supplied Cock with almost 40 drawings, which were engraved for the Flemish public.\n\nThe courtly style of Northern Mannerism in the second half of the century has been seen as partly motivated by the desire of rulers in both the Holy Roman Empire and France to find a style of art that could appeal to members of the courtly elite on both sides of the religious divide. Thus religious controversy had the rather ironic effect of encouraging classical mythology in art, since though they might disapprove, even the most stern Calvinists could not credibly claim that 16th century mythological art really represented idolatry.\n\nDuring the Reformation a great divergence arose between the Catholic Church and the Protestant Reformers of the north regarding the content and style of art work. The Catholic Church viewed Protestantism and Reformed iconoclasm as a threat to the church and in response came together at the Council of Trent to institute some of their own reforms. The church felt that much religious art in Catholic countries (especially Italy) had lost its focus on religious subject-matter, and became too interested in material things and decorative qualities. The council came together periodically between 1545 and 1563. The reforms that resulted from this council are what set the basis for what is known as the Counter-Reformation.\n\nItalian painting after the 1520s, with the notable exception of the art of Venice, developed into Mannerism, a highly sophisticated style, striving for effect, that concerned many churchman as lacking appeal for the mass of the population. Church pressure to restrain religious imagery affected art from the 1530s and resulted in the decrees of the final session of the Council of Trent in 1563 including short and rather inexplicit passages concerning religious images, which were to have great impact on the development of Catholic art. Previous Catholic Church councils had rarely felt the need to pronounce on these matters, unlike Orthodox ones which have often ruled on specific types of images.\n\nStatements are often made along the lines of \"The decrees of the Council of Trent stipulated that art was to be direct and compelling in its narrative presentation, that it was to provide an accurate presentation of the biblical narrative or saint’s life, rather than adding incidental and imaginary moments, and that it was to encourage piety\", but in fact the actual decrees of the council were far less explicit than this, though all of these points were probably in line with their intentions. The very short passage dealing with art came only in the final session in 1563, as a last minute and little-discussed addition, based on a French draft. The decree confirmed the traditional doctrine that images only represented the person depicted, and that veneration to them was paid to the person themself, not the image, and further instructed that: ...every superstition shall be removed ... all lasciviousness be avoided; in such wise that figures shall not be painted or adorned with a beauty exciting to lust... there be nothing seen that is disorderly, or that is unbecomingly or confusedly arranged, nothing that is profane, nothing indecorous, seeing that holiness becometh the house of God.\n\nAnd that these things may be the more faithfully observed, the holy Synod ordains, that no one be allowed to place, or cause to be placed, any unusual image, in any place, or church, howsoever exempted, except that image have been approved of by the bishop ...\n\nThe number of decorative treatments of religious subjects declined sharply, as did \"unbecomingly or confusedly arranged\" Mannerist pieces, as a number of books, notably by the Flemish theologian Molanus, Saint Charles Borromeo and Cardinal Gabriele Paleotti, and instructions by local bishops, amplified the decrees, often going into minute detail on what was acceptable. Many traditional iconographies considered without adequate scriptural foundation were in effect prohibited, as was any inclusion of classical pagan elements in religious art, and almost all nudity, including that of the infant Jesus. According to the great medievalist Émile Mâle, this was \"the death of medieval art\".\n\nWhile Calvinists largely removed public art from religion and Reformed societies moved towards more \"secular\" forms of art which might be said to glorify God through the portrayal of the \"natural beauty of His creation and by depicting people who were created in His image\", Counter-Reformation Catholic church continued to encourage religious art, but insisted it was strictly religious in content, glorifying God and Catholic traditions, including the sacraments and the saints. Likewise, \"Lutheran places of worship contain images and sculptures not only of Christ but also of biblical and occasionally of other saints as well as prominent decorated pulpits due to the importance of preaching, stained glass, ornate furniture, magnificent examples of traditional and modern architecture, carved or otherwise embellished altar pieces, and liberal use of candles on the altar and elsewhere.\" The main difference between Lutheran and Roman Catholic places of worship was the presence of the tabernacle in the latter.\n\nSydney Joseph Freedberg, who invented the term \"Counter-Maniera\", cautions against connecting this more austere style in religious painting, which spread from Rome from about 1550, too directly with the decrees of Trent, as it pre-dates these by several years. He describes the decrees as \"a codifying and official sanction of a temper that had come to be conspicuous in Roman culture\".\n\nScipione Pulzone's (1550–1598) painting of the Lamentation which was commissioned for the Church of the Gesù in 1589 is a \"Counter-Maniera\" work that gives a clear demonstration of what the holy council was striving for in the new style of religious art. With the focus of the painting giving direct attention to the crucifixion of Christ, it complies with the religious content of the council and shows the story of the passion while keeping Christ in the image of the ideal human.\nTen years after the Council of Trent's decree Paolo Veronese was summoned by the Inquisition to explain why his \"Last Supper\", a huge canvas for the refectory of a monastery, contained, in the words of the Inquisition: \"buffoons, drunken Germans, dwarfs and other such scurrilities\" as well as extravagant costumes and settings, in what is indeed a fantasy version of a Venetian patrician feast. Veronese was told that he must change his indecorous painting within a three-month period - in fact he just changed the title to \"The Feast in the House of Levi\", still an episode from the Gospels, but a less doctrinally central one, and no more was said. No doubt any Protestant authorities would have been equally disapproving. The pre-existing decline in \"donor portraits\" (those who had paid for an altarpiece or other painting being placed within the painting) was also accelerated; these become rare after the Council.\nFurther waves of \"Counter-Reformation art\" occurred when areas formerly Protestant were again brought under Catholic rule. The churches were normally empty of images, and such periods could represent a boom time for artists. The best known example is the new Spanish Netherlands (essentially modern Belgium), which had been the centre of Protestantism in the Netherlands but became (initially) exclusively Catholic after the Spanish drove the Protestants to the north, where they established the United Provinces. Rubens was one of a number of Flemish Baroque painters who received many commissions, and produced several of his best known works re-filling the empty churches. Several cities in France in the French wars of religion and in Germany, Bohemia and elsewhere in the Thirty Years War saw similar bursts of restocking.\n\nThe rather extreme pronouncement by a synod in Antwerp in 1610 that in future the central panels of altarpieces should only show New Testament scenes was certainly ignored in the cases of many paintings by Rubens and other Flemish artists (and in particular the Jesuits continued to commission altarpieces centred on their saints, but nonetheless New Testament subjects probably did increase. Altarpieces became larger and more easy to make out from a distance, and the large painted or gilded carved wooden altarpieces that were the pride of many northern late medieval cities were often replaced with paintings.\n\nSome subjects were given increased prominence to reflect Counter-Reformation emphases. The \"Repentance of Peter\", showing the end of the episode of the \"Denial of Peter\", was not often seen before the Counter-Reformation, when it became popular as an assertion of the sacrament of Confession against Protestant attacks. This followed an influential book by the Jesuit Cardinal Robert Bellarmine (1542–1621). The image typically shows Peter in tears, as a half-length portrait with no other figures, often with hands clasped as at right, and sometimes \"the cock\" in the background; it was often coupled with a repentant Mary Magdalen, another exemplar from Bellarmine's book.\n\nAs the Counter-Reformation grew stronger and the Catholic Church felt less threat from the Protestant Reformation, Rome once again began to assert its universality to other nations around the world. The religious order of the Jesuits or the Society of Jesus, sent missionaries to the Americas, parts of Africa, India and eastern Asia and used the arts as an effective means of articulating their message of the Catholic Church's dominance over the Christian faith. The Jesuits' impact was so profound during their missions of the time that today very similar styles of art from the Counter-Reformation period in Catholic Churches are found all over the world.\n\nDespite the differences in approaches to religious art, stylistic developments passed about as quickly across religious divisions as within the two \"blocs\". Artistically Rome remained in closer touch with the Netherlands than with Spain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13761338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13761338", "title": "Balady citron", "text": "Balady citron\n\nThe balady citron is a variety of citron, or \"etrog\", grown in Israel, mostly for Jewish ritual purposes. Not native to the region, it was imported around 500 or 300 BCE by either Jewish or Greek settlers. Initially not widely grown, it was promoted and popularized in the 1870s by Rabbi Chaim Elozor Wax.\n\n\"Balady ()\" is Arabic for \"native.\" Local Arab farmers began using this name in the mid-19th century to distinguish this variety from the Greek citron, which was cultivated along the Jaffa seashore.\n\nThe balady citron is an acidic variety, alongside the Florentine and Diamante citron from Italy, and the Greek citron.\n\nCitrus fruits are not native to Israel. According to Gallesio, Jews from Babylonia introduced the citron into Palestine in around 500 BCE, while Tolkowsky believed that Greek settlers brought it from India around 200 years later during the 3rd century BCE. It is thought that the citron is the oldest cultivated fruit in the country. Being of ritual significance for Jews, the citron was exported abroad in small quantities during Roman times. During the 1800s, the Balady was grown on the outskirts of Nablus, Nazareth, Tiberias, Safed and Alma al-Shaib, in Umm al-Fahm and in Lifta village near Jerusalem. It was only in the middle of the 19th-century that Balady citrons began to feature significantly in the European market and a religious Jewish controversy subsequently erupted as to whether the citrons had been grafted and therefore deemed disqualified for ritual use.\n\nIn the 1870s, Rabbi Chaim Elozor Wax devoted himself to its cultivation and organized shipments to Europe. He felt the Balady citron had the strongest traditional lineage of species pureness, and claimed it was to be found in the wild when Nahmanides (d. 1270) arrived in the county. He wrote many letters to the rabbis hoping to influence the diaspora to use the Balady citron. These letters were published in his responsa \"Nefesh Haya\" and the responsa of his correspondents, as well as in pamphlets addressing the Greek citron controversy. Under his influence, many Jews began to purchase the Balady instead of the Greek citron. While the variety was not domesticated, it was used by important scholars and pious Jews who believed in its purity and appropriateness. Rabbi Wax also saw the trade in this citron as an important source of economic income for the Jewish community in Palestine. He invested large sums establishing orchards in Hittin donating the profits to charity. In 1875, Wax planted 600 trees and by 1883 over 40,000 citrons had been exported.\n\nThe pro-Zionist newspapers \"HaMelitz\" and \"HaLevanon\" were instrumental in stirring up interest in etrog cultivation in Palestine, which was seen as important in paving the way for Jewish independence. Some years before, the Greek citron had already been introduced for plantation by newly arrived Sephardic Jews with the financial backing of Sir Moses Montefiore. The new Greek-Jaffa variety was more commercially successful than Balady. Despite all efforts, the Balady was still unable to compete with the Greek citron and at the beginning of that 20th-century its cultivation was very primitive and limited. The Baldy was considered unattractive and some of the new immigrants continued using varieties they were accustomed to in the diaspora.\n\nThe supporters of the Balady were strained in a conflict of interest. While the Greek citron grown in Jaffa showed a good economical future, the Halachic intentions were against it. As a partial solution, the Greek-Jaffa citron was occasionally grafted onto Balady rootstock. The progeny achieved the beautiful properties of the scion type, while the possible influence of lemon rootstock was assumed to be flushed, and replaced with that of the most kosher Balady rootstock At some point, Rabbi Wax was forced to relent and commence topworking to part of his orchard, in order to replace part of the crop with the Greek citron.\n\nThe Old Yishuv rabbis Shmuel Salant and Meir Auerbach supported the progeny of Umm el-Fahm, but those declined quickly. Later, some Israeli rabbis did their utmost for the rescue of Balady. Each collected propagation material from a different place and brought it into cultivation under close supervision. This is how a diversity of sub-varieties or selections with different names developed.\n\nThe list of rabbis who were instrumental includes (arranged in order of date): Rabbi Zarach Reuven Braverman founder and dean of the Yeshiva Mea Shearim; Rabbi Yosef Chaim Sonnenfeld; and students and close disciples of Rabbi Yehoshua Leib Diskin, who are said to have been inspired to this ambition by their master.\n\nWhen the Chazon Ish reached the Holy Land, he made his own selection according to his satisfaction. To Yakov Halperin, founder of Zichron Meir in Bnei Brak, he gave plantings of the variety called Halperin-Chazon Ish; and to Rabbi Michel Yehuda Lefkowitz, the variety called Lefkowitz-Chazon Ish.\n\nRabbi Abraham Isaac Kook promoted the intraspecific graft from the Greek citron onto Balady citron rootstock, and granted his Hechsher for this, believing that it was a practical solution to grow beautiful etrogs that were also kosher. However, he still acknowledged the halachic promotion of those etrogs cultivated at different Arabic villages, that were never as nice but were praised for not being grafted.\n\nBalady citron varieties are still grown and sold today in diaspora as well as in Israel, and are favored by the followers of the Brisker Rov and the Chazon Ish.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3327447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3327447", "title": "Charu Nivedita", "text": "Charu Nivedita\n\nCharu Nivedita (born 18 December 1953) is a postmodern, transgressive Tamil writer, based in Chennai, India. \nThere is an invisible ban on his writings in the Tamil literary milieu, whereas he is widely translated into Malayalam in nearby Kerala. Since his writings are transgressive in nature, he is branded as a pornographic writer and disliked by many. For a longtime he was writing clandestinely under the pseudonym ‘Muniyandi’. He was born and raised in a slum until the age of eighteen, worked in the government services and survived as a wanderer. His novel \"Zero Degree\" was longlisted for the 2013 edition of Jan Michalski Prize for Literature. \"Zero Degree\" was inducted into the prestigious '50 Writers, 50 Books - The Best of Indian Fiction', published by HarperCollins. Vahni Capildeo places Charu Nivedita on par with Vladimir Nabokov, James Joyce and Jean Genet, in her article in the Caribbean Review of Books. He was selected as one among 'Top Ten Indians of the Decade 2001 - 2010' by The Economic Times. He is inspired by Marquis de Sade and Andal. His columns appear in magazines such as Art Review Asia, \"The Asian Age\" and \"Deccan Chronicle\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "412676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412676", "title": "Conflict resolution", "text": "Conflict resolution\n\nConflict resolution is conceptualized as the methods and processes involved in facilitating the peaceful ending of conflict and retribution. Committed group members attempt to resolve group conflicts by actively communicating information about their conflicting motives or ideologies to the rest of the group (e.g., intentions; reasons for holding certain beliefs) and by engaging in collective negotiation. Dimensions of resolution typically parallel the dimensions of conflict in the way the conflict is processed. Cognitive resolution is the way disputants understand and view the conflict, with beliefs, perspectives, understandings and attitudes. Emotional resolution is in the way disputants feel about a conflict, the emotional energy. Behavioral resolution is reflective of how the disputants act, their behavior. Ultimately a wide range of methods and procedures for addressing conflict exist, including negotiation, mediation, mediation-arbitration, diplomacy, and creative peacebuilding.\n\nThe term \"conflict resolution\" may also be used interchangeably with \"dispute resolution\", where arbitration and litigation processes are critically involved. The concept of conflict resolution can be thought to encompass the use of nonviolent resistance measures by conflicted parties in an attempt to promote effective resolution.\n\nThe dual concern model of conflict resolution is a conceptual perspective that assumes individuals’ preferred method of dealing with conflict is based on two underlying themes or dimensions: concern for self (assertiveness) and concern for others (empathy).\n\nAccording to the model, group members balance their concern for satisfying personal needs and interests with their concern for satisfying the needs and interests of others in different ways. The intersection of these two dimensions ultimately leads individuals towards exhibiting different styles of conflict resolution. The dual model identifies five conflict resolution styles/strategies that individuals may use depending on their dispositions toward pro-self or pro-social goals.\n\nThere are many examples of conflict resolution in history, and there has been a debate about the ways to conflict resolution: whether it should be forced or peaceful. Conflict resolution by peaceful means is always a better option. The conflict resolution curve derived from an analytical model offers a peaceful solution by motivating conflicting entities. Forced resolution of conflict might invoke another conflict in future.\n\nConflict resolution curve (CRC) separates conflict styles into two separate domains: domain of competing entities and domain of accommodating entities(Image of CRC ). There is a sort of agreement between targets and aggressors on this curve. Their judgements of badness compared to goodness of each other are analogous on CRC. So, arrival of all conflicting entities to some negotiable points on CRC is important before peace building. CRC does not exist (i.e., singular) in reality if the chance of aggression of the aggressor is certain. Under such circumstances it might lead to apocalypse with mutual destruction.\nThe curve explains why nonviolent struggles ultimately toppled repressive regimes from power and sometimes forced leaders to change the nature of governance. Also, this methodology has been applied to capture the conflict styles in Korean Peninsula and dynamics of negotiation process.\n\nWars may occur between parties who contest an incompatibility. The nature of an incompatibility can be territorial or governmental, but a warring party must be a \"government of a state or any opposition organization or alliance of organizations that uses armed force to promote its position in the incompatibility in an intrastate or an interstate armed conflict\". Wars can conclude with a peace agreement, which is a \"formal agreement... which addresses the disputed incompatibility, either by settling all or part of it, or by clearly outlining a process for how... to regulate the incompatibility.\" A ceasefire is another form of agreement made by warring parties; unlike a peace agreement, it only \"regulates the conflict behaviour of warring parties\", and does not resolve the issue that brought the parties to war in the first place.\n\nPeacekeeping measures may be deployed to avoid violence in solving such incompatibilities. Beginning in the last century, political theorists have been developing the theory of a global peace system that relies upon broad social and political measures to avoid war in the interest of achieving world peace. The Blue Peace approach developed by Strategic Foresight Group facilitates cooperation between countries over shared water resources, thus reducing the risk of war and enabling sustainable development.\n\nConflict resolution is an expanding field of professional practice, both in the U.S. and around the world. The escalating costs of conflict have increased use of third parties who may serve as a conflict specialists to resolve conflicts. In fact, relief and development organizations have added peace-building specialists to their teams. Many major international non-governmental organizations have seen a growing need to hire practitioners trained in conflict analysis and resolution. Furthermore, this expansion has resulted in the need for conflict resolution practitioners to work in a variety of settings such as in businesses, court systems, government agencies, nonprofit organizations, and educational institutions throughout the world.\n\nConflict resolution as both a professional practice and academic field is highly sensitive to cultural practices. In Western cultural contexts, such as Canada and the United States, successful conflict resolution usually involves fostering communication among disputants, problem solving, and drafting agreements that meet underlying needs. In these situations, conflict resolvers often talk about finding a mutually satisfying (\"win-win\") solution for everyone involved.\n\nIn many non-Western cultural contexts, such as Afghanistan, Vietnam, and China, it is also important to find \"win-win\" solutions; however, the routes taken to find them may be very different. In these contexts, direct communication between disputants that explicitly addresses the issues at stake in the conflict can be perceived as very rude, making the conflict worse and delaying resolution. It can make sense to involve religious, tribal, or community leaders; communicate difficult truths through a third party; or make suggestions through stories. Intercultural conflicts are often the most difficult to resolve because the expectations of the disputants can be very different, and there is much occasion for misunderstanding.\n\nConflict resolution has also been studied in non-humans, including dogs, cats, monkeys, snakes, elephants, and primates. Aggression is more common among relatives and within a group than between groups. Instead of creating distance between the individuals, primates tend to be more intimate in the period after an aggressive incident. These intimacies consist of grooming and various forms of body contact. Stress responses, including increased heart rates, usually decrease after these reconciliatory signals. Different types of primates, as well as many other species who live in groups, display different types of conciliatory behavior. Resolving conflicts that threaten the interaction between individuals in a group is necessary for survival, giving it a strong evolutionary value. These findings contradict previous existing theories about the general function of aggression, i.e. creating space between individuals (first proposed by Konrad Lorenz), which seems to be more the case in conflicts between groups than it is within groups.\n\nIn addition to research in primates, biologists are beginning to explore reconciliation in other animals. Until recently, the literature dealing with reconciliation in non-primates has consisted of anecdotal observations and very little quantitative data. Although peaceful post-conflict behavior had been documented going back to the 1960s, it was not until 1993 that Rowell made the first explicit mention of reconciliation in feral sheep. Reconciliation has since been documented in spotted hyenas, lions, bottlenose dolphins, dwarf mongoose, domestic goats, domestic dogs, and, recently, in red-necked wallabies.\n\nUniversities worldwide offer programs of study pertaining to conflict research, analysis, and practice. Conrad Grebel University College at the University of Waterloo has the oldest-running peace and conflict studies (PACS) program in Canada. PACS can be taken as an Honors, 4-year general, or 3-year general major, joint major, minor, and diploma. Grebel also offers an interdisciplinary Master of Peace and Conflict Studies professional program. The Cornell University ILR School houses the Scheinman Institute on Conflict Resolution, which offers undergraduate, graduate, and professional training on conflict resolution. It also offers dispute resolution concentrations for its , JD/MILR, MPS, and MS/PhD graduate degree programs. At the graduate level, Eastern Mennonite University's Center for Justice and Peacebuilding offers a Master of Arts in Conflict Transformation, a dual Master of Divinity/MA in Conflict Transformation degree, and several graduate certificates. EMU also offers an accelerated 5-year BA in Peacebuilding and Development/MA in Conflict Transformation. Additional graduate programs are offered at Georgetown University, Johns Hopkins University, Creighton University, the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, and Trinity College Dublin. George Mason University’s School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution offers BA, BS, MS, and PhD degrees in Conflict Analysis and Resolution, as well as an undergraduate minor, graduate certificates, and joint degree programs. Nova Southeastern University also offers a PhD in Conflict Analysis & Resolution, in both online and on-campus formats.\n\nConflict resolution is a growing area of interest in UK pedagogy, with teachers and students both encouraged to learn about mechanisms that lead to aggressive action and those that lead to peaceful resolution. The University of Law, one of the oldest common law training institutions in the world, offers a legal-focused masters degree in Conflict Resolution as an LL.M. (Conflict resolution).\n\nTel Aviv University offers two graduate degree programs in the field of conflict resolution, including the English-language International Program in Conflict Resolution and Mediation, allowing students to learn in a geographic region which is the subject of much research on international conflict resolution.\n\nThe Nelson Mandela Center for Peace & Conflict Resolution at Jamia Millia Islamia University, New Delhi, is one of the first centers for peace and conflict resolution to be established at an Indian university. It offers a two-year full-time MA course in Conflict Analysis and Peace-Building, as well as a PhD in Conflict and Peace Studies.\n\nConflict management refers to the long-term management of intractable conflicts. It is the label for the variety of ways by which people handle grievances—standing up for what they consider to be right and against what they consider to be wrong. Those ways include such diverse phenomena as gossip, ridicule, lynching, terrorism, warfare, feuding, genocide, law, mediation, and avoidance. Which forms of conflict management will be used in any given situation can be somewhat predicted and explained by the social structure—or social geometry—of the case.\n\nConflict management is often considered to be distinct from conflict resolution. \nIn order for actual conflict to occur, there should be an expression of exclusive patterns which explain why and how the conflict was expressed the way it was. Conflict is often connected to a previous issue. Resolution refers to resolving a dispute to the approval of one or both parties, whereas management is concerned with an ongoing process that may never have a resolution. Neither is considered the same as conflict transformation, which seeks to reframe the positions of the conflict parties.\n\nThe role of culture is not always fully appreciated and must be taken into account. In a piece on “the ocean model of civilization”, Prof Nayef Al-Rodhan argues that greater transcultural understanding is critical for global security because it diminishes ‘hierarchies’ and alienation, and avoids dehumanization of the ‘other’.\n\nWhen personal conflict leads to frustration and loss of efficiency, counseling may prove helpful. Although few organizations can afford to have professional counselors on staff, given some training, managers may be able to perform this function. Nondirective counseling, or \"listening with understanding\", is little more than being a good listener—something every manager should be.\n\nSometimes simply being able to express one's feelings to a concerned and understanding listener is enough to relieve frustration and make it possible for an individual to advance to a problem-solving frame of mind. The nondirective approach is one effective way for managers to deal with frustrated subordinates and coworkers.\n\nThere are other, more direct and more diagnostic, methods that could be used in appropriate circumstances. However, the great strength of the nondirective approach lies in its simplicity, its effectiveness, and that it deliberately avoids the manager-counselor's diagnosing and interpreting emotional problems, which would call for special psychological training. Listening to staff with sympathy and understanding is unlikely to escalate the problem, and is a widely-used approach for helping people cope with problems that interfere with their effectiveness in the workplace.\n\nStep 1: Clarifying and focusing: problem ownership\n\nNegative feelings such as annoyance, anger and discomfort can interfere with understanding exactly what is wrong in situations of confrontation and how to set things right again. Gaining a bit of distance from negative feelings is exactly what such moments call for, especially on the part of the person with (presumably) the greatest maturity. \"Problem ownership\" is defined as deciding who should take ownership of the behavior or conflict in the issue (Gordon, 2003). The main person who is bothered by the root problem is also the “owner” of the problem, and thus the owner of a problem needs to be the one who takes primary responsibility for solving the issue. Identifying ownership makes a difference in how behavior is dealt with, as well as how the problem is effectively solved. It is important to ask clarifying questions to really understand the root causes of the conflict.\n\nStep 2: Active listening\n\nSeveral strategies help with distinguishing who has a problem with a behavior and who takes ownership. One of those strategies is active listening. Active listening is attending carefully to all aspects of what a student says and attempting to understand or empathize as much as one can (Seifert & Sutton). Active listening consists of continually asking questions in order to test your understanding. It also requires giving encouragement to the student by letting them tell their story, and paraphrasing what the student says so you can form an unbiased conclusion. It is key not to move too quickly at solving the problem by just giving advice, instructions, or scolding. Responding too soon with solutions can shut down the student’s communication and leave you with inaccurate impressions of the source or nature of the problem (Seifert & Sutton).\n\nStep 3: Assertive discipline and I-messages\n\nOnce you, as the teacher, have taken in the student’s point of view, form your comments around how the student’s behavior affects your role. Your comments should be assertive, emphasize I-messages, and encourage the student to think about the effects of his or her behavior. They should not be passive, apologetic, hostile or aggressive, but matter-of-fact, such as, “Charlie, you are talking while I am talking.” The comments should emphasize I-messages that focus on how the behavior is affecting the teacher’s teaching and the other students' learning (Seifert & Sutton). An example of this would be, “You are making it hard for me to focus on teaching this math lesson.” Lastly, you should ask the student more open-ended questions that make him or her think about the consequences of his or her behavior, such as, “How do the other kids feel when you yell in the middle of class?” (Seifert & Sutton). \n\nStep 4: Negotiation\n\nSeifert and Sutton state that the first three steps describe desirable ways of handling situations that are specific and last for only a short time. These steps by themselves could potentially not be enough when conflicts persist over extended periods of time. Often it is better to negotiate a solution in these situations. Negotiating is defined as methodically deliberating various options and deciding on one if possible (Seifert & Sutton). Even though negotiation demands time and energy, it often demands less time or effort ultimately than continuing to cope with the problem. The results of negotiation can be valuable to everyone involved in the situation. Various experts on conflict resolution have suggested different ways to negotiate with students about problems that are continual (Seifert & Sutton). The theories differ in specifics, but typically are generally similar to the steps we previously discussed:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34549363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34549363", "title": "Critical code studies", "text": "Critical code studies\n\nCritical code studies (CCS) is an emerging academic subfield, related to software studies, digital humanities, cultural studies, computer science, human-computer interface, and the do-it-yourself maker culture. Its primary focus is on the cultural significance of computer code, without excluding or focusing solely upon the code's functional purpose.\n\nAs introduced by Mark C. Marino, critical code studies was initially a method by which scholars \"can read and explicate code the way we might explicate a work of literature,\" but the concept also draws upon Espen Aarseth's conception of a cybertext as a \"mechanical device for the production and consumption of verbal signs\" (Cybertext, 21), arguing that in order to understand a digital artifact we must also understand the constraints and capabilities of the authoring tools used by the creator of the artifact, as well as the memory storage and interface required for the user to experience the digital artifact.\n\nEvidence that critical code studies has gained momentum since 2006 include an article by Matthew Kirschenbaum in the Chronicle of Higher Education, CCS sessions at the Modern Language Association in 2011 that were \"packed\" with attendees, several academic conferences devoted wholly to critical code studies, and a book devoted to the explication of a single line of computer code, titled \"10 PRINT CHR$(205.5+RND(1)); : GOTO 10\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26578231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26578231", "title": "Croatian pre-Romanesque art and architecture", "text": "Croatian pre-Romanesque art and architecture\n\nCroatian Pre-Romanesque art and architecture or Old Croatian Art is Pre-Romanesque art and architecture of Croats from their arrival at Balkans till the end of the 11th century when begins the dominance of Romanesque style in art; that was the time of Croatian rulers (Croatian dukes and Croatian Kingdom).\n\nCroats have moved from northern Europe, together with other Slavs and Avars, to the area of former Roman provinces of Pannonia, Dalmatia and Istria, where they live til the present day. There they founded several principalities: Pannonian Croatia in the north around the river Sava, and Dalmatian Croatia along the western and southern Adriatic coast. Together they were known as White Croatia, while to the east there were medieval principalities in southern Dalmatia which were at times collectively called Red Croatia.\n\nCroats have been developed to the stage of Iron Age, and they didn’t know how to enjoy the riches of Roman cities, so they inhabited not the city itself but its suburbs (like the river island on the delta of river Jadro next to city of Salona). Croats have assimilated Avars, accepted Christianity, and the ruling cast learned to speak and write Latin. Croats have accepted Christianity from Franks to the west and from Byzantium from the east. Most of the principalities have turned to Christianity in the 9th century except Pagania which was true to old Slav mythology until the 13th century.\nFirst Croatian ruler that was recognized by the pope was duke Branimir, who was called by pope John VIII \"dux Chroatorum\" in his letter in 879.\nFirst king of Kingdom of Croatia, Tomislav from the House of Trpimirović was crowned around year 925 as \"rex Chroatorum\" and he united Pannonian Principality and Littoral Croatian Duchy into respectable medieval country which peaked during the reign of Petar Krešimir IV (1058-1074).\n\nDuring the time of Croatian rulers the country was rarely ruled from one place and royal court would move from town to town in which there was a royal castle. The most important royal cities were Nin, Biograd na Moru and Knin. Other bigger cities were Zadar, Split, Krk, Osor, Trogir, Ston and Dubrovnik, in which big number of original Roman population resided that was eventually croaticized.\n\nAfter the death of last ruler from the dynasty of Trpimirović in 1091 most of Croatian nobility has accepted the Hungarian king Coloman as a king of unified kingdom of Croatian and Hungary, stated by the deal \"Pacta Conventa\" from year 1102. In Hungarian Kingdom, in Croatia all art already has all characteristics of Romanesque style.\n\nDuring 7th and 8th century in Croatia there is a trend of building smaller buildings from the material and decorative elements of ruined older Roman buildings. During the 9th century, parallel with the establishment of Croatian principalities, new architecture of pre-Romanesque characteristics emerged. It was based on numerous influences of which the Frankish and Byzantine were the strongest. Slowly these inherited influences were degrading in favour of original architectural forms.\nFrom this time, there are dozens of large ones and over a hundred small churches preserved across entire Croatian coastline and islands. They are all built out of roughly broken stones covered with thick layer of moulter inside and out, and with narrow decorative niches with arched top (like church of st. Peter in Priko near Omiš and St. Michael near Ston). Also, they often have stone vaults, apses and domes, as well as stone furniture (frames of doors and windows, perforated stone windows, and altar fences) columns, beams and portals. Instead of classical Roman forms where every part of the building was articulated and had its own recognizable form, new pre-Romanesque buildings have those parts united in unified mass. Therefore, the point where the wall turns to vault, or to drum of the dome is almost unnoticeable. Even though they were built roughly with unsophisticated materials they have excellent and often perfect understanding of architectural space.\nSmaller churches are called “churches of free shapes” as which the medieval architects wanted to explore all possibilities of shaping on the circular and rectangular base. Cube churches with dome are a bit simple (St. Pelegrin, Dugi otok), rectangular with elliptical base are a bit more complex (St. George, Ravanjska), as well as single nave churches with dome above middle section (St. Peter in Omiš) and cube based churches elongated with two apses (Church of St. Donatus on Krk) and the most complicated ones are those based on Greek cross with dome on the centre and large apse in eastern wing and two smaller apses in northern and southern wing (Church of Saint Cross in Nin).\n\nThe most original churches are churches based on a circle with multiple apses that are spread around in radial rhythm. Church of St. Three in Split has radial 6 apses, while Church in Ošlje (Ston) is the ony one with 8 apses. The biggest church with circular base is \"Church of St. Donatus\" in Zadar from the 9th century. Around its circular base that has a dome there is a ring nave with gallery and three apses on the east. From that time in central Europe there is only Charlemagne’s \"Palatine Chapel in Aachen\" that can be compared with its size and beauty.\n\nLarge churches often have one or three naves, like \"St. Saviour, Cetina\" from the 9th century which has rounded buttresses and a bell tower above the western portal (westwork).\n\nIn the 10th century Croatian queen Jelena of Zadar, the wife of king Mihajlo Krešimir II, built in Solin two churches: Church of St. Stephen of the Island which was used as a royal mausoleum, and Church of Our Lady of the Island, one of the biggest in Croatia which was used as crown basilica. Church of St. Stephen was built in Carolingian style with entrance hall above which was a gallery surrounded with two towers (westwork) from each sides of a narthex which led to tree nave church with two rows of pillars and a square apse at the end of central nave.\n\nIn the 11th century, next to older “Church on the Hill” in Solin, Crown church of St. Peter and Moses (better known as “Hollow church“) was built. The church was of unified Croatian pre-Romanesque forms and those Romanesque that appeared with the arrival of Benedictine monks in these parts. It has three naves, many thin niches inside and three apses of which middle is square and other are semicircular from inside and square outside. In this church the legate of Pope Gregory VII has crowned Croatian Dmitar Zvonimir.\n\nIn northern Croatia there are only few fragments of interlace found in Sisak, the capital of Ljudevit Posavski. When the bishopric was founded in Zagreb (1090), Croatian culture at the coast has already flourished for 300 years and Croatia was at the end of its independence.\n\nPre-Romanesque Croatian churches are also the most important historical sources of that time because on their beams and tympanums of altar fences, as well on some portals and ciboriums we found many names of Croatian kings, dukes and nobleman which are mentioned as patrons and builders of those churches. The oldest one is from church in Rižinice (Solin) which mentions Croatian duke Trpimir (\"PRO DVCE TREPIMERO\"), from around year 850, while on the inscription of duke Branimir from year 888 we have the oldest mention of Croats: \"CRVATORVM\". On the rest from 10th century we found the names of dukes Muncimir of Croatia, Držislav and Svetislav, all the way to king Zvonimir from the end of the 11th century.\nThat inscription of king Zvonimir is already made in Croatian language, written in Glagolitic script (Baška tablet).\n\nDouble literacy and two scripts have been noticed in several monuments as Plomin tablet (Istria) and Valun tablet (Cres, 11th century) where we have Latin language and script as well as Croatian translation in Glagolitic script. Nevertheless, soon the Latin script replaced the Glagolitic which was the only way that Croats would be accepted into still Romanized Medieval Europe. However, Croats will use their native language and script all the way to the 16th century, especially in Istria, Kvarner and on the Croatian coast.\nAltar fences and stone perforated windows were decorated with shallow interlace ornament which we call Croatian interlace. Motifs of this interlace are often of classical origin (waves, three string interlace, pentagrams, nets of rhomboids, etc.), but while in the Roman art it was used only as a frame, here they cover the entire surface. Sheer number, but also the quality of stonework, of these monuments tells us of rich masonry tradition of numerous masters and workshops on the east coast of Adriatic. Comparing to thousands of fragments found in Dalmatia, in the northern Croatia there are only two confirmed founds: one in Lobor and one in Ilok.\n\nSometimes the interlace is replaced with figures of Gospels (like on the altar fence of Holy Sunday Church in Zadar), but those figures are flatten and their character lines are reduced to graphic lines in outmost linear stylization. The same is the relief from Crown Hollow church of king Zvonimir in Solin with the figure of \"(Croatian) king\" on the throne with Frankish crown, beside him is a page, and on the ground is a bowing subject. This relief is from the 15th century a front part of a baptistery in Split Cathedral.\n\nIn church of St. Mary from the 11th century in Bishopric (Biskupija) near Knin the oldest figure of Holy Mary in Croatia was found.\n\nCroatian interlace was originally painted, usually every string would be coloured brightly yellow, red or blue. Since the wall paintings that are mentioned in several literal sources (like the portraits of Trpimirović dynasty in church of St. George in Putalj above Kaštel Sućurac) are not preserved, they are only type of pre-Romanesque Croatian painting.\nThe only preserved paintings are found in the church of St. Michael near Ston from the 11th century . They were ordered by Doclean ruler Mihailo Vojislav, and were a work of local artist who with rough form and primitive materials achieved strong and suggestive expression in portrayed characters. The figure of a king that holds a model of a church has the same crown as the king depicted in the relief in Split baptistery. His portrait is also remarkable, it shows bony person with high eyebrows and wrinkled forehead, while his long hair and beard are already partly gray.\n\nFortunately significant number of church codices were preserved. They were done on pergam with pre-Romanesque miniatures of high quality and technique. The oldest one is Split Breviary that was written and painted from the 8th to 11th centuries, based on famous Breviaries from pre-Carolingian era. In Zagreb there is a Liber psalmorum which was illuminated in Benedictine style by prior Majon for archbishop Paul of Split (c. 1015–1030). In Vatican there is a Breviary, also in monte-cassino Benedictine style (initials of intertwined leaves, interlace and animal heads) which originates from monastery of St. Nicola in Osor. The same style of illumination we can found in Breviars in Trogir, Šibenik and Dubrovnik but there are many that were recorded (like 47 books in only one church in monastery of St. Peter in Seka) but not preserved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1139527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1139527", "title": "Deutscher Michel", "text": "Deutscher Michel\n\nDer Deutsche Michel (\"Michael the German\") is a figure representing the national character of the German people, rather as John Bull represents the English and Uncle Sam represents Americans.\n\nSuch figures differ from those that serve as personifications of the nation itself, as Germania did the German nation and Marianne the French. He is usually depicted wearing a nightcap and nightgown, sometimes in the colours of the German flag, and represents the Germans' conception of themselves, especially in his easy-going nature and Everyman appearance. In any event, the nightgown and the night cap, which have been present in all pictorial representations of the German Michel - the first ones dating from the first half of the nineteenth century - are also interpreted in a way that the German Michel is, in fact, a rather naive and gullible person, not prone, for example, to question the authority of the government. On the contrary, he prefers a decent, plain and quiet lifestyle.\n\nOver the centuries, the character traits attributed to the German Michel were subject to some change.\n\nIn German, \"Michel\" is also the short form of Michael, though quite rare today.\n\n"}
{"id": "50149041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50149041", "title": "Dinkoism", "text": "Dinkoism\n\nDinkoism (), or the Dinkoist religion, is a religion and a social movement that emerged and evolved on social networks organized by independent welfare groups in the Indian state of Kerala. Although adherents describe Dinkoism as a genuine religion, it is described in media as a parody religion.\n\nAccording to a report in \"India Today\", Dinkoism was established in 2008 in Kerala by a group of rationalists with the intention of ridiculing \"the absurdity of blind religious faith\". The community planned to become politically active. A report in \"The New Indian Express\" said Dinkoism is gaining members through Facebook. The BBC described Dinkoism in 2016 as an atheist movement with significant growth on social media.\n\nThe religion purports to worship Dinkan, a comic book character. Dinkoists celebrate the character—a superhero mouse that appeared in 1983 in defunct Malayalam-language children's magazine \"Balamangalam\"—as their God for the purpose of exposing the fallacies and practices of traditional religions.\n\nThe concept of Dinkoism has spread through the social media but the movement has organised protest events. On January 30, 2016, a group of Dinkoists, under the banner of \"Mooshikasena\" (Rat Army) held a mock protest in front of Dhe Puttu restaurant owned by popular actor Dileep alleging his upcoming film Professor Dinkan hurt their religious sentiments, mocking similar protests happening worldwide.\n\nEarlier Dinkoism was in news when an expatriate Dinkoist living in California obtained a license plate with the inscription DINKAN for his car, out of his devotion for Dinkan. In 2016, J. Devika wrote an article about the concept of Dinkoism and the logic of the market.\n\nDinkoists of Kozhikode organised a conference at the Sports Council Hall, Mananchira on March 20, 2016. They organised a variety of entertainments with a theme of tapioca. E.A. Jabbar, a prominent rationalist, endorsed Dinkoism.\n\nIn April 2016, 25,000 Dinkoists were expected to gather for a convention called a \"Dinkamatha Maha Sammelanam\" to \"present their rights as a minority community\". Dinkoists have received threatening messages as well as opposition from believers of other religions.\n\n"}
{"id": "18118241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18118241", "title": "East Strickland languages", "text": "East Strickland languages\n\nThe East Strickland languages are a family of Trans–New Guinea languages in the classification of Malcolm Ross. The six languages, \nare clearly related. \n\nGobasi, Odoodee and Samo, but especially Gobasi, are also known as \"Nomad\". \n\nPronouns are:\n"}
{"id": "25121909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25121909", "title": "Effects of tightlacing on the body", "text": "Effects of tightlacing on the body\n\nTightlacing is the practice of wearing a corset that has been tightly laced to shape the body to a desired figure. This practice has been in effect since the early years of corsetry, often deplored by moralists and the subject of urban legends and cautionary tales in many centuries. For the same amount of time, doctors spoke against the practice, citing dramatic risks to the wearer's health. However, many claims were based on the incomplete medical knowledge of the day, as well as incorrect assumptions and beliefs about the female body.\n\nThere is no actual evidence from specific, cited autopsies supporting the notion that the heart is damaged by corsetry.\n\nA study published in \"Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research\" in 1989 showed that participants who wore waist belts when weight lifting had an increase in blood pressure. that when weight lifting, the support belts that the men wore increased their blood pressure. This inspired the popular corset maker and founder of Lucy's Corsetry, Lucy Williams, to see if this could potentially apply to corsets as well. In a video, she measures her blood pressure both in and out of the corset, seeing a 10% increase of blood pressure while wearing a corset. This is consistent with the 1989 study which saw a 6-15% increase in blood pressure of the wearers.\n\nThe constriction of the corset, if too tight, prevents the lower lobes of the lungs from fully expanding when taking a breath. This puts extra strain on and causes additional work for the lower lobes of the lungs. David Kunzle, an art historian, argues that because the lower lobes have been strained, they are unable to adequately fight off pneumonia or bacillus tuberculosis which go to the lower lobes of the lungs first.\n\nHowever, Valerie Steele notes that the corset's association with tuberculosis originated before the bacillus was discovered, and that the corset may have only aggravated the condition.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, corseting was thought to lead to cardiac palpitations in the heart and spanaemia, or the lack of oxygen in the blood.\n\nThis claim was successfully debunked, as there is no evidence to support corset-caused circulatory damage.\n\nCorset-wearing cannot cause breast cancer. Occurring more frequently is a reduction of the size of the nipples. Victorians believed the corset caused mammary abscesses, a common inflammation of the connective tissue in the breast; however, mastitis is caused by bacteria, and thus there is no evidence supporting that clothing of any type alone could have led to the condition. These effects are only consistent with that of over-bust corsets and not relevant to those using under-bust only.\n\nVictorian doctors believed that, in a tightly-laced corset, the stomach would be unable to churn correctly, making it difficult to digest food completely. This condition is called dyspepsia, more commonly known as indigestion.\n\nIt may cause constipation and make it difficult for the wearer to eat a sizable meal.\n\nVictorian doctors believed that the liver experienced many complications while the body is tightlaced, becoming severed due to the location of the ribs as a result of the tightlacing, and that the liver would become enlarged or displaced. Another possibility was mechanical congestion, the result of the pressure placed on the inferior vena cava, thus obstructing the flow of blood. According to Dr. Tse-Ling Fong, liver cancer is often the result of this vein being blocked. The blocked vein is not able to filter out the bad blood in the liver resulting in a cancerous infection.\n\nHowever, corsets would not have had a drastic effect on the liver, merely squeezing and elongating it, and modern research shows that much of the liver function can be lost without causing health problems. Steele also notes that there is a great deal of variation in liver appearance, which may have confused anatomists performing autopsies.\n\nThe corset may have aided a poor diet in causing constipation which, according to Dr. Majid Ali, if severe enough and left untreated, can eventually lead to death.\n\nThe uterus was believed by Victorian doctors to suffer the most from tightlacing, failing to develop properly due to the inactivity of the abdominal muscles or becoming prolapsed. Others believed that every time the bladder or rectum emptied, the uterus was unable to be lifted back into place due to weak ligaments, causing head and back pain, and inability to stand or walk, and improper menstruation.\n\nHowever, this line of thought rested on very little evidence and the assumption that the uterus was one of the most important organs in a woman's body, and it is unlikely that the uterus actually suffered from corsetry.\n\nVictorian doctors believed there was a relationship between gallstones and tightlacing, the corset causing extreme weight loss. (Gallstones are the result of the body metabolizing fat to compensate for rapid weight loss.)\n\nHowever, the most common sufferers from gallstones are female even today, and it is unlikely that the corset had much to do with the condition.\n\nWearing a corset for a very extended period of time can result in muscle atrophy and lower-back pain. The pectoral muscles also become weak after extensive tightlacing. These weakened muscles cause a greater reliance on the corset.\n\nSubtext: Recent MRI Scans have shown:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1200978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1200978", "title": "God Save Our Solomon Islands", "text": "God Save Our Solomon Islands\n\nGod Save Our Solomon Islands is the national anthem of Solomon Islands. It was adopted in 1978 following independence. The lyrics were authored by Panapasa Balekana and Matila Balekana. The music was written by Panapasa Balekana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14329", "title": "Historicism", "text": "Historicism\n\nHistoricism is the idea of attributing meaningful significance to space and time, such as historical period, geographical place, and local culture. Historicism tends to be hermeneutical because it values cautious, rigorous, and contextualized interpretation of information; or relativist, because it rejects notions of universal, fundamental and immutable interpretations. The approach varies from individualist theories of knowledge such as empiricism and rationalism, which neglect the role of traditions.\n\nThe term \"historicism\" (\"Historismus\") was coined by German philosopher Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel. Over time it has developed different and somewhat divergent meanings. Elements of historicism appear in the writings of French essayist Michel de Montaigne (1533–1592) and Italian philosopher G. B. Vico (1668–1744), and became more fully developed with the dialectic of Georg Hegel (1770–1831), influential in 19th-century Europe. The writings of Karl Marx, influenced by Hegel, also include historicism. The term is also associated with the empirical social sciences and with the work of Franz Boas.\n\nHistoricism may be contrasted with reductionist theories—which assumes that all developments can be explained by fundamental principles (such as in economic determinism)—or with theories that posit that historical changes occur as a result of random chance.\n\nThe Austrian-English philosopher Karl Popper condemned historicism along with the determinism and holism which he argued formed its basis. In his \"Poverty of Historicism\", he identified historicism with the opinion that there are \"inexorable laws of historical destiny\", which opinion he warned against. This contrasts with the contextually relative interpretation of historicism for which its proponents argue. Talcott Parsons criticized historicism as a case of idealistic fallacy in \"The Structure of Social Action\" (1937).\n\nPost-structuralism uses the term \"New Historicism\", which has some associations with both anthropology and Hegelianism.\n\nThe theological use of the word denotes the interpretation of biblical prophecy as being related to church history.\n\nHegel viewed the realization of human freedom as the ultimate purpose of history, which could only be achieved through the creation of the perfect state. And this progressive history would only occur through a dialectical process: namely, the tension between the purpose of humankind (freedom), the position that humankind currently finds itself, and mankind's attempt to bend the current world into accord with its nature. However, because humans are often not aware of the goal of both humanity and history, the process of achieving freedom is necessarily one of self-discovery. Hegel also saw the progress toward freedom being conducted by the \"spirit\" (Geist), a seemingly supernatural force that directed all human actions and interactions. Yet Hegel makes clear that the spirit is a mere abstraction, and only comes into existence \"through the activity of finite agents.\" Thus, Hegel's philosophy of history is not necessarily metaphysical, despite the fact that many of Hegel's opponents and interpreters have understood Hegel's philosophy of history as a metaphysical and determinist view of history. For example, Karl Popper in his book \"The Poverty of Historicism\" interpreted Hegel's philosophy of history as metaphysical and deterministic. Popper referred to this \"Hegelian\" philosophy of history as \"Historicism\".\n\nHegel's historicism also suggests that any human society and all human activities such as science, art, or philosophy, are defined by their history. Consequently, their essence can be sought only by understanding said history. The history of any such human endeavor, moreover, not only continues but also reacts against what has gone before; this is the source of Hegel's famous dialectic teaching usually summarized by the slogan \"thesis, antithesis, and synthesis\". (Hegel did not use these terms, although Johann Fichte did.) Hegel's famous aphorism, \"Philosophy is the history of philosophy,\" describes it bluntly.\n\nHegel's position is perhaps best illuminated when contrasted against the atomistic and reductionist opinion of human societies and social activities self-defining on an \"ad hoc\" basis through the sum of dozens of interactions. Yet another contrasting model is the persistent metaphor of a social contract. Hegel considers the relationship between individuals and societies as organic, not atomic: even their social discourse is mediated by language, and language is based on etymology and unique character. It thus preserves the culture of the past in thousands of half-forgotten metaphors. To understand why a person is the way he is, you must examine that person in his society: and to understand that society, you must understand its history, and the forces that influenced it. The \"Zeitgeist\", the \"Spirit of the Age,\" is the concrete embodiment of the most important factors that are acting in human history at any given time. This contrasts with teleological theories of activity, which suppose that the end is the determining factor of activity, as well as those who believe in a tabula rasa, or blank slate, opinion, such that individuals are defined by their interactions.\n\nThese ideas can be interpreted variously. The Right Hegelians, working from Hegel's opinions about the organicism and historically determined nature of human societies, interpreted Hegel's historicism as a justification of the unique destiny of national groups and the importance of stability and institutions. Hegel's conception of human societies as entities greater than the individuals who constitute them influenced nineteenth-century romantic nationalism and its twentieth-century excesses. The Young Hegelians, by contrast, interpreted Hegel's thoughts on societies influenced by social conflict for a doctrine of social progress, and attempted to manipulate these forces to cause various results. Karl Marx's doctrine of \"historical inevitabilities\" and historical materialism is one of the more influential reactions to this part of Hegel's thought. Significantly, Karl Marx's theory of alienation argues that capitalism disrupts traditional relationships between workers and their work.\n\nHegelian historicism is related to his ideas on the means by which human societies progress, specifically the dialectic and his conception of logic as representing the inner essential nature of reality. Hegel attributes the change to the \"modern\" need to interact with the world, whereas ancient philosophers were self-contained, and medieval philosophers were monks. In his History of Philosophy Hegel writes:\nIn modern times things are very different; now we no longer see philosophic individuals who constitute a class by themselves. With the present day all difference has disappeared; philosophers are not monks, for we find them generally in connection with the world, participating with others in some common work or calling. They live, not independently, but in the relation of citizens, or they occupy public offices and take part in the life of the state. Certainly they may be private persons, but if so, their position as such does not in any way isolate them from their other relationship. They are involved in present conditions, in the world and its work and progress. Thus their philosophy is only by the way, a sort of luxury and superfluity. This difference is really to be found in the manner in which outward conditions have taken shape after the building up of the inward world of religion. In modern times, namely, on account of the reconciliation of the worldly principle with itself, the external world is at rest, is brought into order — worldly relationships, conditions, modes of life, have become constituted and organized in a manner which is conformable to nature and rational. We see a universal, comprehensible connection, and with that individuality likewise attains another character and nature, for it is no longer the plastic individuality of the ancients. This connection is of such power that every individuality is under its dominion, and yet at the same time can construct for itself an inward world.\nThis opinion that entanglement in society creates an indissoluble bond with expression, would become an influential question in philosophy, namely, the requirements for individuality. It would be considered by Nietzsche, John Dewey and Michel Foucault directly, as well as in the work of numerous artists and authors. There have been various responses to Hegel's challenge. The Romantic period emphasized the ability of individual genius to transcend time and place, and use the materials from their heritage to fashion works which were beyond determination. The modern would advance versions of John Locke's infinite malleability of the human animal. Post-structuralism would argue that since history is not present, but only the image of history, that while an individual era or power structure might emphasize a particular history, that the contradictions within the story would hinder the very purposes that the history was constructed to advance.\n\nIn the context of anthropology and other sciences which study the past, historicism has a different meaning. Anthropological historicism is associated with the work of Franz Boas. His theory used the diffusionist concept that there were a few \"cradles of civilization\" which grew outwards, and merged it with the idea that societies would adapt to their circumstances, which is called historical particularism. The school of historicism grew in response to unilinear theories that social development represented adaptive fitness, and therefore existed on a continuum. While these theories were espoused by Charles Darwin and many of his students, their application as applied in social Darwinism and general evolution characterized in the theories of Herbert Spencer and Leslie White, historicism was neither anti-selection, nor anti-evolution, as Darwin never attempted nor offered an explanation for cultural evolution. However, it attacked the notion that there was one normative spectrum of development, instead emphasizing how local conditions would create adaptations to the local environment. Julian Steward refuted the viability of globally and universally applicable adaptive standards proposing that culture was honed adaptively in response to the idiosyncrasies of the local environment, the cultural ecology, by specific evolution. What was adaptive for one region might not be so for another. This conclusion has likewise been adopted by modern forms of biological evolutionary theory.\n\nThe primary method of historicism was empirical, namely that there were so many requisite inputs into a society or event, that only by emphasizing the data available could a theory of the source be determined. In this opinion, grand theories are unprovable, and instead intensive field work would determine the most likely explanation and history of a culture, and hence it is named \"historicism.\"\n\nThis opinion would produce a wide range of definition of what, exactly, constituted culture and history, but in each case the only means of explaining it was in terms of the historical particulars of the culture itself.\n\nSince the 1950s, when Jacques Lacan and Foucault argued that each epoch has its own knowledge system, within which individuals are inexorably entangled, many post-structuralists have used \"historicism\" to describe the opinion that all questions must be settled within the cultural and social context in which they are raised. Answers cannot be found by appeal to an external truth, but only within the confines of the norms and forms that phrase the question. This version of historicism holds that there are only the raw texts, markings and artifacts that exist in the present, and the conventions used to decode them. This school of thought is sometimes given the name of \"New Historicism\".\n\nThe same term, \"new historicism\" is also used for a school of literary scholarship which interprets a poem, drama, etc. as an expression of or reaction to the power-structures of its society. Stephen Greenblatt is an example of this school.\n\nWithin the context of 20th-century philosophy, debates continue as to whether ahistorical and immanent methods were sufficient to understand meaning—that is to say, \"what you see is what you get\" positivism—or whether context, background and culture are important beyond the mere need to decode words, phrases and references. While post-structural historicism is relativist in its orientation, that is, it sees each culture as its own frame of reference, a large number of thinkers have embraced the need for historical context, not because culture is self-referential, but because there is no more compressed means of conveying all of the relevant information except through history. This opinion is often seen as deriving from the work of Benedetto Croce. Recent historians using this tradition include Thomas Kuhn.\n\nIn Christianity, the term \"historicism\" refers to the confessional Protestant form of prophetical interpretation which holds that the fulfillment of biblical prophecy has occurred throughout history and continues to occur; as opposed to other methods which limit the time-frame of prophecy-fulfillment to the past or to the future.\n\nThere is also a particular opinion in ecclesiastical history and in the history of dogmas which has been described as historicist by Pope Pius XII in the encyclical \"Humani generis\". \"They add that the history of dogmas consists in the reporting of the various forms in which revealed truth has been clothed, forms that have succeeded one another in accordance with the different teachings and opinions that have arisen over the course of the centuries.\"\n\nThe social theory of Karl Marx, with respect to modern scholarship, has an ambiguous relation to historicism. Critics of Marx have charged his theory with historicism since its very genesis. However, the issue of historicism also finds itself important to many debates within Marxism itself; the charge of historicism has been made against various types of Marxism, typically disparaged by Marxists as \"vulgar\" Marxism.\n\nMarx himself expresses critical concerns with this historicist tendency in his Theses on Feuerbach:\n\nKarl Popper used the term \"historicism\" in his influential books \"The Poverty of Historicism\" and \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\", to mean: \"an approach to the social sciences which assumes that \"historical prediction\" is their primary aim, and which assumes that this aim is attainable by discovering the 'rhythms' or the 'patterns', the 'laws' or the 'trends' that underlie the evolution of history\". Karl Popper wrote with reference to Hegel's theory of history, which he criticized extensively. However, there is wide dispute whether Popper's description of \"historicism\" is an accurate description of Hegel, or more his characterisation of his own philosophical antagonists, including Marxist-Leninist thought, then widely held as posing a challenge to the philosophical basis of the West, as well as theories such as Spengler's which drew predictions about the future course of events from the past.\n\nIn \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\", Popper attacks \"historicism\" and its proponents, among whom (as well as Hegel) he identifies and singles out Plato and Marx—calling them all \"enemies of the open society\". The objection he makes is that historicist positions, by claiming that there is an inevitable and deterministic pattern to history, abrogate the democratic responsibility of each one of us to make our own free contributions to the evolution of society, and hence lead to totalitarianism.\n\nAnother of his targets is what he terms \"moral historicism\", the attempt to infer moral values from the course of history; in Hegel's words, that \"history is the world's court of justice\". This may take the form of conservatism (former might is right), positivism (might is right) or futurism (presumed coming might is right). As against these, Popper says that he does not believe \"that success proves anything or that history is our judge\". Futurism must be distinguished from prophecies that the right will prevail: these attempt to infer history from ethics, rather than ethics from history, and are therefore historicism in the normal sense rather than moral historicism.\n\nHe also attacks what he calls \"Historism\", which he regards as distinct from historicism. By historism, he means the tendency to regard every argument or idea as completely accounted for by its historical context, as opposed to assessing it by its merits. In Popperian terms, the \"New Historicism\" is an example of historism rather than of historicism proper.\n\nLeo Strauss used the term \"historicism\" and reportedly termed it the single greatest threat to intellectual freedom insofar as it denies any attempt to address injustice-pure-and-simple (such is the significance of historicism's rejection of \"natural right\" or \"right by nature\"). Strauss argued that historicism \"rejects political philosophy\" (insofar as this stands or falls by questions of permanent, trans-historical significance) and is based on the belief that \"all human thought, including scientific thought, rests on premises which cannot be validated by human reason and which came from historical epoch to historical epoch.\" Strauss further identified R. G. Collingwood as the most coherent advocate of historicism in the English language. Countering Collingwood's arguments, Strauss warned against historicist social scientists' failure to address real-life problems—most notably that of tyranny—to the extent that they relativize (or \"subjectivize\") all ethical problems by placing their significance strictly in function of particular or ever-changing socio-material conditions devoid of inherent or \"objective\" \"value.\" Similarly, Strauss criticized Eric Voegelin's abandonment of ancient political thought as guide or vehicle in interpreting modern political problems.\n\nIn his books, \"Natural Right and History\" and \"On Tyranny\", Strauss offers a complete critique of historicism as it emerges in the works of Hegel, Marx, and Heidegger. Many believe that Strauss also found historicism in Edmund Burke, Tocqueville, Augustine, and John Stuart Mill. Although it is largely disputed whether Strauss himself was a historicist, he often indicated that historicism grew out of and against Christianity and was a threat to civic participation, belief in human agency, religious pluralism, and, most controversially, an accurate understanding of the classical philosophers and religious prophets themselves. Throughout his work, he warns that historicism, and the understanding of progress that results from it, expose us to tyranny, totalitarianism, and democratic extremism. In his exchange with Alexandre Kojève in \"On Tyranny\", Strauss seems to blame historicism for Nazism and Communism. In a collection of his works by Kenneth Hart entitled \"Jewish Philosophy and the Crisis of Modernity\", he argues that Islam, traditional Judaism, and ancient Greece, share a concern for sacred law that makes them especially susceptible to historicism, and therefore to tyranny. Strauss makes use of Nietzsche's own critique of progress and historicism, although Strauss refers to Nietzsche himself (no less than to Heidegger) as a \"radical historicist\" who articulated a philosophical (if only untenable) justification for historicism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5540345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5540345", "title": "ISO 639:h", "text": "ISO 639:h\n\n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!hbo \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n"}
{"id": "182934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182934", "title": "John Howard (prison reformer)", "text": "John Howard (prison reformer)\n\nJohn Howard FRS (2 September 1726 – 20 January 1790) was a philanthropist and early English prison reformer.\nHoward was born in North London, either in Hackney or Enfield. His father, also John, was a wealthy upholsterer at Smithfield Market in the city. His mother Ann Pettitt died when he was five years old, and, described as a \"sickly child\", he was sent to live at Cardington, Bedfordshire, some fifty miles from London, where his father owned property. His father, a strict disciplinarian with strong religious beliefs, sent the young John to a school in Hertford and then to John Eames's dissenting academy in London.\n\nAfter school, John was apprenticed to a wholesale grocer to learn business methods, but he was unhappy. When his father died in 1742, he was left with a sizeable inheritance but no true vocation. His Calvinist faith and quiet, serious disposition meant he had little desire for the fashionable endeavours of an English aristocratic lifestyle. In 1748, he left England for a grand tour of the continent.\n\nUpon his return, he lived in lodgings in Stoke Newington, where he again became seriously ill. He was nursed back to health by his landlady, Sarah Loidore, whom he then married despite her being thirty years older than he was. She died within three years and he distributed her meagre belongings amongst her remaining family and poor neighbours.\n\nJohn Howard was considered eccentric by many of his contemporaries. It has been advanced by psychiatrist Philip Lucas and by mathematician Ioan Mackenzie James that Howard might have had Asperger's Syndrome.\n\nHe then set out for Portugal following the 1755 Lisbon earthquake, traveling on the \"Hanover\", which was captured by French privateers. He was imprisoned in Brest for six days before being transferred to another prison on the French coast. He was later exchanged for a French officer held by the British, and he quickly travelled to the Commissioners of Sick and Wounded Seamen in London to seek help on behalf of his fellow captives. It is widely believed that this personal experience generated Howard's interest in prisons.\n\nHaving returned from France, he settled again at Cardington, Bedfordshire to live on a estate which was formerly two farms, the larger of which he had inherited from his grandparents. His grandmother, Martha Howard, was a relation of the Whitbread family, and he became a neighbour and close friend of his cousin, Samuel Whitbread. He spent the next two years building properties and trying to improve the lives of the tenants living on his land. Later, a survey of Cardington in 1782 found that he was paying for the teaching of 23 children. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in May 1756.\n\nIn 1758, Howard married Henrietta Leeds who died in 1765, a week after giving birth to a son, also named John, who was sent to boarding school at a very young age. The younger John was sent down from Cambridge for homosexual offences, was judged insane at the age of 21, and died in 1799 having spent thirteen years in an asylum.\n\nJohn Howard was appointed High Sheriff of Bedfordshire in 1773, initially for a one-year period. Such was his dedication, rather than delegating his duties to the under-sheriff as was customary, Howard inspected the county prison himself. He was shocked by what he found, and spurred into action to inspect prisons throughout England. Of particular concern to Howard were those prisoners who were held because they could not pay the jailer's fee – an amount paid to the owner or keeper of the prison for upkeep. He took this issue to parliament, and in 1774 Howard was called to give evidence on prison conditions to a House of Commons select committee. Members of that committee were so impressed that, unusually, Howard was called to the bar of the House of Commons and publicly thanked for his \"humanity and zeal\".\n\nHaving visited several hundred prisons across England, Scotland, Wales and wider Europe, Howard published the first edition of \"The State of the Prisons\" in 1777. It included very detailed accounts of the prisons he had visited, including plans and maps, together with detailed instructions on the necessary improvements, especially regarding hygiene and cleanliness, the lack of which was causing many deaths. It is this work that has been credited as establishing the practice of single-celling in the United Kingdom and, by extension, in the United States. The following account, of the Bridewell at Abingdon, Oxfordshire, is typical:\n\nblockquote>Two dirty day-rooms; and three offensive night-rooms: That for men eight feet square: one of the women's, nine by eight; the other four and a half feet square: the straw, worn to dust, swarmed with vermin: no court: no water accessible to prisoners. The petty offenders were in irons: at my last visit, eight were women.\n\nHoward viewed his work as humanitarian. Terry Carlson, in his 1990 biographical tract on Howard, remarks:\n\nHoward's detailed proposals for improvements were designed to enhance the physical and mental health of the prisoners and the security and order of the prison. His recommendations pertaining to such matters as the prison location, plan and furnishings, the provision of adequate water supply, and prisoner's diet promoted hygiene and physical health. Recommendations concerning the quality of prison personnel, rules related to the maintenance of standards of health and order and an independent system of inspection, reflect the need for prison personnel to set a moral example.\n\nIn April 1777, Howard's sister died, leaving him £15,000 and her house. He used this inheritance and the revenue from the sale of her house to further his work on prisons. In 1778, he was again examined by the House of Commons, who were this time inquiring into \"hulks\", or prison ships. Two days after giving evidence, he was again travelling Europe, beginning in the Dutch Republic.\n\nBy 1784, Howard calculated that he had travelled over visiting prisons. He had been awarded an honorary LLD by the University of Dublin and had been given the Freedom of the City of London. His fourth and final tour of English prisons began in March 1787 and two years later he published \"The State of the Prisons in England, and An Account of the Principal Lazarettos of Europe\".\n\nHis final journey took him into Eastern Europe, and into Crimea. Whilst at Kherson, Howard contracted typhus on a prison visit and died, aged sixty-three. He was buried in a walled field at Dophinovka (Stepanovka), Ukraine. Despite requesting a quiet funeral without pomp and ceremony, the event was elaborate and attended by the Prince of Moldovia. When news of his death reached England in February 1790, a commemorative series of John Howard halfpenny Conder Tokens were struck, including one that circulated in Bath, on the reverse showing \"Go forth\" and \"Remember the Debtors in Gaol\".\n\nHoward became the first civilian to be honoured with a statue in St. Paul's Cathedral, London. A statue was also erected in Bedford, and a further one in Kherson. His bust features in the architecture of a number of Victorian prisons across the UK, such as at Shrewsbury. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1790.\n\nHoward's views on keeping prisoners in isolation were unavailingly opposed by Elizabeth Fry, who believed in the value of association.\n\nAlmost eighty years after his death, the Howard Association was formed in London, with the aim of \"promotion of the most efficient means of penal treatment and crime prevention\" and to promote \"a reformatory and radically preventive treatment of offenders\". In its first annual report in 1867, the Association stated that its efforts had been focused on \"the promotion of reformatory and remunerative prison labour, and the abolition of capital punishment.\" The Association merged with the Penal Reform League in 1921 to become the Howard League for Penal Reform. Today, the Howard League is Britain's biggest penal reform organisation.\n\nJohn Howard's name was adopted by non-profit organizations in Canada which call themselves the John Howard Society of their given geographic area and each society seeks to develop effective, just and humane responses to crime and its consequences. There are currently over 60 John Howard societies spread across every province of Canada and the Northwest Territories.\n\nThe Howard Association, a benevolent organisation founded in 1855 in Norfolk, Virginia, United States, was also named after him. There is also a Howard League for Penal Reform in New Zealand. The John Howard Association of Illinois, formed in 1901, independently monitors correctional facilities, policies and practices, and advances reforms needed to achieve a fair, humane and effective criminal justice system in Illinois.\n\nA statue to Howard is in St Paul's Cathedral, the first to a civilian, and a large bronze statue at Bedford was erected in 1890, the centenary of his death.\n\nA terracotta bust of John Howard is incorporated in the gatehouse of HM Prison Wormwood Scrubs, and another bust over the entrance to Shrewsbury Prison.\n\nThe John Howard Pavilion at St. Elizabeths Hospital in Washington, D.C., is the Forensic Psychiatric Hospital for the District of Columbia. Its most notorious inmate was John Hinckley, Jr., failed assassin of then US president Ronald Wilson Reagan in 1981.\n\nSamford University, located in the US state of Alabama, was founded by Baptists as Howard College in 1841. Samford's Howard College of Arts and Sciences remains the academic core of the university.\n\nJohn Howard School in Hackney is named after him.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1535090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1535090", "title": "Land development", "text": "Land development\n\nLand development is altering the landscape in any number of ways such as:\n\nIn an economics context, land development is also sometimes advertised as land improvement or land amelioration. It refers to investments making land more usable by humans. For accounting purposes it refers to any variety of projects that increase the value of the property. Most are depreciable, but some land improvements are not able to be depreciated because a useful life cannot be determined. Home building and containment are two of the most common and the oldest types of development.\n\nIn an urban context, land development furthermore includes:\n\nLandowner or developers on any size of project will often want to maximise profits, minimise risk and control cash flow. This \"profit enhancement\" means identifying and developing the best scheme for the local marketplace, whilst satisfying the local planning process.\n\nDevelopment Analysis puts development prospects and the development process itself under the microscope, identifying where enhancements and improvements can be introduced. These improvements aim to align with best design practice, political sensitivities, and the inevitable social requirements of a project, with the overarching objective of increasing land values and profit margins on behalf of the landowner or developer.\n\nDevelopment analysis can add significantly to the value of land and development, and as such is a crucial tool for landowners and developers. It is an essential step in Kevin A. Lynch's 1960 book \"The Image of the City\", and is considered to be essential to realizing the value potential of land. The landowner can share in additional planning gain (significant value uplift) via an awareness of the land's development potential. This is done via a residual development appraisal or residual valuation. The residual appraisal calculates the sale value of the end product (the Gross Development Value, or GDV), and hypothetically deducts costs, including planning and construction costs, finance costs and developer's profit. The \"residue\", or leftover proportion, represents the land value. Therefore, in maximising the GDV (that which one could build on the land), land value is concurrently enhanced.\n\nLand value is highly sensitive to supply and demand (for the end product), build costs, planning and affordable housing contributions, and so on. Understanding the intricacies of the development system and the effect of \"value drivers\" can result in massive differences in the landowner's sale value.\n\nLand development puts more emphasis on the expected economic development as a result of the process; \"land conversion\" tries to focus on the general physical and biological aspects of the land use change. \"Land improvement\" in the economic sense can often lead to land degradation from the ecological perspective. Land development and the change in land value does not usually take into account changes in the ecology of the developed area. While conversion of (rural) land with a vegetation carpet to building land may result in a rise in economic growth and rising land prices, the irreversibility of lost flora and fauna because of habitat destruction, the loss of ecosystem services and resulting decline in environmental value is only considered \"a priori\" in environmental full-cost accounting.\n\nConversion to building land is as a rule associated with road building, which in itself already brings topsoil abrasion, soil compaction and modification of the soil's chemical composition through soil stabilization, creation of impervious surfaces and, subsequently, (polluted) surface runoff water.\n\nConstruction activity often effectively seals off a larger part of the soil from rainfall and the nutrient cycle, so that the soil below buildings and roads is effectively \"consumed\" and made infertile.\n\nWith the notable exception of attempts at rooftop gardening and hanging gardens in green buildings (possibly as constituents of green urbanism), vegetative cover of higher plants is lost to concrete and asphalt surfaces, complementary interspersed garden and park areas notwithstanding.\n\nNew creation of farmland (or 'agricultural land conversion') will rely on the conversion and development of previous forests, savannas or grassland. Recreation of farmland from wasteland, deserts or previous impervious surfaces is considerably less frequent because of the degraded or missing fertile soil in the latter. Starting from forests, land is made arable by assarting or slash-and-burn. \nAgricultural development furthermore includes: \nBecause the newly created farmland is more prone to erosion than soil stabilized by tree roots, such a conversion may mean irreversible crossing of an ecological threshold.\n\nThe resulting deforestation is also not easily compensated for by reforestation or afforestation. This is because plantations of other trees as a means for water conservation and protection against wind erosion (shelterbelts), as a rule, lack the biodiversity of the lost forest, especially when realized as monocultures. Also, soil stabilization and erosion control measures may not be as effective in preserving topsoil as the previous intact vegetation.\n\nMassive land conversion without proper consideration of ecological and geological consequences may lead to disastrous results, such as: \n\nWhile deleterious effects can be particularly visible when land is developed for industrial or mining usage, agro-industrial and settlement use can also have a massive and sometimes irreversible impact on the affected ecosystem.\n\nExamples of land restoration/land rehabilitation counted as land development in the strict sense are still rare. However, renaturation, reforestation, stream restoration may all contribute to a healthier environment and quality of life, especially in densely populated regions. The same is true for planned vegetation like parks and gardens, but restoration plays a particular role, because it reverses previous conversions to built and agricultural areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "11918379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11918379", "title": "Language secessionism", "text": "Language secessionism\n\nLanguage secessionism (also known as linguistic secessionism or linguistic separatism) is an attitude supporting the separation of a language variety from the language to which it has hitherto been considered to belong, in order to make this variety considered as a distinct language. This phenomenon was first analyzed by Catalan sociolinguistics but it can be ascertained in other parts of the world.\n\nIn the Occitano-Catalan language area, language secessionism is a quite recent phenomenon that has developed only since the 1970s. Language secessionism affects both Occitan and Catalan languages with the following common features:\n\n\nIn Catalan, there are three cases:\n\nThere are three cases in Occitan:\n\nThe national language of Pakistan and official languages in many parts of India, the Khariboli dialect has become the chief language variety for use in Hindi and Urdu. Grammatically, Hindi and Urdu are the same but differ in their lexicons. Hindi tends to revitalize its Sanskrit words and purges words borrowed from Persian and Arabic while Urdu does the opposite. In essence, apart from their scripts, the lexicon is what distinguishes Urdu and Hindi. Also, there are other Indo-Aryan languages that are classed as Hindi but are not necessarily the same as Hindi and Urdu. Their dialects are close to the Khariboli dialect, which sets the grammatical standard over other Indo-Aryan languages both far and near. These languages will tend to diverge, especially through the influence and accents of surrounding native languages in the communities.\n\nIn Pakistan, Western Punjabi or Lahnda languages, with Saraiki (Multani), Panjistani (Mirpuri-Potohari), Hindko (Peshawari-Kohati), Dogri and Eastern Panjabi/Majhi as the principal standards, have been related linguistically to other Indo-Aryan languages.\n\nThe official standard language of Moldova is identical to Romanian. However, its official name in that country is \"Moldovan\" and at least Vasile Stati, a local linguist, has asserted that it is, in fact, a separate language in its own right. During the Soviet era, the USSR authorities officially recognized and promoted Moldovans and Moldovan as a distinct ethnicity and language. A Cyrillic alphabet was introduced in the Moldovan SSR to reinforce this claim. Since 1989 the official language switched to the Latin script and underwent the same language reforms as Romanian, but has retained its name, Moldovan.\nNowadays, the Cyrillic alphabet remains in official use only on the territories controlled by the breakaway authorities of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic, where it is named \"Moldovan\", as opposed to the Latin script version used elsewhere, which the local authorities call \"Romanian\".\n\nSerbo-Croatian has a strong structural unity, according to the vast majority of linguists who specialize in Slavic languages. However, the language is spoken by populations that have strong, different, national consciousnesses: Bosniaks, Croats, Montenegrins, and Serbs.\n\nSince the breakup of Yugoslavia in 1991, Serbo-Croatian has lost its unitary codification and its official unitary status. It is now divided into four official languages which follow separate codifications: Bosnian language, Croatian language, Montenegrin language and the Serbian language.\n\nThe common Serbo-Croatian system still exists in a (socio)linguistic point of view: it is a pluricentric language, being cultivated through four voluntarily diverging normative varieties, Croatian, Bosnian, Montenegrin, and Serbian, which are sometimes considered as Ausbau languages. However, Ausbau languages must have different dialect basis, whereas Croatian, Bosnian, Montenegrin and Serbian standard variants have the same dialect basis (Štokavian):\n\nOn the contrary, the Serbo-Croatian kind of language secessionism is now a strongly consensual and institutional majority phenomenon. Still, this doesn't make it legitimate to say that such a language secessionism has led to \"Ausbau languages\" in the cases of Croatian, Bosnian, Montenegrin and Serbian, because such diversion has not taken place:\n\nThe Portuguese kingdom, a former southern county split from the Kingdom of Galicia and fief of the Kingdom of Leon, was created by Afonso I of Portugal in 1126 and expanded towards the Islamic south, like its neighbouring kingdoms. That part of Galicia, named Portugal, became independent while the northern part of the country remained under the Kingdom of León during the 12th century and early 13th century. Northern Galicia would later be ruled by the Kingdom of Castile, which would become the core and ethnic base for the future Spain; but the culture was the same on both sides of the political border. Galician-Portuguese culture attained great prestige during the Low Middle Ages. In the late 15th century, Castilian domination became harder, banishing their language in all official uses, including the church.\n\nGalician-Portuguese survived diglossically for the following centuries among the peasant population, but it experienced a strong Spanish influence and had a different evolution. Meanwhile, the same language (for the reintegrationist view) remained fully official in Portugal and was carried across the world by Portuguese explorers, soldiers and colonists.\n\nDuring the 19th century a revival movement arose. This movement defended the Galician language, and created a provisional norm, with a Castilian orthography and many loanwords. When autonomy was granted, a norm and orthography (based in \"rexurdimento\" writers) (Galician literature) for a Galician language was created. This norm is taught and used in schools and universities of Galicia. But most writers (Castelao, Risco, Otero Pedrayo) did not support the traditional Galician forms; some of them based in Spanish orthography even if they recognized the essential linguistic unity, saying that the priority was achieving political autonomy and being read by the population. Other writers wrote with a Portuguese-like orthography (e.g. Guerra da Cal and Carvalho Calero).\n\nReintegrationists claim that the official norm (released in 1982) was imposed by the Spanish state, with the covert intent of severing Galician from Portuguese. But this idea is rejected by the Real Academia Galega, which supports the official norm.\n\nReintegrationist and Lusist groups are protesting against this so-called language secessionism, which they call Castrapism (from \"castrapo\", something like \"patois\") or Isolationism. Unlike in the case of Valencian Blaverism, isolationism has no impact in the scientific community of linguists, and it is supported for a small number of them but still has clear political support.\n\nGalician-Portuguese linguistic unity until the 16th century seems to be consensus, as does both Galician and European Portuguese being closer to each other and to the more conservative Portuguese variants of Brazil and Africa in the 18th century than in the 19th century, and also closer in the 19th century than in the 20th century and now. In this period, while Galician for the most part lost vowel reduction, velarization of and nasal vowels, and some speech registers of it adhered to \"yeísmo\", all making it phonologically closer to Spanish. For example, European Portuguese had splits that created two new vowel phonemes, one of them usually an allophone only in the case of vowel reduction and the other phonetically absent in any other variant. Some dialects had a merger of three of its oral diphthongs and another three of its nasal vowels, and together with Brazilian Portuguese absorbed more than 5000 loanwords from French as well as 1500 from English.\n\nIt seems that the debate for a greater integration among Portuguese-speaking countries had the result of a single writing standard (1990 Portuguese Language Orthographic Agreement), often shunned by some segments of Portuguese media and population but long waited and cheered by Brazilians despite occasional criticism to some aspects and that changed the spelling of between 0.5% and 1% of the words in both former varieties, with minor respect to major dialect phonological differences. The other debate, whether Galician should use the same standard of Portuguese (Lusism), a standard with minor differences (Reintegrationism), a re-approximation of both through another Lusophone spelling agreement that would give particular regional differences such as that of Galician as well as major diverging dialects of Portuguese (especially in South America) more room (Reintegrationism), or the present standard based on the Spanish orthography, still did not cast official attention of government authorities in any of the involved countries, even if Lusophone support is expected to be strong in any of the first three cases.\n\nA point often held by minorities among both Reintegrationists/Lusists and Lusophonists is that Portuguese should have a more conservative and uniform international speech standard that at the same time respected minor phonological differences between its variants (such as a complete free choice of the various allophones of the rhotic consonant , for or for the voiceless allophone of ) that would further strength Lusophone integration (while sung European Portuguese is comprehensible to untrained Brazilians, this is not the case for even the media standard of Galician, let alone more colloquial varieties), but this is not especially welcomed by any party in Europe, much because as the adoption of the 1990 OA in 2009–2012 proved, the Portuguese are often very reticent of the adoption of things seen as giving preference, even if minor, to Brazil.\n\nRepublic Act No. 7104, approved on August 14, 1991, created the Commission on the Filipino Language, reporting directly to the President and tasked to undertake, coordinate and promote researches for the development, propagation and preservation of Filipino and other Philippine languages. On May 13, 1992, the commission issued Resolution 92-1, specifying that Filipino is the\n\nThough the Commission on the Filipino Language recognizes that a lot of the vocabulary of Filipino is based on Tagalog, the latest definition given to the national language tries to evade the use of the term \"Tagalog\".\n\nAccording to some Filipinologists (people who specialize in the study of Filipino as a language), the main reason that Filipino is distinct from Tagalog is that in Filipino, there is a presence of vocabulary coming from other Philippine languages, such as Cebuano (such as \"bana\" - husband), Hiligaynon (such as \"buang\" - insane) and Ilocano (such as \"ading\" - little brother). They also maintain that the term Tagalog is the language of the Katagalugan or the Tagalog Region and puristic in a sense. It lacks certain phonemes like /f/ and /v/, which makes it incapable of producing some indigenous proper nouns \"Ifugao\" and \"Ivatan\". Curiously, proponents of language secessionism are unable to account for the glaring absence of long vowel, phonemic in Tausug, in Filipino phonology or for the absence of a schwa. Arguments for secessionism generally ignore the fact that the various languages of the Philippines have divergent phonologies.\n\nAmong Chinese speakers, Cantonese, Hokkien and other varieties of Chinese are often referred to as dialects (), instead of languages (), despite the fact that those languages/dialects are hard to understand for Mandarin speakers who are the majority of Chinese speakers unless they write things down. There are debates over whether those varieties of the Chinese language should be separate languages.\n\nIn the Hokkien dialect () , which is widely used in Fujian, Taiwan, and other areas, it is debated that whether Taiwanese dialect () should be separated from the Hokkien language as the Taiwanese language (), although people from Fujian and Taiwan can communicate with each other despite some differences in vocabulary. Such debates may be associated with politics of Taiwan.\n\nHowever, some scholars believe that Hokkien should be the most standard accent of Chinese in history, regarding the Standard Chinese based on Beijing accent as an alienized dialect deeply influenced by non-Han minorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "30131347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30131347", "title": "Lazarre Seymour Simckes", "text": "Lazarre Seymour Simckes\n\nLazarre Seymour Simckes is an award-winning playwright, novelist, educator, Hebrew-English translator, and psychotherapist. He has developed approaches to the use of creative writing in areas including prison therapy and cross-cultural communication between students in the Middle East.\n\nSimckes, descended from a long line of rabbis (including his father Herbert Isaac Simckes, grandfather Mnachem Risikoff and great-grandfather Zvi Yosef Resnick), was born in Saratoga Springs, New York, and raised in Boston. He is a graduate of Harvard College (Magna Cum Laude, Phi Beta Kappa), Stanford University (Wallace Stegner Writing Fellow, M.A.), and Harvard University (Ph.D.). He has taught at colleges and universities throughout the United States including Harvard, Yale, Williams, Vassar, Brandeis and Tufts, as well as at Bar-Ilan and the University of Haifa in Israel. He has also conducted live, interactive writing workshops via satellite linking middle school and high school students across the country, including the Virgin Islands. During his Fulbright year at the University of Haifa, he conducted a similar workshop linking Israeli Arab and Jewish high school students with their counterparts in America (\"Celebrating Differences\").\n\nHis first play, \"Seven Days of Mourning\" (adapted from his novel published by Random House), was staged on Broadway at Circle in the Square. Clive Barnes called it \"spiky, yet intensely moving. A \"Fiddler on the Roof\" without music, but with blood. Unique, wild, funny. It still haunts me.\" He wrote the off-off-Broadway play \"Ten Best Martyrs of the Year\", a Theater for the New City (TNC) production directed by Crystal Field, about the ten rabbis who were tortured to death in Rome for supporting the revolt led by Bar Kokhbah in 2nd century Palestine. Simckes said of that play, \"I tend to make tragic comment in a mixture of styles. So what did I do? I wrote a play as if through the eyes of Hadrian, the Roman emperor, watching the genocide of the Jews from his balcony.\" The play was reviewed by Michael Smith in \"The Village Voice\" as \"timeless, mythic, enlivened by all kinds of stylistic intrusions and an almost hysterical inventiveness.\"\n\nAnother of his off-off-Broadway productions, \"Nossig's Antics\", also a TNC production directed by Crystal Field, focuses on the character of Alfred Nossig, who was accused of collaborating with Nazis in the Warsaw Ghetto, and executed in 1943, just before his 80th birthday, by a Jewish fighters organization. The critic Richard McBee called it \"a riveting puzzle,\" and it has also been described as a \"dark farce\" and an \"absurd exploration of history and the horrific times we live in.\"\n\nHis other plays include \"Minutes\", a fictional encounter between Sigmund Freud and Gustav Mahler; \"Soldier Boys\" about Czar Nicholas's 1827 edict to recruit Jews into the Russian army for the first time, including children as Cadets, which had a reading at Theater for the New City with Judd Hirsch as the Czar; and \"Open Rehearsal,\" chosen by Edward Albee as first runner-up in the inaugural 2006-2007 Yale Drama Series Competition, He also wrote the screenplay for Sidney Lumet's movie version of \"The Last Temptation of Christ\", which has not yet been produced.\n\nSimckes's first published work was a translation of two stories by the Israeli author, S. Y. Agnon, followed by the short story, \"Behold My Servant!\", published in Stanford Short Stories 1962. His novels include \"Seven Days in Mourning\" and \"The Comatose Kids\". He has translated a number of works from Hebrew to English, including \"Adam Resurrected\", \"The Chocolate Deal\", and \"Commander of the Exodus\". He also translated Nava Semel's children's book, \"Becoming Gershona,\" about a twelve-year-old girl in 1958 Tel Aviv.\n\nIn addition to Hebrew, Simckes is fluent in Yiddish, and according to the director of the film \"Kvetch\", Austin Kase, Simckes was one of the inspirations for the movie, and also appeared in it.\n\nAs a practicing psychotherapist, Simckes has worked with multi-problem families and imprisoned sex offenders.\n\nAn article in \"The Israeli Fulbrighter\" notes that Simckes found a \"dual vocation as a writer and healer.\" After studying at the Kantor Family Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts, he began using brief writing assignments with patients in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, to help them deal with their problems. He continued working on this idea and eventually launched writing workshops in community centers, \"attempting to foster literacy, empathy, listening skills, insight, respect, and resolution of conflict.\" He believes writing exercises are especially effective because \"they serve to highlight the problem in a way that it can be dealt with.\"\n\nSimckes has tried to bring all his talents and experiences to bear in his efforts among Israelis and Palestinians. He made \"fostering cross-cultural insights and empathy\" in the \"interlocked perspectives surrounding the Arab/Israeli encounter\" the core of his Fulbright year in Israel, at the University of Haifa.\nAmong his initiatives were a creative writing seminar, \"The Mirror of Fiction\", and a two-way live interactive video workshop, \"Celebrating Differences\", broadcast on February 27, 1996. The live interactive TV seminar linked American high school students in the United States with Jewish and Arab students (both Israeli and Palestinian) in Israel. \"He created a live bridge and prompted the participants to share their experiences on handling differences,\" helping the students gain new insights about one another.\n\nTo prepare for the Israeli video program, broadcast through the Massachusetts Corporation for Educational Telecommunications, Simckes made frequent visits to Nazareth, Beit Hagefen, and Jish to find students who were comfortable with writing spontaneously, and sharing their writing on the air—and prepared to listen, not just \"to yell at each other.\"\n\nSimckes has strong feelings about the use of English in workshops that involve both Israeli and Palestinians, because it is a \"bridge language\" and a \"diffuser of power\" in a political sense, interrupting \"the implication of power through language.\"\n\nHe believes that the ability to listen is critical to both writing and healing, and hopes his writing workshops strengthen that skill. If people \"can hear each other,\" he says, \"they become a community.\"\n\nHis awards include two National Endowment of the Arts fellowships and the National Jewish Book Award, as well as receiving the Best Actor award for his performance in the award-winning Comedy short-film, Kvetch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47626854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47626854", "title": "Lebanese people in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Lebanese people in Saudi Arabia\n\nLebanese people in Saudi Arabia have a population exceeding 120,000 and other estimates report a total of 299,000 Lebanese in Saudi Arabia. Lebanese people form one of the largest community of non-citizen Arabs in Saudi Arabia. In addition, an increasing number of Lebanese students seeking education and career opportunities opted for the country in light of its relatively reputable institutions across the Middle East.\n\nThe Lebanese people tend to be spread out over various parts of the country, with areas of high concentration being Riyadh, Jeddah, and Dammam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16980309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16980309", "title": "List of English-language literary presses", "text": "List of English-language literary presses\n\nLiterary presses are publishing companies that publish books with a literary or artistic emphasis. This is a list of publishing companies and imprints whose primary emphasis is on literature and the arts. It does not include exclusively online publishers, academic publishers (who often publish very limited print runs, but for a different market), or businesses operating solely as printers, such as print-on-demand companies or vanity presses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "884090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=884090", "title": "List of rulers of the Nandi", "text": "List of rulers of the Nandi\n\nList of Rulers of the Nandi (Kenya), or Orkoiyots:\n\n\nThe Orkoiyots originated as chief ritual leaders (or \"medicine men\", later emerging as leaders exercising both political and military authority. The position is hereditary, and the dynasty descend from Maasai origins.\n"}
{"id": "231829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231829", "title": "Magnolia (film)", "text": "Magnolia (film)\n\nMagnolia is a 1999 American epic drama film written, co-produced and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson. The film stars Jeremy Blackman, Tom Cruise, Melinda Dillon, Philip Baker Hall, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Ricky Jay, William H. Macy, Alfred Molina, Julianne Moore, John C. Reilly, Jason Robards and Melora Walters, and is a mosaic of interrelated characters in search of happiness, forgiveness and meaning in the San Fernando Valley.\n\n\"Magnolia\" received positive reviews, with critics praising its acting, direction, storytelling, ambition, and its soundtrack, largely consisting of Aimee Mann songs; however, some deemed it overlong and melodramatic. Of the ensemble cast, Tom Cruise was nominated for Best Supporting Actor at the 72nd Academy Awards, and won the award in that category at the Golden Globes of 2000. The film also won the Golden Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival. It was Robards' final feature film.\n\nThe narrator recounts three instances of incredible coincidences and suggests that forces greater than chance play important roles in life.\n\nPolice officer Jim Kurring investigates a disturbance at a woman's apartment, finding a body in a closet. Dixon, a neighborhood boy, tries to tell him who committed the murder but Jim is dismissive. Jim goes to the apartment of Claudia Wilson. Claudia's neighbors called the police after she had an argument with her estranged father, children's game show host Jimmy Gator, and then blasted music while snorting cocaine. Unaware of her addiction, Jim is attracted to her and prolongs the visit. He asks her on a date that night; she says yes.\n\nJimmy hosts a long-running quiz show called \"What Do Kids Know?\" and is dying of cancer; he has only a few months to live. That night the newest child prodigy on the show, Stanley Spector, takes the lead as the show begins. He is hounded by his father for the prize money and demeaned by the surrounding adults, who refuse to let him use the bathroom during a commercial break. When the show resumes, he wets himself and freezes, humiliated when everyone realizes what happened. As the show continues an inebriated Jimmy sickens, and he orders the show to go on after he collapses onstage. But after Stanley's father berates him for freezing on air, Stanley refuses to return for the final round.\n\nDonnie Smith, a former \"What Do Kids Know?\" champion, watches the show from a bar. Donnie's parents spent the money he won as a child, a lightning strike has damaged his mental capacity, and he has just been fired from his job at Solomon & Solomon, an electronics store, due to chronic lateness and poor sales. He is obsessed with getting oral surgery, thinking he will land the man of his dreams after he gets braces. He hatches a plan to get back at his boss by stealing the money he needs for his braces.\n\nThe show's former producer, Earl Partridge, is also dying of cancer. Earl's trophy wife, Linda, collects his prescriptions for morphine while he is cared for by a nurse, Phil Parma. Earl asks Phil to find his estranged son, Frank Mackey, a motivational speaker peddling a pickup artist course to men. Frank is in the midst of an interview with a journalist who reveals that she knows Frank had to take care of his dying mother after Earl abandoned the family. An angry Frank storms out of the interview when Phil gets through to him.\n\nLinda goes to see Earl's lawyer, begging him to change Earl's will. She admits she married Earl for his money, but now loves him and does not want it. The lawyer suggests she renounce the will and refuse the money, which would go to Frank. Linda rejects his advice and leaves in a rage. Linda berates Phil for seeking out Frank, but later apologizes. She drives to a vacant parking lot and washes down handfuls of prescription medicine with alcohol. Dixon finds Linda in her car, near death, and calls an ambulance after taking money from her purse.\n\nBefore his date with Claudia, Jim takes fire during a pursuit and loses his gun. When he meets Claudia they promise to be honest with each other, so he confesses his ineptitude as a cop and admits he has not been on a date since he was divorced three years earlier. Claudia says he will hate her because of her problems, but Jim assures her that her past does not matter. They kiss, but she runs off.\n\nJimmy Gator goes home to his wife Rose and confesses that he cheated on her. She asks why Claudia does not talk to him, and Jimmy admits that Claudia believes he molested her. Rose demands to know if it is true, but Jimmy says he cannot remember whether he abused Claudia. Rose tells Jimmy he deserves to die alone, and she walks out on him. Jimmy decides to kill himself.\n\nDonnie takes money from the Solomon & Solomon safe. As he drives away, he decides to return the money, but discovers he cannot get back in as his key broke off in the lock. While climbing a utility pole to get on the roof, he is seen by a passing Jim. Suddenly, frogs begin falling from the sky, with multiple consequences: as Jimmy is about to kill himself, frogs fall through his skylight, causing him to shoot the TV which sets his house on fire; Rose crashes her car in front of Claudia's apartment, but makes it inside and reconciles with her daughter; Earl dies as Frank watches the frogs; Linda's ambulance crashes in front of the emergency room; and Donnie is knocked from the pole and smashes his teeth, then is dragged to safety by Jim.\n\nJim counsels Donnie and helps him return the money; his gun falls from the sky. Frank goes to the hospital to be with Linda, who will recover from her attempted suicide. Stanley, on his way to bed, tells his father that he needs to be nicer to him, but his father ignores him and tells him to go to bed. Jim goes to see Claudia, telling her he wants to make things work between them; she smiles in reply.\n\nAnderson started to get ideas for \"Magnolia\" during the long editing period of \"Boogie Nights\" (1997). As he got closer to finishing the film, he started writing down material for his new project. After the critical and financial success of \"Boogie Nights\", New Line Cinema, who backed that film, told Anderson that he could do whatever he wanted and the filmmaker realized that, \"I was in a position I will never ever be in again\". Michael De Luca, then Head of Production at New Line, made the deal for \"Magnolia\", granting Anderson final cut without hearing an idea for the film. Originally, Anderson had wanted to make a film that was \"intimate and small-scale\", something that he could shoot in 30 days. He had the title of \"Magnolia\" in his head before he wrote the script. As he started writing, the script \"kept blossoming\" and he realized that there were many actors he wanted to write for and then decided to put \"an epic spin on topics that don't necessarily get the epic treatment\". He wanted to \"make the epic, the all-time great San Fernando Valley movie\". Anderson started with lists of images, words and ideas that \"start resolving themselves into sequences and shots and dialogue\", actors, and music. The first image he had for the film was the smiling face of actress Melora Walters. The next image that came to him was of Philip Baker Hall as her father. Anderson imagined Hall walking up the steps of Walters' apartment and having an intense confrontation with her. Anderson also did research on the magnolia tree and discovered a concept that eating the tree's bark helped cure cancer.\n\nBefore Anderson became a filmmaker, one of the jobs he had was as an assistant for a television game show, \"Quiz Kid Challenge\", an experience he incorporated into the script for \"Magnolia\". He also claimed in interviews that the film is structured somewhat like \"A Day in the Life\" by The Beatles, and \"it kind of builds up, note by note, then drops or recedes, then builds again\". The production designers looked at films with close, tight color palettes, films that were warm and analyzed why they did that and then applied it to \"Magnolia\". They also wanted to evoke the colors of the magnolia flower: greens, browns and off-whites. For the section of the prologue that is set in 1911, Anderson used a hand-cranked Pathé camera that would have been used at the time. Some of the actors were nervous about singing the lyrics to Mann's \"Wise Up\" in the film's climactic scene and so Anderson had Moore do it first and she set the pace and everyone else followed.\n\nAnderson and New Line reportedly had intense arguments about how to market \"Magnolia\". He felt that the studio did not do a decent enough job on \"Boogie Nights\" and did not like the studio's poster or trailer for \"Magnolia\". Anderson ended up designing his own poster, cut together a trailer himself, wrote the liner notes for the soundtrack album, and pushed to avoid hyping Cruise's presence in the film in favor of the ensemble cast. Even though Anderson ultimately got his way, he realized that he had to \"learn to fight without being a jerk. I was a bit of a baby. At the first moment of conflict, I behaved in a slightly adolescent knee-jerk way. I just screamed.\" In a \"Rolling Stone\" article, published around the time of \"Magnolia\"'s release, Anderson said that he walked out of \"Fight Club\" after the first half hour and criticized its director, David Fincher, for making jokes about cancer, saying that he should get it as punishment. Afterwards, Anderson wrote Fincher a note apologizing and explained that he had lost his sense of humor about cancer.\n\nAnderson is known for his use of long takes in his films, moving along considerable distances with complex pivoting movements and transitions in actors and background. Of the long takes in \"Magnolia\", the most notable may be the 2 minutes 15 seconds where character Stanley Spector arrives at the studio for a taping of \"What Do Kids Know?\", the camera seamlessly moving through multiple rooms and hallways, transitioning to follow different characters throughout the take.\n\nBy the time he started writing the script, Anderson was listening to Aimee Mann's music. Anderson used her two solo albums and some demo tracks from a new album that Mann was working on as a basis and inspiration for the film.\n\nIn particular, Mann's song \"Deathly\", on her album \"Bachelor No. 2 or, the Last Remains of the Dodo\", inspired the character of Claudia. At one point in the movie, Claudia uses part of the lyric as dialogue in the film (\"Now that I've met you/Would you object to/Never seeing each other again\").\n\nThe character of Jim Kurring originated in the summer of 1998 when actor John C. Reilly grew a mustache out of interest and started putting together an unintelligent cop character. He and Anderson did a few parodies of \"COPS\" with the director chasing Reilly around the streets with a video camera. Actress Jennifer Jason Leigh made an appearance in one of these videos. Some of Kurring's dialogue came from these sessions. This time around, Reilly wanted to do something different and told Anderson that he was \"always cast as these heavies or these semi-retarded child men. Can't you give me something I can relate to, like falling in love with a girl?\" Anderson also wanted to make Reilly a romantic lead because it was something different that the actor had not done before.\n\nFor Philip Seymour Hoffman, Anderson wanted him to play a \"really simple, uncomplicated, caring character\". The actor described his character as someone who \"really takes pride in the fact that every day he's dealing with life and death circumstances\". With Julianne Moore in mind, the director wrote a role for her to play a crazed character using many pharmaceuticals. According to the actress, \"Linda doesn't know who she is or what she's feeling and can only try to explain it in the most vulgar terms possible\". For William H. Macy, Anderson felt that the actor was scared of big, emotional parts and wrote for him, \"a big tearful, emotional part\".\n\nWhile convincing Philip Baker Hall to do the film by explaining the significance of the rain of frogs, the actor told him a story about when he was in the mountains of Italy and got caught in bad weather—a mix of rain, snow and tiny frogs. Hall had to pull off the road until the storm passed. According to an interview, Hall said that he based the character of Jimmy Gator on real-life TV personalities such as Bob Barker and Arthur Godfrey. The rain of frogs was inspired by the works of Charles Fort and Anderson claims that he was unaware that it was also a reference in The Bible when he first wrote the sequence. At the time the filmmaker came across the notion of a rain of frogs, he was \"going through a weird, personal time\", and he started to understand \"why people turn to religion in times of trouble, and maybe my form of finding religion was reading about rains of frogs and realizing that makes sense to me somehow\".\n\nTom Cruise was a fan of Anderson's previous film, \"Boogie Nights\", and contacted the filmmaker while he was working on Stanley Kubrick's \"Eyes Wide Shut\" (1999). Anderson met with Cruise on the set of Kubrick's film and the actor told him to keep him in mind for his next film. After Anderson finished the script, he sent Cruise a copy and the next day, the actor called him. Cruise was interested but nervous about the role. They met with Cruise along with De Luca who helped convince the actor to do the film. Frank T.J. Mackey, the character that Cruise would play in the film, was based in part on an audio-recording done in an engineering class taught by a friend that was given to Anderson. It consisted of two men, \"talking all this trash\" about women and quoting a man named Ross Jeffries, who was teaching a new version of the Eric Weber course, \"How to Pick Up Women,\" but utilizing hypnotism and subliminal language techniques. Anderson transcribed the tape and did a reading with Reilly and Chris Penn. The director then incorporated this dialogue and his research on Jeffries and other self-help gurus into Mackey and his sex seminar. Anderson felt that Cruise was drawn to the role because he had just finished making \"Eyes Wide Shut\", playing a repressed character, and was able to then play a character that was \"outlandish and bigger-than-life\".\n\nAnderson wrote the role of Earl Partridge for Jason Robards, but Robards was initially unable to do it because of a serious staph infection. Anderson approached George C. Scott, who turned him down. Eventually, Robards was able to do the film. Robards said of his character, \"It was sort of prophetic that I be asked to play a guy going out in life. It was just so right for me to do this and bring what I know to it\". According to Hall, much of the material with Partridge was based on Anderson watching his father die of cancer.\n\nAnderson wanted Burt Reynolds to star in the film, but Reynolds declined it.\n\nAnderson met Aimee Mann in 1996 when he asked her husband, Michael Penn, to write the score and songs for his film, \"Hard Eight\". Mann had songs on soundtracks before but never \"utilized in such an integral way\" she said in an interview. She gave Anderson rough mixes of songs and found that they both wrote about the same kinds of characters. He encouraged her to write songs for the film by sending her a copy of the script.\n\nTwo songs were written expressly for the film: \"You Do\", which was based on a character later cut from the film, and \"Save Me\", which closes the film; the latter was nominated in the 2000 Academy Awards and Golden Globes and in the 2001 Grammys. Most of the remaining seven Mann songs were demos and works in progress; \"Wise Up\", which is at the center of a sequence in which all of the characters sing the song, was originally written for the 1996 film \"Jerry Maguire\". At the time Mann's record label had refused to release her songs on an album. The song that plays at the opening of the film is Mann's cover of \"One\" by Harry Nilsson. Mann's track \"Momentum\" is used as the loud playing music in Claudia's apartment scene when Officer Jim arrives and was also featured in the trailer for the film.\n\nThe soundtrack album, released in December 1999 on Reprise Records, features the Mann songs, as well as a section of Jon Brion's score and tracks by Supertramp and Gabrielle that were used in the film. Reprise released a full score album in March 2000.\n\n\"Magnolia\" initially opened in a limited release on December 17, 1999, in seven theaters grossing USD$193,604. The film was given a wide release on January 7, 2000, in 1,034 theaters grossing $5.7 million on its opening weekend. It eventually grossed $22,455,976 in North America and $25,995,827 in the rest of the world with a worldwide tally of $48,451,803, above its budget of $37 million.\n\nWhile \"Magnolia\" struggled at the box office, it was well-received critically. it has an 83% rating at Rotten Tomatoes, based on 119 \"fresh\" reviews out of 144. \"USA Today\" gave the film three-and-a-half stars out of four and called it \"the most imperfect of the year's best movies\". In the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", Roger Ebert praised the film, saying: \"\"Magnolia\" is the kind of film I instinctively respond to. Leave logic at the door. Do not expect subdued taste and restraint, but instead a kind of operatic ecstasy\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film a \"B+\" rating, praising Cruise's performance: \"It's with Cruise as Frank T.J. Mackey, a slick televangelist of penis power, that the filmmaker scores his biggest success, as the actor exorcises the uptight fastidiousness of \"Eyes Wide Shut\" ... Like John Travolta in \"Pulp Fiction\", this cautiously packaged movie star is liberated by risky business\". \"The Independent\" said that the film was \"limitless. And yet some things do feel incomplete, brushed-upon, tangential. \"Magnolia\" does not have the last word on anything. But is superb\". Kenneth Turan, in his review for the \"Los Angeles Times\", praised Tom Cruise's performance: \"Mackey gives Cruise the chance to cut loose by doing amusing riffs on his charismatic superstar image. It's great fun, expertly written and performed, and all the more enjoyable because the self-parody element is unexpected\". In his review for \"The New York Observer\", Andrew Sarris wrote, \"In the case of \"Magnolia\", I think Mr. Anderson has taken us to the water's edge without plunging in. I admire his ambition and his very eloquent camera movements, but if I may garble something Lenin once said one last time, 'You can't make an omelet without breaking some eggs'.\"\n\nIn her review for \"The New York Times\", Janet Maslin wrote, \"But when that group sing-along arrives, \"Magnolia\" begins to self-destruct spectacularly. It's astonishing to see a film begin this brilliantly only to torpedo itself in its final hour,\" but went on to say that the film \"was saved from its worst, most reductive ideas by the intimacy of the performances and the deeply felt distress signals given off by the cast\". Philip French, in his review for \"The Observer\", wrote, \"But is the joyless universe he (Anderson) presents any more convincing than the Pollyanna optimism of traditional sitcoms? These lives are somehow too stunted and pathetic to achieve the level of tragedy\". \"Time\" magazine's Richard Schickel wrote, \"The result is a hard-striving, convoluted movie, which never quite becomes the smoothly reciprocating engine Anderson (who did \"Boogie Nights\") would like it to be\".\n\nIn an interview, Ingmar Bergman mentioned \"Magnolia\" as an example of the \"strength of American cinema.\" Roger Ebert included the work in his \"Great Movies\" list in November 2008, saying, \"As an act of filmmaking, it draws us in and doesn't let go.\" \"Total Film\" magazine placed it at number 4 in their list of 50 Best Movies in Total Film's lifetime. In 2008, it was named the 89th greatest movie of all time by \"Empire\" magazine in its issue of \"The 500 Greatest Movies of All Time\". It received eight votes – five from critics and three from directors – in the British Film Institute's 2012 \"Sight & Sound\" polls.\n\nFollowing the film's release, Anderson said: \"I really feel... That \"Magnolia\" is, for better or worse, the best movie I'll ever make.\" Later, however, he came to consider it overlong; when asked in a Reddit AMA what he would tell himself to do if he could go back to when he shot the movie, his response was \"Chill The Fuck Out and Cut Twenty Minutes.\"\n\n\"Magnolia\" was nominated for two Golden Globe Awards in 2000, Cruise for Best Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture and Mann for Best Original Song for \"Save Me\". Cruise won the Golden Globe. The film was also nominated for three Academy Awards, including Cruise for Best Supporting Actor, Anderson for Best Original Screenplay, and Aimee Mann's \"Save Me\" for Best Original Song. \"Magnolia\" did not win in any categories for which it was nominated. Anderson's film won the Golden Bear at the 50th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nThe Toronto Film Critics Association Awards named \"Magnolia\" the Best Film of 1999 and gave Anderson Best Director honors. His screenplay was also tied with those of \"Being John Malkovich\" and \"American Beauty\" as the best of the year. Philip Seymour Hoffman and Julianne Moore won Supporting Actor and Actress awards from the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures.\n\n2000 Academy Awards\n\n2000 Broadcast Film Critics Association Awards\n\n2001 Grammy Awards\n\n2000 Screen Actors Guild Awards\n\nIn 2004, the American Film Institute nominated the song \"Save Me\" from this film for AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs.\n\nEssays have been written on the themes in \"Magnolia\", such as regret; loneliness; the cost of failed relationships as a result of parents, particularly fathers, who have failed their children; and cruelty to children and its lasting effect (as demonstrated by the implied sexual assault perpetrated on Claudia by Jimmy).\n\nAt the end of the film, frogs rain from the sky. Throughout the film, there are references to the Book of Exodus 8:2 \"And if thou refuse to let them go, behold, I will smite all thy borders with frogs.\"\n\nThe film has an underlying theme of unexplained events, taken from the 1920s and 1930s works of Charles Fort. Fortean author Loren Coleman's 2001 book \"Mysterious America: The Revised Edition\" includes a chapter entitled \"The Teleporting Animals and \"Magnolia\"\", addressing the film. The chapter discusses how one of Fort's books is visible on the table in the library and the film's end credit thanking Charles Fort.\n\nThe only character who seems to be unsurprised by the falling frogs is Stanley. He calmly observes the event, saying, \"This happens. This is something that happens.\" This has led to the speculation that Stanley is a prophet, allegorically akin to Moses, and that the \"slavery\" the film alludes to is the exploitation of children by adults. These \"father issues\" persist throughout the film, as seen in the abuse and neglect of Claudia, Frank, Donnie, Stanley, and Dixon.\n\nThe DVD release includes a lengthy behind-the-scenes documentary, \"That Moment\". It uses a fly-on-the-wall approach to cover nearly every aspect of production, from production management and scheduling to music direction to special effects. The behind-the-scenes documentary is an in-depth look into Anderson's motivation and directing style. Pre-production included a screening of the film \"Network\" (1976), as well as \"Ordinary People\" (1980). Several scenes showed Anderson at odds with the child actors and labor laws that restrict their work time. The character of Dixon has further scenes filmed but, from Anderson's reactions, appear not to be working. These scenes were cut completely and have never been shown on DVD.\n\n"}
{"id": "35297745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35297745", "title": "Manang language", "text": "Manang language\n\nManang, also called Manangba, Manange, Manang Ke, Nyishang, Nyishangte, and Nyishangba is a Sino-Tibetan language spoken in Nepal. Native speakers refer to the language as \"ŋyeshaŋ\", meaning 'our language'. It is one of half a dozen languages in the Tamangic branch of the Sino-Tibetan family. Manang and its most closely related languages are often written as TGTM in literature, referring to Tamang, Gurung, Thakali, and Manangba, due to the high degree of similarity in the linguistic characteristics of the languages. The language is unwritten and almost solely spoken within the Manang District, leading it to be classified as threatened, with the number of speakers continuing to decline. Suspected reasons for the decline include parents not passing down the language to their children, in order to allow for what they see as more advanced communication with other groups of people, and thus gain more opportunities. Due to the proximity of the district to Tibet, as well as various globally widespread languages being introduced into the area, use of the native language is declining in favor of new languages, which are perceived to aid in the advancement of the people and region.\n\nIn the Manang Languages Project, Hildebrandt, et al. list four varieties of Manang.\n\nThe classification system of the language often varies throughout the literature, and multiple terms are often used to describe the same language family. The Tamangic branch is referenced as Western Bodish by some scholars. Although the existence of the Sino-Tibetan family is agreed upon, it is here that the breakdown can vary. Whereas some refer to the next subfamily as simply Tamangic, others have a slightly longer classification system. In this, Sino-Tibetan (or Tibeto-Burman) is broken down into Northeastern India, Western, Southeastern, and Northeastern. The Western group further breaks down into Bodic and Himalayan, each of which has its own subgroups, with Western Bodish being one of the four Bodic subgroups.\n\nThere are 29 consonants in Manang, which are summarized in the table below. The contrastive status of the consonants in parentheses is questionable, as they are rare idiosyncratic in distribution.\nThere are six oral vowels and five nasalized vowels, which contrast with the oral vowels. Length is emergent and not phonemic.\nManangba, along with the related Tamangic languages, is semi-tonal and reliant on the pitch of the speaker. There are four distinct tones in the TGTM sub-family, each of which differs by the overall pitch, as well as how breathy the sound is. Using a rating of 1 to 5, which correlates to low to high pitch respectively, the beginning and ending sound of every monosyllabic Manang word can be rated in order to determine whether the speaker increases or decreases the pitch, as well as breathiness. Of the four tones, the first stays consistently mid-level throughout the entire word, whereas the second tonal type starts at a 4 and increases in pitch to a 5. The third and fourth types decrease from the start to finish of the word, although tone-3 is higher pitched overall. The four tone classification is used for every related language, although the exact pitch levels can vary between them. For example, tone-3 in Manang is high pitched and clear, as discussed above, while tone-3 of Gurung is low and breathy. Essentially, every one of these languages has four potential tones in their words, but the exact pitch and clarity of each varies between languages. Words can have the same basic pronunciation, with the only difference being the pitch, making it possible to misinterpret words that have drastically different meanings. It is believed that a two toned system may have created the original makeup of these languages, although the original tones used are still unclear.\n\nThe structure of syllables is represented as (C1)(C2)V(C3), with C1-3 corresponding to three consonants, and the V representing the vowel. Native speakers tend to agree that the most emphasis is placed on the first syllable of a word. Vowels present in the first syllable of words are held slightly longer than if located later in the word. However, from the minimal field research carried out, there is often not a distinguishable difference between syllable emphasis, and exceptions are also present. Terms that are exceptions often show stress on the last syllable, have vowels held longer on the second syllable, or both. Examples of exceptions include the Manang words for 'enemy', 'insect', 'forehead', 'button', 'graveyard', and 'leg'.\n\nNouns do not identify gender, or whether something is inanimate or alive. Rather, there are completely separate words to identify men from women, and girls from boys. The most common way of making nouns plural is by adding \"tse\" to the end. As with English, there are some exceptions, and the entire form of the word may change rather than having an ending attached. The structure of compound nouns varies. One interesting compound structural type is where the leftmost word gives additional meaning to the word on the right. For example, the word \"phémwi\" meaning 'coin', breaks down into \"phe\" meaning 'metal' and \"mwi\" meaning 'money'. The money is being described as metallic, making it known that the currency is in coin form rather than a paper bill.\n\nThe status of this language is currently rated as a 6b according to the Ethnologue rating system, classifying it as threatened. While the language is able to be spoken by older generations, and continuing to be passed onto newer ones, the rate at which it is being taught is sharply declining. The Nepalese Revolution of 1990 allowed for more freedom of languages, so identifying with a native ancestral language was of great importance to many. In reality however, fewer people actually spoke the languages they claimed to, leading to exaggerated speaker numbers being listed. Despite the relatively small number of speakers, allowing the language to die out entirely will be detrimental to the world as a whole. Even the least spoken languages hold stories, traditions, and potentially useful knowledge of the world, which will be lost if the language is gone. The endangered status of Manang means that researchers should attempt to collect as much detailed documentation and audio recordings now, before the language is potentially lost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3004768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3004768", "title": "Marte Meo", "text": "Marte Meo\n\nMarte Meo (Latin \"by own power\") is a method of educational counselling.\n\nIt was developed in the late 1970s and early 1980s by the Dutch educational counsellor \"Maria Aarts\". She recognised the difficulties in explaining scientific observations of a child's problems to parents and other educators, as they are often unable to relate to the pedagogic jargon and identify the relevance of these insights in everyday-life situations.\n\nShe developed a method where normal situations between child and educator were recorded by video and later watched by the parents or other educators to enable discussion together. By this, strengths and weaknesses of both children and educators in their interaction should be more easily recognised, which in turn aims at helping both to gain the optimism and power to solve educational issues themselves. Enhanced communication becomes the most important instrument in achieving this.\n\nAfter having practiced Marte Meo for many years, Maria Aarts founded the \"Marte Meo\" organisation in 1987, which aimed at teaching educational counsellors how to apply the Marte Meo method.\n\nMarte Meo has attracted significant attention not only in the Netherlands, but also in Scandinavia, France, Ireland and India where it is practiced. In these countries, it is often regarded as effective, cheap and pragmatic, which is opposite the viewpoint held by the therapeutic community in the United States, where the method is regarded as too time consuming considering that there are other alternatives in such situations\n\n"}
{"id": "3094810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3094810", "title": "Midlife Crisis", "text": "Midlife Crisis\n\n\"Midlife Crisis\" is a song by the American rock band Faith No More. It was released on May 26, 1992 as the first single from their fourth album, \"Angel Dust\". It became their sole number-one hit on the Modern Rock Tracks chart.\n\n\"Midlife Crisis\" is an alternative metal and funk metal song, which incorporates progressive rock and hip hop elements.\n\nMike Patton has denied that the song is about having a midlife crisis, as he did not know what one would feel like, but says that \"it's more about creating false emotion, being emotional, dwelling on your emotions and in a sense inventing them\" and that: \n\nDuring production the song was given the working title of \"Madonna\" which was later maintained as a setlist name during live performances. The drum track for the song contains a sample of the first bar of the song \"Cecilia\", as performed by Simon and Garfunkel, repeated throughout. The bridge features a sample of \"Car Thief\" by the Beastie Boys.\n\nThe video for this song was directed by Kevin Kerslake, who also directed their shoestring video for the song \"Everything's Ruined\". The version on the \"\" collection is uncensored and contains shots during the bridge which show a man being stretched by four horses (alluding to an old punishment for regicide, known as \"quartering\") – the censored version uses additional shots of choirboys running to a large cross instead. Singer Mike Patton can also be seen dancing around holding a spade.\n\nFor the video, the sound mix of this song is slightly different than the album version (on certain promotional releases it is referred to as 'The Scream Mix'). For the DVD re-release of \"\", the album version of the song is used instead, with the accommodating edits made.\n\n\"Midlife Crisis\" has featured on the soundtrack for the videogames \"Tony Hawk's Underground 2\" and \"\" on the fictional radio station . It is a master track song on \"Rock Band 3\", with the fade-out ending edited for gameplay reasons.\n\nThe song has been covered on industrial metal band Bile's 2002 album \"The Copy Machine\". It was covered by American rock band Disturbed twice: the first time for a Faith No More tribute album, which was instead released through the Internet; the second time as a B-side to their fourth studio album \"Indestructible\". This re-recorded version was released on \"Covered, A Revolution in Sound\" and re-mastered for a third release on their B-side collection album \"The Lost Children\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "221226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221226", "title": "Midsummer", "text": "Midsummer\n\nMidsummer is the period of time centered upon the summer solstice, and more specifically the northern European celebrations that accompany the actual solstice or take place on a day between June 19 and June 25 and the preceding evening. The exact dates vary between different cultures. The undivided Christian Church designated June 24 as the feast day of the early Christian martyr St John the Baptist, and the observance of St John's Day begins the evening before, known as St John's Eve.\n\nThese are commemorated by many Christian denominations, such as the Roman Catholic Church, Lutheran Churches, and Anglican Communion. In Sweden the Midsummer is such an important festivity that there have been serious discussions to make the Midsummer's Eve into the National Day of Sweden, instead of June 6. It may also be referred to as St. Hans Day.\n\nSaint John's Day, the feast day of Saint John the Baptist, was established by the undivided Christian Church in the 4th century AD, in honour of the birth of the Saint John the Baptist, which the Gospel of Luke records as being sixth months before Jesus. As the Western Christian Churches mark the birth of Jesus on December 25, Christmas, the Feast of Saint John (Saint John's Day) was established at midsummer, exactly sixth months before the former feast. \n\nWithin Christian theology, this carries significance as John the Baptist \"was understood to be preparing the way for Jesus\", with stating \"He must increase, but I must decrease\"; this is symbolized in the fact that the \"sun begins to diminish at the summer solstice and eventually increases at the winter solstice.\" By the 6th century AD, several churches were dedicated in the honour of Saint John the Baptist and a vigil, Saint John's Eve, was added to the feast day of Saint John the Baptist and Christian priests held three Masses in churches for the celebration.\n\nIn Florence, medieval midsummer celebrations were \"an occasion for dramatic representations of the Baptist's life and death\" and \"the feast day was marked by processions, banquets, and plays, culminating in a fireworks show that the entire city attended.\" The historian Ronald Hutton states that the \"lighting of festive fires upon St. John's Eve is first recorded as a popular custom by Jean Belethus, a theologian at the University of Paris, in the early twelfth century\". In England, the earliest reference to this custom occurs on in the 13th century AD, in the \"Liber Memorandum\" of the parish church at Barnwell in the Nene Valley, which stated that parish youth would gather on the day to sing songs and play games. A Christian monk of Lilleshall Abbey, in the same century, wrote:\n\nThe 13th-century monk of Winchcomb, Gloucestershire, who compiled a book of sermons for Christian feast days, recorded how St. John's Eve was celebrated in his time:\nLet us speak of the revels which are accustomed to be made on St. John's Eve, of which there are three kinds. On St. John's Eve in certain regions the boys collect bones and certain other rubbish, and burn them, and therefrom a smoke is produced on the air. They also make brands and go about the fields with the brands. Thirdly, the wheel which they roll.\nSaint John's Fires, explained the monk of Winchcombe, were to drive away dragons, which were abroad on St. John's Eve, poisoning springs and wells. The wheel that was rolled downhill he gave its explanation: \"The wheel is rolled to signify that the sun then rises to the highest point of its circle and at once turns back; thence it comes that the wheel is rolled.\"\n\nOn St John's Day 1333 Petrarch watched women at Cologne rinsing their hands and arms in the Rhine \"so that the threatening calamities of the coming year might be washed away by bathing in the river.\" 15th-century diarist Goro Dati, described the celebration of Saint John's Day at Midsummer in Italy as being one in which guilds prepared their workshops with fine displays, and one in which solemn church processions took place, with men dressed in the costumes of Christian saints and angels.\n\nIn the 16th century AD, the historian John Stow, described the celebration of Midsummer:\nThese fires are commonly called Saint John's Fires in various languages. Historian Ronald Hutton states that the \"lighting of festive fires upon St. John's Eve is first recorded as a popular custom by Jean Belethus, a theologian at the University of Paris, in the early twelfth century\". In England, the earliest reference to this custom occurs on in the 13th century A.D., in the \"Liber Memorandum\" of the parish church at Barnwell in the Nene Valley, which stated that parish youth would gather on the day to sing songs and play games. and served to repel witches and evil spirits. Saint John's Day is also a popular day for infant baptisms and in the 19th century, \"baptisms of children who had died 'pagans' were acted out\". In Sweden, young people visited holy springs as \"a reminder of how John the Baptist baptised Christ in the River Jordan.\" In addition, historically, \"it was a custom to carry lighted torches on Midsummer-eve, as an emblem of St. John the Baptist, who was 'a burning and shining light,' and the preparer of the way of Christ.\"\n\nMidsummer/Saint John's Day-related traditions, church services, and celebrations are particularly important in northern Europe – Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania – but is also very strongly observed in Poland, Russia, Belarus, Germany, Netherlands, Flanders, Ireland, parts of the United Kingdom (Cornwall especially), France, Italy, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Ukraine, other parts of Europe, and elsewhere – such as Canada, the United States, Puerto Rico, and also in the Southern Hemisphere (mostly in Brazil, Argentina and Australia). In Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Quebec (Canada), the traditional Midsummer day, June 24, is a public holiday. So it was formerly also in Sweden and Finland, but in these countries it was, in the 1950s, moved to the Friday and Saturday between June 19 and June 26, respectively.\n\nIn Austria the midsummer solstice is celebrated each year with a spectacular procession of ships down the Danube River as it flows through the wine-growing Wachau Valley just north of Vienna. Up to 30 ships sail down the river in line as fireworks erupt from the banks and hill tops while bonfires blaze and the vineyards are lit up. Lighted castle ruins also erupt with fireworks during the 90-minute cruise downstream.\n\nPortuguese St. John's Day, brought to Brazil during colonial times, has become a popular event that is celebrated during a period that starts one week before St. Anthony's Day (June 12) and ends after St. Peter's Day (June 29). This nationwide festival, called \"Festa Junina\" (June Festival), or \"São João\", takes place during midwinter in most of the country.\n\nRural life is celebrated through typical clothing, food, and dance (particularly square dancing, or \"quadrilha\"). The \"quadrilha\" features couple formations around a mock wedding whose bride and groom are the central attraction of the dancing. A kind of maypole (called \"pau-de-sebo\") is also raised and used in some festivities. It's prepared a typical hot drink called \"quentão\" (very hot) that consists in a mix of fruits and spices with a lacing of Cachaça. On St. John's Day eve celebration, it's sometimes placed a ritual of walking on live-coal made of the remnants of the main bonfire, which is a traditional part of the party, on barefoot by midnight. It's believed that if the one who walks is strong in faith, he shall not be hurt.\n\nTwo northeastern towns in particular have competed with each other for the title of \"Biggest Saint John Festival in the World\", namely Caruaru (in the state of Pernambuco), and Campina Grande, in Paraíba. The festivities also coincide with the corn harvest, dishes served during this period are commonly made with corn, such as canjica and pamonha; dishes also include boiled or baked vegetable corn (often buttered), sausages, sweet potatoes, peanuts, and numerous sweet dishes such as rice pudding. The celebrations are very colorful and festive and include the use of fireworks and bonfires.\n\nOn Midsummer day Bulgarians celebrate the so-called Enyovden. On the same day the Eastern Orthodox church celebrates the day of John the Baptist and the rites and traditions of both holidays are often mixed. A fire-related ritual may also be performed in Bulgaria on that day; it involves barefoot dance on smoldering embers and is called Nestinarstvo. Bulgarian folklore states the beginning of summer starts on Enyovden. It is thought that in the morning of Enyovden, when the sun rises, it \"winks’ and \"plays\". Anyone seeing the sunrise will be healthy throughout the year. It is believed that on Enyovden a variety of herbs have the greatest healing power, and that this is especially true at sunrise. Therefore, they have to be picked early in the morning before dawn. Women – sorceresses and enchantresses – go to gather herbs by themselves to cure and make charms. The herbs gathered for the winter must be 77 and a half – for all diseases and for the nameless disease.\n\nIn Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John's Day is observed on the Monday nearest June 24 and commemorates John Cabot's discovery of Newfoundland in 1497. In Quebec, the celebration of June 24 was brought to New France by the first French colonists. Great fires were lit at night. According to the \"Jesuit Relations\", the first celebrations of St John's Day in New France took place around 1638. In 1834, Ludger Duvernay, printer and editor of \"La Minerve\" took the leadership of an effort to make June 24 the national holiday of the \"Canadiens\" (French Canadians). In 1908, Pope Pius X designated John the Baptist as the patron saint of the French-Canadians. In 1925, June 24 became a legal holiday in Quebec and in 1977, it became the secular National Holiday of Quebec. It still is the tradition to light great fires on the night of the 24th of June.\n\nIn Denmark, the solstitial celebration is called \"sankthans\" or \"sankthansaften\" (\"St. John's Eve\"). It was an official holiday until 1770, and in accordance with the Danish tradition of celebrating a holiday on the evening before the actual day, it takes place on the evening of 23 June. It is the day where the medieval wise men and women (the doctors of that time) would gather special herbs that they needed for the rest of the year to cure people.\n\nBonfires on the beach, speeches, picnics and songs are traditional, although they are built in many other places where beaches may not be close by (i.e. on the shores of lakes and other waterways, parks, etc.) Bonfires are lit in order to repel witches and other evil spirits, with the burnings sending the \"witch\" away to Bloksbjerg, the Brocken mountain in the Harz region of Germany where the great witch gathering was thought to be held on this day. Some Danes regard this tradition of burning witches as inappropriate.\n\nIn Scandinavia, young people visited holy springs as \"a reminder of how John the Baptist baptised Christ in the River Jordan.\"\n\nOn Saint John's Eve and Saint John's Day, churches arrange Saint John's worship services and family reunions also occur, which are an occasion for drinking and eating.\n\nIn 1885, Holger Drachmann wrote a \"midsommervise\" (Midsummer hymn) called \"Vi elsker vort land...\" (\"We Love Our Country\") with a melody composed by P.E. Lange-Müller that is sung at every bonfire on this evening.\n\n\"Jaanipäev\" (\"Jaan's Day\" in English) was celebrated long before the arrival of Christianity in Estonia, although the day was given its name by the crusaders. The day is still known by its many names as: leedopäev, suvine pööripäiv, suvepööripäev, püäripääv, päevakäänak, päiväkäänäk, päiväkäändjäne, päevapesa, pesapäev and suured päevad. The arrival of Christianity, however, did not end pagan beliefs and fertility rituals surrounding this holiday. In 1578, Balthasar Russow wrote in his Livonian Chronicle about Estonians who placed more importance on the festival than going to church. He complained about those who went to church, but did not enter, and instead spent their time lighting bonfires, drinking, dancing, singing and following pagan rituals. Midsummer marks a change in the farming year, specifically the break between the completion of spring sowing and the hard work of summer hay-making.\n\nUnderstandably, some of the rituals of Jaanipäev have very strong folkloric roots. The best-known Jaanik, or midsummer, ritual is the lighting of the bonfire and jumping over it. This is seen as a way of guaranteeing prosperity and avoiding bad luck. Likewise, to not light the fire is to invite the destruction of your house by fire. The fire also frightened away mischievous spirits who avoided it at all costs, thus ensuring a good harvest. So, the bigger the fire, the further the mischievous spirits stayed away.\n\nEstonians celebrate \"Jaaniõhtu\" on the eve of the Summer Solstice (June 23) with bonfires. On the islands of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, old fishing boats may be burned in the large pyres set ablaze. On Jaaniõhtu, Estonians all around the country will gather with their families, or at larger events to celebrate this important day with singing and dancing, as Estonians have done for centuries. The celebrations that accompany Jaaniõhtu carry on usually through the night, they are the largest and most important of the year, and the traditions are almost identical to Finland (read under Finland) and similar to neighbors Latvia and Sweden (read under Sweden).\n\nJaanipäev is usually spent in a summer cottage, where people light bonfires, or at a festival, such as Pühajärve Jaanituli in Otepää.\n\nSince 1934, June 23 is also national Victory Day of Estonia and both 23rd and 24th are holidays and flag days. The Estonian flag is not lowered in the night between these two days.\n\nOn the Faroe Islands, St. John's Eve (\"jóansøka\") is generally not celebrated. However, on the southernmost island of Suðuroy it is observed by lighting a bonfire. Only one bonfire is lit on the island as one of the two biggest towns hosts the celebration alternately every other year.\n\nThe summer solstice was called \"Ukon juhla\" (\"Ukko's celebration\") after the Finnish god Ukko. After the celebrations were Christianized, the holiday became known as \"juhannus\" after John the Baptist (Finnish: \"Johannes Kastaja\").\n\nSince 1955, the holiday has always been on a Saturday (between June 20 and June 26). Earlier it was always on June 24. Many of the celebrations of midsummer take place on Friday, midsummer eve, when many workplaces are closed and shops may close their doors at noon.\n\nIn the Finnish midsummer celebration, bonfires (Finnish \"kokko\") are very common and are burned at lakesides and by the sea. Often branches from birch trees (\"koivu\") are placed on both side of the front door to welcome visitors. Swedish-speaking Finns often celebrate by erecting a midsummer or maypole (Swedish \"midsommarstång\", \"majstång\"). Some Finland Swedes call the holiday \"Johannes\" after the Finnish term \"juhannus\" – or more accurately after the Biblical John the Baptist (=\"Johannes Döparen\" in Swedish).\n\nIn folk magic, midsummer was a very potent night and the time for many small rituals, mostly for young maidens seeking suitors and fertility. Will-o'-the-wisps were believed to appear at midsummer night, particularly to finders of the mythical \"fern in bloom\" and possessors of the \"fern seed\", marking a treasure. In the old days, maidens would use special charms and bend over a well, naked, in order to see their future husband's reflection. In another tradition that continues still today, an unmarried woman collects seven different flowers and places them under her pillow to dream of her future husband.\n\nAn important feature of the midsummer in Finland is the white night and the midnight sun. Because of Finland's location around the Arctic Circle the nights near the midsummer day are short or non-existent. This gives a great contrast to the darkness of the winter time. The temperature can vary between 0 °C and +30 °C, with an average of about 20 °C in the South.\n\nMany Finns leave the cities for Midsummer and spend time in the countryside. Nowadays many spend at least a few days there, and some Finns take their whole vacation at a summer cottage. Traditions include bonfires, cookouts, sauna and spending time together with friends or family. Heavy drinking is also associated with the Finnish midsummer.\n\nMany music festivals of all sizes are organized on the Midsummer weekend. It is also common to start summer vacation on Midsummer day. For many families Midsummer is the time when they move to the countryside to their summer cottage by the sea or lake. Midsummer is also a Finnish Flag Day where the flag is hoisted at 6 pm on Midsummer's Eve and flown throughout the night until 9 pm the next evening; this is an exception to the normal flag day rule of flying the flag from 8 am to sundown. Finnish Canadians in the New Finland district, Saskatchewan, Canada celebrate Juhannus.\n\nIn France, the (feast of St John), traditionally celebrated with bonfires () that are reminiscent of Midsummer's pagan rituals, is a Catholic festivity in celebration of Saint John the Baptist. It takes place on June 24, on Midsummer day (St John's day). In certain French towns, a tall bonfire is built by the inhabitants in order to be lit on St John's Day. In the region and in the Southern part of , this huge bonfire is named .\n\nThe day of sun solstice is called in German. On June 20, 1653 the Nuremberg town council issued the following order: \"Where experience herefore have shown, that after the old heathen use, on John's day in every year, in the country, as well in towns as villages, money and wood have been gathered by young folk, and there upon the so-called or \"zimmet fire\" kindled, and thereat winebibbing, dancing about the said fire, leaping over the same, with burning of sundry herbs and flowers, and setting of brands from the said fire in the fields, and in many other ways all manner of superstitious work carried on — Therefore the Hon. Council of Nürnberg town neither can nor ought to forbear to do away with all such unbecoming superstition, paganism, and peril of fire on this coming day of St. John.\"\n\nBonfires are still a custom in many areas of Germany. People gather to watch the bonfire and celebrate solstice.\n\nAccording to Eastern Orthodox tradition the eve of the day of the Nativity of John the Baptist is celebrated with festivals in many towns and villages, both in the mainland and in the Greek isles. Traditionally the midsummers celebration is called () meaning sign or oracle, and was considered a time when unmarried girls would discover their potential mates through a ritual. It is also customary to this day to burn the Mayday wreaths that are used to decorate the doors of the houses for the previous two months, in large communal bonfires, accompanied by music, dancing and jumping over the flames. It takes place on May 30 and May 31.\n\nOn June 21 Hungarians celebrate \"Saint Ivan's Night\" () ( being derived from the Slavic form of Johannes/John, \"Ivan\", which may correspond to Hungarian , , ). The whole month of June was once called the Month of St. Ivan until the 19th century. Setting fires is a folklore tradition this night. Girls jumped over it, while boys watched the spectacle.\n\nMost significant among the customs of the summer is lighting the fire of Midsummer Night () on the day of St. John (June 24), when the sun follows the highest course, when the nights are the shortest and the days the longest. The practice of venerating Saint John the Baptist developed in the Catholic Church during the 5th century, and at this time they put his name and day on June 24. The summer solstice was celebrated among most peoples, so the Hungarians may have known it even before the Hungarian conquest of the Carpathian Basin. Although the Arab historian Ibn Rusta speaks of the Hungarians' fire worshipping, so far there is no data that could connect it to this day. In the Middle Ages it was primarily an ecclesiastical festivity, but from the 16th century on the sources recall it as a folk custom. The most important episode of the custom is the lighting of the fire.\n\nThe custom survived longest and in the most complete form in the northwestern part of the linguistic region, where as late as the 1930s they still lit a Midsummer Night fire. The way of arranging the participants by age and by sex has suggested the possibility that these groups sang by answering each other, but there are hardly any remnants that appear to support this possibility. People jumped over the fire after they lit it. This practice is mentioned as early as the 16th century, although at that time in connection with a wedding; still, it is called \"Midsummer Night fire\". The purpose of jumping over the fire is partly to purify, partly because they believed that those whose jump was very successful would get married during the following carnival.\n\nTiregān () is one of ancient Iranian festival coinciding with the mid summer festivals, another midsummer festival is Gilaki Bal Nowrooz which is held in the north of Iran.\n\nBal Nowrooz, meaning ‘the fire of Nowrooz’, is the name of a festival celebrated on the first day of ‘Our Nowrooz’ and this is the first day of Daylaman New Year.\n\nLighting the fire, thanking God for his blessings and crops, and praying for the peace of the souls of the dead were parts of this ancient Iranian tradition. This ceremony coincides with harvesting in Gilan.\n\nOn the first day of ‘Our Nowrooz’, the newly wed couples who have married in the past year, are given white horses to ride up to the foot of the mountain. As the brides and grooms reach the mountain foot, a yellow cow is set free, as a sign of happiness and abundance for the new couples.\nMany towns and cities have 'Midsummer Carnivals' with fairs, concerts and fireworks either on or on the weekend nearest to Midsummer. In rural spots particularly the northwest, bonfires are lit on hilltops. This tradition harks back to pagan times and is now associated with \"St. John's Night\". The Irish Environmental Protection Agency, after much initial upset in the west of Ireland, has an exemption for the burning of fires outdoors during midsummer night.\nTraditionally the longest day of the year in Ireland falls on June 21.\n\nIn Italy there is the San Giovanni's day (Saint John).\n\nThe feast of Saint John the Baptist has been celebrated in Florence from medieval times, and certainly in the Renaissance, with festivals sometimes lasting three days from 21 to 24 June. Such celebrations are held nowadays in Cesena from June 21 to 24, also with a special street market.\nSaint John the Baptist is the patron saint of Genoa, Florence and Turin where a fireworks display take place during the celebration on the river. In Turin Saint John's cult was also diffused since medieval times when the city stops to work for two days and people from the surroundings come to dance around the bonfire in the central square. Nowadays Saint John is the patron saint of Genoa, Florence and Turin and he was celebrated on June 24 which is a city public holiday.\n\nItalian neopagans usually celebrates the Mid Summer with rites, dances and festivals all around the country.\n\nIn Jersey most of the former midsummer customs are largely ignored nowadays. The custom known as \"Les cônes d'la Saint Jean\" was observed as late as the 1970s – horns or conch shells were blown. Ringing the \"bachîn\" (a large brass preserving pan) at midsummer to frighten away evil spirits survived as a custom on some farms until the 1940s and has been revived as a folk performance in the 21st century.\n\nIn Latvia, Midsummer is called \"Jāņi\" (plural of Latvian name Jānis, which is equivalent to John) or Līgo svētki (svētki = festival). It is a national holiday celebrated from the night of June 23 through June 24 on a large scale by almost everyone in Latvia and by people of Latvian origin abroad. Celebrations consist of a lot of traditional and mostly pagan elements – eating, Jāņi cheese, drinking beer, baking pīrāgi, singing Latvian folk songs dedicated to Jāņi, burning bonfires to keep light all through the night and jumping over it, wearing wreaths of flowers (for women) and oak leaves (for men) together with modern commercial products and ideas. There are tens and hundreds of different beliefs and traditions all over Latvia on what should be done on that day for good harvest, for predicting the future, for attracting your future spouse etc. People decorate their houses and lands with birch or sometimes oak branches and flowers as well as leaves, especially fern. In rural areas livestock is also decorated. In modern days small oak branches with leaves are attached to the cars in Latvia during the festivity. Jāņi has been a strong aspect of Latvian culture throughout history, originating in pre-Christian Latvia as an ancient fertility cult.\n\nIn the western town of Kuldīga, revellers mark the holiday by running naked through the town at three in the morning. The event has taken place since 2000. Runners are rewarded with beer, and police are on hand in case any \"puritans\" attempt to interfere with the naked run.\n\nMidsummer is commonly called John's Day (\"Joninės\") in Lithuania, and is also known as Saint Jonas' Festival, Rasos (Dew Holiday), Kupolė, Midsummer Day and St. John's Day. It is celebrated in the night from 23 June to 24 June and on 24 June. The traditions include singing songs and dancing until the sun sets, telling tales, searching to find the magic fern blossom at midnight, jumping over bonfires, greeting the rising midsummer sun and washing the face with a morning dew, young girls float flower wreaths on the water of river or lake. These are customs brought from pagan culture and beliefs. The latter Christian tradition is based on the reverence of Saint John. Lithuanians with the names Jonas, Jonė, Janina receive many greetings from their family, relatives and friends.\n\nAs in Denmark, \"Sankthansaften\" is celebrated on June 23 in Norway. The day is also called \"Jonsok\", which means \"John's wake\", important in Roman Catholic times with pilgrimages to churches and holy springs. For instance, up until 1840, there was a pilgrimage to the Røldal Stave Church in Røldal (southwest Norway) whose crucifix was said to have healing powers. Today, however, \"Sankthansaften\" is largely regarded as a secular or even pre-Christian event.\n\nIn most places, the main event is the burning of a large bonfire. In Western Norway, a custom of arranging mock weddings, both between adults and between children, is still kept alive. The wedding was meant to symbolize the blossoming of new life. Such weddings are known to have taken place in the 1800s, but the custom is believed to be older.\n\nIt is also said that, if a girl puts flowers under her pillow that night, she will dream of her future husband.\n\nEspecially in northern Poland – the Eastern Pomeranian and Kashubian regions – midsummer is celebrated on June 23. People dress in traditional Polka dress, and girls throw wreaths made of flowers into the Baltic Sea, and into lakes or rivers. The midsummer day celebration starts at about 8:00 p.m. and lasts all night until sunrise. People celebrate this special day every year and call it \"Noc Świętojańska\" which means St. John's Night. On that day in big Polish cities (like Warsaw and Kraków) there are many organized events, the most popular event being in Kraków, called the \"Wianki,\" which means wreaths. In many parts of Poland the Summer solstice is celebrated as \"Kupala Night\".\n\nIn Portugal, Midsummer festivities are included in what is known today as \"Santos Populares\" (Popular Saints celebrations), now corresponding to different municipal holidays: St. Anthony's Day in Lisbon and Vila Real (June 13), Festa de São João do Porto (St. John's Day) in Porto, Braga, Figueira da Foz, Vila do Conde, and Almada (June 24), St. Peter's day in Seixal, Sintra, Póvoa de Varzim, and Barcelos (June 29).\n\nSaints’ days are full of fun and merriment. The streets are decorated with balloons and arches made out of brightly colored paper; people dance in the city's small squares, and altars, dedicated to the saints, are put up as a way of asking for good fortune. These holidays are days of festivities with good food and refreshments, people eat Caldo verde (cabbage and potato soup), Sardinha Assada (grilled sardines), bread and drink red wine and água-pé (grape juice with a small percentage of alcohol).\n\nIn Lisbon, in Avenida da Liberdade, there are the \"Marchas\", a parade of folklore and costumes of the inhabitants from the city's different traditional quarters, with hundreds of singers and dancers and a vast audience applauding their favorite participants. As St. Anthony is the matchmaker saint, it is still the tradition in Lisbon to celebrate multiple marriages (200 to 300) and still following the tradition, if you are attracted to someone, one can declare themself in the heat of the festivities by offering to the loved person a \"manjerico\" (a flower-pot with a sweet basil plant) and a love poem.\n\nIn Porto and Braga St. John's is a festival that is lived to the full in the streets, where anything is permitted. People carry a plant of flowering leek (\"alho-porro,\" which has a pungent smell) with them, and run it over the face of other people. Starting in 1963, people have also carried a small plastic hammer which they use to bang their neighbors over the head. The tradition is that St. John was a scalliwag in his youth and the people hit him on the head with the garlic saying \"return to the right path\". There is also dancing, while the highlight of the night is the firework display over the River Douro (in Porto) and down Avenida da Liberdade (in Braga). Across the country the traditional midsummer bonfire is also built, and following an ancient pagan tradition, revelers try to jump over the bonfire, this in order to gain protection during the rest of the year.\n\nIn Póvoa de Varzim, a traditional fisher town, midsummer was celebrated during St. John's day, but most festivities were changed to Saint Peter's Day in the 1960s, as the day was declared a municipal holiday. Póvoa de Varzim's Saint Peter Festival keeps traditional midsummer elements, such as the bonfire, the celebrations occur in the streets and include the \"rusgas\", in which inhabitants of one quarter (\"bairro\") visit in a parade other neighborhoods in the evening of June 28. Women are dressed as tricana (women dressed in a traditional costume with a sensual walking style). Each neighborhood has its own festival and colors for identification. In the 21st century, younger population although participating strongly in this festival, now use contemporary ways to celebrate it, such as the very popular \"Saint Peter raves\" in the waterfront.\n\nIn Romania, the Midsummer celebrations are named \"Drăgaica\" or \"Sânziene\". Drăgaica is celebrated by a dance performed by a group of 5–7 young girls of which one is chosen as \"the Drăgaica\". She is dressed as a bride, with wheat wreath, while the other girls, dressed in white wear a veil with bedstraw flowers. Midsummer fairs are held in many Romanian villages and cities. The oldest and best known midsummer fair in Romania is the Drăgaica fair, held in Buzău between 10 and 24 June every year. There are many superstitions related to this day, particularly those involving marriage or death. The term Sânziene originates in the Latin \"Sancta Diana\", and superstitions relating to this day are mainly erotic in nature, referring to young girls and their marriage prospects.\n\nIvan Kupala was the old Kyiv Rus' name for John the Baptist. Up to the present day, the Rus' Midsummer Night (or Ivan's Day) is known as one of the most expressive Kyiv Rus' folk and pagan holidays. Ivan Kupala Day is the day of summer solstice celebrated in Ukraine on June 23 NS and July 6 OS. Before the day was named for St John, this was a celebration of a pagan fertility rite involving bathing in water. Since St John the Baptist's birth is celebrated at this time, some elements of Kupala's pagan origins were seen to be roughly synonymous with Christian meanings, most notably the parallel of Baptism as cleansing from sins, so the holiday in a Christian-modified form has been accepted into the Orthodox Christian calendar. In modern times, due to increasing secularization, it is possible to find Kupala being celebrated in a manner closer to its pagan roots.\n\nMany rites of this holiday are connected with water, fertility and autopurification. The girls, for example, would float their flower garlands on the water of rivers and tell their fortunes from their movement. Lads and girls would jump over the flames of bonfires. Nude bathing is likewise practiced. Nights on the Eve of Ivan Kupala inspired Modest Mussorgsky to create his \"Night on Bald Mountain\". A prominent Ivan Kupala night scene is featured in Andrei Tarkovsky's film \"Andrei Rublev\". Also, in Saint Petersburg the White Nights Festival is also predominantly connected with water.\n\nThe Yakut people of the Sakha Republic celebrate a solstitial ceremony, \"Ysyakh\", involving tethering a horse to a pole and circle dancing around it. Betting on Reindeer or horse racing would often take place afterward. The traditions are derived from Tengriism, the ancient sun religion of the region which has since been driven out by the Russian empire, Russian Orthodox Church and finally the Communist Party. The traditions have since been encouraged.\n\nIn Slovenia, \"Kresna noč\" (Midsummer Night) used to be celebrated on June 21, but the celebration was later moved to May 1, International Workers Day. Kresna noč used to be connected with the Slavic god Kresnik, who was later replaced by St. John the Baptist.\n\nThe tradition of Sveti Ivan Krstitelj (St.John Baptist), also called Ivanjdan or Svitnjak in Western Herzegovina and coastal Croatia, is celebrated on June 23 in Croatia. The people light large bonfires in the name of Saint John Baptist, and the celebration can also be connected to the old Slavic traditions for Kresnik (South Slavic version of Perun) the god of Sun. There are places in Croatia like Ričice where saint St. John Baptist is the patron and their tradition is different. The village folk and especially children bring firewood to a designated place, and then a bonfire is lit at sunset, after the bonfire burns out the children jump, walk or run on the embers of the bonfire because it is believed their feet won't hurt if they do that. There is also the tradition of which village makes the bigger bonfire, a competition that the village folk will talk and boast about tomorrow after the church Eucharist ceremony. The tradition everywhere else in Croatia is pretty similar,but mostly the bonfires are lit but the walking on embers is not done anymore.\n\n\"Ivanjdan\" is celebrated on July 7, according to the Serbian Orthodox Church. Saint John (Sveti Jovan) is known by the name \"Igritelj\" (dancer) because it is thought the sun is dancing on this day. Among traditions are that girls watch the sunrise through their wreath, to become red as the sun, towards the evening in the heights, \"Ivanjske vatre\" (kresovi, \"bonfire\") are lit, and dancing and singing takes place. It is a tradition for people to become Godfathers and blood brothers on this day, as John is a symbol of character and rectitude.\n\nThe traditional midsummer party in Spain is the celebration in honour of Saint John the Baptist (Spanish: \"San Juan\", Catalan: \"Sant Joan\", Galician: \"San Xoán\", Asturian: \"San Xuan\") and takes place in the evening of June 23 St John's Eve. It is common in many areas of the country. In some areas, bonfires are traditionally named \"tequeos\", which means people of the dance. Parties are organized usually at beaches, where bonfires are lit and a set of firework displays usually take place. On the Mediterranean coast, especially in Catalonia and Valencia, special foods such as \"coca de Sant Joan\" are also served on this occasion. In Alicante, since 1928, the bonfires of Saint John were developed into elaborate constructions inspired by the Falles, or Fallas, of Valencia.\n\nMidsummer tradition is also especially strong in northern areas of the country, such as Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria where one can easily identify the rituals that reveal the pagan beliefs widespread throughout Europe in Neolithic times. These beliefs pivot on three basic ideas: the importance of medicinal plants, especially in relation to health, youth and beauty; the protective character of fire to ward men off evil spirits and witches and, finally, the purifying, miraculous effects of water. What follows is a summary of Galician traditions surrounding St. John's festival in relation to these three elements.\n\nRaising and dancing around a maypole (\"majstång\" or \"midsommarstång\") is an activity that attracts families and many others. Greenery placed over houses and barns were supposed to bring good fortune and health to people and livestock; this old tradition of decorating with greens continues, even though most don't take it seriously. To decorate with greens was called \"att maja\" (to may) and may be the origin of the word \"majstång\", \"maja\" coming originally from the month May, or vice versa. Other researchers say the term came from German merchants who raised the maypole in June because the Swedish climate made it impossible to find the necessary greens and flowers in May, and continued to call it a maypole. Today, however, it is most commonly called a \"midsommarstång\" (literally \"midsummer pole\").\n\nIn earlier times, small spires wrapped in greens were erected; this probably predates the maypole tradition, which is believed by many to have come from the continent in the Middle Ages. Midsummer is also sprung from pagan rites, it has a lot to do with Freyja and Freyr which has a phallic symbol, and during the Viking age there were rituals centered around this, as a worshipping of fertility and a rich harvest, which is the older meaning of the celebration and the German merchant influence has very little to do with it overall.\n\nIn Sweden Midsummer's day is a Saturday between June 20 and June 26, but as is usual in Sweden the actual celebration is on the eve, i.e. a Friday between June 19 and June 25. Midsummer's Eve is a de facto public holiday in Sweden with offices and many shops closed.\n\nLike in Norway and Finland, it is believed that if a girl picks 7 different flowers in silence of the midsummer night and puts them underneath her pillow, she will dream of her future husband.\n\nTraditional Swedish midsummer was observed on June 24.\n\nIn Great Britain from the 13th century, Midsummer was celebrated on Midsummer Eve (St. John's Eve, June 23) and St. Peter's Eve (June 28) with the lighting of bonfires, feasting and merrymaking.\n\nIn late 14th-century England, John Mirk of Lilleshall Abbey, Shropshire, gives the following description: \"At first, men and women came to church with candles and other lights and prayed all night long. In the process of time, however, men left such devotion and used songs and dances and fell into lechery and gluttony turning the good, holy devotion into sin.\" The church fathers decided to put a stop to these practices and ordained that people should fast on the evening before, and thus turned waking into fasting.\n\nMirk adds that at the time of his writing, \"...in worship of St John the Baptist, men stay up at night and make three kinds of fires: one is of clean bones and no wood and is called a \"bonnefyre\"; another is of clean wood and no bones, and is called a \"wakefyre\", because men stay awake by it all night; and the third is made of both bones and wood and is called, \"St. John's fire\" (Festial 182).\" These traditions largely ended after the Reformation, but persisted in rural areas up until the 19th century before petering out.\n\nOther Midsummer festivities had uneasy relations with the Reformed establishment. The Chester Midsummer Watch Parade, begun in 1498, was held at every Summer Solstice in years when the Chester Mystery Plays were not performed. Despite the cancellation of the plays in 1575, the parade continued; in 1599, however, the Lord Mayor ordered that the parades be banned and the costumes destroyed. The parade was permanently banned in 1675.\nTraditional Midsummer bonfires are still lit on some high hills in Cornwall (see Carn Brea and Castle an Dinas on Castle Downs). This tradition was revived by the Old Cornwall Society in the early 20th century. Bonfires in Cornwall were once common as part of , which is now celebrated at Penzance, Cornwall. This week long festival normally starts on the Friday nearest St John's Day. lasts several days and culminates in Mazey Day. This is a revival of the Feast of St John () with fireworks and bonfires.\n\nJune 24, Midsummer Day, the feast of St. John the Baptist, is one of the quarter days in England.\n\nMidsummer festivals are celebrated throughout Scotland, notably in the Scottish Borders where Peebles holds its Beltane Week. The Eve of St. John has special magical significance and was used by Sir Walter Scott as the title, and theme, for a pseudo-ballad poem. He invented a legend in which the lady of Smailholm Tower, near Kelso, keeps vigil by the midnight fires three nights in a row (see above) and is visited by her lover; but when her husband returns from battle, she learns he slew that lover on the first night, and she has been entertained by a very physical ghost.\n\nIn Wales it is called , or (St John's of Midsummer) to distinguish it from (St John's of Midwinter, the feast of John the Evangelist). Great agricultural fairs used to be held at this time, along with merriment and dancing. A bonfire was also kept this night. With the advent of non-conformist beliefs on the Welsh socio-political culture, this (among so many other similar festivals) suffered greatly, and its observance finally died out in south-east Wales by the end of the 19th century. However, since 1977, a folk-dance revival started in Cardiff, and is held now annually on this feast day\n\nMidsummer celebrations held throughout the United States are largely derived from the cultures of immigrants who arrived from various European nations since the 19th century. With the rise of earth-centered spirituality, many, including Unitarian Universalists, celebrate the summer solstice as a religious holiday.\n\nAs the state of Alaska, northernmost state in the nation, straddles the Arctic Circle, midsummer is a time when most of the state is in daylight or civil twilight the entire day. The Midnight Sun Game is an annual tradition in the city of Fairbanks, in which a regulation game of baseball is played at 10:30 p.m. local time, through the midnight hour, with no artificial lighting.\n\nTucson has announced its inaugural Earthwalk Solstice celebration, with sister events in San Francisco, Jerusalem, and other communities around the world. The event features a walk through a giant labyrinth, musicians, healers, ceremony, etc.\n\nSince 1974, Santa Barbara has hosted an annual Summer Solstice celebration, typically on the weekend of or the weekend after the actual solstice. It includes a festival and parade.\n\nGeneva hosts a Swedish Day () festival on the third Sunday of June. The event, featuring maypole-raising, dancing, and presentation of an authentic Viking ship, dates back to 1911.\n\nIn Kaleva, is celebrated annually on or near the Summer Solstice by Gathering at the Village Roadside Park. Traditionally (Finnish Oven Baked Pancake) and strawberry shortcake is enjoyed followed by a bonfire or . was founded in 1900 by Finnish immigrants.\n\nThe Astoria Scandinavian Midsummer Festival has been a tradition on the North Coast of Oregon for over forty years. The Festival takes place typically on the 3rd full weekend of June. The festival embodies the rich cultural heritage that was transplanted to the Astoria, Oregon region by emigrating Scandinavians. In the Pacific Northwest they found the same bounteous seas and forests as in their native lands and the demand for their skills at managing them.\n\nThe NYC Swedish Midsummer celebrations in Battery Park, New York City, attracts some 3,000–5,000 people annually, which makes it one of the largest celebrations after the ones held in Leksand and at the Skansen Park in Stockholm. Sweden Day, a Midsummer celebration which also honors Swedish heritage and history, has been held annually on the sound in Throgs Neck in New York City since 1941. Swedish Midsummer is also celebrated in other places with large Swedish and Scandinavian populations, such as Rockford, Illinois, Chicago, Minneapolis, Minnesota, and Lindsborg, Kansas. The Swedish \"language village\" (summer camp) , run by Concordia College in Minnesota, also celebrates Midsummer.\n\nThe Seattle neighborhood of Fremont puts on a large Summer Solstice Parade and Pageant, which for many years has controversially included painted naked cyclists. In St. Edwards Park in Kenmore, the Skandia Folkdance Society hosts , which includes a Scandinavian solstice pole.\n\nA solstitial celebration is held on Casper Mountain at Crimson Dawn park. Crimson Dawn is known in the area for the great stories of mythical creatures and people that live on Casper Mountain. The celebration is attended by many people from the community, and from around the country. A large bonfire is held and all are invited to throw a handful of red soil into the fire in hopes that they get their wish granted.\n\nAs forms of Neopaganism can be quite different and have very different origins, these representations can vary considerably, despite the shared name. Some celebrate in a manner as close as possible to how they believe ancient pagans observed the summer solstice, while others observe the holiday with rituals culled from numerous other unrelated sources, the Germanic culture being just one of the sources used. In Neo-druidism, the term \"Alban Hefin\" is used for the summer solstice. The name was invented by the late 18th century Welsh Romantic author and prolific literary forger Iolo Morganwg.\n\nGermanic neopagans call their summer solstice festival Litha, which is part of the reconstructed Germanic calendar used by some Germanic Neopagans and takes its name from Bede's \"De temporum ratione\" that provides Anglo-Saxon names for the months roughly corresponding to June and July as \"se Ærra Liþa\" and \"se Æfterra Liþa\" (the \"early Litha month\" and the \"later Litha month\") with an intercalary month of \"Liþa\" appearing after \"se Æfterra Liþa\" on leap years. In modern times, Litha is celebrated by neopagans who emphasize what they believe to be the reconstruction of Anglo-Saxon Germanic paganism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30634407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30634407", "title": "Mingqi", "text": "Mingqi\n\nMingqi (Chinese:  or ,  \"míngqì\"), sometimes referred to as \"spirit objects\" or \"vessels for ghosts\", are Chinese burial goods. They included daily utensils, musical instruments, weapons, armor, and intimate objects such as the deceased's cap, can and bamboo mat. Mingqi also could include figurines, spiritual representations rather than real people, of soldiers, servants, musicians, polo riders, houses, and horses. Extensive use of mingqi during certain periods may either have been an attempt to preserve the image of ritual propriety by cutting costs, or it may have a new idea separating the realm of the dead from that of the living.\n\nMingqi served to provide the deceased with necessities and comforts in the afterlife. The deceased person's \"po\" was said to remain in the realm of the tomb while the \"hun\" ascended to heaven. To appease and make worthwhile the deceased's \"po\", mingqi claimed relevant and liked by the deceased were placed in his tomb. Upon placing mingqi in the tomb, humans, according to the Confucian ideal, were harmonizing the cosmos by striking a balance for the comfort of the deceased who is also comforted in heaven.\n"}
{"id": "42772724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42772724", "title": "Mobile sales enablement", "text": "Mobile sales enablement\n\nMobile sales enablement is a systematic approach to helping sales representatives prepare for in-person prospect interactions, engage effectively with their audience using mobile devices in any place, and close deals faster. Mobile sales enablement should not be confused with the larger sales enablement process.\nThere are many ways that organizations use mobile devices to functionally enhance the sales process. Behaviors completed on a mobile device may include, but are not limited to the use of specialized applications, distribution of dynamic content, mobile email tactics or messaging such as push notifications, etc.\n\nMobile sales enablement is an extension of the long-standing sales enablement strategy. IDC defines sales enablement as: “Getting the right information into the hands of the right seller at the right time and place, and in the right format, to move a sales opportunity forward” When the first iPad was released, some entrepreneurs took the opportunity to develop mobile apps that enabled salesmen to sell everywhere. These were initiated out of costly custom agency builds that where difficult to maintain. As technology progressed, standardized apps were developed. Some apps focus on content distribution others are focused on more transactional functions.\n\nMobile sales enablement can be applied to all mobile devices. This often includes tablets and smartphones. However; the downside of smartphones is the smaller screen size, in comparison with a tablet which has a larger screen for sharing presentations or materials to an audience. Good apps will tailor the benefits of the solution to the specific selling behavior for the devices.\n\nThere is often confusion between the terms mobile sales enablement and customer relationship management. This is mostly due to the fact that a lot of CRM providers have a mobile version of their software. CRM software is designed to manage relationships with customers using a database of customers, prospects, and support staff. Meanwhile, mobile sales enablement is focused on making sales people more successful while on the go. Some mobile sales enablement solutions integrate seamlessly with an already existing CRM solution, thereby helping both tools to be more successful. \n\nResearch by Demand Metric into the cost of a bad sales experience indicated that a misalignment between sales and marketing is key to a loss in revenue. Specifically, 72% of sales and marketing professionals agree on this statement. 60% of these professionals often deliver bad sales experiences. The cause of this problem is due to sales thinking that marketing materials lacks quality, while marketers think salespeople aren’t using the content the right way. Mobile sales enablement provides a solution to this problem.\n\nIn a recent research conducted by BSharp Sales Enablers, 96% of field sales team said they preferred a mobile sales enablement solution to a PC based solution.\n\nProfitable Channels conducted research into the opportunities provided by mobile sales enablement. They found 3 areas where mobile sales enablement had a lot of potential:\n\n"}
{"id": "19026308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19026308", "title": "Music law", "text": "Music law\n\nMusic Law refers to legal aspects of the music industry, and certain legal aspects in other sectors of the entertainment industry. The music industry includes record labels, music publishers, merchandisers, the live events sector and of course performers and artists.\n\nThe terms \"music law\" and \"entertainment law\", along with \"business affairs\", are used by the music and entertainment industry and should not be thought of as academic definitions. Indeed, music law covers a range of traditional legal subjects including intellectual property law (copyright law, trademarks, image publicity rights, design rights), competition law, bankruptcy law, contract law, defamation and, for the live events industry, immigration law, health and safety law, and licensing.\n\n\nPublishing is the primary source of income for musicians writing their own music. Money collected from the 'publishing' rights is ultimately destined for songwriters - the composers of works, whether or not they are the recording artist or performer. Often, songwriters will work for a musical ensemble to help them with musical aspects of the composition, but here again, the writer of the song is the owner of it and will own the copyrights in the song and thus will be entitled to the publishing revenues. Copyrights in compositions are not the same as sound recordings. A recording artist can record a song and sell it to another band or company. As a result, that particular company will own the recording, but not the song. The original writer will always maintain the copyright for that particular song. The publishing money is connected to the copyright, so the owner will be the only one making money off of the song itself. All successful songwriters will join a collection society (such as ASCAP and BMI in the USA, SOCAN in Canada, JASRAC in Japan, GEMA in Germany and PRS for Music in the UK, etc.) and many will enter into agreements with music publishing companies who will exploit their works on the songwriters behalf for a share of ownership, although many of these deals involve the transfer (assignment) of copyright from the songwriter to the music publisher.\n\nBoth the recorded music sector and music publishing sector have their foundations in intellectual property law and all of the major recording labels and major music publishers and many independent record labels and publishers have dedicated \"business and legal affairs\" departments with in-house lawyers whose role is not only to secure intellectual property rights from recording artists, performers and songwriters but also to exploit those rights and protect those rights on a global basis. There are a number of specialist independent law firms around the world who advise on music and entertainment law whose clients include recording artists, performers, producers, songwriters, labels, music publishers, stage and set designers, choreographers, graphic artists, games designers, merchandisers, broadcasters, artist managers, distributors, collection societies and the live events sector (which further includes festivals, venues, promoters, booking agents and production service providers such as lighting and staging companies).\n\nThe US Government views artists that give concerts and sell merchandise as a business. Bands that tour internationally will also face a plethora of legislation around the world including health and safety laws, immigration laws and tax legislation. Also, many relationships are governed by often complex contractual agreements.\n\nIn the US it is important for musicians to get legal business licenses. These can be obtained at a city hall or local government center. The business license will require the tracking of sales, wages, and gigs. A tax ID is also necessary for all businesses. Musicians that fail to comply with the tax ID process and do not report their profits and losses to the government can face serious consequences with the IRS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50375537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50375537", "title": "National Alliance of High-level Local Universities", "text": "National Alliance of High-level Local Universities\n\nNational Alliance of High-level Local Universities, abbreviated as NAHLU, was formed jointly by Beijing University of Technology, Soochow University, Shanghai University, Zhengzhou University and Nanchang University in 2012.\n\nDecember 2012, the first summit was held in Beijing University of Technology.\n\nDecember 2013, National Regional High-Level University Development Summit held in Suzhou, organized by the Union with assistance of Soochow University and Shanghai University.\n\nOctober, 2014, Union summit held in Zhengzhou University. Leaders and representatives from 49 local colleges and universities participated.\n"}
{"id": "1902379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902379", "title": "National Latin Exam", "text": "National Latin Exam\n\nThe National Latin Exam is a test given to Latin students. Sponsored by the U.S.-based American Classical League and the National Junior Classical League, the exam was given in 2012 to over 136,000 students in the U.S., Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Iran, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Poland, United Kingdom, Zimbabwe, and for the first time Taiwan. The test covers general knowledge of Latin grammar and vocabulary, mythology, Roman culture, derivatives, and translation abilities.\n\nThe office of the National Latin Exam is located in Trinkle Hall on the campus of the University of Mary Washington in Fredericksburg, Virginia.\n\nThe philosophy of the National Latin Exam is predicated on providing every Latin student the opportunity to experience a sense of personal accomplishment and success in his or her study of the Latin language and culture. This opportunity exists for all students on the National Latin Exam since they are not competing with their fellow students on a comparative basis, but are evaluated solely on their own performance on the exam. The basic purposes of the NLE are to promote the study of Latin and to encourage the individual student.\n\nThe National Latin Exam is a forty question, multiple-choice test with a time limit of forty-five minutes; it is offered to students on seven levels.\n\nOn the Introduction to Latin, Latin I, Latin II, Latin III, Latin III/IV Prose, and Latin III/IV Poetry exams, there are questions on grammar, comprehension, mythology, derivatives, literature, Roman life, history, geography, oral Latin, and Latin in use in the modern world.\n\nThe Latin V-VI exam contains two Latin passages as the basis for questions on grammar, comprehension, historical background, classical literature, and literary devices.\n\nThe exam is scored based on the number of questions answered correctly, with no penalty for guessing.\n\nWhile a student can take an exam for a higher level than the one in which he or she is currently enrolled, the student may not take any level below his or her completion. The student is not required to take an actual Latin class to take an exam; however, the student must have an official sponsor and must take the exam with a proctor that is not the Latin teacher.\n\nSeveral awards are available to those students who excel on the NLE:\n\nFor Latin I-VI+:\n\nFor Introduction to Latin:\n\nAn NLE Certificate of Merit is also provided for each school participating in the exam.\n\nThe students who have three, four, or five years of perfect papers are sent special book awards in addition to the special certificate. The perfect papers must be for ascending levels of the exam exclusive of the Introduction to Latin exam.\n\nThe Maureen O’Donnell Oxford Classical Dictionary Award is given to students who win four gold medals in recognition of their outstanding achievement. The students who have won five gold medals will be sent special book awards.\n\nThe National Latin Exam offers three different types of scholarships:\n\nSeniors who win a gold medal on the Latin III, III-IV Prose, III-IV Poetry, or the Latin V-VI+ exam are eligible to apply for one of twenty-one $2,000 scholarships awarded annually. Those who apply must agree to take a least one course per semester of Latin or Classical Greek in their first year of college. Recipients may reapply, if they continue their study of Latin or Greek.\n\nStudents or teachers who are continuing their Latin or Greek on the post-graduate level are eligible to apply for one $2,000 scholarship awarded annually.\n\nThe Jane Harriman Hall Professional Development Scholarship program is designed to support teachers in their ability to teach Latin. The scholarship was developed in honor of Jane Harriman Hall, founder of the National Latin Exam, in order to continue her efforts to bring high quality Latin instruction to their students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "391896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=391896", "title": "Nomenclature", "text": "Nomenclature\n\nNomenclature is a system of names or terms, or the rules for forming these terms in a particular field of arts or sciences. The principles of naming vary from the relatively informal conventions of everyday speech to the internationally agreed principles, rules and recommendations that govern the formation and use of the specialist terms used in scientific and any other disciplines.\n\nNaming \"things\" is a part of general human communication using words and language: it is an aspect of everyday taxonomy as people distinguish the objects of their experience, together with their similarities and differences, which observers identify, name and classify. The use of names, as the many different kinds of nouns embedded in different languages, connects nomenclature to theoretical linguistics, while the way humans mentally structure the world in relation to word meanings and experience relates to the philosophy of language.\n\nOnomastics, the study of proper names and their origins, includes anthroponymy (concerned with human names, including personal names, surnames and nicknames); toponymy (the study of place names) and etymology (the derivation, history and use of names) as revealed through comparative and descriptive linguistics.\n\nThe scientific need for simple, stable and internationally accepted systems for naming objects of the natural world has generated many formal nomenclatural systems. Probably the best known of these nomenclatural systems are the five codes of biological nomenclature that govern the Latinized scientific names of organisms.\n\nThe word \"nomenclature\" is derived from the Latin \"nomen\" - name, and \"calare\" - to call; the Latin term \"nomenclatura\" refers to a list of names, as does the word \"[hujb which can also indicate a provider or announcer of names.\n\nThe study of proper names is known as onomastics, which has a wide-ranging scope encompassing all names, all languages, all geographical and cultural regions. The distinction between onomastics and nomenclature is not readily clear: onomastics is an unfamiliar discipline to most people and the use of nomenclature in an academic sense is also not commonly known. Although the two fields integrate, nomenclature concerns itself more with the rules and conventions that are used for the formation of names. \n\nSame things may be given different names and different things may be given the same name due to the social, political, religious and cultural motivations. Closely related similar things may be considered separate, and on the other hand considerably different things might be considered same, both due to the social-political-religious contextual reasons, for example closely related mutually intelligible sanskritised-Hindustani language Hindi versus arabised-Hindustani language Urdu being favored as separate languages by hindus and muslims respectively as seen in the context of hindu-muslim conflict resulting in violent 1947 Partition of India, where as mutually unintelligible speech varieties that differ considerably in structure such as Moroccan Arabic, Yemeni Arabic and Lebanese Arabic are considered same language due to the pan-Islamism religious identity.\n\nNames provide us with a way of structuring and mapping the world in our minds so, in some way, they mirror or represent the objects of our experience.\n\nElucidating the connections between language (especially names and nouns), meaning and the way we perceive the world has provided a rich field of study for philosophers and linguists. Relevant areas of study include: the distinction between proper names and proper nouns; and the relationship between names, their referents, meanings (semantics), and the structure of language.\n\nModern scientific taxonomy has been described as \"basically a Renaissance codification of folk taxonomic principles.\"\nFormal scientific nomenclatural and classification systems are exemplified by biological classification. All classification systems are established for a purpose. The scientific classification system anchors each organism within the nested hierarchy of internationally accepted classification categories. Maintenance of this system involves formal rules of nomenclature and periodic international meetings of review. This modern system evolved from the folk taxonomy of pre-history. Folk taxonomy can be illustrated through the Western tradition of horticulture and gardening. Unlike scientific taxonomy, folk taxonomies serve many purposes. Examples in horticulture would be the grouping of plants, and naming of these groups, according to their properties and uses: annuals, biennials and perennials (nature of life cycle); vegetables, fruits, culinary herbs and spices (culinary use); herbs, trees and shrubs (growth habit); wild and cultivated plants (whether they are managed or not), and weeds (whether they are considered to be a nuisance or not) and so on.\n\nFolk taxonomy is generally associated with the way rural or indigenous peoples use language to make sense of and organise the objects around them. Ethnobiology frames this interpretation through either \"utilitarianists\" like Bronislaw Malinowski who maintain that names and classifications reflect mainly material concerns, and \"intellectualists\" like Claude Lévi-Strauss who hold that they spring from innate mental processes. The literature of ethnobiological classifications was reviewed in 2006. Folk classification is defined by the way in which members of a language community name and categorize plants and animals whereas ethnotaxonomy refers to the hierarchical structure, organic content, and cultural function of biological classification that ethnobiologists find in every society around the world.\n\nEthnographic studies of the naming and classification of animals and plants in non-Western societies have revealed some general principles that indicate pre-scientific man’s conceptual and linguistic method of organising the biological world in a hierarchical way. Such studies indicate that the urge to classify is a basic human instinct.\n\nThe levels are — moving from the most to least inclusive:\n\nIn almost all cultures objects are named using one or two words equivalent to \"kind\" (genus) and \"particular kind\" (species). When made up of two words (a binomial) the name usually consists of a noun (like \"salt\", \"dog\" or \"star\") and an adjectival second word that helps describe the first, and therefore makes the name, as a whole, more \"specific\", for example, \"lap dog\", \"sea salt\", or \"film star\". The meaning of the noun used for a common name may have been lost or forgotten (\"whelk\", \"elm\", \"lion\", \"shark\", \"pig\") but when the common name is extended to two or more words much more is conveyed about the organism's use, appearance or other special properties (\"sting ray\", \"poison apple\", \"giant stinking hogweed\", \"hammerhead shark\"). These noun-adjective binomials are just like our own names with a family or surname like \"Simpson\" and another adjectival Christian or forename name that specifies which Simpson, say \"Homer Simpson\". It seems reasonable to assume that the form of scientific names we call binomial nomenclature is derived from this simple and practical way of constructing common names - but with the use of Latin as a universal language.\n\nIn keeping with the \"utilitarianist\" view other authors maintain that ethnotaxonomies resemble more a \"complex web of resemblances\" than a neat hierarchy.\n\nA name is a label for any noun. Names can identify a class or category of things, or a single thing, either uniquely, or within a given context. Names are given, for example, to humans or any other organisms, places, products - as in brand names - and even to ideas or concepts. It is names as nouns that are the building blocks of nomenclature.\n\nThe word \"name\" is possibly derived from the Proto-Indo-European language hypothesised word \"nomn\". The distinction between names and nouns, if made at all, is extremely subtle although clearly “noun” refers to names as lexical categories and their function within the context of language, rather that as “labels” for objects and properties.\n\nHuman personal names are presented, used and categorised in many ways depending on the language and culture. In most cultures (Indonesia is one exception) it is customary for individuals to be given at least two names. In Western culture, the first name is given at birth or shortly thereafter and is referred to as the given name, the forename, the baptismal name (if given then), or simply the first name. In England prior to the Norman invasion of 1066, small communities of Celts, Anglo-Saxons and Scandinavians generally used single names: each person was identified by a single name as either a personal name or nickname. As the population increased, it gradually became necessary to identify people further – giving rise to names like John the butcher, Henry from Sutton, and Roger son of Richard … which naturally evolved into John Butcher, Henry Sutton, and Roger Richardson. We now know this additional name variously as the second name, last name, family name, surname or occasionally the byname, and this natural tendency was accelerated by the Norman tradition of using surnames that were fixed and hereditary within individual families. In combination these two names are now known as the personal name or, simply, the name. There are many exceptions to this general rule: Westerners often insert a third or more names between the given and surnames; Chinese and Hungarian names have the family name preceding the given name; females now often retain their maiden names (their family surname) or combine, using a hyphen, their maiden name and the surname of their husband; some East Slavic nations insert the patronym (a name derived from the given name of the father) between the given and the family name; in Iceland the given name is used with the patronym, or matronym (a name derived from the given name of the mother), and surnames are rarely used. Nicknames (sometimes called hypocoristic names) are informal names used mostly between friends.\n\nThe distinction between proper names and common names is that proper names denote a unique entity e.g. London Bridge, while common names are used in a more general sense in reference to a class of objects e.g. bridge. Many proper names are obscure in meaning as they lack any apparent meaning in the way that ordinary words mean, probably for the practical reason that when they consist of Collective nouns, they refer to groups, even when they are inflected for the singular e.g. \"committee\". Concrete nouns like “cabbage” refer to physical bodies that can be observed by at least one of the senses while abstract nouns, like “love” and “hate” refer to abstract objects. In English, many abstract nouns are formed by adding noun-forming suffixes (\"-ness\", \"-ity\", \"-tion\") to adjectives or verbs e.g. \"happiness\", \"serenity\", “concentration”. Pronouns like \"he\", \"it\", \"which\", and \"those\" stand in place of nouns in noun phrases.\n\nThe capitalization of nouns varies with language and even the particular context: journals often have their own house styles for common names.\n\nDistinctions may be made between particular kinds of names simply by using the suffix -onym, from the Greek ὄνομα (ónoma) 'name'. So we have, for example, hydronyms name bodies of water, synonyms are names with the same meaning, and so on. The entire field could be described as chrematonymy - the names of things.\n\nToponyms are the names given to places or features of a particular district, region, etc. This could include planets, countries, cities, towns, villages, buildings etc.; it can be further divided into specialist branches: hodonymy, the names of streets, roads, and the like; hydronymy, the names of water bodies; and oronomy, the names of mountains. Toponymy has popular appeal because of its socio-cultural and historical interest and significance for cartography. However, work on the etymology of toponyms has found that many place names are descriptive, honorific or commemorative but frequently they have no meaning or the meaning is obscure or lost. Also the many categories of names are frequently interrelated. For example, many place-names are derived from personal names (Victoria), many names of planets and stars are derived from the names of mythological characters (Venus, Neptune), and many personal names are derived from place-names, names of nations and the like (Wood, Bridge).\n\nIn biological science, at least, nomenclature is regarded as a part of (though distinct from) taxonomy. Taxonomy can be defined as the study of classification including its principles, procedures and rules, while classification itself is the ordering of taxa (the objects of classification) into groups based on similarities or differences. Doing taxonomy entails identifying, describing and naming taxa, so nomenclature, in this strict scientific sense, is that branch of taxonomy concerned with the application of scientific names to taxa, based on a particular classification scheme and in accordance with agreed international rules and conventions.\n\nIdentification determines whether a particular organism matches a taxon that has already been classified and named – so classification must precede identification. This procedure is sometimes referred to as “determination\".\n\nThe precision demanded by science in the accurate naming of objects in the natural world has resulted in a variety of international nomenclatural codes.\n\nAlthough Linnaeus’ system of binomial nomenclature was rapidly adopted after the publication of his Species Plantarum and Systema Naturae in 1753 and 1758 respectively, it was a long time before there was international consensus concerning the more general rules governing biological nomenclature. The first botanical code was produced in 1905, the zoological code in 1889 and cultivated plant code in 1953. Agreement on the nomenclature and symbols for genes emerged in 1979.\n\nOver the last few hundred years, the number of identified astronomical objects has risen from hundreds to over a billion, and more are discovered every year. Astronomers need universal systematic designations to unambiguously identify all of these objects using astronomical naming conventions, while assigning names to the most interesting objects and, where relevant, naming important or interesting features of those objects.\n\nThe IUPAC nomenclature is a system of naming chemical compounds and for describing the science of chemistry in general. It is maintained by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry. The rules for naming organic and inorganic compounds are printed in two publications, the \"Blue Book\" and the \"Red Book\" available\nhere. A third publication, \"Green Book\", contains recommendations for the use of symbols for physical quantities (in association with the IUPAP), while a fourth, the \"Gold Book\", defines a large number of technical terms used in chemistry. Similar compendia exist for biochemistry (in association with the IUBMB), analytical chemistry and macromolecular chemistry. These books are supplemented by shorter recommendations for specific circumstances which are published from time to time in the journal \"Pure and Applied Chemistry\". These systems can be accessed here.\n\nThe classic English translation of \"De re metallica\" includes an appendix (Appendix C) detailing problems of nomenclature in weights and measures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42842374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42842374", "title": "PACE - Communication Plan", "text": "PACE - Communication Plan\n\nPACE is an acronym and methodology used to build a communication plan. PACE stands for Primary, Alternate, Contingency, and Emergency means (i.e. technologies or systems) of communication. The method requires the author to determine the different parties that need to communicate and then determine, if possible, the best four forms of communication between each of those parties. PACE also designates the order in which an element will move through available communications systems until contact can be established with the desired distant element(s). Ideally each method will be completely separate and independent of the other systems of communication. For each method, the receiver must first sense which one the sender is using and then respond.\n\nA PACE-based Communication Plan exists for a specific mission or task, not a specific unit, because the plan must consider both intra- and inter-unit sharing of information. An organization may have multiple plans for different situations, activities, and/or partners. \n\nPer the US Army, a PACE Comm plan \"designates the order in which an element will move through available communications systems until contact can be established with the desired distant element.\"\n\nA PACE plan is not a frequency plan (which details frequency allocation and radio spectrum characteristics) or band plan (to avoid interference) or channel plan (which details which channels users listen/talk upon) or deployment plan (which details the users' radios types and locations). \nPrimary = the best and intended method of communication between parties.\n\nAlternate = another common but less-optimal method of accomplishing the task. Often monitored concurrently with primary means.\n\nContingency = method will not be as fast/easy/inexpensive/convenient as the first two methods but is capable of accomplishing the task. Often (but undesirably) the receiver rarely monitors this method.\n\nEmergency = method of last resort and typically has significant delays, costs, and/or impacts. Often only monitored when the others means fail.\nA few examples.\n"}
{"id": "217109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217109", "title": "Public bad", "text": "Public bad\n\nA public bad, in economics, is the symmetry of a public good. Air pollution is the most obvious example since it is non-excludable and non-rival, and negatively affects welfare.\n\nWhereas public goods are typically under-provided by decentralized decision making (the market), public bad will generally be over-provided, since the parties generating the public bad do not account for the negative effects (or externality) imposed on others. One possibility to mitigate the existence of public bad is the intervention of a third party, typically the state.\n\nIn \"green economics\", it is a good that produces socially undesirable results (or an externality in standard economics). Most \"green economists\" advise measuring such impacts back to the present from the seventh generation. Thus in the golf course example, both the recreation and the negative impacts from deforestation, associated habitat and biodiversity loss, and pesticide toxicity would be estimated across those generations and some amortization applied to determine whether the golf course was a public benefit or a public bad from the point of view of that seventh generation.\n\nGreen economists argue that the costs of public bads are hidden as externalities from the businesses that cause them — meaning the market is not working correctly. The legal challenge is to create a system that takes into account these costs. The United States Environmental Protection Agency is an example of an attempt to make sure the costs of public bads are taken into account, although some groups on the right and left have criticized the value of its efforts.\n\n"}
{"id": "43136637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43136637", "title": "Radius clause", "text": "Radius clause\n\nA radius clause is a form of non-compete clause used in the live music industry, in which a tour promoter stipulates that a performer, for a certain length of time prior to or following an appearance at a concert or festival, must not hold concerts at other locations within a certain radius of the city where they are to perform. In essence, it gives the promoter a form of territorial exclusivity, ensuring that the performer does not book concerts with competing promoters and venues in nearby areas, which can undermine ticket sales for their main event.\n\nCritics in favor of radius clauses have agreed with their intent to protect the investments of organizers into the production and promotion of music events, and that they are a worthwhile trade-off for acts wanting to obtain the expanded exposure that a festival performance can provide. Others have criticized the concept, arguing that they effectively discourage major acts from performing in smaller cities, and are influenced by a profit-oriented mentality in the live events industry. In 2010, the state of Illinois also launched an antitrust investigation into the use of radius clauses by Lollapalooza.\n\nRadius clauses contractually ensure that a particular act does not hold events at competing venues or festivals within a certain distance of a city in which they are scheduled to perform, for a length of time prior to and/or after the performance. For example, a band booked to perform at a venue in San Francisco may be barred from performing in cities within a radius of San Francisco, for 60 days, before and after the concert. These clauses intend to maximize ticket sales; as an act cannot also perform concerts in smaller, nearby markets, fans in these markets are forced to instead buy tickets for the act in the major market.\n\nThe use of radius clauses has been considered controversial by some venue owners—especially those who own small-market venues in proximity to larger markets, or those in markets with a large number of venues—as they affect their ability to book major acts. In the city of Chicago, radius clauses imposed by the city's major music festival Lollapalooza can make it difficult for venues and block parties around the city to book major acts during the lucrative summer months. Similar effects are faced by the Greater Los Angeles Area in the lead-up to the Coachella Festival, although they are not as pronounced as those of Lollapalooza because their radius clauses fall during the winter months.\n\nDangerbird Records founder Jeff Castelaz argued that such clauses were a \"reality\" in the music business, and that in relation to music festivals, since promoters are putting up millions of millions of dollars to market and promote this festival, not to mention the money that they're putting on the table as guarantees for the bands, they have to have rules about people playing in the markets where they'll get their tickets from. On the other hand, while noting that festival appearances can be a significant milestone for an up-and-coming act rather than exclusively playing clubs, talent agency head Tom Windish felt that there was a mentality in the live events industry where \"if you don't have 75,000 people at your event, it's a failure.\"\n\nThe Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival uses radius clauses which, as of 2012, could prevent acts from performing in Los Angeles, the Inland Empire, or San Diego for up to three months before and after the festival. The festival has allowed some of its acts to make appearances in the region prior to the festival, but only at events and venues owned or controlled by festival owner Anschutz Entertainment Group (AEG)—such as Jay-Z at Staples Center in 2010. That year also marked the first time Coachella had ever sold out in advance.\n\nIn 2018, the organizers of the Portland, Oregon Soul'd Out Music Festival filed an antitrust lawsuit against AEG, alleging that Coachella had enforced radius clauses much stricter than previously reported. In its original complaint, the organizers stated that the restrictions had extended to the entirety of California, as well as Arizona, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington. In an amended complaint, the organizers identified that Coachella performers are forbidden from:\n\nIn April 2010, it was reported that Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan had launched an antitrust investigation into the Lollapalooza festival's use of radius clauses. It was alleged that the festival had imposed radius clauses on performers that were so strict, that some acts were barred from performing within of Chicago—including cities as far as Detroit, Indianapolis, and Milwaukee—for as long as six months prior to, and three months after Lollapalooza.\n\nIn June 2014, the Toronto festival NXNE announced that it would drop a 45-day radius clause it had implemented for its 2014 edition, following protests by fans and artists (including a Change.org petition with over 3000 signatures), with a particular emphasis on its effects on emerging artists. NXNE 2014 marked the first time that it had been held just weeks after Canadian Music Week (CMW)—which had moved to May from its traditional March date; the clause had been implemented primarily to prevent NXNE acts from performing at CMW.\n\nIn 2017, South By Southwest (SXSW) was the subject of criticism for several controversial clauses in its performance contracts, including one warning that international performers entering the United States under the Visa Waiver Program to perform at SXSW would face threats of deportation and passport revocation if they performed outside of their \"official\" events (a large number of parties unaffiliated with SXSW are held in Austin alongside the official festival). Managing director Roland Swenson stated that this clause was based on U.S. immigration law; performing in the country requires a work visa, but SXSW performers have typically qualified under the Visa Waiver Program because it classifies itself as an \"industry showcase\". Those who do perform under this clause are legally forbidden from performing any shows beyond the specific showcase they have been granted permission for. Some critics initially interpreted this statement as being a traditional radius clause.\n"}
{"id": "48680292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48680292", "title": "Raghunathabhyudayam", "text": "Raghunathabhyudayam\n\nThe Raghunāthābhyudayam (or \"Raghunāthā-bhyudayam\", \"Raghunāthābhyudaya\", \"Ragunatha Abhyudaya\") by Rāmabhadrāmbā, one of the wives of the Thanjavur Nayak king Raghunatha Nayak (r. 1600-34), is a Sanskrit \"mahākāvya\" in twelve cantos. It was designed to valorise Raghunatha, situating his career as a type of the life of Rāma-Viṣṇu-Kṛṣṇa.\n\nThe first few cantos of the poem invoke Raghunatha, seeking his patronage and assistance, and praise his generosity, piety, and intellect. Canto 4 presents Raghunatha's ancestry and the subsequent cantos discuss his early life and military successes. He succeeds his father Achuthappa Nayak in canto 8 and continues with his military exploits. The last two cantos focus on the cultural activities and artistic achievements of his court, with a colophon in which Rāmabhadrāmbā emphasises her own merits.\n\nThe poem was first brought to scholarly attention by S. Krishnaswami Ayyangar in 1919, after he found it in November 1916. The poem was fiercely criticised by an early reviewer of the first scholarly edition, who claimed that Rāmabhadrāmbā 'had thoroughly assimilated the art of composing a poem of surpassing tediousness and consisting of the most abject flattery of her royal patron' and did not think the poem would have any interest to historians. But it has since been identified as a significant source for the cultural history of seventeenth-century south India.\n\nRāmabhadrāmbā's Sanskrit \"Raghunāthābhyudayam\" is not to be confused with the identically named Telugu poem the \"Raghunāthābhyudayam\" and the similarly named \"Raghunāthanāyakabhyudayamu\", both composed by Raghunatha's eldest son and successor, Vijayarāghava Nāyaka.\n\n"}
{"id": "12674646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12674646", "title": "South West African mark", "text": "South West African mark\n\nThe South-West African mark was a temporary currency issued between 1916 after the withdrawal of the German South-West African mark, and prior to the introduction of the South African pound in 1918.\n\nA number of notes were denominated in South West African marks and pfennig, especially by the Swakopmund Bookshop that issued 10, 25, 50 Pfennig, and 1, 2, and 3 mark notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "43315328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43315328", "title": "The Anubis Tapestry", "text": "The Anubis Tapestry\n\nThe Anubis Tapestry: Between Twilights is a 2006 fantasy novel written and illustrated by Bruce Zick.\n\nChance Henry's archaeologist father accidentally awakens an evil mummy who steals his soul. Chance risks becoming a mummy himself to rescue his father from the Egyptian Underworld.\n\nIn 2008, Blue Sky Studios acquired the film rights for an animated film titled \"Anubis\". David H. Steinberg wrote the first draft for the film. The film was scheduled for release on March 23, 2018 by 20th Century Fox, but, by June 2017, it had been removed from its schedule for unknown reasons.\n"}
{"id": "414113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414113", "title": "The Lord of the Rings (film series)", "text": "The Lord of the Rings (film series)\n\nThe Lord of the Rings is a film series consisting of three epic fantasy adventure films directed by Peter Jackson. They are based on the novel \"The Lord of the Rings\" by J. R. R. Tolkien. The films are subtitled \"\" (2001), \"\" (2002) and \"\" (2003). They are a New Zealand-American venture produced by WingNut Films and The Saul Zaentz Company and distributed by New Line Cinema.\n\nThe trilogy was one of the biggest and most ambitious film projects ever undertaken. It had a budget of $281 to $330 million depending on the source. All three films were shot over eight years simultaneously and entirely in Jackson's native New Zealand. One in every 160 New Zealanders was part of the production. Each film in the series also had special extended editions released on DVD a year after their respective theatrical releases. While the films follow the book's general storyline, they do omit some of the novel's plot elements and include some additions to and deviations from the source material.\n\nSet in the fictional world of Middle-earth, the films follow the hobbit Frodo Baggins (Elijah Wood) as he and the Fellowship embark on a quest to destroy the One Ring, and thus ensure the destruction of its maker, the Dark Lord Sauron. The Fellowship eventually splits up and Frodo continues the quest together with his loyal companion Sam (Sean Astin) and the treacherous Gollum (Andy Serkis). Meanwhile, Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen), heir in exile to the throne of Gondor, Legolas, Gimli, Merry, Pippin, and the wizard Gandalf (Ian McKellen) unite to rally the Free Peoples of Middle-earth in the War of the Ring.\n\nThe series was received with overwhelming praise and was a major financial success, with the films collectively being among the highest-grossing film series of all time. The films were critically acclaimed and heavily awarded, winning 17 out of 30 total Academy Award nominations. The final film in the series, \"The Return of the King\", won all 11 of its Academy Award nominations including Best Picture, which also tied it with \"Ben-Hur\" and \"Titanic\" for most Academy Awards received for a film. The series received wide praise for its innovative special and visual effects.\n\nDirector Peter Jackson first came into contact with \"The Lord of the Rings\" when he saw Ralph Bakshi's 1978 animated film \"The Lord of the Rings\". Jackson \"enjoyed the film and wanted to know more.\" Afterwards, he read a tie-in edition of the book during a twelve-hour train journey from Wellington to Auckland when he was seventeen.\n\nIn 1995, Jackson was finishing \"The Frighteners\" and considered \"The Lord of the Rings\" as a new project, wondering \"why nobody else seemed to be doing anything about it\". With the new developments in computer-generated imagery following \"Jurassic Park\", Jackson set about planning a fantasy film that would be relatively serious and feel real. By October, he and his partner Fran Walsh teamed up with Miramax Films boss Harvey Weinstein to negotiate with Saul Zaentz who had held the rights to the book since the early 1970s, pitching an adaptation of \"The Hobbit\" and two films based on \"The Lord of the Rings\". Negotiations then stalled when Universal Studios offered Jackson a remake of \"King Kong\". Weinstein was furious, and further problems arose when it turned out Zaentz did not have distribution rights to \"The Hobbit\"; United Artists, which was in the market, did. By April 1996, the rights question was still not resolved.\n\nJackson decided to move ahead with \"King Kong\" before filming \"The Lord of the Rings\", prompting Universal to enter a deal with Miramax to receive foreign earnings from \"The Lord of the Rings\" while Miramax received foreign earnings from \"King Kong\". It was also revealed that Jackson originally wanted to finish \"King Kong\" before \"The Lord of the Rings\" began. But due to location problems, he decided to start with \"The Lord of the Rings\" franchise instead.\n\nWhen Universal cancelled \"King Kong\" in 1997, Jackson and Walsh immediately received support from Weinstein and began a six-week process of sorting out the rights. Jackson and Walsh asked Costa Botes to write a synopsis of the book and they began to re-read the book. Two to three months later, they had written their treatment. The first film would have dealt with what would become \"\", \"\", and the beginning of \"\", ending with Saruman's death, and Gandalf and Pippin going to Minas Tirith. In this treatment, Gwaihir and Gandalf visit Edoras after escaping Saruman, Gollum attacks Frodo when the Fellowship is still united, and Farmer Maggot, Glorfindel, Radagast, Elladan and Elrohir are present. Bilbo attends the Council of Elrond, Sam looks into Galadriel's mirror, Saruman is redeemed before he dies and the Nazgûl just make it into Mount Doom before they fall. They presented their treatment to Harvey and Bob Weinstein, the latter of whom they focused on impressing with their screenwriting as he had not read the book. They agreed upon two films and a total budget of $75 million.\n\nDuring mid-1997, Jackson and Walsh began writing with Stephen Sinclair. Sinclair's partner, Philippa Boyens, was a major fan of the book and joined the writing team after reading their treatment. It took 13–14 months to write the two film scripts, which were 147 and 144 pages respectively. Sinclair left the project due to theatrical obligations. Amongst their revisions, Sam is caught eavesdropping and forced to go along with Frodo, as occurs in the original novel. In the final treatment Sam, Merry, and Pippin infer the existence of One Ring and voluntarily go along after confronting Frodo about it. Gandalf's account of his time at Orthanc was pulled out of flashback and Lothlórien was cut, with Galadriel doing what she does in the story at Rivendell. Denethor attends the Council with his son. Other changes included having Arwen rescue Frodo, and the action sequence involving the cave troll. The writers also considered having Arwen absorb Éowyn's role entirely by having her kill the Witch-king.\n\nTrouble struck when Marty Katz was sent to New Zealand. Spending four months there, he told Miramax that the films were more likely to cost $150 million, and with Miramax unable to finance this, and with $15 million already spent, they decided to merge the two films into one. On 17 June 1998, Bob Weinstein presented a treatment of a single two-hour film version of the book. He suggested cutting Bree and the Battle of Helm's Deep, \"losing or using\" Saruman, merging Rohan and Gondor with Éowyn as Boromir's sister, shortening Rivendell and Moria as well as having Ents prevent the Uruk-hai from kidnapping Merry and Pippin. Upset by the idea of \"cutting out half the good stuff\" Jackson balked, and Miramax declared that any script or work completed by Weta Workshop was theirs. Jackson went around Hollywood for four weeks, showing a thirty-five-minute video of their work, before meeting with New Line Cinema's Mark Ordesky. At New Line Cinema, Robert Shaye viewed the video, and then asked why they were making two films when the book was published as three volumes (this was later corrected: New Line only made this choice out of economical reasons); he wanted to make a film trilogy. Now Jackson, Walsh, and Boyens had to write three new scripts.\n\nThe expansion to three films allowed much more creative freedom, although Jackson, Walsh, and Boyens had to restructure their script accordingly. The three films do not correspond exactly to the trilogy's three volumes, but rather represent a three-part adaptation. Jackson takes a more chronological approach to the story than did Tolkien. Frodo's quest is the main focus, and Aragorn is the main sub-plot, and many sequences (such as Tom Bombadil) that do not contribute directly to those two plots were left out. Much effort was put into creating satisfactory conclusions and making sure exposition did not bog down the pacing. Amongst new sequences, there are also expansions on elements Tolkien kept ambiguous, such as the battles and the creatures. During shooting, the screenplays continued to evolve, in part due to contributions from cast members looking to further explore their characters. Most notable amongst these rewrites was the character Arwen, who was originally planned as a warrior princess, but reverted to her book counterpart, who remains physically inactive in the story (though she sends moral and military support).\n\nTo develop fight and sword choreography for the series, the filmmakers employed Hollywood sword-master Bob Anderson. Anderson worked directly with the talent including Viggo Mortensen and Karl Urban to develop the film's many sword fights and stunts. Bob Anderson's role in \"The Lord of the Rings\" series was highlighted in the film \"Reclaiming the Blade\". This documentary on sword martial arts also featured Weta Workshop and Richard Taylor, \"The Lord of the Rings\" illustrator John Howe and actors Viggo Mortensen and Karl Urban. All discussed their roles and work on the series as related to the sword.\n\nJackson began storyboarding the series with Christian Rivers in August 1997 and assigned his crew to begin designing Middle-earth at the same time. Jackson hired long-time collaborator Richard Taylor to lead Weta Workshop on five major design elements: armour, weapons, prosthetics/make-up, creatures, and miniatures. In November 1997, famed Tolkien illustrators Alan Lee and John Howe joined the project. Most of the imagery in the films is based on their various illustrations. Production designer Grant Major was charged with the task of converting Lee and Howe's designs into architecture, creating models of the sets, while Dan Hennah worked as art director, scouting locations and organising the building of sets.\n\nJackson's vision of Middle-earth was described as being \"Ray Harryhausen meets David Lean\" by Randy Cook. Jackson wanted a gritty realism and historical regard for the fantasy, and attempted to make the world rational and believable. For example, the New Zealand Army helped build Hobbiton months before filming began so the plants could really grow. Creatures were designed to be biologically believable, such as the enormous wings of the fell beast to help it fly. In total, 48,000 pieces of armour, 500 bows, and 10,000 arrows were created by Weta Workshop. They also created many prosthetics, such as 1,800 pairs of Hobbit feet for the lead actors, as well as many ears, noses, and heads for the cast, and around 19,000 costumes were woven and aged. Every prop was specially designed by the Art Department, taking the different scales into account.\n\nPrincipal photography for all three films was conducted concurrently in many locations within New Zealand's conservation areas and national parks. Filming took place between 11 October 1999 and 22 December 2000, a period of days. Pick-up shoots were conducted annually from 2001 to 2003. The series was shot at over 150 different locations, with seven different units shooting, as well as soundstages around Wellington and Queenstown. Along with Jackson directing the whole production, other unit directors included John Mahaffie, Geoff Murphy, Fran Walsh, Barrie Osbourne, Rick Porras, and any other assistant director, producer, or writer available. Jackson monitored these units with live satellite feeds, and with the added pressure of constant script re-writes and the multiple units interpreting his envisioned result, he only got around four hours of sleep a night. Due to the remoteness of some of the locations, the crew would also bring survival kits in case helicopters could not reach the location to bring them home in time. The New Zealand Department of Conservation was criticised for approving the filming within national parks without adequate consideration of the adverse environmental effects and without public notification. The adverse effects of filming battle scenes in Tongariro National Park meant that the park later required restoration work.\n\nThe following is a list of cast members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the extended version of \"The Lord of the Rings\" film series.\n\nEach film had the benefit of a full year of post-production time before its respective December release, often finishing in October–November, with the crew immediately going to work on the next film. In this period's later part, Jackson would move to London to supervise the scoring and continue editing, while having a computer feed for discussions to The Dorchester Hotel, and a \"fat pipe\" of Internet connections from Pinewood Studios to look at the special effects. He had a video link and 5.1 surround sound to organise meetings, and listen to new music and sound effects generally wherever he was. The extended editions also had a tight schedule at the start of each year to complete special effects and music.\n\nTo avoid pressure, Jackson hired a different editor for each film. John Gilbert worked on the first film, Mike Horton and Jabez Olssen on the second and longtime Jackson collaborator Jamie Selkirk and Annie Collins on the third. Daily rushes would often last up to four hours, with scenes being done throughout 1999–2002 for the rough (4½ hours) assemblies of the films. In total, 1828 km (six million feet) of film was edited down to the 11 hours and 23 minutes (683 minutes) of Extended running time. This was the final area of shaping of the films, when Jackson realised that sometimes the best scripting could be redundant on screen, as he picked apart scenes every day from multiple takes.\n\nThe first film's editing was relatively easygoing, with Jackson coming up with the concept of an Extended Edition later on, although after a screening to New Line they had to re-edit the beginning for a prologue. \"The Two Towers\" was always acknowledged by the crew as the most difficult film to make, as \"it had no beginning or end\", and had the additional problem of inter-cutting storylines appropriately. Jackson even continued editing the film when that part of the schedule officially ended, resulting in some scenes, including the reforging of Andúril, Gollum's back-story, and Saruman's demise, being moved to \"The Return of the King\". Later, Saruman's demise was cut from the theatrical edition (but included in the Extended edition) when Jackson felt it was not starting the third film effectively enough. As with all parts of the third film's post-production, editing was very chaotic. The first time Jackson actually saw the completed film was at the Wellington premiere.\n\nMany filmed scenes remain unused, even in the Extended Editions. Promotional material for \"The Fellowship of the Ring\" contained an attack by Orcs from Moria on Lothlórien after the Fellowship leaves Moria, replaced with a more suspenseful entrance for the Fellowship. Also cut were scenes from the book, including Frodo seeing more of Middle-earth at Parth Galen and an extended Council of Elrond, and new scenes with an attack upon Frodo and Sam at the river Anduin by an Uruk-hai. The major cut to \"The Two Towers\" featured Arwen and Elrond visiting Galadriel at Lothlórien, with Arwen then leading the Elven reinforcements to Helm's Deep. This scene, and a flashback to Arwen and Aragorn's first meeting, was cut during a revision of the film's plot; the Elves' appearance was explained with a telepathic communication between Elrond and Galadriel.\n\nÉowyn was to have a greater role in defending the refugees in the Glittering Caves from Uruk-hai intruders, while in Osgiliath, Faramir was to have a vision of Frodo becoming like Gollum, with Frodo and Sam having an extended fight sequence. Filmed for \"The Return of the King\" were two scenes present in the book; Sam using the Phial of Galadriel to pass the Watchers at Cirith Ungol, and further epilogue footage, with endings for Legolas and Gimli, Éowyn and Faramir's wedding and Aragorn's death and funeral. Sauron was to fight Aragorn at the Black Gate, but with Jackson deciding the scene was inappropriate, a computer-generated Troll was used instead. To give context for Wormtongue killing Saruman, and Legolas in turn killing Wormtongue, it was to be revealed Wormtongue poisoned Théodred. The final scene cut was Aragorn having his armour fitted for the Battle of the Black Gate by the trilogy's armourers, which was the final scene filmed during principal photography. Peter Jackson has stated that he would like to include some of these unused scenes in a future \"Ultimate Edition\" home video release, also including out-takes.\n\nHoward Shore composed, orchestrated, conducted, and produced the trilogy's music. He was hired in August 2000 and visited the set, and watched the assembly cuts of \"The Fellowship of the Ring\" and \"The Return of the King\". In the music, Shore included many (85 to 110) leitmotifs to represent various characters, cultures, and places - the largest catalogue of leitmotives in the history of cinema, surpassing - for comparison - that of the entire Star Wars saga. For example, there are multiple leitmotifs just for the hobbits and the Shire. Although the first film had some of its score recorded in Wellington, virtually all of the trilogy's score was recorded in Watford Town Hall and mixed at Abbey Road Studios. Jackson planned to advise the score for six weeks each year in London, though for \"The Two Towers\" he stayed for twelve. As a Beatles fan, Jackson had a photo tribute done there on the zebra crossing.\n\nThe score is primarily played by the London Philharmonic Orchestra (ranging from 93 to 120 players throughout the recording), London Voices, London Oratory School Schola boy choir, and many artists such as Ben Del Maestro, Enya, Renée Fleming, James Galway, Annie Lennox and Emilíana Torrini contributed. Even actors Billy Boyd, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Miranda Otto (extended cuts only for the latter two), and Peter Jackson (for a single gong sound in the second film) contributed to the score. Fran Walsh and Philippa Boyens served as librettists, writing lyrics to various music and songs, which David Salo translated into Tolkien's languages. The third film's end song, \"Into the West\", was a tribute to a young filmmaker Jackson and Walsh befriended named Cameron Duncan, who died of cancer in 2003.\n\nShore composed a main theme for \"The Fellowship\" rather than many different character themes, and its strength and weaknesses in volume are depicted at different points in the series. On top of that, individual themes were composed to represent different cultures. Infamously, the amount of music Shore had to write every day for the third film increased dramatically to around seven minutes. The music for the series turned out to be a success and has been voted best movie soundtrack of all time for the six years running, passing \"Schindler's List\", \"Gladiator\", \"Star Wars\" (1977), and \"Out of Africa\" respectively.\n\nSound technicians spent the early part of the year trying to find the right sounds. Some, such as animal sounds like those of tigers and walruses, were bought. Human voices were also used. Fran Walsh contributed to the Nazgûl scream and David Farmer the Warg howls. Other sounds were unexpected: the fell beast's screech is taken from that of a donkey, and the \"mûmakil\"'s bellow comes from the beginning and end of a lion's roar. In addition, ADR was used for most of the dialogue.\n\nThe technicians worked with New Zealand locals to get many of the sounds. They re-recorded sounds in abandoned tunnels for an echo-like effect in the Moria sequence. 20,000 New Zealand cricket fans provided the sound of the Uruk-hai army in \"The Two Towers\", with Jackson acting as conductor during the innings break of a one-day international cricket match between England and New Zealand at Westpac Stadium. They spent time recording sounds in a graveyard at night, and also had construction workers drop stone blocks for the sounds of boulders firing and landing in \"The Return of the King\". Mixing took place between August and November at \"The Film Mix\", before Jackson commissioned the building of a new studio in 2003. The building, however, had not yet been fully completed when they started mixing for \"The Return of the King\".\n\nThe first film has around 540 effect shots, the second 799, and the third 1,488 (2,730 in total). The total increases to 3,420 with the extended editions. 260 visual effect artists began work on the series, and the number doubled by \"The Two Towers\". The crew, led by Jim Rygiel and Randy Cook, worked long hours, often overnight, to produce special effects within a short space of time. Jackson's active imagination was a driving force. For example, several major shots of Helm's Deep were produced within the last six weeks of post-production of \"The Two Towers\", and the same happened again within the last six weeks on \"The Return of the King\".\n\nThe trilogy's online promotional trailer was first released on 27 April 2000, and set a new record for download hits, registering 1.7 million hits in the first 24 hours of its release. The trailer used a selection from the soundtrack for \"Braveheart\" and \"The Shawshank Redemption\" among other cuts. In 2001, 24 minutes of footage from the series, primarily the Moria sequence, was shown at the Cannes Film Festival, and was very well received. The showing also included an area designed to look like Middle-earth.\n\n\"\" was released 19 December 2001. It grossed $47 million in its U.S. opening weekend and made around $871 million worldwide. A preview of \"\" was inserted just before the end credits near the end of the film's theatrical run. A promotional trailer was later released, containing music re-scored from the film \"Requiem for a Dream\". \"The Two Towers\" was released 18 December 2002. It grossed $62 million in its first U.S. weekend and out-grossed its predecessor with $926 million worldwide. The promotional trailer for \"\" was debuted exclusively before the New Line Cinema film \"Secondhand Lions\" on 23 September 2003. Released 17 December 2003, its first U.S. weekend gross was $72 million, and became the second film (after \"Titanic\") to gross over $1 billion worldwide.\n\nThe first two films were released on standard two-disc edition DVDs containing previews of the next film. The success of the theatrical cuts brought about four-disc Extended Editions, with new editing, added special effects and music. The extended cuts of the films and the included special features were spread over two discs, and a limited collector's edition was also released. \"The Fellowship of the Ring\" was released on 12 November 2002, containing 30 minutes more footage, an Alan Lee painting of the Fellowship entering Moria, and the Moria Gate on the back of the sleeve; an Argonath-styled bookend was included with the Collector's Edition. \"The Two Towers\", released on 18 November 2003, contained 44 minutes extra footage and a Lee painting of Gandalf the White's entrance; the Collector's Edition contained a Sméagol statue, with a crueller-looking statue of his Gollum persona available by order for a limited time.\n\n\"The Return of the King\" was released on 14 December 2004, having 51 minutes more footage, a Lee painting of the Grey Havens and a model of Minas Tirith for the Collector's Edition, with Minas Morgul available by order for a limited time. The Special Extended DVD Editions also had in-sleeve maps of the Fellowship's travels. They have also played at cinemas, most notably for a 16 December 2003 marathon screening (dubbed \"Trilogy Tuesday\") culminating in a late afternoon screening of the third film. Attendees of \"Trilogy Tuesday\" were given a limited edition keepsake from Sideshow Collectibles containing one random frame of film from each of the three movies. Both versions were put together in a Limited Edition \"branching\" version, plus a new feature-length documentary by Costa Botes. The complete series was released in a six-disc set on 14 November 2006.\n\nWarner Bros. released the trilogy's theatrical versions on Blu-ray Disc in a boxed set on 6 April 2010. An extended edition Blu-ray box set was made available for pre-order from Amazon.com in March 2011 and was released on 28 June 2011. Each film's extended Blu-ray version is identical to the extended DVD version; the total running time is longer due to added credit sequence listing the names of \"\"Lord of the Rings\" fan-club members\" who contributed to the project.\n\nIn 2014, brand new Blu-ray steelbook editions of the five-disc Extended Editions were released. The first, \"The Fellowship of the Ring\", was released on 24 March 2014. The discs are identical to those found in the previous five-disc Blu-ray set.\n\nUnadjusted for inflation, \"The Lord of the Rings\" film series is the highest-grossing film trilogy worldwide of all time, higher even than other film franchises such as the original \"Star Wars\" trilogy and \"The Godfather\" trilogy. The film series grossed a total of $2.91 billion and also tied a record with \"Ben-Hur\" and \"Titanic\" for the total number of Academy Awards won for a single film, with \"\" receiving eleven Oscars.\n\nThe majority of critics have also praised the series, with Kenneth Turan of the \"Los Angeles Times\" writing that \"the trilogy will not soon, if ever, find its equal\". Some were critical of the films' pacing and length: \"It's a collection of spectacular set pieces without any sense of momentum driving them into one another\" according to \"Philadelphia Weekly\".\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the films received approval ratings of 91%, 95%, and 93% respectively. Metacritic, based on its ratings for each film (92, 87, and 94 respectively), features the series within the top ten of the best films of the decade. As of July 2016, every film is placed in the top 200 of Metacritic's 'Best Movies of all Time' list. In CinemaScore polls conducted during the opening weekend, cinema audiences gave the films an average grade of A-, A, and A+ respectively on an A+ to F scale.\n\nThe series appears in the , \"Time\" magazine's All-Time 100 Movies, and James Berardinelli's Top 100. In 2007, \"USA Today\" named the series as the most important films of the past 25 years. \"Entertainment Weekly\" put it on its end-of-the-decade, \"best-of\" list, saying, \"Bringing a cherished book to the big screen? No sweat. Peter Jackson's trilogy — or, as we like to call it, our preciousssss — exerted its irresistible pull, on advanced Elvish speakers and neophytes alike.\" \"Paste Magazine\" named it one of the 50 Best Movies of the Decade (2000–2009), ranking it at 4.\nIn another \"Time\" magazine list, the series ranks second in \"Best Movies of the Decade\".\n\"Empire\" magazine voted the films at #1 on the '32 Greatest Film Trilogies'. In addition, six characters and their respective actors made the list of 'The 100 Greatest Movie Characters', also compiled by \"Empire\", with Viggo Mortensen's portrayal of Aragorn ranking No. 15, Ian McKellen's portrayal of Gandalf ranking No. 30, Ian Holm's portrayal of Bilbo Baggins (shared with Martin Freeman for his portrayal of the same character in \"The Hobbit\" films) ranking No. 61, Andy Serkis' portrayal of Gollum ranking No. 66, Sean Astin's portrayal of Samwise Gamgee ranking No. 77, and Orlando Bloom's portrayal of Legolas ranking No. 94.\n\nThe three films together were nominated for a total of 30 Academy Awards, of which they won 17, a record for any movie trilogy (the three nominations for \"\" and \"\" along with the single nomination for \"\" brings the series' total to 37 nominations). \"The Fellowship of the Ring\" earned thirteen nominations, the most of any film at the 74th Academy Awards, winning four. \"The Return of the King\" won in every category in which it was nominated, setting the current Oscar record for the highest clean sweep, and its 11 Academy Awards wins ties the record held by \"Ben-Hur\" and \"Titanic\" (though both of those films had additional nominations that they ultimately lost). \"The Return of the King\" became only the second sequel to win the Oscar for Best Picture (after \"The Godfather Part II\") and the first fantasy film to receive this honor, though this has been widely perceived as an award by proxy for the entire series (the first two films were also nominated for Best Picture). No actors in any of the three films won Oscars, and Ian McKellen was the only actor in the trilogy to receive a nomination, for his work in \"The Fellowship of the Ring\".\n\nAs well as Academy Awards, each film in the series won the Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, the MTV Movie Award for Best Movie, and the Saturn Award for Best Fantasy Film. The first and third films also won the BAFTA Award for Best Film. The soundtrack for \"The Two Towers\" did not receive a nomination because of a rule prohibiting a soundtrack including music from a previous soundtrack to be eligible for nomination. This rule was changed in time for \"The Return of the King\" to receive the Oscar for Best Music Score. The New York Film Critics Circle awarded \"The Return of the King\" its Best Picture Award at the 2003 Awards Ceremony, hosted by Andrew Johnston, chair of the organization at that time, who called it \"a masterful piece of filmmaking.\"\n\nThe film series provoked both positive and negative reaction from fans and scholars of the novels, and was sometimes seen as changing parts Tolkien felt thematically necessary in terms of characters, themes, events and subtlety. Some fans of the book who disagreed with such changes have released fan edits of the films such as \"The Lord of the Rings: The Purist Edition\", which removed many of the changes to bring them closer to the original.\n\nVarious changes to characters such as Gandalf, Aragorn, Arwen, Denethor, Faramir, Gimli, and Frodo, when considered together, were seen by some to alter the tone and themes found in the books. Several critics contend that the portrayal of women, especially Arwen, in the films is thematically faithful to (or compatible with) Tolkien's writings despite some differences.\nWayne G. Hammond, a Tolkien scholar, said of the first two films that he found them to be \"travesties as adaptations... faithful only on a basic level of plot\" and that many characters had not been depicted faithfully to their appearance in the novel. Other critics have argued that Tolkien's characters were weakened and misinterpreted by their portrayal in the films.\n\nChanges to events (such as the Elves participating at the Battle of Helm's Deep, Faramir taking the hobbits to Osgiliath, and the deletion of the chapter \"The Scouring of the Shire\") are also seen as changing Tolkien's themes.\n\nJanet Brennan Croft criticized the films using Tolkien's own terms \"anticipation\" and \"flattening\", which she used in critiquing a proposed film script. She contrasts Tolkien's subtlety with Jackson's tendency to show \"too much too soon\".\n\nSupporters of the series assert that it is a worthy interpretation of the book and that most of the changes were necessary. Many who worked on the series are fans of the book, including Christopher Lee, who (alone among the cast) had actually met Tolkien in person, and Boyens once noted that no matter what, it is simply their interpretation of the book. Jackson once said that to simply summarize the story on screen would be a mess, and in his own words, \"Sure, it's not really \"The Lord of the Rings\"... but it could still be a pretty damn cool movie.\" Other fans also claim that, despite any changes, the films serve as a tribute to the book, appealing to those who have not yet read it, and even leading some to do so. The Movie Guide for The Encyclopedia of Arda (an online Tolkien encyclopedia) states that Jackson's films were exceptional since filming the whole story of \"The Lord of the Rings\" was probably impossible. This notion is partially supported by a review published in 2005 that otherwise criticized a lack of \"faithfulness to Tolkien's spirit and tone.\"\nDouglas Kellner argues that the conservative community spirit of Tolkien's Shire is reflected in Jackson's films as well as the division of the Fellowship into \"squabbling races\". In a 2006 review, film theorist Kristin Thompson was critical about the fact that film studies were undertaken by literary researchers and about the frequent denigration of Jackson's work in the collected essays.\n\nThe release of the films saw a surge of interest in \"The Lord of the Rings\" and Tolkien's other works, vastly increasing his impact on popular culture. The success of the films spawned numerous video games and many other kinds of merchandise.\n\nIt was rumored that the Tolkien family became split on the series, with Christopher Tolkien and his son Simon Tolkien feuding over whether or not it was a good idea to adapt. Christopher has since denied these claims, saying, \"My own position is that \"The Lord of the Rings\" is peculiarly unsuitable to transformation into visual dramatic form. The suggestions that have been made that I 'disapprove' of the films, even to the extent of thinking ill of those with whom I may differ, are wholly without foundation.\" He added that he had never \"expressed any such feeling\". In 2012, however, he described the films as having \"eviscerated\" the book, and criticized the resulting \"commercialisation\" of his father's work.\n\nAs a result of the series' success, Peter Jackson has become a major player in the film business (sometimes called a mogul) in the mold of Steven Spielberg and George Lucas, in the process befriending some industry heavyweights like Bryan Singer and Frank Darabont. Jackson has since founded his own film production company, Wingnut Films, as well as Wingnut Interactive, a video game company. He was also finally given a chance to remake \"King Kong\" in 2005. The film was a critical and box office success, although not as successful as \"The Lord of the Rings\" series. Jackson has been called a \"favourite son\" of New Zealand. In 2004, Howard Shore toured with \"The Lord of the Rings Symphony\", playing two hours of the score. Along with the \"Harry Potter\" films, the series has renewed interest in the fantasy film genre. Tourism for New Zealand is up, possibly due to its exposure in the series, with the country's tourism industry waking up to an audience's familiarity.\n\nIn December 2002, opened at the Te Papa museum in Wellington, New Zealand. As of 2007, the exhibition has traveled to seven other cities around the world. A musical adaptation of the book was launched in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, in 2006, but it closed after mostly poor reviews. A shortened version opened in London, United Kingdom, in the summer of 2007. \n\nThe legacy of \"The Lord of the Rings\" is also that of court cases over profits from the trilogy. Sixteen cast members (, Jed Brophy, Mark Ferguson, Ray Henwood, Bruce Hopkins, William Johnson, Nathaniel Lees, Sarah McLeod, Ian Mune, Paul Norell, Craig Parker, Robert Pollock, Martyn Sanderson, Peter Tait and ) sued over the lack of revenue from merchandise bearing their appearance. The case was resolved out of court in 2008. The settlement came too late for Appleby, who died of cancer in 2007. Saul Zaentz also filed a lawsuit in 2004 claiming he had not been paid all of his royalties. \n\nThe next year, Jackson himself sued the studio over profits from the first film, slowing development of the \"Hobbit\" prequels until late 2007. The Tolkien Trust filed a lawsuit in February 2008, for violating Tolkien's original deal over the rights that they would earn 7.5% of the gross from any films based on his works. The Trust sought compensation of $150 million. A judge denied them this option, but allowed them to win compensation from the act of the studio ignoring the contract itself. On 8 September 2009, the dispute was settled.\n\nThe success of the \"Lord of the Rings\" trilogy led to Jackson directing a trilogy of prequels based on Tolkien's children's book \"The Hobbit\". The films, which were released between 2012 and 2014, used much of the cast and crew of \"The Lord of the Rings\", including Ian McKellen, Andy Serkis, Hugo Weaving, Elijah Wood, Ian Holm (as older Bilbo), Christopher Lee, Cate Blanchett and Orlando Bloom who reprised their roles. Although the \"Hobbit\" films were even more commercially successful than \"The Lord of the Rings\", they received mixed reviews from critics.\n\nNumerous video games were released to supplement the film series. They include: \",\" Pinball, \"\", \"\", , \"\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"The Lord of the Rings Online\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"Lego The Lord of the Rings\", \"Guardians of Middle-earth\", \"Lego The Hobbit (video game)\", \"\", and \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30640885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30640885", "title": "Tiger parenting", "text": "Tiger parenting\n\nTiger parenting (老虎妈妈, \"tiger mother\" or \"tiger mom\") is strict or demanding parenting. Tiger parents push and pressure their children to attaining high levels of scholastic and academic achievement, using authoritarian parenting methods. The term was coined by Yale law professor Amy Chua in her 2011 memoir \"Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother\". A largely Chinese-American concept, the term draws parallels to strict parenting styles typically enforced throughout households in East Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia. Since the rise of Amy Chua's memoir and the tiger mom phenomenon into the American mainstream during the early 2010s, the tiger mom has since then been a caricatured figure in modern Chinese society as well as in Overseas Chinese communities around the world. Chua's rise to fame quickly popularized the concept and term \"tiger mother\" spawning numerous caricatures while also becoming the inspiration for the 2014-2015 Singaporean TV show \"Tiger Mum\", the 2015 mainland Chinese drama \"Tiger Mom\", and the 2017 Hong Kong series \"Tiger Mom Blues\". The stereotyped figure often portrays a Chinese mother who relentlessly drives her child to study hard, to the detriment of the child's social and physical development, and emotional well being. \n\nThe tiger mom is analogous to other parenting stereotypes such as the American stage mother who forces her child to achieve career success in Hollywood, the stereotypical Japanese kyōiku mama who takes an enormous amount of effort in directing much of her maternal influence towards development of their children's educational and intellectual achievement, or the Jewish mother's drive for her children to succeed academically and professionally, resulting in a push for perfection and a continual dissatisfaction with anything less or the critical, self-sacrificing mother who coerces her child into medical school or law school.\n\nThe origin of the tiger mom concept, term, and neologism traces its roots in ancient Confucian teachings articulated through classical anthologies such as the \"Analects of Confucius\" written more than two millennia ago. The concept has been heavily influenced by Confucianism, an ancient Chinese philosophy developed by the philosopher Confucius in the 5th century BC that promoted values such as respect for one’s elders and authority, harmonious relations, bringing honor rather than shame to the family, hard work, enduring hardship, keeping one's place in society, honesty, and dedicating oneself towards academic excellence through the pursuit of knowledge. As Chinese and East Asian society is permeated by values reflecting the teachings of the ancient Chinese scholar, Confucianism remains still very much a core part of everyday life in Mainland China and the rest of East Asia.\n\nMany contemporary Chinese families strive to inculcate the value and importance of an education in their child at a young age. Higher education is an overwhelmingly serious issue in Chinese society, where it is viewed as one of the fundamental cornerstones of Chinese culture and life. Education is regarded with a high priority for Chinese families as success in education holds a cultural status as well as a necessity to improve one's socioeconomic position in Chinese society. These values are embedded deeply in Chinese culture, parent-child relations and parents' expectations for their children. For the Chinese, the importance of education was considered a crucial means for channeling one's upward social mobility in ancient and medieval Chinese societies. In contemporary Mainland China, national examinations such as the \"Gaokao\" remain the primary path for channeling one's upward social mobility.\n\nWhile \"tiger mother\" is a generic term for the tiger parenting phenomenon, representing a concept that was not commonly known until the publication of Chua's book, the broader phrase \"tiger parenting\" also acknowledges the fact that fathers or other parent-figures can also instigate, participate in, or be accomplices to the behavior. Western parenting tries to respect and nurture children’s individualism while Chinese parents believe that arming children with in demand job skills such mathematical and scientific proficiency, strong work habits, and inner confidence prepares them best for the future.\n\nParents who set up rules that overstep conventional parental boundaries are regarded as either tiger mothers or (less commonly) tiger fathers. Tiger parents prioritize schoolwork above all else and only allow children to participate in activities in order to potentially win awards which they believe will increase the chance of the child's acceptance to the elite universities. It is said that \"Asian American parents provide a constant wind beneath their children's wings\"; meaning tiger parents constantly propel their children towards their commitment towards excellence. In a similar way, Chinese tiger parents pay more attention to students core academic subjects such as math, science, and language arts and ignore other non-academic activities such as art and sports in order to ensure their children's superior performance in their core academic subjects.\n\nTiger parents emphasize a commitment towards excellence in academia and award-winning non-academic achievements such as performing classical music instruments. Some also choose to incorporate competitive sports for their children. This unusually high level of expectations may stem from parental love and care, as well as a strong desire to pave the way for their children’s future success, as playing an instrument or being proficient in a competitive sport often serve as a cosmetic addition of extracurricular activities that may look good on college applications. Many Chinese tiger parenting families have a huge emphasis on academic achievement. Extrinsic rewards play a role in the Confucian cultural value system Chinese parents communicate and inculcate in their children at a young age. The strong emphasis on high academic achievement is often seen as a source of stress for Western parents while Chinese parents see the stress of academic achievement on their children as a sign of good parenting reinforced by the entire Confucian cultural value system.\n\nTiger parents try to reinforce higher levels of psychological and behavioral control over their children than other parents. Tempering a child's self-esteem may be part of this strategy. Psychological control comes in many forms but it rooted when parents work to constrain children’s autonomy through psychologically manipulative tactics such as the withdrawal of love or induction of guilt. While behavioral control is focused on setting limits on children's activities, often referring to academics and limiting behavioral problems.\n\nIn Chua's memoir, \"Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother\", she mentions an incident that she yelled at her daughters, calling them ‘garbage’ in public. It has been shown that tiger parents are less likely than other parents to compliment their children in public as well. Children raised by tiger parents may be met with emotional threats and low-impact physical punishments if they failed to practice their piano scales and meet their expectations. Moreover, some tiger parents do not allow their children to make some decisions on their own, whether in academia or daily life. For instance, Chua's daughters were not allowed to watch TV at night or have sleepovers with their schoolmates.\n\nChua cites her parents' newfound immigration experience in the United States and intense struggle to set their roots in a foreign land as the reason inevitably prompting them to adopt a more utilitarian approach towards raising their children. In her memoir, Chua brings up Confucius to elucidate why Chinese parents feel that their children are indebted to them due to all the sacrifices the previous parental generation made to secure a better life for their children. Tiger parents enforce high expectations and may harbor snobbish and inflated views regarding their children’s academic performance. In some cases these expectations may be held unrealistically high regardless of the child's ability or passion for studying. Tiger parents may exhibit harsh and unrealistic expectations for the child's academic performance where \"B\" and even mid to low end \"A\" grades are not tolerated. Tiger parents put a heavy emphasis on the pursuit of academic success at the expense of other character traits that are just as crucial for future career success such as soft skills, social skills, dealing with people, and emotional intelligence. Tiger parents eschew the lax parenting style typically exhibited by many liberal Western parents but also disregard other soft skills that are just are as crucial for their children's future career prospects and the lack of such skills may put them at a disadvantage when competing for job positions. Tiger parents may impose choices on their children as to which interests they choose to pursue. Critics of the tiger parenting argue that this approach will restrict their children's ability to discover their individual talents and passions thus denying the child a sense of belonging, self-esteem, and purpose. On the other hand, proponents for tiger parenting argue that their parenting strategy imbues children with self-control, self-regulation and self-discipline and won't produce excellent academic results if they let their child to drift freely to develop their own interests. Chinese Confucian philosophy has traditionally emphasized self-improvement. As a result, tiger parents often make sure that their children work conscientiously on their schoolwork to help secure better grades and an overall superior academic performance. \n\nEast Asian countries often adopt a strict exam-oriented approach in teaching, which encourages rote memorization. Some argue that this approach encourages uniformity while eschewing creativity, questioning, student participation, self-determination, autonomy, diversity and critical or independent thinking. Tiger parents often put children in tutorial classes as early as the preschool stage. Typically, throughout the child's academic career, the mothers attempts to help the child obtain outstanding results in exams to secure a seat in prestigious schools, with the end goal of entering a top-notch university in mind.\n\nIn East Asian societies, a higher education level is perceived as a guarantee of promising career prospects; and as a tool to climb up the socioeconomic ladder or to lift a family out of poverty. In the classical Chinese anthologies \"Analects of Confucius\" by the ancient Chinese philosopher Confucius in the 5th century BC, education is a central theme in the book with philosophical ideas and sayings that placed great value on work ethic and the pursuit of knowledge. The Confucian ideal argued that education is a passport to higher socioeconomic status and wealth. In ancient and medieval East Asian societies, Scholar-officials had a high social status and intellectuals were held in high esteem, well above than that of wealthy landowners, businessmen, and merchants. Thus, tiger parents pin high hope on their children, taking much pride in their children's academic achievements and may flaunt them to other parents when comparing their own children with the academic achievements of others. Chinese immigrant parents in the West argue that \"high academic achievement\" reflects \"successful parenting\" while parents who have children that bring home inferior academic records are seen as irresponsible parents who are not doing their job. One historical explanation for the strict examination approach stems from the Imperial examination system of China for civil service government positions. Success in the civil examination administered by the royal court was seen as a sure conduit improve a family’s socioeconomic position. Since such positions were scarce with many applicants applying for few opening positions, competition was fierce and these positions were highly coveted, as only a select few could succeed and attain them. Tiger parents recognize how crucial self-discipline is in gaining success, so they may try to instill the value of an exam oriented education into their children as early as possible.\n\nTiger parents perceive a narrow definition of success that is rooted solely in a high level of academic and intellectual achievement. \nAs academic success is often a source of pride for families and within Chinese and East Asian society at large, tiger parents typically view \"success\" as graduating from a top university such as Harvard, or other Ivy League institutions as the ultimate marker of prestige, granting high socioeconomic status, promising marriage prospects, and a highly respectable lucrative white collar career path such as becoming a high end neurosurgeon for Mayo Clinic, a high powered lawyer at a top law Wall Street law firm, a software engineer in Silicon Valley, a management consultant for Boston Consulting Group, or as an investment banker working for Goldman Sachs. Tiger mothers also incorporate classical music training or extracurricular enrichment activities such as joining a sports team, including those with competitive structures and awards systems to bolster their child's university entrance application. This kind of early life training illustrates the tiger parent's zeal for education and the desire for their children to get into a prestigious university as tiger parents see the entrance into a top tier higher educational institution as a ticket that leads to a prestigious, rewarding, and lucrative white collar career filled with socioeconomic success. Tiger parents may look down on careers beneath their expectations - that is a truck driver may be viewed as less socially respectable than a neurosurgeon.\n\nDuring the past 30 years the Asian American population has increased due to increased immigration to the United States. Today, Asian Americans have recently surpassed Hispanics as the largest immigrant group in the United States. Immigration comes with may consequences, many positive and many negative, when it comes to economics, political, and psycho-social changes through intercultural contact in new host countries.\n\nIt is important to understand that Asian Americans trace their roots to dozens of regions and countries across the Asian continent. Although this article predominantly focuses on tiger parenting as a Chinese-American phenomenon it can be found across Asian culture by trends found in Asian immigration.\n\nAcculturation \\ə-ˌkəl-chə-ˈrā-shən can be defined as is an adaptive process which occurs both on an individual and group level when intercultural exchange happens. According to Barry's model of acculturation there are four key strategies including (1) assimilation - the acceptation of the host countries dominant culture, (2) separation - the acceptation of one's native culture, (3) integration - adopting both the host countries and native countries cultures, and (4) marginalization - the rejection of both cultures. In relation to tiger parenting acculturation is a key predictor of the mother's expectations of their children.\n\nValues /ˈvalyo͞os/, in a sociological sense, are a culture's standards for discerning what is considered good, bad, beautiful and ugly, and sought after and avoided. These are deeply embedded into the foundation of culture and society suggesting how people should behave, although there may be some deviation.\n\nAsian Americans are distinctive in that their values are represented as a whole when compared with other U.S. adults. Asian Americans on average exceed with having a high rate of college completion, traditionally seen as a predecessor of financial and career success. They have a strong emphasis for family and successful marriages, where being a good parent is one of the most important aspects of life. They are most likely to have multi generational households with at least two generations living together. And, have a strong belief in the rewards of hard work. Altogether these values and beliefs work together to formulate the phenomena of the tiger parent in Asian cultures. \n\nAdvocates suggest a strict approach to parenting produces an exceptionally high proportion of top performers – children who display academic excellence across the board with great musical ability and professional success later in life. In a three-part series on competition in Hong Kong's education system by the \"South China Morning Post\", many Hong Kong parents revealed that cultural fears over economic hardship motivated them to begin thinking of their children's futures as professionals soon after birth, striving to find the best playgroups, and encouraging competition among children in academia, sports and music, in the belief that this fosters competitiveness and increases their children's chances of entering into a better pre-nursery school and elite kindergarten, and determine their eventual success at primary schools, secondary schools and universities. However, many other Hong Kong parents, psychologists and educators assert that pushing children too hard does not work, and can even harm children. There is a growing trend of children aged five to 12 seeking psychiatric help and even contemplating suicide. In reaction, some parents have relaxed their formerly strict discipline with their children, and some schools have made their admissions requirements less strenuous.\n\nAccording to some sources, children raised under a strict, controlling, and punitive tiger mother will suffer a chronic social and psychological toll. This included some young Asians as well as children from immigrant families of Asian ancestry who live in other parts of the world outside Asia. Children raised with a less supportive type of parenting have developed chronic mental health and psychiatric problems such as anxiety, low self-esteem, depression, and contemplation of suicide. These mental health and psychiatric problems may create psychological problems that make these children feel like \"failures\". When parents do not provide coping strategies to their children and guide alongside to manage negative feelings, such loneliness may transition into depression and suicide.\n\nTiger parenting has been blamed for high rates of suicide in East Asia, particularly South Korea, which has some of the highest suicide rates in the developed world. In South Korea, stress from constant study and limited social life pressured by harsh and demanding parents on a student may be taking a psychological and social toll on younger generations, causing an increase in aggression, mental health problems, impaired cognitive development, and drug and alcohol abuse. Other adverse effects, such as depression, anxiety, antisocial behavior, and increased risk of physical abuse, have also been linked to the increasing amount of academic pressure placed on young South Koreans. \n\nTiger parents' belief in the importance of academics for their children is considered by many to constitute child abuse, but is seen as acceptable by many Asian parents. Many have described their traditions as including physical and emotional closeness that ensures a lifelong bond between parent and child, as well as establishing parental authority and child obedience through discipline.\n\nBalancing disciplinary responsibilities through violence within parenting is common in many Asian cultures, including China, Pakistan, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam. To some cultures, violent parenting may be seen as abuse, but in other societies such as these, the use of violence is looked at as a reflection of parental devotion. Severe forms of violence may include spanking or slapping the child with an open hand or striking with an available household implement such as a belt, slipper, cane, clothes hanger, meterstick, hairbrush, paddle or bamboo feather duster.\n\nAccording to the sources cited by the website Parenting Science, children from authoritarian families may find it more difficult to fend for themselves and make friends, but whether or not most families with a tiger parent could be considered authoritarian is a matter of debate. Studies published by the \"Handbook of Child Psychology\" have shown that children under tiger parenting were rated as less helpful and less popular by their teachers and classmates. Also, they are more likely to show aggressive behavior towards others when they are forced to learn without recess. They were rated as less self-reliant and are not able to be independent thinkers since their life is organized by their parents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57543194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57543194", "title": "Timeline of Kiss", "text": "Timeline of Kiss\n\nA timeline of notable events relating to Kiss, a British commercial radio station operated by Bauer Radio.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12641900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12641900", "title": "United States Army Special Forces in popular culture", "text": "United States Army Special Forces in popular culture\n\nMembers of the U.S. Army Special Forces will emphatically assert that the \"Green Beret\" is a hat and not the man who wears it. Nevertheless, for a time in the 1960s the Green Berets and the men who wore them became a national fad emerging in a wide variety of popular culture referents. After a decline in popularity during the 1970s — coinciding with the American public's backlash against the Vietnam War — the Green Berets gripped the popular imagination again beginning with the Rambo film franchise in 1982. They continue to appear as both major and minor referents in popular culture — especially in movies and television — often serving as a shorthand signifier for a shady or covert military background for a fictional character. As a dramatic device, this can cut both ways — i.e., lead an audience to either admire or fear (or both) a character.\n\nAlthough the U.S. Army Special Forces were created with a low profile in 1952, and the green beret was not officially authorized, things changed dramatically with President John F. Kennedy. He wanted to challenge Communist influence and wars of liberation in the recently decolonized Third World, and bolster pro-American regimes with the U.S. Army's own special forces and counter-guerrilla fighters.\n\nOn 12 October 1961, Kennedy visited the U.S. Special Warfare Center, where his aide, Major General Chester V. Clifton (and friend of the SWC Commander, BG William P. Yarborough) informed Yarborough that the President was keen on the Special Forces — but would not visit the SF base unless they were wearing their green berets. The Army, having previously forbidden the green beret, allowed the soldiers to wear them, lest JFK not visit. The Special Forces displayed their capabilities, impressing the President; so often, in the next years, that they referred to it as \"Disneyland.\" President Kennedy's visit was topped with a Bell Aircraft pilot (dressed in Army fatigues) flying with a rocket belt to the President, and saluting him.\n\nKennedy approved of the Green Beret, and the U.S. Army authorised it. In 1962, he called the green beret, \"a symbol of excellence, a badge of courage, a mark of distinction in the fight for freedom.\" Special Forces soldiers in berets and dress Greens were President Kennedy's cortege in 1963. An SF beret was photographed atop his grave at Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nThe 1st Special Forces Group on Okinawa provided a number of troopers to act as extras in director Samuel Fuller's \"Merrill's Marauders\" (1961) and were credited at film's start. On U.S. television, a March 1962 episode of \"Surfside 6\" titled \"The Green Beret\" featured SF training. Henry Fonda appeared in, and narrated, a 1962 \"Special Forces\" episode of \"The Big Picture\" series of U.S. Army-produced films that found their way to U.S. television. In 1963, a Green Beret appeared in the episode \"In Praise of Pip\" of \"The Twilight Zone\" though the U.S. Army told the CBS television network to not name the Southeast Asian country where the story occurred. The Green Beret's first Hollywood appearance is in the futuristic thriller film \"Seven Days in May\" (1963) wherein Andrew Duggan is a Special Forces officer loyal to the U.S. President, not the traitorous JCS Chief Burt Lancaster; the film also gave the U.S. filmgoer a first glimpse of the M16 rifle.\n\nMattel toys made \"Guerrilla Fighter\" playsets in 1962 containing a commando green beret with an interesting tin \"Guerrilla Fighter\" badge depicting the crossed arrows insignia of the Special Forces, (formerly worn by the 1st Special Service Force, and before that the U.S. Army Indian Scouts) and a jungle knife in front of a parachute. The set also contained the Mattel Dick Tracy automatic cap firing \"tommy gun\" or \"Scattergun\" (the Dick Tracy cap firing but no longer water firing riot shotgun) toy guns, both now in military camouflage plastic, a military camouflaged poncho, and in some sets, a rubber Ka-Bar knife and a tripwire booby trap. Mattel later made the \"M-16 Marauder\", in 1966, which appeared in \"The Green Berets\" film wherein an enraged John Wayne smashes one against a tree.\n\nThe public was fascinated with this new type of soldier of the New Frontier, and the Army reluctantly gave journalists' access to many of Special Forces often top secret missions. One writer was Robin Moore, who used his connections with Harvard University classmate Robert F. Kennedy to write a book about the Special Forces. The U.S. Army agreed on the condition that Moore (then 38 years old) complete the Basic Airborne Course and SF training before being allowed to visit the Special Forces in South Vietnam.\n\nRobin Moore successfully completed the courses and was allowed to live with the soldiers in Special Forces and their South Vietnamese, Montagnard, and Nung allies. His book, \"The Green Berets\", was published in 1965, but, because he mentions the American presence in North Vietnam and Cambodia, he published \"The Green Berets\" as a novel. The U.S. Army was upset by the book; the reading public was not and it became a best selling book, especially its paperback edition in 1966.\n\nAt the time of Moore's book and the increasing U.S. Military involvement in the Vietnam War, Special Forces Staff Sergeant Barry Sadler wrote a song with Robin Moore and recorded it under the title the \"Ballad of the Green Berets,\" which became the number-one single of 1966 in the U.S. In addition to the single, Sadler released an album \"Ballads of the Green Berets\" with Sadler's photograph of him in a green beret appearing on the single, the LP, and on the paperback cover of Moore's \"The Green Berets\". SSgt. Sadler later recorded an additional, but lesser, song \"The A-Team\" and released two more long-playing albums, then wrote his autobiography, \"I'm A Lucky One\".\n\n\"Ballad of the Green Berets\" had many cover versions ranging from Ennio Morricone and Duane Eddy to \"drugstore records\" on labels such as Diplomat and Wyncote records. Hanna-Barbera Records released a children's LP \"The Story of the Green Beret\" available to members of the G.I. Joe club. The album was a tie-in with the release of the G.I. Joe Green Beret \"action figure\" (doll) that had appeared in 1966. The record had an album cover of Special Forces in action and a picture of the Medal of Honor. The record started off with a cover version of \"Ballad of the Green Berets\" but was a spoken account with sound effects of Colonel Pat Lawrence (Mike Road) taking two small boys (Andy and George) to visit Fort Bragg, North Carolina, to learn about the training and capabilities of \"The Green Berets\". The album then featured an exciting account of the Battle of Nam Dong where Captain Roger Donlon received the first Medal of Honor in the Vietnam War.\n\nA less successful song was Nancy Ames' \"He Wore The Green Beret\" with a flip side of \"War is a Card Game\". Dickie Goodman pitted the two fads of 1966 against each other in \"Batman & His Grandmother\" where the Caped Crusader went up against the Green Beret.\n\nRobin Moore also wrote a 1965 \"Tales of the Green Beret\" newspaper comic strip with artwork by Sgt. Rock (comics) Joe Kubert that was also published in paperback. It later became a Dell Publishing American comic book in 1967 replacing their earlier \"Jungle War Stories\" and \"Guerrilla War\" comics. When DC Comics's Larry Rock (brother of the Sergeant), the replacement in \"Our Fighting Forces\" for the Marines Gunner and Sarge and their dog Pooch proved unpopular, DC replaced him with a Green Beret named Captain Hunter in 1966. Captain Hunter's adventures featured him hunting for his twin brother, a pilot shot down and captured by the Viet Cong. Other war comics put in their own Green Beret characters, such as Lightning Comics' \"Todd Holton-Super Green Beret\" (1967).\n\nChildren could also enjoy Philadelphia Gum \"Men of the Green Beret\" trading cards of photographs of the Special Forces in action with a stick of bubble gum. The artwork on the box was by artist Norm Saunders of \"Mars Attacks\" fame. Aurora Models came out with a model of a Green Beret soldier.\n\nWith all the interest in the men of the Green Berets, a film version seemed a long time in coming. Columbia Pictures had bought the film rights to Robin Moore's book before publication, using the title, \"The Green Berets\", for a screenplay about the training of an SF Team and their deployment in Southeast Asia, but dropped the idea, because of the U.S. Army's many conditions and the U.S. public's dissatisfaction with the Vietnam War. Producer David L. Wolper then bought the rights to \"The Green Berets\", and dropped the idea for reasons like Columbia Pictures. A screenplay was written by George Goodman who had served with the Special Forces in the 1950s as a military intelligence officer and had written a 1961 article about the Special Forces called \"The Unconventional Warriors\" in Esquire Magazine. Columbia sent Goodman to South Vietnam to research the screenplay. Wolper later produced \"The Devil's Brigade\" (1968) with Utah-based National Guard SF soldiers as extras, wearing attractive, but imaginary red berets.\n\nThus, it fell to John Wayne to buy the rights and ask President Lyndon Johnson's help in obtaining the assistance and cooperation of the Pentagon in filming the book. The Army set strict conditions, forbidding Moore to work on or be associated with the film, though the film trailer has the caption \"TOLD TOUGH - LIKE THE BOOK\". Despite Wayne's box office prestige and public interest in \"The Green Berets\", the film was rejected by Universal Pictures and Paramount Pictures. Wayne's preferred film composer, Elmer Bernstein, refused to write the score. Wayne used his Batjac Productions money to make the film, which Warner Bros. profitably released to some public protest.\n\nJohn Wayne's version of Robin Moore's \"The Green Berets\" begins with a choral version of the \"Ballad of the Green Berets\" heard behind Wayne Fitzgerald's titles that segue to an SF A-Team putting on a \"Disneyland\" show for journalists, including skeptical David Janssen. From SF Colonel John Wayne, reporter Janssen wangles a trip to the Vietnam War, and, eventually, participates in a large-scale battle, based on the Battle of Nam Dong. In the end, Janssen tells Wayne \"If I write what I feel, I'll be out of a job\". Wayne tells Janssen he'll always have one with them.\n\nThe last third of the film is Green Beret expertise in a commando mission to abduct a North Vietnamese General who has been seduced by the sister-in-law of an ARVN Special Forces Colonel (played by Jack Soo). The climax is a superb demonstration of combatives by former-Tarzan Mike Henry killing a horde of Viet Cong who attack him, even impaling one on a low tree branch. The martial arts inspired many film producers.\n\nTom Laughlin made a highly profitable American International Pictures film called \"The Born Losers\" (1967) featuring Billy Jack, a half-American Indian former Green Beret Vietnam War veteran using his martial arts on a motorcycle gang. The 1971 American International Pictures film \"Chrome and Hot Leather\" features SF men Tony Young, Peter Brown, and Marvin Gaye using their training and Vietnam War experience to avenge the murder of Young's girlfriend by William Smith's motorcycle gang. The film's poster shows a uniformed Green Beret using a biker as a sub-human punching bag with the tagline: \"DON'T MUCK AROUND WITH A GREEN BERET'S MAMA! HE'LL TAKE HIS CHOPPER AND RAM IT DOWN YOUR THROAT!\"\n\nAs the public wearied of the Green Berets, so did the American Regular Army. The 1969 \"Green Beret Murder Case\" in which Colonel Robert B. Rheault and several of his men were tried for assassinating a Communist spy was used as a discrediting tactic against the Special Forces. The case also contributed to the plot of the movie \"Apocalypse Now\" in which a Green Beret Colonel accused of the same offence has gone rogue.\n\nIn 1972, author David Morrell published \"First Blood\", a novel that features a former member of the Army Special Forces named John Rambo. The novel focuses on the struggle Rambo faces when he attempts to return to civilian life following the end of his tour of duty in Vietnam, and he eventually turns to violence. In 1982, a film adaptation of the novel was released, starring Sylvester Stallone. The film altered many aspects of the novel, including excising the self-loathing characteristics the protagonist possesses in the novel. The film was a box office success, and spawned a media franchise.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38784809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38784809", "title": "Western media", "text": "Western media\n\nWestern media is the mass media of the Western world. During the Cold War, Western media contrasted with Soviet media. Western media has gradually expanded into developing countries (non-Western countries).\n\nThe roots of the Western media can be traced back to the late 15th century, when printing presses began to operate throughout Western Europe. The emergence of news media in the 17th century has to be seen in close connection with the spread of the printing press, from which the publishing press derives its name.\n\nIn Britain, newspapers developed during a period of political upheaval that challenged the absolute rule of the English Monarchy. In 1641, newspapers were allowed to publish domestic news for the first time. Despite strict controls placed by the political elite on the print media to restrict the expansion of the press, the print industry continued to grow. By the late 18th century, over 10 million newspapers were distributed annually in Britain alone.\n\nBosah Ebo writes that \"During the Cold War, the United States and Soviet Union engaged in an intense media diplomacy aimed to create international image of each other.\" Voice of America and Radio Free Europe were established by the U.S. as counterpoints to the Communist-dominated news media in the Eastern Bloc. Scholar James Schwoch writes, \"Western-inspired television programming and development in Cold War Germany and Europe began as not so much a case of the unfettered free flow of information from West to East, but rather as a strong counterbalance preventing, or discouraging, the Soviet-sourced first flow of the European television landscape.\" \n\nDuring the Cold War, Western media outlets were gradually accepted as a trustworthy and reliable source of news. In former East Germany, surveys showed that over 91% of migrants perceived Western media outlets to be more reliable than East German media outlets. \n\nIn recent years, many Western media outlets have seen their circulation figures stagnate.\n\n\"New Left Review\" editor Tariq Ali asserts that \"the notion of a free press in the Western media in the 20 century evolved as a counterpoint to the monopolistic State-owned model of erstwhile Soviet Union with the aim of showing its superiority by accommodating diversity of voices. In terms of what it published and what it showed, the Western media gained its peak during the Cold War era.\" \n\n\n\nCriticisms of the media coverage leading up to the 2003 invasion of Iraq was been acute. One study examined every evening television news story related to Iraq on ABC, CBS, and NBC. The study found that \"that news coverage conformed in some ways to the conventional wisdom: Bush administration officials were the most frequently quoted sources, the voices of anti-war groups and opposition Democrats were barely audible, and the overall thrust of coverage favored a pro-war perspective.\" However, the study also found that \"it is too facile to conclude that anti-war positions were completely marginalized. In contrast to the common critiques of media coverage, even as elites in the United States were not publicly sparring, journalists turned to foreign officials for the anti-war perspective.\" The network media did commonly report \"opposition from abroad—in particular, from Iraq and officials from countries such as France, who argued for a diplomatic solution to the standoff.\" \n\nMax Abrahms, writing in \"Foreign Affairs\", has criticized Western media's coverage of the Syrian Civil War, arguing that it is overly favorable to the Syrian opposition and fails to take into account extremist elements within the opposition. \n\nCoverage of global human rights increased in the media of the Global North between 1985 and 2000. A regression analysis of human rights reporting by the newsmagazines \"The Economist\" and \"Newsweek\" found that \"these two media sources cover abuses in human rights terms more frequently when they occur in countries with higher levels of state repression, economic development, population, and Amnesty International attention. There is also some evidence that political openness, number of battle-deaths, and civil societies affect coverage, although these effects were not robust.\"\n\nIn 2008, an empirical analysis of the effects of \"naming and shaming\" of governments that are said to perpetrate human rights abuses (by media outlets as well as by governments and nongovernmental organizations) found that \"governments put in the global spotlight for violations often adopt better protections for political rights afterward, but they rarely stop or appear to lessen acts of terror.\" The study also found that \"In a few places, global publicity is followed by more repression in the short term, exacerbating leaders' insecurity and prompting them to use terror, especially when armed opposition groups or elections threaten their monopoly on power.\"\n\nIn the United States, the media is largely privately owned. In other democratic nations of the Western world, particularly in Western Europe, print media outlets such as newspapers are usually privately owned, but public broadcasting is dominant in the broadcast media (radio and television). Historically, the United States was the only developed nation that \"created a broadcasting system that was advertiser-supported virtually from the start.\" The contrasting Western European model sees public media as \"a representation of the national culture.\"\n\nReporters Without Borders's Press Freedom Index scored the following countries the highest in 2018: Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Switzerland, Jamaica, Belgium, New Zealand, Denmark, and Costa Rica. UNESCO reported in 2014 that \"the freedom to publish in the 27 countries of the Western Europe and North America region has remained strong and widely upheld.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, some scholars in communications studies, such as Oliver Boyd-Barrett, Jeremy Tunstall and Elihu Katz, advanced a \"media imperialism\" perspective. This theory posits that there is an \"iniquitous flow of cultural production from the First to the Third World ... whereby the media of advanced capitalist economies were able to substantially influence, if not actually determine, the nature of cultural production and consumption within Third World countries,\" leading to cultural hegemonization in favor of individualism and consumerism. Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore, Hindu nationalists in India, and the Chinese authorities have all pressed for restrictions on Western media in their respective nations, viewing it as a possible threat to Asian values. Other scholars, such as Fred Fejes, Daniël Biltereyst and Hamid Naficy, have criticized the \"media imperialism\" theory, arguing that it arguing that it unjustifiably relies on a \"hypodermic needle model\" of media effects, overstates the influences of media on the audience's behavior and views, and romanticizes \"national culture\" unduly.\n\nFollowing the Chinese 2014 Kunming attack, in which Uyghur Muslim Xinjiang secessionists killed 31 people, Chinese state media and Chinese social media users criticized major Western media outlets that placed quotation marks around the word \"terrorism\" in news articles about the event. While some Chinese Internet users interpreted the quotation marks as attribution to the statements of the Chinese government, others accused the Western media of sympathizing with the separatists. China accused \"Western commentators, with their focus on Uighur rights, of hypocrisy and double standards on terrorism.\"\n\nRussian media and government often claims that Western media is biased against Russia. Human Rights Watch wrote in 2018 that the Russian Foreign Ministry has promoted conspiracy theories about \"the Western media\" and denounced critical news coverage. In 2005, Russia established Russia Today (later RT); Julia Ioffe, writing in the \"Columbia Journalism Review\", writes that RT was established as a soft power and propaganda instrument, aimed at countering Western media outlets and promoting Russian foreign policy. In the second half of 2012, between 2.25 and 2.5 million Britons watched RT broadcasting (making it the third-most watched rolling news channel in Britain, behind BBC News and Sky News). An article by Andrei P. Tsygankov on editorials in the \"New York Times\", \"Washington Post\", and \"Wall Street Journal\" related to Russian domestic politics from 2008 to 2014 found that the editorials were overwhelmingly negative of the Russian government, based on such issues as \"elections, opposition and minority rights, the justice system, protection of property rights, freedom of media, development of NGOs and civil society, protection of citizens against crime and terrorism, mechanisms for the transfer of power, attitudes of Putin and Medvedev, and relations with Western nations.\" Tsygankov asserted that the editorials failed to adequately reflect \"neutral and positive frames and such as those stressing the country's relative progress or objective difficulties faced in its development.\" By contrast, James Nixey of the Russia and Eurasia Programme at Chatham House argued that fair reporting does not require false equivalence between Russian and Western actions, and that negative coverage of Russia was understandable given its conduct in Crimea, Georgia, and Syria, and its poor human rights record. Piers Robinson argues that both Russian media and Western media is biased, writing \"mainstream media, wherever it may be based, is widely acknowledged to be overly deferential to political and economic power and that means, as consumers of news.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40474961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40474961", "title": "Women Poets International", "text": "Women Poets International\n\nThe Women Poets International Movement (also known as Movimiento Mujeres Poetas Internacional MPI) is an international non-profit organization operated out of the Dominican Republic. It was first launched in 2009 and focuses on the promotion of female poets and poetry through collective projects, publications and events.\n\nWomen Poets International is a nonprofit foundation started in November 2009 at the Dominican Republic, committed to promoting the work of contemporary female poets internationally through collective projects, and with the social responsibility of sharing messages of respect, self-esteem and nonviolence against women. This foundation holds several events throughout the year, such as the \"Woman Scream International Poetry Festival\" celebrated in march of each year, international poetry contests, and outdoor non-violence campaigns. The organization also lends assistance to various festivals, concerts, and conferences throughout the world.\n\nIn 2009 the organization held their first \"Woman Scream International Poetry Festival\" (\"Festival Internacional de Poesía Grito de Mujer\") in the Dominican Republic. The festival is held over the month of March and focuses on honoring women through multiple events. In 2011 Women Poets International expanded the focus of the event to also promote violence awareness due to the mutilation and murder of Mexican poet Susana Chávez. In 2013 the worldwide event honored Malala Yousafzai.\n\nThe event is held simultaneously in several locations around the globe such as Spain, Canada, USA, Kosovo, and other in Latin America, Asia and Europe. Typical events held include conferences, exhibitions, poetry recitals, competitions, and concerts.\n\n\nThe events created by the MPI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14433622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14433622", "title": "Women in the workforce", "text": "Women in the workforce\n\nWomen in the workforce earning wages or salary are part of a modern phenomenon, one that developed at the same time as the growth of paid employment for men, but women have been challenged by inequality in the workforce. Until modern times, legal and cultural practices, combined with the inertia of longstanding religious and educational conventions, restricted women's entry and participation in the workforce. Economic dependency upon men, and consequently the poor socio-economic status of women, have had the same impact, particularly as occupations have become professionalized over the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nWomen's lack of access to higher education had effectively excluded them from the practice of well-paid and high status occupations. Entry of women into the higher professions like law and medicine was delayed in most countries due to women being denied entry to universities and qualification for degrees; for example, Cambridge University only fully validated degrees for women late in 1947, and even then only after much opposition and acrimonious debate. Women were largely limited to low-paid and poor status occupations for most of the 19th and 20th centuries, or earned less pay than men for doing the same work. However, through the 20th century, public perceptions of paid work shifted as the workforce increasingly moved to office jobs that do not require heavy labor, and women increasingly acquired the higher education that led to better-compensated, longer-term careers rather than lower-skilled, shorter-term jobs.\n\nThe increasing rates of women contributing in the work force has led to a more equal disbursement of hours worked across the regions of the world. However, in western European countries the nature of women's employment participation remains markedly different from that of men.\n\nAlthough access to paying occupations (the \"workforce\") has been and remains unequal in many occupations and places around the world, scholars sometimes distinguish between \"work\" and \"paying work\", including in their analysis a broader spectrum of labor such as uncompensated household work, childcare, eldercare, and family subsistence farming.\n\nAs the Civil War raged in the U.S., Virginia Penny of Louisville, Kentucky was finishing up her research project and publish the ground-breaking book, \"How women can make money married or single, in all branches of the arts and sciences, professions, trades, agricultural and mechanical pursuits\" (Philadelphia, 1862). Hoping to offer hard facts about what women in the workforce would encounter, Penny had interviewed thousands of employers, using both a survey via the postal mail and in person – when she would also interview workers. Much of her site visits were conducted in Philadelphia, New York and Boston. She distilled her research to list over 500 jobs that were open to women as well as the information about the jobs and potential availability for women. She also indicated when employers offered their reasons for wage differentials based on gender. She dedicated her book \"to worthy and industrious women in the United States, striving to earn a livelihood,\" and the book garnered much attention by reviewers and scholars across the country. She sold her rights to the book to another publisher who put it out instead as an encyclopedia, \"The Employments of Women: A Cyclopaedia of Woman's Work\", in 1863. It sold better once it was re-titled again in 1870 as \"How Women Can Make Money, Married or Single\". In total, the several different versions of the book ended up with 36 editions published between 1862 and 2006, and six editions of the adaptation in German (first published in 1867).\n\nIn the twentieth century, division of labor by gender has been studied most systematically in women's studies (especially women's history, which has frequently examined the history and biography of women's participation in particular fields) and gender studies more broadly. Occupational studies, such as the history of medicine or studies of professionalization, also examine questions of gender, and the roles of women in the history of particular fields. Women dominate as accountants, auditors, and psychologists.\n\nIn addition, modern civil rights law has frequently examined gender restrictions of access to a field of occupation; gender discrimination within a field; and gender harassment in particular workplaces. This body of law is called employment discrimination law, and gender and race discrimination are the largest sub-sections within the area. Laws specifically aimed at preventing discrimination against women have been passed in many countries; see, e.g., the Pregnancy Discrimination Act in the United States.\n\nWomen still contribute to their communities in many regions mainly through agricultural work. In Southern Asia, Western Asia, and Africa, only 20% of women work at paid non-agricultural jobs. Worldwide, women's rate of paid employment outside of agriculture grew to 41% by 2008.\n\nOne of the main forms of paid employment for women worldwide is actually a traditional one, that of the market \"hawker\". Women have worked outside the home as vendors at markets since ancient times in many parts of the world, such as Central America, South Asia, and Africa.\n\nDuring the 20th century, the most significant global shift in women's paid employment came from the spread of global travel and the development of a large migrant workforce of women domestic workers seeking jobs outside of their native country. The Philippines is a major source of female domestic workers. Before the 1990s, the majority of Filipinos working outside the Philippines were male, but by 2012, an estimated 63% of Filipinos working overseas were female.\n\nEstimates of Filipino women working overseas are in the millions. Over 138,000 new domestic workers gained permission to work overseas in 2012, a number that grew 12% from the previous year. Overseas employment often results in the women leaving their own children behind in the Philippines to be cared for by relatives. Domestic employees from the Philippines and other countries have also been subject to exploitation and sex and money extreme abuse, for example in several countries in the Middle East, where they are often employed. It is estimated that remittances from overseas workers (both male and female) bring $1 billion (USD) per month to the Philippines.\n\nWomen and men often participate in economic sectors in sharply different proportions, a result of gender clustering in occupations. Reasons for this may include a traditional association of certain types of work with a particular gender. There is a wide range of other possible economic, social and cultural variables that impact the gender distribution in different occupations, including within a region or country. An averaging of statistics gathered by the United Nations for 2004 through 2007 reflects these differences (totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding):\n\nSectoral distribution of employed persons, by sector and sex (2004 through 2007) \nMore detailed statistics show large differences even within these regions. For example, 11% of employed women in East Asia are employed in agriculture, a number that rises to 55% in South Asia; 70% of women in Southern Africa are employed in the service sector, while in Eastern, Middle, and Western Africa this number is 26%.\n\nChoice of occupation is considered to be one of the key factors contributing to the male-female wage differential. In other words, careers with a majority of female employees tend to pay less than careers that employ a majority of males. This is different from direct wage discrimination within occupations, as males in the female dominated professions will also make lower than average wages and the women in the male dominated occupations usually make higher than average wages. The occupational dissimilarity index is a measure from 0 to 100; it measures the percent of laborers that would need to be rearranged into a job typically done by the opposite sex in order for the wage differential to disappear. In 1960, the dissimilarity index for the United States was measured at 62. It has dropped since then, but at 47 in 2000, is still one of the highest of any developed nation.\n\nIn the nineteenth century women became involved in organizations dedicated to social reform. In 1903 The National Women's Trade Union League (WTUL) is established to advocate for improved wages and working conditions for women. In 1920 The Women's Bureau of the Department of Labor was formed to create equal rights and a safe workplace for women. In 1956 a group called Financial Women's Association (FWA), was formed. It is an organization established by a group of Wall Street women. The goal was: to advance professionalism in finance and in the financial services industry with special emphasis on the role and development of women, to attain greater recognition for women's achievements in business, and to encourage women to seek career opportunities in finance and business. In 1966 the National Organization for Women (NOW) was founded by a group of feminists including Betty Friedan. The largest women's rights group in the U.S., NOW seeks to end sexual discrimination, especially in the workplace, by means of legislative lobbying, litigation, and public demonstrations. NOW has 500,000 contributing members and 550 chapters in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Founded in 1972, the National Association of Female Executives (NAFE) provides education, networking and public advocacy to empower its members to achieve career success and financial security. Members are women executives, business owners, entrepreneurs and others who are committed to NAFE's mission: the advancement of women in the workplace. Many of these organizations led to legal action and protecting women's rights as workers and empowered women in the workplace.\n\nInternational laws protecting women's rights as workers exist through the efforts of various international bodies. On June 16, 2011, the International Labour Organization (ILO) passed C189 Domestic Workers Convention, 2011, binding signatories to regulations intended to end abuses of migrant domestic workers. It was anticipated that the Convention would put pressure on non-ratifying countries to support changes to their own laws to meet the change in international standards protecting domestic workers. Also in 2011, Hong Kong's High Court struck down a law preventing domestic workers from having residency rights granted to other foreign workers, a move that affected an estimated 100,000 domestic workers in Hong Kong.\n\nThe ILO has previously ratified the Equal Remuneration Convention in 1951, which came into force in 1953, the Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention, which went into force in 1960 and the Maternity Protection Convention, 2000, which went into force in 2002. In 1966, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which went into force in 1976. UNESCO also adopted the Convention against Discrimination in Education in 1960, which came into force in 1962. The International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly, went into force in 2003. The Home Work Convention, adopted by the ILO, went into force in 2000;the Convention protects the rights of persons doing paid work out of their home, which is frequently women workers. It offers equal protection regarding working conditions, safety, remuneration, social security protection, access to training, minimum age of employment, and maternity protection.\n\nHuman trafficking often targets young women who are abducted and sent outside their own country to work as domestic workers, often in conditions of extreme exploitation. A number of international laws have been ratified to address human trafficking of women and children.\n\nMaternity protection measures are put in place to insure that women will not be discriminated against in the workplace once they return from having a child. They should also not be exposed to any health hazards while they are pregnant and at work. They are allowed time off for maternity leave as well, which allows them to bond with their child; this aspect of development is crucial for infants to gain proper attachment skills. Employers are expected to hold to these policies. Yet many women on maternity leave receive very small amounts of time off to allow for their health along with their babies' health. The amount of time allowed for maternity leave as well as the pay for maternity leave varies by country, with Sweden having the longest amount off with 68 weeks and the United States being one of the worst, with the typical period being 12 weeks without pay.\n\nFemale decision-makers from around Europe are organized in several national and European wide networks. The networks aim to promote women in decision-making positions in politics and the economy across Europe. These networks were founded in the 1980s and are often very different from the \"service clubs\" founded in the early days of the century, like Soroptimist and Zontas.\n\n\"Women in Management\" is about women in business in usually male-dominated areas. Their motivation, their ideas and leadership styles and their ability to enter into leadership positions is the subject of most of the different networks.\n\nAs of 2009, women represented 20.9% of parliament in Europe (both houses) and 18.4% world average.\n\nAs of 2009, 90 women serve in the U.S. Congress: 18 women serve in the Senate, and 73 women serve in the House Women hold about three percent of executive positions.\n\nIn the private sector, men still represent 9 out of 10 board members in European blue-chip companies, The discrepancy is widest at the very top: only 3% of these companies have a woman presiding over the highest decision-making body.\n\nList of members of the European Network of Women in Decision-making in Politics and the Economy:\n\n\nThe European Union Commission has created a platform for all these networks. It also funded the Women to the Top program in 2003–2005 to bring more women into top management.\n\nSome organizations have been created to promote the presence of women in top responsibilities, in politics and business. One example is EWMD European Women's Management Development (cited above), a European and international network of individual and corporate members, drawn from professional organisations. Members are from all areas of business, education, politics and culture.\n\nWomen who are born into the upper class rather than the middle or lower class have a much better chance at holding higher positions of power in the work force if they choose to enter it. According to a study published 2015, of the women who held C-suite jobs in the U.S., 94% played competitive sports, 52% at a university level.\n\nAs gender roles have followed the formation of agricultural and then industrial societies, newly developed professions and fields of occupation have been frequently inflected by gender. Some of the ways in which gender affects a field include:\n\n\nNote that these gender restrictions may not be universal in time and place, and that they operate to restrict both men and women. However, in practice, norms and laws have historically restricted women's access to particular occupations;civil rights laws and cases have thus primarily focused on equal access to and participation by \"women\" in the workforce. These barriers may also be manifested in hidden bias and by means of many microinequities.\n\nMany women face issues with sexual abuse while working in agriculture fields as well. Many of the women who work in these fields are undocumented and so supervisors or other male workers may take advantage of that. These women may suffer sexual abuse in order to keep their jobs and they cannot report the incident to the police because the fact that they are documented will be brought up and may be deported.\n\nA number of occupations became \"professionalized\" through the 19th and 20th centuries, gaining regulatory bodies, and passing laws or regulations requiring particular higher educational requirements. As women's access to higher education was often limited, this effectively restricted women's participation in these professionalizing occupations. For instance, women were completely forbidden access to Cambridge University until 1868, and were encumbered with a variety of restrictions until 1987 when the university adopted an equal opportunity policy. Numerous other institutions in the United States and Western Europe began opening their doors to women over the same period of time, but access to higher education remains a significant barrier to women's full participation in the workforce in developing countries. Even where access to higher education is formally available, women's access to the full range of occupational choices is significantly limited where access to primary education is limited through social custom.\n\nWomen's access to occupations requiring capital outlays is also hindered by their unequal access (statistically) to capital;this affects occupations such as entrepreneur and small business owner, farm ownership, and investor. Numerous microloan programs attempt to redress this imbalance, targeting women for loans or grants to establish start-up businesses or farms, having determined that aid targeted to women can disproportionately benefit a nation's economy. While research has shown that women cultivate more than half the world's food — in sub-Saharan Africa and the Caribbean, women are responsible for up to 80% of food production — most such work is family subsistence labor, and often the family property is legally owned by the men in the family.\n\nThe idea that men and women are naturally suited for different occupations is known as horizontal segregation.\n\nStatistical discrimination in the workplace is unintentional discrimination based on the presumed probability that a worker will or will not remain with the company for a long period of time. Specific to women, since employers believe that women are more likely to drop out of the labor force to have kids, or work part-time while they are raising kids, this tends to hurt their chances for job advancement. They are passed up for promotions because of the possibility that they may leave, and are in some cases placed in positions with little opportunity for upward mobility to begin with based on these same stereotypes.\n\nWomen continue to earn less money than men, despite establishing equal pay laws.\n\nAccording to the textbook \"Race, Class, and Gender: An Anthology\", women are at a higher risk of financial disadvantage in modern-day society than men. Statistical findings suggest that women are under paid for similar jobs men complete despite having the same qualifications. The statistical data collected by the U.S. Department of Labor suggests that women are discriminated against in the workforce based on gender. The textbook reads, “Women’s wages are also more volatile than men’s wages, and women face a much higher risk of seeing large drops in income than do men” (Kennedy 2008). Anderson clearly demonstrates a significant difference between men and women in the workforce in regards to pay. Women are left more exposed to financial devastation and unemployment. The textbook also mentions that women are often give public positions versus private or leadership positions despite having appropriate work experience, higher education, or necessary skills to qualify. According to the Joint Economic Committee, “Among women heading families, the unemployment rate has grown and is higher than the national unemployment rate and twice as high as that for either married men or married women” (Joint Economic Committee, 2009). In other words, unmarried women who are the head of household are more vulnerable to financial disadvantage than married men or women. The unemployment rate of women compared to men suggests that single women are discriminated against based on gender. Anderson writes, “All women are disproportionately at risk in the current foreclosure crisis, since women are 32% more likely than men to have subprime mortgages (One-third of women, compared to one-fourth of men, have subprime mortgages; and, the disparity between women and men increases in higher income brackets)” (Anderson 265). The statistical information illustrates the dramatic difference between men and women in regards to finances. It can be inferred that men are favored in the workforce over women. Women are discriminated against based on their gender and thus are more likely to struggle financially because of discriminatory employers.\n\nThrough a process known as \"employee clustering\", employees tend to be grouped throughout the workplace both spatially and socially with those of a similar status job. Women are no exception and tend to be grouped with other women making comparable amounts of money. They compare wages with the women around them and believe their salaries are fair because they are average. Some women are content with their lack of wage equality with men in the same positions because they are unaware of just how vast the inequality is.\n\nFurthermore, women as a whole tend to be less assertive and confrontational. One of the factors contributing to the higher proportion of raises going to men is the simple fact that men tend to ask for raises more often than women, and are more aggressive when doing so. Women, and men, are socialized at young ages into these roles. School-age boys and girls have been noted as enacting the same aggressive and passive characteristics, respectively, in educational settings that we see in adults in the workplace. Boys are more likely to be pushed competitively in school, and sports, to be dominant. The idea that “winning is everything” is not emphasized to the same extent for girls and therefore they are less likely to seek recognition for their work.\n\nAn additional issue that contributes to income inequality by gender is that women are much more likely than men to take \"breaks\" in their careers to have children, often remaining out of the workforce for extended periods of time, while men in the same role or occupation (or other women who do not leave the workforce) most likely are continuing to earn promotions and/or merit-based salary increases. When a woman in this scenario re-enters the workforce, she may be offered a smaller salary or a lower position than she might have merited had she remained in the workforce alongside her colleagues (both male and female) who have not interrupted their careers.\n\nIn the last 50 years there have been great changes toward gender equality in industrialised nations such as the United States of America. With the feminist movement of the 1960s, women began to enter the workforce in great numbers. Women also had high labor market participation during World War II as so many male soldiers were away, women had to take up jobs to support their family and keep their local economy on track. Many of these women dropped right back out of the labor force when the men returned home from war to raise children born in the generation of the baby boomers. In the late 1960s when women began entering the labor force in record numbers, they were entering in addition to all of the men, as opposed to substituting for men during the war. This dynamic shift from the one-earner household to the two-earner household dramatically changed the socioeconomic class system of industrialised nations in the post-war period.\n\nThe addition of women into the workforce was one of the key factors that has increased social mobility over the last 50 years, although this has stalled in recent decades for both genders. Female children of the middle and upper classes had increased access to higher education, and thanks to job equality, were able to attain higher-paying and higher-prestige jobs than ever before. Due to the dramatic increase in availability of birth control, these high status women were able to delay marriage and child-bearing until they had completed their education and advanced their careers to their desired positions. In 2001, the survey on sexual harassment at workplace conducted by women's nonprofit organisation Sakshi among 2,410 respondents in government and non-government sectors, in five states recorded 53 percent saying that both sexes don't get equal opportunities, 50 percent of women are treated unfairly by employers and co-workers, 59 per cent have heard sexist remarks or jokes, and 32 percent have been exposed to pornography or literature degrading women.\n\nIn comparison with other sectors, IT organisations may be offering equal salaries to women, and the density of women in technology companies may be relatively high, but this does not necessarily ensure a level playing field. For example, Microsoft (US) was sued because of the conduct of one of its supervisors over e-mail. The supervisor allegedly made sexually offensive comments via e-mail, such as referring to himself as \"president of the amateur gynecology club.\" He also allegedly referred to the plaintiff as the \"Spandex Queen. E-harassment is not the sole form of harassment. In 1999, Juno Online faced two separate suits from former employees who alleged that they were told that they would be fired if they broke off their ongoing relationships with senior executives. Pseudo Programs, a Manhattan-based Internet TV network, was sued in January 2000 after male employees referred to female employees as \"bimbos\" and forced them to look at sexually explicit material on the Internet. In India, HR managers admit that women are discriminated against for senior Board positions and pregnant women are rarely given jobs but only in private. In addition to this, it has been suggested that there are fewer women in the IT sector due to existing stereotypes that depict the sector as male-orientated. In a recent book, \"Own It: Leadership Lessons From Women Who Do\", author Aparna Jain interviewed 200 women in senior management and leadership positions in India about the problems they face at the workplace and noted that 86% of the women she spoke to experienced harassment in one form or the other. Among the issues she notes are bias, bullying, sexual harassment and the impact of motherhood on women's career. Recently a sexual harassment suit against a senior member shocked the Indian IT sector, as was the sexual harassment case against the Taj Hotels Resorts and Palaces' (Taj Group) CEO, Rakesh Sarna . A startling example of institutional mechanisms that allow for an unfettered environment for sexual harassment to fester is the Rajendra K. Pachauri scandal at The Energy and Resources Institute in India. Improvements in the education system could be the key to encouraging women to take up roles in this sector.\n\nRecognizing the invisible nature of power structures that marginalize women at the workplace, the Supreme Court in the landmark case \"Vaishaka versus High Court of Rajasthan\" (1997) identified sexual harassment as violative of the women's right to equality in the workplace and enlarged the ambit of its definition. The judgment equates a hostile work environment on the same plane as a direct request for sexual favors. To quote: \"Sexual harassment includes such unwelcome sexually determined behaviour (whether directly or by implication) as: physical contact and advances; a demand or request for sexual favours; sexually coloured remarks; showing pornography; any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature\". The judgement mandates appropriate work conditions should be provided for work, leisure, health, and hygiene to further ensure that there is no hostile environment towards women at the workplace and no woman employee should have reasonable grounds to believe that she is disadvantaged in connection with her employment.\n\nThis law thus squarely shifts the onus onto the employer to ensure employee safety but most mid-sized Indian service technology companies are yet to enact sexual harassment policies. Admits K Chandan, an advocate from Chandan Associates, \"I have a few IT clients. When I point to the need for a sexual harassment policy, most tend to overlook or ignore it. It's not high on the agenda.\" An HR Manager of India's premier technology companies rues: \"I am going to use the recent case to push the policy through. Earlier the draft proposal was rejected by the company.\" Yet another HR manager from a flagship company of India's leading business house, oblivious to the irony of her statement, admitted that the company had a grievance redressal mechanism but no sexual harassment policy in place. The lax attitudes transgress the Supreme Court judgment wherein the Court not only defined sexual harassment, but also laid down a code of conduct for workplaces to prevent and punish it, \"Employers or other responsible authorities in public or private sectors must comply with the following guidelines: Express prohibition of sexual harassment should be notified and circulated;private employers should include prohibition of sexual harassment in the standing orders under the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946.\" As for the complaint procedure, not less than half of its members should be women. The complaint committee should include an NGO or other organization that is familiar with the issue of sexual harassment. When the offense amounts to misconduct under service rules, appropriate disciplinary action should be initiated. When such conduct amounts to an offense under the Indian Penal Code, the employer shall initiate action by making a complaint with the appropriate authority. However, the survey by Sakshi revealed 58 per cent of women were not aware of the Supreme Court guidelines on the subject. A random survey by AssureConsulting.com among hundred employees working in the IT industry revealed startling results: Less than 10 per cent were familiar with the law or the company's sexual harassment policy. Surprisingly, certain HR managers were also ignorant of the Supreme Court guidelines or the Draft Bill by the National Commission of Women against sexual harassment at the workplace.\n\nNot surprisingly many cases go unreported. However, given the complexities involved, company policy is the first step and cannot wish away the problem. Says Savita HR Manager at Icelerate Technologies, \"We have a sexual harassment policy that is circulated among employees. Also the company will not tolerate any case that comes to its notice. But the man at home is no different from the person at the office,\" thus implying the social mindset that discriminates against women is responsible for the problem. Considering sexual censorship and conservative social attitudes emphasizing \"woman's purity,\" the victim dare not draw attention for fear of being branded a woman with \"loose morals\". Women would rather brush away the problem or leave jobs quietly rather than speak up, even in organizations that have a zero tolerance policy. Says Chandan, \"I do not have exact statistics but from my experience as an advocate one in 1,500 cases are reported.\" The problem cannot be resolved till more women speak up but the social set-up browbeats women into silence. The social stigma against the victim and the prolonged litigation process for justice thwarts most women from raising their voice. Purports K Chandan \"It may take between three and five years to settle a case, and in a situation where the harassment is covert, evidence is hard to gather and there is no guarantee that the ruling would be in favour of the victim. In one of the rare cases I handled a Country Manager was accused and the plaintiff opted for an out of court settlement.\"\n\nWomen in lower wage jobs are more likely to be subject to wage discrimination. They are more likely to bring home far less than their male counterparts with equal job status, and get far less help with housework from their husbands than the high-earning women. Women with low educational attainment entering the workforce in mass quantity lowered earnings for some men, as the women brought about a lot more job competition. The lowered relative earnings of the men and increase in birth control made marriage prospects harder for lower income women.\n\nFor the first time in the history of this country, there were distinctive socioeconomic stratification among women as there has been among men for centuries. This deepened the inequality between the upper/middle and lower/working classes. Prior to the feminist movement, the socioeconomic status of a family was based almost solely on the husband/father's occupation. Women who were now attaining high status jobs were attractive partners to men with high status jobs, so the high earners married the high earners and the low earners married the low earners. In other words, the rich got richer and the poor stayed the same, and have had increased difficulty competing in the economy.\n\nA 2008 study published in the British Medical Journal found that women were 46% more likely to call in sick for short time periods than men and a third more likely than men to take short term sick leave. At 60 days or more, men and women were equal in terms of sick leave.\nWomen in the workforce have tripled and as their numbers increase it has been hard for both mothers and fathers to be able to take care of their own newborn child or a sick family member. The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 has allowed for workers to have up to 12 weeks a year to leave work.\n\nIncreased participation of women in the workforce is associated with decreased fertility. A cross-country panel study found this fertility factor effect to be strongest among women aged 20–39, but with a less strong but persistent effect among older women as well. International United Nations data suggests that women who work because of economic necessity have higher fertility than those who work because they want to do so.\n\nHowever, for countries in the OECD area, increased female labor participation has been associated with an increased fertility.\n\nCausality analyses indicate that fertility rate influences female labor participation and not as much the other way around.\n\nRegarding types of jobs, women who work in nurturing professions such as teaching and health generally have children at an earlier age. It is theorized that women often self-select themselves into jobs with a favorable work–life balance in order to combine motherhood and employment.\n\nWomen have worked at agricultural tasks since ancient times, and continue to do so around the world. The Industrial Revolution of the late 18th and early 19th centuries changed the nature of work in Europe and other countries of the Western world. Working for a wage, and eventually a salary, became part of urban life. Initially, women were to be found doing even the hardest physical labor, including working as \"hurriers\" hauling heavy coal carts through mine shafts in Great Britain, a job that also employed many children. This ended after government intervention and the passing of the Mines and Collieries Act 1842, an early attempt at regulating the workplace.\n\nDuring the 19th century, an increasing number of women in Western countries took jobs in factories, such as textile mills, or on assembly lines for machinery or other goods. Women also worked as \"hawkers\" of produce, flowers, and other market goods, and bred small animals in the working-class areas of London. Piecework, which involved needlework (weaving, embroidery, winding wool or silk) that paid by the piece completed, was the most common employment for women in 19th century Great Britain. It was poorly paid, and involved long hours, up to 14 hours per day to earn enough wages to survive. Working-class women were usually involved in some form of paid employment, as it provided some insurance against the possibility that their husband might become too ill or injured to support the family. During the era before workers' compensation for disability or illness, the loss of a husband's wages could result in the entire family being sent to a Victorian workhouse to pay debts.\n\nInequality in wages was to be expected for women. In 1906, the government found that the average weekly factory wage for a woman ranged from 11s 3d to 18s 8d, whereas a man's average weekly wage was around 25s 9d. Employers stated they preferred to hire women, because they could be \"more easily induced to undergo severe bodily fatigue than men\". Childminding was another necessary expense for many women working in factories. Pregnant women worked up until the day they gave birth and returned to work as soon as they were physically able. In 1891, a law was passed requiring women to take four weeks away from factory work after giving birth, but many women could not afford this unpaid leave, and the law was unenforceable.\n\nThe 1870 US Census was the first United States Census to count \"females engaged in each occupation\" and provides an intriguing snapshot of women's history. It reveals that, contrary to popular belief, not all American women of the 19th century were either idle in their middle-class homes or working in sweatshops. Women were 15% of the total work force (1.8 million out of 12.5). They made up one-third of factory “operatives,” but teaching and the occupations of dressmaking, millinery, and tailoring played a larger role. Two-thirds of teachers were women. Women could also be found in such unexpected places as iron and steel works (495), mines (46), sawmills (35), oil wells and refineries (40), gas works (4), and charcoal kilns (5) and held such surprising jobs as ship rigger (16), teamster (196), turpentine laborer (185), brass founder/worker (102), shingle and lathe maker (84), stock-herder (45), gun and locksmith (33), and hunter and trapper (2).\n\nIn the beginning of the 20th century, women were regarded as society's guardians of morality; they were seen as possessing a finer nature than men and were expected to act as such. Their role was not defined as workers or money makers. Women were expected to hold on to their innocence until the right man came along so that they can start a family and inculcate that morality they were in charge of preserving. The role of men was to support the family financially. Yet at the turn of the 20th century, social attitudes towards educating young women were changing. Women in North America and Western Europe were now becoming more and more educated, in no small part because of the efforts of pioneering women to further their own education, defying opposition by male educators. By 1900, four out of five colleges accepted women and a whole coed concept was becoming more and more accepted.\nIn the United States, World War I made space for women in the workforce, among other economical and social influences. Due to the rise in demand for production from Europe during the raging war, more women found themselves working outside the home.\n\nIn the first quarter of the century, women mostly occupied jobs in factory work or as domestic servants, but as the war came to an end they were able to move on to such jobs as: salespeople in department stores as well as clerical, secretarial and other, what were called, \"lace-collar\" jobs. In July 1920, The New York Times ran a head line that read: \"the American Woman ... has lifted her skirts far beyond any modest limitation\" which could apply to more than just fashion; women were now rolling up their sleeves and skirts and making their way into the workforce.\n\nWorld War II created millions of jobs for women. Thousands of American women actually joined the military:\n140,000 in the Women's Army Corps (United States Army) WAC;\n100,000 in the Navy (WAVE);\n23,000 in the Marines;\n14,000 in the Navy Nurse Corps and,\n13,000 in the Coast Guard.\nAlthough almost none saw combat, they replaced men in noncombat positions and got the same pay as the men would have on the same job. At the same time over 16 million men left their jobs to join the war in Europe and elsewhere, opening even more opportunities and places for women to take over in the job force. Although two million women lost their jobs after the war ended, female participation in the workforce was still higher than it had ever been. In post-war America, women were expected to return to private life as homemakers and child-rearers. Newspapers and magazines directed at women encouraged them to keep a tidy home while their husbands were away at work. These articles presented the home as a woman's proper domain, which she was expected to run. Nevertheless, jobs were still available to women. However, they were mostly what are known as \"pink-collar\" jobs such as retail clerks and secretaries. The propaganda to encourage women to return to the home is depicted in the film The Life and Times of Rosie the Riveter.\n\nThe increase of women in the labor force of Western countries gained momentum in the late 19th century. At this point women married early on and were defined by their marriages. If they entered the workforce, it was only out of necessity.\n\nThe first phase encompasses the time between the late 19th century to the 1930s. This era gave birth to the \"independent female worker.\" From 1890 to 1930, women in the workforce were typically young and unmarried. They had little or no learning on the job and typically held clerical and teaching positions. Many women also worked in textile manufacturing or as domestics. Women promptly exited the work force when they were married, unless the family needed two incomes. Towards the end of the 1920s, as we enter into the second phase, married women begin to exit the work force less and less. Labor force productivity for married women 35–44 years of age increase by 15.5 percentage points from 10% to 25%. There was a greater demand for clerical positions and as the number of women graduating high school increased they began to hold more \"respectable\", steady jobs. This phase has been appropriately labeled as the Transition Era referring to the time period between 1930 and 1950. During this time the discriminatory institution of marriage bars, which forced women out of the work force after marriage, were eliminated, allowing more participation in the work force of single and married women. Additionally, women's labor force participation increased because there was an increase in demand for office workers and women participated in the high school movement. However, still women's work was contingent upon their husband's income. Women did not normally work to fulfill a personal need to define ones career and social worth; they worked out of necessity.\n\nIn the third phase, labeled the \"roots of the revolution\" encompassing the time from 1950– mid-to-late 1970s, the movement began to approach the warning signs of a revolution. Women's expectations of future employment changed. Women began to see themselves going on to college and working through their marriages and even attending graduate school. Many however still had brief and intermittent work force participation, without necessarily having expectations for a \"career\". To illustrate, most women were secondary earners, and worked in \"pink-collar jobs\" as secretaries, teachers, nurses, and librarians. The sexual harassment experienced by these pink collar workers is depicted in the film \"9 to 5\". Although more women attended college, it was often expected that they attended to find a spouse—the so-called \"M.R.S. degree\". Nevertheless, Labor force participation by women still grew significantly.\n\nThe fourth phase, known as the \"Quiet Revolution\", began in the late 1970s and continues on today. Beginning in the 1970s women began to flood colleges and grad schools. They began to enter profession like medicine, law, dental and business. More women were going to college and expected to be employed at the age of 35, as opposed to past generations that only worked intermittently due to marriage and childbirth. This increase in expectations of long-term gainful employment is reflected in the change of majors adopted by women from the 1970s on. The percentage of women majoring in education declined beginning in the 1970s; education was once a popular major for women since it allowed them to step into and out of the labor force when they had children and when their children grew up to a reasonable age at which their mothers did not have to serve primarily as caretakers. Instead, majors such as business and management were on the rise in the 1970s, as women ventured into other fields that were once predominated by men. They experienced an expansion of their horizons and an alteration of what it meant to define their own identity. Women worked before they got married, and since women were marrying later in life they were able to define themselves prior to a serious relationship. Research indicates that from 1965 to 2002, the increase in women's labor force participation more than offset the decline for men.\n\nThe reasons for this big jump in the 1970s has been attributed by some scholars to widespread access to the birth control pill. While \"the pill\" was medically available in the 1960s, numerous laws restricted access to it. See, e.g., \"Griswold v. Connecticut\", 381 U.S. 479 (1965) (overturning a Connecticut statute barring access to contraceptives) and \"Eisenstadt v. Baird\", 405 U.S. 438 (1972) (establishing the right of unmarried people to access contraception). By the 1970s, the age of majority had been lowered from 21 to 18 in the United States, largely as a consequence of the Vietnam War; this also affected women's right to effect their own medical decisions. Since it had now become socially acceptable to postpone pregnancy even while married, women had the luxury of thinking about other things, like education and work. Also, due to electrification women's work around the house became easier leaving them with more time to be able to dedicate to school or work. Due to the multiplier effect, even if some women were not blessed with access to the pill or electrification, many followed by the example of the other women entering the work force for those reasons. The Quiet Revolution is called such because it was not a \"big bang\" revolution; rather, it happened and is continuing to happen gradually.\n\nWomen tend to have different occupational hazards and health issues than men in the workplace. Women get carpal tunnel syndrome, tendonitis, anxiety disorders, stress, respiratory diseases, and infectious diseases due to their work at higher rates than men. The reasons for these differences may be differences in biology or in the work that women are performing. Women's higher rates of job-related stress may be due to the fact that women are often caregivers at home and do contingent work and contract work at a much higher rate than men. Another significant occupational hazard for women is homicide, which was the second most frequent cause of death on the job for women in 2011, making up 26% of workplace deaths in women. Immigrant women are at higher risk for occupational injury than native-born women in the United States, due to higher rates of employment in dangerous industries.\n\nWomen are at lower risk for work-related death than men. However, personal protective equipment is usually designed for typical male proportions, which can create hazards for women who have ill-fitting equipment. Women are less likely to report an occupational injury than men.\n\nResearch is ongoing into occupational hazards that may be specific to women. Of particular interest are potential environmental causes of breast cancer and cervical cancer. Sexual harassment is an occupational hazard for many women, and can cause serious negative symptoms including anxiety, depression, nausea, headache, insomnia, and feelings of low self-esteem and alienation. Women are also at higher risk for occupational stress, which can be caused by balancing roles as a parent or caregiver with work.\n\n\nBelow is a list of encyclopedia articles that detail women's historical involvement in various occupations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee \n\n"}
