{"id": "19571040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19571040", "title": "77th parallel north", "text": "77th parallel north\n\nThe 77th parallel north is a circle of latitude that is 77 degrees north of the Earth's equatorial plane, in the Arctic. It crosses the Atlantic Ocean, Europe, Asia, the Arctic Ocean and North America. It is the northernmost integral parallel that passes through continental mainland (namely the Taymyr Peninsula of Siberia).\n\nStarting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the parallel 77° north passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "53180204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53180204", "title": "9th National Geographic Bee", "text": "9th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 9th National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 28, 1997, sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The final competition was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. The winner was Alex Kerchner of Kamiakin Junior High School in Kirkland, Washington, who won a $25,000 college scholarship. The 2nd-place winner, Steve Sreckovic of South Milwaukee, Wisconsin, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, Justin Mosel of Orchard, Nebraska, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "8810660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8810660", "title": "Alexander Kruber", "text": "Alexander Kruber\n\nAlexander Alexandrovich Kruber (; – December 15, 1941) was a Soviet geographer, professor, the founder of the Russian and Soviet karstology.\n\nAlexander Kruber was born in Istra (formerly Voskresensk), Russia. He graduated from the Moscow University in 1897. He became chairman of the Geography Department of the Moscow University in 1919 and director of the Scientific Research Institute of Geography during 1923-1927. Since 1927 he could no longer work due to grave health problems.\n\nHe studied karst structures of the East European Plain, Crimea, and Caucasus.\n\nA mountain ridge on the Iturup Island (Kruber Ridge), a carst cavity in the Karabi-Yayla Plateau (Караби-яйла), Crimea, and a karst cave in Caucasus (Krubera-Voronya Cave) are named after him.\n"}
{"id": "44669776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44669776", "title": "Areas of Kuwait", "text": "Areas of Kuwait\n\nKuwait is divided into six governorates, in each there are several areas ().\n\nAreas, due to their small area which does not exceed , are sometimes called towns. However they are officially translated to \"areas\". The Arabic word for area, \"Mantaqa منطقة\" can mean both mean \"area\" and \"region\".\n\nEach area in Kuwait has an official governmental facility called co-op society or just society (). For example, in Surra, it's called \"Surra Co-op Society\". Societies are mainly supermarkets that provide foods and produces, and they may take part in maintaining some on the areas' landmarks like parks and schools, but they're not legally obliged to. Societies have elected members who manage them. Only residents of the area can vote for their society membership.\n\n"}
{"id": "507628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=507628", "title": "Barbary Coast", "text": "Barbary Coast\n\nThe term Barbary Coast or Berbery or Berber Coast was used by Europeans from the 16th to early 19th century to refer to much of the collective land of the Berber people.\n\nThe term \"Barbary Coast\" emphasizes the Berber coastal regions and cities throughout the middle and western coastal regions of North Africa – what is now modern nations of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya. The English term \"Barbary\" (and its European varieties: \"Barbaria\", \"Berbérie\", etc.) referred mainly to the entire Berber lands including non-coastal regions, deep into the African continent, as seen in European geographical and political maps published during the 17th–20th centuries.\n\nThe name derives from the Berber people of North Africa (from greek \"Bàrbaroi\", Βάρβαροι, \"barbaric\"). In the West, the name commonly evoked the Barbary pirates and Barbary slave traders based on that coast—who attacked ships and coastal settlements in the Mediterranean Sea and eastern North Atlantic Ocean, and captured and traded slaves or goods from Europe, America and sub-Saharan Africa. These actions finally provoked the Barbary Wars of the early 19th century. The slaves and goods were being traded and sold throughout the Ottoman Empire or to the Europeans themselves.\n\n\"Barbary\" was not always a unified political entity. From the 16th century onwards, it was divided into the political entities of the Regency of Algiers, Tunis, and Tripolitania (Tripoli). Major rulers petty monarchs during the times of the Barbary states' plundering parties included the Pasha or Dey of Algiers, the Bey of Tunis and the Bey of Tripoli.\n\nBefore then, the territory was usually divided between Ifriqiya, Morocco, and a west-central Algerian state centered on Tlemcen or Tiaret. Powerful Berber dynasties such as the Almohads (12th century) and briefly thereafter the Hafsids, occasionally unified it for short periods. From a European perspective, Tripoli in modern-day Libya, was considered its \"capital\" or chief city—though Marrakesh in Morocco was the largest and most important Berber city at the time. Some saw Algiers in Algeria, or Tangiers in Morocco as the \"capital\".\nThe first United States military land action overseas, executed by the U.S. Marines and Navy, was the Battle of Derna, Tripoli (a coastal town in modern eastern Libya) in April 1805. It formed part of an effort to destroy all of the Barbary pirates, to free American slaves in captivity, and to put an end to piracy acts between these warring tribes on the part of the Barbary states, which were themselves member states of the Ottoman Empire. The opening line of the \"Marines' Hymn\" refers to this action: \"From the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli...\" This was the first time the United States Marine Corps took part in offensive actions outside of the United States.\n\nThe modern word \"razzia\" is, via Italian and French, from Algerian Arabic \"ghaziya\" (غزية \"raiding\"), originally referring to slave raids conducted by Barbary pirates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40064644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40064644", "title": "Bibliography of Angola", "text": "Bibliography of Angola\n\nThis is a bibliography of notable works about Angola.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36362423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36362423", "title": "Blake Nose", "text": "Blake Nose\n\nBlake Nose is a submerged peninsula extending northeast from the North American continental shelf, located about 280 miles (460 km) east of Daytona Beach, Florida. Part of the Blake Plateau, Blake Nose is about 40 mi (64 km) wide at the base of the peninsula and about 50 mi (80 km) long.\n\nBlake Nose appears as a distinctive \"spur\" in online satellite maps which show the Atlantic continental shelf of Florida.\n"}
{"id": "1178249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178249", "title": "Chang Chi-yun", "text": "Chang Chi-yun\n\nChang Ch‘i-yün or Zhang Qiyun (29 September 1901 – 26 August 1985) was a historian, geographer, educator and politician. He was the founder of the Chinese Culture University and the Nanhai Academy and served as Minister of Education of the Republic of China. He was a lead editor on the \"Zhongwen Da Cidian\n\nChang Ch‘i-yün graduated from the Division of History and Geography of National Nanjing Higher Normal School (later renamed National Central University and Nanjing University), where he studied from scholars such as Liu Yizheng, Zhu Kezhen and Liu Boming.\n\nHis son is Chang Jen-Hu, an educator in Taiwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1325731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1325731", "title": "Christmas traditions", "text": "Christmas traditions\n\nChristmas traditions vary from country to country. Christmas celebrations for many nations include the installing and lighting of Christmas trees, the hanging of Advent wreaths, Christmas stockings, candy canes, and the creation of Nativity scenes depicting the birth of Jesus Christ. Christmas carols may be sung and stories told about such figures as the Baby Jesus, St Nicholas, Santa Claus, Father Christmas, Christkind or Grandfather Frost. The sending and exchange of Christmas card greetings, observance of fasting and special religious observances such as a midnight Mass or Vespers on Christmas Eve, the burning of a Yule log, and the giving and receiving of presents. Along with Easter, Christmas is one of the most important periods on the Christian calendar, and is often closely connected to other holidays at this time of year, such as Advent, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, St Nicholas Day, St. Stephen's Day, New Year's, and the Feast of the Epiphany.\n\nChristmas Day is a public holiday in Eritrea that is celebrated on January 7 or on 27 Tahsas of the Ethiopian calendar. Christmas is called \"Ledet\" (ልደት) in Eritrea or \"Gena\" (ገና) in Ethiopia. Many people who are Christian in the two countries fast for 40 days (it is called fast of the prophets). They then head to church at dawn on Christmas morning. On Christmas Day, there will be colorful musical celebrations which involve the priests dressed in their best robes performing rituals, including dancing and playing drums and other instruments. Early in the morning at dawn, everyone dresses in white and head to the nearby church. Late in the afternoon there will be the traditional game of Gena, a kind of hockey. According to an Ethiopian legend, the game was being played by the shepherds who were tending their flocks on the night that Jesus was born. The game is attended by the leader of the community. A prize is awarded to the winner of the Gena game. Most Ethiopians don a traditional Shamma, a thin, white cotton wrap with brightly colored stripes across the ends.The holiday is followed up by the three-day festival Timkat starting on January 19 and celebrating the baptism of Jesus Christ.\n\nChristmas Day is a public holiday in Nigeria which is always marked by the emptying of towns and cities as Nigerians that have been successful returning to their ancestral villages to be with family and to bless those less fortunate. As the towns and cities empty, people jam the West African markets to buy and transport live chickens, goats and cows that will be needed for the Christmas meals.\n\nOn Christmas Eve, traditional meals are prepared according to the traditions of each region. Nigerians as a whole tend to prepare various meats in large quantities. In the south, a dish called Jollof rice is served with stews of various meats along with boiled beans and fried plantains; in the north, Rice and Stew as well as \"Tuwon Shinkafa\", a rice pudding served with various meat stews, is preferred. In the North several local desserts are also made which is hardly ever found in other parts of Nigeria. An alternative in both regions (but more favored in the south) is a pepper soup with fish, goat, or beef which may also be served with Fufu (pounded yam). Served with this food are an array of mainly alcoholic drinks such as the traditional palm wine or various local and imported beers and wines; children and women may be served locally-made soft-drink equivalents instead.\n\nGift giving in Nigeria often involves money and the flow of gifts from the more fortunate to the less fortunate. After the \"successful\" visitors have come from their towns, cities, and even overseas, they are given time to settle in. Afterwards, local relatives begin approaching them asking for assistance of some kind, whether financial or not. Financial donations and elaborately wrapped gifts may be given out at lavish parties, weddings, and ceremonies; sometimes the money is scattered in the air to be grabbed by the others or stuck onto the sweaty foreheads of those dancing.\n\nReligion in Nigeria is about equally divided between Christians and Muslims. There are occasional outbreaks of religious conflict. The Islamic sect Boko Haram has attacked Christian churches with bombings on Christmas 2011.\n\nChristmas in South Africa is a public holiday celebrated on December 25. Many European traditions are maintained despite the distance from Europe.\n\nChristmas trees are set up in homes and the children are given presents in their stockings. Traditional 'fir' Christmas trees are popular and children leave a stocking or milk and cookies out for Santa Claus on Christmas Eve. The gift bearer is Santa Claus on Christmas Eve. Towns and cities have Carols by Candlelight in the beginning of the festive season where groups of people come together to sing Christmas carols and donate toys and clothing to needy children.\n\nThe Christmas meal is mince pies, turkey, gammon, beef tongue, turducken, corned beef, green salad,roast beef or a barbecue outdoors. The meal is finished with Christmas Pudding, Ice cream or trifle. Christmas crackers are used to make noise.\n\nDespite Christmas occurring at the height of the Southern Hemisphere summer, wintry motifs common to the Northern Hemisphere are popular.\n\nIn China, December 25 is not a legal holiday. However, it is still designated as a public holiday in China's special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau, both former colonies of Western powers with nominal Christian cultural heritage.\n\nIn the mainland, the small percentage of Chinese citizens who consider themselves Christians unofficially, and usually privately, observe Christmas. Many other individuals celebrate Christmas-like festivities even though they do not consider themselves Christians. Many customs, including sending cards, exchanging gifts, and hanging stockings are very similar to Western celebrations. Commercial Christmas decorations, signs, and other symbolic items have become increasingly prevalent during the month of December in large urban centres of mainland China, reflecting a cultural interest in this Western phenomenon, and, sometimes, retail marketing campaigns as well.\n\nIn Hong Kong, where Christmas is a public holiday, many buildings facing Victoria Harbour will be decorated with Christmas lights. Christmas trees are found in major malls and other public buildings, and in some homes as well, despite the small living area. Catholics in Hong Kong can attend Christmas Mass.\n\nChristmas is a public holiday in Macau. Its traditions are mostly influenced by the Portuguese since the territory was a colony of Portugal until December 20, 1999. Casinos in Macau remain open on Christmas Day. Christmas masses in Macau's Catholic churches are held in either Chinese or Portuguese.\n\nEncouraged by commerce, the secular celebration of Christmas is popular in Japan, though Christmas is not a national holiday. Gifts are sometimes exchanged. Christmas parties are held around Christmas Day; Japanese Christmas cake, a white sponge cake covered with cream and decorated with strawberries, is often consumed and Stollen cake, either imported or made locally, is widely available. Christmas lights decorate cities, and Christmas trees adorn living areas and malls. Christmas Eve has become a holiday for couples to spend time together and exchange gifts. A successful advertising campaign in the 1970s made eating at KFC around Christmas a national custom. Its chicken meals are so popular during the season that stores take reservations months in advance.\n\nThe first recorded Christmas in Japan was a Mass held by Jesuit Missionaries in Yamaguchi Prefecture in 1552. Some believe that unrecorded celebrations were held before this date, starting in 1549 when Saint Francis Xavier arrived in Japan. Christianity was banned throughout Japan in 1612. However, a small enclave of Kakure Kirishitan (\"hidden Christians\") continued to practice underground over the next 250 years.\n\nChristianity in Japan along with Christmas reemerged in the Meiji period. Influenced by America, Christmas parties were held and presents were exchanged. The practice slowly spread, but its proximity to the New Year's celebrations makes it a smaller focus of attention. During World War II, all celebrations, especially American, were suppressed. From the 1960s, with an expanding economy, and influenced by American TV, Christmas became popular. Many songs and TV series present Christmas as romantic, for example \"Last Christmas\" by Exile. The birthday of the current emperor, Akihito, on December 23 is a national holiday. Businesses soon close for the New Year's holidays, reopening after January 3.\n\nChristmas is a public holiday in South Korea.\n\nAs Christmas is totally banned in North Korea, South Koreans living near the DMZ are not allowed to put an outdoor Christmas tree or decorations.\n\nBeing a British colony until 1947, many British traditions stayed on in India. Christmas is a state holiday in India, although Christianity in India is a minority with only 2.3% (of 1.237 Billion) of the population. Most of the Christians, especially Catholics in India attend the midnight mass. Many Christian houses in India decorate Christmas cribs, hang brightly lit stars outside their houses and distribute sweets and cakes to their neighbors. In many of the schools that are run by the Christian missionaries, the children actively participate in Christmas programs. Also in many non-religious schools, there is tradition of Christmas celebration. Christmas is also increasingly celebrated by other religions in India.\nChristmas is known as \"Badaa Din\" (Big Day) in North and North-West India and people plant trees on this day.\n\nChristianity in Pakistan constitutes the second largest religious minority community in Pakistan after Hindus. The total number of Christians is approximately 2,800,000 in 2008, or 1.6% of the population. Of these, approximately half are Roman Catholic and half Protestant. Christians celebrate Christmas by going from house to house singing carols, and in return the family offers something to the choir. Mostly the money collected from such carols is used for charity works or is given to the church. Their homes are decorated with local Christmas handicrafts while artificial stars signifying the Star of Bethlehem are hung on rooftops. Christmas celebrations are also popular with the urban middle class in the country with hotels, cafes, restaurants and theme parks hosting festivities and special events.\n\nAs of December 22, 2015, Christmas is totally banned in Brunei (but for its expatriate and local Christian community, it is still celebrated as usual privately amongst themselves), which includes putting up Christmas trees, singing Christmas carols, Nativity plays, festive greeting, and even dressing as Santa Claus. About 20 percent of the population are non-Muslims and anyone caught will face up to five years in jail. Before the Sharia law was passed in 2014, non-Muslim expats were free to celebrate Christmas in Brunei.\n\nThe Christmas in Indonesia (locally known as \"Natal\", from the Portuguese word for Christmas), is one of many public holidays in Indonesia which approximately 16.5 million Protestants and 6.9 million Roman Catholics, celebrated with various traditions throughout the country. In the provinces with majority or significantly of Christian (Protestants and Catholics) such as North Sumatra, Jakarta, West Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan, North Kalimantan, North Sulawesi, West Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku, the whole Papua Island, and cities like Surabaya, Tangerang, Batam, Bandung, etc., the Christmas season is filled with ceremonies, festival, and local foods. In big cities, many shopping centres, offices, some roads, and other commercial places are mostly decorated with Christmas stuff such as plastic Christmas trees and \"Sinterklas\" (derived from the Dutch word \"Sinterklaas\") and its reindeers. Most local television channels will broadcast Christmas musical concerts and annual national Christmas celebrations like concerts and Christmas shows which are held by the government. Like other countries, on Christmas Eve, people will go to church for \"Misa\" and will go to church again the next morning, and exchanging gifts is a usual tradition for Christians in Indonesia. In addition to traditional foods, generally every Christmas Day is filled with cookies, like \"nastar\" (pineapple tart), kastengel (from Dutch word \"kasteengel\"), or 'putri salju'.\n\nAlthough Christmas is a public holiday in Malaysia, much of the public celebration is commercial in nature and has no overt religious overtones. Occasionally, Christian activist groups do buy newspaper advertorials on Christmas or Easter but this is largely only allowed in English newspapers and permission is not given every year. The advertorials themselves are usually indirect statements. There has been controversy over whether or not the national government has exerted pressure on Malaysian Christians not to use Christian religious symbols and hymns that specifically mention Jesus Christ.\n\nChristmas in the Philippines, one of two predominantly Catholic countries in Asia (the other one being East Timor), is one of the biggest holidays on the calendar and is widely celebrated. The country has earned the distinction of celebrating the world's longest Christmas season, with Christmas carols heard as early as September 1 when the \"Ber Months\" season kicks off traditionally. The season is officially ushered in by the nine-day dawn Masses that start on December 16. Known as the \"Misas de Aguinaldo\" (Gift Masses) or \"Misa de Gallo\" (Rooster's Mass) in the traditional Spanish, these Masses are more popularly known in Tagalog as the \"Simbang Gabi\", and are held in Catholic parishes and chapels nationwide. Usually, aside from the already legal holidays which are Rizal Day (December 30) and New Year's Eve (December 31), other days in close proximity such as Christmas Eve (December 24), \"Niños Inocentes\" (December 28), and the Epiphany (traditionally, January 6 but now on the first Sunday of January) are also declared non-working days.\n\nAs in many East Asian countries, secular Christmas displays are common both in business establishments and in public, including lights, Christmas trees, depictions of Santa Claus despite the tropical climate, and Christmas greetings in various foreign languages and various Philippine languages. Occasionally such displays are left in place even in summer for example the \"parol\" representing the \"Star of Bethlehem\" which led the Three Kings to the newborn Baby Jesus.\n\nFor Filipinos, Christmas Eve (Tagalog: \"Bisperas ng Pasko\"; Spanish: \"Víspera del Día de Navidad\") on December 24 is celebrated with the Midnight Mass, and immediately after, the much-anticipated Noche Buena – the traditional Christmas Eve feast. Family members dine together around 12 midnight on traditional Nochebuena fare, which may include: \"queso de bola\" (English: \"ball of cheese\"; this is actually edam cheese), \"tsokolate\" (a hot chocolate drink), and \"jamón\" (Christmas ham), \"lechón\", roast chicken or turkey, pasta, \"relleno\" (stuffed \"bangus\" or chicken), \"pan de sal\", and various desserts including cakes and the ubiquitous fruit salad. Some would also open presents at this time.\n\nOn December 31, New Year's Eve (Tagalog: \"Bisperas ng Bagong Taon\"; Spanish: \"Víspera del Año Nuevo\"), Filipino families gather for the Media Noche or midnight meal – a feast that is also supposed to symbolize their hopes for a prosperous New Year. In spite of the campaign against firecrackers, many Filipinos still see these as the traditional means to greet the New Year. The loud noises and sounds of merrymaking are also supposed to drive away bad spirits. Safer methods of merrymaking include banging on pots and pans and blowing on car horns. Folk beliefs also include encouraging children to jump at the stroke of midnight in the belief that they will grow up tall, displaying circular fruit and wearing clothes with dots and other circular designs to symbolize money, eating twelve grapes at 12 midnight for good luck in the twelve months of the year, and opening windows and doors during the first day of the New Year to let in good luck.\n\nChristmas officially ends on the Feast of the Three Kings (\"Tres Reyes\" in Spanish or \"Tatlong Hari\" in Tagalog), also known as the Feast of the Epiphany (Spanish: \"Fiesta de Epifanía\"). The Feast of the Three Kings was traditionally commemorated on January 6 but is now celebrated on the first Sunday after the New Year. Some children leave their shoes out, in the belief that the Three Kings will leave gifts like candy or money inside. But the celebrations do not end there, since 2011, as mandated by the Catholic Church, they are on the second Sunday of January in honor of the Lord Jesus's baptism in the Jordan (the Solemnity of the Lord's Baptism or in Spanish \"Solemnidad de Bautismo del Señor\"). The final salvo of these celebrations is marked by the feast of the Black Nazarene every January 9 in Manila and Cagayan de Oro, but can also, due to the celebrations in honor of the Santo Niño in the third and fourth Sundays of January in some places, can even extend till the final weeks of that month.\n\nChristmas is a public holiday in Singapore that is widely celebrated. The Christmas season is also a popular period for shopping centres and businesses to conduct year-end sales, and will offer discounts and promotions that tie in with the festivities. The famous Singaporean shopping belt Orchard Road, as well as the Marina Bay area will feature lights and other decorations from early November till early January (the 2014 part is November 14, 2014 all the way until January 5, 2015). The Christmas light-up and decorated shopping malls along Orchard Road often attract numerous visitors, locals and tourists alike. Other than the light-up, other activities such as caroling, concerts and parades can also be experienced in Orchard Road. In addition, companies in Singapore usually arrange gift exchange programs on the last working day before Christmas.\n\nChristmas is not a national holiday but is becoming increasingly popular in Vietnam. The ever-wealthier Vietnamese are embracing Christmas precisely because of its non-religious glamor and commercial appeal. Locals also are more exposed to Western culture, though their style of celebrating Christmas might seem unrecognizable to some Westerners. Vietnamese may be more accepting of corporate influence because for many, Christmas was never based on personal values to begin with. It's not a time to have dinner at home with family and show thanks for one another. Instead, it's a time to go out on the town, shop, and take pictures with friends in front of colorful displays, especially on December 24.\n\nArmenians usually celebrate Christmas on January 6. The reason for this unusual date emerges from ancient history. \"In the fourth century Roman Catholic Church, officials established the date of Christmas as December 25th.\" Before that time, Armenians celebrated Christmas (\"surb tsnunt\", Սուրբ Ծնունդ, meaning \"Holy Birth\") on January 6 as a public holiday in Armenia. It also coincides with the Epiphany. The Armenians denied the new Roman mandate regarding Christmas, and continued to celebrate both the Nativity and Jesus’ baptism on January 6. When the Gregorian calendar was implemented in 1582, the Armenians rejected the reformed calendar and remained following the Julian Calendar. But today, only Armenian Patriarchate of Jerusalem still uses the Julian Calendar. Since the Julian calendar is thirteen days ahead of the Gregorian Calendar, when the Armenians of Jerusalem celebrate Christmas on January 6 according to the Julian calendar the Gregorian calendar counts the day as January 19.\n\nTraditionally, Armenians fast during the week leading up to Christmas avoiding all meat, eggs, and dairy products. Devout Armenians may even refrain from food for the three days leading up to the Christmas Eve, in order to receive the Eucharist on a \"pure\" stomach. Christmas Eve is particularly rich in traditions. Families gather for the Christmas Eve dinner (\"khetum\", Խթում), which generally consists of: rice, fish, \"nevik\" (նուիկ, a vegetable dish of green chard and chick peas), and yogurt/wheat soup (\"tanabur\", թանապուր). Dessert includes dried fruits and nuts, including \"rojik\", which consists of whole shelled walnuts threaded on a string and encased in grape jelly, \"bastukh\" (a paper-like confection of grape jelly, cornstarch, and flour), etc. This lighter menu is designed to ease the stomach off the week-long fast and prepare it for the rather more substantial Christmas Day dinner. Children take presents of fruits, nuts, and other candies to older relatives. \"On the eve of the Feast of the Nativity and Theophany of The Lord Jesus Christ, the Jrakalouyts Divine Liturgy (the lighting of the lamps service) is celebrated in honor of the manifestation of Jesus as the Son of God (theophany)\" In addition to the Christmas tree (\"tonatsar\", Տօնածառ), Armenians (particularly in the Middle East) also erect the Nativity scene. Christmas in the Armenian tradition is a purely religious affair. Santa Claus does not visit the nice Armenian children on Christmas, but rather on New Year's Eve. The idea of Santa Claus existed before the Soviet Union and he was named \" kaghand papik\" (Կաղանդ Պապիկ), but the Soviet Union had a great impact even on Santa Claus. Now he goes by the more secular name of Grandfather Winter (\"dzmerr papik\", Ձմեռ Պապիկ).\n\nThe Assyrians, the indigenous people of northwestern Iran, northern Iraq, northeastern Syria, and southeastern Turkey that belong to the Assyrian Church of the East, Ancient Church of the East, Syriac Orthodox Church, and Chaldean Catholic Church today celebrate Christmas on December 25. Assyrians colloquially call Christmas \"Eda Zora,\" meaning \"little holiday.\" It is officially called \"Eda d'Yalde\" which means \"birthday holiday.\" Traditionally, Assyrians fast (\"sawma\") from December 1 until Christmas Day. In Iraq, for instance, on Christmas Eve, Assyrian families congregate outside of their house and hold lighted candles while a child reads aloud the nativity story. Then they all sing psalms over a bonfire made of thorn bushes. Folklore says that if the thorns burn to ashes, the family will have good luck. After the fire has been reduced to ashes, the family members will jump three times over the ashes and make a wish. The next day, on Christmas, \"as another bonfire burns in the churchyard, the bishops lead the service while carrying a figure of the baby Jesus. He blesses one person with a touch. That person touches the next person and the touch passes around until all have felt the touch of peace.\" Many Assyrians will attend the \"Shaharta,\" or midnight vigil before Christmas. On Christmas Day, when families gather together after the \"Shaharta\" or morning mass, \"raza d'mowlada d'maran,\" the fast is broken by eating traditional Assyrian foods such as \"pacha/reesh-aqle\" (meaning \"from the head to the tail\"), which is a boiled soup made of sheep or cow intestines, tongue, stomach, legs, and spices or \"harissa\", a porridge made of ground wheat and chicken (both dishes are prepared usually overnight). These two dishes are only made twice a year: on Christmas and Easter. Traditional desserts eaten after the main course include Killeche, a date and walnut-stuffed cookie, and Kadeh, another stuffed pastry. After the feast is finished, Assyrians will visit the houses of family and friends to exchange Christmas greetings, saying, \"Eedokhon breekha,\" meaning \"May your feast be blessed.\" There, the host will serve tea, Turkish coffee, and Killeche and Kadeh to guests. Although Christmas is celebrated in a much more religious fashion, in recent years, families put up a small Christmas tree in the house.\n\nChristmas is an official holiday in Lebanon. Lebanese celebrate Christmas on December 25, except for Armenian Lebanese who celebrate Christmas on January 6 which is also an official holiday in Lebanon. Lebanese families come together and butcher a sheep for a Christmas Eve feast, in honor of the birth of The Shepherd Jesus Christ. On that night the head of the house passes around a piece of coal representing the sins before Christ. After the piece of coal has been passed around it is then set on fire. After Dinner, Christian Lebanese attend midnight mass. Santa Claus is known by the French, \"Papa Noël\". Gifts are either dropped off at church or \"Papa Noël\" makes a personal appearance at the home.\n\nChristmas is observed widely on December 25. Governments recognizing the holiday include those of: the United States, where it is a federal holiday for federal employees and a legal holiday in the respective States; Canada, where it is a nationwide statutory holiday; Mexico, where it is also a nationwide statutory holiday; and several others.\n\nIn the Canadian provinces where English is the predominant language, Christmas traditions are largely similar to those of the United States, with some lingering influences from the United Kingdom and newer traditions brought by immigrants from other European countries. Mince pies, plum pudding, and Christmas cake are traditionally served as Christmas dinner desserts, following the traditional meal of roast turkey, stuffing, potatoes, and winter vegetables. Christmas table crackers are not uncommon and, in some parts of Newfoundland and Nova Scotia, Christmas traditions include mummers.\n\nNorth American influences on Christmas are evident in the hanging of stockings on Christmas Eve, to be filled by Santa Claus. However, Canadian children believe that the home of Santa Claus is located at the North Pole, in Canada, and, through Canada Post, address thousands of letters to Santa Claus each year, using the postal code designation \"H0H 0H0\". Decorated Christmas trees, either fresh cut or artificial, were introduced to Canada in 1781, originally by German soldiers stationed in Quebec during the American Revolution, and are now common in private homes and commercial spaces throughout most of Canada.\n\nAs Canada is a cold, dark country in winter, lights are often put up in public places and on commercial and residential buildings in November and December. Many communities have celebrations that include light events, such as the Cavalcade of Lights Festival in Toronto, the Montreal Christmas Fireworks, or the Bright Nights in Stanley Park, Vancouver. A national program, Christmas Lights Across Canada, illuminates Ottawa, the national capital, and the 13 provincial and territorial capitals.\n\nIn the province of Quebec, Christmas traditions include \"réveillon\", \"Père Noël\" (\"Father Christmas\"), and the \"bûche de Noël\" (Yule log), among many others. A traditional dish for the réveillon is \"tourtière\", a savoury meat pie, and gifts are opened during \"réveillon\", often following Midnight Mass.\n\nThe Royal Christmas Message from the Canadian monarch is televised nationwide in Canada, the occasion being an observance which unites Canadians with citizens of the other Commonwealth countries worldwide. The observation of Boxing Day on the day following Christmas Day is a tradition practiced in Canada, as it is in many other Anglophone countries, although not in the United States. In Canada, Boxing Day is a day (or the beginning of a few days) of deeply discounted sale prices at retail stores which attract large numbers of shoppers in search of bargains.\n\nChristmas is a statutory holiday in Mexico and workers can have the day off with pay. Mexico's\nChristmas is filled with over 30 traditions found only within Mexican Christmas. Over nine days, groups of townspeople go from door to door in a fashion of when the parents of the unborn baby Jesus Christ looked for shelter to pass the night when they arrived at Bethlehem, and are periodically called inside homes to participate in the breaking of a candy-filled piñata.\n\nMexican Christmas festivities start on December 12, with the feast of La Guadalupana (Virgin of Guadalupe), and end on January 6, with the Epiphany. Since the 1990s, Mexican society has embraced a new concept linking several celebrations around Christmas season into what is known as the Guadalupe-Reyes Marathon. At midnight on Christmas, many families place the figure of baby Jesus in their \"nacimientos\" (Nativity scenes), as the symbolic representation of Christmas as a whole. In the center and south of Mexico, children receive gifts on Christmas Eve and on January 6, they celebrate the Feast of the Epiphany, when, according to tradition, the Three Wise Men (3 Wizard Kings) brought gifts to Bethlehem for Jesus Christ. Santa Claus (or Santa Clos, as he's known in Mexico) is who brings the children their gifts, but traditionally the Three Wise Men will fill the children's shoes with candies, oranges, tangerines, nuts, and sugar cane, and sometimes money or gold. For the Three Wise Men gave Baby Jesus Gold for his future.\n\nChristmas is a widely celebrated festive holiday in the United States, and Christmas Day is officially recognized as a federal holiday by the US Government. The Christmas and holiday season begins around the end of November with a major shopping kickoff on Black Friday, the day after the U.S. holiday of Thanksgiving, though Christmas decorations and music playing in stores sometimes extend into the period between Halloween and Thanksgiving. Many schools and businesses are closed during the period between Christmas and the New Year's Day holiday, which is a time commonly used to spend time with family and close friends, return unwanted gifts at stores, and shop after-Christmas sales. Most decorations are taken down by New Years or Epiphany. Other observances considered part of the season (and potentially included in non-denominational holiday greetings like \"Happy Holidays\") include Hanukkah, Yule, Epiphany, Kwanzaa, and winter solstice celebrations.\n\nThe interior and exterior of houses are decorated during the weeks leading up to Christmas Eve. Christmas tree farms in the United States and Canada provide families with trees for their homes, many opting for artificial ones, but some for real ones. The Christmas tree usually stands centrally in the home, decorated with ornaments, tinsel, and lights, with an angel or a star symbolizing the Star of Bethlehem at the top.\n\nChristmas Eve is popularly described as \"the night before Christmas\" in the poem actually titled \"A Visit from St. Nicholas\". Better known as Santa Claus, he is said to visit homes while children are sleeping during the night before Christmas morning. The fireplaces in many homes have been replaced by electric fireplaces, but the yule log has remained a tradition. Christmas stockings are hung on the mantelpiece for Santa Claus to fill with little gifts (\"stocking stuffers\"). It is tradition throughout the United States for children to leave a glass of milk and plate of Christmas cookies for Santa Claus nearby.\n\nPresents the family will exchange are wrapped and placed near the tree, including presents to be given to pets. Friends exchange wrapped presents and tell each other not to open presents before Christmas. Grandparents, aunts and uncles, cousins, siblings and occasionally guests from out of town are entertained in the home or else visited. Wrapped presents are most commonly opened on the morning of Christmas Day; however, some families choose to open all or some of their presents on Christmas Eve, depending on evolving family traditions, logistics, and the age of the children involved; for example, adults might open their presents on Christmas Eve and minor children on Christmas morning, or everyone might open their gifts on Christmas morning. Others follow the tradition of opening family-exchanged gifts on Christmas Eve night, followed by opening of the presents Santa brought on Christmas morning. Children are normally allowed to play with their new toys and games afterwards.\n\nThe traditional Christmas dinner usually features either roasted turkey with stuffing (sometimes called dressing), ham, or roast beef. Potatoes, squash, roasted vegetables and cranberry sauce are served along with tonics and sherries. A variety of sweet pastry and egg nog sprinkled with cinnamon and nutmeg are served in the United States. Certain dishes such as casseroles and desserts are prepared with a family recipe (usually kept a secret). Sometimes, families also partake in a religious tradition, such as the consumption of a Christmas wafer in Christian families of European ancestry. Fruits, nuts, cheeses and chocolates are enjoyed as snacks.\n\nOther traditions include a special church service on the Sunday before Christmas and Midnight Mass on Christmas Eve. Candlelight services are held earlier in the evening for families with children. A re-enactment of the Nativity of Jesus called a Nativity play is another tradition.\n\nChristmas-related tourist attractions, such as the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree and elaborate animated department store Christmas windows in New York City are heavily visited by tourists from all over the world. Christmas music can be heard in the background. The Mormon Tabernacle Choir is one whose annual carol singing is well-recognized. Christmas symphony orchestra and choral presentation such as Handel's \"Messiah\" and performances of \"The Nutcracker\" ballet are attended. Local radio stations may temporarily switch format to play exclusively Christmas music, some going to an all-Christmas format as early as mid-October. A few television stations broadcast a Yule Log without interruption for several hours. News broadcasts and talk shows feature Christmas-themed segments, emphasizing fellowship and goodwill among neighbors. Of particular note is the observance of Christmas for military families of soldiers and sailors serving abroad, on both sides of the Canada–U.S. border. The Los Angeles Lakers have made it a tradition, since they relocated from Minneapolis prior to the 1960-61 NBA season, to have a home game on Christmas. As of 2015, the NBA now schedules five games on Christmas, usually including classic rivalry games as well as a rematch of the previous season's NBA Finals.\n\nChristmas for El Salvador still carries a strong meaning that brings families together. Despite the business on the streets and the red, green and white colors flooding the environment, Salvadoran people try to honor what they consider to be the true meaning of Christmas, the birth of Jesus.\nIn El Salvador children celebrate Christmas by playing with firecrackers, fountains, such as the small \"volcancitos\" (\"little volcanos\") and sparklers, \"estrellitas\" (\"little stars\"). Teenagers and young adults display bigger fireworks or Roman Candles. Families also have parties in which they dance and eat. \nSanta Claus is known for appearing in TV and print ads, but people ask children if they already wrote a letter to little baby Jesus. Traditional Salvadoran Christmas dishes are sauteed turkey sandwiches in a baguette with lettuce and radishes, Salvadoran Tamales, and sweet bread for dessert. Drinks include hot chocolate, pineapple juice, Salvadoran horchata, Cherry Salvadoran horchata, and coffee. At 12:00 a.m. on December 25 everyone gathers around the Christmas tree and opens their presents.\n\nOn Christmas in Guatemala, people dress up in an ornamental hat, called a \"Puritina\", and dance in a line. As with much of the country's culture, the celebration includes Spanish and Mayan elements.\n\nChristmas Day on December 25 is a national holiday in Brazil. But because Brazil lies in the Southern Hemisphere, Brazilians celebrate Christmas in the summer. In the small cities in the entire country, as well as in the largest cities, like São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Recife, Salvador, Fortaleza, Curitiba, Porto Alegre, Brasília, Manaus, Belém, Natal and Belo Horizonte, the celebrations resemble in many ways the traditions in Europe and North America, with the Christmas tree, the exchanging of gifts and Christmas cards, the decoration of houses and buildings with electric lights and the nativity scene. Despite the warm tropical summer weather, some incongruences such as decorations with themes of winter and snow are not uncommon. In some cities like Guarapuava, there are decoration contests, when judges go to houses to look at the decorations, inside or outside of the house, and decide the most beautiful house. Christmas Eve is the most important day. Unlike in the North American and Anglo-Saxon tradition, Christmas takes action mainly near midnight, usually with big family dinners, opening of gifts and the celebration of the \"Missa do Galo\" (the rooster's mass) in churches throughout the nation.\n\nMany Brazilians decorate their homes with a Christmas Tree, there is no rule, the parents can decorate it by themselves as a surprise to the kids, or they can do it together. In addition to the Christmas tree, many families set up a Nativity scene as the main decoration. Nativity scenes are very popular in Brazil, and can be seen everywhere including churches and popular places around the town. Like many other countries, Christmas dinner in Brazil is normally served late in the evening on Christmas Eve around 10 or 11 p.m. The meal often includes farofa stuffing, assortments of fruit, fried cod, and roast turkey with a dessert called \"rabanada\". Along with their meals, Brazilians typically drink champagne, wine, and fruit punch. Typically after they eat, many Brazilians attend a Midnight Mass service or watch the Pope's television broadcast celebration of \"Midnight Mass in Rome\" with family and friends.\n\nChristmas is a public holiday in Colombia and is primarily a religious celebration. Presents are brought by \"El Niño Jesus / Niño Dios\" (Baby Jesus).\n\nWhile Christmas decorations may be put up as early as the beginning of November, the unofficial start of Colombian Christmas festivities takes place on December 7, Día de las Velitas, or \"Day of the Candles.\" At night, the streets, sidewalks, balconies, porches, and driveways are decorated with candles and paper lanterns, which illuminate cities and towns in a yellow glow to honor the Immaculate Conception on the following day, December 8. In many cities, and even in small rural towns, neighborhoods get together and decorate their whole neighborhood or street, turning streets into virtual \"tunnels of light.\" Many radio stations and local organizations hold contests for the best display of lights, making the competition for the best light show a serious event. The city of Medellín has become a popular tourist destination during the holiday season because of its Christmas lights. Activities such as musical events and firework displays are planned by cities and held during this time. Individually launched fireworks were a common item during the Christmas season in Colombia, often going on at any time of the day in many cities. However, a recent ban has decreased the individual use of fireworks, and now only cities or towns are able to hold firework displays.\n\nDecember 16 is the first day of the Christmas Novena, a devotion consisting of prayer said on nine successive days, the last one held on Christmas Eve. The Novena is promoted by the Catholic Church as a staple of Christmas, and is very similar to the posadas celebrated in Mexico. It is a call for an understanding of the religious meaning of Christmas, and a way to counter the commercialism of the Christmas season. Individual traditions concerning the Novena may vary, but most families set up a \"pesebre\" (manger scene), sing religious Christmas carols called villancicos accompanied by tambourines, bells, and other simple percussion instruments, and read verses from the Bible as well as an interpretation which may change from year to year. Novenas serve as beautiful religious gatherings as well as learning environments for young children since kids have a central and active role in the celebration of the Novenas (they read prayers, sing, and play instruments guided by their family). From December 16 to 24, games called \"aguinaldos\" are played after having made a \"pinky promise\" deciding the prize for the winner and the punishment for the loser. The games include \"Hablar y no contestar\" (Talk but don't answer), \"Dé pero no reciben\" (Give but don't receive), \"Pajita en boca\" (Straw in the mouth), \"Tres pies\" (Three feet), \"Beso robado\" (Stolen kisses), and \"Si y al no\" (Yes or no). Churches offer dawn and nightly masses during the nine days of the novena, culminating with the Misa de Gallo (Rooster's Mass) on Christmas Eve at midnight.\n\nChristmas Eve is the most important day of Christmas in Colombia. Families and friends get together to pray the last Novena and wait until midnight to open the presents, parties are held until sunrise on Christmas Day, kids stay up late playing with their new presents, and fireworks fill the skies. Families gather around meals, music, and singing. Because Christmas Eve is the most important day, little occurs on December 25. Families join Christmas Day mass although it is not nearly as festive as Christmas Eve.\n\nThe \"Dia de los Santos Inocentes\", or the Day of the Innocents, falls in the Christmas season, on December 28. The day commemorates the innocent infants (called the innocent ones) who were said to have been killed by King Herod in fear of the power of the newborn baby, Jesus. January 6, the day of the Revelation of the Magi (Epiphany), is called \"Reyes Magos\" (from The Three Magi), used to be a day of gift giving, but is celebrated less now since gifts are given mostly around Christmas Eve today. Some families still give presents, and it is also the day when godparents give Christmas presents.\n\nIn Venezuela, Christmas is celebrated as a religious occasion. As in Colombia, the presents are brought by \"El Niño Jesus\" (Baby Jesus) instead of \"Papá Noél\" (Santa Claus), that still has an important role during this season.\n\nThe unofficial start of the Christmas festivities is after the celebrations of \"Feria de la Chinita\", the second half of November. The origin of this festival is the cult to Virgin Mary of Chiquinquirá, when various religious activities, processions, and music in the typical \"Gaita style\" to honor \"La Chinita\" (nickname of this Virgin). This event takes place in the Zulia Region, specifically in Maracaibo (the regional capital). After this, other cities join in the festivities and many activities take place including musical events and firework displays.\n\nIn many cities, small rural towns and neighborhoods get together for the \"patinatas\" night festivals where children go and play with skateboards, roller blades and bicycles. These events are usually sponsored by the local church, where neighbors organize themselves and sell typical Christmas food, hot chocolate, hallaca, cookies, etc. Also still in some neighborhoods there is the \"Parranda\" where people go from one house to house with music and Christmas songs. The singers stops at neighbors' houses to get some food and drinks. Also in the Venezuelan Andes there is the same tradition of this kind of event but they carry an image of \"baby Jesus\" and this is called \"Paradura del Niño.\" Children write request letters to Baby Jesus. The presents are sent by Baby Jesus at midnight, and most people have a party, which goes on until sunrise.\n\nJunkanoo festivals are held from Christmas Day morning until sunrise on December 27 after Boxing Day and held again on New Year's Day. It is a carnival featuring parading bands in colorful costumes, singing, dancing, and decorations.\n\nBahamian Christmas foods include black cake, imported apples, pepper pot, pickled onions and ham. Drinks like ginger-beer, sorrel, mauby, and sweet potato fly are served on Christmas.\n\nCuba had a long tradition of celebrating Christmas. Families used to gather at the dining table, and used to go to mass after dinner.\nThe Communist Regime led by Fidel Castro abolished the paid Christmas holiday in 1969, citing that workers were needed to continue the sugar harvest. In 1998, the Regime declared December 25 a leisure day, as requested by Pope John Paul II as a condition to visit the country. It is a one-day public holiday and it is celebrated only in the evening.\n\nRadio stations play Christmas carols as early as October, reggae style and some international. Jamaicans paint their houses and hang new curtains for Christmas. Pepper lights, the local name for Christmas lights, go up even on trees.\n\nJunkanoo or John Canoe is a traditional Christmas celebration in Jamaica, influenced by African ancestors. This includes street dancing and a great parade through the streets with Jamaicans dressed in colorful masquerade costumes in which masks are worn.\n\nThe traditional Jamaican Christmas meal includes ackee, saltfish, breadfruit, fried plantains, boiled bananas, freshly squeezed fruit juice and tea for breakfast; chicken, curried goat, stewed oxtail, rice and gungo peas for dinner. For dessert, sorrel drink and a Jamaican rum fruitcake along with red wine are served in many homes.\n\nMany people attend church for Christmas Eve or Christmas morning worship service.\n\nSometimes on Christmas Eve people or children to go the Grand Market where you walk with family and friends and buy whatever you want and you go home 2:00 or 3:00 am Christmas Day.\n\nSome British Christmas traditions have stayed in Jamaica, like Father Christmas, roast beef or lamb dinners, Boxing Day, etc.\n\nIn countries of Central Europe (for this purpose, roughly defined as the German-speaking countries of Germany, Austria and Switzerland as well as the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary and possibly other places) the main celebration date for the general public is Christmas Eve (December 24). The day is usually a fasting day; in some places children are told they'll see a \"golden pig\" if they hold fast until after dinner. When the evening comes preparation of Christmas Dinner starts. Traditions concerning dinner vary from region to region, for example, in Poland, Czech Republic, and Slovakia, the prevailing meal is fried carp with potato salad and fish (or cabbage) soup. However, in some places the tradition is porridge with mushrooms (a modest dish), and elsewhere the dinner is exceptionally rich, with up to 12 dishes. This in fact reveals that when Christmas comes around all the kids get presents from neighbours and house guest. Even the house pet got a little something to gnaw on.\n\nAfter the dinner comes the time for gifts. Children usually find their gifts under the Christmas Tree, with name stickers. An interesting example of complicated history of the region is the \"fight\" between Christmas beings. During communism, when countries of Central Europe were under Soviet influence, communist authorities strongly pushed Russian traditional \"Ded Moroz\" (\"Grandfather Frost\") in the place of Little Jesus won. Now Santa Claus is attacking, by means of advertising and Hollywood film production. Many people, Christians as well as people with just a Christian background, go to Roman Catholic midnight mass celebration.\n\nOther common attributes of Christmas in Central Europe include Christmas trees, mistletoe, Christmas garlands, and Bethlehem cribs.\n\nIn many areas of Central Europe, St. Nicholas (Hungarian: Mikulás, Czech: Mikuláš, Polish: Mikołaj, Slovak: Mikuláš, Slovene: Miklavž), or Santa Claus, does not come for Christmas. He visits families earlier, on the dawn of St. Nicholas Day on December 6, and for the well-behaved children he has presents and candy-bags to put into their well polished shoes that were set in the windows the previous evening. Although he neither parks his sleigh on rooftops nor climbs chimneys, his visits are usually accompanied by a diabolic-looking servant named Krampusz (in Austria, Slovenia, and Croatia: Krampus, in Czech and Slovak regions he is simply \"čert\", i.e. devil, without any name) who gives golden coloured birches for so called badly behaved children. Actually all children get both gifts and golden birches (Hungarian: \"virgács\") in their shoes, no matter how they behaved themselves.\n\nIn some German-speaking communities, in the German-speaking Europe; particularly in Catholic regions of western and southern Germany, Switzerland, Austria, South Tyrol and Liechtenstein, as well as in other Catholic regions of Central Europe, the \"Christkind\" (literally \"Christ child\") brings the presents on the evening of December 24 (Holy Evening or Heiliger Abend). The Christkind is invisible; thus he is never seen by anyone. However, he rings a bell just before he leaves in order to let children know that the Christmas tree and the presents are ready.\n\nIt is a tradition to lavishly decorate a Christmas tree in the days directly before Christmas or on the morning of Christmas Eve. On late Christmas Eve, after the bell rings, the tree is shown to the children and presents are exchanged.\n\nIn Protestant churches, there is a service in the late afternoon intended to immediately precede the Christmas Eve meal and the exchanging of gifts. This service, called \"Christvesper\", consists most often of scriptural readings, the Christmas Gospel from Luke 2, a \"Krippenspiel\" (nativity play), favourite Christmas carols and festive music for organ and choirs. In some regions the tradition of \"Quempas singing\" is still popular. Some Lutheran churches also celebrate a candlelight service at midnight besides the Christmas Vespers in the afternoon or early evening.\n\nMany Catholic churches also have a first Mass of Christmas, called \"Christmette\", on \"Heiliger Abend\" about 4 p.m. for the children and parents to attend before the families return home for their meal. The crib is a very important part of the celebrations in Catholic areas especially Bavaria.\n\nIn the largely Catholic Austria, Christmas markets are a long-standing tradition. In Vienna, for instance, the market is held in the large square in front of City Hall. Innsbruck opens its romantic Christmas market in the narrow medieval square at the foot of the Golden Roof. In Salzburg, the Christmas market takes over the square in front of the Cathedral with its picturesque stalls, while the tree vendors occupy Residenzplatz on the side of the huge Cathedral. However almost every small town has its own Christmas market.\n\nIn Austria, Christmas trees play a very important part of Christmas celebrations. Every town sets up its own huge tree on the main square all decorated with candles, ornaments and candies and frequently there will be an extra one, adorned with bread crumbs, for the birds. In families the tree is decorated with gold and silver ornaments or stars made out of straw, sweets and candy wrapped in tinfoil, gilded nuts, etc.\n\nThe feast of St Nicholas marks the beginning of Christmas in Austria. On Christmas Eve (December 24) the tree is lit for the first time and the whole family gathers to sing Christmas carols like \"Silent Night, Holy Night\". Gifts that are placed under the tree are opened after dinner on Christmas Eve. Austrian Christmas tradition has it that it is the Christ Child himself who decorates the Christmas tree on Christmas Eve and brings the children their Christmas presents, and it is to him that their letters and wish lists are addressed in the weeks before Christmas. The Christmas Eve dinner is the main event of the night often served with fried carp. The famous sachertorte and different kinds of chocolates are served as dessert. The Austrians also have special crescent shaped cookies served during Christmas time.\n\nIn Germany Christmas traditions vary by region. Till the reformation Saint Nicholas' Day, December 6, Saint Nicholas was the main provider of Christmas presents. Nikolaus still puts goodies in children's shoes on that day. Sometimes St. Nicholas visits children in kindergarten, schools or at public events. They have to recite a short poem or sing a song in order to get sweets or a small gift. \"Knecht Ruprecht\" (the servant Ruprecht) – dressed in dark clothes with devil-like traits (usually noted as a long, bright red tongue and with a stick or a small whip in the hand) – sometimes accompanies St. Nicholas. His duty is to punish those children who haven't behaved during the year. Usually he doesn't have much to do. He merely stands near St. Nicholas as a warning to be good and polite. Nikolaus as well for some Glühwein for adults, there are some traditions connected with local firefighters, riders associations and church congregations.\n\nThe Sorbs, a minority in Saxony and parts of Brandenbuerg with a language similar to Polish, have some specific traditions. E.g. in Jänschwalde, the \"Bescherkind\" Janšojski bog (\"presents kid\") is visiting the neighbors, a girl dressed in local costume and veil and goes around with two companions at the Wednesday before Christmas. It provides smaller presents like sweets, similar to the Nikolaus and provides blessings, stays however silent. Another tradition in Saxony is related to the Wooden toymaking in the Ore Mountains, especially Seiffen provides Christmas related decorations like Christmas pyramid and toys around the year. Christmas letters may be addressed e.g. to Engelskirchen (Angel's church) or Himmelpforten (Heaven's gate) or some other in municipalities with matching names. After privatization, Deutsche Post kept the tradition of dedicated Christmas offices, one in each state, answering letters and requests from children.\n\nCurrently the actual Christmas gift-giving (German: \"Bescherung\") usually takes place on Christmas Eve. This tradition was introduced by Reformator, Martin Luther, as he as of the opinion that one should put the emphasis on Christ's birth and not on a saint's day and do away with the connotation that gifts have to be earned by good behavior. The gifts should be seen as a symbol for the gift of God's grace in Christ. This tradition quickly became common in predominantly Catholic regions as well.\n\nGifts may be brought by the \"Weihnachtsmann\" (translation, \"Christmas man\"), who resembles either St. Nicholas or the American Santa Claus, or by \"Christkindl\", a sprite-like child who may or may not represent the baby Jesus. Till 1930, there was sort of south north divide between the realms of southern and silesian Christkind and Nordic Weihnachtsmann. After the gifts are opened the children often stay up as late as they like, often till the early hours of the morning.\n\nThe Christmas Tree is first put up and decorated on the morning of the 24th. The gifts are then placed under the tree. Christmas services in the church serve as well to exchange greetings with neighbors and friends. After an evening meal one of the parents usually goes into the room where the tree is standing, lights the candles and rings a little bell. Then the children are allowed to go into the candlelit room. In many families it is still a custom to sing Christmas songs around the tree before opening up the presents. Some families attend a midnight church service \"Christmette\" after the evening meal and gift-giving.\n\nThe culinary feast either takes place at supper on Christmas Eve or on the first day of Christmas. Traditions vary from region to region; carp is eaten in many parts of the country. Potato salad with frankfurter or wiener-sausages is popular in some families. Another simple meal which some families favor, especially in regions where Christmas Eve still has the character of a fast day, is vegetable or pea soup. In some regions, especially in Schleswig-Holstein where Danish influence is noticeable, a roasted duck or goose filled with plums, apples and raisins is family tradition. In other regions, especially in Mecklenburg and Pomerania, many families prefer kale with boiled potatoes, special sausages and ham. Many families have developed new traditions for themselves and eat such meals as meat fondue or raclette. In almost all families in all parts of Germany you find a wide variety of Christmas cookies baked according to recipes typical for the family and the region.\n\n\"Lüttenweihnachten\" describes the hunting and forestry custom of providing a Christmas tree with food decorated for animals.\n\nChristmas Eve (December 24) is celebrated as \"Štědrý den/Štedrý deň\", which means \"Generous Day\", when the gifts are given in the evening. The December 25 and 26 are Public holidays in the Czech Republic and in Slovakia, but \"Vánoce/Vianoce\" (Christmas), is most commonly associated with the 24th.\n\nAccording to tradition, gifts are brought by \"Ježíšek/Ježiško\", or \"baby Jesus\". Fish soup and breaded roasted carp with special homemade potato salad are a traditional dish for the dinner. In Slovakia, before eating, everyone exchanges Christmas greetings with each other by sharing a piece of Christmas wafer (Oblátky) with honey and walnuts. Traditional dinner depends on region, but common Christmas dinner is cabbage soup (Kapustnica) or lentil soup and breaded roasted carp with special homemade potato salad or hand made gnocchi with poppy (šúľanky s makom). The gifts are surreptitiously placed under the Christmas tree (usually a spruce or pine and lately fir), usually just before or during dinner. Children have to wait for the ringing of a Christmas bell (one of the decorations on the Christmas tree) – the sign that \"Ježíšek/Ježiško\" (little Jesus) has just passed by – to run for the presents. That happens at the end of their Christmas dinner. There is a rich tradition of hard baked Christmas sweets (\"Cukroví/vianočné koláče\").\n\nOther Czech and Slovak Christmas traditions involve predictions for the future. Apples are always cut crosswise: if a perfect star appears in the core, the next year will be successful, distorted star means a bad year or illness, while a cross may suggest death. Girls throw shoes over their shoulders – if the toe points to the door, the girl will get married soon. Another tradition requires pouring some molten lead into water and guessing a message from its shapes.\n\nIn Catholic Slovakia, the tradition of Jasličkári involves young men dressed as shepherds or angels visiting their neighbors and presenting recitations and songs about the story of the birth of Jesus.\n\nThe Christmas and gift-giving season starts relatively early compared to other cultures, with the Santa-like figure, or Hungarian version of Saint Nicholas, Mikulás (or Szent Miklós) traditionally visiting the homes of Hungarian children on the night of December 5, on the eve of Saint Nicholas Feast Day, December 6.\n\nAlthough the role of gift-giver on Christmas Day itself is assigned to the Christ Child, on the night before St. Nicholas Day Hungarian children traditionally place a boot on their windowsill waiting for Mikulás to come by and fill it with treats. In Hungary, celebrations begin with Christmas tree decoration and gift packaging during daytime on December 24, then comes a family dinner with traditional Christmas meals. In some parts of Hungary, a traditional supper called fish soup \"halászlé\" is served at Christmas Eve meal, although it is also consumed at other times of the year. The day is otherwise a fast-day.\n\nIn the evening (Christmas Eve, in Hungarian: Szenteste) the Angel or the Little (Baby) Jesus (Hungarian: Kisjézus or Jézuska) delivers the presents. This is the most intimate moment of Christmas, featuring warmly lit Christmas tree and candles, soft Christmas music, family singing of Christmas or religious songs and gift pack openings. There is also a popular folk custom during December and especially on Christmas Eve, in which children or adults present the birth of Jesus. The custom is called 'playing Bethlehem' (Hungarian: Betlehemezés), and it is an acting performance, where the 'actors' are wearing costumes, and telling stories about the three kings, the shepherds, Mary, Joseph and of course the birth of the Holy Child. A Christmas crib and a church are used as the scene. The actors go from house to house, and they receive gifts for their performance.\n\nIn the largely Roman Catholic Poland, Christmas Eve begins with a day of fasting and then a night of feasting. The traditional Christmas meal is known as Wigilia (\"The Vigil\"), and being invited to attend a Wigilia dinner with a family is considered a high honour.\nOn the night of Christmas Eve, the appearance of the first star in the sky is watched for, in remembrance of the Star of Bethlehem, that it has been given an affectionate name of \"the little star\" or Gwiazdka (the female counterpart of St. Nicholas). On that evening, children watch the sky anxiously hoping to be the first to cry out, \"The star has come!\" After the first star appearance is declared, the family members sit down to a dinner table.\n\nAccording to tradition, bits of hay are spread beneath the tablecloth as a reminder that Christ was born in a manger. Others partake in the practice of placing money under the table cloth for each guest, in order to wish for prosperity in the coming year. The dinner contains twelve dishes, one for each Apostle. In many homes, an extra place setting is set. The empty setting is symbolically left at the table for a lonely wanderer who may be in need of food, an angel, the Baby Jesus or the Holy Spirit should appear to share the feast.\n\nBefore eating, everyone exchanges Christmas greetings with each other. The supper begins with the breaking of the opłatek. By sharing a piece of Christmas wafer (\"Opłatki\"), when everyone at the table breaks off a piece and eats it as a symbol of their unity with Christ. The opłatek is usually blessed by the presiding Bishop, and stamped with a religious image, such as the nativity scene, they then share a piece with each family member. A tradition exists among some families to serve twelve different dishes at Wigilia symbolizing the Twelve Apostles, or perhaps, an odd number of dishes for good luck (usually five, seven, or nine). Some practice the superstition that an even number of people must be seated around the table.\n\nA traditional Wigilia supper in Poland includes fried carp and barszcz (beetroot soup) with uszka (translated as \"little ears\", also known as meatless ravioli). The most common dishes are fish soup, with potato salad, pierogi, gołąbki filled with kasza, pickled herring and fruit kompot.\nCarp provides a main component of the Christmas Eve meal across Poland; carp fillet, carp in aspic etc. Universal Polish Christmas foods are pierogi as well as some herring dishes, herring fillets, herring in aspic and for dessert, makowiec or noodles with poppy seed. Often, there is a compote of dry fruits for a drink. etc. Dishes beside fish are usually cabbage-, forest mushroom- (like boletus) and poppyseed-based, with herring being very important. After supper the Star Man arrives attended by the Star Boys. They are dressed as Wise Men or animals or other figures. The Star Man examines the children in their catechism and rewards them with small presents if they do well, even if they need a bit of coaching. The Star Boys sing carols and are given a treat for their help. The feast begins with the appearance of the first star. The meal is followed by the exchange of gifts.\nThe remainder of the evening is given to stories and songs around the Christmas tree. In some areas of the country, children are taught that \"The Little Star\" brings the gifts. As presents are unwrapped, carollers may walk from house to house receiving treats along the way.\n\nChristmas Eve ends with Pasterka, the Midnight Mass at the local church. The tradition commemorates the arrival of the Three Wise Men to Bethlehem and their paying of respect and bearing witness to the new born Messiah. The custom of Christmas night liturgy was introduced in the Christian churches after the second half of the 5th century. In Poland that custom arrived together with the coming of Christianity. The next day (December 25) begins with the early morning mass followed by daytime masses. According to scripture, the Christmas Day masses are interchangeable allowing for greater flexibility in choosing the religious services by individual parishioners.\n\nThe following day is often spent visiting friends.\n\nThe giftbearer varies. In some regions it is Święty Mikołaj (Saint Nicholas), in others Święty Mikołaj gives his gifts on December 6 and the giftbringer of the Christmas Eve is Gwiazdor (\"star man\"), Aniołek (\"little angel\") or Dzieciątko (\"baby Jesus\").\n\nChristmas (Romanian: \"Crăciun\") in Romania is on December 25 and is generally considered the second most important religious Romanian holiday after Easter. In Moldova, although Christmas is celebrated on December 25 like in Romania, January 7 is also recognized as an official holiday. Celebrations begin with the decoration of the Christmas tree during daytime on December 24, and in the evening (Christmas Eve, in Romanian: Ajunul Crăciunului) \"Moş Crăciun\" (Father Christmas) delivers the presents.\n\nThe singing of carols is a very important part of Romanian Christmas festivities. On the first day of Christmas, many carolers walk through the streets of the towns and villages, holding a star made of cardboard and paper on which are depicted various scenes from the Bible. Romanian tradition has the smallest children going from house to house, singing carols and reciting poems and legends during the whole Christmas season. The leader of the group carries with him a star made of wood, covered with metal foil and decorated with bells and coloured ribbons. An image of the Nativity is painted on the star's centre, and this piece of handiwork is attached to the end of a broom or other long stick.\n\nRomanian food served during the holidays is a hearty multi-coursed meal, most of which consists of pork (organs, muscle, and fat). This is mainly a symbolic gesture for St. Ignatius of Antioch.\n\nSince the 1880s, the Christmas customs of the Eastern Slavic countries have included a similar character known as \"Ded Moroz\" (\"Grandfather Frost\"). According to legend, he travels in a magical \"sanki\" — a decorated sleigh drawn by reindeer (or three white horses). With his young, blond assistant \"Snegurochka\" (the \"Snow Maiden\", said to be his granddaughter) at his side, he visits homes and gives gifts to good children (not true for former Yugoslavian countries). He only delivers presents to children while they are asleep, and unlike Santa, he does not travel down chimneys, coming instead to the front door of children's homes. It is traditional for children to leave food for Ded Moroz.\n\nThis Ded Moroz (in Russia, \"Ded Moroz\") is not identified nor in any way associated with Saint Nicholas of Myra (feast day, December 6), who is very widely revered in Eastern Europe for his clerical and charitable works as a bishop. In all likelihood, Ded Moroz is actually in Slavic tradition like Santa Claus, any connection to the original saint having long since disappeared.\n\nOn calendars in Georgia, Christmas (, \"shoba\") is celebrated on January 7 (December 25 on the Julian calendar). It is traditional in Georgia to go on Alilo (a modified pronunciation of Alleluia), a mass walk in the streets, dressed in special clothing to celebrate and congratulate each other. Most members of the Alilo march are children and they are given sweets by the adults. The Alilo carols vary across the provinces of Georgia. In most songs these words are used: \"ოცდახუთსა დეკემბერსა, ქრისტე იშვა ბეთლემსაო'\" (\"otsdakhutsa dekembersa qriste ishva betlemsao\") – \"on 25th December Christ was born in Bethlehem\". A local variant of the Christmas tree, called Chichilaki, is made of soft wooden material with curled branches. Sometimes it is hazelnut branch which is carved into a Tree of Life-like shape and decorated with fruits and sweets. The Western custom of a Christmas tree (\"nadzvis khe\") is also popular and has been imported through Russia. The Georgian equivalent of \"Santa Claus\" is known as \"tovlis papa\" (or \"tovlis babua\" in western Georgian dialects), literally meaning a \"Grandfather snow\", and is traditionally portrayed with long white beard, dressed in national costume \"chokha\" and wearing a fur cloak \"nabadi\".\n\nAs in some other Eastern Orthodox countries, and due to the 13-day difference between the newer Gregorian, and older Julian Calendars, Christmas is celebrated on January 7. Unlike its Western counterparts, Christmas is mainly a religious event in Russia. On Christmas Eve (January 6), there are several long services, including the Royal Hours and Vespers combined with the Divine Liturgy. The family will then return home for the traditional Christmas Eve \"Holy Supper\", which consists of 12 dishes, one to honor each of the Twelve Apostles. Devout families will then return to church for the \"всеночная\" All Night Vigil. Then again, on Christmas Morning, for the \"заутренняя\" Divine Liturgy of the Nativity. Since 1992 Christmas has become a national holiday in Russia, as part of the ten-day holiday at the start of every new year.\n\nDuring the Soviet period, religious celebrations were discouraged by the officially atheist state. Christmas tree and related celebrations were gradually eradicated after the October Revolution. In 1935, in a surprising turn of state politics, the Christmas tradition was adopted as part of the secular New Year celebration. These include the decoration of a tree, or \"ёлка\" (spruce), festive decorations and family gatherings, the visit by gift-giving \"Ded Moroz\" (Дед Мороз \"Grandfather Frost\") and his granddaughter, \"Snegurochka\" (Снегурочка \"The Snowmaiden\"). Many of these were brought to Russia by Peter the Great after his Western travels in the late 17th century. \n\n\"Sviata Vecheria\" or \"Holy Supper\" is the central tradition of the Christmas Eve celebrations in Ukrainian homes and takes place in most parts of the country on January 6. In Western Ukraine, especially in Carpathian Ruthenia, due to historical multi-culturism, Christmas can be observed twice—on December 25 and January 7, often irrespective of whether the family belongs to Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, the (Roman) Catholic Church, one of the Ukrainian Orthodox Churches, or one of the Protestant denominations. The Western Ukrainian tradition of two Christmas celebrations, since 2017, are also celebrated nationwide as well. \n\nWhen the children see the first star in the eastern evening sky, which symbolizes the trek of the Three Wise Men, the Sviata Vechera may begin. In farming communities the head of the household now brings in a sheaf of wheat called the didukh which represents the importance of the ancient and rich wheat crops of Ukraine, the staff of life through the centuries. Didukh means literally \"grandfather spirit\" so it symbolizes the family's ancestors. In city homes a few stalks of golden wheat in a vase are often used to decorate the table. The dinner table sometimes has a few wisps of hay on the embroidered table cloth as a reminder of the manger in Bethlehem. A prayer is said and the father says the traditional Christmas greeting, \"Chrystos rodyvsya!\" which is translated to \"Christ is born!\", which is answered by the family with \"Slavite Yoho!\" which means \"Let us glorify him!\". In some families the Old Slavic form \"Сhrystos rozhdayetsya!\" is used. At the end of the Sviata Vechera the family often sings Ukrainian Christmas Carols. In many communities the old Ukrainian tradition of caroling is carried on by groups of young people and members of organizations and churches calling at homes and collecting donations.\n\nTraditionally, Christmas Day opens for Ukrainian families with attendance in church services (Mass, worship service or Divine Liturgy). Ukrainian churches offer services starting before midnight on Christmas Eve and on Christmas morning. Christmas supper, without Lenten restrictions, does not have as many traditions connected with it as Sviata Vechera. The old tradition in Ukraine of giving gifts to children on St. Nicholas Day, December 19, has generally been replaced by the Christmas date and it is the Father Frost who visits all the children in a sleigh pulled by only three reindeer. (In Western Ukraine the St. Nicholas Day is marked there on December 6.)\n\nIn much of Northern Europe Christmas is celebrated on December 24 and is referred to as \"Jul\" (see Yule), while December 25 is a relaxed day for visiting relatives. \"Yule\" may come from the Norse word hweol, jól, meaning wheel, and Old English géol. The Norse believed that the sun was a great wheel of fire that rolled towards and then away from the earth.\n\nDanes celebrate on December 24, which is referred to as \"Juleaften\" (literally \"Yule evening\"). An evening meal with the family consists of either roast pork, roast duck or roast goose and eaten with potatoes, plenty of gravy, and red cabbage or finely chopped kale boiled in butter. Also caramelized potatoes is an important part of the Dane's Christmas dinner. For dessert rice pudding is traditionally served – composed largely of whipped cream and accompanied by lashings of black cherry sauce. The rice pudding also contains chopped peeled almonds, and a single whole peeled almond. Whoever finds the whole almond will have good luck for the coming year, and the lucky finder is entitled to a small gift, \"Mandelgave\".\nAfter the meal is complete, the family gathers around the Christmas tree and sings Christmas songs and hymns while holding hands and dancing in circles, and may even tour the house, still holding hands and singing. When the singing is complete, traditions vary. In some traditions, the family will select one child to hand out the presents. All children take turns handing out presents in other traditions.\nAlternatively \"Santa Claus\", the Julemanden, will appear at the door in full costume with a large sack of presents over his shoulder. He will then distribute the presents, with the assistance of any children present, to their recipients. He should be offered suitable drink to keep him warm and cheerful on his onward journey, but do not expect loquacity – utterances are normally limited to loud and hearty laughs. Meanwhile, the presents are opened and this is followed by more snacks, candy, chips and, sometimes, a traditional Christmas drink called \"Gløgg.\"\n\nThe Danish are somewhat famous for their \"Julefrokost,\" literally meaning \"Christmas lunch\", which includes various traditional Danish dishes, potentially accompanied by beer and Snaps. These Julefrokoster are popular and held within families, as well as by companies and other social groups. They would traditionally have taken place leading up to Christmas, but due to time constraints and stress during the Christmas month they are nowadays commonly held during November and January as well. The family Julefrokoster however are normally held on Christmas Day and/or The Second day of Christmas (December 26).\n\nAnother more recent Danish tradition is the concept of television \"Julekalendere\", special Christmas-themed, advent calendar-type television programmes with a daily episode shown on each of the first 24 days of December, thus culminating on \"Juleaften\". Several television stations produce their own, most, but not all of which are targeted at child viewers. Some of the television advent calendars become extremely popular and go on to be reprised in subsequent years.\n\nIn Denmark, Santa Claus is known as Julemanden (literally \"the Yule Man\") and is said to arrive in a sleigh drawn by reindeer, with presents for the children. He is assisted with his Yuletide chores by elves known as julenisser (or simply nisser), who are traditionally believed to live in attics, barns or similar places. In some traditions, to maintain the favour and protection of these nisser, children leave out saucers of milk or rice pudding or other treats for them and are delighted to find the food gone on Christmas morning.\n\nIn the weeks preceding Christmas or \"jõulud\", children place a slipper in their windows and receive a piece of candy or some other sweets from visiting elves (\"päkapikud\"). Estonians celebrate Christmas on December 24, which is referred to as \"jõululaupäev\" (\"Christmas Saturday\") and is by act of Parliament a public holiday in Estonia. Each year on this day, the President of Estonia declares the Christmas Peace and attends a Christmas service. The tradition was initiated by the order of Queen Christina of Sweden in the 17th century. Estonian children are visited by \"jõuluvana\" (\"Santa Claus\") on Christmas Eve, and must sing songs or recite Christmas poems before receiving their gifts.\n\nThe evening meal typically includes pork with sauerkraut or Estonian sauerkraut (\"mulgikapsad\"), baked potatoes, white and blood sausage, potato salad with red beet, and pāté. For dessert, Estonians eat gingerbread (\"piparkoogid\") and marzipan. The most highly regarded drinks during this time have been beer and mulled wine or \"glögi\" and \"hõõgvein\" (\"glowing wine\"). Estonians leave the leftover food from Christmas dinner on the table overnight, in hopes that the spirits of family, friends, and loved ones will visit and also have something to eat. It is also customary to visit graveyards and leave candles for the deceased.\n\nDecember 25 or \"jõulupüha\" is a relaxed day for visiting relatives.\n\nChristmas is an extensively prepared celebration centering on the family and home, although it has a religious dimension also. The Christmas season starts from December or even in late November, when shops began advertising potential Christmas gifts. Christmas decorations and songs become more prominent as Christmas nears, and children count days to Christmas with Advent calendars. Schools and some other places have the day before Christmas Eve (\"aatonaatto\", December 23) as a holiday, but at the latest on the Christmas Eve (\"jouluaatto\", December 24), shops close early and stay closed until December 26. The main Christmas festivities are held on Christmas Eve on December 24, while Christmas Day (\"joulupäivä\") and the following day (\"Tapaninpäivä\", \"St. Stephen's Day\") are mandatory public holidays in Finland Schools continue holidays up to the New Year.\n\nThe Declaration of Christmas Peace has been a tradition in Finland from the Middle Ages every year, except in 1939 due to the Winter War. It is a custom in many towns and cities. The most famous one of these declarations is on the Old Great Square of Turku, the former capital of Finland, at noon on Christmas Eve. It is broadcast on Finnish radio (since 1935) and television, and nowadays also in some foreign countries. The declaration ceremony begins with the hymn \"Jumala ompi linnamme\" (Martin Luther's \"A Mighty Fortress Is Our God\") by a band of the Finnish Navy and a male choir and continues with the Declaration of Christmas Peace read from a parchment roll, in both Finnish and Swedish, the country's two official languages:\n\nThe ceremony ends with trumpets playing the Finnish national anthem \"Maamme\" and \"Porilaisten marssi\", with the crowd usually singing when the band plays \"Maamme\". Recently, there is also a declaration of Christmas peace for forest animals in many cities and municipalities, so there is no hunting during Christmas.\n\nFinnish people clean their homes well before Christmas and prepare special treats for the festive season. A sheaf of grain, nuts and seeds are tied on a pole, which is placed in the garden for the birds to feed on. Spruce trees are cut or bought from a market and taken to homes on or a few days before Christmas Eve and are decorated. Candles are lit on the Christmas tree, which is traditionally decorated using apples and other fruit, candies, paper flags, cotton and tinsel, in addition to Christmas ornaments such as stars or baubles. Actual candles are no longer used, being replaced by incandescent or LED lamps. A star symbolizing the Star of Bethlehem is placed at the top of the tree. Just before the Christmas festivities begin, people usually take a Christmas sauna. The tradition is very old; unlike on normal days, when one would go to the sauna in the evening, on Christmas Eve it is done before sunset. This tradition is based on a pre-20th century belief that the spirits of the dead return and have a sauna at the usual sauna hours.\n\nAfterwards, they dress up in clean clothes for the Christmas dinner or joulupöytä, which is usually served between 5pm and 7pm, or traditionally with the appearance of the first star in the sky. The most traditional dish of the Finnish Christmas dinner is probably Christmas Ham, roast suckling pig or a roasted fresh ham, but some may prefer alternatives like turkey. Several sorts of casseroles, like rutabaga, carrot and potato casserole are traditional, and are almost always exclusively served on Christmas. Other traditional Christmas dishes include boiled codfish (soaked beforehand in a lye solution for a week to soften it) served snowy white and fluffy, pickled herring and vegetables. Prune jam pastries, plum or mixed fruit soup, rice porridge with cinnamon, sugar and cold milk, and sweets like chocolate are popular desserts. Christmas gifts are usually exchanged after Christmas Eve dinner. Children do not hang up stockings in Finland but \"Joulupukki\" visits the household, maybe with a \"tonttu\" to help him distribute the presents.\n\nChristmas Day services begin early at six in the morning and people visit families and reunions are arranged on this day.\n\nBoxing Day, or \"tapaninpäivä\" (St. Stephen's Day) is traditionally set aside for driving around the village (\"tapaninajot\"), to counterbalance the solemn and family-oriented part of Christmas.\n\nThe Christmas or Yule (Jól in Icelandic) celebration in Iceland starts four Sundays before Christmas proper, which begins on December 24 (Advent) and ends thirteen days later on January 6. Traditionally, one candle is lit each Sunday until four candles are lit on the 24th. At 6:00 pm Church bells ring to start the Christmas celebration. The religiously observant and/or traditional Icelanders will attend mass at this time while the secular Icelanders will begin their holiday meal immediately. After the meal is finished, they open gifts and spend the evening together. In Iceland people over the Yule holidays most often eat Most popular dishes are smoked lamb, ptarmigan and turkey. Pork is also very popular.\n\nThirteen days before December 24 the Yule Lads children will leave their shoes by the window so that the Yule Lads can leave small gifts in their shoes. The Yule Lads are the sons of two trolls living in the Icelandic mountains. Each of the Yule Lads is known for a different kind of mischief (for example slamming doors, stealing meat, stealing milk or eating the candles). The Yule Lads traditionally wear early Icelandic wool clothing but are now known for the more recognizable red and white suit.\n\nEach home typically sets up a Christmas tree indoors in the living room with most decorating it on December 11. In addition to the decorations, presents are put underneath the tree. It is also a tradition in many homes to boil skate on the 23rd. The day is called Saint Thorlak Mass (Þorláksmessa).\n\nDuring the holiday season, it is traditional for families to work together to bake small cookies to serve or give to guests. Most common are thin gingerbread cookies which are decorated in many different colors of glaze. Many families also follow the tradition of making Laufabrauð (Leafbread), which is a flat thin bread that is cut out using a special tool and folding technique.\n\nThe end of year is divided between two days – the Old Year's Day (Gamlársdagur) and the New Year's Day (Nýársdagur). At the night of the former and morning of the latter Icelanders shoot up fireworks blowing the old year away and welcoming the new one.\n\nThirteen days after the 24th Icelanders say goodbye to the Yule Lads and other mystical creatures such as elves and trolls. There are bonfires held throughout the country while the elves, Yule Lads, and Icelanders dance together before saying goodbye until the next Christmas.\n\nThe major day of celebration in Norway, as in most of Northern Europe, is December 24. Although it is legally a regular workday until 16:00, most stores close early. Church bells chime in the Christmas holiday between 17:00 and 18:00. In some families the Christmas story from Luke 2 will be read from the old family Bible. The main Christmas meal is served in the evening. Common main dishes include pork rib, \"pinnekjøtt\" (pieces of lamb rib steamed on a grid of birch wood). Many people also eat \"lutefisk\" or fresh, poached cod. Rice porridge is also popular (but most commonly served as an early lunch rather than for the main Christmas dinner), an almond is often hidden in the porridge, and the person who finds it wins a treat or small gift. In some parts of Norway it is common to place porridge outside (in a barn, outhouse or even in the forest) to please \"Nissen\". In many families, where the parents grew up with different traditions, two different main dishes are served to please everyone. If children are present (and they have behaved well the last year), \"Julenissen\" (Santa Claus) pays a visit, otherwise gifts are stored under the Christmas tree.\n\nFor a lot of Norwegians, especially families, television is an important part of the earlier hours of Christmas Eve. Many Norwegians do not feel the Christmas spirit until they have watched the Czech-German fairy tale \"Three Nuts for Cinderella\" (Norwegian title: \"Tre nøtter til Askepott\"), the Disney Christmas cavalcade \"From All of Us to All of You\" the Norwegian fairytale movie \"Reisen til Julestjernen\" or the comedy sketch \"Dinner for One\". Attending one of the many stage productions of \"Putti Plutti Pott and Santa's Beard\" is also a very popular tradition.\n\nDecember 25 is a very quiet and relaxed day. Church services are well attended. The old tradition of a very early morning service before breakfast has been replaced in most areas by a service in the later morning. Afterward many families get together for a large festive meal.\n\nDecember 26 is also a day of many festivities. Cinemas, night clubs and bars are full, and there are lots of private gatherings and parties, where all kinds of traditional Christmas cookies and sweets are enjoyed. Fatty, tasty dinners are also part of it. The time between Boxing Day and New Year's Eve is called romjul. During this time children in some parts of Norway dress up as \"nisser\" and go \"Julebukk\" – \"Christmas goat\" – in their neighbourhoods and sing Christmas carols to receive treats, much the same way as in the American Halloween. January 6 (13th day of Christmas) is commonly regarded as the end of Christmas, while some end Christmas on the 20th day, and some even at Candlemas.\n\nThe pre-Christian holiday of Yule, or \"jól\", was the most important holiday in Scandinavia and Northern Europe. Originally the observance of the winter solstice, and the rebirth of the sun, it brought about many practices that remain in the Advent and Christmas celebrations today. The Yule season was a time for feasting, drinking, gift-giving, and gatherings, but also the season of awareness and fear of the forces of the dark. Swedish Christmas celebrations begin with the first of Advent. Saint Lucy's Day (locally known as \"Luciadagen\") which is the first major Christmas celebration before Christmas itself. The eldest daughter arising early and wearing her Lucy garb of white robe, red sash, and a wire crown covered with whortleberry-twigs with nine lighted candles fastened in it awakens the family, singing \"Santa Lucia\", serving them coffee and saffron buns (St. Lucia buns), thus ushering in the Christmas season.\n\nSchools elect a Lucia and her maids among the students and a national Lucia is elected on national television from regional winners. The regional Lucias will visit shopping malls, old people's homes and churches, singing and handing out \"pepparkakor\" gingerbread cookies.\n\nBoys take part in the procession as well, playing different roles associated with Christmas. Some may be dressed in the same kind of white robe, but with a cone-shaped hat decorated with golden stars, called \"stjärngossar\" (star boys); some may be dressed up as \"tomtenissar\", carrying lanterns; and some may be dressed up as gingerbread men. They participate in the singing and also have a song or two of their own, usually \"Staffan Stalledräng\", which tells the story about Saint Stephen, the first Christian martyr, caring for his five horses.\nElectric candles and glowing stars are placed in almost every window in the month of December in Sweden. Although December 25 (\"juldagen\") is a Swedish public holiday, December 24 is the day when Santa Claus \"Jultomte\" (or simply \"Tomte\") brings the presents. Although not a public holiday, Christmas Eve is a \"de facto\" holiday in the sense that most workplaces are closed, and those who work, for instance in shops or care homes, get extra wages as a compensation. (\"See also: Public holidays in Sweden for further explanation of this concept.\")\n\nThe Jultomte was originally a small invisible Christmas house gnome or dwarf from the Nordic mythology, who watched over the house and its inhabitants. An old superstition still calls for feeding the Tomte on Christmas Eve with a small bowl of porridge. If a bowl of porridge is not laid out for him somewhere in or outside the house, he will bring bad luck to everyone in the house the next year. The modern \"Tomten\", nowadays is a version of Santa Claus in red cloth and white beard, except that he doesn't enter the house through the chimney, but knocks on the door and asks \"finns det några snälla barn här?\" (\"are there any nice children here?\")\n\nChristmas is, as everywhere else, an occasion celebrated with food. Almost all Swedish families celebrate on December 24 with a Christmas table, called Christmas smörgåsbord (\"julbord\"), a display of several Christmas food items. Almost all julbord has Christmas ham, (\"julskinka\") accompanied by other Christmas dishes, such as small meatballs, pickled herring, spareribs, small hot dogs, lutfisk, pork sausage, salmon, Janssons frestelse (potato casserole with anchovy), and rice pudding. The Christmas julbord is served with julmust and beverage like mulled wine, Christmas beer or snaps. A Scandinavian speciality is the \"glögg\" (mulled and spiced wine with almonds and raisins), which is served hot in small cups. The different dishes of the julbord may vary throughout Sweden, from South to North. Businesses traditionally invite their employees to a julbord dinner or lunch the weeks before Christmas, and people go out privately to restaurants which also customarily offer julbord during December.\n\nExamples of candies and treats associated with Christmas are marzipan, toffee, knäck (quite similar to butterscotch), nuts and fruits: figs, chocolate, dates and oranges decorated with cloves.\n\nTelevision also plays a big role, many families watch the Disney Christmas special \"Kalle Anka och hans vänner önskar God Jul\" (\"From All of Us to All of You\"), \"Karl Bertil Jonssons julafton\" (animated short), or a re-run of the \"Svensson, Svensson\" episode \"God Jul!\" (\"Merry Christmas\") on the TV channel SVT1.\n\nAfter the julbord on December 24, the presents are distributed, either by Jultomten or a family member, and usually from a sack or from under the Christmas tree where they have been lying all day or for several days.\n\nMany Swedes still adhere to the tradition that each present should have a rhyme written on the wrapping paper, to hint at the contents without revealing them.\n\nIn older days a yule goat was an alternative to Jultomten, nowadays it is used as an ornament, ranging from sizes of 10 cm to huge constructions like the giant straw Christmas Gävle goat, famous for frequently being vandalised or burnt down. If one has two families to celebrate Christmas with, it is common that one of the families move their celebrations to Christmas Day or the day before Christmas Eve (commonly referred to as \"little Christmas Eve\").\n\nAfter December 24, the Christmas celebrations have more or less come to an end. Some people attend the julottan, an early morning church service on December 25. This particular service was the main service of Christmas historically—nowadays, the Midnight Mass has become increasingly popular. Others attend a simpler service called \"Christmas Prayer\" in the afternoon of Christmas Eve; however, many Swedes do not attend church at all during Christmas as the country is very secular. Even so, most families do set up a \"Julkrubba\" (\"Christmas Crib\"). On January 13 (locally known as \"knutdagen\" or \"tjugondag knut\", English = twentiethday Christmas), 20 days after Christmas, the Christmas celebrations come to an end and all Christmas decorations are removed.\n\nIn Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia, Christmas (Croatian: \"Božić\", Slovene: \"Božič\") is celebrated mainly as a religious holiday. The festivities begin on Saint Nicholas's Day on December 6 (in Slovenia) or St. Lucy's on December 13 depending on what region (in Croatia). St. Lucy or St. Nicholas brings children presents, and St. Nicholas is said to be accompanied by Krampus who steals away the presents of bad children. This \"anti-Santa\" is said to have one cloven hoof, a handful of heavy chains, and a sack on his back to collect naughty children. In Croatia on St. Lucy's, families will plant wheat seeds in a bowl of shallow water, which will grow several inches by Christmas and are then tied together with a red, blue and white ribbon called \"trobojnica'.\n\nOn Christmas Eve (Croatian: \"Badnjak\", Slovene: \"Sveti večer\" (holy eve)), three candles representing the Trinity are lit and placed in the middle of the wheat, the glow symbolizes the soul of each person. On this day, the tree is decorated, the home is decked with greenery and the women already beginning to prepare the Christmas meal. They also bake special types of bread: one is round inscribed with a cross on top known as the \"cesnica\", another is made with honey, nuts and dried fruit called the Christmas Eve Bread (Croatian: \"Badnji Kruh\", Slovene: \"Božični kruh\"). In many villages, straw (which symbolizes Christ's birth in the manger) is spread around the floors of the home for the Christmas Eve dinner. As is customary with Catholic people, meat is not consumed in Croatia, while in Slovenia it is. Instead of meat in Croatia and with other food in Slovenia, salad and fish is served, many choosing to eat the Dalmatian specialty \"bakalar\", dried cod fish. The family then sprinkle holy water on their Yule log (\"badnjak\") which they light and watch. In villages, the badnjak is freshly cut that very morning by the father of the household while reciting traditional prayers. At the end of the meal, a piece of the \"cesnica\" is cut and dipped in wine and used to sprinkle on the candles to extinguish them, while reciting the Trinitarian formula (\"In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen\").\n\nMany families will go to a midnight mass on Christmas Eve and often another on Christmas Day. It is common for Christmas presents to be placed under the tree, to suggest that the Angel or the Baby Jesus (\"Mali Isus\") leaves them there while others are attending midnight mass. Presents are opened after the mass. Christmas is a day of celebrating with family; a large feast is prepared and traditional foods such as stuffed cabbage, turkey, pot roast, pita and smoked meat are served, along with various desserts such as fritule, potica (especially in Slovenia), strudel, and cookies.\n\nSlovenes are also visited by another one of their \"trije dobri možje\" (three good guys), who bring presents in December: Saint Nicholas, Santa Claus and Dedek Mraz (\"Grandfather Frost\"). Families mostly celebrate New Year's Eve at home with extended family members, friends, and sometimes neighbours. Women prepare cabbage sarma, which they will eat on January 1 to symbolize good fortune, and steak tartare, which they eat on New Year's Eve on toast with butter. At midnight, people go outdoors to watch fireworks, while Dedek Mraz leaves presents under the tree. Epiphany on January 6 marks the end of the Christmas season.\n\nIn Bulgaria, Christmas (, \"Koleda\" or more formally Рождество Христово, \"Rozhdestvo Hristovo\", \"Nativity of Jesus\") is celebrated on December 25 and is preceded by Christmas Eve (Бъдни вечер, \"Badni vecher\"). Traditionally, Christmas Eve would be the climax of the Nativity Fast, and thus only an odd number of lenten dishes are presented on that evening. The table is usually not cleared after the dinner and until the next morning, to leave some food for the holy spirits – a custom which probably comes from pagan pre-Christian times. On that day, a Bulgarian budnik is set alight. On Christmas, however, meat dishes are already allowed and are typically served.\n\nAmong the Bulgarian Christmas traditions is koleduvane, which involves boy carolers (коледари, \"koledari\") visiting the neighbouring houses starting at midnight on Christmas Eve, wishing health, wealth and happiness. Another custom is the baking of a traditional round loaf (пита, \"pita\"). The pita is broken into pieces by the head of the family and a piece is given to each family member, a valuable possession, and a piece for God. A coin is hidden inside the pita and whoever gets the coin, he or she will have luck, health, and prosperity in the coming year.\n\nAs in other countries, a Christmas tree is typically set up and the entire house is decorated. The local name of Santa Claus is Dyado Koleda (Дядо Коледа, \"Grandfather Christmas\"), with Dyado Mraz (Дядо Мраз, \"Grandfather Frost\") being a similar Russian-imported character lacking the Christian connotations and thus popular during the Communist rule. However, it has been largely forgotten after 1989, when Dyado Koleda again returned as the more popular figure.\n\nThe festive period lasts from November 30 to January 6 (Epiphany) on the Greek calendar. December 25 and 26 is a public holiday in Greece. In Greek, Christmas is known as Christougena (Χριστούγεννα) and people wish Merry Christmas to each other saying Kala Christougenna (Καλά Χριστούγεννα). Most families set up Christmas trees and shops have decorations and lights. Presents are placed under the Christmas tree and are opened on January 1, St Basil's Day. In Greek tradition, Basil's (of Caesarea) name was given to Father Christmas and is supposed to visit children and give presents on January 1 (when Basil's memory is celebrated), unlike other European traditions, where this person is Saint Nicholas and comes every Christmas. Carol singing is another tradition on Christmas and New Year's Eve. The Christmas meal usually includes lamb or pork and desserts such as kourabies (κουραμπιές) and melomakarona (μελομακάρονα). Other Christmas and new year foods include 'Baklava' (sweet pastry), Kataifi (pastry), Theeples (a kind of fried pastry).\n\nChristmas Eve on December 24 and 23 housewives make the Christmas cake with a cross in the middle and avgokouloures which are subsequently offered to the elderly and children. Children singing carols from house to house either before or on Christmas Day. People go to church early the morning of Christmas on December 25. Christmas morning after church there is the practice to become the \"pork batches,\" served with wine to open the appetite, and \"thick,\" done by Eve, which is boiled pork with plenty of lemon that is left to clot overnight. The pork-food is in the hallmark of Greek Christmas. In many Greek cities and ports like Thessaloniki, Volos, Patra, the Greek Islands etc., it is decorated the traditional Christmas boat. And in many central squares of the country a big Christmas tree, where many of the Christmas festivals take place.\n\nSome of the Christmas Festivals in Greece are \"Ρουγκατσάρια\" \"Rugatsariα\", where all the residents of the city of Kastoria are delivered in a separate Dionysian revelry, with the accompaniment of folk melodies bodies all traditional musical sounds of the area. This ancient habit, whose origin is lost in time.\nIn Mani there are beliefs about demonic and other supernatural beings, who come from the Twelve Days of Christ as the Epiphany. These are the goblins and say that they are the descendants God Pan or Satyrs, who jumped from the mythology in the Christian life.\n\nThe Feast of the Immaculate Conception (Italian Festa dell'Immacolata Concezione) on December 8 is a national holiday in Italy. Christmas decorations, including the presepe (nativity scene), as well as the Christmas tree, are usually put up on this day. Some modern takes on this holiday involve them hanging vultures to symbolize the cleaning of their spirits.\n\nSaint Lucy's Day (Italian: Giorno di Santa Lucia) is celebrated as a Catholic holiday in Sicily and Northern regions of Italy on the supposed Shortest day of the year which is December 13. Saint Lucy is the patron saint of the city of Syracuse better known as \"Santa Lucia\" as she is called in the traditional Neapolitan song. Evening candlelight processions called the parade of light are conducted and are followed by the Feast of St. Lucy. Sicilians pay tribute to a miracle performed by St Lucy during a famine in 1582. At that time, she brought a flotilla of grain-bearing ships to starving Sicily, whose citizens cooked and ate the wheat without taking time to grind it into flour. Thus, on St. Lucy's Day, Sicilians do not eat anything made with wheat flour. Instead they eat cooked wheat called cuccìa.\n\nChristmas is celebrated in Italy in a similar fashion to other Western European countries, with a strong emphasis given to the Christian meaning of the holiday and its celebration by the Catholic Church, also reinforced by the still widespread tradition of setting up the \"presepe\", a tradition initiated by Saint Francis of Assisi. It is quite common to attend midnight mass on Christmas Eve and practice the custom not to eat any meat. The dinner traditionally consists of seafood, with the Feast of the Seven Fishes, followed by typical Italian Christmas sweets, such as pandoro, panettone, torrone, panforte, struffoli, caggionetti, Monte Bianco or others, depending on the regional cuisine. Christmas on the 25th is celebrated with a family lunch, consisting of different types of meat dishes, cheese and local sweets.\n\nThe ancient Christmas festival called Ndocciata is celebrated on December 8 and Christmas Eve in Agnone, Molise, with a parade of torches leading up to the \"Bonfire of Brotherhood\".\n\nOn Christmas Eve, in the squares of many towns of the eastern Sicily, a big bonfire, \"U Zuccu\", is lit to warm the Baby Jesus.\n\nTraditions regarding the exchanging of gifts vary from region to region, as this might take place either on Christmas Eve or on Christmas Day. Presents for children are left underneath the Christmas tree either by Santa Claus (called ) or, according to older traditions, by Baby Jesus himself. In some regions children receive gifts earlier (at St. Lucy's Day) or later (on Epiphany).\n\nDecember 26, (St. Stephen's Day, in Italian Giorno di Santo Stefano), is also a public holiday in Italy. Festivities extend to the end of the year and then to the Epiphany.\n\nOn January 6 (Epiphany, in Italian Epifania) decorations are usually taken down, and in some areas female puppets are burned on a pire (called \"falò\"), to symbolize, along with the end of the Christmas period, the death of the old year and the beginning of a new one.\nWhile gifts are now given at Christmas by an American style Santa Claus as well, Italy holds fast to its tradition of native gift-givers. On the eve of the 6th, la Befana, the good Epiphany witch, is thought to ride the night skies on broomstick, bringing good children gifts and sweets, and bad ones charcoal or bags of ashes. In other areas it is the Three Wise Men who bring gifts, especially oranges symbolizing gold, and chocolate symbolizing their kisses to good children. In some municipalities, most famously in Milan, the custom of the \"Corteo dei Re Magi\" (Three Kings Procession) is elaboratedly celebrated with a parade welcoming the Wise Men, and the passing out of sweets. In other places, such as Treviso the day is celebrated with bonfires, the sparks of which are said to predict the future of the new year.\n\nChristmas () in Malta is mostly secular, with a number of Christian-related themes.\n\nMidnight Masses are popular amng the older generations, and Christmas processions take place on Christmas Eve with a statue of the baby Jesus in towns and villages, led by the Society of Christian Doctrine.\n\nA public holiday in Malta, Christmas Day is celebrated on December 25. Christmas lunch usually consists of turkey served with potatoes and vegetables (Malta is a former British colony). The island has adopted other popular secular customs and traditions such as the Christmas tree and Father Christmas.\n\nPresents are normally generally exchanged either on Christmas Eve or on Christmas Day. A local seasonal food is the \"Qaghaq ta' l-Ghasel\" (Honey Ring). These Maltese Christmas sweets are eaten as a dessert during the Christmas season but can also be purchased all year round. Christmas cribs are a popular and are seen in most homes.\n\nAnother Christmas tradition is the planting of common vetch seeds in flat-bottomed pots. They are planted around the beginning of December, normally placed on white cotton and watered every day whilst being kept in the dark all the time. They are usually taken out just before Christmas, and resemble long white spaghetti-like strands of leaves (since they would have grown in the dark).\n\nChristmas, an official holiday in Portugal, is widely celebrated and is associated with family gatherings. People who have moved to the main cities, like Lisbon or Porto, or even those who have emigrated to other countries, still travel to their home towns and villages to spend Christmas Eve with their families. After the \"Missa do galo\" (Rooster's Mass) that celebrates the birth of Christ, families gather around the \"Consoada\", the late supper held on Christmas Eve. The traditional dish is \"bacalhau com todos\" (dried codfish boiled with vegetables), although, in northern Portugal, the bacalhau is often replaced by octopus. The Christmas dinner usually ends with \"fatias douradas\" (golden slices), \"filhoses\" and \"sonhos\" (dreams), all desserts based on fried flour or fried bread. Another traditional cake is the king cake served on Epiphany. Nowadays, although Santa Claus (\"Pai Natal\") is more popular, in some regions people still believe that it is the \"Menino Jesus\" (Baby Jesus) who brings presents to children.\n\nIn Serbia and Montenegro, Christmas (Serbian: Божић, \"Božić\" or more formally Рождество Христово, Rozhdestvo Hristovo, \"Nativity of Christ\") is celebrated for three consecutive days, beginning with Christmas Day. The Serbian Orthodox Church uses the traditional Julian calendar, per which Christmas Day (December 25) falls on January 7. This day is called the first day of Christmas, and the following two are accordingly called the second, and the third day of Christmas. During this festive time, one is to greet another person with \"Christ is Born,\" which should be responded to with \"Truly He is Born.\" The Serbian name for Christmas is \"Božić\" (Cyrillic: Божић, ), which means the young or little God.\n\nThis holiday surpasses all the others celebrated by Serbs, with respect to the diversity of applied folk customs and rituals. These may vary from region to region, some of them having modern versions adapted to the contemporary way of living. The ideal environment to carry them out fully is the traditional multi-generation country household.\n\nIn the morning of Christmas Eve a young, straight oak tree is selected and felled by the head of the household. A log is cut from it and is referred to as the badnjak. In the evening, the badnjak is ceremoniously put on the domestic fire that burns on the house's fireplace called \"ognjište\", whose hearth is without a vertical surround. The burning of the \"badnjak\" is accompanied by prayers to God so that the coming year may bring much happiness, love, luck, riches, and food. Since most houses today have no \"ognjište\" on which to burn a \"badnjak\", it is symbolically represented by several leaved oak twigs. For the convenience of people who live in towns and cities, they can be bought at marketplaces or received in churches.\n\nThe dinner on this day is festive, copious and diverse in foods, although it is prepared in accordance with the rules of fasting. Groups of young people go from house to house of their village or neighbourhood, congratulating each other, singing, and making performances; this continues through the next three days. The Serbs also take a bundle of straw into the house and spread it over the floor, and then put walnuts on it. Before the table is served for the Christmas Eve dinner, it is strewn with a thin layer of straw and covered with a white cloth. The head of household makes the Sign of the Cross, lights a candle, and censes the whole house. The family members sit down at the table, but before tucking in they all rise and a man or boy among them says a prayer, or they together sing the Troparion of the Nativity.\nAfter the dinner young people visit their friends, a group of whom may gather at the house of one of them. Christmas and other songs are sung, while the elderly narrate stories from the olden times.\n\nOn Christmas Day, the celebration is announced at dawn by church bells and by shooting. A big importance is given to the first visit a family receives that day. People expect that it will summon prosperity and well-being for their household in the ensuing year; this visit is often pre-arranged. Christmas dinner is the most celebratory meal a family has during a year. A special, festive loaf of bread is baked for this occasion. The main course is roast pork of a pig which they cook whole by rotating it impaled on a wooden spit close to an open fire. Even though gift-giving is not necessarily a part of the tradition, a Santa Claus inspired character called Božić Bata (translated as Christmas friend) sometimes takes his during gift giving, as Santa Claus is more traditionally connected to New Years celebrations. Gift-giving is, nevertheless, connected with the celebrations, being traditionally done on the three consecutive Sundays that immediately precede it. Children, women, and men, respectively, are the set gift-givers on these three days.\n\nSince the early 1990s, the Serbian Orthodox Church has, together with local communities, organized public celebrations on Christmas Eve. The course of these celebrations can be typically divided into three parts: the preparation, the ritual, and the festivity. The preparation consists of going and cutting down the tree to be used as the \"badnjak\", taking it to the church yard, and preparing drink and food for the assembled parishioners. The ritual includes Vespers, placing the \"badnjak\" on the open fire built in the church yard, blessing or consecrating the \"badnjak\", and an appropriate program with songs and recitals. In some parishes they build the fire on which to burn the \"badnjak\" not in the church yard but at some other suitable location in their town or village. The festivity consists of getting together around the fire and socializing. Each particular celebration, however, has its own specificities which reflect traditions of the local community, and other local factors.\n\nIn Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia Christmas is celebrated on January 7. This is a result of their Eastern Orthodox churches marking Christmas Day based on the Julian calendar, which is now 13 days behind the internationally used Gregorian calendar.\n\nChristmas and St Stephen's Day are officially recognized holidays in Spain. In most of Spain, the Christmas period, referred to as \"Navidad\", lasts from Christmas Eve referred to as \"Nochebuena\" or \"the Good Night.\" on December 24 to Epiphany on January 6. Many homes and most churches display a Nativity scene, a Christmas tree, or both. The \"pesebre\" (nativity scene) is present in many homes, schools and stores. On the 26th, \"Sant Esteve\" (Saint Stephen) is celebrated with a family gathering.\n\nA large family dinner is celebrated on Christmas Eve (Nochebuena) and can last until 6 o'clock in the morning. There is a wide variety of typical foods one might find on plates across Spain on this particular night, and each region has its own distinct specialities. It is particularly common, however, to start the meal with a seafood dish such as prawns or salmon, followed by a bowl of hot, homemade soup. The main meal will commonly consist of roast lamb, or seafood, such as cod or shellfish. For dessert, there is quite a spread of delicacies, among them are turrón, a dessert made of honey, egg and almonds that is Arabic in origin. Special dishes and desserts include Mariscos y Pescado (shellfish and fish), marzipan, Pavo Trufado de Navidad (turkey with truffles), and polvorones (shortbread made of almonds, flour and sugar).\n\nEven though there is still the traditional Misa del Gallo at midnight, few Spaniards continue to follow the old custom of attending.\n\nChildren usually receive one or two presents on Christmas Day (December 25), brought by \"Papá Noel\" (Father Noel), which is a non-traditional imitation of the American Santa Claus, but in some regions there are other more traditional characters, for example, the Olentzero in the Basque Country. There is a special Christmas dance called the Jota which has been performed for centuries in Spain during Christmas.\n\nOn December 31 (Nochevieja) there is also a large family feast. Some young people go out in \"cotillón\", a very big feast in bars and pubs and the drink and dance until January 1 morning, when they have churros with chocolate for breakfast. On January 5 a huge parade (La Cabalgata or cavalcade) welcomes the Three Kings to the city. Children put their shoes in the window on January 5 in the hope that the Three Wise Men will deliver them presents.\n\nChristmas in France (Noël on the French calendar) is celebrated mainly in a religious manner, though secular ways of celebrating the occasion also exist, such as Christmas decorations and carols. Children do not hang Christmas stockings but put their shoes by the fireplace or under the Christmas tree so \"Père Noël\" (Father Christmas or Santa Claus) can give them gifts (a practice also among French-speaking Switzerland). Some families also attend midnight mass and decorate their homes with Nativity Scenes depicting the birth of Jesus. Additional \"Santons\" (little saints) may be added in the nativity scenes.\n\nIn France and in other French-speaking areas (see French Canada), a long family dinner, called a \"réveillon\", is held on Christmas Eve. The name of this dinner is based on the word \"réveil\" (meaning \"waking\"), because participation involves staying awake until midnight and beyond. Réveillon is generally of an exceptional or luxurious nature. Appetizers may include lobster, oysters, escargots or foie gras, etc. One traditional dish is turkey with chestnuts. Réveillons in Quebec will often include some variety of tourtière. Dessert may consist of a \"bûche de Noël\". In Provence, the tradition of the \"13 desserts\" is followed, almost invariably including: \"pompe à l'huile\" (a flavoured bread), dates, etc. Quality wine is usually consumed at such dinners, often with champagne or similar sparkling wines as a conclusion. Christmas carols may also be sung.\n\nIn the United Kingdom Christmas decorations are put up in shops and town centres from early November. Many towns and cities have a public event involving a local or regional celebrity to mark the switching on of Christmas lights. Decorations in people's homes are commonly put up from early December, traditionally including a Christmas tree, cards, and lights both inside and outside the home. Every year, Norway donates a giant Christmas tree for the British to raise in Trafalgar Square as a thank you for helping during the Second World War. Christmas carolers at Trafalgar Square in London sing around the tree on various evenings up until Christmas Eve and Christmas decorations are traditionally left up until the evening of January 5 (the night before Epiphany); it is considered bad luck to have Christmas decorations up after this date. In practice, many Christmas traditions, such as the playing of Christmas music, largely stop after Christmas Day.\n\nMince pies are traditionally sold during the festive season and are a popular food for Christmas. It is common in many UK households for children and adults to put up advent calendars in their homes, which may either contain chocolates or Christmas scenes behind their doors.\n\nA common feature of the Christmas season is the Nativity play which is practiced in most primary and some secondary schools across the UK. This practice is becoming less common, and Christmas pantomimes may be performed instead. Midnight Mass is also celebrated by Anglicans, Catholics, and other denominations, and services take place in nearly all Church of England parishes on Christmas Eve.\n\nOn Christmas Eve, presents are supposedly delivered in stockings and under the Christmas tree by Father Christmas, who previously had been something like The Ghost of Christmas Present in Charles Dickens' \"A Christmas Carol\" (1843), but who has now become mainly conflated with Santa Claus. The two names are now used interchangeably and are equally known to British people, though some distinctive features still remain. Many families tell their children stories about Father Christmas and his reindeer. One tradition is to put out a plate of carrots for the reindeer, and mince pies and sherry for Father Christmas to help him on his way.\n\nThe majority of families open their presents on the morning of Christmas Day, the Royal family being a notable exception, as they open their gifts on Christmas Eve, following German tradition introduced by the Hanoverians. Queen Victoria as a child made note of it in her diary for Christmas Eve 1832; the delighted 13-year-old princess wrote, \"After dinner ... we then went into the drawing-room near the dining-room ... There were two large round tables on which were placed two trees hung with lights and sugar ornaments. All the presents being placed round the trees..\". Since the first commercial Christmas card was produced in London in 1843, cards are sent in the weeks leading up to Christmas, many of which contain the English festive greeting \"Merry Christmas\".\n\nOn Christmas Day, a public holiday in the United Kingdom, nearly the whole population has the day off to be with their family and friends, so they can gather round for a traditional Christmas dinner, traditionally comprising a turkey with cranberries, brussels sprouts, parsnips, Yorkshire pudding and roast potatoes, quite like the Sunday roast, and followed by a Christmas pudding. During the meal, Christmas crackers, containing toys, jokes, and a paper hat are pulled. Attendance at a Christmas Day church service has become less popular in modern times, with fewer than 3 million now attending a Christmas Day Church of England service. Watching the Queen's Speech on TV is a tradition that can be important in many households on Christmas Day, typically averaging 7 million viewers and sometimes being the most watched show of the day.\nThe Celebration of Boxing Day, on the day after Christmas Day, is a tradition practiced in the UK. It is a bank holiday, and if it happens to fall on a weekend then a special Bank Holiday Monday will occur. Also, depending on the day of the week, it is often a day when football matches are played in the professional leagues and many people go to watch their team play.\n\nOther traditions include carol singing – many carols are sung by children on people's doorsteps and by professional choirs – and sending Christmas cards. In public, there are decorations and lights in most shops, especially in town centres, and even in Indian and Chinese restaurants. Churches and cathedrals across the country hold masses, with many people going to midnight mass or a service on Christmas morning. Even though church attendance has been falling over the decades some people who do not go to church often think it is still important to go at Christmas, so Church attendance increases. Most theatres have a tradition of putting on a Christmas pantomime for children. The pantomime stories are traditionally based on popular children's stories such as \"Little Red Riding Hood\" and \"Aladdin\", rather than being directly concerned with Christmas as such, although there is sometimes a link. Television is widely watched: for many television channels, Christmas Day is the most important day of the year in terms of ratings.\n\nPublic transport and vital transport services are closed-down on Christmas day (December 25) and remain closed for essential maintenance work until New Year. The Christmas wind-down starts early, with last trains running out of the major cities as early as 19:00 on December 24. Bus, night bus, and underground services are also unavailable from about 21:00 hours. Individual transport companies start make announcement from as early as October, and while one train operating company may choose to run no trains on Boxing Day another may run a limited Saturday service but totally close major stations.\n\nIn England, telling ghost stories, local legends, and other strange, bizarre, and fantastic \"winter stories\" (as Charles Dickens – author of \"A Christmas Carol\" -termed them) is a centuries-old tradition, to which William Shakespeare contributed with \"The Winter's Tale\" (1623) but which was well known even before Shakespeare's time. (In contrast, the Ireland, Scotland, and the USA favor Halloween as a time for telling ghostly tales.) Colin Fleming details other contributors to this tradition in the \"Paris Review\".\n\nWales has a tradition of singing \"caneuon plygain\" which is done on the week before Christmas day.\n\nChristmas in Scotland was traditionally observed very quietly, because the Church of Scotland – a Presbyterian Church – for various reasons never placed much emphasis on the Christmas festival; although in Catholic areas people would attend Midnight Mass or early morning Mass before going to work. This tradition derives from the Church of Scotland's origins including St Columba's monastic tradition, under which every day is God's day and there is none more special than another. (Thus Good Friday is not an official public holiday in Scotland.); the Kirk and the state being closely linked in Scotland during the Late Middle Ages and the Early Modern period.\nChristmas Day was commonly a normal working day in Scotland until the 1960s, and even into the 1970s in some areas. The New Year's Eve festivity, Hogmanay, was by far the largest celebration in Scotland. The gift-giving, public holidays and feasting associated with mid-winter were traditionally held between December 11 and January 6. However, since the 1980s, the fading of the Church's influence and the increased influences from the rest of the UK and elsewhere, Christmas and its related festivities are now nearly on a par with Hogmanay and \"Ne'erday\". The capital city of Edinburgh now has a traditional German Christmas market from late November until Christmas Eve and on the first Sunday in Advent a nativity scene is blessed by the Cardinal Archbishop in the main square. On Christmas Day, people sometimes make big bonfires and dance around them to the playing of bagpipes. Bannock cakes made of oatmeal are traditionally eaten at Christmas.\n\nChristmas in Ireland is the largest celebration on the calendar in Ireland and lasts from December 24 to January 6, although many view December 8 as being the start of the season; and schools used to close on this day, making it a traditional Christmas shopping time, this is no longer compulsory and many stay open.\n\nAlmost the entire workforce is finished by lunchtime on Christmas Eve, or often a few days beforehand. Christmas Day and St. Stephen's Day are public holidays, and many people do not return to work until after New Year's Day. Irish people spend more and more money each year on celebrating Christmas. In 2006, the total amount spent in Ireland to celebrate Christmas was €16 billion, which averages at approximately €4,000 for every single person in the country.\n\nIt is extremely popular on Christmas Eve to go for \"the Christmas drink\" in the local pub, where regular punters are usually offered a Christmas drink. Many neighbours and friends attend each other's houses for Christmas drinks and parties on the days leading up to and after Christmas Day. Although religious devotion in Ireland today is considerably less than it used to be, there are huge attendances at religious services for Christmas Day, with Midnight Mass a popular choice. Most families arrange for their deceased relatives to be prayed for at these Masses as it is a time of remembering the dead in Ireland. It is traditional to decorate graves at Christmas with a wreath made of holly and ivy. Even in the most undevout of homes in Ireland the traditional crib takes centre stage along with the Christmas tree as part of the family's decorations. Some people light candles to signify symbolic hospitality for Mary and Joseph. Therefore, it is usual to see a white candle, or candle set, placed in several windows around people's homes. The candle was a way of saying there was room for Jesus's parents in these homes even if there was none in Bethlehem. It is traditional to leave a mince pie and a bottle or a glass of Guinness for Santa Claus along with a carrot for Rudolph on Christmas Eve.\n\nSanta Claus, often known in Ireland simply as Santy or \"Daidí na Nollag\" in Irish, brings presents to children in Ireland, which are opened on Christmas morning. Family and friends also give each other gifts at Christmas. The traditional Christmas dinner consists of turkey or goose and ham with a selection of vegetables and a variety of potatoes, as potatoes still act as a staple food in Ireland despite the popularisation of staples such as rice and pasta. Dessert is a very rich selection of Christmas pudding, Christmas cake, and mince pies with equally rich sauces such as brandy butter.\n\nChristmas celebrations in Ireland finish with the celebration of Little Christmas also known as Oíche Nollaig na mBan in Irish on January 6. This festival, which coincides with Epiphany, is also known as \"Women's Christmas\" in Cork & Kerry.\n\nChristmas traditions in the Netherlands are almost the same as the ones in Dutch speaking parts of Belgium (Flanders). The Dutch recognize two days of Christmas as public holidays in the Netherlands, calling December 25 Eerste Kerstdag (\"first Christmas day\") and December 26 Tweede Kerstdag (\"second Christmas day\"). In families, it is customary to spend these days with either side of the family.\n\nIn Catholic parts of the country, it used to be common to attend Christmas Eve midnight mass; this custom is upheld, but mostly by the elder generation and by fewer people every year. Christmas Eve is these days a rather normal evening without any special gatherings or meals. On Christmas Day, throughout both Flanders and the Netherlands elaborated meals are prepared by the host or together as a family. Also meals of which every participant / guest is preparing one dish are very common. The week before Christmas is important to the retail trade, because this is the biggest sales week in the country. Christmas songs are heard everywhere. The cities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague and Eindhoven are the busiest cities in terms of entertainment on Christmas Day. Many people do not exchange gifts on Christmas, since this is already done during a separate holiday (Sinterklaas) a few weeks before Christmas. In Twente people will blow the mid-winter horns around Christmas.\n\nThe Christmas season wraps up after the new year with Epiphany, or \"Driekoningen\". On January 6 children especially in the north of the Netherlands dress up as the Three Wise Men and travel in groups of three carrying lanterns, re-enacting the Epiphany and singing traditional songs for their hosts. In return they are rewarded with cakes and sweets. This practice is less common south of the great rivers. In the south and east of the Netherlands it is common practice to burn the Christmas trees of the community on a big pile on January 6 to celebrate the end of Christmas and the start of the new year.\n\nIn Australia, as with all of the Southern Hemisphere, Christmas occurs during the height of the summer season. Christmas Day and Boxing Day (December 25–26) are recognized as national public holidays in Australia, and workers are therefore entitled to a day off with pay.\n\nThe Australian traditions and decorations are quite similar to those of the United Kingdom and North America, and similar wintry iconography is commonplace. This means a red fur-coated Santa Claus riding a sleigh, carols such as \"Jingle Bells\", and various snow-covered Christmas scenes on Christmas cards and decorations appear in the middle of summer. As novelties, some Australian songwriters and authors have occasionally depicted Santa in \"Australian\"-style clothing including an Akubra hat, with warm-weather clothing and thongs, and riding in a ute pulled by kangaroos, (e.g. \"Six White Boomers\" by Rolf Harris) but these depictions have not replaced mainstream iconography.\n\nChristmas Day and Boxing Day are both statutory holidays in New Zealand. While Boxing Day is a standard statutory holiday, Christmas Day is one of the three-and-a-half days of the year where all but the most essential businesses and services must close. Many of New Zealand's Christmas traditions are similar to those of Australia in that they are a mix of United Kingdom traditions conducted in summer. New Zealand celebrates Christmas with very little traditional northern hemisphere winter imagery, mixed with local imagery. The pohutukawa (\"Metrosideros excelsa\"), which produces large crimson flowers in December, is an often used symbol for Christmas in New Zealand, and subsequently the pohutukawa has become known as the \"New Zealand Christmas tree\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33472554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33472554", "title": "Daylight saving time in Mauritius", "text": "Daylight saving time in Mauritius\n\nMauritius's DST period started on the last Sunday in October, and ended on the last Sunday in March.\n\nIt was re-introduced in 2008\nMauritius did not repeat DST since 2009.\n"}
{"id": "37419361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37419361", "title": "Farhad-beg-yailaki", "text": "Farhad-beg-yailaki\n\nFarhad-beg-yailaki is an archaeological site on the Silk Road in what was the Kingdom of Khotan which is located 60 miles east of its affiliated city, Hotan, China.\n\nSir Marc Aurel Stein, a Hungarian-born early British archaeologists and explorer, investigated the remains of numerous centers of Buddhism during the early 1900s through three expeditions to the Silk Road. One of the sites Stein uncovered was the Buddhist shrines at Farhad-beg-yailaki, dated to around the fourth to sixth century AD.\n\nSeveral Buddhist statues found within the shines are wearing robes covered in bright floral designs with a mound of fabric at their feet, which are thought to symbolize worship offerings. Additionally, Stein found various artefacts at the site that he believed were evidence of Farhad-beg-yailaki's relations with various differing cultures.\n\nWithin the site there are several murals and statues displaying two significant Buddhist mythological figures. One being the mother of demons, Hariti, and the other is the bodhisattva Avalokitesvara, both of which are portrayed wearing fabrics with Sassanian motifs. The mural containing the figure of Hariti from Farhad-beg-yailaki is thought to specifically demonstrate the Khotanese school of painting style, which was highly admired in contemporary China and was in high demand during the late Sui Dynasty. This style of painting was also regarded highly in Tibet and is thought to have had a significant impact on Tibetan culture during the eighth century.\n\nDuring Sir Stein's three Silk Road expeditions, he uncovered clay seal impressions along with terracotta pottery fragments, both displaying classical mythological images, such as the Trojan prince Ganymede and depictions of winged horses.\n\nSeveral of these fragmented terracotta vessels, along with fragments of woven plant fiber, silk, and wool obtained during these expeditions are on loan from the Government of India to the Victoria and Albert Museum, the British Museum, and the British Library, all in London, England.\n"}
{"id": "12568324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12568324", "title": "GPS puck", "text": "GPS puck\n\nGPS puck has two meanings.\n\nIt is a term for the antenna on GPS navigation devices, which receives GPS signals from GPS satellites. The early antennas were round, and thus had the appearance of a hockey puck.\n\nAlternatively, a GPS puck is a full puck-sized GPS system (receiver and antenna).\n"}
{"id": "171118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171118", "title": "Galápagos Islands", "text": "Galápagos Islands\n\nThe Galápagos Islands (official name: , other Spanish name: , ), part of the Republic of Ecuador, are an archipelago of volcanic islands distributed on either side of the equator in the Pacific Ocean surrounding the centre of the Western Hemisphere, west of continental Ecuador. The islands are known for their large number of endemic species and were studied by Charles Darwin during the second voyage of HMS \"Beagle\". His observations and collections contributed to the inception of Darwin's theory of evolution by means of natural selection.\n\nThe Galápagos Islands and their surrounding waters form the Galápagos Province of Ecuador, the Galápagos National Park, and the Galápagos Marine Reserve. The principal language on the islands is Spanish. The islands have a population of slightly over 25,000.\n\nThe first recorded visit to the islands happened by chance in 1535, when Fray Tomás de Berlanga, the Bishop of Panamá, was surprised with this undiscovered land during a voyage to Peru to arbitrate in a dispute between Francisco Pizarro and Diego de Almagro. De Berlanga eventually returned to the Spanish Empire and described the conditions of the islands and the animals that inhabited them. The group of islands was shown and named in Abraham Ortelius's atlas published in 1570. The first crude map of the islands was made in 1684 by the buccaneer Ambrose Cowley, who named the individual islands after some of his fellow pirates or after British royalty and noblemen. These names were used in the authoritative navigation charts of the islands prepared during the \"Beagle\" survey under captain Robert FitzRoy, and in Darwin's popular book \"The Voyage of the Beagle\". The new Republic of Ecuador took the islands from Spanish ownership in 1832, and subsequently gave them official Spanish names. The older names remained in use in English-language publications, including Herman Melville's \"The Encantadas\" of 1854.\n\nVolcanism has been continuous on the Galápagos Islands for at least 20 myr, and perhaps even longer. The mantle plume beneath the east-ward moving Nazca Plate (51 km/myr) has given rise to a 3-kilometre-thick platform under the island chain and seamounts. Besides the Galápagos Archipelago, other key tectonic features in the region include the Northern Galápagos Volcanic Province between the archipelago and the Galápagos Spreading Center (GSC) 200 km to the north at the boundary of the Nazca Plate and the Cocos Plate. This spreading center truncates into the East Pacific Rise on the west and is bounded by the Cocos Ridge and Carnegie Ridge in the east. Furthermore, the Galápagos Hotspot is at the northern boundary of the Pacific Large Low Shear Velocity Province while the Easter Hotspot is on the southern boundary.\n\nThe Galápagos Archipelago is characterized by numerous contemporaneous volcanoes, some with plume magma sources, others from the asthenosphere, possibly due to the young and thin oceanic crust. The GSC caused structural weaknesses in this thin lithosphere leading to eruptions forming the Galápagos Platform. Fernandina and Isabela in particular are aligned along these weaknesses. Lacking a well-defined rift zone, the islands have a high rate of inflation prior to eruption. Sierra Negra on Isabela Island experienced a 240 cm uplift between 1992 and 1998, most recent eruption in 2005, while Fernandina on Fernandina Island indicated an uplift of 90 cm, most recent eruption in 2009. Alcedo on Isabela Island had an uplift of greater than 90 cm, most recent eruption in 1993. Additional characteristics of the Galápagos Archipelago are closer volcano spacing, smaller volcano sizes, and larger calderas. For instance, Isabela Island includes 6 major volcanoes, Ecuador, Wolf, Darwin, Alcedo, Sierra Negraa and Cerro Azul, with most recent eruptions ranging from 1813 to 2008. The neighboring islands of Santiago and Fernandina last erupted in 1906 and 2009, respectively. Overall, the 9 active volcanoes in the archipelago have erupted 24 times between 1961 and 2011. The shape of these volcanoes is that of an \"overturned soup bowl\" as opposed to the \"overturned saucer plate\" of the Hawaiian Islands. The Galápagos's shape is due to the pattern of radial and circumferential fissure, radial on the flanks, but circumferential near the caldera summits. It is the circumferential fissures which give rise to stacks of short lava flows.\n\nThe volcanoes at the west end of the archipelago are in general, taller, younger, have well developed calderas, and are mostly composed of tholeiitic basalt, while those on the east are shorter, older, lack calderas, and have a more diverse composition. The ages of the islands, from west to east are 0.05 Ma for Fernandina, 0.65 Ma for Isabela, 1.10 Ma for Santiago, 1.7 Ma for Santa Cruz, 2.90 Ma for Santa Fe, and 3.2 Ma for San Cristobal. The calderas on Sierra Negra and Alcedo have active fault systems. The Sierra Negra fault is associated with a sill 2 km below the caldera. The caldera on Fernandina experienced the largest basaltic volcano collapse in history, with the 1968 phreatomagmatic eruption. Fernandina has also been the most active volcano since 1790, with recent eruptions in 1991, 1995, 2005, and 2009, and the entire surface has been covered in numerous flows since 4.3 Ka. The western volcanoes have numerous tuff cones.\n\nThe islands are located in the eastern Pacific Ocean, off the west coast of South America. The closest land mass is that of mainland Ecuador, the country to which they belong, to the east.\n\nThe islands are found at the coordinates 1°40'N–1°36'S, 89°16'–92°01'W. Straddling the equator, islands in the chain are located in both the northern and southern hemispheres, with Volcán Wolf and Volcán Ecuador on Isla Isabela being directly on the equator. Española Island, the southernmost islet of the archipelago, and Darwin Island, the northernmost one, are spread out over a distance of . The International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) considers them wholly within the South Pacific Ocean, however. The Galápagos Archipelago consists of of land spread over of ocean. The largest of the islands, Isabela, measures and makes up close to three-quarters of the total land area of the Galápagos. Volcán Wolf on Isabela is the highest point, with an elevation of above sea level.\n\nThe group consists of 18 main islands, 3 smaller islands, and 107 rocks and islets. The islands are located at the Galapagos Triple Junction. The archipelago is located on the Nazca Plate (a tectonic plate), which is moving east/southeast, diving under the South American Plate at a rate of about per year. It is also atop the Galápagos hotspot, a place where the Earth's crust is being melted from below by a mantle plume, creating volcanoes. The first islands formed here at least 8 million and possibly up to 90 million years ago.\n\nWhile the older islands have disappeared below the sea as they moved away from the mantle plume, the youngest islands, Isabela and Fernandina, are still being formed. In April 2009, lava from the volcanic island Fernandina started flowing both towards the island's shoreline and into the center caldera. \n\nIn late June 2018, Sierra Negra, one of five volcanoes on Isabela and one of the most active in the Galapagos archipelago, began erupting for the first time since 2005. Lava flows made their way to the coastline, prompting the evacuation of about fifty nearby residents and restricting tourist access.\n\nThe 18 main islands (each having a land area at least 1 km) of the archipelago (with their English names) shown alphabetically:\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the islands are located on the equator, the Humboldt Current brings cold water to them, causing frequent drizzles during most of the year. The weather is periodically influenced by the El Niño events, which occur about every 3 to 7 years and are characterized by warm sea surface temperatures, a rise in sea level, greater wave action, and a depletion of nutrients in the water.\n\nDuring the season known as the \"garúa\" (June to November), the temperature by the sea is , a steady and cold wind blows from south and southeast, frequent drizzles (\"garúas\") last most of the day, and dense fog conceals the islands. During the warm season (December to May), the average sea and air temperature rises to , there is no wind at all, there are sporadic, though strong, rains and the sun shines.\n\nWeather changes as altitude increases in the large islands. Temperature decreases gradually with altitude, while precipitation increases due to the condensation of moisture in clouds on the slopes. There is a large range in precipitation from one place to another, not only with altitude, but also depending on the location of the islands, and also with the seasons.\n\nThe following table corresponding to the wet 1969 shows the variation of precipitation in different places of Santa Cruz Island:\n\nThe precipitation also depends on the geographical location. During March 1969, the precipitation over Charles Darwin Station, on the southern coast of Santa Cruz was , while on Baltra Island, the precipitation during the same month was only . This is because Baltra is located behind Santa Cruz with respect to the prevailing southerly winds, so most of the moisture gets precipitated in the Santa Cruz highlands.\n\nThere are significant changes in precipitation from one year to another, too. At Charles Darwin Station, the precipitation during March 1969 was , but during March 1970, it was only .\n\nOn the larger islands, the pattern of generally wet highlands and drier lowlands impacts the flora. The vegetation in the highlands tends to be green and lush, with tropical woodland in places. The lowland areas tend to have arid and semi-arid vegetation, with many thorny shrubs and cacti, and almost bare volcanic rock elsewhere.\n\nAccording to a 1952 study by Thor Heyerdahl and Arne Skjølsvold, remains of potsherds and other artifacts from several sites on the islands suggest visitation by South American peoples in pre-Columbian era. The group located an Inca flute and shards from more than 130 pieces of ceramics, which were later identified as pre-Incan. However, no remains of graves, ceremonial vessels and constructions have ever been found, suggesting no permanent settlement occurred before the Spanish arrived in the 16th century. It is not clear who the first visitors to the islands were, but they were probably sailors blown off course or people on hapless fishing boats blown out to sea. Most of them were likely unimpressed by the lack of fresh water on the islands. Whether the Incas ever made it here is disputed; in 1572, Spanish chronicler Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa claimed that Topa Inca Yupanqui, the second Sapa Inca of the Inca Empire had visited the archipelago, but there is little evidence for this, and many experts consider it a far-fetched legend, especially since the Incas were not seafaring people.\nEuropean discovery of the Galápagos Islands occurred when Spaniard Fray Tomás de Berlanga, the fourth Bishop of Panama, sailed to Peru to settle a dispute between Francisco Pizarro and his lieutenants. De Berlanga's vessel drifted off course when the winds diminished, and his party reached the islands on 10 March 1535.\nThe Galápagos Islands first appeared on the maps of Gerardus Mercator and Abraham Ortelius, in about 1570. The islands were named \"Insulae de los Galopegos\" (Islands of the Tortoises) in reference to the giant tortoises found there.\n\nThe first English captain to visit the Galápagos Islands was Richard Hawkins, in 1593. Until the early 19th century, the archipelago was often used as a hideout by mostly English pirates who attacked Spanish galleons carrying gold and silver from South America to Spain.\nIn 1793, James Colnett described the flora and fauna of Galápagos, and suggested the islands could be used as base for the whalers operating in the Pacific Ocean. He drew the first accurate navigation charts of the islands. Whalers and maritime fur traders killed and captured thousands of the Galápagos tortoises to extract their fat. The tortoises could be kept on board ship as a means of providing of fresh protein, as these animals could survive for several months on board without any food or water. The hunting of the tortoises was responsible for greatly diminishing, and in some cases eliminating, certain species. Along with whalers came the fur-seal hunters, who brought the population of this animal close to extinction.\n\nThe first known permanent human resident on Galápagos was Patrick Watkins, an Irish sailor who was marooned on the Island Floreana from 1807 to 1809. According to later accounts, Watkins managed to survive by hunting, growing vegetables and trading with visiting whalers, before finally stealing an open boat and navigating to Guayaquil.\n\nIn 1818 the Nantucket whaleship \"Globe\", under Captain George Washington Gardner, discovered a \"mother lode\" of sperm whales some thousand miles west of the South American coast approximately at the equator. He returned to Nantucket in 1820 with more than 2000 barrels of sperm whale oil and the news of his discovery. This led to an influx of whaleships to exploit the new whaling ground and the Galápagos Islands became a frequent stop for the whalers both before and after visiting what came to be known as the Offshore Grounds. This led to the establishment in the Galápagos Islands of a kind of unofficial \"post office\" where whaleships stopped to pick up and drop off letters as well as for provisioning and repairing.\n\nIn October 1820, the whaleship \"Essex\", out of Nantucket, stopped at the Galápagos for these purposes on its way to the Offshore Grounds. On what was then known as Charles Island, while most of the crew were hunting tortoises one crewmember, English boatsteerer Thomas Chappel, for reasons still unclear, lit a fire which quickly burned out of control. Some of the tortoise hunters had a narrow escape and had to run a gauntlet of fire to get back to the ship. Soon almost the entire island was in flames. Crewmembers reported that after a day of sailing away they could still see the flames against the horizon. One crewmember who returned to the Galápagos several years afterward described the entire island as still a blackened wasteland.\n\nEcuador annexed the Galápagos Islands on 12 February 1832, naming them the Archipelago of Ecuador. This new name added to several names that had been, and are still, used to refer to the archipelago. The first governor of Galápagos, General José de Villamil, brought a group of convicts to populate the island of Floreana, and in October 1832, some artisans and farmers joined them.\n\nThe voyage of the \"Beagle\" brought the survey ship HMS \"Beagle\", under captain Robert FitzRoy, to the Galápagos on 15 September 1835 to survey approaches to harbours. The captain and others on board, including his companion, the young naturalist Charles Darwin, made observations on the geology and biology on Chatham, Charles, Albemarle and James islands before they left on 20 October to continue on their round-the-world expedition. Primarily a geologist at the time, Darwin was impressed by the quantity of volcanic craters they saw, later referring to the archipelago as \"that land of craters.\" His study of several volcanic formations over the 5 weeks he stayed in the islands, led to several important geological discoveries, including the first, correct explanation for how volcanic tuff is formed. Darwin noticed the mockingbirds differed between islands, though he thought the birds now known as Darwin's finches were unrelated to each other, and did not bother labelling them by island. Nicholas Lawson, acting Governor of Galápagos for the Republic of the Equator, met them on \"Charles Island\", and as they walked to the prison colony, Lawson told Darwin the tortoises differed from island to island. Towards the end of the voyage, Darwin speculated that the distribution of the mockingbirds and the tortoises might \"undermine the stability of Species\". When specimens of birds were analyzed on his return to England, it was found that many apparently different kinds of birds were species of finches, which were unique to islands. These facts were crucial in Darwin's development of his theory of natural selection explaining evolution, which was presented in \"On the Origin of Species\".\n\nJosé Valdizán and Manuel Julián Cobos tried a new colonization, beginning the exploitation of a type of lichen found in the islands (\"Roccella portentosa\") used as a coloring agent. After the assassination of Valdizán by some of his workers, Cobos brought from the continent a group of more than a hundred workers to San Cristóbal Island, and tried his luck at planting sugar cane. He ruled his plantation with an iron hand, which led to his assassination in 1904. In 1897, Antonio Gil began another plantation on Isabela Island.\n\nOver the course of a whole year, from September 1904, an expedition of the Academy of Sciences of California, led by Rollo Beck, stayed in the Galápagos collecting scientific material on geology, entomology, ornithology, botany, zoology and herpetology. Another expedition from that Academy was done in 1932 (Templeton Crocker Expedition) to collect insects, fish, shells, fossils, birds and plants.\n\nFor a long time during the early 1900s and at least through 1929, a cash-strapped Ecuador had reached out for potential buyers of the islands to alleviate financial troubles at home. The US had repeatedly expressed its interest in buying the islands for military use as they were positioned strategically guarding the Panama Canal. Besides the United States, Japan, Germany and Chile also expressed interest in establishing bases in the islands at the turn of the century. Chile had previously acquired the Straits of Magellan and Easter Island for strategic reasons and lieutenant Gregorio Santa Cruz argued in 1903 that possessing an island in equatorial waters, like the Galápagos, would be of great benefit since the geopolitical situation of Chile was expected to drastically change when the Panama Canal opened. Another benefit would be to widen the security radius of Chile.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, a small wave of European settlers arrived in the islands. There occurred a series of unsolved disappearances on the island of Floreana in the 1930s among the largely European expatriate residents at the time. \"The Galápagos Affair: Satan Came to Eden\" is a 2013 feature-length documentary film about the same. Ecuadorian laws provided all colonists with the possibility of receiving twenty hectares each of free land, the right to maintain their citizenship, freedom from taxation for the first ten years in Galápagos, and the right to hunt and fish freely on all uninhabited islands where they might settle. The first European colonists to arrive were Norwegians who settled briefly on Floreana, before moving on to San Cristobal and Santa Cruz. A few years later, other colonists from Europe, America and Ecuador started arriving on the islands, seeking a simpler life. Descendants of the Norwegian Kastdalen family and the German Angermeyer still live on the islands.\n\nDuring World War II, Ecuador authorized the United States to establish a naval base in Baltra Island, and radar stations in other strategic locations. Baltra was established as a United States Army Air Force base. Baltra was given the name of \"Beta Base\" along with \"Alpha Base\" in Nicaragua and \"Gamma Base\" in Salinas (continental Ecuador). The Crews stationed at Baltra and the aforementioned locations established a geographic triangle of protection in charge of patrolling the Pacific for enemy submarines, and also provided protection for the Panama Canal. After the war, the facilities were given to the government of Ecuador. Today, the island continues as an official Ecuadorian military base. The foundations and other remains of the US base can still be seen as one crosses the island.\nIn 1946, a penal colony was established in Isabela Island, but it was suspended in 1959.\n\nThe Galápagos became a national park in 1959, and tourism started in the 1960s, imposing several restrictions upon the human population already living on the island. However, opportunities in the tourism, fishing, and farming industries attracted a mass of poor fishermen and farmers from mainland Ecuador. In the 1990s and 2000s, violent confrontations between parts of the local population and the Galápagos National Park Service occurred, including capturing and killing giant tortoises and holding staff of the Galápagos National Park Service hostage to obtain higher annual sea cucumber quotas.\n\nThe islands are administered by a provincial government. It was made a province by presidential decree by President Guillermo Rodríguez Lara on 18 February 1973. The province is divided into cantons, each covering certain islands. The capital is Puerto Baquerizo Moreno.\n\nThe largest ethnic group is composed of Ecuadorian Mestizos, the mixed descendants of Spanish colonists and indigenous Native Americans, who arrived mainly in the last century from the continental part of Ecuador. Some descendants of the early European and American colonists on the islands also still remain on the islands.\n\nIn 1959, approximately 1,000 to 2,000 people called the islands their home. In 1972 a census in the archipelago recorded a population of 3,488. By the 1980s, this number had risen to more than 15,000 people, and in 2010 there were 25,124 people in the Galápagos.\n\nFive of the islands are inhabited: Baltra, Floreana, Isabela, San Cristóbal and Santa Cruz.\n\nOptions for flying into the Galápagos are limited to two islands: San Cristobal (San Cristóbal Airport) and Baltra (Seymour Airport). Private aircraft must use Baltra as it is the airport equipped with overnight plane accommodations. Seymour Airport on Baltra was recently renovated (2012–2013) to accommodate larger planes.\n\nUntil 1969 the only way to visit was on a private or chartered vessel. There was no regular air service until Forrest Nelson's Hotel Galápagos began the first organized tours in April 1969. Soon other travel companies brought in tour ships and yachts, and local fishermen began converting their wooden boats for rudimentary cruising with guests. These vessels were the main source of overnight accommodations in the Galápagos. Today there are about 85 yachts and ships equipped for overnight guests. In 2006 the Baltra military governed island, was opened up to limited overnight camping. Baltra also requires permits by the military government for overnight stays on the beach. Other inhabited islands also allow camping on the beaches designated as \"recreational\" use to the locals. All of these camping permits are limited to number of people and nights, with most nights not to exceed three.\n\nLand based hotels are opening on the inhabited islands of San Cristobal, Santa Cruz, Floreana and Isabela. By 2012, more than half the visitors to Galápagos made their tours using day boats and these small hotels. Restaurants, easy access and economy make this an attractive travel option. The cruise tours are still the best way to see all the complex environment and wildlife of the islands.\n\nThere are only 116 visitor sites in the Galápagos: 54 land sites and 62 scuba-diving or snorkeling sites. Small groups are allowed to visit in 2- to 4-hour shifts only, to limit impact on the area. All groups are accompanied by licensed guides.\n\nThough the first protective legislation for the Galápagos was enacted in 1930 and supplemented in 1936, it was not until the late 1950s that positive action was taken to control what was happening to the native flora and fauna. In 1955, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature organized a fact-finding mission to the Galápagos. Two years later, in 1957, UNESCO, in cooperation with the government of Ecuador, sent another expedition to study the conservation situation and choose a site for a research station.\n\nIn 1959, the centenary year of Charles Darwin's publication of \"The Origin of Species\", the Ecuadorian government declared 97.5% of the archipelago's land area a national park, excepting areas already colonised. The Charles Darwin Foundation (CDF) was founded the same year. The core responsibility of CDF, an international nongovernmental organization (NGO) constituted in Belgium, is to conduct research and provide the research findings to the government for effective management of Galápagos. CDF's research efforts began with the establishment of the Charles Darwin Research Station on Santa Cruz Island in 1964. During the early years, conservation programs, such as eradication of introduced species and protection of native species, were carried out by research station personnel. Now much of that work is accomplished by the Galápagos National Park Service using the research findings and methodologies developed by CDF.\n\nIn 1986, the 70,000 square kilometers (27,000 sq mi) of ocean surrounding the islands was declared a marine reserve, second in size only to Australia's Great Barrier Reef. In 1990, the archipelago became a whale sanctuary. UNESCO recognised the islands in 1978 as a World Heritage Site and in 1985, as a biosphere reserve. This was later extended in December 2001 to include the marine reserve.\nIn July 2010, the World Heritage Committee agreed to remove the Galápagos Islands from its list of precious sites endangered by environmental threats or overuse.\n\nNoteworthy species include:\n\nIntroduced plants and animals, such as feral goats, cats, and cattle, brought accidentally or willingly to the islands by humans, represent the main threat to Galápagos. Quick to reproduce and with no natural predators, these alien species decimated the habitats of native species. The native animals, lacking natural predators on the islands, are defenseless to introduced predators.\n\nThere are over 700 introduced plant species today. There are only 500 native and endemic species. This difference is creating a major problem for the islands and the natural species that inhabit them. These plants have invaded large areas and eliminated endemic species in the humid zones of San Cristobal, Floreana, Isabela and Santa Cruz. Some of the most harmful introduced plants are the guayaba or guava (\"Psidium guajava\"), avocado (\"Persea americana\"), cascarilla (\"Cinchona pubescens\"), balsa (\"Ochroma pyramidale\"), hill raspberry (\"Rubus niveus\"), various citrus (orange, grapefruit, lemon), floripondio, higuerilla (\"Ricinus communis\") trees and the elephant grass, \"Pennisetum purpureum\".\n\nMany species were introduced to the Galápagos by pirates. Thor Heyerdahl quoted documents that mention the Viceroy of Peru, knowing that British pirates ate the goats that they themselves had released in the islands, ordered dogs to be freed there to eliminate the goats. Also, when colonization of Floreana by José de Villamil failed, he ordered the goats, donkeys, cattle and other animals from the farms in Floreana be transferred to other islands for the purpose of later colonization.\n\nNon-native goats, pigs, dogs, rats, cats, mice, sheep, horses, donkeys, cows, poultry, ants, cockroaches, and some parasites inhabit the islands today. Dogs and cats attack the tame birds and destroy the nests of birds, land tortoises, and marine turtles. They sometimes kill small Galápagos tortoises and iguanas. Pigs are even more harmful, covering larger areas and destroying the nests of tortoises, turtles and iguanas, as well as eating the animals' native food. Pigs also knock down vegetation in their search for roots and insects. This problem abounds in Cerro Azul volcano and Isabela, and in Santiago, pigs may be the cause of the disappearance of the land iguanas that were so abundant when Darwin visited. The black rat (\"Rattus rattus\") attacks small Galápagos tortoises when they leave the nest, so in Pinzón they stopped the reproduction for a period of more than 50 years; only adults were found on that island. Also, where the black rat is found, the endemic rat has disappeared. Cattle and donkeys eat all the available vegetation and compete with native species for the scarce water. In 1959, fishermen introduced one male and two female goats to Pinta island; by 1973, the National Park service estimated the population of goats to be over 30,000 individuals. Goats were also introduced to Marchena in 1967 and to Rabida in 1971. A goat eradication program, however, cleared the goats from Pinta and Santiago and most of the goat population from Isabela.\nIn fact, by 2006 all feral pigs, donkeys and non-sterile goats had been eliminated from Santiago and Isabela, the largest islands with the worst problems due to non-native mammals.\n\nSix species of small non-native vertebrates have established self-sufficient populations in Galápagos and may become invasive: Fowler’s snouted tree frog \"Scinax quinquefasciatus\", common house gecko \"Hemidactylus frenatus\", mourning gecko \"Lepidodactylus lugubris\", dwarf gecko \"Gonatodes caudiscutatus\", Peters' leaf-toed gecko \"Phyllodactylus reissii\", and smooth-billed ani \"Crotophaga ani\". Domestic fowl \"Gallus gallus\" holds feral populations, which may have self-sufficient populations, but evidence is unclear.\n\nThe fast-growing poultry industry on the inhabited islands has been cause for concern from local conservationists, who fear domestic birds could introduce disease into the endemic wild bird populations.\n\nThe Galápagos marine sanctuary is under threat from a host of illegal fishing activities, in addition to other problems of development. The most pressing threat to the Marine Reserve comes from local, mainland and foreign fishing targeting marine life illegally within the Reserve, such as sharks (hammerheads and other species) for their fins, and the harvest of sea cucumbers out of season. Development threatens both land and sea species. The growth of both the tourism industry and local populations fuelled by high birth rates and illegal immigration threaten the wildlife of the Archipelago. The grounding of the oil tanker \"Jessica\" in 2001 and the subsequent oil spill brought this threat to world attention.\n\nIn 2007, UNESCO put the Galápagos Islands on their List of World Heritage in Danger because of threats posed by invasive species, unbridled tourism and overfishing.\nOn 29 July 2010, the World Heritage Committee decided to remove the Galápagos Islands from the list because the Committee found significant progress had been made by Ecuador in addressing these problems.\n\nOn 28 January 2008, Galápagos National Park official Victor Carrion announced 53 sea lions (13 pups, 25 youngsters, 9 males and 6 females) were killed at the Galápagos Islands nature reserve on Pinta, with their heads caved in. In 2001, poachers killed 35 male sea lions.\n\nThe Galápagos Islands were short-listed as a candidate to be one of the New7Wonders of Nature by the New7Wonders of Nature Foundation. As of February 2009, the archipelago was ranked first in Group B, the category for islands.\n\nThe islands' biodiversity is under threat from several sources. The human population is growing at an unsustainable rate of 8% per year (1995). Introduced species have caused damage, and in 1996 a US$5 million, five-year eradication plan commenced in an attempt to rid the islands of introduced species such as goats, rats, deer, and donkeys. Except for the rats, the project was essentially completed in 2006. Rats have only been eliminated from the smaller Galápagos Islands of Rábida and Pinzón.\n\nEl Niño has adversely affected the marine ecosystem. In January 2001, an oil slick from a stranded tanker threatened the islands, but winds and shifting ocean currents helped disperse the oil before much damage was done. The devastating El Nino of 1982-83 saw almost six times as much rain as normal in the Galapagos and created a wildlife catastrophe. The 1997–98 El Niño adversely affected wildlife in the waters surrounding the islands, as the waters were warmer than normal. Corals and barnacles suffered, hammerhead sharks were driven away, and most of the island's seabirds failed to breed in 1997–98. The mortality rate of marine iguanas rose as the green algae they feed on was replaced by inedible red algae. During the 1982–83 El Niño, 70% of the marine iguanas starved to death because of this.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17812", "title": "Geography of Liechtenstein", "text": "Geography of Liechtenstein\n\nThe principality of Liechtenstein encompasses most of the eastern half of the Rhine Valley, wedged between Austria and Switzerland. Majority of the country's population is found in the western half along the Rhine River. Along with Uzbekistan, Liechtenstein is one of only two doubly landlocked countries in the world.\n\nGeographic coordinates: \n\nArea: 160 km² (land, 0 km² water)\n\nLand boundaries\n\nLake\n\nLand use\n\nTerrain\n\nNatural resources:\n\nExtreme points:\n\n\nContinental; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow or rain; cool to moderately warm, cloudy, humid summers, great variety of microclimates based on elevation\n\n\"Party to:\"\n\nAir Pollution,\nAir Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants,\nAir Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,\nAir Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,\nAir Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,\nBiodiversity,\nClimate Change,\nClimate Change-Kyoto Protocol,\nDesertification,\nEndangered Species,\nHazardous Wastes,\nOzone Layer Protection,\nWetlands,\n\n\"Signed, but not ratified:\"\n\nLaw of the Sea\n"}
{"id": "58940298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58940298", "title": "Geology of the British Indian Ocean Territory", "text": "Geology of the British Indian Ocean Territory\n\nThe geology of the British Indian Ocean Territory comprises the Chagos Archipelago—the above water portion of the Chagos Bank. Formed from hotspot volcanism, the Chagos Bank was separated from the Nazareth Bank 36 million years ago by activity on the Central Indian Ridge. Aside from plate boundaries, the region is one of the most seismically active and earthquakes have caused subsidence of some islands.\n\nDescribed by Charles Darwin as \"a ledge of brecciated coral rocks projecting seawards from the outer shore,\" the Chagos Archipelago has unusual conglomerate platforms. The islands lack Eemian age carbonates, which are present in the Seychelles for reasons that are not clear—hypothesized to include local storm erosion.\n\nThe offshore waters around the archipelago contain deep-sea ferromanganese nodules, with globular, dendritic and laminated microstructures formed from iron-manganese oxide.\nDue to the US military presence on the island the US Geological Survey has conducted water resource analysis since 1984.\n"}
{"id": "55470491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55470491", "title": "Glinsko Vrelo", "text": "Glinsko Vrelo\n\nGlinsko Vrelo is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "1120826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1120826", "title": "HMS Discovery", "text": "HMS Discovery\n\nEleven ships of the Royal Navy and a reserve shore establishment of the Canadian Navy have borne the name HMS/HMCS \"Discovery\", while ships of other branches have also used the name:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53755038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53755038", "title": "Hesperia (mythology)", "text": "Hesperia (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Hesperia (Ancient Greek: Ἑσπερια) may refer to the following characters and places:\n\n"}
{"id": "23755364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23755364", "title": "ISO 3166-2:PS", "text": "ISO 3166-2:PS\n\nISO 3166-2:PS is the entry for the State of Palestine in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for the State of Palestine, it claims the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, but in fact controls only about 40% of the West Bank. ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 16 governorates.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of the State of Palestine. The second part is three letters.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nISO 639-1 codes are used to represent subdivision names in the following administrative languages:\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27015353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27015353", "title": "Inventing the Flat Earth", "text": "Inventing the Flat Earth\n\nInventing the Flat Earth (1991; ) is a book by historian Jeffrey Burton Russell debunking the notion that medieval Christians believed the earth was flat.\n\n"}
{"id": "3081691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3081691", "title": "Karagiye", "text": "Karagiye\n\nKaragiye (Kazakh: Қарақия ойпаты, Karagiye means \"Black Jaw\" in Turkic) is a long karst trench close to the Caspian Sea. At approximately below sea level it is the lowest point in Central Asia, Kazakhstan, and the former Soviet Union. It is also known as the \"Karagiye Depression\" and \"Karagiye Mountain Trench\".\n\nThe trench was formed as soluble limestone, dolomite and gypsum dissolved forming potholes, funnels and caves that eventually collapsed. Today the trench features many scarps and offsets and generates long rain clouds caused by the air rising above it. There is a vernal lake in the south-west of the trench and a stream rising from a drilled well that disappears back into the ground within the trench.\n\nThe trench is inhabited by mouflon, corsac, snakes, hares and vultures. It is the only place within the Mangyshlak Peninsula that mushrooms grow and these are collected by locals.\n\n"}
{"id": "53968306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53968306", "title": "Kirazlıbent Nature Park", "text": "Kirazlıbent Nature Park\n\nKirazlıbent Nature Park () is a nature park located in Eyüp district of Istanbul Province, Turkey. \n\nKirazlıbent Nature Park is situated inside the Belgrad Forest in Eyüp. It is about in distance west of Bahçeköy and east of Kemerburgaz. The area was declared a nature park by the Ministry of Environment and Forest in 2011, and is one of the nine nature parks inside the Belgrad Forest. It covers an area of about . The protected area is named after the dam Kirazlıbent, which was built by the Ottoman sultan Mahmud II (reigned 1808–1839) on Kirazlı Creek in 1818.\n\nThe nature park offers outdoor recreation activities such as hiking, cycling and picnicing for visitors on daily basis.[2] There are playgrounds for children. Admission is charged for visitors and vehicles.\n\nThe plants found in the forest area of the nature park are sessile oak (\"Quercus petraea\"), Kasnak oak (\"Quercus vulcanica\"), sweet chestnut (\"Castanea sativa\"), hornbeam (\"Carpinus betulus\"), black pine (\"Pinus nigra\"), oriental beech (\"Fagus orientalis\"), common ivy (\"Hedera helix\"), (\"Smilax excelsa\"), butcher's-broom (\"Ruscus aculeatus\") and tree heath (\"Erica arborea\").\n\nAnimals observed in the nature park are the mammals red deer, red fox, wild boar, golden jackal, porcupine, squirrel, the reptile tortoise and the bird species goldfinch, passer and magpie.\n\n"}
{"id": "5939070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5939070", "title": "Landscape epidemiology", "text": "Landscape epidemiology\n\nLandscape epidemiology draws some of its roots from the field of landscape ecology. Just as the discipline of landscape ecology is concerned with analyzing both pattern and process in ecosystems across time and space, landscape epidemiology can be used to analyze both risk patterns and environmental risk factors. This field emerges from the theory that most vectors, hosts and pathogens are commonly tied to the landscape as environmental determinants control their distribution and abundance. In 1966, Evgeniy Pavlovsky introduced the concept of natural nidality or focality, defined by the idea that microscale disease foci are determined by the entire ecosystem. With the recent availability of new computing technologies such as geographic information systems, remote sensing, statistical methods including spatial statistics and theories of landscape ecology, the concept of landscape epidemiology has been applied analytically to a variety of disease systems, including malaria, hantavirus, Lyme disease and Chagas' disease.\n"}
{"id": "14950096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14950096", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in China", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in China\n\nThis is a list of UNESCO World Heritage sites in China. China has 53, ranking second in the world. China ratified The Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage on 12 December 1985. These sites comprise some of the most essential part of China's valuable and rich tourism resources.\n\nSince joining the International Convention Concerning the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage in 1985, China has 53 world heritage sites to date; of these 36 are cultural heritage sites, 13 are natural heritage sites, and 4 are cultural and natural (mixed) sites, ranking second in the world.\n\nIn addition, there are also several Chinese documents inscribed in UNESCO's list Memory of the World, which registers the world's documentary heritage. Furthermore, China has a rich non-material cultural heritage, with several of them inscribed on UNESCO's list of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.\n\nFollowing is a map of the World Heritage sites in China.\n\nNumbered sites around Beijing: 1. Great Wall; 2. Forbidden City; 3. Zhoukoudian; 4. Summer Palace; 5. Temple of Heaven; 6. Ming Dynasty Tombs; 7. Eastern Qing Tombs; 8. Western Qing Tombs\n\nLegend: Cultural Heritage site; Natural Heritage site; Mixed site\n\nThere are the sites China has submitted to the UNESCO World Heritage tentative list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "317147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317147", "title": "List of airports by IATA code: V", "text": "List of airports by IATA code: V\n\n"}
{"id": "860587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=860587", "title": "List of colonial governors of Ubangi-Shari", "text": "List of colonial governors of Ubangi-Shari\n\nFor continuation after independence, \"see:\" Heads of State of the Central African Republic (and Central African Empire)\n\n"}
{"id": "1008653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1008653", "title": "List of countries and dependencies and their capitals in native languages", "text": "List of countries and dependencies and their capitals in native languages\n\nThe following chart lists countries and dependencies along with their capital cities, in English as well as any additional official language(s).\n\n"}
{"id": "58503347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58503347", "title": "List of countries by median years of schooling", "text": "List of countries by median years of schooling\n\nThis is a list of 189 countries ordered by the median amount of years that the people in them go to school. The source data comes from the Human Development Index from the United Nations Development Programme's Human Development Report. The latest report was released on 14 September 2018 and is based on data collected in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "9817129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9817129", "title": "List of geographical spits", "text": "List of geographical spits\n\nThere are many examples of spits around the world. Some of which include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15025584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15025584", "title": "List of museums in Tokyo", "text": "List of museums in Tokyo\n\nThe following is a list of museums and art galleries in Tokyo. To use the sortable table, click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6083192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6083192", "title": "List of tourist attractions in Sheffield", "text": "List of tourist attractions in Sheffield\n\nAs a large city, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, England, has many tourist attractions from performing arts centres to museums, shopping centres and public parks. Below is a list of some of the more famous and visited:\n\n"}
{"id": "50160445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50160445", "title": "Manouchehr Sotodeh", "text": "Manouchehr Sotodeh\n\nManouchehr Sotodeh (, 19 July 1913 – 8 April 2016) was an Iranian geographer and scholar of Persian literature. He wrote 60 books and nearly 300 articles. He is the first Iranian who published the first dialectal dictionary. He was also a professor of University of Tehran.\n\n"}
{"id": "22346290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22346290", "title": "Nature reserves in Jordan", "text": "Nature reserves in Jordan\n\nThere are at least seven nature reserves in Jordan. In 1966, the organization that would later start Jordan's nature reserves, the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature, was founded. RSCN's first efforts involved bringing back severely endangered species. In 1973, RSCN, was given the right to issue hunting licenses, giving RSCN an upper hand in preventing extinction. The first step was the founding of Jordan's first nature reserve, Shaumari Wildlife Reserve, in 1975. The primary purpose was to create means to breed endangered species, specifically: the Arabian oryx, gazelles, ostriches and Persian onagers in their natural environment.\n\nIn 1994, shortly after Dana Biosphere Reserve was established, RSCN began its Research and Survey section, made up of experienced researchers with the primary goal of collecting information at the reserves needed to create a sustainable living environment for wild animals through scientific research. Shortly thereafter, Wild Jordan was created as a business branch of RSCN dealing with socio-economic projects. In 1999, RSCN started a training program to build local and regional skill in conserving nature. RSCN raised more awareness in 2005 with a \"Save Jordan's Trees\" campaign. Jordan's sixth and latest nature reserve, Dibeen Forest Reserve, was created in 2004, cementing of protected natural landscape throughout Jordan.\n\nIn addition, there are eight proposed nature reserves in Jordan, and two more sites that are possible candidates for preservation.\n\nDana Biosphere Reserve, often simply called Dana Nature Reserve, is Jordan's largest reserve, located in and around the town of Dana in the mountains east of Wadi Araba. The geography of the reserve is characterized by steep cliffs in rocky wadis covered by small trees and shrubs. The varied geology switches from limestone to sandstone to granite. Some illegal activities such as grazing and woodcutting continue. Illegal hunting threatens ibex and chukar populations.\n\nMujib Nature Reserve, commonly known as Wadi Mujib, is a long canyon feeding the Dead Sea running through the ancient region of Moab and the lowest nature reserve in the world. Directly east of the Dead Sea, Wadi Mujib is made up by a network of freshwater streams, making an otherwise arid area more fertile. The lush riverbeds provide support for aquatic plants. As well as containing 300 species of plants, Wadi Mujib contains at least 10 species of carnivores and other animals, including the hyrax, badger, and the Nubian ibex which was reintroduced into the wild by RSCN. Illegal hunting continues to impede efforts to reach a sustainable number of wild ibexes.\n\nAjloun Forest Reserve is in north Jordan, near Jerash and Ajloun, and close to the Ajloun Castle. The reserve consists of rolling hills in a Mediterranean-like environment, covered in evergreen oaks, as well as strawberry and pistachio trees, among others. Stone martens, jackals, red foxes, striped hyenas, Persian squirrels, porcupines, and wolves inhabit this area. Privately owned lands surrounding the reserve pose threats, including illegitimate access to the reserve, resulting in illegal hunting, woodcutting, and grazing. Cooperation with local inhabitants has resulted in increased awareness in the community regarding the preservation of the forest.\n\nDibeen Forest, close to the ancient Roman city of Jerash, is the newest reserve in Jordan, established in 2004. The forest is a pine-oak habitat, housing the Aleppo pine and marking the geographical limit of this type of forest. Animal inhabitants such as the Persian squirrel were main reasons for the establishment of the reserve and were considered top priority. Strawberry, pistachio, and wild olive trees also grow in the reserve. Trash, notably plastic, presents a major problem in the reserve, often the result of careless visitors.\n\nThe Azraq Wetlands, located in Jordan's eastern desert near the town of Azraq, is RSCN's only wetlands reserve. The reserve, once a popular stopover for millions of migratory birds going from Africa to Eurasia, is now severely depleted due to over-pumping to support Jordan's growing population. In 1978, the reserve was established as an effort to conserve the oasis. Between 1981 and 1993, water levels decreased sharply, concluding with the drying up of the springs in 1992. Azraq today only makes up 0.04% of its former size. Water levels are maintained by RSCN in order to save indigenous fish species such as the Azraq Killfish and to keep the site a tourist destination. Efforts have been partially successful; some birds have returned and killfish have increased in numbers, but attempts to increase the water mass by 10% of the original size have been unsuccessful. Water pumping and lack of manpower and wetland experience keep water levels at a low.\n\nShaumari Wildlife Reserve is located in the eastern Jordanian desert, close to Azraq Wetland Reserve. The geology comprises desert wadis making up 65% of the area and Hammada areas covered in black flint forming 35% of the reserve. Founded in 1975, Shaumari was founded for the wildlife in the desert area. One of the main goals of the reserve has been to bring back locally extinct species, notably the Arabian oryx, into the wild. In 1978, 4 Arabian oryxs were brought to the reserve for a breeding program. Starting in 1983, 31 oryxs were released into the wild, successfully returning the oryx into its native environment. Other species, such as Somali ostriches, Persian onagers and gazelles reside in the reserve. Before the establishment of the reserve, hunting nearly annihilated local animal populations, a problem which RSCN has been successful in dealing with.\n\nOn July 13, 2011, the Fifa Nature Reserve was officially declared. It is located in the south-western part of Jordan. The reserve has an area of 23.2 km. In part lying well below sea level, the reserve contains the salt plant pattern and the tropical plant pattern.\n\nThe Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature has expressed interest in creating up to nine new nature reserves in Jordan. One of these, Fifa, was established in 2011. There were also two other sites mentioned in two reports issued in 1979 and 1998 on the feasibility of new reserve sites around the country. The nine that RSCN have expressed interest in include:\n\nThe two additional sites are:\n\n"}
{"id": "16278360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278360", "title": "Outline of Albania", "text": "Outline of Albania\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Albania:\n\nRepublic of Albania – sovereign country located on the Balkan Peninsula in Southern Europe. It has a coast on the Adriatic Sea to the west, and on the Ionian Sea to the southwest. It is less than from Italy, across the Strait of Otranto. Albania is a parliamentary democracy that is transforming its economy into a market-oriented system. The Albanian capital, Tirana, is home to 350,000 of the country's 3.6 million population. As a result of the opening of the country in the post-communist era, Albania is now undergoing a development boom as its telecommunications, transport and utilities infrastructure is being revamped.\n\n\nGeography of Albania\n\nEnvironment of Albania\n\n\nRegions of Albania\n\nList of ecoregions in Albania\n\nAdministrative divisions of Albania\n\nAlbania is divided into twelve counties (, sing. \"qark\" (official term); but often \"prefektura\", sing. \"prefekturë\", sometimes translated as prefecture). Each contains several municipalities:\n\nMunicipalities of Albania\nSince the 2015 local administration reform, there are 61 municipalities in Albania.\n\nPolitics of Albania\n\nGovernment of Albania\n\n\nJudicial system of Albania\n\nForeign relations of Albania\n\nThe Republic of Albania is a member of:\n\n\nLaw of Albania\n\nMilitary of Albania\n\nLocal government in Albania\n\n\n\nCulture of Albania\n\n\nSports in Albania\n\nEconomy of Albania\n\nEducation in Albania\n\nAlbania\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28211418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28211418", "title": "Picture the Homeless", "text": "Picture the Homeless\n\nPicture the Homeless (PTH) is an American homeless person–led rights organization founded in 1999 based in the New York, New York. It focuses on human rights, housing, police violence and other social justice issues. It was housed originally in Judson Memorial Church, which still hosts its Longest Night of the Year memorial event, and was located for a time in El Barrio and 2427 Morris Avenue in the Bronx. It is currently based on 126th Street in Manhattan.\n\nThe group is a nonprofit organization whose goal is to end homelessness. It believes that people who are homeless must become an organized, effective voice for systemic change. PTH attempts to develop leadership among homeless people to impact policies and systems that affect their lives. They also endeavor to create space for them, and their agenda, within the broader social justice movement. They are strong proponents of diverting funds from the New York City Department of Homeless Services out of the shelter system and into community land trusts. To this end, the organization founded a coalition called The New York City Community Land Initiative with The New Economy Project and other groups.\n\n\"New York Times\" writer Nikita Stewart in December 2017 described it as \"one of the nation's few advocacy organizations founded by homeless people and led by people who are experiencing or have experienced homelessness\" and that \"the group has made itself a formidable influence on city policy.\"\n\n\nIn 2009 four members of Picture the Homeless traveled to Budapest, Hungary to meet homeless and other activists, present their work in New York and to mutually exchange experiences. In Budapest, the group was instrumental in founding Hungary’s first homeless-led advocacy group called A Város Mindenkié (The City is For All).\n"}
{"id": "12595912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12595912", "title": "Quarry Falls (Macon County)", "text": "Quarry Falls (Macon County)\n\nQuarry Falls is a small waterfall (or perhaps large rapid in high water) located beside US Hwy. 64 west of Highlands, North Carolina, United States. It is best known for the large, deep pool at the bottom and is a popular place for swimming during warm weather. Quarry Falls is known to the locals as \"Bust-Your-Butt-Falls\" or \"Sliding Rock\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3962513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3962513", "title": "Research stations in Antarctica", "text": "Research stations in Antarctica\n\nA number of governments have set up permanent research stations in Antarctica and these bases are widely distributed. Unlike the drifting ice stations set up in the Arctic, the research stations of the Antarctic are constructed either on rock or on ice that is (for practical purposes) fixed in place.\n\nMany of the stations are staffed around the year. A total of 40 countries (as of October 2006), all signatories to the Antarctic Treaty, operate seasonal (summer) and year-round research stations on the continent.\nThe population of people performing and supporting scientific research on the continent and nearby islands varies from approximately 4,000 during the summer season to 1,000 during winter (June). In addition to these permanent stations, approximately 30 field camps are established each summer to support specific projects.\n\nDuring the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration in the late 19th century, the first bases on the continent were established. In 1898, Carsten Borchgrevink, a Norwegian/British explorer, led the British Antarctic Expedition to Cape Adare, where he established the first Antarctic base on Ridley Beach. The expedition is often referred to now as the 'Southern Cross' Expedition, after their ship's name. Most of the staff were Norwegian, but the funds for the expedition were British, provided by Sir George Newnes. The 10 members of the expedition explored Robinson Bay to the west of Cape Adare by dog teams, and later, after being picked up by the ship at the base, went ashore on the Ross Ice Shelf for brief journeys. The expedition hut is still in good condition and visited frequently by tourists.\n\nThe hut was later occupied by Scott's Northern Party under the command of Victor Campbell for a year in 1911, after its attempt to explore the eastern end of the ice shelf discovered Roald Amundsen already ashore preparing for his assault on the South Pole.\n\nIn 1903, Dr William S. Bruce's Scottish National Antarctic Expedition set off to Antarctica, with one of its aims to establish a meteorological station in the area. After the expedition failed to find land, Bruce decided to head back to the Laurie Island in the South Orkneys and find an anchorage there. The islands were well-situated as a site for a meteorological station, and their relative proximity to the South American mainland allowed a permanent station to be established. Bruce instituted a comprehensive programme of work, involving meteorological readings, trawling for marine samples, botanical excursions, and the collection of biological and geological specimens.\n\nThe major task completed during this time was the construction of a stone building, christened \"Omond House\". This was to act as living accommodation for the parties that would remain on Laurie Island to operate the proposed meteorological laboratory. The building was constructed from local materials using the dry stone method, with a roof improvised from wood and canvas sheeting. The completed house was 20 feet by 20 feet square (6m × 6m), with two windows, fitted as quarters for six people. Rudmose Brown wrote: \"Considering that we had no mortar and no masons' tools it is a wonderfully fine house and very lasting. I should think it will be standing a century hence ...\"\n\nBruce later offered to Argentina the transfer of the station and instruments on the condition that the government committed itself to the continuation of the scientific mission. Bruce informed the British officer William Haggard of his intentions in December 1903, and Haggard ratified the terms of Bruce proposition.\n\nThe \"Scotia\" sailed back for Laurie Island on 14 January 1904 carrying on board Argentinean officials from the Ministry of Agriculture, National Meteorological Office, Ministry of Livestock and National Postal and Telegraphs Office. In 1906, Argentina communicated to the international community the establishment of a permanent base on South Orkney Islands.\n\nLittle happened for the following forty years until the Second World War, when the British launched Operation Tabarin in 1943, to establish a presence on the continent. The chief reason was to establish solid British claims to various uninhabited islands and parts of Antarctica, reinforced by Argentine sympathies toward Germany.\nPrior to the start of the war, German aircraft had dropped markers with swastikas across Queen Maud Land in an attempt to create a territorial claim, see New Swabia. Led by Lieutenant James Marr, the 14-strong team left the Falkland Islands in two ships, HMS \"William Scoresby\" (a minesweeping trawler) and \"Fitzroy\", on Saturday January 29, 1944. Marr had accompanied the British explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton on his final Antarctic expedition in 1921 - 1922.\n\nBases were established during February near the abandoned Norwegian whaling station on Deception Island, where the Union Flag was hoisted in place of Argentine flags, and at Port Lockroy (on February 11) on the coast of Graham Land. A further base was founded at Hope Bay on February 13, 1945, after a failed attempt to unload stores on February 7, 1944. These bases were the first ever to be constructed on the mainland Antarctica.\n\nThe Operation provoked a massive expansion in international activity after the war. Chile organized its First Chilean Antarctic Expedition in 1947–48. Among other accomplishments, it brought the Chilean president Gabriel González Videla to personally inaugurate one of its bases, thereby becoming the first head of state to set foot on the continent. Signy Research Station (UK) was established in 1947, Australia's Mawson Station in 1954, Dumont d'Urville Station was the first French station in 1956. In that same year, the United States built McMurdo Station and Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station, and the Soviet Union built Mirny Station.\n\nThe United States maintains the southernmost Base and the largest base and research station \nin Antarctica, Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station. The second-southernmost base is the Chinese Kunlun Station at 80°25′02″S during the summer season, and the Russian Vostok Station at 78°27′50″S during the winter season.\n\nThis map shows permanent research stations only.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4797468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4797468", "title": "Río de la Plata Basin", "text": "Río de la Plata Basin\n\nThe Río de la Plata basin (, ), more often called the River Plate basin in scholarly writings, sometimes called the Platine basin or Platine region, is the hydrographical area in South America that drains to the Río de la Plata. It includes areas of southeastern Bolivia, southern and central Brazil, the entire country of Paraguay, most of Uruguay, and northern Argentina. Making up about one fourth of the continent's surface, it is the second largest drainage basin in South America (after the Amazon basin) and one of the largest in the world.\n\nThe main rivers of the La Plata basin are the Paraná River, the Paraguay River (the Paraná's main tributary), and the Uruguay River.\n\nThe La Plata basin is bounded by the Brazilian Highlands to the north, the Andes Mountains to the west, and Patagonia to the south. The watershed extends mostly northward from the source of the Río de la Plata for roughly , as far as Brasília and Cuiabá in Brazil and Sucre in Bolivia, spanning latitudes between 14 and 27 degrees south and longitudes between 43 and 67 degrees west. The Paraná River, La Plata's largest tributary, is South America's second longest river and one of the longest in the world..\n\nPolitically the basin includes part or all of the Brazilian states of Mato Grosso, Goiás, Minas Gerais, São Paulo, Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraná, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, the Bolivian departments of Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca and Tarija, the entire country of Paraguay, the western and central departments of Uruguay, and the Argentine provinces of Jujuy, Salta, Formosa, Chaco, Misiones, Tucumán, Santiago del Estero, Santa Fe, Corrientes, Córdoba, Entre Ríos, Buenos Aires and La Pampa.\n\nThe precipitation falling within this area is collected by numerous rivers to finally reach the Río de la Plata, almost all of it through the Paraná River, the Paraguay River, and the Uruguay River, La Plata's most important tributaries. The river discharges water into the Atlantic Ocean at an average rate of , the majority of which comes from the Paraná.\n\nThe basin serves as the recharge zone for the Guarani Aquifer, one of the world's largest aquifer systems. The rivers of the La Plata Basin carry an estimated of silt into the Río de la Plata each year, where the muddy waters are stirred up by winds and tides; the shipping route from the Atlantic to Buenos Aires is kept open by continual dredging.\n\nThe Paraná River's main tributaries include the Paranaíba River, Grande River, Tietê River, Paranapanema River, Iguazu River, Paraguay River, and the Salado River, after which it ends in the large Paraná Delta. The Paraguay River flows through the Pantanal wetland, after which its main tributaries include the Pilcomayo River and the Bermejo River, before it ends in the Paraná. The Uruguay's main tributaries include the Pelotas River, Canoas River, Ibicuí River, and the Río Negro. Another significant tributary to the Río de la Plata is the Salado del Sur River.\n\nThe Río de la Plata Basin has been the site of much conflict in the modern history of South America, much of it because the basin contained the (contested) frontiers between the Portuguese and Spanish Empires in South America and their successor states. A series of wars has been fought over territorial control in the region, particularly in the nineteenth century.\n\nExplorer Sebastian Cabot made a detailed study of the Río de la Plata and its tributaries and gave the river its modern name. He explored the Paraná and Uruguay rivers between 1526 and 1529, ascending the Paraná as far as the present-day city of Asunción, and also explored up the Paraguay River. Cabot acquired silver trinkets trading with the Guaraní near today's Asunción, and these objects gave rise to the name Río de la Plata, \"river of silver\".\n\nThe first European colony in the Platine region was the city of Buenos Aires, founded by Pedro de Mendoza on 2 February 1536. This settlement, however, was quickly abandoned; the failure to establish a settlement on the La Plata estuary led to explorations upriver and the founding of Asunción in 1537. Buenos Aires was subsequently refounded by Juan de Garay on 11 June 1580.\n\nDuring the colonial era the Platine basin was largely neglected by the Spanish Empire until the 1760s, when Portugal and Britain threatened to expand into the estuary. The Spanish colonies in the region were separated from the Viceroyalty of Perú and formed into a new Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata in 1776. During the Napoleonic Wars Spain became an ally of the French, and Britain invaded the region in 1806–1807 unsuccessfully.\n\nConflict in the region intensified after the independence of the former Spanish and Portuguese colonies in the first quarter of the nineteenth century. Territorial interests and navigation rights in the Platine region were at issue in many armed conflicts throughout the century, including the Argentine Civil Wars, the Cisplatine and Platine wars, and the Paraguayan War.\n\nThere are several hydroelectric dams operating in the basin, among them the second largest operating facility in the world, Itaipu, shared between Paraguay and Brazil on the Paraná River; the 21st, Ilha Solteira Dam in Brazil, on the Paraná; the 25th, the Yacyretá Dam shared between Paraguay and Argentina, also on the Paraná; and the 53rd, the Itumbiara Dam, in Brazil, on the Paranaíba River.\n\nAlso on the Paranaíba, in Brazil, are the Emborcação and São Simão dams. On the Paraná, in Brazil, also are the Engineer Souza Dias and the Engineer Sérgio Motta dams.\n\nOn the Grande River, in Brazil, are the Água Vermelha, Furnas, Peixotos, Marimbondo, Luiz Barreto, Jaguara and Volta Grande dams.\n\nOn the Iguazu river, in Brazil, are the Bento Munhoz, Ney Braga, José Richa, Salto Santiago and Salto Osório hydroelectric power plants. On the Pelotas river, in Brazil, it is the Machadinho Hydroelectric Power Plant.\n\nThe Salto Grande Dam is on the Uruguay River and it is shared between Uruguay and Argentina. Also on the Uruguay River, but in Brazil territory, is the Itá Hydroelectric Power Plant.\n\nOn the Negro River, in Uruguay, there are the Rincon del Bonete or Gabriel Terra Reservoir (not an hydroelectric facility), and the Baygorria and Constitucion dams.\n\nThe dialect of Spanish spoken in the lower Río de la Plata basin is Rioplatense Spanish, named for the river. The Platine region is the birthplace of the tango dance and music.\n\n"}
{"id": "31196990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31196990", "title": "Satellite Sentinel Project", "text": "Satellite Sentinel Project\n\nThe Satellite Sentinel Project (SSP) was conceived by George Clooney and Enough Project co-founder John Prendergast during their October 2010 visit to South Sudan. Through the use of satellite imagery, SSP provides an early warning system to deter mass atrocities in a given situation by focusing world attention and generating rapid responses to human rights and human security concerns taking place in that situation.\n\nSSP currently produces reports on the state of the conflict in the border regions between Sudan and South Sudan. DigitalGlobe provides satellite imagery and analysis. Their reporting is then released to the press and policymakers by the Enough Project. In 2011, the Satellite Sentinel Project detected images of freshly-dug mass grave sites in the Southern Kordofan state of South Sudan, where Sudan’s Arab military has been targeting a black ethnic minority. SSP was the first to provide evidence consistent with the razing of the villages of Maker Abior, Todach, and Tajalei in Sudan's contested Abyei region, and the project has discovered eight alleged mass graves in South Kordofan, Sudan. SSP also plans to investigate how the illegal trade in diamonds, gold, ivory and other resources funds the activities of human-rights abusers.\n\nNot On Our Watch Project provided seed money to launch the Satellite Sentinel Project. The Enough Project contributes field reports, policy analysis and communications strategy, and, together with Not On Our Watch and its SUDANNOW partners, pressures policymakers by urging the public to act. Google and Internet strategy firm Trellon, LLC collaborate to design the web platform.\n\nPatrick Meier, a crisis mapping expert, has observed that the deterrent value of any surveillance is diminished in the absence of consequences for the perpetrators of violence. Specific to Sudan, other technologies such as drones are necessary to differentiate threats from nomads in order to generate actionable information.\n\n"}
{"id": "23739930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23739930", "title": "Sleeping Beauty Mountain, Kalinga", "text": "Sleeping Beauty Mountain, Kalinga\n\nSleeping Beauty Mountain (also known as Mount Patukan, Mount Mating-oy Dinayao, Mount Mantingoy) is a mountain ridge in Kalinga province of the Philippines. The mountain is called as such because the silhouette of the northern ridge resembles a sleeping woman. It is usually best viewed from the west near the municipality Tinglayan in the Chico River valley, but it can also be viewed from the east near Tanudan.\n\nMount Patukan (in the \"Lubo\" dialect of Tanudan) is the forehead and highest point of 'Sleeping Beauty.' The ridge is located between the municipalities of Tanudan and Tinglayan. The mountain is known as Mount Mating-oy Dinayao in the Tinglayan dialect.\n\nThere is a folkloric legend regarding the mountain, passed on for several generations. The tale is one of Kalinga’s most loved bedtime stories popularly sang in the native ballad called \"Ullalim\". The tale of two lovers ended by a tribal war has different versions, depending on the tribe where the story originated, the name of the protagonists are different, but with only slight variation in the story. One version of the story is about Lubting and Mawanga; one, about Dinayao and Binsay; and the other, Edonsan and Banna - all ending with the female protagonist resting on Patukan, in despair, after the loss of her loved one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12321263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12321263", "title": "Softscape", "text": "Softscape\n\nSoftscape refers to the live horticultural elements of a landscape. Softscaping can include, flowers, plants, shrubs, trees, flower beds, and duties like weed/nuisance management, grading, planting, mowing, trimming, aerating, spraying, and digging for everything from plants and shrubs , to flower beds. Wheel barrows and manual tools like rakes, shovels, picks, and gas power tools are commonly used. This is a term that has been popularized in recent pop culture (2006 onwards) on television shows such as Home & Garden Television. The purpose of softscape is to lend character to the landscaping, create an aura, ambience, and reflect the sensibilities of the inhabitants. \n\nThe term softscape stands in contrast to hardscape which represents inanimate objects of a landscape such as : pavers, stones, rocks,planter boxes, arbors , water feature as well as structures of wood and natural stone and concrete, like: retaining walls, patios, fences and decks, pergolas, stairs, Etc\n\n"}
{"id": "3190431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3190431", "title": "Spatial analysis", "text": "Spatial analysis\n\nComplex issues arise in spatial analysis, many of which are neither clearly defined nor completely resolved, but form the basis for current research. The most fundamental of these is the problem of defining the spatial location of the entities being studied.\n\nClassification of the techniques of spatial analysis is difficult because of the large number of different fields of research involved, the different fundamental approaches which can be chosen, and the many forms the data can take.\n\nSpatial analysis can perhaps be considered to have arisen with early attempts at cartography and surveying but many fields have contributed to its rise in modern form. Biology contributed through botanical studies of global plant distributions and local plant locations, ethological studies of animal movement, landscape ecological studies of vegetation blocks, ecological studies of spatial population dynamics, and the study of biogeography. Epidemiology contributed with early work on disease mapping, notably John Snow's work of mapping an outbreak of cholera, with research on mapping the spread of disease and with location studies for health care delivery. Statistics has contributed greatly through work in spatial statistics. Economics has contributed notably through spatial econometrics. Geographic information system is currently a major contributor due to the importance of geographic software in the modern analytic toolbox. Remote sensing has contributed extensively in morphometric and clustering analysis. Computer science has contributed extensively through the study of algorithms, notably in computational geometry. Mathematics continues to provide the fundamental tools for analysis and to reveal the complexity of the spatial realm, for example, with recent work on fractals and scale invariance. Scientific modelling provides a useful framework for new approaches.\n\nSpatial analysis confronts many fundamental issues in the definition of its objects of study, in the construction of the analytic operations to be used, in the use of computers for analysis, in the limitations and particularities of the analyses which are known, and in the presentation of analytic results. Many of these issues are active subjects of modern research.\n\nCommon errors often arise in spatial analysis, some due to the mathematics of space, some due to the particular ways data are presented spatially, some due to the tools which are available. Census data, because it protects individual privacy by aggregating data into local units, raises a number of statistical issues. The fractal nature of coastline makes precise measurements of its length difficult if not impossible. A computer software fitting straight lines to the curve of a coastline, can easily calculate the lengths of the lines which it defines. However these straight lines may have no inherent meaning in the real world, as was shown for the coastline of Britain.\n\nThese problems represent a challenge in spatial analysis because of the power of maps as media of presentation. When results are presented as maps, the presentation combines spatial data which are generally accurate with analytic results which may be inaccurate, leading to an impression that analytic results are more accurate than the data would indicate.\n\nThe definition of the spatial presence of an entity constrains the possible analysis which can be applied to that entity and influences the final conclusions that can be reached. While this property is fundamentally true of all analysis, it is particularly important in spatial analysis because the tools to define and study entities favor specific characterizations of the entities being studied. Statistical techniques favor the spatial definition of objects as points because there are very few statistical techniques which operate directly on line, area, or volume elements. Computer tools favor the spatial definition of objects as homogeneous and separate elements because of the limited number of database elements and computational structures available, and the ease with which these primitive structures can be created.\n\nSpatial dependency is the co-variation of properties within geographic space: characteristics at proximal locations appear to be correlated, either positively or negatively. Spatial dependency leads to the spatial autocorrelation problem in statistics since, like temporal autocorrelation, this violates standard statistical techniques that assume independence among observations. For example, regression analyses that do not compensate for spatial dependency can have unstable parameter estimates and yield unreliable significance tests. Spatial regression models (see below) capture these relationships and do not suffer from these weaknesses. It is also appropriate to view spatial dependency as a source of information rather than something to be corrected.\n\nLocational effects also manifest as spatial heterogeneity, or the apparent variation in a process with respect to location in geographic space. Unless a space is uniform and boundless, every location will have some degree of uniqueness relative to the other locations. This affects the spatial dependency relations and therefore the spatial process. Spatial heterogeneity means that overall parameters estimated for the entire system may not adequately describe the process at any given location.\n\nSpatial measurement scale is a persistent issue in spatial analysis; more detail is available at the modifiable areal unit problem (MAUP) topic entry. Landscape ecologists developed a series of scale invariant metrics for aspects of ecology that are fractal in nature. In more general terms, no scale independent method of analysis is widely agreed upon for spatial statistics.\n\nSpatial sampling involves determining a limited number of locations in geographic space for faithfully measuring phenomena that are subject to dependency and heterogeneity. Dependency suggests that since one location can predict the value of another location, we do not need observations in both places. But heterogeneity suggests that this relation can change across space, and therefore we cannot trust an observed degree of dependency beyond a region that may be small. Basic spatial sampling schemes include random, clustered and systematic. These basic schemes can be applied at multiple levels in a designated spatial hierarchy (e.g., urban area, city, neighborhood). It is also possible to exploit ancillary data, for example, using property values as a guide in a spatial sampling scheme to measure educational attainment and income. Spatial models such as autocorrelation statistics, regression and interpolation (see below) can also dictate sample design.\n\nThe fundamental issues in spatial analysis lead to numerous problems in analysis including bias, distortion and outright errors in the conclusions reached. These issues are often interlinked but various attempts have been made to separate out particular issues from each other.\n\nIn a paper by Benoit Mandelbrot on the coastline of Britain it was shown that it is inherently nonsensical to discuss certain spatial concepts despite an inherent presumption of the validity of the concept. Lengths in ecology depend directly on the scale at which they are measured and experienced. So while surveyors commonly measure the length of a river, this length only has meaning in the context of the relevance of the measuring technique to the question under study.\nThe locational fallacy refers to error due to the particular spatial characterization chosen for the elements of study, in particular choice of placement for the spatial presence of the element.\n\nSpatial characterizations may be simplistic or even wrong. Studies of humans often reduce the spatial existence of humans to a single point, for instance their home address. This can easily lead to poor analysis, for example, when considering disease transmission which can happen at work or at school and therefore far from the home.\n\nThe spatial characterization may implicitly limit the subject of study. For example, the spatial analysis of crime data has recently become popular but these studies can only describe the particular kinds of crime which can be described spatially. This leads to many maps of assault but not to any maps of embezzlement with political consequences in the conceptualization of crime and the design of policies to address the issue.\n\nThis describes errors due to treating elements as separate 'atoms' outside of their spatial context. The fallacy is about transferring individual conclusions to spatial units.\n\nThe ecological fallacy describes errors due to performing analyses on aggregate data when trying to reach conclusions on the individual units. Errors occur in part from spatial aggregation. For example, a pixel represents the average surface temperatures within an area. Ecological fallacy would be to assume that all points within the area have the same temperature. This topic is closely related to the modifiable areal unit problem.\n\nA mathematical space exists whenever we have a set of observations and quantitative measures of their attributes. For example, we can represent individuals' incomes or years of education within a coordinate system where the location of each individual can be specified with respect to both dimensions. The distance between individuals within this space is a quantitative measure of their differences with respect to income and education. However, in spatial analysis, we are concerned with specific types of mathematical spaces, namely, geographic space. In geographic space, the observations correspond to locations in a spatial measurement framework that capture their proximity in the real world. The locations in a spatial measurement framework often represent locations on the surface of the Earth, but this is not strictly necessary. A spatial measurement framework can also capture proximity with respect to, say, interstellar space or within a biological entity such as a liver. The fundamental tenet is Tobler's First Law of Geography: if the interrelation between entities increases with proximity in the real world, then representation in geographic space and assessment using spatial analysis techniques are appropriate.\n\nThe Euclidean distance between locations often represents their proximity, although this is only one possibility. There are an infinite number of distances in addition to Euclidean that can support quantitative analysis. For example, \"Manhattan\" (or \"Taxicab\") distances where movement is restricted to paths parallel to the axes can be more meaningful than Euclidean distances in urban settings. In addition to distances, other geographic relationships such as connectivity (e.g., the existence or degree of shared borders) and direction can also influence the relationships among entities. It is also possible to compute minimal cost paths across a cost surface; for example, this can represent proximity among locations when travel must occur across rugged terrain.\n\n Spatial data comes in many varieties and it is not easy to\nUrban and Regional Studies deal with large tables of spatial data obtained from censuses and surveys. It is necessary to simplify the huge amount of detailed information in order to extract the main trends. Multivariable analysis (or Factor analysis, FA) allows a change of variables, transforming the many variables of the census, usually correlated between themselves, into fewer independent \"Factors\" or \"Principal Components\" which are, actually, the eigenvectors of the data correlation matrix weighted by the inverse of their eigenvalues. This change of variables has two main advantages:\n\nFactor analysis depends on measuring distances between observations : the choice of a significant metric is crucial. The Euclidean metric (Principal Component Analysis), the Chi-Square distance (Correspondence Analysis) or the Generalized Mahalanobis distance (Discriminant Analysis ) are among the more widely used. More complicated models, using communalities or rotations have been proposed.\n\nUsing multivariate methods in spatial analysis began really in the 1950s (although some examples go back to the beginning of the century) and culminated in the 1970s, with the increasing power and accessibility of computers. Already in 1948, in a seminal publication, two sociologists, Bell and Shevky, had shown that most city populations in the USA and in the world could be represented with three independent factors : 1- the « socio-economic status » opposing rich and poor districts and distributed in sectors running along highways from the city center, 2- the « life cycle », i.e. the age structure of households, distributed in concentric circles, and 3- « race and ethnicity », identifying patches of migrants located within the city. In 1961, in a groundbreaking study, British geographers used FA to classify British towns. Brian J Berry, at the University of Chicago, and his students made a wide use of the method, applying it to most important cities in the world and exhibiting common social structures. \nThe use of Factor Analysis in Geography, made so easy by modern computers, has been very wide but not always very wise.\n\nSince the vectors extracted are determined by the data matrix, it is not possible to compare factors obtained from different censuses. A solution consists in fusing together several census matrices in a unique table which, then, may be analyzed. This, however, assumes that the definition of the variables has not changed over time and produces very large tables, difficult to manage. A better solution, proposed by psychometricians, groups the data in a « cubic matrix », with three entries (for instance, locations, variables, time periods). A Three-Way Factor Analysis produces then three groups of factors related by a small cubic « core matrix ». This method, which exhibits data evolution over time, has not been widely used in geography. In Los Angeles, however, it has exhibited the role, traditionally ignored, of Downtown as an organizing center for the whole city during several decades.\n\nSpatial autocorrelation statistics measure and analyze the degree of dependency among observations in a geographic space. Classic spatial autocorrelation statistics include Moran's formula_1, Geary's formula_2, Getis's formula_3 and the standard deviational ellipse. These statistics require measuring a spatial weights matrix that reflects the intensity of the geographic relationship between observations in a neighborhood, e.g., the distances between neighbors, the lengths of shared border, or whether they fall into a specified directional class such as \"west\". Classic spatial autocorrelation statistics compare the spatial weights to the covariance relationship at pairs of locations. Spatial autocorrelation that is more positive than expected from random indicate the clustering of similar values across geographic space, while significant negative spatial autocorrelation indicates that neighboring values are more dissimilar than expected by chance, suggesting a spatial pattern similar to a chess board.\n\nSpatial autocorrelation statistics such as Moran's formula_1 and Geary's formula_2 are global in the sense that they estimate the overall degree of spatial autocorrelation for a dataset. The possibility of spatial heterogeneity suggests that the estimated degree of autocorrelation may vary significantly across geographic space. Local spatial autocorrelation statistics provide estimates disaggregated to the level of the spatial analysis units, allowing assessment of the dependency relationships across space. formula_3 statistics compare neighborhoods to a global average and identify local regions of strong autocorrelation. Local versions of the formula_1 and formula_2 statistics are also available.\n\nSpatial stratified heterogeneity, referring to the within-strata variance less than the between strata-variance, is ubiquitous in ecological phenomena, such as ecological zones and many ecological variables. Spatial stratified heterogeneity of an attribute can be measured by geographical detector \"q\"-statistic:\nwhere a population is partitioned into \"h\" = 1, ..., \"L\" strata; \"N\" stands for the size of the population, σ stands for variance of the attribute. The value of \"q\" is within [0, 1], 0 indicates no spatial stratified heterogeneity, 1 indicates perfect spatial stratified heterogeneity.The value of \"q\" indicates the percent of the variance of an attribute explained by the stratification.The \"q\" follows a noncentral \"F\" probability density function.\n\nSpatial interpolation methods estimate the variables at unobserved locations in geographic space based on the values at observed locations. Basic methods include inverse distance weighting: this attenuates the variable with decreasing proximity from the observed location. Kriging is a more sophisticated method that interpolates across space according to a spatial lag relationship that has both systematic and random components. This can accommodate a wide range of spatial relationships for the hidden values between observed locations. Kriging provides optimal estimates given the hypothesized lag relationship, and error estimates can be mapped to determine if spatial patterns exist.\n\nSpatial regression methods capture spatial dependency in regression analysis, avoiding statistical problems such as unstable parameters and unreliable significance tests, as well as providing information on spatial relationships among the variables involved. The estimated spatial relationships can be used on spatial and spatio-temporal predictions. Depending on the specific technique, spatial dependency can enter the regression model as relationships between the independent variables and the dependent, between the dependent variables and a spatial lag of itself, or in the error terms. Geographically weighted regression (GWR) is a local version of spatial regression that generates parameters disaggregated by the spatial units of analysis. This allows assessment of the spatial heterogeneity in the estimated relationships between the independent and dependent variables. The use of Bayesian hierarchical modeling in conjunction with Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods have recently shown to be effective in modeling complex relationships using Poisson-Gamma-CAR, Poisson-lognormal-SAR, or Overdispersed logit models. \nSpatial stochastic processes, such as Gaussian processes are also increasingly being deployed in spatial regression analysis. Model-based versions of GWR, known as spatially varying coefficient models have been applied to conduct Bayesian inference. Spatial stochastic process can become computationally effective and scalable Gaussian process models, such as Gaussian Predictive Processes and Nearest Neighbor Gaussian Processes (NNGP).\n\nSpatial interaction or \"gravity models\" estimate the flow of people, material or information between locations in geographic space. Factors can include origin propulsive variables such as the number of commuters in residential areas, destination attractiveness variables such as the amount of office space in employment areas, and proximity relationships between the locations measured in terms such as driving distance or travel time. In addition, the topological, or connective, relationships between areas must be identified, particularly considering the often conflicting relationship between distance and topology; for example, two spatially close neighborhoods may not display any significant interaction if they are separated by a highway. After specifying the functional forms of these relationships, the analyst can estimate model parameters using observed flow data and standard estimation techniques such as ordinary least squares or maximum likelihood. Competing destinations versions of spatial interaction models include the proximity among the destinations (or origins) in addition to the origin-destination proximity; this captures the effects of destination (origin) clustering on flows. Computational methods such as artificial neural networks can also estimate spatial interaction relationships among locations and can handle noisy and qualitative data.\n\nSpatial interaction models are aggregate and top-down: they specify an overall governing relationship for flow between locations. This characteristic is also shared by urban models such as those based on mathematical programming, flows among economic sectors, or bid-rent theory. An alternative modeling perspective is to represent the system at the highest possible level of disaggregation and study the bottom-up emergence of complex patterns and relationships from behavior and interactions at the individual level. \n\nComplex adaptive systems theory as applied to spatial analysis suggests that simple interactions among proximal entities can lead to intricate, persistent and functional spatial entities at aggregate levels. Two fundamentally spatial simulation methods are cellular automata and agent-based modeling. Cellular automata modeling imposes a fixed spatial framework such as grid cells and specifies rules that dictate the state of a cell based on the states of its neighboring cells. As time progresses, spatial patterns emerge as cells change states based on their neighbors; this alters the conditions for future time periods. For example, cells can represent locations in an urban area and their states can be different types of land use. Patterns that can emerge from the simple interactions of local land uses include office districts and urban sprawl. Agent-based modeling uses software entities (agents) that have purposeful behavior (goals) and can react, interact and modify their environment while seeking their objectives. Unlike the cells in cellular automata, simulysts can allow agents to be mobile with respect to space. For example, one could model traffic flow and dynamics using agents representing individual vehicles that try to minimize travel time between specified origins and destinations. While pursuing minimal travel times, the agents must avoid collisions with other vehicles also seeking to minimize their travel times. Cellular automata and agent-based modeling are complementary modeling strategies. They can be integrated into a common geographic automata system where some agents are fixed while others are mobile.\n\nCalibration plays a pivotal role in both CA and ABM simulation and modelling approaches. Initial approaches to CA proposed robust calibration approaches based on stochastic, Monte Carlo methods. ABM approaches rely on agents' decision rules (in many cases extracted from qualitative research base methods such as questionnaires). Recent Machine Learning Algorithms calibrate using training sets, for instance in order to understand the qualities of the built environment.\n\nSpatial analysis of a conceptual geological model is the main purpose of any MPS algorithm. The method analyzes the spatial statistics of the geological model, called the training image, and generates realizations of the phenomena that honor those input multiple-point statistics.\n\nA recent MPS algorithm used to accomplish this task is the pattern-based method by Honarkhah. In this method, a distance-based approach is employed to analyze the patterns in the training image. This allows the reproduction of the multiple-point statistics, and the complex geometrical features of the training image. Each output of the MPS algorithm is a realization that represents a random field. Together, several realizations may be used to quantify spatial uncertainty.\n\nOne of the recent methods is presented by Tahmasebi et al. uses a cross-correlation function to improve the spatial pattern reproduction. They call their MPS simulation method as the CCSIM algorithm. This method is able to quantify the spatial connectivity, variability and uncertainty. Furthermore, the method is not sensitive to any type of data and is able to simulate both categorical and continuous scenarios. CCSIM algorithm is able to be used for any stationary, non-stationary and multivariate systems and it can provide high quality visual appeal model.,\n\nGeospatial analysis, or just spatial analysis, is an approach to applying statistical analysis and other analytic techniques to data which has a geographical or spatial aspect . Such analysis would typically employ software capable of rendering maps processing spatial data, and applying analytical methods to terrestrial or geographic datasets, including the use of geographic information systems and geomatics.\n\nGeographic information systems (GIS) — a large domain that provides a variety of capabilities designed to capture, store, manipulate, analyze, manage, and present all types of geographical data — utilizes geospatial analysis in a variety of contexts, operations and applications.\n\nGeospatial analysis, using GIS, was developed for problems in the environmental and life sciences, in particular ecology, geology and epidemiology. It has extended to almost all industries including defense, intelligence, utilities, Natural Resources (i.e. Oil and Gas, Forestry ... etc.), social sciences, medicine and Public Safety (i.e. emergency management and criminology), disaster risk reduction and management (DRRM), and climate change adaptation (CCA). Spatial statistics typically result primarily from observation rather than experimentation.\n\nVector-based GIS is typically related to operations such as map overlay (combining two or more maps or map layers according to predefined rules), simple buffering (identifying regions of a map within a specified distance of one or more features, such as towns, roads or rivers) and similar basic operations. This reflects (and is reflected in) the use of the term spatial analysis within the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) “simple feature specifications”. For raster-based GIS, widely used in the environmental sciences and remote sensing, this typically means a range of actions applied to the grid cells of one or more maps (or images) often involving filtering and/or algebraic operations (map algebra). These techniques involve processing one or more raster layers according to simple rules resulting in a new map layer, for example replacing each cell value with some combination of its neighbours’ values, or computing the sum or difference of specific attribute values for each grid cell in two matching raster datasets. Descriptive statistics, such as cell counts, means, variances, maxima, minima, cumulative values, frequencies and a number of other measures and distance computations are also often included in this generic term spatial analysis. Spatial analysis includes a large variety of statistical techniques (descriptive, exploratory, and explanatory statistics) that apply to data that vary spatially and which can vary over time. Some more advanced statistical techniques include Getis-ord Gi* or Anselin Local Moran's I which are used to determine clustering patterns of spatially referenced data.\n\nGeospatial analysis goes beyond 2D and 3D mapping operations and spatial statistics. It includes: \n\nTraditionally geospatial computing has been performed primarily on personal computers (PCs) or servers. Due to the increasing capabilities of mobile devices, however, geospatial computing in mobile devices is a fast-growing trend. The portable nature of these devices, as well as the presence of useful sensors, such as Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) receivers and barometric pressure sensors, make them useful for capturing and processing geospatial information in the field. In addition to the local processing of geospatial information on mobile devices, another growing trend is cloud-based geospatial computing. In this architecture, data can be collected in the field using mobile devices and then transmitted to cloud-based servers for further processing and ultimate storage. In a similar manner, geospatial information can be made available to connected mobile devices via the cloud, allowing access to vast databases of geospatial information anywhere where a wireless data connection is available.\n\nGeographic information systems (GIS) and the underlying geographic information science that advances these technologies have a strong influence on spatial analysis. The increasing ability to capture and handle geographic data means that spatial analysis is occurring within increasingly data-rich environments. Geographic data capture systems include remotely sensed imagery, environmental monitoring systems such as intelligent transportation systems, and location-aware technologies such as mobile devices that can report location in near-real time. GIS provide platforms for managing these data, computing spatial relationships such as distance, connectivity and directional relationships between spatial units, and visualizing both the raw data and spatial analytic results within a cartographic context.\n\nGeovisualization (GVis) combines scientific visualization with digital cartography to support the exploration and analysis of geographic data and information, including the results of spatial analysis or simulation. GVis leverages the human orientation towards visual information processing in the exploration, analysis and communication of geographic data and information. In contrast with traditional cartography, GVis is typically three- or four-dimensional (the latter including time) and user-interactive.\n\nGeographic knowledge discovery (GKD) is the human-centered process of applying efficient computational tools for exploring massive spatial databases. GKD includes geographic data mining, but also encompasses related activities such as data selection, data cleaning and pre-processing, and interpretation of results. GVis can also serve a central role in the GKD process. GKD is based on the premise that massive databases contain interesting (valid, novel, useful and understandable) patterns that standard analytical techniques cannot find. GKD can serve as a hypothesis-generating process for spatial analysis, producing tentative patterns and relationships that should be confirmed using spatial analytical techniques.\n\nSpatial decision support systems (SDSS) take existing spatial data and use a variety of mathematical models to make projections into the future. This allows urban and regional planners to test intervention decisions prior to implementation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8141840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8141840", "title": "Stopps v Just Ladies Fitness (Metrotown) Ltd", "text": "Stopps v Just Ladies Fitness (Metrotown) Ltd\n\nStopps v Just Ladies Fitness (Metrotown) Ltd was a discrimination by sex case heard before the British Columbia Human Rights Tribunal that was significant in Canadian law because it found that a women-only admission policy of a public gym was not discrimination.\n\nOn October 2, 2004 Vancouver resident Ralph Stopps applied to the Just Ladies Fitness facility in Metrotown and was denied membership because he is male. Stopps filed a complaint with the British Columbia Human Rights Tribunal on November 21, 2006 that he was discriminated against because of his gender, violating s. 8 of the \"Human Rights Code,\" which prohibits discrimination by sex. The tribunal, a panel of 9 females and 3 males, rendered its decision that the complainant had not established that he was discriminated against.\n\nJust Ladies Fitness is a women-only fitness facility, although some men work there in management and maintenance. It was argued at the tribunal that women attend the facility because they feel demeaned by men gazing at them at unisex facilities. The facility also claimed that because it is cleaner, has smaller weights that are more suitable for females, and because it has prenatal fitness classes their women-only admission policy was justified. The managers argued that women pay higher fees at their facility than at other fitness facilities and that this proves that some females feel that going to a female only fitness facility is necessary, but does not constitute sexual discrimination.\n\nThe Human Rights Tribunal ruled that the complainant had failed to prove on a balance of probabilities all the elements required to demonstrate that illegal discrimination had happened. Stopps still has the right to appeal the BCHRT's decision.\n\nFirstly, the tribunal found that the complainant was not adversely affected by the denial of membership. His claim that the facility was nearer his home was incorrect, his claim that the free initial membership period was not significant and since he had not pursued other opportunities to join other gyms, the tribunal found he had no serious intention of working out at a facility, as he had never gone to any fitness facilities before, and did not attend any after he was denied membership at \"Just Ladies Fitness\".\n\nSecond, the tribunal found that the complainant failed to prove that his dignity has been adversely affected by his denial of membership. In British Columbia, one cannot receive compensation for being discriminated against unless one also proves that the discrimination demeaned their dignity, and Mr. Stopps failed to prove that his dignity had been significantly demeaned.\n\nThird, the tribunal found that its purpose is to provide compensation for those who have actually suffered from being discriminated against, and that the tribunal should not be used to make a political point. The tribunal found that Stopps's claim was politically motivated, and filing such claims harms those who file legitimate claims of discrimination, including men who have been discriminated against and whose dignity has been demeaned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1076216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1076216", "title": "Svinesund", "text": "Svinesund\n\nSvinesund is a sound separating the Swedish municipality of Strömstad in the province of Bohuslän in the county of Västra Götaland from the Norwegian municipality of Halden in the county of Østfold.\n\nTwo bridges, the old and new Svinesund Bridge (\"no:Svinesundsbroen sv:Svinesundsbron\"), span this sound of the Iddefjord. The Swedish side is extremely popular with Norwegians who flock to buy relatively cheap goods in Sweden, where a large shopping area can be found immediately after crossing the sound. Following the erection of the new bridge in 2005, both the old and new bridges are toll bridges.\n\nNorwegian and Swedish customs authorities have offices and checkpoints on their respective sides of the sound. While there is not normally any passport control on the border, vehicles crossing are regularly stopped and searched. Norway is not in the EU so there are much stricter restrictions on the amount of goods (e.g. alcohol, cigarettes, food, etc.) that can be taken across the border without stopping to pay customs duties than between EU countries. Customs duties are paid immediately after crossing the border using the new bridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "47079744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47079744", "title": "Trumao", "text": "Trumao\n\nTrumao is the name of a soil of the Andosol order found in southern and central Chile. Trumaos are formed from young volcanic ash, by volcanic ash redeposited by aeolian processes or by volcanic ash mobilized as alluvium. Trumaos are characterized by containing the following minerals: allophane, imogolite plus a series of paracrystalline and non-crystalline clays. These soils have high porosity and low bulk density. A more dry and a more humid variety of trumaos exists. The dry variety is known simply as trumao while the humid variety is known as trumao húmedo.\n\nIn terms of latitude trumaos can be found in the Andes from 33° S to 43° S, in the Central Valley from 38° S to 43° S and in the eastern slopes of the Chilean Coast Range from 39° S to 43° S.\n\n"}
{"id": "81857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81857", "title": "Via Maris", "text": "Via Maris\n\nVia Maris is the modern name for an ancient trade route, dating from the early Bronze Age, linking Egypt with the northern empires of Syria, Anatolia and Mesopotamia — modern day Iran, Iraq, Palestine, Israel, Turkey and Syria. In Latin, \"Via Maris\" means \"way of the sea.\" It is a historic road that runs along the Israeli Mediterranean coast. It was the most important route from Egypt to Syria (the Fertile Crescent) which followed the coastal plain before crossing over into the plain of Jezreel and the Jordan valley.\n\nIts earlier name was \"Way of the Philistines\", a reference to a passageway through the Philistine Plain (which today consists of Israel's southern coastal plain and the Gaza Strip). The name \"Via Maris\" is not ancient and academic researchers prefer other names, for instance \"International Trunk Road\".\n\nTogether with the King's Highway, the \"Via Maris\" was one of the major trade routes connecting Egypt and the Levant with Anatolia and Mesopotamia. The \"Via Maris\" was crossed by other trading routes, so that one could travel from Africa to Europe or from Asia to Africa. It began in al-Qantara and went east to Pelusium, following the northern coast of Sinai through el-Arish and Rafah. From there it followed the coast of Canaan through Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, Joppa, and Dor before turning east again through Megiddo and the Jezreel Valley until it reached Tiberias on the Sea of Galilee. Again turning northward along the shore, the \"Via Maris\" passed through Migdal, Capernaum, and Hazor. From Hazor it crossed the northern River Jordan at Jacob's Daughters' Bridge then climbed sharply over the Golan Heights and wound its way northeast into Damascus. Here travelers could continue on the King's Highway as far as the Euphrates River or proceed northward into Anatolia.\n\nAccording to Anson Rainey (1981),\n\"Via Maris\" is not the historical name of any road. The phrase rather originates as the Latin translation of (in the Hebrew Bible, 8:23) – \"by the way of the sea\". The prophet was probably referring to the road from Dan to the sea at Tyre, passing through Abel-beth-maachah, which marked the northern border of Israel at the time of the Assyrian conquest.\n\nThe road mentioned in the traditional description is better listed as the Great Trunk Road. This Egypt-to-Damascus route is so designated by Barry J. Beitzel in \"The New Moody Atlas of the Bible \"(2009), p. 85, by John D. Currid and David P. Barrett in the \"ESV Bible Atlas\" (2010), p. 41, and by Rainey and Notley in \"Carta's New Century Handbook and Atlas of the Bible\" (2007), p. 76. Carl G. Rasmussen in the \"Zondervan Atlas of the Bible \"(2010), p. 32, also notes the traditional misnomer and denotes the Egypt–Damascus route as the International North-South Route.\n\nRasmussen, basically in agreement with Langfur and Rainey, suggests that the \"Via Maris\" was the road that connected Tyre with Damascus. Beitzel, in contrast, denotes the Via Maris as a road from Ptolemais (Acco / Acre) to Kedesh (Kedesh-naphtali) in the Galilee – also leading west to east, but slightly further south and not reaching so far inland.\n\n"}
{"id": "6013482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6013482", "title": "Western Australia Post Office Directory", "text": "Western Australia Post Office Directory\n\nThe Western Australia Post Office Directory, also known as \"Wise Directories\" or \"Wise Street Directories\" were published in Perth from 1893-1949.\n\nThey were published by H. Pierssené and later by H. Wise & Co. They listed household, business, society, and Government contacts in Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie, Boulder and Coolgardie including some rural areas of Western Australia.\n\nThe \"Western Australian Directory\" was published by H. Pierssene between 1893-1895. Herbert Pierssene was a merchant and importer of English Continental and Ceylonese goods. He was an agent for McCulluch Carrying Company and a bottler of West Australian wines.\n\nThe \"Western Australia Post Office Directory\" was published by Wise & Co. between the years 1895-1949 with the exception of 1943 and 1948.\n\nThe directories provide information by locality, individual surname, government service, and by trade or profession. The addresses of householders and businesses throughout Western Australia are included. Maps were sometimes published with an edition of the directory. The towns section of the directories normally contained separate street directories of Perth and suburbs, Fremantle and Suburbs, Kalgoorlie, Boulder and Coolgardie.\n\nKnown colloquially to users and book collectors as 'Wise Directories' or 'Wise Street Directories' the red covered directories were published between 1893 and 1949. Due to the annual changes, the directories are valuable historical documents for Western Australian History. They are scarce in the Australian rare book market. \n\nThe directories have been invaluable referent points for such projects as the Dictionary of Western Australians and others where the street lists in the directory provide details of inhabitants and houses in some streets in the more built-up residential areas. Country towns in the directory have name lists only. \n\nThey have been available in microfilm form in J S Battye Library, and more recently have become online (see link below) in one of the J S Battye Library digitization projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53151217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53151217", "title": "World Intermediary Liability Map", "text": "World Intermediary Liability Map\n\nThe World Intermediary Liability Map (WILMap) is an online repository of information on international intermediary liability regimes hosted at Stanford CIS. The WILMap has been designed, developed and launched in July 2014 by Giancarlo Frosio.\n\nThe WILMap is a graphic interface for legislation and case law enabling the public to learn about intermediary liability regimes worldwide and evolving Internet regulation affecting freedom of expression and user rights. This detailed English-language resource allows visitors to select information on countries of interest, including case law, statutes, and proposed laws. Each country page includes links to original sources and English translations, if available. As the WILMap website, programmatically states, this resource should be used “to learn about intermediary liability regimes worldwide, and to identify places where legal regimes balance—or fail to balance—regulatory goals with free expression and other civil liberties.”\n\nThe WILMap features legislation, pending bills and proposals imposing obligations on intermediaries, both access and hosting providers or other online intermediaries, such as payment processors. The WILMap covers wide-ranging topics, including online intermediaries' safe harbors, e-commerce, copyright and trademark protection, defamation, hate/dangerous speech, including anti-terrorism provisions, privacy protection, and child protection online. If available, the WILMap includes relevant case law for each jurisdiction. Basically, the WILMap would like to features any case law discussing obligations and liability of online intermediaries due to (infringing) activities undertaken by their users. The WILMap also features sections for administrative enforcement of intermediary liability online, if there are administrative agencies in charge with implementing website blocking orders or content removal in a certain jurisdiction.\n\nSince its launch in July 2014, the WILMap has been steadily and rapidly growing. In May 2018, an improved version of the WILMap was launched, including a new layout, a relational database and additional features. Today, the WILMap covers almost one hundred jurisdictions in Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, Europe, Latin America, North America and Oceania. The WILMap is an ongoing project. In collaboration with a network of experts worldwide, CIS continues to update and expand the map, with the goal of covering all jurisdictions. In an effort to make the WILMap an increasingly valuable resource for activists, industry players, researchers, and the general public, the WILMap website will be soon updated with enhanced usability and data aggregation features.\n\nThe WILMap project was made possible by a team of contributors from around the world, both individual researchers and institutions, providing the necessary information to create and update each country page. The creation of a global network of WILMap contributors also allowed to promote synergies with global platforms and free expression groups to advocate for policies that will protect innovation and other user rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "645374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=645374", "title": "Xu Xiake", "text": "Xu Xiake\n\nXu Xiake (, January 5, 1587 – March 8, 1641), born Xu Hongzu (徐弘祖), courtesy name Zhenzhi (振之), was a Chinese travel writer and geographer of the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644), known best for his famous geographical treatise, and noted for his bravery and humility. He traveled throughout China for more than 30 years, documenting his travels extensively. The records of his travels were compiled posthumously in \"The Travel Diaries Xu Xiake\", and his work translated by Ding Wenjiang. Xu's writing falls under the old Chinese literary category of 'travel record literature' ('youji wenxue'“遊記文學”), which used narrative and prose styles of writing to portray one's travel experiences.\n\nThe People's Liberation Army Navy barracks ship \"Xu Xiake\" was named after him.\n\nWith ancestors from Jiangxi province, Xu Xiake was born in what is today Jiangyin (in Jiangsu province) as Xu Hongzu (宏祖), as the second son of Xu Yu'an (徐豫庵, 1545–1694) and Wang Ruren (王孺人, 1545–1625). It was often said his mother encouraged him to travel and this shaped Xu's predilections. His sobriquet is Zhenzhi (振之). \"Xiake\" was an alternate sobriquet (別號) given to him by his friend Chen Jiru (陳繼儒, 1558–1639) and it means \"one who is in the sunset clouds\". His other friend, Huang Daozhou (黃道周, 1585–1646), also gave Xu an alternate sobriquet: \"Xiayi\" (霞逸), meaning \"untrammelled in the sunset clouds.\"\n\nOn his journeys throughout China he travelled with a servant called Gu Xing (顧行). He faced many hardships along the way, as he was often dependent on the patronage of local scholars who would help him after he had been robbed of all his belongings. Local Buddhist abbots of the various places he visited often would pay him money as well, for the small service of recording the history of their local monastery. From the snowy passes of Sichuan, to the subtropical jungles of Guangxi and Yunnan, to the mountains of Tibet, Xu Xiake wrote of all his experiences and provided enormous amounts of written detail from his observations.\n\nThe written work of Xu Xiake's travel records and diaries contained some 404,000 Chinese characters, an enormous work for a single author of his time. Xu traveled throughout the provinces of China, often on foot, to write his enormous geographical and topographical treatise, documenting various details of his travels, such as the locations of small gorges, or mineral beds such as mica schists. Xu's work was quite systematic, providing accurate details of measurement, and his work, later translated into modern Chinese by Ding Wenjiang, reads more like the accounts of a 20th-century field surveyor than an early 17th-century scholar. In Guizhou, he made the discovery of the true source of the West River. He also discovered the Mekong and Salween rivers were, in fact, separate drainages with completely separate watersheds. Xu made the important realization that the Jinsha river network and not the Min or Yalong formed the true headwaters of the Yangtze River, correcting a mistake in Chinese geography as old as the \"Tribute of Yu\" compiled by Confucius in the Classic of History.\n\n\n"}
