{"id": "5425327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5425327", "title": "A Monstrous Regiment of Women", "text": "A Monstrous Regiment of Women\n\nA Monstrous Regiment of Women is the second book in the Mary Russell series of mystery novels by Laurie R. King.\n\nThe title is taken from a work by John Knox, published in 1558, \"The First Blast of the Trumpet Against the Monstrous Regimen of Women\". Knox used the word regimen in an archaic sense to mean government or régime, and his book was written against the female sovereigns of his day, particularly Mary I of England and Mary, Queen of Scots.\n\nIn the winter of 1920, Mary Russell is on the cusp of turning 21 and lives a double life of Oxford University theological scholar as well as a consulting detective and partner of Sherlock Holmes. After events in The Beekeeper's Apprentice, both Holmes and Russell are aware that their relationship and partnership has changed, perhaps romantically, but neither is eager to broach the subject.\n\nA chance encounter unites Russell with Veronica Beaconsfield, an old Oxford acquaintance who is worried about her former fiancé, Miles Fitzwarren, a returned soldier and drug addict. Veronica introduces Russell to the well-financed New Temple in God and its leader, the enigmatic, charismatic Margery Childe, who preaches empowerment of women. Russell believes Margery to be a mystic and begins tutoring Margery in theology and reading Scripture, integrating into their lessons her own current academic work on feminism and Judaism. Russell also witnesses what she believes to be a true miracle, in which Margery is healed of serious physical wounds through prayer. Meanwhile, Holmes takes on Miles’s rehabilitation partially as a favor to Russell.\n\nWhen an attempt is made on Veronica’s life, Holmes and Russell discover a mysterious pattern of deaths where fairly wealthy women have left large bequests to the Temple. Coming into her inheritance at age 21, Russell takes on the role of a young heiress to insinuate herself into the Temple’s leadership. While learning more about the Temple’s operations, Russell also fends off an attacker who threatens Margery.\n\nEn route back to Oxford, Russell is kidnapped by a man whom she identifies from descriptions of Margery’s husband, Claude. He keeps Russell prisoner and injects her with regular doses of heroin. Against the effects of the drug and solitary confinement, Russell struggles to retain her identity and will to survive, and in the face of possible death, contemplates her love for Holmes. Nine days later, she is rescued by Holmes, who also helps her overcome her reliance on the drug.\n\nUndeterred by her ordeal, Russell breaks into Margery’s safe but finds no evidence indicating Margery’s complicity in the deaths. The next morning, Holmes and Russell follow Margery, who has gone to confront Claude, disturbed by his actions concerning Mary. In the ensuing chase and fight, Margery is wounded, Claude is killed, and Holmes narrowly survives. The near-death experience pushes both Holmes and Russell to admit their passion for one another. In the ensuing trial, Margery is acquitted of blame, but voluntarily exiles herself from England. Veronica and a recovered Miles finally marry, as do Holmes and Russell.\n\nThis book takes place from 26 December 1920 to early February in 1921. Locations include London, Oxford and Sussex. Mary turns 21 on January 2, 1921, and Holmes's age is 58.\n\n\nThe book deals heavily with the intersection of feminism and religion; more specifically, their combination in the form of the character Margery Childe. When Mary first hears her speak, Margery is discussing a passage from 1 Corinthians in the Christian Bible:\n\n\"Women should keep silence in church; for they are not permitted to speak, but should be subordinate, as the law says...It is shameful for a woman to speak in church.\"\n\nMargery's conclusion is that men are afraid of the questions women might ask concerning religion, the Bible, and God, and realize that women are not inferior. She points out that the Bible describes both men and women being created in God's image - not just males. She dissects the \"Adam's rib\" creation story, noting that humanity was not complete until woman was created. \nMary, a theology scholar, mentions to Margery that in the original biblical manuscripts, there are numerous references to God in the feminine; using \"She\" and \"Her\" instead of \"His and \"Him\". Mary has learned through her research that these references were removed as the works were translated into other languages, presumably so that God would appear as a wholly masculine being. \nIn an author interview, Laurie R. King is noted to describe herself as a \"...feminist-although that basically means I support the right of a woman to get paid for doing the same job as a man, not that I believe men to be inferior or superfluous.\"\n\nThere is a mention of Holmes having fathered a son, and to Holmes having gone through a very rough period while his son fought a drug addiction. There are also references to a relationship with Irene Adler.\n\nIn a paper examining the feminist narrative in a contemporary context, Lillian Doherty felt disappointed by the ending, believing Mary failed to \"uphold the honour of the feminists\" when she needed to be rescued by Holmes.\n"}
{"id": "43836255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43836255", "title": "Airhead (subculture)", "text": "Airhead (subculture)\n\n\"Airhead\", also known as \"Trixie\" (in Chicago), \"basic bitch\", or simply \"basic\", is a slang term in American popular culture used to pejoratively describe middle class white women who are perceived to predominantly like mainstream products, trends, or music. \"Airhead\" dates back to the late 1980s as a derogatory term for a stupid or unaware person, usually female but sometimes male. \"Basic bitch\" originated in hip-hop culture and rose in popularity through rap music, songs, blogs, and videos from 2011 to 2014.\n\nTheir male counterparts are usually termed \"basic bros\", \"Chads,\" or \"urban preps\". International English equivalents to the \"basic bitch\" or \"airhead\" include preconceived notions that some people have about contemporary British \"Essex Girls\" and \"Sloane rangers,\" Irish \"D4s\", and Australian \"haul girls\" known for their love of shopping for designer gear, and uploading videos of their purchases on YouTube.\n\nBefore the 1980s, \"airhead\" was general American slang for a ditzy, clumsy or stupid person. With the rise of the valley girl and preppy subculture however, the term was applied to cheerleaders and nouveau riche or middle class hangers-on who imitated the uptalk speech and clothing of the upper class popular girls. These airheads, material girls or gold diggers were stereotypically viewed by their classmates as unintelligent, gossipy bimbettes who were interested solely in spreading rumors about their rivals and entering relationships with the wealthy jocks.\n\nDuring the late 1990s and early 2000s, airheads began to be regarded as a distinct, middle class subculture in many suburban American high schools, although appearance-wise they initially differed little from the traditionalist upper class preps. At the time, many wealthy white jocks and younger preppies had begun imitating urban fashion trends, eschewing the semi-formal conservative look of the 1980s and 1990s in favor of gold bling, expensive designer clothes, sneakers, dark jeans, and sweatpants. Rich girls who dressed this way were known as \"Queen Bees\" and their followers were known as \"plastics\", or \"airheads\". Members of this clique believed their designer clothing, as a manifestation of conspicuous consumption, was key to being popular.\n\nThe term \"basic bitch\" was coined in 2009 by comedian Lil' Duval. Over the next two years, it appeared in several American rap songs. In the songs \"Hard in the Paint\" by Tyga and \"I'm not a Human Being\" by Lil Wayne, the singers insist that they are not basic bitches, while in the song \"Basic Bitch\" by The Game, the singer warns others to avoid basic bitches because they are fake.\n\nIn 2011, rapper Kreayshawn debuted her song \"Gucci Gucci,\" which included the chorus: \"Gucci Gucci, Louis Louis, Fendi Fendi, Prada ... basic bitches wear that shit so I don't even bother.\" In 2014 CollegeHumor released a parody video of a wife being diagnosed by a doctor as a \"basic bitch\", to the horror of her husband.\n\nFrom the 1990s until the early 2010s, both guys and girls from the predominantly white popular clique often combined budget preppy clothes with supposedly edgy elements of mainstream hip-hop fashion, in imitation of the outfits worn by early adopter black rappers such as Kanye West. Miniskirts, Nike brand sneakers, bleached blonde hair, pastel colors like pale blue or baby pink, expensive Aeropostale, Hollister Co or Abercrombie and Fitch designer gear purchased by one's parents, grey marl sweatpants, crop tops, white Converse sneakers, leggings, and Ugg boots remained common among American airheads, Aussie haul girls and Essex girls during the 2010s. Other items of clothing formerly fashionable in the 1990s, such as polo shirts with popped collars, have gone out of style.\n\nPopular girls in Britain, Australia and America are often accused of meanness, gossip, snobbery, narrowmindedness, homophobia, intolerance, flaunting their apparent wealth, backstabbing, shallowness, body shaming, slut shaming, contempt for the poor, and openly bullying other girls to maintain their own privileged position.\n\nReferring to an object or a person as \"basic\" has a variety of connotations. When used to refer to people, it can mean a criticism of shallow materialism; in songs that use the term, popular luxury brands like Gucci and Prada are referenced to suggest that the people who wear them are buying, rather than earning, their fashionability and social status. Decrying the basic bitch's love of bland, boring products like Ugg boots and Starbucks pumpkin spice lattes is a rhetorical technique that allows the singer to appear cooler by comparison. Rapper Kreayshawn describes a basic bitch as: \"A basic bitch is just someone who likes what's typical to like. The radio puts stuff on the radio that they think is typical and you should like it, and that's something a basic bitch would like. She likes those normal brands and wears them all the time because that's some basic shit.\" Lohanthony, who made a ten-second viral video in 2012 in which he said \"Calling all the basic bitches, calling the basic bitches, there's a new announcement: You're basic\", describes basic bitches as \"someone who does what everyone else is doing and isn't their own person at all\".\n\nIn an article in \"The Guardian\" titled, \"Why I'm proud to be a 'basic bitch'\", journalist Daisy Buchanan has criticized the cultural trend of using \"basic bitch\" as an insult, pointing out that those who call out other women for being basic bitches are \"dismissing all cultural feminine signifiers\" and \"make assumptions about a woman's interests and habits based on her gender.\" Widespread usage of the term to mock the behavior and interests of girlfriends or wives \"conforms to the most bland and uncreative stereotypes of late capitalist femininity\" and suggests a misogynistic attitude toward all women, according to Michael Reid Roberts in an article in \"The American Reader\".\n\nSince the 1980s, the airhead or popular clique have often been cast as the antagonists in high school and teen movies. Examples include \"Valley Girl\", \"The Clique\", \"Heathers\", \"Girl Fight\", \"A Cinderella Story\", \"Odd Girl Out\", \"Frenemies\", \"Pretty in Pink\", \"Mean Girls\", and \"Clueless\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13515827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13515827", "title": "Anarâškielâ servi", "text": "Anarâškielâ servi\n\nAnarâškielâ servi (Inari Sámi Language Association) is a Sámi association from Inari, Finland. The association was founded in the auditorium of the Ivalo Hotel in Ivalo on December 4, 1986 by Veikko Aikio, Ilmari Mattus and Matti Morottaja. \nMorottaja was chosen to be the association's first president.\n\nThe goal of the association is to promote Inari Sámi and its use. In 1997, the association established an Inari-Sámi language immersion program called Kielâpiervâl for 3-6-year-old children in a day care in Inari and Ivalo. The language-immersion program has been key in increasing the number of Inari Sámi speakers, especially amongst children and young adults. The association also publishes a number of books, textbooks, a calendar, films, music, etc. In addition, it puts out two Inari Sámi publications: the member bulletin Anarâš and the on-line Kierâš newspaper.\n\nThe association received the Gollegiella Award on November 17, 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "521555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521555", "title": "Ancient Rome", "text": "Ancient Rome\n\nIn historiography, ancient Rome is Roman civilization from the founding of the city of Rome in the 8th century BC to the collapse of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century AD, encompassing the Roman Kingdom, Roman Republic and Roman Empire until the fall of the western empire. \nThe civilization began as an Italic settlement in the Italian peninsula, dating from the 8th century BC, that grew into the city of Rome and which subsequently gave its name to the empire over which it ruled and to the widespread civilisation the empire developed. The Roman empire expanded to become one of the largest empires in the ancient world, though still ruled from the city, with an estimated 50 to 90 million inhabitants (roughly 20% of the world's population) and covering 5.0 million square kilometres at its height in AD 117.\n\nIn its many centuries of existence, the Roman state evolved from a monarchy to a Classical Republic and then to an increasingly autocratic empire. Through conquest and assimilation, it eventually dominated the Mediterranean region, Western Europe, Asia Minor, North Africa, and parts of Northern and Eastern Europe. It is often grouped into classical antiquity together with ancient Greece, and their similar cultures and societies are known as the Greco-Roman world.\n\nAncient Roman civilisation has contributed to modern government, law, politics, engineering, art, literature, architecture, technology, warfare, religion, language, and society. Rome professionalised and expanded its military and created a system of government called \"res publica\", the inspiration for modern republics such as the United States and France. It achieved impressive technological and architectural feats, such as the construction of an extensive system of aqueducts and roads, as well as the construction of large monuments, palaces, and public facilities.\n\nBy the end of the Republic (27 BC), Rome had conquered the lands around the Mediterranean and beyond: its domain extended from the Atlantic to Arabia and from the mouth of the Rhine to North Africa. The Roman Empire emerged with the end of the Republic and the dictatorship of Augustus Caesar. 721 years of Roman-Persian Wars started in 92 BC with their first war against Parthia. It would become the longest conflict in human history, and have major lasting effects and consequences for both empires. Under Trajan, the Empire reached its territorial peak. Republican mores and traditions started to decline during the imperial period, with civil wars becoming a prelude common to the rise of a new emperor. Splinter states, such as the Palmyrene Empire, would temporarily divide the Empire during the crisis of the 3rd century.\n\nPlagued by internal instability and attacked by various migrating peoples, the western part of the empire broke up into independent \"barbarian\" kingdoms in the 5th century. This splintering is a landmark historians use to divide the ancient period of universal history from the pre-medieval \"Dark Ages\" of Europe. The eastern part of the empire endured through the 5th century and remained a power throughout the \"Dark Ages\" and medieval times until its fall in 1453 AD. Although the citizens of the empire made no distinction, the empire is most commonly referred to as the \"Byzantine Empire\" by modern historians during the Middle Ages to differentiate between the state of antiquity and the nation it grew into.\n\nAccording to the founding myth of Rome, the city was founded on 21 April 753 BC by the twin brothers Romulus and Remus, who descended from the Trojan prince Aeneas, and who were grandsons of the Latin King Numitor of Alba Longa. King Numitor was deposed by his brother, Amulius, while Numitor's daughter, Rhea Silvia, gave birth to the twins. Since Rhea Silvia had been raped and impregnated by Mars, the Roman god of war, the twins were considered half-divine.\nThe new king, Amulius, feared Romulus and Remus would take back the throne, so he ordered them to be drowned. A she-wolf (or a shepherd's wife in some accounts) saved and raised them, and when they were old enough, they returned the throne of Alba Longa to Numitor.\n\nThe twins then founded their own city, but Romulus killed Remus in a quarrel over the location of the Roman Kingdom, though some sources state the quarrel was about who was going to rule or give his name to the city. Romulus became the source of the city's name. In order to attract people to the city, Rome became a sanctuary for the indigent, exiled, and unwanted. This caused a problem, in that Rome came to have a large male population but was bereft of women. Romulus visited neighboring towns and tribes and attempted to secure marriage rights, but as Rome was so full of undesirables he was refused. Legend says that the Latins invited the Sabines to a festival and stole their unmarried maidens, leading to the integration of the Latins with the Sabines.\n\nAnother legend, recorded by Greek historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus, says that Prince Aeneas led a group of Trojans on a sea voyage to found a new Troy, since the original was destroyed at the end of the Trojan War. After a long time in rough seas, they landed on the banks of the Tiber River. Not long after they landed, the men wanted to take to the sea again, but the women who were traveling with them did not want to leave. One woman, named Roma, suggested that the women burn the ships out at sea to prevent their leaving. At first, the men were angry with Roma, but they soon realized that they were in the ideal place to settle. They named the settlement after the woman who torched their ships.\n\nThe Roman poet Virgil recounted this legend in his classical epic poem the \"Aeneid\", where the Trojan prince Aeneas is destined by the gods to found a new Troy. In the epic, the women also refuse to go back to the sea, but they were not left on the Tiber. After reaching Italy, Aeneas, who wanted to marry Lavinia, was forced to wage war with her former suitor, Turnus. According to the poem, the Alban kings were descended from Aeneas, and thus Romulus, the founder of Rome, was his descendant.\n\nThe city of Rome grew from settlements around a ford on the river Tiber, a crossroads of traffic and trade. According to archaeological evidence, the village of Rome was probably founded some time in the 8th century BC, though it may go back as far as the 10th century BC, by members of the Latin tribe of Italy, on the top of the Palatine Hill.\n\nThe Etruscans, who had previously settled to the north in Etruria, seem to have established political control in the region by the late 7th century BC, forming an aristocratic and monarchical elite. The Etruscans apparently lost power by the late 6th century BC, and at this point, the original Latin and Sabine tribes reinvented their government by creating a republic, with much greater restraints on the ability of rulers to exercise power.\n\nRoman tradition and archaeological evidence point to a complex within the Forum Romanum as the seat of power for the king and the beginnings of the religious center there as well. Numa Pompilius the second king of Rome, succeeding Romulus, began Rome's building projects with his royal palace the Regia and the complex of the Vestal virgins.\n\nAccording to tradition and later writers such as Livy, the Roman Republic was established around 509 BC, when the last of the seven kings of Rome, Tarquin the Proud, was deposed by Lucius Junius Brutus and a system based on annually elected magistrates and various representative assemblies was established. A constitution set a series of checks and balances, and a separation of powers. The most important magistrates were the two consuls, who together exercised executive authority such as \"imperium\", or military command. The consuls had to work with the senate, which was initially an advisory council of the ranking nobility, or patricians, but grew in size and power.\n\nOther magistrates of the Republic include tribunes, quaestors, aediles, praetors and censors. The magistracies were originally restricted to patricians, but were later opened to common people, or plebeians. Republican voting assemblies included the \"comitia centuriata\" (centuriate assembly), which voted on matters of war and peace and elected men to the most important offices, and the \"comitia tributa\" (tribal assembly), which elected less important offices.\n\nIn the 4th century BC, Rome had come under attack by the Gauls, who now extended their power in the Italian peninsula beyond the Po Valley and through Etruria. On 16 July 390 BC, a Gallic army under the leadership of a tribal chieftain named Brennus, met the Romans on the banks of the Allia River just ten miles north of Rome. Brennus defeated the Romans, and the Gauls marched directly to Rome. Most Romans had fled the city, but some barricaded themselves upon the Capitoline Hill for a last stand. The Gauls looted and burned the city, then laid siege to the Capitoline Hill. The siege lasted seven months, and the Gauls then agreed to give the Romans peace in exchange for of gold. (According to later legend, the Roman supervising the weighing noticed that the Gauls were using false scales. The Romans then took up arms and defeated the Gauls; their victorious general Camillus remarked \"With iron, not with gold, Rome buys her freedom.\")\n\nThe Romans gradually subdued the other peoples on the Italian peninsula, including the Etruscans. The last threat to Roman hegemony in Italy came when Tarentum, a major Greek colony, enlisted the aid of Pyrrhus of Epirus in 281 BC, but this effort failed as well. The Romans secured their conquests by founding Roman colonies in strategic areas, thereby establishing stable control over the region of Italy they had conquered.\n\nIn the 3rd century BC Rome faced a new and formidable opponent: Carthage. Carthage was a rich, flourishing Phoenician city-state that intended to dominate the Mediterranean area. The two cities were allies in the times of Pyrrhus, who was a menace to both, but with Rome's hegemony in mainland Italy and the Carthaginian thalassocracy, these cities became the two major powers in the Western Mediterranean and their contention over the Mediterranean led to conflict.\n\nThe First Punic War began in 264 BC, when the city of Messana asked for Carthage's help in their conflicts with Hiero II of Syracuse. After the Carthaginian intercession, Messana asked Rome to expel the Carthaginians. Rome entered this war because Syracuse and Messana were too close to the newly conquered Greek cities of Southern Italy and Carthage was now able to make an offensive through Roman territory; along with this, Rome could extend its domain over Sicily.\n\nAlthough the Romans had experience in land battles, to defeat this new enemy, naval battles were necessary. Carthage was a maritime power, and the Roman lack of ships and naval experience would make the path to the victory a long and difficult one for the Roman Republic. Despite this, after more than 20 years of war, Rome defeated Carthage and a peace treaty was signed. Among the reasons for the Second Punic War was the subsequent war reparations Carthage acquiesced to at the end of the First Punic War.\n\nThe Second Punic War is famous for its brilliant generals: on the Punic side Hannibal and Hasdrubal; on the Roman, Marcus Claudius Marcellus, Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus and Publius Cornelius Scipio. Rome fought this war simultaneously with the First Macedonian War.\n\nThe war began with the audacious invasion of Hispania by Hannibal, the Carthaginian general who had led operations on Sicily in the First Punic War. Hannibal, son of Hamilcar Barca, rapidly marched through Hispania to the Italian Alps, causing panic among Rome's Italian allies. The best way found to defeat Hannibal's purpose of causing the Italians to abandon Rome was to delay the Carthaginians with a guerrilla war of attrition, a strategy propounded by Quintus Fabius Maximus, who would be nicknamed \"Cunctator\" (\"delayer\" in Latin), and whose strategy would be forever after known as Fabian. Due to this, Hannibal's goal was unachieved: he could not bring enough Italian cities to revolt against Rome and replenish his diminishing army, and he thus lacked the machines and manpower to besiege Rome.\n\nStill, Hannibal's invasion lasted over 16 years, ravaging Italy. Finally, when the Romans perceived that Hannibal's supplies were running out, they sent Scipio, who had defeated Hannibal's brother Hasdrubal in Spain, to invade the unprotected Carthaginian hinterland and force Hannibal to return to defend Carthage itself. The result was the ending of the Second Punic War by the famously decisive Battle of Zama in October 202 BC, which gave to Scipio his agnomen \"Africanus\". At great cost, Rome had made significant gains: the conquest of Hispania by Scipio, and of Syracuse, the last Greek realm in Sicily, by Marcellus.\n\nMore than a half century after these events, Carthage was humiliated and Rome was no more concerned about the African menace. The Republic's focus now was only to the Hellenistic kingdoms of Greece and revolts in Hispania. However, Carthage, after having paid the war indemnity, felt that its commitments and submission to Rome had ceased, a vision not shared by the Roman Senate. When in 151 BC Numidia invaded Carthage, Carthage asked for Roman intercession. Ambassadors were sent to Carthage, among them was Marcus Porcius Cato, who after seeing that Carthage could make a comeback and regain its importance, ended all his speeches, no matter what the subject was, by saying: \"Ceterum censeo Carthaginem esse delendam\" (\"Furthermore, I think that Carthage must be destroyed\").\n\nAs Carthage fought with Numidia without Roman consent, the Third Punic War began when Rome declared war against Carthage in 149 BC. Carthage resisted well at the first strike, with the participation of all the inhabitants of the city. However, Carthage could not withstand the attack of Scipio Aemilianus, who entirely destroyed the city and its walls, enslaved and sold all the citizens and gained control of that region, which became the province of Africa. Thus ended the Punic War period.\n\nAll these wars resulted in Rome's first overseas conquests (Sicily, Hispania and Africa) and the rise of Rome as a significant imperial power and began the end of democracy.\nAfter defeating the Macedonian and Seleucid Empires in the 2nd century BC, the Romans became the dominant people of the Mediterranean Sea. The conquest of the Hellenistic kingdoms brought the Roman and Greek cultures in closer contact and the Roman elite, once rural, became a luxurious and cosmopolitan one. At this time Rome was a consolidated empire – in the military view – and had no major enemies.\n\nForeign dominance led to internal strife. Senators became rich at the provinces' expense; soldiers, who were mostly small-scale farmers, were away from home longer and could not maintain their land; and the increased reliance on foreign slaves and the growth of \"latifundia\" reduced the availability of paid work.\n\nIncome from war booty, mercantilism in the new provinces, and tax farming created new economic opportunities for the wealthy, forming a new class of merchants, called the equestrians. The \"lex Claudia\" forbade members of the Senate from engaging in commerce, so while the equestrians could theoretically join the Senate, they were severely restricted in political power. The Senate squabbled perpetually, repeatedly blocked important land reforms and refused to give the equestrian class a larger say in the government.\n\nViolent gangs of the urban unemployed, controlled by rival Senators, intimidated the electorate through violence. The situation came to a head in the late 2nd century BC under the Gracchi brothers, a pair of tribunes who attempted to pass land reform legislation that would redistribute the major patrician landholdings among the plebeians. Both brothers were killed and the Senate passed reforms reversing the Gracchi brother's actions. This led to the growing divide of the plebeian groups (populares) and equestrian classes (optimates).\n\nGaius Marius, a \"novus homo\", who started his political career with the help of the powerful Metelli family soon become a leader of the Republic, holding the first of his seven consulships (an unprecedented number) in 107 BC by arguing that his former patron Quintus Caecilius Metellus Numidicus was not able to defeat and capture the Numidian king Jugurtha. Marius then started his military reform: in his recruitment to fight Jugurtha, he levied very poor (an innovation) and many landless men entered the army; this was the seed of securing loyalty of the army to the General in command.\n\nAt this time, Marius began his quarrel with Lucius Cornelius Sulla: Marius, who wanted to capture Jugurtha, asked Bocchus, son-in-law of Jugurtha, to hand him over. As Marius failed, Sulla, a general of Marius at that time, in a dangerous enterprise, went himself to Bocchus and convinced Bocchus to hand Jugurtha over to him. This was very provocative to Marius, since many of his enemies were encouraging Sulla to oppose Marius. Despite this, Marius was elected for five consecutive consulships from 104 to 100 BC, as Rome needed a military leader to defeat the Cimbri and the Teutones, who were threatening Rome.\nAfter Marius's retirement, Rome had a brief peace, during which the Italian \"socii\" (\"allies\" in Latin) requested Roman citizenship and voting rights. The reformist Marcus Livius Drusus supported their legal process but was assassinated, and the \"socii\" revolted against the Romans in the Social War. At one point both consuls were killed; Marius was appointed to command the army together with Lucius Julius Caesar and Sulla.\n\nBy the end of the Social War, Marius and Sulla were the premier military men in Rome and their partisans were in conflict, both sides jostling for power. In 88 BC, Sulla was elected for his first consulship and his first assignment was to defeat Mithridates VI of Pontus, whose intentions were to conquer the Eastern part of the Roman territories. However, Marius's partisans managed his installation to the military command, defying Sulla and the Senate, and this caused Sulla's wrath. To consolidate his own power, Sulla conducted a surprising and illegal action: he marched to Rome with his legions, killing all those who showed support to Marius's cause and impaling their heads in the Roman Forum. In the following year, 87 BC, Marius, who had fled at Sulla's march, returned to Rome while Sulla was campaigning in Greece. He seized power along with the consul Lucius Cornelius Cinna and killed the other consul, Gnaeus Octavius, achieving his seventh consulship. In an attempt to raise Sulla's anger, Marius and Cinna revenged their partisans by conducting a massacre.\n\nMarius died in 86 BC, due to age and poor health, just a few months after seizing power. Cinna exercised absolute power until his death in 84 BC. Sulla after returning from his Eastern campaigns, had a free path to reestablish his own power. In 83 BC he made his second march in Rome and began a time of terror: thousands of nobles, knights and senators were executed. Sulla also held two dictatorships and one more consulship, which began the crisis and decline of Roman Republic.\n\nIn the mid-1st century BC, Roman politics were restless. Political divisions in Rome became identified with two groupings, \"populares\" (who hoped for the support of the people) and \"optimates\" (the \"best\", who wanted to maintain exclusive aristocratic control). Sulla overthrew all populist leaders and his constitutional reforms removed powers (such as those of the tribune of the plebs) that had supported populist approaches. Meanwhile, social and economic stresses continued to build; Rome had become a metropolis with a super-rich aristocracy, debt-ridden aspirants, and a large proletariat often of impoverished farmers. The latter groups supported the Catilinarian conspiracy – a resounding failure, since the consul Marcus Tullius Cicero quickly arrested and executed the main leaders of the conspiracy.\n\nOnto this turbulent scene emerged Gaius Julius Caesar, from an aristocratic family of limited wealth. His aunt Julia was Marius' wife, and Caesar identified with the populares. To achieve power, Caesar reconciled the two most powerful men in Rome: Marcus Licinius Crassus, who had financed much of his earlier career, and Crassus' rival, Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus (anglicized as Pompey), to whom he married his daughter. He formed them into a new informal alliance including himself, the First Triumvirate (\"three men\"). This satisfied the interests of all three: Crassus, the richest man in Rome, became richer and ultimately achieved high military command; Pompey exerted more influence in the Senate; and Caesar obtained the consulship and military command in Gaul. So long as they could agree, the three were in effect the rulers of Rome.\n\nIn 54 BC, Caesar's daughter, Pompey's wife, died in childbirth, unraveling one link in the alliance. In 53 BC, Crassus invaded Parthia and was killed in the Battle of Carrhae. The Triumvirate disintegrated at Crassus' death. Crassus had acted as mediator between Caesar and Pompey, and, without him, the two generals manoeuvred against each other for power. Caesar conquered Gaul, obtaining immense wealth, respect in Rome and the loyalty of battle-hardened legions. He also became a clear menace to Pompey and was loathed by many \"optimates\". Confident that Caesar could be stopped by legal means, Pompey's party tried to strip Caesar of his legions, a prelude to Caesar's trial, impoverishment, and exile.\n\nTo avoid this fate, Caesar crossed the Rubicon River and invaded Rome in 49 BC. Pompey and his party fled from Italy, pursued by Caesar. The Battle of Pharsalus was a brilliant victory for Caesar and in this and other campaigns he destroyed all of the \"optimates\"' leaders: Metellus Scipio, Cato the Younger, and Pompey's son, Gnaeus Pompeius. Pompey was murdered in Egypt in 48 BC. Caesar was now pre-eminent over Rome, attracting the bitter enmity of many aristocrats. He was granted many offices and honours. In just five years, he held four consulships, two ordinary dictatorships, and two special dictatorships: one for ten years and another for perpetuity. He was murdered in 44 BC, on the Ides of March by the \"Liberatores\".\n\nCaesar's assassination caused political and social turmoil in Rome; without the dictator's leadership, the city was ruled by his friend and colleague, Mark Antony. Soon afterward, Octavius, whom Caesar adopted through his will, arrived in Rome. Octavian (historians regard Octavius as Octavian due to the Roman naming conventions) tried to align himself with the Caesarian faction. In 43 BC, along with Antony and Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, Caesar's best friend, he legally established the Second Triumvirate. This alliance would last for five years. Upon its formation, 130–300 senators were executed, and their property was confiscated, due to their supposed support for the \"Liberatores\".\n\nIn 42 BC, the Senate deified Caesar as \"Divus Iulius\"; Octavian thus became \"Divi filius\", the son of the deified. In the same year, Octavian and Antony defeated both Caesar's assassins and the leaders of the \"Liberatores\", Marcus Junius Brutus and Gaius Cassius Longinus, in the Battle of Philippi.\n\nThe Second Triumvirate was marked by the proscriptions of many senators and \"equites\": after a revolt led by Antony's brother Lucius Antonius, more than 300 senators and \"equites\" involved were executed on the anniversary of the Ides of March, although Lucius was spared. The Triumvirate proscribed several important men, including Cicero, whom Antony hated; Quintus Tullius Cicero, the younger brother of the orator; and Lucius Julius Caesar, cousin and friend of the acclaimed general, for his support of Cicero. However, Lucius was pardoned, perhaps because his sister Julia had intervened for him.\n\nThe Triumvirate divided the Empire among the triumvirs: Lepidus was given charge of Africa, Antony, the eastern provinces, and Octavian remained in Italia and controlled Hispania and Gaul.\n\nThe Second Triumvirate expired in 38 BC but was renewed for five more years. However, the relationship between Octavian and Antony had deteriorated, and Lepidus was forced to retire in 36 BC after betraying Octavian in Sicily. By the end of the Triumvirate, Antony was living in Ptolemaic Egypt, an independent and rich kingdom ruled by Antony's lover, Cleopatra VII. Antony's affair with Cleopatra was seen as an act of treason, since she was queen of another country. Additionally, Antony adopted a lifestyle considered too extravagant and Hellenistic for a Roman statesman.\n\nFollowing Antony's Donations of Alexandria, which gave to Cleopatra the title of \"Queen of Kings\", and to Antony's and Cleopatra's children the regal titles to the newly conquered Eastern territories, war between Octavian and Antony broke out. Octavian annihilated Egyptian forces in the Battle of Actium in 31 BC. Antony and Cleopatra committed suicide. Now Egypt was conquered by the Roman Empire, and for the Romans, a new era had begun.\n\nIn 27 BC and at the age of 36, Octavian was the sole Roman leader. In that year, he took the name \"Augustus\". That event is usually taken by historians as the beginning of Roman Empire – although Rome was an \"imperial\" state since 146 BC, when Carthage was razed by Scipio Aemilianus and Greece was conquered by Lucius Mummius. Officially, the government was republican, but Augustus assumed absolute powers. His reform of the government brought about a two-century period colloquially referred to by Romans as the Pax Romana.\n\nThe Julio-Claudian dynasty was established by Augustus. The emperors of this dynasty were: Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius and Nero. The dynasty is so-called due to the \"gens Julia\", family of Augustus, and the \"gens Claudia\", family of Tiberius. The Julio-Claudians started the destruction of republican values, but on the other hand, they boosted Rome's status as the central power in the world.\n\nWhile Caligula and Nero are usually remembered as dysfunctional emperors in popular culture, Augustus and Claudius are remembered as emperors who were successful in politics and the military. This dynasty instituted imperial tradition in Rome and frustrated any attempt to reestablish a Republic.\n\nAugustus gathered almost all the republican powers under his official title, \"princeps\": he had powers of consul, \"princeps senatus\", aedile, censor and tribune – including tribunician sacrosanctity. This was the base of an emperor's power. Augustus also styled himself as \"Imperator Gaius Julius Caesar divi filius\", \"Commander Gaius Julius Caesar, son of the deified one\". With this title he not only boasted his familial link to deified Julius Caesar, but the use of \"Imperator\" signified a permanent link to the Roman tradition of victory.\nHe also diminished the Senatorial class influence in politics by boosting the equestrian class. The senators lost their right to rule certain provinces, like Egypt; since the governor of that province was directly nominated by the emperor. The creation of the Praetorian Guard and his reforms in the military, creating a standing army with a fixed size of 28 legions, ensured his total control over the army.\n\nCompared with the Second Triumvirate's epoch, Augustus' reign as \"princeps\" was very peaceful. This peace and richness (that was granted by the agrarian province of Egypt) led the people and the nobles of Rome to support Augustus increasing his strength in political affairs.\n\nIn military activity, Augustus was absent at battles. His generals were responsible for the field command; gaining such commanders as Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa, Nero Claudius Drusus and Germanicus much respect from the populace and the legions. Augustus intended to extend the Roman Empire to the whole known world, and in his reign, Rome conquered Cantabria Aquitania, Raetia, Dalmatia, Illyricum and Pannonia.\n\nUnder Augustus's reign, Roman literature grew steadily in what is known as the Golden Age of Latin Literature. Poets like Virgil, Horace, Ovid and Rufus developed a rich literature, and were close friends of Augustus. Along with Maecenas, he stimulated patriotic poems, as Virgil's epic \"Aeneid\" and also historiographical works, like those of Livy. The works of this literary age lasted through Roman times, and are classics.\n\nAugustus also continued the shifts on the calendar promoted by Caesar, and the month of August is named after him. Augustus brought a peaceful and thriving era to Rome, known as \"Pax Augusta\" or \"Pax Romana\". Augustus died in 14 AD, but the empire's glory continued after his era.\n\nThe Julio-Claudians continued to rule Rome after Augustus' death and remained in power until the death of Nero in 68 AD. Augustus' favorites for succeeding him were already dead in his senescence: his nephew Marcellus died in 23 BC, his friend and military commander Agrippa in 12 BC and his grandson Gaius Caesar in 4 AD. Influenced by his wife, Livia Drusilla, Augustus appointed her son from another marriage, Tiberius, as his heir.\nThe Senate agreed with the succession, and granted to Tiberius the same titles and honors once granted to Augustus: the title of \"princeps\" and \"Pater patriae\", and the Civic Crown. However, Tiberius was not an enthusiast of political affairs: after agreement with the Senate, he retired to Capri in 26 AD, and left control of the city of Rome in the hands of the praetorian prefect Sejanus (until 31 AD) and Macro (from 31 to 37 AD). Tiberius was regarded as an evil and melancholic man, who may have ordered the murder of his relatives, the popular general Germanicus in 19 AD, and his own son Drusus Julius Caesar in 23 AD.\n\nTiberius died (or was killed) in 37 AD. The male line of the Julio-Claudians was limited to Tiberius' nephew Claudius, his grandson Tiberius Gemellus and his grand-nephew Caligula. As Gemellus was still a child, Caligula was chosen to rule the Empire. He was a popular leader in the first half of his reign, but became a crude and insane tyrant in his years controlling government. Suetonius states that he committed incest with his sisters, killed some men just for amusement and nominated a horse for a consulship.\n\nThe Praetorian Guard murdered Caligula four years after the death of Tiberius, and, with belated support from the senators, proclaimed his uncle Claudius as the new emperor. Claudius was not as authoritarian as Tiberius and Caligula. Claudius conquered Lycia and Thrace; his most important deed was the beginning of the conquest of Britain.\n\nClaudius was poisoned by his wife, Agrippina the Younger in 54 AD. His heir was Nero, son of Agrippina and her former husband, since Claudius' son Britannicus had not reached manhood upon his father's death. Nero is widely known as the first persecutor of Christians and for the Great Fire of Rome, rumoured to have been started by the emperor himself. Nero faced many revolts during his reign, like the Pisonian conspiracy and the First Jewish-Roman War. Although Nero defeated these rebels, he could not overthrow the revolt led by Servius Sulpicius Galba. The Senate soon declared Nero a public enemy, and he committed suicide.\n\nThe Flavians were the second dynasty to rule Rome. By 68 AD, year of Nero's death, there was no chance of return to the old and traditional Roman Republic, thus a new emperor had to rise. After the turmoil in the Year of the Four Emperors, Titus Flavius Vespasianus (anglicized as Vespasian) took control of the Empire and established a new dynasty. Under the Flavians, Rome continued its expansion, and the state remained secure.\n\nVespasian was a general under Claudius and Nero. He fought as a commander in the First Jewish-Roman War along with his son Titus. Following the turmoil of the Year of the Four Emperors, in 69 AD, four emperors were enthroned: Galba, Otho, Vitellius, and, lastly, Vespasian, who crushed Vitellius' forces and became emperor.\n\nHe reconstructed many buildings which were uncompleted, like a statue of Apollo and the temple of \"Divus Claudius\" (\"the deified Claudius\"), both initiated by Nero. Buildings once destroyed by the Great Fire of Rome were rebuilt, and he revitalized the Capitol. Vespasian also started the construction of the Flavian Amphitheater, more commonly known as the Colosseum.\n\nThe historians Josephus and Pliny the Elder wrote their works during Vespasian's reign. Vespasian was Josephus' sponsor and Pliny dedicated his \"Naturalis Historia\" to Titus, son of Vespasian.\n\nVespasian sent legions to defend the eastern frontier in Cappadocia, extended the occupation in Britain and reformed the tax system. He died in 79 AD.\n\nTitus had a short-lived rule; he was emperor from 79–81 AD. He finished the Flavian Amphitheater, which was constructed with war spoils from the First Jewish-Roman War, and promoted games celebrating the victory over the Jews that lasted for a hundred days. These games included gladiatorial combats, chariot races and a sensational mock naval battle on the flooded grounds of the Colosseum.\n\nTitus constructed a line of roads and fortifications on the borders of modern-day Germany; and his general Gnaeus Julius Agricola conquered much of Britain, extending the Roman world to as far as Scotland. On the other hand, his failed war against Dacia was a humiliating defeat.\n\nTitus died of fever in 81 AD, and was succeeded by his brother Domitian. As emperor, Domitian assumed totalitarian characteristics, thought he could be a new Augustus, and tried to make a personal cult of himself.\n\nDomitian ruled for fifteen years, and his reign was marked by his attempts to compare himself to the gods. He constructed at least two temples in honour of Jupiter, the supreme deity in Roman religion. He also liked to be called \"Dominus et Deus\" (\"Master and God\"). The nobles disliked his rule, and he was murdered by a conspiracy in 96 AD.\n\nThe Nerva–Antonine dynasty from 96 AD to 192 AD was the rule of the emperors Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius, Marcus Aurelius, Lucius Verus, and Commodus. During their rule, Rome reached its territorial and economical apogee. This was a time of peace for Rome. The criteria for choosing an emperor were the qualities of the candidate and no longer ties of kinship; additionally, there were no civil wars or military defeats in this period.\n\nFollowing Domitian's murder, the Senate rapidly appointed Nerva to hold imperial dignity. This was the first time that senators chose the emperor since Octavian was honored with the titles of \"princeps\" and \"Augustus\". Nerva had a noble ancestry, and he had served as an advisor to Nero and the Flavians. His rule restored many of the liberties once assumed by Domitian and started the last golden era of Rome.\n\nNerva died in 98 AD and his successor and heir was the general Trajan. Trajan was born in a non-patrician family from Hispania and his preeminence emerged in the army, under Domitian. He is the second of the Five Good Emperors, the first being Nerva.\n\nTrajan was greeted by the people of Rome with enthusiasm, which he justified by governing well and without the bloodiness that had marked Domitian's reign. He freed many people who had been unjustly imprisoned by Domitian and returned private property that Domitian had confiscated; a process begun by Nerva before his death.\n\nTrajan conquered Dacia, and defeated the king Decebalus, who had defeated Domitian's forces. In the First Dacian War (101–102), the defeated Dacia became a client kingdom; in the Second Dacian War (105–106), Trajan completely devastated the enemy's resistance and annexed Dacia to the Empire. Trajan also annexed the client state of Nabatea to form the province of Arabia Petraea, which included the lands of southern Syria and northwestern Arabia.\n\nHe erected many buildings that survive to this day, such as Trajan's Forum, Trajan's Market and Trajan's Column. His main architect was Apollodorus of Damascus; Apollodorus made the project of the Forum and of the Column, and also reformed the Pantheon. Trajan's triumphal arches in Ancona and Beneventum are other constructions projected by him. In the Second Dacian War, Apollodorus made a great bridge over the Danube for Trajan.\n\nTrajan's final war was against Parthia. When Parthia appointed a king for Armenia who was unacceptable to Rome (Parthia and Rome shared dominance over Armenia), he declared war. He probably wanted to be the first Roman leader to conquer Parthia, and repeat the glory of Alexander the Great, conqueror of Asia, whom Trajan next followed in the clash of Greek-Romans and the Persian cultures. In 113 he marched to Armenia and deposed the local king. In 115 Trajan turned south into the core of Parthian hegemony, took the Northern Mesopotamian cities of Nisibis and Batnae, organized a province of Mesopotamia (116), and issued coins announcing that Armenia and Mesopotamia was under the authority of the Roman people.\n\nIn that same year, he captured Seleucia and the Parthian capital Ctesiphon. After defeating a Parthian revolt and a Jewish revolt, he withdrew due to health issues. In 117, his illness grew and he died of edema. He nominated Hadrian as his heir. Under Trajan's leadership the Roman Empire reached the peak of its territorial expansion; Rome's dominion now spanned .\n\nThe prosperity brought by Nerva and Trajan continued in the reigns of subsequent emperors, from Hadrian to Marcus Aurelius. Hadrian withdrew all the troops stationed in Parthia and Mesopotamia, abandoning Trajan's conquests. Although facing another revolt in Judea, Hadrian's government was very peaceful, since he avoided wars: he constructed fortifications and walls, like the famous Hadrian's Wall between Roman Britain and the barbarians of modern-day Scotland.\nA famous philhellenist, Hadrian promoted culture, specially the Greek. He also forbade torture and humanized the laws. Hadrian built many aqueducts, baths, libraries and theaters; additionally, he traveled nearly every single province in the Empire to check the military and infrastructural conditions.\n\nAfter Hadrian's death in 138 AD, his successor Antoninus Pius built temples, theaters, and mausoleums, promoted the arts and sciences, and bestowed honours and financial rewards upon the teachers of rhetoric and philosophy. Antoninus made few initial changes when he became emperor, leaving intact as far as possible the arrangements instituted by Hadrian. Antoninus expanded the Roman Britain by invading southern Scotland and building the Antonine Wall. He also continued Hadrian's policy of humanizing the laws. He died in 161 AD.\n\nMarcus Aurelius, known as the Philosopher, was the last of the Five Good Emperors. He was a stoic philosopher and wrote the \"Meditations\". He defeated barbarian tribes in the Marcomannic Wars as well as the Parthian Empire. His co-emperor, Lucius Verus died in 169 AD, probably victim of the Antonine Plague, a pandemic that killed nearly five million people through the Empire in 165–180 AD.\n\nFrom Nerva to Marcus Aurelius, the empire achieved an unprecedented happy and glorious status. The powerful influence of laws and manners had gradually cemented the union of the provinces. All the citizens enjoyed and abused the advantages of wealth. The image of a free constitution was preserved with decent reverence. The Roman senate appeared to possess the sovereign authority, and devolved on the emperors all the executive powers of government. The Five Good Emperors' rule is considered the golden era of the Empire.\n\nCommodus, son of Marcus Aurelius, became emperor after his father's death. He is not counted as one of the Five Good Emperors. Firstly, this was due to his direct kinship with the latter emperor; in addition, he was passive in comparison with his predecessors, who were frequently leading their armies in person. Commodus usually took part on gladiatorial combats, which often symbolized brutality and roughness. He killed many citizens, and his reign was the beginning of Roman decadence, as stated Cassius Dio: \"(Rome has transformed) from a kingdom of gold to one of iron and rust.\"\n\nCommodus was killed by a conspiracy involving Quintus Aemilius Laetus and his wife Marcia in late 192 AD. The following year is known as the Year of the Five Emperors, during which Helvius Pertinax, Didius Julianus, Pescennius Niger, Clodius Albinus and Septimius Severus held the imperial dignity. Pertinax, a member of the senate who had been one of Marcus Aurelius's right hand men, was the choice of Laetus, and he ruled vigorously and judiciously. Laetus soon became jealous and instigated Pertinax's murder by the Praetorian Guard, who then auctioned the empire to the highest bidder, Didius Julianus, for 25,000 sesterces per man. The people of Rome were appalled and appealed to the frontier legions to save them. The legions of three frontier provinces—Britain, Pannonia Superior, and Syria—resented being excluded from the \"donative\" and replied by declaring their individual generals to be emperor. Lucius Septimius Severus Geta, the Pannonian commander, bribed the opposing forces, pardoned the Praetorian Guards and installed himself as emperor. He and his successors governed with the legions' support. The changes on coinage and military expenditures were the root of the financial crisis that marked the Crisis of the Third Century.\n\nSeverus was enthroned after invading Rome and having Didius Julianus killed. His two other rivals, Pescennius Niger and Clodius Albinus, were both were hailed by other factions as \"Imperator\". Severus quickly subdued Niger in Byzantium and promised to Albinus the title of Caesar (which meant he would be a co-emperor). However, Severus betrayed Albinus by blaming him for a plot against his life. Severus marched to Gaul and defeated Albinus. For these acts, Machiavelli said that Severus was \"a ferocious lion and a clever fox\"\n\nSeverus attempted to revive totalitarianism and in an address to people and the Senate, he praised the severity and cruelty of Marius and Sulla, which worried the senators. When Parthia invaded Roman territory, Severus waged war against that country. He seized the cities of Nisibis, Babylon and Seleucia. Reaching Ctesiphon, the Parthian capital, he ordered plundering and his army slew and captured many people. Albeit this military success, he failed in invading Hatra, a rich Arabian city. Severus killed his legate, as the latter was gaining respect from the legions; and his soldiers were hit by famine. After this disastrous campaign, he withdrew.\n\nSeverus also intended to vanquish the whole of Britain. To achieve this, he waged war against the Caledonians. After many casualties in the army due to the terrain and the barbarians' ambushes, Severus went himself to the field. However, he became ill and died in 211 AD, at the age of 65.\n\nUpon the death of Severus, his sons Caracalla and Geta were made emperors. During their youth, their squabbles had divided Rome into two factions. In that same year Caracalla had his brother, a youth, assassinated in his mother's arms, and may have murdered 20,000 of Geta's followers. Like his father, Caracalla was warlike. He continued Severus' policy, and gained respect from the legions. Caracalla was a cruel man, and was pursued by the guilt of his brother's murder. He ordered the death of people of his own circle, like his tutor, Cilo, and a friend of his father, Papinian.\n\nKnowing that the citizens of Alexandria disliked him and were speaking ill of his character, he served a banquet for its notable citizens, after which his soldiers killed all the guests. From the security of the temple of Sarapis, he then directed an in-discriminant slaughter of Alexandria's people. In 212, he issued the Edict of Caracalla, giving full Roman citizenship to all free men living in the Empire, and at the same time raised the inheritance tax, levied only on Roman citizens, to ten percent. A report that a soothsayer had predicted that the Praetorian prefect Macrinus and his son were to rule over the empire was dutifully sent to Caracalla. But the report fell into the hands of Macrinus, who felt he must act or die. Macrinus conspired to have Caracalla assassinated by one of his soldiers during a pilgrimage to the Temple of the Moon in Carrhae, in 217 AD.\n\nThe incompetent Macrinus, assumed power, but soon removed himself from Rome to the east and Antioch. His brief reign ended in 218, when the youngster Bassianus, high priest of the temple of the Sun at Emesa, and supposedly illegitimate son of Caracalla, was declared Emperor by the disaffected soldiers of Macrinus. Bribes gained Bassianus support from the legionaries and they fought against Macrinus and his Praetorian guards. He adopted the name of Antoninus but history has named him after his Sun god Elagabalus, represented on Earth in the form of a large black stone. Elagabalus was an incompetent and lascivious ruler, who was well known for extreme extravagance, that offended all but his favorites. Cassius Dio, Herodian and the Historia Augusta have many accounts about his extravagance. He adopted his cousin, Alexander Severus, as Caesar, grew jealous, and attempted to assassinate him. The Praetorian guard preferred Alexander, murdered Elagabalus, dragged his mutilated corpse through the streets of Rome, and threw it into the Tiber.\n\nElagabalus was succeeded by his cousin Alexander Severus. Alexander waged war against many foes, like the revitalized Persia and German peoples who invaded Gaul. His losses made the soldiers dissatisfied with the emperor, and some of them killed him during his German campaign, in 235 AD.\n\nA disastrous scenario emerged after the death of Alexander Severus: the Roman state was plagued by civil wars, external invasions, political chaos, pandemics and economic depression. The old Roman values had fallen, and Mithraism and Christianity had begun to spread through the populace. Emperors were no longer men linked with nobility; they usually were born in lower-classes of distant parts of the Empire. These men rose to prominence through military ranks, and became emperors through civil wars.\n\nThere were 26 emperors in a 49-year period, a signal of political instability. Maximinus Thrax was the first ruler of that time, governing for just three years. Others ruled just for a few months, like Gordian I, Gordian II, Balbinus and Hostilian. The population and the frontiers were abandoned, since the emperors were mostly concerned with defeating rivals and establishing their power.\n\nThe economy also suffered during that epoch. The massive military expenditures from the Severi caused a devaluation of Roman coins. Hyperinflation came at this time as well. The Plague of Cyprian broke out in 250 and killed a huge portion of the population.\n\nIn 260 AD, the provinces of Syria Palaestina, Asia Minor and Egypt separated from the rest of the Roman state to form the Palmyrene Empire, ruled by Queen Zenobia and centered on Palmyra. In that same year the Gallic Empire was created by Postumus, retaining Britain and Gaul. These countries separated from Rome after the capture of emperor Valerian by the Sassanids of Persia, the first Roman ruler to be captured by his enemies; it was a humiliating fact for the Romans.\n\nThe crisis began to recede during the reigns of Claudius Gothicus (268–270), who defeated the Gothic invaders, and Aurelian (271–275), who reconquered both the Gallic and Palmyrene Empires. The crisis was overcome during the reign of Diocletian.\n\nIn 284 AD, Diocletian was hailed as Imperator by the eastern army. Diocletian healed the empire from the crisis, by political and economic shifts. A new form of government was established: the Tetrarchy. The Empire was divided among four emperors, two in the West and two in the East. The first tetrarchs were Diocletian (in the East), Maximian (in the West), and two junior emperors, Galerius (in the East) and Flavius Constantius (in the West). To adjust the economy, Diocletian made several tax reforms.\n\nDiocletian expelled the Persians who plundered Syria and conquered some barbarian tribes with Maximian. He adopted many behaviors of Eastern monarchs, like wearing pearls and golden sandals and robes. Anyone in the presence of the emperor had now to prostrate himself – a common act in the East, but never practiced in Rome before. Diocletian did not use a disguised form of Republic, as the other emperors since Augustus had done. Between 290 and 330, half a dozen new capitals had been established by the members of the Tetrarchy, officially or not: Antioch, Nicomedia, Thessalonike, Sirmium, Milan, and Trier.\n\nDiocletian was also responsible for a significant Christian persecution. In 303 he and Galerius started the persecution and ordered the destruction of all the Christian churches and scripts and forbade Christian worship.\n\nDiocletian abdicated in 305 AD together with Maximian, thus, he was the first Roman emperor to resign. His reign ended the traditional form of imperial rule, the Principate (from princeps) and started the Dominate (from Dominus, \"Master\").\nConstantine assumed the empire as a tetrarch in 306. He conducted many wars against the other tetrarchs. Firstly he defeated Maxentius in 312. In 313, he issued the Edict of Milan, which granted liberty for Christians to profess their religion. Constantine was converted to Christianity, enforcing the Christian faith. He began the Christianization of the Empire and of Europe – a process concluded by the Catholic Church in the Middle Ages.\n\nHe was defeated by the Franks and the Alamanni during 306–308. In 324 he defeated another tetrarch, Licinius, and controlled all the empire, as it was before Diocletian. To celebrate his victories and Christianity's relevance, he rebuilt Byzantium and renamed it Nova Roma (\"New Rome\"); but the city soon gained the informal name of Constantinople (\"City of Constantine\"). The reign of Julian, who under the influence of his adviser Mardonius attempted to restore Classical Roman and Hellenistic religion, only briefly interrupted the succession of Christian emperors. Constantinople served as a new capital for the Empire. In fact, Rome had lost its central importance since the Crisis of the Third Century-–Mediolanum was the western capital from 286 to 330, until the reign of Honorius, when Ravenna was made capital, in the 5th century.\n\nConstantine's administrative and monetary reforms, that reunited the Empire under one emperor, and rebuilt the city of Byzantium changed the high period of the ancient world.\n\nIn the late 4th and 5th centuries the Western Empire entered a critical stage which terminated with the fall of the Western Roman Empire. Under the last emperors of the Constantinian dynasty and the Valentinian dynasty, Rome lost decisive battles against the Sasanian Empire and Germanic barbarians: in 363, emperor Julian the Apostate was killed in the Battle of Samarra, against the Persians and the Battle of Adrianople cost the life of emperor Valens (364–378); the victorious Goths were never expelled from the Empire nor assimilated. The next emperor, Theodosius I (379–395), gave even more force to the Christian faith, and after his death, the Empire was divided into the Eastern Roman Empire, ruled by Arcadius and the Western Roman Empire, commanded by Honorius, both of which were Theodosius' sons.\n\nThe situation became more critical in 408, after the death of Stilicho, a general who tried to reunite the Empire and repel barbarian invasion in the early years of the 5th century. The professional field army collapsed. In 410, the Theodosian dynasty saw the Visigoths sack Rome. During the 5th century, the Western Empire experienced a significant reduction of its territory. The Vandals conquered North Africa, the Visigoths claimed Gaul, Hispania was taken by the Suebi, Britain was abandoned by the central government, and the Empire suffered further from the invasions of Attila, chief of the Huns.\n\nGeneral Orestes refused to meet the demands of the barbarian \"allies\" who now formed the army, and tried to expel them from Italy. Unhappy with this, their chieftain Odoacer defeated and killed Orestes, invaded Ravenna and dethroned Romulus Augustus, son of Orestes. This event of 476, usually marks the end of Classical antiquity and beginning of the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Roman noble and former emperor Julius Nepos continued to rule as emperor from Dalmatia even after the deposition of Romulus Augustus until his death in 480. Some historians consider him to be the last emperor of the Western Empire instead of Romulus Augustus.\n\nAfter some 1200 years of independence and nearly 700 years as a great power, the rule of Rome in the West ended. Various reasons for Rome's fall have been proposed ever since, including loss of Republicanism, moral decay, military tyranny, class war, slavery, economic stagnation, environmental change, disease, the decline of the Roman race, as well as the inevitable ebb and flow that all civilizations experience. At the time many pagans argued that Christianity and the decline of traditional Roman religion were responsible; some rationalist thinkers of the modern era attribute the fall to a change from a martial to a more pacifist religion that lessened the number of available soldiers; while Christians such as Augustine of Hippo argued that the sinful nature of Roman society itself was to blame.\n\nThe Eastern Empire had a different fate. It survived for almost 1000 years after the fall of its Western counterpart and became the most stable Christian realm during the Middle Ages. During the 6th century, Justinian reconquered Northern Africa and Italy. But within a few years of Justinian's death, Byzantine possessions in Italy were greatly reduced by the Lombards who settled in the peninsula. In the east, partially due to the weakening effect of the Plague of Justinian, the Byzantines were threatened by the rise of Islam. Its followers rapidly brought about the conquest of Syria, the conquest of Armenia and the conquest of Egypt during the Byzantine-Arab Wars, and soon presented a direct threat to Constantinople. In the following century, the Arabs also captured southern Italy and Sicily. On the west, Slavic populations were also able to penetrate deep into the Balkans.\n\nThe Byzantines, however, managed to stop further Islamic expansion into their lands during the 8th century and, beginning in the 9th century, reclaimed parts of the conquered lands. In 1000 AD, the Eastern Empire was at its height: Basil II reconquered Bulgaria and Armenia, and culture and trade flourished. However, soon after, this expansion was abruptly stopped in 1071 with the Byzantine defeat in the Battle of Manzikert. The aftermath of this battle sent the empire into a protracted period of decline. Two decades of internal strife and Turkic invasions ultimately led Emperor Alexios I Komnenos to send a call for help to the Western European kingdoms in 1095.\n\nThe West responded with the Crusades, eventually resulting in the Sack of Constantinople by participants of the Fourth Crusade. The conquest of Constantinople in 1204 fragmented what remained of the Empire into successor states; the ultimate victor was the Empire of Nicaea. After the recapture of Constantinople by Imperial forces, the Empire was little more than a Greek state confined to the Aegean coast. The Byzantine Empire collapsed when Mehmed the Conqueror conquered Constantinople on 29 May, 1453.\n\nThe imperial city of Rome was the largest urban center in the empire, with a population variously estimated from 450,000 to close to one million. The public spaces in Rome resounded with such a din of hooves and clatter of iron chariot wheels that Julius Caesar had once proposed a ban on chariot traffic during the day. Historical estimates show that around 20 percent of the population under jurisdiction of ancient Rome (25–40%, depending on the standards used, in Roman Italy) lived in innumerable urban centers, with population of 10,000 and more and several military settlements, a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards. Most of those centers had a forum, temples, and other buildings similar to Rome's. Average life expectancy was about 28.\n\nRoman society is largely viewed as hierarchical, with slaves (\"servi\") at the bottom, freedmen (\"liberti\") above them, and free-born citizens (\"cives\") at the top. Free citizens were also divided by class. The broadest, and earliest, division was between the patricians, who could trace their ancestry to one of the 100 Patriarchs at the founding of the city, and the plebeians, who could not. This became less important in the later Republic, as some plebeian families became wealthy and entered politics, and some patrician families fell economically. Anyone, patrician or plebeian, who could count a consul as his ancestor was a noble (\"nobilis\"); a man who was the first of his family to hold the consulship, such as Marius or Cicero, was known as a \"novus homo\" (\"new man\") and ennobled his descendants. Patrician ancestry, however, still conferred considerable prestige, and many religious offices remained restricted to patricians.\n\nA class division originally based on military service became more important. Membership of these classes was determined periodically by the Censors, according to property. The wealthiest were the Senatorial class, who dominated politics and command of the army. Next came the equestrians (\"equites\", sometimes translated \"knights\"), originally those who could afford a warhorse, and who formed a powerful mercantile class. Several further classes, originally based on the military equipment their members could afford, followed, with the \"proletarii\", citizens who had no property at all, at the bottom. Before the reforms of Marius they were ineligible for military service and are often described as being just above freed slaves in wealth and prestige.\n\nVoting power in the Republic depended on class. Citizens were enrolled in voting \"tribes\", but the tribes of the richer classes had fewer members than the poorer ones, all the \"proletarii\" being enrolled in a single tribe. Voting was done in class order, from top down, and stopped as soon as most of the tribes had been reached, so the poorer classes were often unable to cast their votes.\n\nWomen shared some basic rights with their male counterparts, but were not fully regarded as citizens and were thus not allowed to vote or take part in politics. At the same time the limited rights of women were gradually expanded (due to emancipation) and women reached freedom from \"paterfamilias\", gained property rights and even had more juridical rights than their husbands, but still no voting rights, and were absent from politics.\n\nAllied foreign cities were often given the Latin Right, an intermediary level between full citizens and foreigners (\"peregrini\"), which gave their citizens rights under Roman law and allowed their leading magistrates to become full Roman citizens. While there were varying degrees of Latin rights, the main division was between those \"cum suffragio\" (\"with vote\"; enrolled in a Roman tribe and able to take part in the \"comitia tributa\") and \"sine suffragio\" (\"without vote\"; could not take part in Roman politics). Most of Rome's Italian allies were given full citizenship after the Social War of 91–88 BC, and full Roman citizenship was extended to all free-born men in the Empire by Caracalla in 212.\n\nThe basic units of Roman society were households and families. Households included the head (usually the father) of the household, \"pater familias\" (father of the family), his wife, children, and other relatives. In the upper classes, slaves and servants were also part of the household. The power of the head of the household was supreme (\"patria potestas\", \"father's power\") over those living with him: He could force marriage (usually for money) and divorce, sell his children into slavery, claim his dependents' property as his own, and even had the right to punish or kill family members (though this last right apparently ceased to be exercised after the 1st century BC).\n\n\"Patria potestas\" even extended over adult sons with their own households: A man was not considered a \"paterfamilias\", nor could he truly hold property, while his own father lived. During the early period of Rome's history, a daughter, when she married, fell under the control (\"manus\") of the \"paterfamilias\" of her husband's household, although by the late Republic this fell out of fashion, as a woman could choose to continue recognizing her father's family as her true family. However, as Romans reckoned descent through the male line, any children she had belonged to her husband's family.\n\nLittle affection was shown for the children of Rome. The mother or an elderly relative often raised both boys and girls. Unwanted children were often sold as slaves. Children might have waited on tables for the family, but they could not have participated in the conversation.\n\nIn noble families a Greek nurse usually taught the children Latin and Greek. Their father taught the boys how to swim and ride, although he sometimes hired a slave to teach them instead. At seven, a boy began his education. Having no school building, classes were held on a rooftop (if dark, the boy had to carry a lantern to school). Wax-covered boards were used as paper, papyrus, and parchment were too expensive—or he could just write in the sand. A loaf of bread to be eaten was also carried.\n\nGroups of related households formed a family (\"gens\"). Families were based on blood ties or adoption, but were also political and economic alliances. Especially during the Roman Republic, some powerful families, or \"Gentes Maiores\", came to dominate political life.\n\nIn ancient Rome, marriage was often regarded more as a financial and political alliance than as a romantic association, especially in the upper classes (see marriage in ancient Rome). Fathers usually began seeking husbands for their daughters when these reached an age between twelve and fourteen. The husband was usually older than the bride. While upper class girls married very young, there is evidence that lower class women often married in their late teens or early 20s.\n\nIn the early Republic, there were no public schools, so boys were taught to read and write by their parents, or by educated slaves, called \"paedagogi\", usually of Greek origin. The primary aim of education during this period was to train young men in agriculture, warfare, Roman traditions, and public affairs. Young boys learned much about civic life by accompanying their fathers to religious and political functions, including the Senate for the sons of nobles. The sons of nobles were apprenticed to a prominent political figure at the age of 16, and campaigned with the army from the age of 17 (this system was still in use among some noble families into the imperial era). Educational practices were modified after the conquest of the Hellenistic kingdoms in the 3rd century BC and the resulting Greek influence, although Roman educational practices were still much different from Greek ones. If their parents could afford it, boys and some girls at the age of 7 were sent to a private school outside the home called a \"ludus\", where a teacher (called a \"litterator\" or a \"magister ludi\", and often of Greek origin) taught them basic reading, writing, arithmetic, and sometimes Greek, until the age of 11.\n\nBeginning at age 12, students went to secondary schools, where the teacher (now called a \"grammaticus\") taught them about Greek and Roman literature. At the age of 16, some students went on to rhetoric school (where the teacher, usually Greek, was called a \"rhetor\"). Education at this level prepared students for legal careers, and required that the students memorize the laws of Rome. Pupils went to school every day, except religious festivals and market days. There were also summer holidays.\n\nInitially, Rome was ruled by kings, who were elected from each of Rome's major tribes in turn. The exact nature of the king's power is uncertain. He may have held near-absolute power, or may also have merely been the chief executive of the Senate and the people. At least in military matters, the king's authority (\"Imperium\") was likely absolute. He was also the head of the state religion. In addition to the authority of the King, there were three administrative assemblies: the Senate, which acted as an advisory body for the King; the Comitia Curiata, which could endorse and ratify laws suggested by the King; and the Comitia Calata, which was an assembly of the priestly college that could assemble the people to bear witness to certain acts, hear proclamations, and declare the feast and holiday schedule for the next month.\n\nIn the Republic, the Senate held actual authority (\"auctoritas\"), but no real legislative power; it was technically only an advisory council. However, as the Senators were individually very influential, it was difficult to accomplish anything against the collective will of the Senate. New Senators were chosen from among the most accomplished patricians by Censors (\"Censura\"), who could also remove a Senator from his office if he was found \"morally corrupt\"; a charge that could include bribery or, as under Cato the Elder, embracing one's wife in public. Later, under the reforms of the dictator Sulla, Quaestors were made automatic members of the Senate, though most of his reforms did not survive.\n\nThe Republic had no fixed bureaucracy, and collected taxes through the practice of tax farming. Government positions such as quaestor, aedile, or praefect were funded by the office-holder. To prevent any citizen from gaining too much power, new magistrates were elected annually and had to share power with a colleague. For example, under normal conditions, the highest authority was held by two consuls. In an emergency, a temporary dictator could be appointed. Throughout the Republic, the administrative system was revised several times to comply with new demands. In the end, it proved inefficient for controlling the ever-expanding dominion of Rome, contributing to the establishment of the Roman Empire.\n\nIn the early Empire, the pretense of a republican form of government was maintained. The Roman Emperor was portrayed as only a \"princeps\", or \"first citizen\", and the Senate gained legislative power and all legal authority previously held by the popular assemblies. However, the rule of the Emperors became increasingly autocratic, and the Senate was reduced to an advisory body appointed by the Emperor. The Empire did not inherit a set bureaucracy from the Republic, since the Republic did not have any permanent governmental structures apart from the Senate. The Emperor appointed assistants and advisers, but the state lacked many institutions, such as a centrally planned budget. Some historians have cited this as a significant reason for the decline of the Roman Empire.\n\nThe roots of the legal principles and practices of the ancient Romans may be traced to the Law of the Twelve Tables promulgated in 449 BC and to the codification of law issued by order of Emperor Justinian I around 530 AD (see Corpus Juris Civilis). Roman law as preserved in Justinian's codes continued into the Byzantine Empire, and formed the basis of similar codifications in continental Western Europe. Roman law continued, in a broader sense, to be applied throughout most of Europe until the end of the 17th century.\n\nThe major divisions of the law of ancient Rome, as contained within the Justinian and Theodosian law codes, consisted of \"Ius Civile\", \"Ius Gentium\", and \"Ius Naturale\". The \"Ius Civile\" (\"Citizen Law\") was the body of common laws that applied to Roman citizens. The \"Praetores Urbani\" (\"sg. Praetor Urbanus\") were the people who had jurisdiction over cases involving citizens. The \"Ius Gentium\" (\"Law of nations\") was the body of common laws that applied to foreigners, and their dealings with Roman citizens. The \"Praetores Peregrini\" (\"sg. Praetor Peregrinus\") were the people who had jurisdiction over cases involving citizens and foreigners. \"Ius Naturale\" encompassed natural law, the body of laws that were considered common to all beings.\n\nAncient Rome commanded a vast area of land, with tremendous natural and human resources. As such, Rome's economy remained focused on farming and trade. Agricultural free trade changed the Italian landscape, and by the 1st century BC, vast grape and olive estates had supplanted the yeoman farmers, who were unable to match the imported grain price. The annexation of Egypt, Sicily and Tunisia in North Africa provided a continuous supply of grains. In turn, olive oil and wine were Italy's main exports. Two-tier crop rotation was practiced, but farm productivity was low, around 1 ton per hectare.\n\nIndustrial and manufacturing activities were smaller. The largest such activities were the mining and quarrying of stones, which provided basic construction materials for the buildings of that period. In manufacturing, production was on a relatively small scale, and generally consisted of workshops and small factories that employed at most dozens of workers. However, some brick factories employed hundreds of workers.\n\nThe economy of the early Republic was largely based on smallholding and paid labor. However, foreign wars and conquests made slaves increasingly cheap and plentiful, and by the late Republic, the economy was largely dependent on slave labor for both skilled and unskilled work. Slaves are estimated to have constituted around 20% of the Roman Empire's population at this time and 40% in the city of Rome. Only in the Roman Empire, when the conquests stopped and the prices of slaves increased, did hired labor become more economical than slave ownership.\n\nAlthough barter was used in ancient Rome, and often used in tax collection, Rome had a very developed coinage system, with brass, bronze, and precious metal coins in circulation throughout the Empire and beyond—some have even been discovered in India. Before the 3rd century BC, copper was traded by weight, measured in unmarked lumps, across central Italy. The original copper coins (\"as\") had a face value of one Roman pound of copper, but weighed less. Thus, Roman money's utility as a unit of exchange consistently exceeded its intrinsic value as metal. After Nero began debasing the silver denarius, its legal value was an estimated one-third greater than its intrinsic value.\n\nHorses were expensive and other pack animals were slower. Mass trade on the Roman roads connected military posts, where Roman markets were centered. These roads were designed for wheels. As a result, there was transport of commodities between Roman regions, but increased with the rise of Roman maritime trade in the 2nd century BC. During that period, a trading vessel took less than a month to complete a trip from Gades to Alexandria via Ostia, spanning the entire length of the Mediterranean. Transport by sea was around 60 times cheaper than by land, so the volume for such trips was much larger.\n\nSome economists consider the Roman Empire a market economy, similar in its degree of capitalistic practices to 17th century Netherlands and 18th century England.\n\nThe early Roman army (c. 500 BC) was, like those of other contemporary city-states influenced by Greek civilization, a citizen \"militia\" that practiced hoplite tactics. It was small (the population of free men of military age was then about 9,000) and organized in five classes (in parallel to the \"comitia centuriata\", the body of citizens organized politically), with three providing hoplites and two providing light infantry. The early Roman army was tactically limited and its stance during this period was essentially defensive.\n\nBy the 3rd century BC, the Romans abandoned the hoplite formation in favor of a more flexible system in which smaller groups of 120 (or sometimes 60) men called \"maniples\" could maneuver more independently on the battlefield. Thirty maniples arranged in three lines with supporting troops constituted a legion, totalling between 4,000 and 5,000 men.\n\nThe early Republican legion consisted of five sections, each of which was equipped differently and had different places in formation: the three lines of manipular heavy infantry (\"hastati\", \"principes\" and \"triarii)\", a force of light infantry (\"velites\"), and the cavalry (\"equites\"). With the new organization came a new orientation toward the offensive and a much more aggressive posture toward adjoining city-states.\n\nAt nominal full strength, an early Republican legion included 4,000 to 5,000 men: 3,600 to 4,800 heavy infantry, several hundred light infantry, and several hundred cavalrymen. Legions were often significantly understrength from recruitment failures or following periods of active service due to accidents, battle casualties, disease and desertion. During the Civil War, Pompey's legions in the east were at full strength because they were recently recruited, while Caesar's legions were often well below nominal strength after long active service in Gaul. This pattern also held true for auxiliary forces.\n\nUntil the late Republican period, the typical legionary was a property-owning citizen farmer from a rural area (an \"adsiduus\") who served for particular (often annual) campaigns, and who supplied his own equipment and, in the case of \"equites\", his own mount. Harris suggests that down to 200 BC, the average rural farmer (who survived) might participate in six or seven campaigns. Freedmen and slaves (wherever resident) and urban citizens did not serve except in rare emergencies.\n\nAfter 200 BC, economic conditions in rural areas deteriorated as manpower needs increased, so that the property qualifications for service were gradually reduced. Beginning with Gaius Marius in 107 BC, citizens without property and some urban-dwelling citizens (\"proletarii\") were enlisted and provided with equipment, although most legionaries continued to come from rural areas. Terms of service became continuous and long—up to twenty years if emergencies required although six- or seven-year terms were more typical.\n\nBeginning in the 3rd century BC, legionaries were paid \"stipendium\" (amounts are disputed but Caesar famously \"doubled\" payments to his troops to 225 \"denarii\" a year), could anticipate booty and donatives (distributions of plunder by commanders) from successful campaigns and, beginning at the time of Marius, often were granted allotments of land upon retirement. Cavalry and light infantry attached to a legion (the \"auxilia\") were often recruited in the areas where the legion served. Caesar formed a legion, the Fifth Alaudae, from non-citizens in Transalpine Gaul to serve in his campaigns in Gaul. By the time of Caesar Augustus, the ideal of the citizen-soldier had been abandoned and the legions had become fully professional. Legionaries received 900 \"sesterces\" a year and could expect 12,000 \"sesterces\" on retirement.\n\nAt the end of the Civil War, Augustus reorganized Roman military forces, discharging soldiers and disbanding legions. He retained 28 legions, distributed through the provinces of the Empire. During the Principate, the tactical organization of the Army continued to evolve. The \"auxilia\" remained independent cohorts, and legionary troops often operated as groups of cohorts rather than as full legions. A new versatile type of unit  - the \"cohortes equitatae\" – combined cavalry and legionaries in a single formation. They could be stationed at garrisons or outposts and could fight on their own as balanced small forces or combine with other similar units as a larger legion-sized force. This increase in organizational flexibility helped ensure the long-term success of Roman military forces.\n\nThe Emperor Gallienus (253–268 AD) began a reorganization that created the last military structure of the late Empire. Withdrawing some legionaries from the fixed bases on the border, Gallienus created mobile forces (the \"Comitatenses\" or field armies) and stationed them behind and at some distance from the borders as a strategic reserve. The border troops (\"limitanei\") stationed at fixed bases continued to be the first line of defense. The basic unit of the field army was the \"regiment\", \"legiones\" or \"auxilia\" for infantry and \"vexellationes\" for cavalry. Evidence suggests that nominal strengths may have been 1,200 men for infantry regiments and 600 for cavalry, although many records show lower actual troop levels (800 and 400).\n\nMany infantry and cavalry regiments operated in pairs under the command of a \"comes\". In addition to Roman troops, the field armies included regiments of \"barbarians\" recruited from allied tribes and known as \"foederati\". By 400 AD, \"foederati\" regiments had become permanently established units of the Roman army, paid and equipped by the Empire, led by a Roman tribune and used just as Roman units were used. In addition to the \"foederati\", the Empire also used groups of barbarians to fight along with the legions as \"allies\" without integration into the field armies. Under the command of the senior Roman general present, they were led at lower levels by their own officers.\n\nMilitary leadership evolved over the course of the history of Rome. Under the monarchy, the hoplite armies were led by the kings of Rome. During the early and middle Roman Republic, military forces were under the command of one of the two elected consuls for the year. During the later Republic, members of the Roman Senatorial elite, as part of the normal sequence of elected public offices known as the \"cursus honorum\", would have served first as \"quaestor\" (often posted as deputies to field commanders), then as \"praetor\". Julius Caesar's most talented, effective and reliable subordinate in Gaul, Titus Labienus, was recommended to him by Pompey.\nFollowing the end of a term as praetor or consul, a Senator might be appointed by the Senate as a \"propraetor\" or \"proconsul\" (depending on the highest office held before) to govern a foreign province. More junior officers (down to but not including the level of centurion) were selected by their commanders from their own \"clientelae\" or those recommended by political allies among the Senatorial elite.\n\nUnder Augustus, whose most important political priority was to place the military under a permanent and unitary command, the Emperor was the legal commander of each legion but exercised that command through a \"legatus\" (legate) he appointed from the Senatorial elite. In a province with a single legion, the legate commanded the legion (\"legatus legionis\") and also served as provincial governor, while in a province with more than one legion, each legion was commanded by a legate and the legates were commanded by the provincial governor (also a legate but of higher rank).\n\nDuring the later stages of the Imperial period (beginning perhaps with Diocletian), the Augustan model was abandoned. Provincial governors were stripped of military authority, and command of the armies in a group of provinces was given to generals (\"duces\") appointed by the Emperor. These were no longer members of the Roman elite but men who came up through the ranks and had seen much practical soldiering. With increasing frequency, these men attempted (sometimes successfully) to usurp the positions of the Emperors who had appointed them. Decreased resources, increasing political chaos and civil war eventually left the Western Empire vulnerable to attack and takeover by neighboring barbarian peoples.\n\nLess is known about the Roman navy than the Roman army. Prior to the middle of the 3rd century BC, officials known as \"duumviri navales\" commanded a fleet of twenty ships used mainly to control piracy. This fleet was given up in 278 AD and replaced by allied forces. The First Punic War required that Rome build large fleets, and it did so largely with the assistance of and financing from allies. This reliance on allies continued to the end of the Roman Republic. The quinquereme was the main warship on both sides of the Punic Wars and remained the mainstay of Roman naval forces until replaced by the time of Caesar Augustus by lighter and more maneuverable vessels.\n\nAs compared with a trireme, the quinquereme permitted the use of a mix of experienced and inexperienced crewmen (an advantage for a primarily land-based power), and its lesser maneuverability permitted the Romans to adopt and perfect boarding tactics using a troop of about 40 marines in lieu of the ram. Ships were commanded by a \"navarch\", a rank equal to a centurion, who was usually not a citizen. Potter suggests that because the fleet was dominated by non-Romans, the navy was considered non-Roman and allowed to atrophy in times of peace.\n\nInformation suggests that by the time of the late Empire (350 AD), the Roman navy comprised several fleets including warships and merchant vessels for transportation and supply. Warships were oared sailing galleys with three to five banks of oarsmen. Fleet bases included such ports as Ravenna, Arles, Aquilea, Misenum and the mouth of the Somme River in the West and Alexandria and Rhodes in the East. Flotillas of small river craft (\"classes\") were part of the \"limitanei\" (border troops) during this period, based at fortified river harbors along the Rhine and the Danube. That prominent generals commanded both armies and fleets suggests that naval forces were treated as auxiliaries to the army and not as an independent service. The details of command structure and fleet strengths during this period are not well known, although fleets were commanded by prefects.\n\nLife in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome, located on seven hills. The city had a vast number of monumental structures like the Colosseum, the Forum of Trajan and the Pantheon. It had theatres, gymnasiums, marketplaces, functional sewers, bath complexes complete with libraries and shops, and fountains with fresh drinking water supplied by hundreds of miles of aqueducts. Throughout the territory under the control of ancient Rome, residential architecture ranged from modest houses to country villas.\n\nIn the capital city of Rome, there were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill, from which the word \"palace\" derives. The low Plebeian and middle Equestrian classes lived in the city center, packed into apartments, or Insulae, which were almost like modern ghettos. These areas, often built by upper class property owners to rent, were often centred upon collegia or taberna. These people, provided with a free supply of grain, and entertained by gladatorial games, were enrolled as clients of patrons among the upper class Patricians, whose assistance they sought and whose interests they upheld.\n\nThe native language of the Romans was Latin, an Italic language the grammar of which relies little on word order, conveying meaning through a system of affixes attached to word stems. Its alphabet was based on the Etruscan alphabet, which was in turn based on the Greek alphabet. Although surviving Latin literature consists almost entirely of Classical Latin, an artificial and highly stylized and polished literary language from the 1st century BC, the spoken language of the Roman Empire was Vulgar Latin, which significantly differed from Classical Latin in grammar and vocabulary, and eventually in pronunciation.\n\nWhile Latin remained the main written language of the Roman Empire, Greek came to be the language spoken by the well-educated elite, as most of the literature studied by Romans was written in Greek. In the eastern half of the Roman Empire, which later became the Byzantine Empire, Latin was never able to replace Greek, and after the death of Justinian, Greek became the official language of the Byzantine government. The expansion of the Roman Empire spread Latin throughout Europe, and Vulgar Latin evolved into dialects in different locations, gradually shifting into many distinct Romance languages.\n\nArchaic Roman religion, at least concerning the gods, was made up not of written narratives, but rather of complex interrelations between gods and humans. Unlike in Greek mythology, the gods were not personified, but were vaguely defined sacred spirits called \"numina\". Romans also believed that every person, place or thing had its own \"genius\", or divine soul. During the Roman Republic, Roman religion was organized under a strict system of priestly offices, which were held by men of senatorial rank. The College of Pontifices was uppermost body in this hierarchy, and its chief priest, the \"Pontifex Maximus\", was the head of the state religion. Flamens took care of the cults of various gods, while augurs were trusted with taking the auspices. The sacred king took on the religious responsibilities of the deposed kings. In the Roman Empire, emperors were deified, and the formalized imperial cult became increasingly prominent.\n\nAs contact with the Greeks increased, the old Roman gods became increasingly associated with Greek gods. Thus, Jupiter was perceived to be the same deity as Zeus, Mars became associated with Ares, and Neptune with Poseidon. The Roman gods also assumed the attributes and mythologies of these Greek gods. Under the Empire, the Romans absorbed the mythologies of their conquered subjects, often leading to situations in which the temples and priests of traditional Italian deities existed side by side with those of foreign gods.\n\nBeginning with Emperor Nero in the 1st century AD, Roman official policy towards Christianity was negative, and at some points, simply being a Christian could be punishable by death. Under Emperor Diocletian, the persecution of Christians reached its peak. However, it became an officially supported religion in the Roman state under Diocletian's successor, Constantine I, with the signing of the Edict of Milan in 313, and quickly became dominant. All religions except Christianity were prohibited in 391 AD by an edict of Emperor Theodosius I.\n\nRoman painting styles show Greek influences, and surviving examples are primarily frescoes used to adorn the walls and ceilings of country villas, though Roman literature includes mentions of paintings on wood, ivory, and other materials. Several examples of Roman painting have been found at Pompeii, and from these art historians divide the history of Roman painting into four periods. The first style of Roman painting was practiced from the early 2nd century BC to the early- or mid-1st century BC. It was mainly composed of imitations of marble and masonry, though sometimes including depictions of mythological characters.\n\nThe second style of Roman painting began during the early 1st century BC, and attempted to depict realistically three-dimensional architectural features and landscapes. The third style occurred during the reign of Augustus (27 BC – 14 AD), and rejected the realism of the second style in favor of simple ornamentation. A small architectural scene, landscape, or abstract design was placed in the center with a monochrome background. The fourth style, which began in the 1st century AD, depicted scenes from mythology, while retaining architectural details and abstract patterns.\n\nPortrait sculpture during the period utilized youthful and classical proportions, evolving later into a mixture of realism and idealism. During the Antonine and Severan periods, ornate hair and bearding, with deep cutting and drilling, became popular. Advancements were also made in relief sculptures, usually depicting Roman victories.\n\nLatin literature was, from its start, influenced heavily by Greek authors. Some of the earliest extant works are of historical epics telling the early military history of Rome. As the Republic expanded, authors began to produce poetry, comedy, history, and tragedy.\n\nRoman music was largely based on Greek music, and played an important part in many aspects of Roman life. In the Roman military, musical instruments such as the \"tuba\" (a long trumpet) or the \"cornu\" (similar to a French horn) were used to give various commands, while the \"bucina\" (possibly a trumpet or horn) and the \"lituus\" (probably an elongated J-shaped instrument), were used in ceremonial capacities. Music was used in the amphitheaters between fights and in the \"odea\", and in these settings is known to have featured the \"cornu\" and the \"hydraulis\" (a type of water organ).\n\nMost religious rituals featured musical performances, with \"tibiae\" (double pipes) at sacrifices, cymbals and Tambourines at orgiastic cults, and rattles and hymns across the spectrum. Some music historians believe that music was used at almost all public ceremonies. Music historians are not certain if Roman musicians made a significant contribution to the theory or practice of music.\n\nThe graffiti, brothels, paintings, and sculptures found in Pompeii and Herculaneum suggest that the Romans had a sex-saturated culture.\n\nAncient Roman cuisine changed over the long duration of this ancient civilization. Dietary habits were affected by the influence of Greek culture, the political changes from kingdom to republic to empire, and empire's enormous expansion, which exposed Romans to many new, provincial culinary habits and cooking techniques. In the beginning the differences between social classes were relatively small, but disparities evolved with the empire's growth. Men and women drank wine with their meals, a tradition that has been carried through to the present day.\n\nThe youth of Rome had several forms of athletic play and exercise, such as jumping, wrestling, boxing, and racing. In the countryside, pastimes for the wealthy also included fishing and hunting. The Romans also had several forms of ball playing, including one resembling handball. Dice games, board games, and gamble games were popular pastimes. Women did not take part in these activities. For the wealthy, dinner parties presented an opportunity for entertainment, sometimes featuring music, dancing, and poetry readings. Plebeians sometimes enjoyed similar parties through clubs or associations, but for most Romans, recreational dining usually meant patronizing taverns. Children entertained themselves with toys and such games as leapfrog.\n\nPublic games were sponsored by leading Romans who wished to advertise their generosity and court popular approval; in the Imperial era, this usually meant the emperor. Several venues were developed specifically for public games. The Colisseum was built in the Imperial era to host, among other events, gladiatorial combats. These combats had begun as funeral games around the 4th century BC, and became popular spectator events in the late Republic and Empire. Gladiators had an exotic and inventive variety of arms and armour. They sometimes fought to the death, but more often to an adjudicated victory, dependent on a referee's decision. The outcome was usually in keeping with the mood of the watching crowd. Shows of exotic animals were popular in their own right; but sometimes animals were pitted against human beings, either armed professionals or unarmed criminals who had been condemned to a spectacular and theatrical public death in the arena. Some of these encounters were based on episodes from Roman or Greek mythology.\n\nChariot racing was extremely popular among all classes. In Rome, these races were usually held at the Circus Maximus, which had been purpose-built for chariot and horse-racing and, as Rome's largest public place, was also used for festivals and animal shows. It could seat around 150,000 people; The charioteers raced in teams, identified by their colours. The track was divided lengthwise by a barrier that contained obelisks, temples, statues and lap-counters. The best seats were at the track-side, close to the action; they were reserved for Senators. Behind them sat the equites (knights), and behind the knights were the plebs (commoners) and non-citizens. The donor of the games sat on a high platform in the stands alongside images of the gods, visible to all. Large sums were bet on the outcomes of races. Some Romans offered prayers and sacrifices on behalf of their favourites, or laid curses on the opposing teams, and some aficionados were members of extremely, even violently partisan circus factions.\n\nLike many ancient cultures, concepts of ethics and morality, while sharing some commonalities with modern society, differed greatly in several important ways. Because ancient civilizations like Rome were under constant threat of attack from marauding tribes, their culture was necessarily militaristic with martial skills being a prized attribute. Whereas modern societies consider compassion a virtue, Roman society considered compassion a vice, a moral defect. Indeed, one of the primary purposes of the gladiatorial games was to inoculate Roman citizens from this weakness. Romans instead prized virtues such as courage and conviction (\"virtus\"), a sense of duty to one's people, moderation and avoiding excess (\"moderatio\"), forgiveness and understanding (\"clementia\"), fairness (\"severitas\"), and loyalty (\"pietas\").\n\nContrary to popular descriptions, Roman society had well-established and restrictive norms related to sexuality, though as with many societies, the lion's share of the responsibilities fell on women. Women were generally expected to be monogamous having only a single husband during their life (\"univira\"), though this was much less regarded by the elite, especially under the empire. Women were expected to be modest in public avoiding any provocative appearance and to demonstrate absolute fidelity to their husbands (\"pudicitia\"). Indeed, wearing a veil was a common expectation to preserve modesty. Sex outside of marriage was generally frowned upon for men and women and indeed was made illegal during the imperial period. Nevertheless, prostitution was seen entirely differently and indeed was an accepted and regulated practice.\n\nAncient Rome boasted impressive technological feats, using many advancements that were lost in the Middle Ages and not rivaled again until the 19th and 20th centuries. An example of this is insulated glazing, which was not invented again until the 1930s. Many practical Roman innovations were adopted from earlier Greek designs. Advancements were often divided and based on craft. Artisans guarded technologies as trade secrets.\n\nRoman civil engineering and military engineering constituted a large part of Rome's technological superiority and legacy, and contributed to the construction of hundreds of roads, bridges, aqueducts, baths, theaters and arenas. Many monuments, such as the Colosseum, Pont du Gard, and Pantheon, remain as testaments to Roman engineering and culture.\n\nThe Romans were renowned for their architecture, which is grouped with Greek traditions into \"Classical architecture\". Although there were many differences from Greek architecture, Rome borrowed heavily from Greece in adhering to strict, formulaic building designs and proportions. Aside from two new orders of columns, composite and Tuscan, and from the dome, which was derived from the Etruscan arch, Rome had relatively few architectural innovations until the end of the Republic.\nIn the 1st century BC, Romans started to use concrete widely. Concrete was invented in the late 3rd century BC. It was a powerful cement derived from pozzolana, and soon supplanted marble as the chief Roman building material and allowed many daring architectural forms. Also in the 1st century BC, Vitruvius wrote \"De architectura\", possibly the first complete treatise on architecture in history. In the late 1st century BC, Rome also began to use glassblowing soon after its invention in Syria about 50 BC. Mosaics took the Empire by storm after samples were retrieved during Lucius Cornelius Sulla's campaigns in Greece.\n\nWith solid foundations and good drainage, Roman roads were known for their durability and many segments of the Roman road system were still in use a thousand years after the fall of Rome. The construction of a vast and efficient travel network throughout the Empire dramatically increased Rome's power and influence. They allowed Roman legions to be deployed rapidly, with predictable marching times between key points of the empire, no matter the season. These highways also had enormous economic significance, solidifying Rome's role as a trading crossroads—the origin of the saying \"all roads lead to Rome\". The Roman government maintained a system of way stations, known as the cursus publicus, that provided refreshments to couriers at regular intervals along the roads and established a system of horse relays allowing a dispatch to travel up to a day.\n\nThe Romans constructed numerous aqueducts to supply water to cities and industrial sites and to aid in their agriculture. By the third century, the city of Rome was supplied by 11 aqueducts with a combined length of . Most aqueducts were constructed below the surface, with only small portions above ground supported by arches. Sometimes, where valleys deeper than had to be crossed, inverted siphons were used to convey water across a valley.\n\nThe Romans also made major advancements in sanitation. Romans were particularly famous for their public baths, called \"thermae\", which were used for both hygienic and social purposes. Many Roman houses came to have flush toilets and indoor plumbing, and a complex sewer system, the \"Cloaca Maxima\", was used to drain the local marshes and carry waste into the Tiber river.\n\nSome historians have speculated that lead pipes in the sewer and plumbing systems led to widespread lead poisoning, which contributed to the decline in birth rate and general decay of Roman society leading up to the fall of Rome. However, lead content would have been minimized because the flow of water from aqueducts could not be shut off; it ran continuously through public and private outlets into the drains, and only a few taps were in use. Other authors have raised similar objections to this theory, also pointing out that Roman water pipes were thickly coated with deposits that would have prevented lead from leaching into the water.\n\nAncient Rome is the progenitor of Western civilization. The customs, religion, law, technology, architecture, political system, military, literature, languages, alphabet, government and many factors and aspects of western civilization are all inherited from Roman advancements. The rediscovery of Roman culture revitalized Western civilization, playing a role in the Renaissance and the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nAlthough there has been a diversity of works on ancient Roman history, many of them are lost. As a result of this loss, there are gaps in Roman history, which are filled by unreliable works, such as the \"Historia Augusta\" and other books from obscure authors. However, there remains a number of reliable accounts of Roman history.\n\nThe first historians used their works for the lauding of Roman culture and customs. By the end of Republic, some historians distorted their histories to flatter their patrons—especially at the time of Marius's and Sulla's clash. Caesar wrote his own histories to make a complete account of his military campaigns in Gaul and during the Civil War.\n\nIn the Empire, the biographies of famous men and early emperors flourished, examples being \"The Twelve Caesars\" of Suetonius, and Plutarch's \"Parallel Lives\". Other major works of Imperial times were that of Livy and Tacitus.\n\nInterest in studying, and even idealizing, ancient Rome became prevalent during the Italian Renaissance, and continues until the present day. Charles Montesquieu wrote a work \"Reflections on the Causes of the Grandeur and Declension of the Romans\". The first major work was \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" by Edward Gibbon, which encompassed the Roman civilization from the end of the 2nd century to the fall of the Byzantine Empire in 1453. Like Montesquieu, Gibbon paid tribute to the virtue of Roman citizens. Barthold Georg Niebuhr was a founder of the examination of ancient Roman history and wrote \"The Roman History\", tracing the period until the First Punic war. Niebuhr tried to determine the way the Roman tradition evolved. According to him, Romans, like other people, had an historical ethos preserved mainly in the noble families.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic period a work titled \"The History of Romans\" by Victor Duruy appeared. It highlighted the Caesarean period popular at the time. \"History of Rome\", \"Roman constitutional law\" and \"Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum\", all by Theodor Mommsen, became very important milestones. Later the work \"Greatness and Decline of Rome\" by Guglielmo Ferrero was published. The Russian work \"Очерки по истории римского землевладения, преимущественно в эпоху Империи\" (\"The Outlines on Roman Landownership History, Mainly During the Empire\") by Ivan Grevs contained information on the economy of Pomponius Atticus, one of the largest landowners at the end of the Republic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36702", "title": "Animated cartoon", "text": "Animated cartoon\n\nAn animated cartoon is a film for the cinema, television or computer screen, which is made using sequential drawings, as opposed to animation in general, which include films made using clay, puppets, 3D modeling and other means. Animated cartoons are still created for entertainment, commercial, educational and personal purposes.\n\nEarly examples of attempts to capture the phenomenon of motion into a still drawing can be found in paleolithic cave paintings, where animals are often depicted with multiple legs in superimposed positions, clearly attempting to convey the perception of motion.\n\nA 5,200-year old pottery bowl discovered in Shahr-e Sukhteh, Iran, has five sequential images painted around it that seem to show phases of a goat leaping up to nip at a tree.\n\nThe phenakistoscope (1832), zoetrope (1834) and praxinoscope (1877), as well as the common flip book, were early animation devices to produce movement from sequential drawings using technological means, but did not develop further until the advent of motion picture film.\n\nThe first animated projection (screening) was created in France, by Charles-Émile Reynaud, who was a French science teacher. Reynaud created the Praxinoscope in 1877 and the Théâtre Optique in December 1888. On 28 October 1892, he projected the first animation in public, \"Pauvre Pierrot\", at the Musée Grévin in Paris. This film is also notable as the first known instance of film perforations being used. His films were not photographed, but drawn directly onto the transparent strip. In 1900, more than 500,000 people had attended these screenings.\n\nThe first (photographed) animated projection was \"Humorous Phases of Funny Faces\" (1906) by newspaper cartoonist J. Stuart Blackton, one of the co-founders of the Vitagraph Company arrived. In the film, a cartoonist's line drawings of two faces were 'animated' (or came to life) on a blackboard. The two faces smiled and winked, and the cigar-smoking man blew smoke in the lady's face; also, a circus clown led a small dog to jump through a hoop.\n\nThe first animated projection in the traditional sense (i.e., on motion picture film) was \"Fantasmagorie\" by the French director Émile Cohl in 1908. This was followed by two more films, \"Le Cauchemar du fantoche\" [\"The Puppet's Nightmare,\", now lost] and \"Un Drame chez les fantoches\" [\"A Puppet Drama,\" called \"The Love Affair in Toyland\" for American release and \"Mystical Love-Making\" for British release], all completed in 1908.\n\nOne of the very first successful animated cartoons was \"Gertie the Dinosaur\" (1914) by Winsor McCay. It is considered the first example of true character animation. At first, animated cartoons were black-and-white and silent. Felix the Cat and Oswald the Lucky Rabbit are notable examples.\n\nFrom the 1920s to 1960s, theatrical cartoons were produced in huge numbers, and usually shown before a feature film in a movie theater. Disney (distributed by Pat Powers, then Columbia, then United Artists, then RKO, then independently), Fleischer (distributed by Paramount), Warner Bros., MGM, and UPA (distributed by Columbia) were the largest studios producing these 5- to 10-minute \"shorts.\" Other studios included Walter Lantz (distributed by Universal), DePatie-Freleng (distributed by United Artists), Van Beuren Studios (distributed by RKO Pictures), ComiColor Cartoons (distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer), Charles Mintz Studios (later Screen Gems) (distributed by Columbia), Famous Studios (distributed by Paramount), and Terrytoons (distributed by 20th Century Fox).\n\nThe first cartoon to use a soundtrack was in 1926 with Max Fleischer's \"My Old Kentucky Home.\" However the Fleischers used a De Forest sound system and the sound was not completely synchronized with the film. Walt Disney's 1928 cartoon \"Steamboat Willie\" starring Mickey Mouse was the first to use a click track during the recording session, which produced better synchronism. \"Mickey Mousing\" became a term for any movie action (animated or live action) that was perfectly synchronized with music. The music used is original most of the time, but musical quotation is often employed. Animated characters usually performed the action in \"loops,\" i.e., drawings were repeated over and over.\n\nAlthough other producers had made films earlier using 2-strip color, Disney produced the first cartoon in 3-strip Technicolor, \"Flowers and Trees,\" in 1932. Technicians at the Fleischer studio invented rotoscoping, in which animators trace live action in order to make animation look more realistic. However, rotoscoping made the animation look stiff and the technique was later used more for studying human and animal movement, rather than directly tracing and copying filmed movements.\nLater, other movie technologies were adapted for use in animation, such as multiplane cameras with \"The Old Mill\" (1937), stereophonic sound in \"Fantasia\" (1940), widescreen processes with the feature-length \"Lady and the Tramp\" (1955), and even 3D with \"Lumber Jack-Rabbit\". \n\nToday, traditional animation uses traditional methods, but is aided by computers in certain areas. This gives the animator new tools not available that could not be achieved using old techniques.\n\nIn 1917, Italian-Argentine cartoonist Quirino Cristiani created the first animated feature ever made, \"El Apóstol\", utilizing cutout animation; however, a fire that destroyed producer Federico Valle's film studio incinerated the only known copy of the film, and it is now considered lost.\n\nIn 1937, Disney created the first sound and color animated feature film, \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\".\n\nThe name \"animated cartoon\" is generally not used when referring to full-length animated productions, since the term more or less implies a \"short.\" Huge numbers of animated feature films were, and are still, produced.\n\nCompetition from television drew audiences away from movie theaters in the late 1950s, and the theatrical cartoon began its decline. Today, animated cartoons for American audiences are produced mostly for television.\n\nAmerican television animation of the 1950s featured quite limited animation styles, highlighted by the work of Jay Ward on \"Crusader Rabbit\". Chuck Jones coined the term \"illustrated radio\" to refer to the shoddy style of most television cartoons that depended more on their soundtracks than visuals. Other notable 1950s programs include UPA's \"Gerald McBoing Boing\", Hanna-Barbera's \"Huckleberry Hound\" and \"Quick Draw McGraw\", and rebroadcast of many classic theatrical cartoons from Universal's Walter Lantz, Warner Bros., MGM, and Disney.\n\nThe Hanna-Barbera cartoon, \"The Flintstones\", was the first successful primetime animated series in the United States, running from 1960 to 1966 (and in reruns since). While many networks followed the show's success by scheduling other cartoons in the early 1960s, including \"Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!\", \"The Jetsons\", \"Top Cat\", and \"The Alvin Show\", none of these programs survived more than a year (save Scooby-Doo, which, despite not being a primetime cartoon, has managed to stay afloat for over four decades). However, networks found success by running these shows as Saturday morning cartoons, reaching smaller audiences with more demographic unity among children. Television animation for children flourished on Saturday morning, on cable channels like Nickelodeon, Disney Channel/Disney XD and Cartoon Network, PBS Kids, and in syndicated afternoon timeslots.\n\nThe scheduling constraints of the TV animation process, notably issues of resource management, led to the development of various techniques known now as limited animation. Full-frame animation (\"on ones\") became rare in its use outside of theatrical productions in the United States.\n\nPrimetime cartoons for mature audiences were virtually non-existent in the mainstream of the United States until the 1990s hit, when \"The Simpsons\" ushered in a new era of adult animation. Now, \"adult animation\" programs, such as, \"Beavis and Butt-head\", \"South Park\", \"King of the Hill\", \"Family Guy\", \"American Dad!\" and \"Futurama\" have increased the number of animated sitcoms on prime-time and evening American television. In addition, animated works from other countries (notably Japan) have had varying levels of airplay in the United States since the 1960s.\n\nAnimation has been very popular in television commercials, both due to its graphic appeal, and the humour it can provide. Some animated characters in commercials have survived for decades, such as Snap, Crackle and Pop in advertisements for Kellogg's cereals.\n\nThe legendary animation director Tex Avery was the producer of the first Raid \"Kills Bugs Dead\" commercials in 1966, which were very successful for the company. The concept has been used in many countries since.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2106", "title": "Ansible", "text": "Ansible\n\nAn ansible is a category of fictional device or technology capable of instantaneous or faster-than-light communication. It can send and receive messages to and from a corresponding device over any distance or obstacle whatsoever with no delay.\n\nAs a name for such a device, the word \"ansible\" first appeared in a 1966 novel by Ursula K. Le Guin. Since that time, the term has been broadly used in the works of numerous science fiction authors, across a variety of settings and continuities.\n\nUrsula K. Le Guin coined the word \"ansible\" in her 1966 novel \"Rocannon's World\". The word was a contraction of \"answerable\", as the device would allow its users to receive answers to their messages in a reasonable amount of time, even over interstellar distances.\n\nAlthough Le Guin invented the name \"ansible\" for this type of device, fleshed out with specific details in her fictional works, the broader concept of instantaneous or faster-than-light communication had previously existed in science fiction. For example, similar communication functions were included in a device called an interocitor in the 1952 novel \"This Island Earth\" by Raymond F. Jones, and the 1955 film based on that novel.\n\nIn her subsequent works, Le Guin continued to develop the concept of the ansible:\n\n\n\n\nAny ansible may be used to communicate through any other, by setting its coordinates to those of the receiving ansible. They have a limited bandwidth which only allows for at most a few hundred characters of text to be communicated in any transaction of a dialog session, and are attached to a keyboard and small display to perform text messaging.\n\nSince Le Guin's conception of the ansible, the name of the device has been borrowed by numerous authors. While Le Guin's ansible was said to communicate \"instantaneously\", the name has also been adopted for devices capable of communication at finite speeds that are faster than light.\n\nOrson Scott Card, in his 1977 novelette and 1985 novel \"Ender's Game\" and its sequels, used the term \"ansible\" for his own fictitious communication device. In \"Ender's Game\", a character stated that \"somebody dredged the name \"ansible\" out of an old book somewhere.\"\n\nIn the universe of the \"Ender's Game\" series, the ansible's functions involved a fictional subatomic particle, the philote. The two quarks inside a pi meson can be separated by an arbitrary distance, while remaining connected by \"philotic rays\". This concept is similar to quantum teleportation due to entanglement; however, in reality, quark confinement prevents quarks from being separated by any observable distance.\n\nCard's version of the ansible was also featured in the video game \"Advent Rising\", for which Card helped write the story, and in the movie \"Ender's Game\", which was based on the book.\n\nNumerous other writers have included ansibles in their fictional works, using that word to refer to a faster-than-light communication device. Notable examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2996055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2996055", "title": "Anti-nuclear movement", "text": "Anti-nuclear movement\n\nThe anti-nuclear movement is a social movement that opposes various nuclear technologies. Some direct action groups, environmental movements, and professional organisations have identified themselves with the movement at the local, national, or international level. Major anti-nuclear groups include Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, Peace Action and the Nuclear Information and Resource Service. The initial objective of the movement was nuclear disarmament, though since the late 1960s opposition has included the use of nuclear power. Many anti-nuclear groups oppose both nuclear power and nuclear weapons. The formation of green parties in the 1970s and 1980s was often a direct result of anti-nuclear politics.\n\nScientists and diplomats have debated nuclear weapons policy since before the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. The public became concerned about nuclear weapons testing from about 1954, following extensive nuclear testing in the Pacific. In 1963, many countries ratified the Partial Test Ban Treaty which prohibited atmospheric nuclear testing.\n\nSome local opposition to nuclear power emerged in the early 1960s, and in the late 1960s some members of the scientific community began to express their concerns. In the early 1970s, there were large protests about a proposed nuclear power plant in Wyhl, West Germany. The project was cancelled in 1975 and anti-nuclear success at Wyhl inspired opposition to nuclear power in other parts of Europe and North America. Nuclear power became an issue of major public protest in the 1970s and while opposition to nuclear power continues, increasing public support for nuclear power has re-emerged over the last decade in light of growing awareness of global warming and renewed interest in all types of clean energy (see the Pro-nuclear movement).\n\nA protest against nuclear power occurred in July 1977 in Bilbao, Spain, with up to 200,000 people in attendance. Following the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, an anti-nuclear protest was held in New York City, involving 200,000 people. In 1981, Germany's largest anti-nuclear power demonstration took place to protest against the Brokdorf Nuclear Power Plant west of Hamburg; some 100,000 people came face to face with 10,000 police officers. The largest protest was held on June 12, 1982, when one million people demonstrated in New York City against nuclear weapons. A 1983 nuclear weapons protest in West Berlin had about 600,000 participants. In May 1986, following the Chernobyl disaster, an estimated 150,000 to 200,000 people marched in Rome to protest against the Italian nuclear program. In the US, public opposition preceded the shutdown of the Shoreham, Yankee Rowe, Millstone 1, Rancho Seco, Maine Yankee, and many other nuclear power plants.\n\nFor many years after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster nuclear power was off the policy agenda in most countries, and the anti-nuclear power movement seemed to have won its case. Some anti-nuclear groups disbanded. In the 2000s (decade), however, following public relations activities by the nuclear industry, advances in nuclear reactor designs, and concerns about climate change, nuclear power issues came back into energy policy discussions in some countries. The 2011 Japanese nuclear accidents subsequently undermined the nuclear power industry's proposed renaissance and revived nuclear opposition worldwide, putting governments on the defensive. As of 2016, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Norway have no nuclear power stations and remain opposed to nuclear power. Germany, Italy, Spain,and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear powerSweden formerly had a nuclear phase-out policy, aiming to end nuclear power generation in Sweden by 2010. On 5 February 2009, the Government of Sweden announced an agreement allowing for the replacement of existing reactors, effectively ending the phase-out policy.\nGlobally, more nuclear power reactors have closed than opened in recent years.\n\nThe application of nuclear technology, as a source of energy and as an instrument of war, has been controversial. These issues are discussed in nuclear weapons debate, nuclear power debate, and uranium mining debate.\n\nScientists and diplomats have debated nuclear weapons policy since before the Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. The public became concerned about nuclear weapons testing from about 1954, following extensive nuclear testing in the Pacific. In 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. In 1963, many countries ratified the Partial Test Ban Treaty which prohibited atmospheric nuclear testing.\n\nSome local opposition to nuclear power emerged in the early 1960s, and in the late 1960s some members of the scientific community began to express their concerns. In the early 1970s, there were large protests about a proposed nuclear power plant in Wyhl, Germany. The project was cancelled in 1975 and anti-nuclear success at Wyhl inspired opposition to nuclear power in other parts of Europe and North America. Nuclear power became an issue of major public protest in the 1970s.\n\nFrom an anti-nuclear point of view, there is a threat to modern civilization from global nuclear war by accidental or deliberate nuclear strike. Some climate scientists estimate that a war between two countries that resulted in 100 Hiroshima-size atomic explosions would cause significant loss of life, in the tens of millions from climatic effects alone and disabled future generation\n. Soot thrown up into the atmosphere could blanket the earth, causing food chain disruption in what is termed a nuclear winter.\n\nMany anti-nuclear weapons groups cite the 1996 Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice, \"Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons\", in which it found that 'the threat or use of nuclear weapons would generally be contrary to the rules of international law applicable in armed conflict'.\n\nRidding the world of nuclear weapons has been a cause for pacifists for decades. But more recently mainstream politicians and retired military leaders have advocated nuclear disarmament. In January 2007 an article in \"The Wall Street Journal\", authored by Henry Kissinger, Bill Perry, George Shultz and Sam Nunn. These men were veterans of the cold-war who believed in using nuclear weapons for deterrence. But they now reversed their previous position and asserted that instead of making the world safer, nuclear weapons had become a source of extreme concern.\n\nSince the 1970s, some countries have built their own second-strike capability of massive deterrence in the event of a military attack with weapons of mass destruction. \nTwo examples of this second-strike capability are the Samson Option strategy of Israel, and the Dead Hand system of Russia.\nDuring the era of nuclear weapons testing many local communities were affected, and some are still affected by uranium mining, and radioactive waste disposal.\n\nThere are large variations in peoples’ understanding of the issues surrounding nuclear power, including the technology itself, its deployment, climate change, and energy security. There is a wide spectrum of views and concerns over nuclear power and it remains a controversial area of public policy.\n\nMany studies have shown that the public \"perceives nuclear power as a very risky technology\" and, around the world, nuclear energy has declined in popularity since the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster. Anti-nuclear critics see nuclear power as a dangerous, expensive way to boil water to generate electricity. Opponents of nuclear power have raised a number of related concerns:\n\nOf these concerns, nuclear accidents and disposal of long-lived radioactive waste have probably had the greatest public impact worldwide. Anti-nuclear campaigners point to the 2011 Fukushima nuclear emergency as proof that nuclear power can never be 100% safe.\n\nIn his book \"Global Fission: The Battle Over Nuclear Power\", Jim Falk explores connections between technological concerns and political concerns. Falk suggests that concerns of citizen groups or individuals who oppose nuclear power have often focused initially on the \"range of physical hazards which accompany the technology\" and leads to a \"concern over the political relations of the nuclear industry\" A more neutral observer might observe that this is nothing more than a conspiracy theory. Baruch Fischhoff, a social science professor said that many people really do not trust the nuclear industry. Wade Allison, a physics professor actually says \"radiation is safe & all nations should embrace nuclear technology\"\n\nM.V. Ramana says that \"distrust of the social institutions that manage nuclear energy is widespread\", and a 2001 survey by the European Commission found that \"only 10.1 percent of Europeans trusted the nuclear industry\". This public distrust is periodically reinforced by nuclear safety violations, or through ineffectiveness or corruption of the nuclear regulatory authorities. Once lost, says Ramana, trust is extremely difficult to regain.\n\nFaced with public antipathy, the nuclear industry has \"tried a variety of strategies to persuade the public to accept nuclear power\", including the publication of numerous \"fact sheets\" that discuss issues of public concern. M.V. Ramana says that none of these strategies have been very successful. Nuclear proponents have tried to regain public support by offering newer, safer, reactor designs. These designs include those that incorporate passive safety and Small Modular Reactors. While these reactor designs \"are intended to inspire trust, they may have an unintended effect: creating distrust of older reactors that lack the touted safety features\".\n\nSince 2000 the nuclear industry has undertaken an international media and lobbying campaign to promote nuclear power as a solution to the greenhouse effect and climate change. Nuclear power, the industry says, emits no or negligible amounts of carbon dioxide. Anti-nuclear groups respond by saying that only reactor operation is free of carbon dioxide emissions. All other stages of the nuclear fuel chain – mining, milling, transport, fuel fabrication, enrichment, reactor construction, decommissioning and waste management – use fossil fuels and hence emit carbon dioxide.\n\nIn 2011, a French court fined Électricité de France (EDF) €1.5m and jailed two senior employees for spying on Greenpeace, including hacking into Greenpeace's computer systems. Greenpeace was awarded €500,000 in damages.\n\nThere is a wide range of published energy-related studies which conclude that energy efficiency programs and renewable power technologies are a better energy option than nuclear power plants. This diverse range of studies come from many different sources, across the political spectrum, and from various academic disciplines, which suggests that there is a consensus among many independent, non-partisan energy experts that nuclear power plants are a poor way to produce electrical power.\n\nThe international nuclear fusion project International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) is constructing the world's largest and most advanced experimental tokamak nuclear fusion reactor in the south of France. A collaboration between the European Union (EU), India, Japan, China, Russia, South Korea and the United States, the project aims to make a transition from experimental studies of plasma physics to electricity-producing fusion power plants. In 2005, Greenpeace International issued a press statement criticizing government funding of the ITER, believing the money should have been diverted to renewable energy sources and claiming that fusion energy would result in nuclear waste and nuclear weapons proliferation issues. A French association including about 700 anti-nuclear groups, Sortir du nucléaire (Get Out of Nuclear Energy), claimed that ITER was a hazard because scientists did not yet know how to manipulate the high-energy deuterium and tritium hydrogen isotopes used in the fusion process. According to most anti-nuclear groups, nuclear fusion power “remains a distant dream”. The World Nuclear Association have said that fusion \"presents so far insurmountable scientific and engineering challenges\". Construction of the ITER facility began in 2007, but the project has run into many delays and budget overruns. Several milestones of the project has already been finished, but the finishing date for First Plasma has been discussed and postponed many times with various conclusions. In late 2016, the ITER council agreed on an updated project schedule, with a planned First Plasma opening by 2025, nine years after the originally anticipated opening.\n\nSome anti-nuclear groups advocate reduced reliance on reactor-produced medical radioisotopes, through the use of alternative radioisotope production and alternative clinical technologies. Cyclotrons are being increasingly used to produce medical radioisotopes to the point where nuclear reactors are no longer needed to make the most common medical isotopes.\n\nAnti-nuclear groups say that reliance on nuclear energy can be reduced by adopting energy conservation and energy efficiency measures. Energy efficiency can reduce energy consumption while providing the same level of energy \"services\".\nRenewable energy flows involve natural phenomena such as sunlight, wind, tides, plant growth, and geothermal heat, as the International Energy Agency explains:\nAnti-nuclear groups also favour the use of renewable energy, such as hydro, wind power, solar power, geothermal energy and biofuel. According to the International Energy Agency renewable energy technologies are essential contributors to the energy supply portfolio, as they contribute to world energy security and provide opportunities for mitigating greenhouse gases. Fossil fuels are being replaced by clean, climate-stabilizing, non-depletable sources of energy. According to Lester R. Brown:\n\n...the transition from coal, oil, and gas to wind, solar, and geothermal energy is well under way. In the old economy, energy was produced by burning something — oil, coal, or natural gas — leading to the carbon emissions that have come to define our economy. The new energy economy harnesses the energy in wind, the energy coming from the sun, and heat from within the earth itself.\nIn 2014 global wind power capacity expanded 16% to 369,553 MW. Yearly wind energy production is also growing rapidly and has reached around 4% of worldwide electricity usage, 11.4% in the EU, and it is widely used in Asia, and the United States. In 2014, worldwide installed photovoltaics capacity increased to 177 gigawatts (GW), sufficient to supply 1 percent of global electricity demands. Solar thermal energy stations operate in the United States and Spain, and as of 2016, the largest of these is the 392 MW Ivanpah Solar Electric Generating System in California. The world's largest geothermal power installation is The Geysers in California, with a rated capacity of 750 MW. Brazil has one of the largest renewable energy programs in the world, involving production of ethanol fuel from sugar cane, and ethanol now provides 18% of the country's automotive fuel. Ethanol fuel is also widely available in the United States.\n\nGreenpeace advocates a reduction of fossil fuels by 50% by 2050 as well as phasing out nuclear power, contending that innovative technologies can increase energy efficiency, and suggests that by 2050 most electricity will come from renewable sources. The International Energy Agency estimates that nearly 50% of global electricity supplies will need to come from renewable energy sources in order to halve carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 and minimise climate change impacts.\n\nMark Z. Jacobson, a Stanford professor, says producing all new energy with wind power, solar power, and hydropower by 2030 is feasible and existing energy supply arrangements could be replaced by 2050. Barriers to implementing the renewable energy plan are seen to be \"primarily social and political, not technological or economic\". Jacobson says that energy costs with a wind, solar, water system should be similar to today's energy costs. Many has since referred to Jacobson's work to justify advocating for all 100% renewables, however, in February, 2017, a group of twenty-one scientists published a critique of Jacobson's work and found that his analysis involves \"errors, inappropriate methods and implausible assumptions\" and failed to provide \"credible evidence for rejecting the conclusions of previous analyses that point to the benefits of considering a broad portfolio of energy system options.\"\n\nThe anti-nuclear movement is a social movement which operates at the local, national, and international level. Various types of groups have identified themselves with the movement:\n\nAnti-nuclear groups have undertaken public protests and acts of civil disobedience which have included occupations of nuclear plant sites. Other salient strategies have included lobbying, petitioning government authorities, influencing public policy through referendum campaigns and involvement in elections. Anti-nuclear groups have also tried to influence policy implementation through litigation and by participating in licensing proceedings.\n\nAnti-nuclear power organisations have emerged in every country that has had a nuclear power programme. Protest movements against nuclear power first emerged in the United States, at the local level, and spread quickly to Europe and the rest of the world. National nuclear campaigns emerged in the late 1970s. Fuelled by the Three Mile Island accident and the Chernobyl disaster, the anti-nuclear power movement mobilised political and economic forces which for some years \"made nuclear energy untenable in many countries\". In the 1970s and 1980s, the formation of green parties was often a direct result of anti-nuclear politics (e.g., in Germany and Sweden).\n\nSome of these anti-nuclear power organisations are reported to have developed considerable expertise on nuclear power and energy issues. In 1992, the chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said that \"his agency had been pushed in the right direction on safety issues because of the pleas and protests of nuclear watchdog groups\".\n\n\nNational and local anti-nuclear groups are listed at Anti-nuclear groups in the United States and List of anti-nuclear groups.\n\nIn 1971, the town of Wyhl, in Germany, was a proposed site for a nuclear power station. In the years that followed, public opposition steadily mounted, and there were large protests. Television coverage of police dragging away farmers and their wives helped to turn nuclear power into a major issue. In 1975, an administrative court withdrew the construction licence for the plant. The Wyhl experience encouraged the formation of citizen action groups near other planned nuclear sites.\n\nIn 1972, the nuclear disarmament movement maintained a presence in the Pacific, largely in response to French nuclear testing there. New Zealand activists sailed boats into the test zone, interrupting the testing program. In Australia, thousands of people joined protest marches in Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Sydney. Scientists issued statements demanding an end to the nuclear tests. In Fiji, anti-nuclear activists formed an Against Testing on Mururoa organization.\n\nIn the Basque Country (Spain and France), a strong anti-nuclear movement emerged in 1973, which ultimately led to the abandonment of most of the planned nuclear power projects. On July 14, 1977, in Bilbao, between 150,000 and 200,000 people protested against the Lemoniz Nuclear Power Plant. This has been called the \"biggest ever anti-nuclear demonstration\".\n\nIn France, there were mass protests in the early 1970s, organized at nearly every planned nuclear site in France. Between 1975 and 1977, some 175,000 people protested against nuclear power in ten demonstrations. In 1977 there was a massive demonstration at the Superphénix breeder reactor in Creys-Malvillein which culminated in violence.\n\nIn West Germany, between February 1975 and April 1979, some 280,000 people were involved in seven demonstrations at nuclear sites. Several site occupations were also attempted. Following the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, some 120,000 people attended a demonstration against nuclear power in Bonn.\n\nIn the Philippines, there were many protests in the late 1970s and 1980s against the proposed Bataan Nuclear Power Plant, which was built but never operated.\n\nIn 1981, Germany's largest anti-nuclear power demonstration protested against the construction of the Brokdorf Nuclear Power Plant west of Hamburg. Some 100,000 people came face to face with 10,000 police officers.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s, the revival of the nuclear arms race, triggered a new wave of protests about nuclear weapons. Older organizations such as the Federation of Atomic Scientists revived, and newer organizations appeared, including the Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign and Physicians for Social Responsibility. In the UK, on 1 April 1983, about 70,000 people linked arms to form a 14-mile-long human chain between three nuclear weapons centres in Berkshire.\n\nOn Palm Sunday 1982, 100,000 Australians participated in anti-nuclear rallies in the nation's largest cities. Growing year by year, the rallies drew 350,000 participants in 1985.\n\nIn May 1986, following the Chernobyl disaster, clashes between anti-nuclear protesters and West German police were common. More than 400 people were injured in mid-May at a nuclear-waste reprocessing plant being built near Wackersdorf. Also in May 1986, an estimated 150,000 to 200,000 people marched in Rome to protest against the Italian nuclear program, and 50,000 marched in Milan. Hundreds of people walked from Los Angeles to Washington, D.C. in 1986 in what is referred to as the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament. The march took nine months to traverse , advancing approximately fifteen miles per day.\n\nThe anti-nuclear organisation \"Nevada Semipalatinsk\" was formed in 1989 and was one of the first major anti-nuclear groups in the former Soviet Union. It attracted thousands of people to its protests and campaigns which eventually led to the closure of the nuclear test site in north-east Kazakhstan, in 1991.\n\nThe World Uranium Hearing was held in Salzburg, Austria in September 1992. Anti-nuclear speakers from all continents, including indigenous speakers and scientists, testified to the health and environmental problems of uranium mining and processing, nuclear power, nuclear weapons, nuclear tests, and radioactive waste disposal. People who spoke at the 1992 Hearing included: Thomas Banyacya, Katsumi Furitsu, Manuel Pino and Floyd Red Crow Westerman.\n\nThere were many anti-nuclear protests in the United States which captured national public attention during the 1970s and 1980s. These included the well-known Clamshell Alliance protests at Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant and the Abalone Alliance protests at Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant, where thousands of protesters were arrested. Other large protests followed the 1979 Three Mile Island accident.\n\nA large anti-nuclear demonstration was held in May 1979 in Washington D.C., when 65,000 people including the Governor of California, attended a march and rally against nuclear power. In New York City on September 23, 1979, almost 200,000 people attended a protest against nuclear power. Anti-nuclear power protests preceded the shutdown of the Shoreham, Yankee Rowe, Millstone I, Rancho Seco, Maine Yankee, and about a dozen other nuclear power plants.\n\nOn June 12, 1982, one million people demonstrated in New York City's Central Park against nuclear weapons and for an end to the cold war arms race. It was the largest anti-nuclear protest and the largest political demonstration in American history. International Day of Nuclear Disarmament protests were held on June 20, 1983 at 50 sites across the United States.\nIn 1986, hundreds of people walked from Los Angeles to Washington DC in the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament. There were many Nevada Desert Experience protests and peace camps at the Nevada Test Site during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nOn May 1, 2005, 40,000 anti-nuclear/anti-war protesters marched past the United Nations in New York, 60 years after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This was the largest anti-nuclear rally in the U.S. for several decades. In the 2000s there were protests about, and campaigns against, several new nuclear reactor proposals in the United States. In 2013, four aging, uncompetitive, reactors were permanently closed: San Onofre 2 and 3 in California, Crystal River 3 in Florida, and Kewaunee in Wisconsin. Vermont Yankee, in Vernon, is scheduled to close in 2014, following many protests. Protesters in New York State are seeking to close Indian Point Energy Center, in Buchanan, 30 miles from New York City.\n\nFor many years after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster nuclear power was off the policy agenda in most countries, and the anti-nuclear power movement seemed to have won its case. Some anti-nuclear groups disbanded. In the 2000s (decade), however, following public relations activities by the nuclear industry, advances in nuclear reactor designs, and concerns about climate change, nuclear power issues came back into energy policy discussions in some countries. The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster subsequently undermined the nuclear power industry's proposed come back.\n\nIn January 2004, up to 15,000 anti-nuclear protesters marched in Paris against a new generation of nuclear reactors, the European Pressurised Water Reactor (EPWR).\n\nOn May 1, 2005, 40,000 anti-nuclear/anti-war protesters marched past the United Nations in New York, 60 years after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This was the largest anti-nuclear rally in the U.S. for several decades. In Britain, there were many protests about the government's proposal to replace the aging Trident weapons system with a newer model. The largest protest had 100,000 participants and, according to polls, 59 percent of the public opposed the move.\n\n\nOn March 17, 2007 simultaneous protests, organised by \"Sortir du nucléaire\", were staged in five French towns to protest construction of EPR plants; Rennes, Lyon, Toulouse, Lille, and Strasbourg.\n\nIn June 2007, 4,000 local residents, students and anti-nuclear activists took to the streets in the city of Kudzus in Indonesia's Central Java, calling on the Government to abandon plans to build a nuclear power plant there.\n\nIn February 2008, a group of concerned scientists and engineers called for the closure of the Kazantzakis-Kariwa Nuclear Power Plant in Japan.\n\nThe International Conference on Nuclear Disarmament took place in Oslo in February 2008, and was organized by The Government of Norway, the Nuclear Threat Initiative and the Hoover Institute. The Conference was entitled \"Achieving the Vision of a World Free of Nuclear Weapons\" and had the purpose of building consensus between nuclear weapon states and non-nuclear weapon states in relation to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty.\n\nDuring a weekend in October 2008, some 15,000 people disrupted the transport of radioactive nuclear waste from France to a dump in Germany. This was one of the largest such protests in many years and, according to \"Der Spiel\", it signals a revival of the anti-nuclear movement in Germany. In 2009, the coalition of green parties in the European parliament, who are unanimous in their anti-nuclear position, increased their presence in the parliament from 5.5% to 7.1% (52 seats).\n\nIn October 2008 in the United Kingdom, more than 30 people were arrested during one of the largest anti-nuclear protests at the Atomic Weapons Establishment at Aldermaston for 10 years. The demonstration marked the start of the UN World Disarmament Week and involved about 400 people.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009, there have been protests about, and criticism of, several new nuclear reactor proposals in the United States. There have also been some objections to license renewals for existing nuclear plants.\n\nA convoy of 350 farm tractors and 50,000 protesters took part in an anti-nuclear rally in Berlin on September 5, 2009. The marchers demanded that Germany close all nuclear plants by 2020 and close the Gorleben radioactive dump. Gorleben is the focus of the anti-nuclear movement in Germany, which has tried to derail train transports of waste and to destroy or block the approach roads to the site. Two above-ground storage units house 3,500 containers of radioactive sludge and thousands of tonnes of spent fuel rods.\n\n\nOn April 21, 2010, a dozen environmental organizations called on the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission to investigate possible limitations in the AP1000 reactor design. These groups appealed to three federal agencies to suspend the licensing process because they believed containment in the new design is weaker than existing reactors.\n\nOn April 24, 2010, about 120,000 people built a human chain (KETTENreAKTION!) between the nuclear plants at Krümmel and Brunsbüttel. In this way they were demonstrating against the plans of the German government to extend the life of nuclear power reactors.\n\nIn May 2010, some 25,000 people, including members of peace organizations and 1945 atomic bomb survivors, marched for about two kilometers from downtown New York to the United Nations headquarters, calling for the elimination of nuclear weapons. In September 2010, German government policy shifted back toward nuclear energy, and this generated some new anti-nuclear sentiment in Berlin and beyond. On September 18, 2010, tens of thousands of Germans surrounded Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office in an anti-nuclear demonstration that organisers said was the biggest of its kind since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. In October 2010, tens of thousands of people protested in Munich against the nuclear power policy of Angela Merkel's coalition government. The action was the largest anti-nuclear event in Bavaria for more than two decades. In November 2010, there were violent protests against a train carrying reprocessed nuclear waste in Germany. Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in Dannenberg to signal their opposition to the cargo. Around 16,000 police were mobilised to deal with the protests.\n\nIn December 2010, some 10,000 people (mainly fishermen, farmers and their families) turned out to oppose the Jaitapur Nuclear Power Project in the Maharashtra state of India, amid a heavy police presence.\n\nIn December 2010, five anti-nuclear weapons activists, including octogenarians and Jesuit priests, were convicted of conspiracy and trespass in Tacoma, US. They cut fences at Naval Base Kitsap-Bangor in 2009 to protest submarine nuclear weapons, and reached an area near where Trident nuclear warheads are stored in bunkers. Members of the group could face up to 10 years in prison.\n\n\nIn January 2011, five Japanese young people held a hunger strike for more than a week, outside the Prefectural Government offices in Yamaguchi City, to protest against the planned Kaminoseki Nuclear Power Plant near the environmentally sensitive Seto Inland Sea.\n\nFollowing the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, anti-nuclear opposition intensified in Germany. On 12 March 2011, 60,000 Germans formed a 45-km human chain from Stuttgart to the Neckarwestheim power plant. On 14 March, 110,000 people protested in 450 other German towns, with opinion polls indicating 80% of Germans opposed the government's extension of nuclear power. On March 15, 2011, Angela Merkel said that seven nuclear power plants which went online before 1980 would be closed and the time would be used to study speedier renewable energy commercialization.\n\nIn March 2011, around 2,000 anti-nuclear protesters demonstrated in Taiwan for an immediate halt to the construction of the island's fourth nuclear power plant. The protesters were also opposed to plans to extend the lifespan of three existing nuclear plants.\n\nIn March 2011, more than 200,000 people took part in anti-nuclear protests in four large German cities, on the eve of state elections. Organisers called it the largest anti-nuclear demonstration the country has seen. Thousands of Germans demanding an end to the use of nuclear power took part in nationwide demonstrations on 2 April 2011. About 7,000 people took part in anti-nuclear protests in Bremen. About 3,000 people protested outside RWE's headquarters in Essen.\n\nCiting the Fukushima nuclear disaster, environmental activists at a U.N. meeting in April 2011 \"urged bolder steps to tap renewable energy so the world doesn't have to choose between the dangers of nuclear power and the ravages of climate change\".\n\nIn mid-April, 17,000 people protested at two demonstrations in Tokyo against nuclear power.\n\nIn India, environmentalists, local farmers and fishermen have been protesting for months over the planned Jaitapur Nuclear Power Project six-reactor complex, 420 km south of Mumbai. If built, it would be one of the world's largest nuclear power complexes. Protests have escalated following Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster and during two days of violent rallies in April 2011, a local man was killed and dozens were injured.\n\nIn May 2011, some 20,000 people turned out for Switzerland's largest anti-nuclear power demonstration in 25 years. Demonstrators marched peacefully near the Beznau Nuclear Power Plant, the oldest in Switzerland, which started operating 40 years ago. Days after the anti-nuclear rally, Cabinet decided to ban the building of new nuclear power reactors. The country’s five existing reactors would be allowed to continue operating, but \"would not be replaced at the end of their life span\".\n\nIn May 2011, 5,000 people joined a carnival-like anti-nuclear protest in Taipei City. This was part of a nationwide “No Nuke Action” protest, urging the government to stop construction of a Fourth Nuclear Plant and pursue a more sustainable energy policy.\n\nOn World Environment Day in June 2011, environmental groups demonstrated against Taiwan's nuclear power policy. The Taiwan Environmental Protection Union, together with 13 environmental groups and legislators, gathered in Taipei and protested against the nation’s three operating nuclear power plants and the construction of a fourth plant.\n\nThree months after the Fukushima nuclear disaster, thousands of anti-nuclear protesters marched in Japan. Company workers, students, and parents with children rallied across Japan, \"venting their anger at the government's handling of the crisis, carrying flags bearing the words 'No Nukes!' and 'No More Fukushima'.\"\n\nIn August 2011, about 2,500 people including farmers and fishermen marched in Tokyo. They are suffering heavy losses following the Fukushima nuclear disaster, and called for prompt compensation from plant operator TEPCO and the government.\n\nIn September 2011, anti-nuclear protesters, marching to the beat of drums, “took to the streets of Tokyo and other cities to mark six months since the March earthquake and tsunami and vent their anger at the government's handling of the nuclear crisis set off by meltdowns at the Fukushima power plant”. Protesters called for a complete shutdown of Japanese nuclear power plants and demanded a shift in government policy toward alternative sources of energy. Among the protestors were four young men who started a 10-day hunger strike to bring about change in Japan's nuclear policy.\n\nTens of thousands of people marched in central Tokyo in September 2011, chanting \"Sayonara nuclear power\" and waving banners, to call on Japan's government to abandon atomic energy in the wake of the Fukushima nuclear disaster. Author Kenzaburō Ōe and musician Ryuichi Sakamoto were among the event's supporters.\n\nSince the March 2011 Japanese Fukushima nuclear disaster, \"populations around proposed Indian NPP sites have launched protests that are now finding resonance around the country, raising questions about atomic energy as a clean and safe alternative to fossil fuels\". Assurances by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that all safety measures will be implemented, have not been heeded, and there have thus been mass protests against the French-backed 9900 MW Jaitapur Nuclear Power Project in Maharashtra and the 2000 MW Koodankulam Nuclear Power Plant in Tamil Nadu. The state government of West Bengal state has also refused permission to a proposed 6000 MW facility where six Russian reactors were to be built. A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has also been filed against the government’s civil nuclear program at the apex Supreme Court. The PIL specifically asks for the \"staying of all proposed nuclear power plants till satisfactory safety measures and cost-benefit analyses are completed by independent agencies\".\n\nMichael Banach, the current Vatican representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency, told a conference in Vienna in September 2011 that the Japanese nuclear disaster created new concerns about the safety of nuclear plants globally. Auxiliary bishop of Osaka Michael Goro Matsuura said this serious nuclear power incident should be a lesson for Japan and other countries to abandon nuclear projects. He called on the worldwide Christian solidarity to provide wide support for this anti-nuclear campaign. Statements from bishops’ conferences in Korea and the Philippines called on their governments to abandon atomic power. Nobel laureate Kenzaburō Ōe has said Japan should decide quickly to abandon its nuclear reactors.\n\nIn the UK, in October 2011, more than 200 protesters blockaded the Hinkley Point C nuclear power station site. Members of the Stop New Nuclear alliance barred access to the site in protest at EDF Energy's plans to build two new reactors on the site.\n\nIn January 2012, 22 South Korean women's groups appealed for a nuclear free future, saying they believe nuclear weapons and power reactors \"threaten our lives, the lives of our families and all living creatures\". The women said they feel an enormous sense of crisis after the Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011, which demonstrated the destructive power of radiation in the disruption of human lives, environmental pollution, and food contamination.\n\nThousands of demonstrators took to the streets of Yokohama, Japan, on January 14–15, 2012, to show their support for a nuclear power-free world. The demonstration showed that organized opposition to nuclear power has gained momentum following the Fukushima nuclear disaster. The most immediate demand of the demonstrators was for the protection of rights, including basic human rights such as health care, for those affected by the Fukushima accident.\n\nIn January 2012, three hundred anti-nuclear protestors marched against plans to build a new nuclear power station at Wylfa in the UK. The march was organised by Pobl Atal Wylfa B, Greenpeace and Cymdeithas yr Iaith, which are supporting a farmer who is in dispute with Horizon.\n\nOn the anniversary of the 11 March earthquake and tsunami, protesters across Japan called for the abolishment of nuclear power and nuclear reactors. In Koriyama, Fukushima, 16,000 people called for the end of nuclear power. In Shizuoka Prefecture, 1,100 people appealed for the scrapping of the Hamaoka Nuclear Power Plant. In Tsuruga, Fukui, 1,200 people marched in the streets of the city of Tsuruga, the home of the Monju fast-breeder reactor prototype and other nuclear reactors. In Nagasaki and Hiroshima, anti-nuclear protesters and atomic-bomb survivors marched together and demanded that Japan should end its nuclear dependency.\n\nAustrian Chancellor Werner Faymann expects anti-nuclear petition drives to start in at least six European Union countries in 2012 in an effort to have the EU abandon nuclear power. Under the EU's Lisbon Treaty, petitions that attract at least one million signatures can seek legislative proposals from the European Commission, which would pave the way for anti-nuclear activists to garner support.\n\nIn March 2012, about 2,000 people staged an anti-nuclear protest in Taiwan's capital following the massive tsunami that hit Japan one year ago. The protesters rallied in Taipei to renew calls for a nuclear-free island. They \"want the government to scrap a plan to operate a newly constructed nuclear power plant – the fourth in densely populated Taiwan\". Scores of aboriginal protesters \"demanded the removal of 100,000 barrels of nuclear waste stored on their Orchid Island\".\n\nIn March 2012, hundreds of anti-nuclear demonstrators converged on the Australian headquarters of global mining giants BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto. The 500-strong march through southern Melbourne called for an end to uranium mining in Australia, and included speeches and performances by representatives of the expatriate Japanese community as well as Australia's Indigenous communities, who are concerned about the effects of uranium mining near tribal lands. There were also events in Sydney.\n\nIn March 2012, South Korean environmental groups held a rally in Seoul to oppose nuclear power. Over 5,000 people attended, and the turnout was one of the largest in recent memory for an anti-nuclear rally. The demonstration demanded that President Lee Myung Bak abandon his policy of promoting nuclear power.\n\nIn March 2012, police said they had arrested nearly 200 anti-nuclear activists who were protesting the restart of work at the long-stalled Indian Kudankulam nuclear power plant.\n\nIn June 2012, tens of thousands of Japanese protesters participated in anti-nuclear power rallies in Tokyo and Osaka, over the government's decision to restart the first idled reactors since the Fukushima disaster, at Oi Nuclear Power Plant in Fukui Prefecture.\n\n\nThousands of protesters marched in Tokyo on March 11, 2013 calling on the government to reject nuclear power.\n\nIn March 2013, 68,000 Taiwanese protested across major cities against nuclear power and the island’s fourth nuclear plant, which is under construction. Taiwan’s three existing nuclear plants are near the ocean, and prone to geological fractures, under the island.\n\nIn April 2013, thousands of Scottish campaigners, MSPs, and union leaders, rallied against nuclear weapons. The Scrap Trident Coalition wants to see an end to nuclear weapons, and says saved monies should be used for health, education and welfare initiatives. There was also a blockade of the Faslane Naval Base, where Trident missiles are stored.\n\nIn March 2014, around 130,000 Taiwanese marched for an anti-nuclear protest around Taiwan. They demanded that the government remove nuclear power plants in Taiwan. The march came ahead of the 3rd anniversary of Fukushima disaster. Around 50,000 people marched in Taipei while another three separate events were held around other Taiwanese cities attended by around 30,000 people. Among the participants are the organizations from Green Citizen Action's Alliance, Homemakers United Foundation, Taiwan Association for Human Rights and Taiwan Environmental Protection Union. Facing on-going opposition and a host of delays, construction of the Lungmen Nuclear Power Plant was halted in April 2014.\n\nCasualties during anti-nuclear protests include:\n\n\nBeginning in the 1950s, anti-nuclear ideas received coverage in the popular media with novels such as \"Fail-Safe\" and feature films such as \"Godzilla (1954)\",\"\" (1964), \"The China Syndrome\" (1979), \"Silkwood\" (1983), and \"The Rainbow Warrior\" (1992).\n\n\"Dr. Strangelove\" explored \"what might happen within the Pentagon ... if some maniac Air Force general should suddenly order a nuclear attack on the Soviet Union\". One reviewer called the movie \"one of the cleverest and most incisive satiric thrusts at the awkwardness and folly of the military that has ever been on the screen\".\n\n\"The China Syndrome\" has been described as a \"gripping 1979 drama about the dangers of nuclear power\" which had an extra impact when the real-life accident at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant occurred several weeks after the film opened. Jane Fonda plays a TV reporter who witnesses a near-meltdown (the \"China syndrome\" of the title) at a local nuclear plant, which was averted by a quick-thinking engineer, played by Jack Lemmon. The plot suggests that corporate greed and cost-cutting \"have led to potentially deadly faults in the plant's construction\".\n\n\"Silkwood\" was inspired by the true-life story of Karen Silkwood, who died in a suspicious car accident while investigating alleged wrongdoing at the Kerr-McGee plutonium plant where she worked.\n\n\"Dark Circle\" is a 1982 American documentary film that focuses on the connections between the nuclear weapons and the nuclear power industries, with a strong emphasis on the individual human and protracted U.S. environmental costs involved. A clear point made by the film is that while only two bombs were dropped on Japan, many hundreds were exploded in the United States. The film won the Grand Prize for documentary at the Sundance Film Festival and received a national Emmy Award for \"Outstanding individual achievement in news and documentary.\" For the opening scenes and about half of its length, the film focuses on the Rocky Flats Plant and its plutonium contamination of the area's environment.\n\n, (literally \"Humming of Bees and Rotation of the Earth\") is a Japanese documentary directed by Hitomi Kamanaka and released in 2010. It is the third in Kamanaka's trilogy of films on the problems of nuclear power and radiation, preceded by \"Hibakusha at the End of the World\" (also known as \"Radiation: A Slow Death\") and \"Rokkasho Rhapsody\".\n\n\"Nuclear Tipping Point\" is a 2010 documentary film produced by the Nuclear Threat Initiative. It features interviews with four American government officials who were in office during the Cold War period, but are now advocating for the elimination of nuclear weapons. They are: Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, Sam Nunn, and William Perry.\n\nMusicians United for Safe Energy (MUSE) was a musical group founded in 1979 by Jackson Browne, Graham Nash, Bonnie Raitt, and John Hall, following the Three Mile Island nuclear accident. The group organized a series of five \"No Nukes\" concerts held at Madison Square Garden in New York City in September 1979. On September 23, 1979, almost 200,000 people attended a large anti-nuclear rally staged by MUSE on the then-empty north end of the Battery Park City landfill in New York. The album \"No Nukes\", and a film, also titled \"No Nukes\", were both released in 1980 to document the performances.\n\nIn 2007, Bonnie Raitt, Graham Nash, and Jackson Browne, as part of the No Nukes group, recorded a music video of the Buffalo Springfield song \"For What It's Worth\".\n\nThe \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\" is a nontechnical online magazine that has been published continuously since 1945, when it was founded by former Manhattan Project physicists after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The \"Bulletin\"s primary aim is to inform the public about nuclear policy debates while advocating for the international control of nuclear weapons. One of the driving forces behind the creation of the \"Bulletin\" was the amount of public interest surrounding atomic energy at the dawn of the atomic age. In 1945 the public interest in atomic warfare and weaponry inspired contributors to the \"Bulletin\" to attempt to inform those interested about the dangers and destruction that atomic war could bring about. In the 1950s, the \"Bulletin\" was involved in the formation of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, annual conferences of scientists concerned about nuclear proliferation.\n\nHistorian Lawrence S. Wittner has argued that anti-nuclear sentiment and activism led directly to government policy shifts about nuclear weapons. Public opinion influenced policymakers by limiting their options and also by forcing them to follow certain policies over others. Wittner credits public pressure and anti-nuclear activism with \"Truman’s decision to explore the Baruch Plan, Eisenhower’s efforts towards a nuclear test ban and the 1958 testing moratorium, and Kennedy’s signing of the Partial Test Ban Treaty\".\n\nIn terms of nuclear power, \"Forbes\" magazine, in the September 1975 issue, reported that \"the anti-nuclear coalition has been remarkably successful ... [and] has certainly slowed the expansion of nuclear power.\" California has banned the approval of new nuclear reactors since the late 1970s because of concerns over waste disposal, and some other U.S. states have a moratorium on construction of nuclear power plants. Between 1975 and 1980, a total of 63 nuclear units were canceled in the United States. Anti-nuclear activities were among the reasons, but the primary motivations were the overestimation of future demand for electricity and steadily increasing capital costs, which made the economics of new plants unfavorable.\n\nThe proliferation of nuclear weapons became a presidential priority issue for the Carter Administration in the late 1970s. To deal with proliferation problems, President Carter promoted stronger international control over nuclear technology, including nuclear reactor technology. Although a strong supporter of nuclear power generally, Carter turned against the breeder reactor because the plutonium it produced could be diverted into nuclear weapons.\n\nFor many years after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster nuclear power was off the policy agenda in most countries. In recent years, intense public relations activities by the nuclear industry, increasing evidence of climate change and failures to address it, have brought nuclear power issues back to the forefront of policy discussion in the nuclear renaissance countries. But some countries are not prepared to expand nuclear power and are still divesting themselves of their nuclear legacy, through nuclear power phase-out legislation.\n\nUnder the \"New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and Arms Control Act 1987\", all territorial sea and land of New Zealand is declared a nuclear free zone. Nuclear-powered and nuclear-armed ships are prohibited from entering the country's territorial waters. Dumping of foreign radioactive waste and development of nuclear weapons in the country is outlawed. Despite common misconception, this act does not make nuclear power plants illegal, nor does it make radioactive medical treatments produced in overseas reactors illegal. A 2008 survey shows that 19% of New Zealanders favour nuclear power as the best energy source, while 77% prefer wind power as the best energy source.\n\nOn 26 February 1990, FW de Klerk issued orders to terminate the country's nuclear weapons programme, which until then had been a state secret. South Africa becomes the first country in the world to voluntary give-up its nuclear weapons programme.\n\nIreland, in 1999, had no plans to change its non-nuclear stance and pursue nuclear power in the future.\n\nIn the United States, the Navajo Nation forbids uranium mining and processing in its land.\n\nIn the United States, a 2007 University of Maryland survey showed that 73 percent of the public surveyed favours the elimination of all nuclear weapons, 64 percent support removing all nuclear weapons from high alert, and 59 percent support reducing U.S. and Russian nuclear stockpiles to 400 weapons each. Given the unpopularity of nuclear weapons, U.S. politicians have been wary of supporting new nuclear programs. Republican-dominated congresses \"have defeated the Bush administration's plan to build so-called 'bunker-busters' and 'mini-nukes'.\"\n\nThe Megatons to Megawatts Program converts weapons-grade material from nuclear warheads into fuel for nuclear power plants.\n\nThirty-one countries operate nuclear power plants. Nine nations possess nuclear weapons:\n\nToday, some 26,000 nuclear weapons remain in the arsenals of the nine nuclear powers, with thousands on hair-trigger alert. Although U.S., Russian, and British nuclear arsenals are shrinking in size, those in the four Asian nuclear nations—China, India, Pakistan, and North Korea—are growing, in large part because of tensions among them. This Asian arms race also has possibilities of bringing Japan into the nuclear club.\nDuring Barack Obama's successful U.S. presidential election campaign, he advocated the abolition of nuclear weapons. Since his election he has reiterated this goal in several major policy addresses. In 2010, the Obama administration negotiated a new weapons accord with Russia for a reduction of the maximum number of deployed nuclear weapons on each side from 2,200 to between 1,500 and 1,675—a reduction of some 30 percent. In addition, President Obama has committed $15 billion over the next five years to improving the safety of the nuclear weapons stockpile.\n\nFollowing the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, the Italian government put a one-year moratorium on plans to revive nuclear power. On 11–12 June 2011, Italian voters passed a referendum to cancel plans for new reactors. Over 94% of the electorate voted in favor of the construction ban, with 55% of the eligible voters participating, making the vote binding.\n\nGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan's Fukushima I nuclear accidents and anti-nuclear protests within Germany. Seven of the German power stations were closed temporarily in March, and they will remain off-line and be permanently decommissioned. An eighth was already off line, and will stay so.\n\nAs of 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Israel, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Norway remain opposed to nuclear power. Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power.\n\nIn 2005, the International Atomic Energy Agency presented the results of a series of public opinion surveys in the \"Global Public Opinion on Nuclear Issues\" report. Majorities of respondents in 14 of the 18 countries surveyed believe that the risk of terrorist acts involving radioactive materials at nuclear facilities is high, because of insufficient protection. While majorities of citizens generally support the continued use of existing nuclear power reactors, most people do not favour the building of new nuclear plants, and 25% of respondents feel that all nuclear power plants should be closed down. Stressing the climate change benefits of nuclear energy positively influences 10% of people to be more supportive of expanding the role of nuclear power in the world, but there is still a general reluctance to support the building of more nuclear power plants.\n\nThere is little support across the world for building new nuclear reactors, a 2011 poll for the BBC indicates. The global research agency GlobeScan, commissioned by BBC News, polled 23,231 people in 23 countries from July to September 2011, several months after the Fukushima nuclear disaster. In countries with existing nuclear programmes, people are significantly more opposed than they were in 2005, with only the UK and US bucking the trend. Most believe that boosting energy efficiency and renewable energy can meet their needs.\n\nAttempts to reach political agreement on effective policies for climate change continue, and pro-nuclear environmentalists seek to reverse the traditionally anti-nuclear attitudes of environmentalists. Filmmaker Rob Stone's \"Pandora's Promise\" (2013) is a good example of this trend.\n\nSome environmentalists criticise the anti-nuclear movement for under-stating the environmental costs of fossil fuels and non-nuclear alternatives, and overstating the environmental costs of nuclear energy. Of the numerous nuclear experts who have offered their expertise in addressing controversies, Bernard Cohen, Professor Emeritus of Physics at the University of Pittsburgh, is likely the most frequently cited. In his extensive writings he examines the safety issues in detail. He is best known for comparing nuclear safety to the relative safety of a wide range of other phenomena.\n\nAnti-nuclear activists are accused of encouraging radiophobic emotions among the public. \"The War Against the Atom\" (Basic Books, 1982) Samuel MacCracken of Boston University argued that in 1982, 50,000 deaths per year could be attributed directly to non-nuclear power plants, if fuel production and transportation, as well as pollution, were taken into account. He argued that if non-nuclear plants were judged by the same standards as nuclear ones, each US non-nuclear power plant could be held responsible for about 100 deaths per year.\n\nThe Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) is the main lobby group for companies doing nuclear work in the United States, while most countries that employ nuclear energy have a national industry group. The World Nuclear Association is the only global trade body. In seeking to counteract the arguments of nuclear opponents, it points to independent studies that quantify the costs and benefits of nuclear energy and compares them to the costs and benefits of alternatives. NEI sponsors studies of its own, but it also references studies performed for the World Health Organization, for the International Energy Agency, and by university researchers.\n\nCritics of the anti-nuclear movement point to independent studies that show that the capital resources required for renewable energy sources are higher than those required for nuclear power.\n\nSome people, including former opponents of nuclear energy, criticise the movement on the basis of the claim that nuclear power is necessary for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. These individuals include James Lovelock, originator of the Gaia hypothesis, Patrick Moore, a co-founder of Greenpeace and former director of Greenpeace International, George Monbiot and Stewart Brand, creator of the Whole Earth Catalog. Lovelock goes further to refute claims about the danger of nuclear energy and its waste products. In a January 2008 interview, Moore said that \"It wasn't until after I'd left Greenpeace and the climate change issue started coming to the forefront that I started rethinking energy policy in general and realised that I had been incorrect in my analysis of nuclear as being some kind of evil plot.\"\n\nSome anti-nuclear organisations have acknowledged that their positions are subject to review.\n\nIn April 2007, Dan Becker, Director of Global Warming for the Sierra Club, declared, \"Switching from dirty coal plants to dangerous nuclear power is like giving up smoking cigarettes and taking up crack.\" James Lovelock criticizes holders of such a view: \"Opposition to nuclear energy is based on irrational fear fed by Hollywood-style fiction, the Green lobbies and the media.\" \". . .I am a Green and I entreat my friends in the movement to drop their wrongheaded objection to nuclear energy.\"\n\nGeorge Monbiot, an English writer known for his environmental and political activism, once expressed deep antipathy to the nuclear industry. He finally rejected his later neutral position regarding nuclear power in March 2011. Although he \"still loathe[s] the liars who run the nuclear industry\", Monbiot now advocates its use, having been convinced of its relative safety by what he considers the limited effects of the 2011 Japan tsunami on nuclear reactors in the region. Subsequently, he has harshly condemned the anti-nuclear movement, writing that it \"has misled the world about the impacts of radiation on human health ... made [claims] ungrounded in science, unsupportable when challenged and wildly wrong.\" He singled out Helen Caldicott for, he wrote, making unsourced and inaccurate claims, dismissing contrary evidence as part of a cover-up, and overstating the death toll from the Chernobyl disaster by a factor of more than 140.\n\n"}
{"id": "31968920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31968920", "title": "Australophile", "text": "Australophile\n\nAn Australophile is one who appreciates or expresses love of Australian culture, the Australian people, Australian history or all things Australian in general. An Australophile may extend to someone who is born outside Australia and the definition is not limited to an Australian itself. The concept of Australophilia is opposed to Australophobia, which is the dislike or fear of Australia and its cultural aspects. \n\nThe phenomenon was notable in the United States in the 1980's, as many films released at the time took place in Australia or featured Australian characters.\n\nAustralia is also a popular choice for students attending universities who are doing study abroad programs.\n\nIn some cases, the term \"Australophile\" represents an individual's appreciation of Australian history and traditional Australian culture (e.g. Ned Kelly, Steve Irwin, Don Bradman, Phar Lap) Australophile may also be characterized by fondness for the Outback, Uluru, beaches of Australia and Great Barrier Reef or institutions (e.g. Australian and New Zealand Army Corps, Surf Life Saving Australia, Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia), and the old Australian class system. Australophile may enjoy Australian actors, films, TV shows, radio shows, comedy, musicians, books, magazines, fashion designers, Architecture cars, traditions (e.g. Sausage sizzle) or subcultures. \n\nAustralian artists such as Olivia Newton-John, Kylie Minogue, Keith Urban, and Iggy Azalea have found success abroad throughout the history of popular culture. \n\nAustralia has been the setting for many films. Film franchises such as Mad Max and Crocodile Dundee have been credited as leading to a sparked interest in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "8475291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8475291", "title": "Bahamian English", "text": "Bahamian English\n\nBahamian English is a variety of English spoken in the Bahamas and by Bahamian diasporas. The standard for official use and education is British-based.\n\nThe Bahamian accent is non-rhotic.\n\nThe realization of vowels in the Bahamian English. The vowels below are named by the lexical set they belong to:\n\nThere is poor distinction between the and sounds in Bahamian English. \nThe contrast is often neutralized or merged into , or , so \"village\" sounds like , or . This also happens in the Vincentian, Bermudian and other Caribbean Englishes.\n\nDental fricatives are usually changed to alveolar plosives (\"th\"-stopping):\n\n"}
{"id": "6426724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6426724", "title": "Baths of Agrippa", "text": "Baths of Agrippa\n\nThe Baths of Agrippa (Latin: Thermae Agrippae) was a structure of ancient Rome, in what is now Italy, built by Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa. It was the first of the great thermae constructed in the city, and also the first public bath.\n\nIn the bath's first form, completed in 25 BC, it was a hot-air room also known as a \"laconian sudatorium or gymnasium\". With the completion of the Aqua Virgo in 19 BC, the baths were supplied with water and with the addition of a large lake and canal (\"Stagnum Agrippae\").\n\nBetween the construction and Agrippa's death in 12 BC, the Baths were open to the public with an entrance fee charge. This charge was typically a quadran. Upon his death, Agrippa left the baths to the citizens of Rome to use free of charge in exchange for donating various estates to Augustus, creating the first public bath structure.\n\nThe Baths of Agrippa were damaged along with many other structures by a large fire in AD 80, but were restored shortly thereafter by Domitian.\n\nThe thermae were enlarged under Hadrian in the second century AD and later by the emperors Constantius and Constans in the fourth century AD. Sidonius Apollonaris mentions that the Baths of Agrippa were still being used in the fifth century.\n\nIn 599, Pope Gregory the Great transformed the Baths into a nunnery.\n\nIn the 7th century the structure (no longer in use after the Ostrogoths cut off the Roman aqueducts in the 530s) was being mined for its building materials, but much of the Baths were still standing in the 16th century, when the ruins were drawn by Baldassare Peruzzi and Andrea Palladio, among others.\n\nToday just part of the circular wall of the rotunda remains.\n\nThe first version of the Baths of Agrippa, also known as the \"Laconicum\", was finished in 25 BCE. A \"laconicum\" appears to have been an earlier version of a heated bath which was also associated with a running track and exercise facilities for youths. Dio tells us that they “gave the name \"Laconian\" to the gymnasium because the Lacedaemonians had a greater reputation at that time than any one else for stripping and exercising after anointing themselves with oil”. Agrippa also dedicated his Pantheon, the original structure where the current Trajanic reconstruction sits, in the same year. In fact, Cassius Dio claims that three structures were completed by Agrippa in this year, the third being the Stoa of Neptune, suggesting that all three were related.\n\nThe Baths of Agrippa are the first known to have contained monumental sculpture, including the famous Apoxyomenos of Lysippus, the famed court sculptor of Alexander the Great. In fact, Pliny the Elder mentions the baths several times, noting that they were \"a point of departure in artistic endeavor, implying that the building was perceived as groundbreaking in certain respects\". \n\nThe full version of the \"thermae\", or Baths of Agrippa, did not come into use until after the completion of the Aqua Virgo in 19 BCE. This new aqueduct was paid for by Agrippa himself and was one of a series of works connected with Roman water supply and sewers over which Agrippa seems to have had managerial control. The Aqua Virgo is still in use today after almost 2000 years, terminating, and currently supplying the waters to, the Trevi Fountain. These building projects were a few of the many which Agrippa undertook within the Roman \"Campus Martius\" and across the Empire, constituting aqueducts, fountains, porticoes, baths, roads, a voting precinct, a theatre, a bridge, and a harbour.\n\nAgrippa built up the area around the complex to include gardens with nice walks and colonnades with resting places and shelters from the sun. Wright claims that “The total effect was somewhat like the Athenian \"gymnasia\", the Lyceum, or the grove of Academus, but on a very much larger and more sumptuous scale.” That the bath itself could have served a multitude of functions, serving as a type of club with “a restaurant, a reading-room, and a bathing establishment with every kind of bath then known, hot, tepid, cold, vapour, and shower”. Indeed, it would appear as though bathing had begun to become more complex around the time of the late Republic going into the early Empire, introducing three different types of rooms and pools: The \"frigidarium\" (cold pool), the \"tepidarium\" (or luke-warm to room temperature pool), and the \"caldarium\" (hot room and pool). Whether or not the \"caldarium\" within the Baths of Agrippa contained window glass to sufficiently heat up the room and keep the heat in, as was the case within the Baths of Trajan and other later examples of Imperial bathing facilities, remains unknown due to the scant archaeological evidence of the site. \n\nHowever, the baths, being a highly experimental project within the city of Rome, seem to have lacked a larger swimming pool, present in later Imperial bathing structures. It has been pointed out that this need could have been met with the man-made \"Stagnum\" (lake) of Agrippa or, more likely, the \"Euripus\" (canal) which allowed for runoff from the \"Stagnum\" to flow into the Tiber (please see below for more information on both the \"Stagnum\" and the \"Euripus\").\nAgrippa's baths, along with his other work within the Campus Martius, were burned down in the great fire of 80 AD in the reign of Titus. These appear to have been restored almost immediately during the reigns of either Titus or Domitian as Martial mentions they were often frequented. Repairs and rebuilding were completed again under the Antonines as well as the Severan emperors. There was a further reconstruction during the reign of Constantius and Constans in 354-355 AD which was noted on an inscription found near Santa Maria in Monterone, found not far from the west side of the baths.\nKnowledge of the structure and location of the Baths of Agrippa is based on a small fragment of the Marble Plan that was discovered in 1900 as well as drawings made in the 16th century of the ruins while they were still standing. Today scant archaeological evidence of the Baths remains. \n\nIt was constructed on the Campus Martius along with the original Pantheon under Agrippa's large building program. The area covered by the structure was about 110 meters North/South and 90 meters East/West. Along with the rest of Agrippa's buildings, the Baths were surrounded by gardens.\n\nThere was a large rotunda (\"Arco Della Ciambella\") on the north side of the building 25 meters in diameter, that is visible in the sketches found in the seventeenth century. The dome was believed to be a social gathering spot for the bathers.\n\nThe area west of the rotunda had evidence of a hypocaust system and hollow terra-cotta tiles, indicating several heated rooms.\n\nThe baths were decorated with glazed Terra-cotta tile, paintings, and with the \"Apoxyomenos\" of Lysippus at the entrance.\n\nBy the late Republic and into the early Principate, bathing within Rome had started to become more complex. This can be traced through Imperial bathing structures, including those of Agrippa, becoming more and more grand and complex. Indeed, some theories suggest that it would appear as though the building of public bathing complexes was not taken on for some time due to the somewhat shady nature of the activities which took place within them. Recent studies have in fact shown that while the building of certain structures was considered virtuous (temples, fora, roads, aqueducts, et cetera), building of other types of structures (brothels, taverns, and other lowly structures) were symbolic of vice. Through these theories, it would appear as though the building of baths occupied a grayish middle-ground in between, “standing somewhere between useful public monuments and lowly havens of corporeal dissipation”. This is a likely explanation as to why there were no senatorially decreed bathing complexes during the Republic. Although senators likely did not avoid the baths altogether, they did not want to spend public money on their construction.\n\nBefore the completion of the Bath of Agrippa, during the Roman Republic, water which was brought into the city via one of its many aqueducts was not used for baths. Owners of private bathing complexes were forced to purchase water which had run off from publicly accessible troughs. Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa innovated here as well, servicing his baths with water fed directly from his freshly built aqueduct, the Aqua Virgo. However, it must not be forgotten that the Baths of Agrippa began as a private bathing complex as well, paid for personally by Marcus Agrippa himself who was, by this time, one of the most wealthy men in the Roman world. However, upon his death in 12 BCE, the baths were bequeathed to the Roman people in Agrippa’s will, making it the first public bathing complex in the city of Rome (although not the first in the Empire). This action caused a change in the attitudes within the Senate towards bathing complexes, removing their construction from the grey area and placing them into the realm of virtuous structures, although Agrippa’s example would not be followed until Nero constructed his baths in the early to mid 60s AD.\n\nIndeed, it would seem as though the technological achievement of the baths was not lost on the Roman people, being able to control and contain vast amounts of water and even control the desired temperature at which certain pools were kept.\n\nEvidence suggests that bathing began to become much more popular within Rome during the first century BCE, when far greater numbers of Romans began bathing in public with more frequency. These numbers would again drastically increase during the first century AD. A passage within Varro states that when baths were originally introduced within the city of Rome there were separate sections for men and women, which is hinted at archaeologically within Republican baths which often feature an architectural division. In a passage of Cicero, detailing a particularly heated exchange between L. Licinius Crassus and M. Junius Brutus, it is brought to light that it was considered improper at the time for father and son to bathe together. However, the passage also indicates that, although the senators were not building baths at the time, they were still frequenting the private bath houses. \n\nA trip to the Baths of Agrippa, along with other private baths, was meant to be a pleasurable experience. According to Lucian, commenting on a trip to the Baths of Hippias, they were “brightly lit throughout, adorned with marbles from Phrygia and Numidia, and inscribed with citations from Pindar”. There appears one inscription that mentions a museum which was attached to a bathing complex where art was put on display and where discussions and lectures could be organized. Indeed, the baths of Rome have been recognized as social hubs within the Roman world, where members of the senatorial class would rub shoulders with the lower classes of society, even slaves, marking a strangely egalitarian feature of Roman life.\n\nThe Baths of Agrippa appear to have featured the main three types of pools and rooms which were the staple of Roman baths: the \"frigidarium\" (cold pool), \"tepidarium\" (mild/tepid pool), and \"caldarium\" (hot room and pool). There is research that suggests that these rooms could be visited in both orders, going from cold to hot, or hot to cold. The hottest of the rooms, the \"caldarium\", would have relied on both heating from under the floors, created by fanning hot air from fires underneath the water basin, as well as heat from the sun, a feature which exploded after window glass became increasingly popular throughout Rome. It has also been suggested that the ringing of a bell (\"tintinabulum\") may have communicated to nearby Romans that the hot pools were open. However, this has also been criticized for various reasons of practicality, preferring the more reasonable explanation that bells were used to mark the imminent clothing of the bathing complex.\n\nBaths in the Roman world were a one-stop-shop of socialization, health, and entertainment. Where one could exercise, play sports or ball games, play board games, philosophize, create business arrangements, and wash away the dirt and grime of everyday life within ancient Rome. There is no doubt that these complexes were microcosms of Roman life and even potentially small embodiments of the Roman world itself.\n\nThe Aqua Virgo was completed in 19 BCE and was the last of a series of constructions initiated by Agrippa concerning water management within the city of Rome. Without a proper water supply the Baths of Agrippa would not have been able to function. The Aqua Virgo provided this water, along with supplying regions VII, IX, and XIV. This complemented the Aqua Julia which Agrippa also built in 33 B.C. to supply regions II, III, V, VI, VIII, X, and XII. \n\nThe source of the water transported by the aqueduct was located within the villa of Lucullus, 8 miles from the city along the Via Collatina. In antiquity, the Aqua Virgo travelled past the Baths of Agrippa, bringing water as far as the \"Trans Tiberim\" (across the Tiber), potentially using the \"Pons Agrippae\" (Bridge of Agrippa) to do so. Today the Aqua Virgo is still in use, almost 2000 years after its initial opening, terminating at, and supplying the waters for, the Trevi Fountain.\n\nThe \"Euripus\" was a canal which ran from the area of the Stagnum and drained into the Tiber. It was originally thought that Agrippa’s lake was fed exclusively by the Aqua Virgo, using the canal to drain the lake directly into the Tiber. However, Strabo’s mention of Agrippa setting up a statue (“The Fallen Lion” of Lysippus) in a grove which lay between the \"Stagnum\" and the \"Euripus\" leads one to believe that the two were actually distinct features of the landscape. Therefore, it seems likely that the canal was indeed fed exclusively by the Aqua Virgo with water that was mentioned to have been quite cold. In fact, Frontinus mentions that the waters were given to the \"Euripus\" by the Aqueduct which gave it its name, \"Euripus Virginis\", essentially meaning the canal of the Aqua Virgo. Seneca also stated that he enjoyed bringing in the new year with a good-luck plunge into the Virgo, which he did in the \"Euripus\". Thus, as Lloyd has suggested, the \"Euripus\" could have served as a cold plunge-pool for the Baths of Agrippa. The large size of the \"Euripus\" could also imply that it could have stood in as a swimming area for the baths. \n\nThe \"Stagnum\", along with the \"Euripus\" were very likely added into the landscape as features to compliment the pleasure gardens which Agrippa placed around his baths. The lake is most often placed to the west of the bath structure and, as previously mentioned above, there are, in fact, no references to anyone swimming in the \"Stagnum\", using it in lieu of the lacking swimming pool in the bath structure. Some theories postulate the lake was lined with quays, suggesting that boating on the lake may have been popular. The \"Stagnum\" may have been fed by runoff waters from the baths. This runoff of used water would certainly have dissuaded people from swimming in the lake. However, it might appear more likely to some that the Aqua Virgo fed most of the water into the lake. \n\nThe \"Stagnum\" was indeed quite large, being able to host a large banquet for Nero, hosted by Tigillinus, which was held on a raft towed by other boats. The lake could also have served a more practical purpose, serving as a drainage area for the low-lying region of the Campus Martius, which was prone to flooding throughout antiquity.\n\n"}
{"id": "9365146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9365146", "title": "Bigfoot in popular culture", "text": "Bigfoot in popular culture\n\nBigfoot or Sasquatch, is an alleged ape-like creature purportedly inhabiting forests, mainly in the Pacific Northwest region of North America. More than fifty years have passed since the first supposed sightings of Bigfoot were reported in California. The character of Bigfoot has been used frequently in popular culture including film, TV, advertising, and literature. Bigfoot has also been the subject of several tourism campaigns.\n\n\"Bigfoot\" and \"Sasquatch\" are pop culture terms that have been used in advertising across many different products and services, such as pizzas, beef jerky, skateboards, skis, an Internet search engine, a computer hard drive series, gas stations, Kokanee beer, Bigfoot Shadows award winning wine and a monster truck.\n\n\n\n\nSkamania County, Washington passed a law regarding Bigfoot in 1969 declaring that \"any willful, wanton slaying of such creatures shall be deemed a felony\" subject to substantial fine and/or imprisonment. The fact that this legislation was passed on April 1 did not escape notice, but County Commissioner Conrad Lundy said that \"this is not an April Fool's Day joke ... there is reason to believe such an animal exists.\" Hunter and Dahinden mention their own \"speculation that Skamania County authorities had their ears tuned much more to the music of a publicity bandwagon than to any song of distress\" for Bigfoot. Notwithstanding, the ordinance was amended in 1984 to preclude an insanity defense and to consider such a killing homicide if the creature was proven by the coroner to be humanoid. \n\nComplete copies of legislation (May 2015) at http://www.skamaniacounty.org/commissioners/homepage/ordinances-2.\n\nIn response to Al Magnussen from the Mt. Baker Chamber of Commerce, Whatcom County, Washington, an Agenda Bill was drafted (92-247) on 6/9/91, which unanimously passed a resolution declaring Whatcom County a Sasquatch Protection and Refuge Area.\n\nMany have written on the subject, demonstrating a broad spectrum of approaches from a small body of serious scholarly work to lurid tabloids, such as the \"Weekly World News\". \"The Gwaii\", published by Arcana Studio, is an award winning children's graphic novel that features a sasquatch named Tanu searching for his mother and tribe in the Canadian wilderness. John Prufrock, the hero of the comic book \"Proof\", is a Bigfoot who works for a secret agency that hunts and captures other cryptids. The comic, an ongoing series, was written by Alex Grecian and illustrated by Riley Rossmo. It was published in Image Comics from October 2007 to May 2011. \"Donations to Clarity\", a 2011 novel by Noah Baird, tells the story of a Bigfoot who falls in love with a Bigfoot hoaxer. The Sasquatch appears in the Italian comic series \"Tex\" (as a huge wild man with thaumaturgical powers) and \"Martin Mystère\". In the non-canon \"Star Wars Tales\" comic \"Into the Great Unknown\" - in which the \"Millennium Falcon\", after a blind hyperspace jump,\" \"crash-lands on what appears to be Endor but is in fact the Pacific Northwest around the time of Lewis and Clark, resulting in Han Solo's death at the hands of the natives and the eventual discovery of his body by Indiana Jones (who is disturbed by something \"eerily familiar\" about the remains) - \"Sasquatch\" is actually Chewbacca. One of the main characters from the Canadian Marvel Comics superhero team Alpha Flight is Sasquatch. Famed alternate history author Harry Turtledove has written a humorous Sasquatch story titled \"Typecasting\" (2016), published online here. The version of Bigfoot appearing in \"A Goofy Movie\" (1995) reappears in the comic strip \"Picture Perfect\" of the Brandon J. Santigo webcomic \"Erma\", playing with Erma Williams, the series' title character. The series is published in conjunction with Outcast Studios. In the poem \"Satch\" by Jeannette Allée (Fence literary magazine, Vol. 8,1&2, Summer 2005), Bigfoot is a metaphor for how individuals childishly hide from their own talents, desires, love.\n\nSasquatch Books is the largest publishing house in the Pacific Northwest. Its logo features a Sasquatch paw print.\n\nBigfoot has been addressed in American song and music, with both songs written about and by Bigfoot enthusiasts, as well as music incorporating what are claimed to be or supposed to be recordings of Bigfoot sounds made in nature.\n\n\nThe song \"Bigfoot\" by the Winnipeg indie-rock band The Weakerthans is about the frustration and humiliation of a man who is purported to have seen a Bigfoot.\n\n\n\n\n\"Sasquatched! The Musical\" is a musical play written and composed by Minnesota native Phil Darg in 2012. It follows the story of a gentle, dignified talking Sasquatch named Arthur, his interactions with the human characters of the surrounding Pacific Northwest area, and the issues revolving around Sasquatch-human relations. The style of the play is humorous, fast-moving, and family-friendly. The play was submitted as an entry to the New York Musical Theatre Festival in September 2012. In February, it was chosen as one of NYMF's Next Link selections and later received an award from the Anna Sosenko Assist Trust. In July 2013, the show was performed as part of NYMF at the Pearl Theatre in New York City.\n\nThere are annual Bigfoot-related conventions, and the creature plays a role in Pacific Northwest tourism, such as the annual \"Sasquatch Daze\" held for several years in Harrison Hot Springs, British Columbia. Primatologist and Bigfoot researcher John Napier commented on this, stating that \"Bigfoot in some quarters of North America has become big business ... It can no longer be considered simply as a natural phenomenon that can be studied with the techniques of a naturalist; the entrepreneurs have moved in and folklore has become fakelore.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18028105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18028105", "title": "British Numismatic Society", "text": "British Numismatic Society\n\nThe British Numismatic Society (BNS) is an organisation for promoting and realization of the study of British coins and medals. It was founded in 1903. \n\nIts principal publication is the \"British Numismatic Journal\", (published from 1903) commonly abbreviated to \"BNJ\" in academic references. The BNS publishes the separate books (especially catalogues of coins) and some serial publications.\n\nThe BNS has the library combined and integrated with the library of the Royal Numismatic Society and located at the Warburg Institute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24939285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24939285", "title": "Chemical chirality in popular fiction", "text": "Chemical chirality in popular fiction\n\nThe theme of chemical chirality, or the \"handedness\" of the molecular structure of certain substances, appears in many works of fiction.\n\nAlthough little was known about chemical chirality in the time of Lewis Carroll, his work \"Through the Looking-glass\" contains a prescient reference to the differing biological activities of enantiomeric drugs: \"Perhaps Looking-glass milk isn't good to drink,\" Alice said to her cat. A supplemental story to \"The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\" made reference to this, mentioning in passing that after her return from the mirror world, her body was mirror-flipped, presumably down to the molecular level, as she was unable to digest food afterwards.\n\nIn Arthur C. Clarke's short story \"Technical Error\" (also titled \"The Reversed Man\"), a technician working on a giant superconducting generator is accidentally \"inverted\" into his mirror image, right down to the coins in his pocket. When he is found to be starving despite an apparently-healthy diet, the culprit is determined to be the amino acids in his food, which are natural amino acids and opposite in chirality to those his body now requires.\n\nIsaac Asimov's short story \"Left to Right\" concerns an unknown \"change in parity\", and mentions biological incompatibilities due to chirality as one possible consequence.\n\nIn Dorothy L. Sayers's novel \"The Documents in the Case\", a murder is committed that is designed to appear as accidental death from eating poisonous mushrooms containing muscarine. The case is proved to be murder because the muscarine found in the deceased's stomach is racemic and therefore synthetic.\n\nIn James Blish's Star Trek novella \"Spock Must Die!\", Spock's mirror-duplicate is later discovered to have stolen chemical reagents from the medical bay to convert certain amino acids to opposite-chirality isomers that his metabolism requires.\n\nIn Spider Robinson's Callahan's Place short story \"Mirror/rorriM On the Wall\", a mirror is constructed of thiotimoline which leads to a parallel but inverted universe. A character attempts to smuggle food between the two universes to sell as a diet product, since the amino acids are reversed and provide no caloric value.\n\nIn Larry Niven's \"Destiny's Road\", the title planet's indigenous life is based upon right-handed proteins. When human colonists arrive from Earth via a generation ship, extreme measures are taken to permit the colony's survival. A peninsula is sterilized with a lander's fusion drive, creating the titular \"road\" out of fused bedrock. The area is then reseeded with Earth life to provide the colonists with food. Though the soil lacks potassium due to other factors, necessitating supplements that produce a hydraulic empire common to Niven's fiction, the colony otherwise prospers. Native viruses and bacteria cannot infect colonists, resulting in longer lifespans. Sealife quickly recovers, and is consumed by the colonists as a \"diet\" food, as their digestive systems cannot metabolize it into fat.\n\nMarti Steussy's \"Dreams of Dawn\" (1988) has a similar premise, where the locals evolved based on right-handed amino acids.\n\nThe denouement of Poul Anderson's \"After Doomsday\" relies partly on chirality.\n\nThe plot of Roger Zelazny's \"Doorways in the Sand\" centers around a device called the Rhennius Machine, which reverses objects that pass through it, down to the atomic level. It is mentioned that an earlier version of the machine destroyed itself by reversing matter to antimatter.\n\nDaniel Suarez's novel \"Change Agent\" includes a character \"the Mirror man\" who is immune to neurotoxins due to his mirrored chirality.\n\nIn Damon Knight's \"A For Anything\", Leroy Platt uses a matter duplicator to make food; \"Eating the food, too: Why not? Just put it through twice, make sure you don't get any reversed peptide chains.\"\n\nIn the \"Trauma Center\" series of games, doctors test for a \"chiral reaction\" in order to determine whether or not a patient is infected with \"Gangliated Utrophin Immuno Latency Toxin,\" a fictional, parasitic pathogen more commonly referred to as \"GUILT\". A positive reaction means the patient is infected, while a negative reaction means the patient has either been cured or is not infected.\n\nIn the video game \"Mass Effect\", the turian and quarian alien species have biology based upon right-handed amino acids. Because of this, foods from other species which have life forms based upon left-handed amino acids have no nutritional value and may cause fatal allergic reactions. The process works both ways—species based on left-handed acids, such as humans, cannot consume food from the turian or quarian homeworlds. Left-handed amino acids are portrayed as being more common than right-handed versions. The chirality difference is colloquially referred to as \"Levo\" and \"Dextro\" by characters in the game.\n\nThe television series \"Breaking Bad\" features the \"Heisenberg\" method of methamphetamine manufacture, which produces a 99% chirally pure product.\n\n"}
{"id": "49142383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49142383", "title": "Cornelia James (company)", "text": "Cornelia James (company)\n\nCornelia James is a firm of British glovemakers, founded in 1946, and with a Royal Warrant since 1979.\n\nCornelia Katz was born in Vienna in 1917, and left in 1939 via Paris to London to try to get a United States visa, but met Jack James and married him six weeks later in 1940. She was a Jewish refugee and set up business in London in 1946 making gloves. In 1947, Norman Hartnell asked her to make the \"going-away\" gloves for the then Princess Elizabeth after her marriage to Prince Phillip.\n\nIn the 1950s, the company had 250 employees in a former dairy in Brighton.\n\nCornelia James has been Royal Warrant holders since 1979, and is now based in Lewes, Sussex.\n\nThe company is now run by her daughter, Genevieve James, who's also the brand's creative director. Notable clients include the Duchess of Cambridge, Princess Anne, Rihanna, Taylor Swift and Madonna.\n\nCornelia James produces high-end products for wealthy individuals. A pair of full-length pure-wool gloves cuffed with silver fox fur cost $570. Japan is the company's best customer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2675164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2675164", "title": "Cyberpsychology", "text": "Cyberpsychology\n\nCyberpsychology (also known as Internet psychology or web psychology) is a developing field that encompasses all psychological phenomena associated with or affected by emerging technology. \"Cyber\" comes from the word cyberspace, the study of the operation of control and communication; psychology is the study of the mind and behavior.\n\nCyberpsychology is the study of the human mind and behavior and how the culture of technology, specifically, virtual reality, and social media affect them. Mainstream research studies focus on the effect of the Internet and cyberspace on the psychology of individuals and groups. Some hot topics include: online identity, online relationships, personality types in cyberspace, transference to computers, addiction to computers and Internet, regressive behavior in cyberspace, online gender-switching, etc. Media Psychology is an emerging specialty and the Society for Media Psychology and Technology of the American Psychological Association, i.e., APA division 46 includes many cyber-psychologists among its members.\n\nWhile statistical and theoretical research in this field are based around Internet usage, cyberpsychology also includes the study of the psychological ramifications of cyborgs, artificial intelligence, and virtual reality. Although some of these topics may appear to be the stuff of science fiction, they are quickly becoming science fact as evidenced by interdisciplinary approaches in the fields of biology, engineering, and mathematics. The field of cyberpsychology remains open to refinement, including inquiry into the nature of current and future trends in mental illness associated with technological advances.\n\nIt was around the turn of the millennium that the United States broke the 50 percent mark in Internet use, personal computer use, and cell phone use. With such a broad exposure to computers and their displays, our perceptions go beyond objects and images in our natural environment to now include graphics and images on the computer screen. As the overlaps between man and machine expand, the relevance of human–computer interaction (HCI) research within the field of cyberpsychology will become more visible and necessary in understanding the current modern lifestyles of many people. With the rising number of Internet and computer users around the world, computer technology's effects on the human psyche will continue to significantly shape both our interactions with each other and our perceptions of a world literally \"at our fingertips\".\n\nAlthough cyberpsychology includes other technological platforms such as cybertherapy and the ramifications of virtual reality, the following section is focused on the effect of social media on human behavior, as it is the most prevalent platform for technology use.\n\nFacebook, the leading online social media platform globally, affects users' psychological status in multiple ways. Facebook follows the pattern of one-to-many communication which allows users to share information about their lives, including social activities and photographs. This feature was enhanced in 2012, when Facebook Messenger was implemented to allow users more one-on-one communication merging with the Facebook Chat feature. While Facebook users enjoy the sense of being connected, frequent use of Facebook is threatening users' mental health. Comparison, low self-esteem, depression, loneliness, and negative relationships are all possible detrimental consequences associated with frequent use of Facebook or other social media platforms. \n\nDue to the nature of Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, etc., social media users often compare the lives of their friends with their own. This can be deceptive when the social media user sees only the joyous or entertaining experiences in a friend's life and compares them to his or her own lesser experiences. According to a study published in the \"Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin\", Alexander Jordan, and his colleagues at Stanford University asked 80 freshmen to report whether they or their peers had recently experienced various negative or positive emotional events. Consistently, participants underestimated how many negative experiences (\"had a distressing fight\", \"felt sad because they missed people\", etc.) their peers were having while overestimating how much fun (\"going out with friends\", \"attending parties\", etc.) these same peers experienced. A similar study conducted at Stanford University showed that underestimating peers negative experiences correlated with greater loneliness and lower overall life satisfaction. Inviting constant comparisons inevitably lowers self-esteem and feelings of self-worth, hence, Facebook and other social media accounts appear to exploit an Achilles' heel of human nature.\n\nDecreased self-esteem can increase depression. Facebook specifically is criticized for causing depression, especially among teenage users. A study conducted by Michigan University consisting of 82 Facebook users over a two-week period, concluded that frequent Facebook use invoked feelings of depression and inadequacy. Social psychologist Ethan Kross, the lead author of the study, stated that the research tracked (on a moment-to-moment basis throughout the day) how a person's mood fluctuated during time spent on Facebook, and whether or not they modified their Facebook usage. Results suggest that as participants spent more time on Facebook, their feelings of well-being decreased and feelings of depression increased. Similarly, a study conducted at the University of Pittsburgh consisting of 1,787 participants between 19–32 years of age showed that participants in the highest quartile for social media site visits per week were at an increased likelihood of experiencing depression.\n\nAccording to Maslow's hierarchy of needs, social interaction and belonging are important aspects of psychological and emotional well-being. Although it is relatively common to have hundreds of friends on Facebook, it is unlikely that any one individual has that many solid person to person relationships. This can create social disconnect. Different from meeting friends face to face, chatting with an acquaintance or a total stranger online can increase feelings of loneliness instead of increasing feelings of social connection. This may be because Facebook uses of the \"like\" and \"comment\" button as means of interaction is too brief and does not show lasting concern. In the 2016 University of Pittsburgh study mentioned previously researched found that excessive social media usage increased feelings of social isolation, that is, as authentic social interactions were replaced by virtual relationships. Additionally, a 2011 study conducted at the University College of London examined the fMRI brain scans of 125 frequent Facebook users and found that the size of an individual's online social network is closely linked to brain structure associated with social cognition. This research provides evidence that social media platforms, such as Facebook, are changing the way people socialize, and that it may not be fulfilling social needs. \n\nAdditionally, 2012 research data from Purdue University indicates that social rejection or ostracism in an immersive virtual environment threatens four basic fundamental needs (i.e., belonging, control, self-esteem, and meaningful existence) and thus, has a negative impact on affect (emotion). This research suggests the possibility that individuals who use virtual environments (e.g., MMORPGs, massively multiplayer online role-playing games) may have everyday experiences with ostracism in these environments. This study presents the first known evidence of ostracism in virtual environments and revealed the effects of ostracism in virtual environments as powerful with effect sizes medium to large in magnitude.\n\nFacebook has also been linked to the increased divorce and break-up rates. Couples that fit this trend tend to express feelings of jealousy when their partner comment on a person of the opposite gender's wall. To cope with the uncertainty of a suspected romantic relationship, partner surveillance on Facebook is becoming more popular. However, skepticism between couples may inevitably cause the end of relationship. Russell B. Clayton, Alexander Nagurney and Jessica R. Smith, surveyed 205 Facebook users aged 18–82 to determine if frequent Facebook use predicated negative relationship outcomes. Furthermore, the researchers examined length of relationship as a moderator variable in the aforementioned model. The results indicate that a high level of Facebook usage is associated with negative relationship outcomes, and that these relationships are indeed mediated by Facebook-related conflict. This series of relationships only holds for those who are, or have been, in relatively newer relationships of 3 years or less. The current study adds to the growing body of literature investigating Internet use and relationship outcomes, and may be a precursor to further research investigating whether Facebook use attributes to the divorce rate, emotional cheating, and physical cheating.\n\nIt is important to note that these findings do not demonstrate causality. A similar study demonstrated that relationship maintenance behaviors, such as surveillance and monitoring, were indicators of current levels of trust within the relationship. This suggests that certain behaviors on social media may be predicting these negative relationships, rather than causing them. Further, the study also showed that Facebook can be a tool in strengthening and reaffirming a relationship, as it allows for positive expressions of trust, affection and commitment.\n\nA byproduct of social media addiction is the \"fear of missing out\", or FOMO. This fear develops from a user's repetitive and obsessive status-checking of \"friend\" status updates and posts related to social events or celebrations resulting in a feeling of being \"left out\" if these events are not experienced. There is also the closely related fear of being missed (FOBM), or the fear of invisibility. This fear involves an obsessive need to provide constant status updates on one's own personal, day-to-day life, movements, travel, events, etc. unable to \"un-plug\". There is evidence that suggests this type of anxiety is a mediating factor in both increased social media use and decreased self-esteem.\n\nResearch suggests that social networking can lead to sleep deprivation. A study commissioned by Travelodge hotels in the United Kingdom surveyed 6,000 adults to explore the nation's bedtime habits and key findings revealed 'we' have become a nation of 'Online-A-Holics'. On average each night Britons are spending 16 minutes in bed socially networking with pals – with the peak chatting time being 9:45 pm. This time spent social networking is affecting Britons sleep quota as on average respondents reported they are getting just six hours and 21 minutes sleep per night. (This is one hour and 39 minutes below the recommended quota of eight hours of sleep per night.) Further research findings revealed that 65% respondents stated the very last thing they do before nodding off at night is checking their mobile phone for text messages. On average Britons will spend around nine minutes every night texting before falling asleep, and four out of ten adults reported they have a regular text communication with friends in bed every night.\n\nRecent studies have shown a connection between online social media such as Facebook use to addictive behaviors, emotion regulation, impulse control, and substance abuse. This may be because people are learning to access and process information more rapidly and to shift attention quickly from one task to the next. All this access and vast selection is causing some entertainment seekers to develop the constant need for instant gratification with a loss of patience. Results from a survey of university undergraduates showed that almost 10% met criteria for what investigators describe as \"disordered social networking use\". Respondents who met criteria for \"Facebook addiction\" also reported statistically significant symptoms commonly linked to addiction, such as tolerance (increased Facebook use over time), withdrawal (irritability when unable to access Facebook), and cravings to access the site. \"Our findings suggest that there may be shared mechanisms underlying both substance and behavioral addictions,\" Hormes added. \n\nA results of a study in the journal of \"Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social Networking\" (2014) provided evidence that the prevalence of internet addiction varies considerably between countries and is inversely related to quality of life.\n\nA study conducted by the University of Haifa in 2011 showed that the more time teenage girls spend on Facebook, the higher their risk of developing negative body images and eating disorders. A more recent study by researchers at Florida State University found a correlation between Facebook use and disordered eating.\n\nResearchers examined the relationship between college women's media use and two sets of variables (disordered-eating symptomatology and a set of related variables, including body dissatisfaction and drive for thinness) and assessed the relationship between college men's media use and their endorsement of thinness for themselves and for women. We expected to find consumption of thinness-depicting and thinness-promoting (TDP) media related to disordered eating and thinness endorsement, with the social learning process of modeling accounting for the relationships. For women, media use predicted disordered-eating symptomatology, drive for thinness, body dissatisfaction, and ineffectiveness. For men, media use predicted endorsement of personal thinness and dieting and select attitudes in favor of thinness and dieting for women.\nIn the view of Dr. Robert Melillo, a chiropractic neurologist and founder of the Brain Balance Program, the environment strongly affects the development of ADHD. Although many factors contribute to ADHD (including genes, teratogens, parenting styles, etc.) a sedentary lifestyle centered on television, computer games, and mobile devices may increase the risk for ADHD. Specifically, \"When kids play computer games, their minds are processing information in a much different way than kids who are, say, running around on a playground...Recent studies have shown that playing computer games only builds very short-term attention that needs to be rewarded frequently.\" \n\nClinical psychologist Michelle Frank, who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of ADHD in college students, young adults, and women, stated, \"The ADHD brain is already one that struggles with motivation, activation, organizing behaviors, managing time, and maintaining focus...Technology, left un-managed, makes these struggles considerably more difficult. The unique challenges that result are prime vulnerabilities to the common pitfalls of technology use.\" Frank explained that an individual with ADHD has structural, functional, and chemical differences compared to a neurotypical brain. \n\nThese differences explain why ADHD individuals may be more prone to engage in risky or unhelpful behaviors online and struggle to control spontaneous impulses without thinking of future consequences. The ADHD brain is primed to seek out more stimulation that neurotypical brains, and technology is a ripe source of engagement. For these reasons, there is an emerging body of research that suggests that internet addiction and unhealthy social media activity may be more prevalent in ADHD individuals. Another compounding piece of the social media puzzle is related to time management. Individuals with ADHD have trouble with awareness of time, procrastination, avoidant behaviors, and staying on task. Frank explains that ADHD individuals often misperceive time and have trouble thinking into the future; NOW is the dominant time zone. Therefore, time management is a challenge. \n\nIn addition, Ju-Yu Yen at Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital in Taiwan discovered that being easily bored rather than easily distracted is the core symptom of inattentive ADHD. Internet activities are based highly upon their interactivity levels and immediate response rates; these quick actions relieve the feeling of boredom. In other words, the internet becomes a coping mechanism for those who cannot focus. Research concluded that male college students are more likely to be screened positively for adult ADHD; however, the overall association between Internet addiction and attention deficit is more significant in females. \n\nResearch conducted by Australian researchers demonstrated that a number of positive psychological outcomes are related to Facebook use. These researchers established that people can derive a sense of social connectedness and belongingness in the online environment. Importantly, this online social connectedness was associated with lower levels of depression and anxiety, and greater levels of subjective well-being. These findings suggest that the nature of online social networking determines the outcomes of online social network use.\nA consequent component of the social media experience is internet memes. As the internet acquired its own variety of memes and language, intellectual convergence became apparently existent in the minds of internet users. Digital inhabitants have voluntarily created various requirements and standards that must be met for a successful interaction. The distinguishing judgment of others is implied in the sharing of memes, and this judgment leads to differences in social existence. The phenomenon of information infection through internet memes can influence the ways internet users will acquire and interpret data. This in turn affects their participation, interactions, and behaviors online and offline.\n\nWhile internet memes appear to be simple pop culture references, they allow a glimpse into the formation of culture and language when more closely observed. These snippets of pop-culture serve to demonstrate how the collective mind of internet users relate to one another through seemingly ridiculous images and text. Despite the absurdity of some memes, they allow connections to be built through a shared experience. This shared experience is central to the development of the culture of the modern internet and those who primarily connect with others through it. This also shapes the culture of future generations as they become more enmeshed within this globalized culture and psyche.\n\nPsychotherapy in cyberspace, also known as cybertherapy or e-therapy, is a controversial matter with a history of doubts related to efficiency, validity and effectiveness. The first instance of this practice did not include interaction with a human, but rather a program called ELIZA, which was designed by Joseph Weizenbaum to answer questions and concerns with basic Rogerian responses. ELIZA proved to be so effective that many people either mistook the program for human, or became emotionally attached to it.\n\nIn today's most common computer-mediated form of counseling, a person e-mails or chats online with a therapist (online counseling). E-therapy may be particularly effective when conducted via video conferencing, as important cues such as facial expression and body language may be conveyed albeit in a less \"present\" way. At the same time, there are new applications of technology within psychology and healthcare which utilize augmented and virtual reality components—for example in pain management treatment, PTSD treatment, use of avatars in virtual environments, and self- and clinician-guided computerized cognitive behavior therapies. The voluminous work of Azy Barak (University of Haifa) and a growing number of researchers in the US and UK gives strong evidence to the efficacy (and sometimes superiority) of Internet-facilitated, computer-assisted treatments relative to 'traditional' in-office-only approaches. The UK's National Health Service now recognizes CCBT (computerized cognitive behavioral therapy) as the preferred method of treatment for mild-to-moderate presentations of anxiety and depression. Applications in psychology and medicine also include such innovations as the \"Virtual Patient\" and other virtual/augmented reality programs which can provide trainees with simulated intake sessions while also providing a means for supplementing clinical supervision.\n\nMany of the current controversies related to e-therapy have arisen in the context of ethical guidelines and considerations. In the U.S. there are special circumstances which impact widespread online services among licensed health/mental health professionals given that each of 50 states has their own licensing and regulatory systems, and for most professions practitioners are limited to practicing 'within their state', with the recipient's location determining 'where the service is received' and spurring ongoing debate about restricted access and antiquity of the license system. But the applications and research expand at a rapid rate, and areas of research, practice, and education within the world of 'psychotherapy' have been exploding – especially with all of the research and experience demonstrating the value of technology/Internet assisted applications.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3709405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3709405", "title": "Dame school", "text": "Dame school\n\nA dame school was an early form of a private elementary school in English-speaking countries. They were usually taught by women and were often located in the home of the teacher.\n\nDame schools were small, private schools run by working class women and occasionally men in their own homes. References to dame schools can be found from the 16th century onward.\n\nDame schools often had a poor reputation and were often seen as a cheap form of daycare. The London inspector of the British and Foreign School Society in 1838 wrote that \"in the dame schools they cannot teach reading.\"\n\nIn 1861 the Newcastle Commission reported:\n\nThe number of children whose names ought (in summer 1858 in England and Wales) to have been on the school books, in order that all might receive some education, was 2,655,767. The number we found to be actually on the books was 2,535,462, thus leaving 120,305 children without any school instruction whatever.\n\nThey looked at the previous year's data and found that 2,213,694 children of the poorer classes were in elementary day schools. But of this number: \n\nMost dame schools largely closed with the implementation of the 1870 Elementary Education Act. \n\n\nIn North America, \"dame school\" is a broad term for a private school with a female teacher during the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. The education provided by these schools ranged from basic to exceptional. The basic type of dame school was more common in New England, where basic literacy was expected of all classes, than in the southern colonies, where there were fewer educated women willing to be teachers.\n\nMotivated by the religious needs of Puritan society and their own economic needs, some colonial women in 17th century rural New England opened small, private schools in their homes to teach reading and catechism to young children. An education in reading and religion was required for children by the Massachusetts School Law of 1642. This law was later strengthened by the famous Old Deluder Satan Act. According to Puritan beliefs, Satan would assuredly try to keep people from understanding the Scriptures, therefore it was deemed that all children be taught how to read. Dame schools fulfilled this requirement if parents were unable to educate their young children in their own home. For a small fee, women, often housewives or widows, offered to take in children to whom she would teach a little writing, reading, basic prayers and religious beliefs. These women received \"tuition\" in coin, home industries, alcohol, baked goods and other valuables. Teaching materials generally included, and often did not exceed, a hornbook, primer, Psalter and Bible. Both girls and boys were provided education through the dame school system. Dame schools generally focused on the four R's of education-\"Riting, Reading, Rithmetic, and Religion\". In addition to primary education, girls in dame schools might also learn sewing, embroidery, and other \"graces\". Most girls received their only formal education from dame schools because of sex-segregated education in common or public schools during the colonial period. If their parents could afford it, after attending a dame school for a rudimentary education in reading, colonial boys moved on to grammar schools where a male teacher taught advanced arithmetic, writing, Latin and Greek.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, some dame schools offered boys and girls from wealthy families a \"polite education\". The women running these elite dame schools taught \"reading, writing, English, French, arithmetic, music and dancing\". Schools for upper-class girls were usually called\n\"female seminaries\", \"finishing schools\" etc. rather than \"dame schools\".\n\nThe first known school in Australia was founded in Sydney in 1789 by Isabella Rossen. The second known school in Australia was founded by Mary Johnson in Paramatta in 1791. Both women were convicts supervised by clergyman Rev. Richard Johnson. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "47761177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47761177", "title": "Dataveillance", "text": "Dataveillance\n\nDataveillance is the practice of monitoring and collecting online data as well as metadata. The word is a portmanteau of data and surveillance. Dataveillance is concerned with the continuous monitoring of users' communications and actions across various platforms. For instance, dataveillance refers to the monitoring of data resulting from credit card transactions, GPS coordinates, emails, social networks, etc. Using digital media often leaves traces of data and creates a digital footprint of our activity. This type of surveillance is not often known and happens discreetly. Unlike sousveillance, where individuals willingly reveal their activity, dataveillance is more discrete and unknown. Dataveillance may involve the surveillance of groups of individuals. There exist three types of dataveillance: \"personal dataveillance, mass dataveillance,\" and \"facilitiative mechanisms\".\n\nUnlike computer and network surveillance, which collects data from computer networks and hard drives, dataveillance monitors and collects data (and metadata) through social networks and various other online platforms. Dataveillance is not to be confused with electronic surveillance. Electronic surveillance refers to the surveillance of oral and audio systems such as wire tapping. Additionally, electronic surveillance depends on having suspects already presumed before surveillance can occur. On the other hand, dataveillance can use data to identify an individual or a group. Oftentimes, these individuals and groups have sparked some form of suspicion with their activity.\n\nThe types of dataveillance are separated by the way data is collected, as well as the number of being individuals associated with it.\n\nPersonal Dataveillance: Personal dataveillance refers to the collection and monitoring of a person's personal data. Personal dataveillance can occur when an individual's data causes a suspicion or has attracted attention in some way. Personal data can include information such as birth date, address, social security (or social insurance) number, as well as other unique identifiers.\n\nMass Dataveillance: Refers to the collection of data on groups of people. The general distinction between mass dataveillance and personal dataveillance is the surveillance and collection of data as a group rather than an individual.\n\nFacilitative Mechanisms: Unlike mass dataveillance a group is not targeted. An individual's data is placed into a system or database along with various others where computer matching can unveil distinct patterns. An individuals data is never considered to part of a group in this instance.\n\nThere are many concerns and benefits associated with dataveillance. Dataveillance can be useful for collecting and verifying data in ways that are beneficial. For instance, personal dataveillance can be utilized by financial institutions to track fraudulent purchases on credit card accounts. This has the potential to prevent and regulate fraudulent financial claims and resolve the issue.\n\nComparing to traditional methods of surveillance, dataveillance tends to be an economical approach, since it can help monitor more information in a less amount of time. In this case, the responsibility of monitoring is transferred to computers, therefore reducing time and human labors in the process of surveilling.\n\nDataveillance has also been useful in assessing security threats associated with terrorism. Authorities have utilized dataveillance to help them understand and predict potential terrorist or criminal threats. Dataveillance is very important to the concept of predictive policing. Since predictive policing requires a great deal of data to operate effectively and dataveillance can do just that. Predictive policing allows police to intervene in potential crimes to create safer communities and better understand potential threats.\n\nBusinesses also rely on dataveillance to help them understand the online activity for potential clients by tracking their online activity. By tracking their online activity through cookies, as well as various other methods, businesses are able to better understand what sort of advertisements work with their existing and potential clients. While making online transactions users often give away their information freely which is later used by the company for corporate or private interests. For businesses this information can help boost sales and attract attention towards their products to help generate revenue.\n\nOn the other hand, there are many concerns that arise with dataveillance. Dataveillance assumes that our technologies and data are a true reflection of ourselves. This presents itself as a potential concern given that it can be believed that our data is true to our own actions and behaviours . This becomes a critical concern when associated with the surveillance of criminal suspects and terrorist groups. Authorities who monitor these suspects would then assume that the data they have collected reflects their actions. This helps to understand potential or past threats for criminals as well.\n\nThere is also the lack of transparency and privacy with companies who collect and share their user's data. This is a critical issue with both the trust and belief of the data and its uses. Many social networks have argued that their user's forfeit part of their privacy in order to provide their service for free. Several of these companies choose not to fully disclose what data is collected and who it is shared with. When data is volunteered to companies it is difficult to know what companies have gain data about you and your online activity. Much of an individual's data is shared with websites and social networks in order to provide a more customized marketing experience. Many of those social networks may share your information with intelligent agencies and authorities without a user's knowledge. Since the recent scandal involving Edward Snowden and National Security Agency it has been revealed that authorities may have access to more data from various devices and platforms. It has become very difficult to know what will happen with your data or what specifically has been collected. It is also important to recognize that while online users are worried about their information many of those same worries are not always applied to their activities or behavior. With social networks collecting a large amount of personal data such as birth date, legal name, sex, and photos there is an issue of dataveillance compromising confidentiality. Ultimately, dataveillance can comprise online anonymity.\n\nDespite dataveillance compromising anonymity, anonymity itself presents a crucial issue. Online criminals who steal users' data and information may exploit it for their own gain. Tactics used by online users to conceal their identity make it difficult for others to track the criminal behavior and lay claim to those responsible. Having unique identifiers such as IP addresses allows for the identification of users actions, which are often used to track illegal online activity such as piracy.\n\nWhile dataveillance may help businesses market their products to existing and potential clients there are concerns over how and who has access to customer data. When visiting a business's website often install cookies onto users' devices. Cookies have been a new way for businesses to obtain data on potential customers since it allows them to track their online activities. Companies may also look to sell information they have collected on their clients to third parties. Since clients are not notified about these transactions it becomes difficult to know where your data has been sold. Furthermore, since dataveillance is discrete clients are very unlikely to know the exact nature of the data that has been either collected or sold. Education on tracking tools such as cookies presents a critical issue. If businesses or online services are unwilling to define cookies or educate their users as to why they used many may unwillingly accept them.\n\nThe issue stemming from companies and other agencies which collect personal data and information is that they have now engaged in the practices of data brokering. Data brokers, such as Acxiom, collect users; information and are known for often selling that information to third parties. While companies may disclose that they are collecting data or online activity from their users it is usually not comprehensible by everyday users. It is difficult for everyday people to spot this disclosure since it is hidden by jargon and writing most often understood by lawyers. This is now becoming a new source of revenue for companies.\n\nIn terms of predictive policing, the proper use of crime data and the combination of offline practices and technology have also become the challenges for police institutions. Too much reliance on the result brought up by big data may lead to the subjective judgement of police, and may reduce the amount of real-time on site communication between local police officers and residents in particular areas, thus decreasing the opportunity for the police to investigate and cruise in local communities at a frequent basis. Secondly, data security still remains to be a huge dilemma, considering the access to crime data and the potential use of these data for negative purposes. Last but not least, discrimination towards certain community might be developed due to the findings of data analysis, which could lead to improper behaviours or over-reaction of surveillance.\n\nOne of the major issues with dataveillance is the removal of a human actors who are replaced by computer system that oversee data and construct a representation from it. The removal of human actors can allow for false representations to be created based on the data that has been collected and surveilled. This is largely due to the lack of logical reasoning present within data. Computer systems can only use the data they have, which is not necessarily an accurate depiction of individuals or their situations. Dataveillance is highly automated through computer systems which observe our interactions and activities. High automated systems and technology eliminates human understanding of our activities. \nWith such an increase in data collection and surveillance many individuals are now attempting to reduce the concerns that have alongside it. Countersurveillance is perhaps the most significant concept focused on the tactics to prevent dataveillance. There are various tools associated with the concept that of countersurveillance that disrupt the effectiveness and possibilities of dataveillance.\n\nPrivacy-enhancing technologies, otherwise known as PETs, have been utilized by individuals to reduce data collection and decrease the possibility for dataveillance. PETs, such as adblocker, attempt to prevent other actors from collecting users data. In the case of adblock, the web browser extension is able to prevent the display of advertisements, which disrupts data collection about users online interactions. For businesses that may limit their opportunity to provide online users with tailored advertisements. \n\nRecently, the European Union demanded companies to indicate that their website uses cookies. This law has become basic practice by many online services and companies, however, education on tracking tools with the general public differs and therefore can prevent the effectiveness of this sort of ruling. However, many companies are launching new PETs initiatives within their products. For example, Mozilla's Firefox Focus in pre-enabled with customizable privacy features, which allows for better online privacy. A few of the tools featured in Firefox Focus are also mimicked by other web browsers such as Apple's Safari. Some of the various tools featured with these web browsers are the capabilities to block ads and remove cookie data and history. Private browsing, otherwise known as Incognito for Google Chrome users, allows users to browse the web with having their history or cookies saved. These tools help to curve dataveillance by disrupting the collection and analysis of users' data. While several other web browsers may not pre-enable these PETs within their software users can download the same tools, like adblocker, through their browser's web store such as the Google Chrome Web Store. Many of these extensions help enable better privacy tools. \n\nSocial networks, such as Facebook, have introduced new security measures to help users protect their online data. Users can block their posts and other information on their account other than their name and profile picture. While this doesn't necessarily prevent data tracking these tools have helped to keep users data more private and less accessible for online criminals to exploit.\n\n"}
{"id": "26057624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26057624", "title": "Dush-toh", "text": "Dush-toh\n\nA dush-toh, also spelled dush-too, dush-tooh, or dush-tuh, is a customary Caddo hair ornament worn by girls and women during dances, particularly the Turkey Dance. Neighboring tribes, such as the Kickapoo and Delaware, have similar women's hair ornaments.\n\nA dush-toh consists of an embellished, butterfly- or hourglass-shaped frame that is worn on the back of the head with ribbons that flow down the back, almost to the ground. They were made in the 19th and 20th centuries, as well as into the present.\n\nThe top of butterfly-shaped frame is typically 4.25 inches wide and the bottom is usually 4-5/8 inches wide. The frame is 7.5 inches tall. The frame can be covered in black felt and edged with colored ribbons on both sides. Further embellishments include white seed beads sewn along the edges and silver studs placed according to the individual's preference. A silver band runs around the narrowest point of the frame, which is tied to the hair. A wooden hairpin can also be used to hold the dush-toh in place. German silver spots can be attached to the frame and beaded rosettes may be used to decorate the center of the frame.\n\nThe ribbons, usually of watered silk, are attached to the bottom of the headpiece. Four layers of ribbons are typically sewn to one ribbon band, which is sewn to the felt on the frame. Ribbons can be solid colors or plaid. They run down the back to the hemline of the dancer's dress. Bells, or \"cai'-coo-tze\", can be sewn to the bottom for weight and a musical sound. Ribbons can be embellished with shell, mirrors, German silver medallions, or beadwork rosettes.\n\nThe Caddo Nation offers classes in making dush-tohs to Caddo youth during their annual summer camp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14234296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14234296", "title": "E-learning (theory)", "text": "E-learning (theory)\n\nE-learning theory describes the cognitive science principles of effective multimedia learning using electronic educational technology. \n\nBeginning with cognitive load theory as their motivating scientific premise, researchers such as Richard E. Mayer, John Sweller, and Roxana Moreno established within the scientific literature a set of multimedia instructional design principles that promote effective learning. Many of these principles have been \"field tested\" in everyday learning settings and found to be effective there as well. The majority of this body of research has been performed using university students given relatively short lessons on technical concepts with which they held low prior knowledge. However, David Roberts has tested the method with students in nine social science disciplines including sociology, politics and business studies. His longitudinal research programme over 3 years established a clear improvement in levels of student engagement and in the development of active learning principles among students exposed to a combination of images and text, over students exposed only to text. A number of other studies have shown these principles to be effective with learners of other ages and with non-technical learning content. \n\nResearch using learners who have greater prior knowledge in the lesson material sometimes finds results that contradict these design principles. This has led some researchers to put forward the \"expertise effect\" as an instructional design principle unto itself.\n\nThe underlying theoretical premise, cognitive load theory, describes the amount of mental effort that is related to performing a task as falling into one of three categories: germane, intrinsic, and extraneous. Germane cognitive load is the mental effort required to process the task's information, make sense of it, and access and/or store it in long-term memory (for example, seeing a math problem, identifying the values and operations involved, and understanding that your task is to solve the math problem). Intrinsic cognitive load is the mental effort required to perform the task itself (for example, actually solving the math problem). Extraneous cognitive load is the mental effort imposed by the way that the task is delivered, which may or may not be efficient (for example, finding the math problem you are supposed to solve on a page that also contains advertisements for books about math).\n\nThe multimedia instructional design principles identified by Mayer, Sweller, Moreno, and their colleagues are largely focused on minimizing extraneous cognitive load and managing intrinsic and germane loads at levels that are appropriate for the learner. Examples of these principles in practice include \n\nCognitive load theory (and by extension many of the multimedia instructional design principles) is based in part on a model of working memory by Alan Baddeley and Graham Hitch who proposed that working memory has two largely independent, limited capacity sub-components that tend to work in parallel – one visual and one verbal/acoustic. This gave rise to dual-coding theory, first proposed by Allan Paivio and later applied to multimedia learning by Richard Mayer. According to Mayer, separate channels of working memory process auditory and visual information during any lesson. Consequently, a learner can use more cognitive processing capacities to study materials that combine auditory verbal information with visual graphical information than to process materials that combine printed (visual) text with visual graphical information. In other words, the multi-modal materials reduce the cognitive load imposed on working memory.\n\nIn a series of studies, Mayer and his colleagues tested Paivio's dual-coding theory, with multimedia lesson materials. They repeatedly found that students given multimedia with animation and narration consistently did better on transfer questions than those who learn from animation and text-based materials. That is, they were significantly better when it came to applying what they had learned after receiving multimedia rather than mono-media (visual only) instruction. These results were then later confirmed by other groups of researchers.\n\nThe initial studies of multimedia learning were limited to logical scientific processes that centered on cause-and-effect systems like automobile braking systems, how a bicycle pump works or cloud formation. However, subsequent investigations found that the modality effect extended to other areas of learning.\n\n\n\nSuch principles may not apply outside of laboratory conditions. For example, Muller found that adding approximately 50% additional extraneous but interesting material did not result in any significant difference in learner performance. There is ongoing debate concerning the mechanisms underlying these beneficial principles, and on what boundary conditions may apply.\n\nGood pedagogical practice has a theory of learning at its core. However, no single best-practice e-learning standard has emerged. This may be unlikely given the range of learning and teaching styles, the potential ways technology can be implemented and the ways in which educational technology itself is changing. Various pedagogical approaches or learning theories may be considered in designing and interacting with e-learning programs.\n\nSocial-constructivist – this pedagogy is particularly well afforded by the use of discussion forums, blogs, wiki and online collaborative activities. It is a collaborative approach that opens educational content creation to a wider group including the students themselves. The One Laptop Per Child Foundation attempted to use a constructivist approach in its project.\n\nLaurillard's conversational model is also particularly relevant to eLearning, and Gilly Salmon's Five-Stage Model is a pedagogical approach to the use of discussion boards.\n\nCognitive perspective focuses on the cognitive processes involved in learning as well as how the brain works.\n\nEmotional perspective focuses on the emotional aspects of learning, like motivation, engagement, fun, etc.\n\nBehavioural perspective focuses on the skills and behavioural outcomes of the learning process. Role-playing and application to on-the-job settings.\n\nContextual perspective focuses on the environmental and social aspects which can stimulate learning. Interaction with other people, collaborative discovery and the importance of peer support as well as pressure.\n\nMode neutral Convergence or promotion of ‘transmodal’ learning where online and classroom learners can coexist within one learning environment thus encouraging interconnectivity and the harnessing of collective intelligence.\n\nFor many theorists, it’s the interaction between student and teacher and student and student in the online environment that enhances learning (Mayes and de Freitas 2004). Pask’s theory that learning occurs through conversations about a subject which in turn helps to make knowledge explicit has an obvious application to learning within a VLE.\n\nSalmon developed a five-stage model of e-learning and e-moderating that for some time has had a major influence where online courses and online discussion forums have been used. In her five-stage model, individual access and the ability of students to use the technology are the first steps to involvement and achievement. The second step involves students creating an identity online and finding others with whom to interact; online socialisation is a critical element of the e-learning process in this model. In step 3 students are giving and sharing information relevant to the course to each other. Collaborative interaction amongst students is central to step 4. The fifth step in Salmon’s model involves students looking for benefits from the system and using resources from outside of it to deepen their learning. Throughout all of this, the tutor/teacher/lecturer fulfils the role of moderator or e-moderator, acting as a facilitator of student learning.\n\nSome criticism is now beginning to emerge. Her model does not easily transfer to other contexts (she developed it with experience from an Open University distance learning course). It ignores the variety of learning approaches that are possible within computer mediated communication (CMC) and the range of learning theories that are available (Moule 2007).\n\nSelf-regulated learning refers to several concepts that play major roles in learning, and which have significant relevance in e-learning. Zimmerman (1998) explains that in order to develop self-regulation, learning courses should offer opportunities for students to practice strategies and skills by themselves. Self-regulation is also strongly related to a student's social sources such as parents and teachers. Moreover, Steinberg (1996) found that high-achieving students usually have high-expectation parents who monitor their children closely.\n\nWith the academic environment, self-regulated learners usually set their academic goals and monitor and react themselves in process in order to achieve their goals. Schunk argues, \"students must regulate not only their actions but also their underlying achievement-related cognitions, beliefs, intentions and effects\"(p. 359). Moreover, academic self-regulation also helps students develop confidence in their ability to perform well in e-learning courses.\n\nE-learning literature identifies an ecology of concepts, from a bibliometric study were identified the most used concepts associated with the use of computers in learning contexts, e.g. computer assisted instruction (CAI), computer assisted learning (CAL), computer-based education (CBE), e-learning, learning management systems (LMS), self-directed learning (SDL), and massive open online courses (MOOC). All these concepts have two aspects in common: learning and computers; except the SDL concept, which derives from psychology, and does not necessarily apply to computer usage. These concepts are yet to be studied in scientific research, and stand in contrast to MOOCs. Nowadays, e-learning can also mean massive distribution of content and global classes for all the Internet users. E-learning studies can be focused on three principal dimensions: users, technology, and services. According to Aparicio, Bacao & Oliveira \"The e-learning systems' theoretical framework contains the three main components of information systems. These components are people, technologies, and services. People interact with e-learning systems. E-learning technologies enable the direct or indirect interaction of the different groups of users. Technologies provide support to integrate content, enable communication, and provide collaboration tools. E-learning services integrate all the activities corresponding to pedagogical models and to instructional strategies. The complex interaction combination is the direct or indirect action with e-learning systems. At the same time, systems provide services according to the specified strategies for activities. In other words, service specifications are e-learning activities aligned with the e-learning pedagogical models and the instructional strategies\".\n\nComputing technology was not created by teachers. There has been little consultation between those who promote its use in schools and those who teach with it. Decisions to purchase technology for education are very often political decisions. Most staff using these technologies did not grow up with them. Training teachers to use computer technology did improve their confidence in its use, but there was considerable dissatisfaction with training content and style of delivery. The communication element, in particular, was highlighted as the least satisfactory part of the training, by which many teachers meant the use of a VLE and discussion forums to deliver online training (Leask 2002). Technical support for online learning, lack of access to hardware, poor monitoring of teacher progress and a lack of support by online tutors were just some of the issues raised by the asynchronous online delivery of training (Davies 2004).\n\nNewer generation web 2.0 services provide customizable, inexpensive platforms for authoring and disseminating multimedia-rich e-learning courses, and do not need specialised information technology (IT) support.\n\nPedagogical theory may have application in encouraging and assessing online participation. Assessment methods for on-line participation have reviewed.\n\n"}
{"id": "187269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187269", "title": "Extinct language", "text": "Extinct language\n\nAn extinct language is a language that no longer has any speakers, especially if the language has no living descendants. In contrast, a dead language is \"one that is no longer the native language of any community\", even if it is still in use, like Latin. Languages that currently have living native speakers are sometimes called modern languages to contrast them with dead languages, especially in educational contexts.\n\nIn the modern period, languages have typically become extinct as a result of the process of cultural assimilation leading to language shift, and the gradual abandonment of a native language in favour of a foreign \"lingua franca\", largely those of European countries.\n\nAs of the 2000s, a total of roughly 7,000 natively spoken languages existed worldwide. Most of these are minor languages in danger of extinction; one estimate published in 2004 expected that some 90% of the currently spoken languages will have become extinct by 2050.\n\nNormally the transition from a spoken to an extinct language occurs when a language undergoes language death by being directly replaced by a different one. For example, many Native American languages were replaced by English, French, Portuguese, Spanish or Dutch as a result of colonization.\n\nIn contrast to an extinct language, which no longer has any speakers, or any written use, a historical language may remain in use as a literary or liturgical language long after it ceases to be spoken natively. Such languages are sometimes also referred to as \"dead languages\", but more typically as classical languages. The most prominent Western example of such a language is Latin, but comparable cases are found throughout world history due to the universal tendency to retain an historical stage of a language as liturgical language.\n\nHistorical languages with living descendants that have undergone significant language change may be considered \"extinct\", especially in cases where they did not leave a corpus of literature or liturgy that remained in widespread use (see corpus language), as is the case with e.g. Old English or Old High German relative to their contemporary descendants, English and German.\n\nSome degree of misunderstanding can result from designating languages such as Old English and Old High German as extinct, or Latin dead, while ignoring their evolution as a language. This is expressed in the apparent paradox \"Latin is a dead language, but Latin never died.\" A language such as Etruscan, for example, can be said to be both extinct and dead: inscriptions are ill understood even by the most knowledgeable scholars, and the language ceased to be used in any form long ago, so that there have been no speakers, native or non-native, for many centuries. In contrast, Old English, Old High German and Latin never ceased evolving as living languages, nor did they become totally extinct as Etruscan did. Through time Latin underwent both common and divergent changes in phonology, morphology, syntax and lexicon and continues today as the native language of hundreds of millions of people, renamed as different Romance languages and dialects (French, Italian, Spanish, Corsican, Asturian, Ladin, etc.). Similarly, Old English and Old High German never died, but developed into various forms of modern English and German. With regard to the written language, skills in reading or writing Etruscan are all but non-existent, but trained people can understand and write Old English, Old High German and Latin. Latin differs from the Germanic counterparts in that an approximation of its ancient form is still employed to some extent liturgically. This last observation illustrates that for Latin, Old English, or Old High German to be described accurately as dead or extinct, the language in question must be conceptualized as frozen in time at a particular state of its history. This is accomplished by periodizing English and German as Old; for Latin, the most apt clarifying adjective is Classical, which also normally includes designation of high or formal register.\n\nMinor languages are endangered mostly due to economic and cultural globalization and development. \nWith increasing economic integration on national and regional scales, people find it easier to communicate and conduct business in the dominant lingua francas of world commerce: English, Chinese, Spanish and French.\n\nIn their study of contact-induced language change, American linguists Sarah Grey Thomason and Terrence Kaufman (1991) stated that in situations of cultural pressure (where populations are forced to speak a dominant language), three linguistic outcomes may occur: first - and most commonly - a subordinate population may shift abruptly to the dominant language, leaving the native language to a sudden linguistic death. Second, the more gradual process of language death may occur over several generations. The third and most rare outcome is for the pressured group to maintain as much of its native language as possible, while borrowing elements of the dominant language's grammar (replacing all, or portions of, the grammar of the original language).\n\nInstitutions such as the education system, as well as (often global) forms of media such as the Internet, television, and print media play a significant role in the process of language loss. For example, when people migrate to a new country, their children attend school in the country, and the schools are likely to teach them in the majority language of the country rather than their parents' native language.\n\nLanguage revival is the attempt to re-introduce a recently extinct language in everyday use by a new generation of native speakers. \nThe optimistic neologism \"sleeping beauty languages\" has been used to express such a hope.\n\nHebrew is an example of a liturgical language that has successfully been revived for everyday use. The revival of Hebrew has been largely successful due to extraordinarily favourable conditions, notably the creation of a nation state in which it became the official language, as well as Eliezer Ben-Yehuda's extreme dedication to the revival of the language, by creating new words for the modern terms Hebrew lacked. Revival attempts for minor languages with no status as liturgical language typically have more modest results. The Cornish language revival is an example of a major successful language revival: after a century of effort there are 3,500 claimed native speakers; enough for UNESCO to change its classification from \"extinct\" to \"critically endangered\".\n\nThis is a list of languages reported as having become extinct after the year 2000.\nFor a more complete list, see List of extinct languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "10657251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10657251", "title": "Galgano Guidotti", "text": "Galgano Guidotti\n\nSaint Galgano (1148 – December 3, 1181) was a Catholic saint from Tuscany born in Chiusdino, in the modern province of Siena, Italy. His mother's name was Dionigia, while his father's name (Guido or Guidotto) only appeared in a document dated in the 16th century, when the last name Guidotti was attributed.\n\nThe canonization process to declare Galgano a saint started in 1185, only a few years after his death, and his canonization was the first conducted with a formal process by the Roman Church. A lot of Saint Galgano's life is known through the documents of the canonization process in 1185 and other \"Vitae: Legenda beati Galgani\" by anonymous, \"Legenda beati Galgani confessoris\" by an unknown Cistercian monk, \"Leggenda di Sancto Galgano\", \"Vita sancti Galgani de Senis\", \"Vita beati Galgani\".\n\nGalgano is said to have led a ruthless life in his early years, but later abandoned it in favour of a pious hermitage in the place now known as Rotonda di Montesiepi. His mother, Dionigia, is believed to have reported that Galgano had two visions, both involving Archangel Michael: in the first vision the Archangel told Galgano that he was going to be protected by the Archangel himself. In the second vision, Galgano was following the Archangel and they arrived to the hill of Montesiepi where they met the twelve Apostles and the Creator himself. After the visions, it is said that Galgano's horse refused to obey his orders and led him on top Montesiepi where his vision happened. Convinced that this was a sign, Galgano decided to plant a cross. Since he had no way to make one of wood, he planted his sword in the ground. The sword is said to have immediately become one piece with the ground so that nobody could remove it. A story says that in one of the visions, he was told to renounce material things. He, stating that it would be as hard as splitting a rock, decided to make his point by attempting to plunge his sword into one. The story goes on saying that the \"stone yielded like butter\".\nA round church was built over the purported tomb, where pilgrims came in large numbers and miracles were claimed. In that year Cistercian monks took over Montesiepi at the request of Hugh, bishop of Volterra, but most of Galgano's monks left, scattered over Tuscany, and became Augustinian hermits. By 1220 a large Cistercian monastery was built below Galgano's hermitage: they then claimed him as a Cistercian saint. His cult was lively in Siena and Volterra, where numerous representations survive. The ruins of his hermitage can still be seen, while his cloak is kept in the church of Santuccio at Siena.\n\nThe sword in the stone can be seen at the Rotonda at Montesiepi, near the ruins of the Abbey of San Galgano. The handle of a sword protrudes from the ground, and is said to be the sword of San Galgano. An analysis of the metal done in 2001 by prof. Garlaschelli confirmed that the \"composition of the metal and the style are compatible with the era of the legend\". The analysis also confirmed that the upper piece and the invisible lower one are authentic and belong to one and the same artifact.\n\n"}
{"id": "11964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11964", "title": "Genus–differentia definition", "text": "Genus–differentia definition\n\nA genus–differentia definition is a type of intensional definition, and it is composed of two parts:\n\nFor example, consider these two definitions:\nThose definitions can be expressed as one genus and two \"differentiae\":\n\nThe process of producing new definitions by \"extending\" existing definitions is commonly known as differentiation (and also as derivation). The reverse process, by which just part of an existing definition is used itself as a new definition, is called abstraction; the new definition is called \"an abstraction\" and it is said to have been \"abstracted away from\" the existing definition.\n\nFor instance, consider the following:\nA part of that definition may be singled out (using parentheses here):\nand with that part, an abstraction may be formed:\nThen, the definition of \"a square\" may be recast with that abstraction as its genus:\n\nSimilarly, the definition of \"a square\" may be rearranged and another portion singled out:\nleading to the following abstraction:\nThen, the definition of \"a square\" may be recast with that abstraction as its genus:\n\nIn fact, the definition of \"a square\" may be recast in terms of both of the abstractions, where one acts as the genus and the other acts as the differentia:\nHence, abstraction is crucial in simplifying definitions.\n\nWhen multiple definitions could serve equally well, then all such definitions apply simultaneously. Thus, \"a square\" is a member of both the genus \"[a] rectangle\" and the genus \"[a] rhombus\". In such a case, it is notationally convenient to consolidate the definitions into one definition that is expressed with multiple genera (and possibly no differentia, as in the following):\nor completely equivalently:\n\nMore generally, a collection of formula_1 equivalent definitions (each of which is expressed with one unique genus) can be recast as one definition that is expressed with formula_2 genera. Thus, the following:\ncould be recast as:\n\nA genus of a definition provides a means by which to specify an \"is-a relationship\":\nThe non-genus portion of the differentia of a definition provides a means by which to specify a \"has-a relationship\":\n\nWhen a system of definitions is constructed with genera and differentiae, the definitions can be thought of as nodes forming a hierarchy or—more generally—a directed acyclic graph; a node that has no predecessor is \"a most general definition\"; each node along a directed path is \"more differentiated (or \"more derived) than any one of its predecessors, and a node with no successor is \"a most differentiated\" (or \"a most derived\") definition.\n\nWhen a definition, \"S\", is the tail of each of its successors (that is, \"S\" has at least one successor and each direct successor of \"S\" is a most differentiated definition), then \"S\" is often called \"the species of each of its successors, and each direct successor of \"S\" is often called \"an individual (or \"an entity\") of the species \"S\"; that is, the genus of an individual is synonymously called \"the species\" of that individual. Furthermore, the differentia of an individual is synonymously called \"the identity\" of that individual. For instance, consider the following definition:\nIn this case:\n\nAs in that example, the identity itself (or some part of it) is often used to refer to the entire individual, a phenomenon that is known in linguistics as a \"pars pro toto synecdoche\".\n"}
{"id": "618579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=618579", "title": "Glass-bottom boat", "text": "Glass-bottom boat\n\nA glass-bottom boat is a boat with one or more sections of glass, or other suitable transparent material, below the waterline allowing passengers to observe the underwater environment from within the boat. When a boat is a glass bottom, the view through is better than simply looking into the water from above, because one does not have to look through optically erratic surface disturbances. The effect is similar to that achieved by a diving mask, while the passengers are able to stay dry, out of the water.\n\nGlass bottom boats are used almost exclusively for giving tours, as they are usually designed to allow the maximum number of tourists to view out the glass bottom and are not really suitable for other uses. \nGlass bottom boats are in use in nearly every seaside tourist destination. However many of them are gradually being replaced by semi submarines, which offer a better view of the marine life.\n\nGlass bottom boats were first used near Santa Catalina Island off the coast of Southern California. They also became popular in Florida at several areas of natural springs that became tourist attractions, for example, Silver Springs, Wakulla Springs, Rainbow Springs, and Weeki Wachee Springs. The oldest glass bottom boat ('Princess Donna' 1934) from Silver Springs is still operating on the Homosassa River in Florida. \n\nThe most modern glass bottom boats have ultra-durable bottom window shaped as an optically regular spheroid which size is 2x3 m. These boats also have a hydrofoil. This is a contemporary product of Russian boatbuilding company - Paritetboat [1]. \n\nTypical tours in these boats include views of underwater flora and fauna, reefs, shipwrecks, and other underwater sights.\n\n\n2. Modern Glass bottom boats by Paritetboat \n"}
{"id": "35565855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35565855", "title": "Gyōdō", "text": "Gyōdō\n\nThe term \"gyōdō\" may be used to refer to three distinct ceremonies: ritual circumambulation of temple buildings or images while chanting sutras; masked processions during memorial services; and, in Pure Land Buddhism, reenactments of the descent of Amida. Gyōdō ceremonies still take place annually on May 14 at Taima-dera, where they are also known as or .\n\nSurviving masks include a pair of masks dating from 1086 and 1334 at Tōdai-ji (ICP); a set of ten masks dating from 1138 for use in the ceremonies at Hōryū-ji (ICP); thirteen Heian-period masks from (ICP); a Kamakura-period mask of Tamonten at the Tokyo National Museum; a thirteenth-century bodhisattva mask at the British Museum; a Kamakura-period bodhisattva mask at the National Gallery of Victoria; a fifteenth-century example at the Victoria and Albert Museum; and a pre-modern mask at the Smithsonian Institution. A late-Heian Taishakuten of uncertain provenance was auctioned by Christie's in 2010 for $20,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2763667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2763667", "title": "History of money", "text": "History of money\n\nThe history of money concerns the development of social systems that provide at least one of the functions of money. Such systems can be understood as means of trading wealth indirectly; not directly as with barter. Money is a mechanism that facilitates this process.\n\nMoney may take a physical form as in coins and notes, or may exist as a written or electronic account. It may have intrinsic value (commodity money), be legally exchangeable for something with intrinsic value (representative money), or only have nominal value (fiat money).\nThe significant evidence establishes many things were bartered in ancient markets that could be described as a medium of exchange. These included livestock and grain – things directly useful in themselves – but also merely attractive items such as cowrie shells or beads were exchanged for more useful commodities. However, such exchanges would be better described as barter, and the common bartering of a particular commodity (especially when the commodity items are not fungible) does not technically make that commodity \"money\" or a \"commodity money\" like the shekel – which was both a coin representing a specific weight of barley, and the weight of that sack of barley.\n\nDue to the complexities of ancient history (ancient civilizations developing at different paces and not keeping accurate records or having their records destroyed), and because the ancient origins of economic systems precede written history, it is impossible to trace the true origin of the invention of money and the transition from \"barter systems\" to the \"monetary systems\". Further, evidence in the histories supports the idea that money has taken two main forms divided into the broad categories of \"money of account\" (debits and credits on ledgers) and \"money of exchange\" (tangible media of exchange made from wood, paper, bamboo, metal, etc.), and it is debated which was created first.\n\nRegarding \"money of account\", the tally stick can reasonably be described as a very primitive ledger – the oldest of which dates to the Aurignacian, about 30,000 years ago. While it may not be reasonable to conclude the most ancient tally sticks were used to keep \"accounting records\" in the \"monetary system\" sense of the term, their existence does show that \"accounting\" – keeping a written record of things counted – is far more ancient than many people assume. David Graeber proposes that money as a unit of account was invented when the unquantifiable obligation \"I owe you one\" transformed into the quantifiable notion of \"I owe you one unit of something\". In this view, money emerged first as credit and only later took the form of a \"medium of exchange\".\n\nRegarding \"money of exchange\", the use of representative money historically pre-dates the invention of coinage. In the ancient empires of Egypt, Babylon, India and China, the temples and palaces often had commodity warehouses which issued certificates of deposit as evidence of a claim upon a portion of the goods stored in the warehouses. Because these \"claim tickets\" could be redeemed at the warehouse for the commodity they represented, they were able to be bartered in the markets as if they were the commodity.\n\nWhile not the oldest form of \"money of exchange\", various metals (both common and precious metals) were also used in both barter systems and monetary systems and the historical use of metals provides some of the clearest illustration of how the barter systems gave birth to monetary systems. The Romans' use of bronze, while not among the more ancient examples is well documented, and it illustrates this transition clearly. First, the \"aes rude\" (rough bronze) was used. This was a heavy weight of unmeasured bronze used in what was properly a barter system—the barter-ability of the bronze was related exclusively to its usefulness in blacksmithing and it was bartered with the intent of being turned into tools. The next historical step was bronze in bars that had a 5-pound pre-measured weight (presumably to make barter easier and more fair), called \"aes signatum\" (signed bronze), which is where debate arises between if this is still the barter system or now a monetary system. Finally, there is a clear break from the use of bronze in barter into its undebatable use as money because of lighter measures of bronze not intended to be used as anything other than coinage for transactions. The aes grave (heavy bronze) (or \"As\") is the start of the use of coins in Rome, but not the oldest known example metal coinage.\n\nThe invention of money took place before the beginning of written history. Consequently any story of how money first developed is largely based on conjecture and logical inference. The earliest ideas included Aristotle's \"metallist\" and Plato's \"cartalist\" concepts, which Joseph Schumpeter integrated into his own theory of money as forms of classification. Specifically, the Austrian economist attempted to develop a catallactic theory of money out of Claim Theory. Schumpeter's theory had several themes but the most important of these involve the notions that money can be analyzed from the viewpoint of social accounting and that it is also firmly connected to the theory of value and price.\n\nThere are at least two theories of what money \"is\" and these can influence the interpretation of historical and archeological evidence of early monetary systems. The commodity theory of money (\"money of exchange\") is preferred by those who wish to view money as a natural outgrowth of market activity. Others view the credit theory of money (\"money of account\") as more plausible and may posit a key role for the state in establishing money. The Commodity theory is more widely held and much of this article is written from that point of view. Overall, the different theories of money developed by economists largely focus on functions, use, and management of money.\n\nIn \"Politics\" Book 1:9 () the Greek philosopher Aristotle contemplated the nature of money. He considered that every object has two uses: the original purpose for which the object was designed, and as an item to sell or barter. The assignment of monetary value to an otherwise insignificant object such as a coin or promissory note arises as people acquired a psychological capacity to place trust in each other and in external authority within barter exchange.\n\nWith barter, an individual possessing any surplus of value, such as a measure of grain or a quantity of livestock, could directly exchange it for something perceived to have similar or greater value or utility, such as a clay pot or a tool. The capacity to carry out barter transactions is limited in that it depends on a coincidence of wants. The seller of food grain has to find the buyer who wants to buy grain and who also could offer in return something the seller wants to buy. There is no agreed standard measure into which both seller and buyer could exchange commodities according to their relative value of all the various goods and services offered by other potential barter partners.\n\nThere is no evidence, historic or contemporary, of a society in which barter is the main mode of exchange.\n\nIn his book \"\", anthropologist David Graeber argues against the suggestion that money was invented to replace barter. The problem with this version of history, he suggests, is the lack of any supporting evidence. His research indicates that \"gift economies\" were common, at least at the beginnings of the first agrarian societies, when humans used elaborate credit systems. Graeber proposes that money as a unit of account was invented the moment when the unquantifiable obligation \"I owe you one\" transformed into the quantifiable notion of \"I owe you one unit of something\". In this view, money emerged first as credit and only later acquired the functions of a medium of exchange and a store of value. Graeber's criticism partly relies on and follows that made by Michell A. Innes in his 1913 pamphlet \"What is money?\". Innes refutes the barter theory of money, by examining historic evidence and showing that early coins never were of consistent value nor of more or less consistent metal content. Therefore he concludes that sales is not exchange of goods for some universal commodity, but an exchange for credit. He argues that \"credit and credit alone is money\". Anthropologist Caroline Humphrey examines the available ethnographic data and concludes that \"No example of a barter economy, pure and simple, has ever been described, let alone the emergence from it of money; all available ethnography suggests that there never has been such a thing\".\n\nIn a gift economy, valuable goods and services are regularly given without any explicit agreement for immediate or future rewards (i.e. there is no formal \"quid pro quo\"). Ideally, simultaneous or recurring giving serves to circulate and redistribute valuables within the community.\n\nThere are various social theories concerning gift economies. Some consider the gifts to be a form of reciprocal altruism. Another interpretation is that implicit \"I owe you\" debt and social status are awarded in return for the \"gifts\". Consider for example, the sharing of food in some hunter-gatherer societies, where food-sharing is a safeguard against the failure of any individual's daily foraging. This custom may reflect altruism, it may be a form of informal insurance, or may bring with it social status or other benefits.\n\nAfter the domestication of cattle and the start of cultivation of crops in 9000–6000 BCE, livestock and plant products were used as money.\n\nIn the earliest instances of trade with money, the things with the greatest utility and reliability in terms of re-use and re-trading (their marketability), determined the nature of the objects chosen to exchange. So as in agricultural societies, things needed for efficient and comfortable employment of energies for the production of cereals and the like were the easiest to transfer to monetary significance for direct exchange. As more of the basic conditions of human existence were met, so the division of labour increased to create new activities for the use of time to address more advanced concerns. As people's needs became more refined, indirect exchange became more likely, as the physical separation of skilled labourers (suppliers) from their prospective clients (demand) required the use of a medium common to all communities, to facilitate a wider market.\n\nAristotle's opinion of the creation of money as a new thing in society is:\n\nMany cultures around the world developed the use of commodity money, that is, objects that have value in themselves as well as value in their use as money. Ancient China, Africa, and India used cowry shells.\n\nThe Mesopotamian civilization developed a large-scale economy based on commodity money. The shekel was the unit of weight and currency, first recorded c. 3000 BCE, referring to a specific weight of barley, and equivalent amounts of silver, bronze, copper etc. The Babylonians and their neighboring city states later developed the earliest system of economics as we think of it today, in terms of rules on debt, legal contracts and law codes relating to business practices and private property. Money was not only an emergence, it was a necessity.\n\nThe Code of Hammurabi, the best-preserved ancient law code, was created c. 1760 BCE (middle chronology) in ancient Babylon. It was enacted by the sixth Babylonian king, Hammurabi. Earlier collections of laws include the code of Ur-Nammu, king of Ur (c. 2050 BCE), the Code of Eshnunna (c. 1930 BCE) and the code of Lipit-Ishtar of Isin (c. 1870 BCE). These law codes formalized the role of money in civil society. They set amounts of interest on debt, fines for \"wrongdoing\", and compensation in money for various infractions of formalized law.\n\nIt has long been assumed that metals, where available, were favored for use as proto-money over such commodities as cattle, cowry shells, or salt, because metals are at once durable, portable, and easily divisible. The use of gold as proto-money has been traced back to the fourth millennium BCE when the Egyptians used gold bars of a set weight as a medium of exchange, as had been done earlier in Mesopotamia with silver bars.\n\nThe first mention in the Bible of the use of money is in the Book of Genesis in reference to criteria for the circumcision of a bought slave. Later, the Cave of Machpelah is purchased (with silver) by Abraham, some time after 1985 BCE. The currency was also in use amongst the Philistine people of the same period.\n\nFrom about 1000 BCE, money in the form of small knives and spades made of bronze was in use in China during the Zhou dynasty, with cast bronze replicas of cowrie shells in use before this. The first manufactured actual coins seem to have appeared separately in India, China, and the cities around the Aegean Sea between 700 and 500 BCE. While these Aegean coins were stamped (heated and hammered with insignia), the Indian coins (from the Ganges river valley) were punched metal disks, and Chinese coins (first developed in the Great Plain) were cast bronze with holes in the center to be strung together. The different forms and metallurgical processes imply a separate development. All modern coins, in turn, are descended from the coins that appear to have been invented in the kingdom of Lydia in Asia Minor somewhere around the year 600 BCE and that spread throughout Greece in the following centuries: disk-shaped, made of gold, silver, bronze or imitations thereof, with both sides bearing an image produced by stamping; one side is often a human head.\n\nThe first ruler in the Mediterranean known to have officially set standards of weight and money was Pheidon. Minting occurred in the late 7th century BCE amongst the Greek cities of Asia Minor, spreading to the Greek islands of the Aegean and to the south of Italy by 500 BCE. The first stamped money (having the mark of some authority in the form of a picture or words) can be seen in the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris. It is an electrum stater of a turtle coin, coined at Aegina island. This coin dates to about 700 BCE.\n\nOther coins made of electrum (a naturally occurring alloy of silver and gold) were manufactured on a larger scale about 650 BCE in Lydia (on the coast of what is now Turkey). Similar coinage was adopted and manufactured to their own standards in nearby cities of Ionia, including Mytilene and Phokaia (using coins of electrum) and Aegina (using silver) during the 6th century BCE, and soon became adopted in mainland Greece, and the Persian Empire (after it incorporated Lydia in 547 BCE).\n\nThe use and export of silver coinage, along with soldiers paid in coins, contributed to the Athenian Empire's dominance of the region in the 5th century BCE. The silver used was mined in southern Attica at Laurium and Thorikos by a huge workforce of slave labour. A major silver vein discovery at Laurium in 483 BCE led to the huge expansion of the Athenian military fleet.\n\nThe worship of Moneta is recorded by Livy with the temple built in the time of Rome 413 (123); a temple consecrated to the same goddess was built in the earlier part of the 4th century (perhaps the same temple). For four centuries the temple contained the mint of Rome. The name of the goddess thus became the source of numerous words in English and the Romance languages, including the words \"money\" and \"mint\".\n\nAssaying is analysis of the chemical composition of metals. The discovery of the touchstone for assaying helped the popularisation of metal-based commodity money and coinage. Any soft metal, such as gold, can be tested for purity on a touchstone. As a result, the use of gold for as commodity money spread from Asia Minor, where it first gained wide usage.\n\nA touchstone allows the amount of gold in a sample of an alloy to been estimated. In turn this allows the alloy's purity to be estimated. This allows coins with a uniform amount of gold to be created. Coins were typically minted by governments and then stamped with an emblem that guaranteed the weight and value of the metal. However, as well as intrinsic value coins had a face value. Sometimes governments would reduce the amount of precious metal in a coin (reducing the intrinsic value) and assert the same face value, this practice is known as debasement.\n\nGold and silver have been the most common forms of money throughout history. In many languages, such as Spanish, French, and Italian, the word for silver is still directly related to the word for money. Sometimes other metals were used. For instance, Ancient Sparta minted coins from iron to discourage its citizens from engaging in foreign trade. In the early 17th century Sweden lacked precious metals, and so produced \"plate money\": large slabs of copper 50 cm or more in length and width, stamped with indications of their value.\n\nGold coins began to be minted again in Europe in the 13th century. Frederick II is credited with having reintroduced gold coins during the Crusades. During the 14th century Europe changed from use of silver in currency to minting of gold. Vienna made this change in 1328.\n\nMetal-based coins had the advantage of carrying their value within the coins themselves – on the other hand, they induced manipulations, such as the clipping of coins to remove some of the precious metal. A greater problem was the simultaneous co-existence of gold, silver and copper coins in Europe. The exchange rates between the metals varied with supply and demand. For instance the gold guinea coin began to rise against the silver crown in England in the 1670s and 1680s. Consequently, silver was exported from England in exchange for gold imports. The effect was worsened with Asian traders not sharing the European appreciation of gold altogether — gold left Asia and silver left Europe in quantities European observers like Isaac Newton, Master of the Royal Mint observed with unease.\n\nStability came when national banks guaranteed to change silver money into gold at a fixed rate; it did, however, not come easily. The Bank of England risked a national financial catastrophe in the 1730s when customers demanded their money be changed into gold in a moment of crisis. Eventually London's merchants saved the bank and the nation with financial guarantees.\n\nAnother step in the evolution of money was the change from a coin being a unit of weight to being a unit of value. A distinction could be made between its commodity value and its \"specie\" value. The difference in these values is seigniorage. \n\nPaper money was introduced in Song Dynasty China during the 11th century. The development of the banknote began in the seventh century, with local issues of paper currency. Its roots were in merchant receipts of deposit during the Tang Dynasty (618–907), as merchants and wholesalers desired to avoid the heavy bulk of copper coinage in large commercial transactions. The issue of credit notes is often for a limited duration, and at some discount to the promised amount later. The jiaozi nevertheless did not replace coins during the Song Dynasty; paper money was used alongside the coins. The central government soon observed the economic advantages of printing paper money, issuing a monopoly right of several of the deposit shops to the issuance of these certificates of deposit. By the early 12th century, the amount of banknotes issued in a single year amounted to an annual rate of 26 million strings of cash coins.\n\nIn the 13th century, paper money became known in Europe through the accounts of travelers, such as Marco Polo and William of Rubruck. Marco Polo's account of paper money during the Yuan Dynasty is the subject of a chapter of his book, \"The Travels of Marco Polo\", titled \".\" In medieval Italy and Flanders, because of the insecurity and impracticality of transporting large sums of money over long distances, money traders started using promissory notes. In the beginning these were personally registered, but they soon became a written order to pay the amount to whomever had it in their possession. These notes can be seen as a predecessor to regular banknotes.\n\nBills of exchange became prevalent with the expansion of European trade toward the end of the Middle Ages. A flourishing Italian wholesale trade in cloth, woolen clothing, wine, tin and other commodities was heavily dependent on credit for its rapid expansion. Goods were supplied to a buyer against a bill of exchange, which constituted the buyer's promise to make payment at some specified future date. Provided that the buyer was reputable or the bill was endorsed by a credible guarantor, the seller could then present the bill to a merchant banker and redeem it in money at a discounted value before it actually became due. The main purpose of these bills nevertheless was, that traveling with cash was particularly dangerous at the time. A deposit could be made with a banker in one town, in turn a bill of exchange was handed out, that could be redeemed in another town.\n\nThese bills could also be used as a form of payment by the seller to make additional purchases from his own suppliers. Thus, the bills – an early form of credit – became both a medium of exchange and a medium for storage of value. Like the loans made by the Egyptian grain banks, this trade credit became a significant source for the creation of new money. In England, bills of exchange became an important form of credit and money during last quarter of the 18th century and the first quarter of the 19th century before banknotes, checks and cash credit lines were widely available.\n\nThe acceptance of symbolic forms of money meant that a symbol could be used to represent something of value that was available in physical storage somewhere else in space, such as grain in the warehouse; or something of value that would be available later, such as a promissory note or bill of exchange, a document ordering someone to pay a certain sum of money to another on a specific date or when certain conditions have been fulfilled.\n\nIn the 12th century, the English monarchy introduced an early version of the bill of exchange in the form of a notched piece of wood known as a tally stick. Tallies originally came into use at a time when paper was rare and costly, but their use persisted until the early 19th century, even after paper money had become prevalent. The notches denoted various amounts of taxes payable to the Crown. Initially tallies were simply a form of receipt to the taxpayer at the time of rendering his dues. As the revenue department became more efficient, they began issuing tallies to denote a promise of the tax assessee to make future tax payments at specified times during the year. Each tally consisted of a matching pair – one stick was given to the assessee at the time of assessment representing the amount of taxes to be paid later, and the other held by the Treasury representing the amount of taxes to be collected at a future date.\n\nThe Treasury discovered that these tallies could also be used to create money. When the Crown had exhausted its current resources, it could use the tally receipts representing future tax payments due to the Crown as a form of payment to its own creditors, who in turn could either collect the tax revenue directly from those assessed or use the same tally to pay their own taxes to the government. The tallies could also be sold to other parties in exchange for gold or silver coin at a discount reflecting the length of time remaining until the tax was due for payment. Thus, the tallies became an accepted medium of exchange for some types of transactions and an accepted store of value. Like the girobanks before it, the Treasury soon realized that it could also issue tallies that were not backed by any specific assessment of taxes. By doing so, the Treasury created new money that was backed by public trust and confidence in the monarchy rather than by specific revenue receipts.\n\nGoldsmiths in England had been craftsmen, bullion merchants, money changers, and money lenders since the 16th century. But they were not the first to act as financial intermediates; in the early 17th century, the scriveners were the first to keep deposits for the express purpose of relending them. Merchants and traders had amassed huge hoards of gold and entrusted their wealth to the Royal Mint for storage. In 1640 King Charles I seized the private gold stored in the mint as a forced loan (which was to be paid back over time). Thereafter merchants preferred to store their gold with the goldsmiths of London, who possessed private vaults, and charged a fee for that service. In exchange for each deposit of precious metal, the goldsmiths issued receipts certifying the quantity and purity of the metal they held as a bailee (i.e., in trust). These receipts could not be assigned (only the original depositor could collect the stored goods). Gradually the goldsmiths took over the function of the scriveners of relending on behalf of a depositor and also developed modern banking practices; promissory notes were issued for money deposited which by custom and/or law was a loan to the goldsmith, i.e., the depositor expressly allowed the goldsmith to use the money for any purpose including advances to his customers. The goldsmith charged no fee, or even paid interest on these deposits. Since the promissory notes were payable on demand, and the advances (loans) to the goldsmith's customers were repayable over a longer time period, this was an early form of fractional reserve banking. The promissory notes developed into an assignable instrument, which could circulate as a safe and convenient form of money backed by the goldsmith's promise to pay. Hence goldsmiths could advance loans in the form of gold money, or in the form of promissory notes, or in the form of checking accounts. Gold deposits were relatively stable, often remaining with the goldsmith for years on end, so there was little risk of default so long as public trust in the goldsmith's integrity and financial soundness was maintained. Thus, the goldsmiths of London became the forerunners of British banking and prominent creators of new money based on credit.\n\nDemand deposits are funds that are deposited in bank accounts and are available for withdrawal at the discretion of the depositor. The withdrawal of funds from the account does not require contacting or making any type of prior arrangements with the bank or credit union. As long as the account balance is sufficient to cover the amount of the withdrawal, and the withdrawal takes place in accordance with procedures set in place by the financial institution, the funds may be withdrawn on demand.\n\nThe first European banknotes were issued by Stockholms Banco, a predecessor of Sweden's central bank Sveriges Riksbank, in 1661. These replaced the copper-plates being used instead as a means of payment, although in 1664 the bank ran out of coins to redeem notes and ceased operating in the same year.\n\nInspired by the success of the London goldsmiths, some of whom became the forerunners of great English banks, banks began issuing paper notes quite properly termed \"banknotes\", which circulated in the same way that government-issued currency circulates today. In England this practice continued up to 1694. Scottish banks continued issuing notes until 1850, and still do issue banknotes backed by Bank of England notes. In the United States, this practice continued through the 19th century; at one time there were more than 5,000 different types of banknotes issued by various commercial banks in America. Only the notes issued by the largest, most creditworthy banks were widely accepted. The scrip of smaller, lesser-known institutions circulated locally. Farther from home it was only accepted at a discounted rate, if at all. The proliferation of types of money went hand in hand with a multiplication in the number of financial institutions.\n\nThese banknotes were a form of representative money which could be converted into gold or silver by application at the bank. Since banks issued notes far in excess of the gold and silver they kept on deposit, sudden loss of public confidence in a bank could precipitate mass redemption of banknotes and result in bankruptcy.\n\nThe use of banknotes issued by private commercial banks as legal tender has gradually been replaced by the issuance of bank notes authorized and controlled by national governments. The Bank of England was granted sole rights to issue banknotes in England after 1694. In the United States, the Federal Reserve Bank was granted similar rights after its establishment in 1913. Until recently, these government-authorized currencies were forms of representative money, since they were partially backed by gold or silver and were theoretically convertible into gold or silver.\n\nThe development of computer technology in the second part of the twentieth century allowed money to be represented digitally. By 1990, in the United States all money transferred between its central bank and commercial banks was in electronic form. By the 2000s most money existed as digital currency in banks databases. In 2012, by number of transaction, 20 to 58 percent of transactions were electronic (dependant on country).\n\nIn 2008, Bitcoin was proposed by an unknown author/s under the pseudonym of Satoshi Nakamoto, it was implemented the same year. Its use of cryptography allowed the currency to have a trustless, fungible and tamper resistant distributed ledger called a blockchain. It became the first widely used decentralized, peer-to-peer, cryptocurrency. Other comparable systems had been proposed since the 1980s. The protocol proposed by Nakamoto solved what is known as the double-spending problem without the need of a trusted third-party.\n\nSince Bitcoin's inception, thousands of other cryptocurrencies have been introduced, many of which use the symbology of former metallic currencies, such as silver for Litecoin.\n\nIn modern times economists have sort to classify the different types of money supply. The different measures of the money supply have been classified by various central banks, using the prefix \"M\". The supply classifications often depend on how narrowly a supply is specified, for example the \"M\"s may range from M0 (narrowest) to M3 (broadest). The classifications depend on the particular policy formulation used:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23050179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23050179", "title": "Hone Taiapa", "text": "Hone Taiapa\n\nHone Te Kauru Taiapa (10 August 1911 – 10 May 1979), also known as John Taiapa, was a Māori wood carver and carpenter of Ngati Porou. He was the younger brother of master Māori carver Pine Taiapa. The two brothers worked closely with politician Sir Apirana Ngata on reintroducing Māori sculpture to the country after World War II. Both men, for example, demonstrated Māori carving skills by carving traditional homes on the North Island in marae as part of a programme by the New Zealand Department of Education to educate teachers to reintroduce Māori arts to school children. New Zealand poet Hone Tuwhare included a poem about the wood carver, \"On a theme by Hone Taiapa,\" in his 1973 collection \"Something Nothing\".\n\nHe led the team of carvers that carved most of the pieces for \"Arohanui ki te Tangata\" in Lower Hutt, which was opened in September 1960.\n\nIn the 1960 Queen's Birthday Honours, Taiapa was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire for cultural services to the Māori people, especially in the field of wood carving.\n\nHe was the head of the New Zealand Māori Arts and Crafts Institute Carving School at Whakarewarewa, Rotorua when it opened in 1967.\n"}
{"id": "5540235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5540235", "title": "ISO 639:b", "text": "ISO 639:b\n\n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n"}
{"id": "35325039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35325039", "title": "ISpring Suite", "text": "ISpring Suite\n\niSpring Suite is a rapid learning authoring toolkit produced by iSpring for developing training courses in PowerPoint with embedded (or standalone) quizzes, surveys, and interactions. Its output is compatible with mainstream LMS standards (SCORM/AICC), and there is also an option to publish courses specially for BlackBoard LMS. The new xAPI (Tin Can) format for LRSes is supported as well. Output can be a solid SWF file(s), EXE file, HTML page or ZIP archive. Additionally, the cross-platform output format (Flash + HTML5) allows published content to be viewed on any type of modern device.\n\nIn 2005, Flashspring Pro, the prototype of all iSpring products, was released. It was a simple PowerPoint-to-Flash converter with free and commercial versions. Later, iSpring released Flashspring Ultra and SCORM compatibility became available. The companion products FlashSpring Lite and FlashSpring Server were released in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2008 the name was changed to iSpring. \n\nThe current version of iSpring Suite, iSpring Suite 9.0, came out in April 24th, 2018.\n\nOne enhancement made to iSpring Suite 7 was the support of combined, cross-platform Flash + HTML5 format. It allowed users to create mobile-ready projects that adapt to any screen size and orientation.\n\niSpring Suite 7 came with free mobile apps for iOS and Android, which allow offline content viewing. The apps collect statistics on learning activity even with no Internet connection and send them to an LMS once the connection is restored.\n\niSpring Suite 8 introduces several new features to the toolkit.\n\nIn version 8, a conversation simulator was added, allowing users to create simulated dialogues. Also, iSpring Suite 8 has a screen recording tool, allowing users to capture the screen and insert the recording on a PowerPoint slide, an audio/video editor both for screen recordings and audio/video narrations, and a video lecture player to show PowerPoint slides and lecture video side by side.\n\nReleased in April 2018, the 9th version introduced 14 new interactions, a new built-in video editor with extended capabilities for screen recording, and major improvements of the quiz editor: the new drag-and-drop question, the new built-in equation editor, extended feedback options, and 7 new survey question templates.\n\niSpring Suite includes 5 authoring components: the iSpring add-in, iSpring QuizMaker, conversation simulator, screen recording tool and iSpring Visuals — a set of standalone tools that can be used both separately and together. Additional components available in the publishing interface are PowerPoint-to-Video/YouTube (available separately as iSpring SlideAlloy), and iSpring Cloud hosting and sharing platform.\n\niSpring Converter Pro turns PowerPoint projects into mobile-ready online presentations. It supports the standard PowerPoint features such as animation, transition effects and narration facilities and contains additional features that aren't provided by PowerPoint, such as publishing to the Web or an LMS. \n\niSpring QuizMaker allows users to create quizzes and surveys.\n\niSpring Visuals adds rich media interactions to PowerPoint presentations.\n\niSpring TalkMaster is a conversation simulator that allows users to create simulated dialogues for customer support training and other purposes.\n\niSpring ScreenRecorder allows users to capture all or part of a screen and insert the recording on a PowerPoint slide, save it to MP4 video, or publish it to a YouTube account.\n\niSpring SlideAlloy converts PowerPoint presentations to videos in .mp4 format, or publishes them to YouTube.\n\niSpring Cloud is a hosting and delivery platform for PowerPoint presentations, Microsoft documents and spreadsheets, images, video, audio, and PDF files.\n\n"}
{"id": "29618052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29618052", "title": "Interdominant", "text": "Interdominant\n\nIn music, an interdominant is a temporary dominant, the dominant of a key other than the tonic. Since a composition generally begins and ends with the tonic, the dominant of notes other than the tonic would be found in the middle.\n\n"}
{"id": "31711424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31711424", "title": "International Union of Psychological Science", "text": "International Union of Psychological Science\n\nThe International Union of Psychological Science, abbreviated IUPsyS or the Union, is the global umbrella organization for psychology. The Unions president is Saths Cooper of South Africa, and the vice-president is Tor Levin Hofgaard of Norway both of which were elected in 2012.\n\nFounded in 1950, IUPsyS represents around one million psychologists worldwide. It is composed of 82 National Members (national psychology organizations or coalitions of national psychology organizations, one per country), and 17 affiliate or special liaison organizations. Together, these organizations represent the large majority of organized psychology today.\n\nThe overall mission of IUPsyS as specified in its statutes is the development, representation and advancement of psychology as a basic and applied science regionally, nationally, and internationally. This is accomplished through a variety of activities including quadrennial international congresses (the IUPsyS is the sponsor of the International Congress of Psychology), regional conferences, and workshops; publications; capacity building; development of standards; promulgation of policy; and information dissemination.\n\nIUPsyS operates according to a strategic plan. IUPsyS is a member of the International Council for Science (ICSU), the International Social Science Council (ISSC), and is accredited with the World Health Organization (WHO), and the United Nations (ECOSOC and DPI).\n\nThe \"International Journal of Psychology\" (\"IJP\") is the official journal of the IUPsyS, published by Psychology Press. It provides articles and reviews in every domain of psychology and informs the international community about issues of common interest in its International Platform Section.\n\nThe IUPsyS website provides information about IUPsyS and its activities. IUPsyS hosts Psychology Resources Around the World, a web portal with information on the organizations and structure of psychology in 190 countries, and links to psychology information and resources around the world. Other publications include a news Bulletin, Newsletter, informational brochures, and books including a History of the Union, the International Handbook of Psychology, and an international compendium of Psychological Concepts.\n\nThe activities undertaken by the IUPsyS are generally organized through its three Standing Committees: Strategic Planning, Capacity Building, Publications and Communications, and their associated Work Groups.\n\nThe IUPsyS sponsors a variety of capacity building programs. These include: the biennial Advanced Research Training Seminar (ARTS) program that provides training opportunities for scholars from low-income countries to learn about new and up-to-date methodologies and carried forward to their own research programs and to other psychologists in their home communities; capacity building workshops at Regional Conferences of Psychology, and topic-driven capacity building workshop series. In 2012 the IUPsyS is sponsoring a capacity building workshop on the Asian-Pacific region.\n\nThe IUPsyS also supports cooperation and exchange among members of the world community of psychologists through regular communication with its National Member organizations, in the biennial meetings of the Assembly of the Union, and through its web and print publications.\n\n"}
{"id": "50512233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50512233", "title": "Joseph F. Cotton", "text": "Joseph F. Cotton\n\nJoseph Frederick Cotton (January 21, 1922 – May 5, 2016) was an American military test pilot.\n\nCotton was born in Rushville, Indiana on Jan. 21, 1922, the only son of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Cotton. Cotton was a graduate of Manilla High School where he was a member of the basketball team and a 4H club member. He lived in Rush County and helped his father with work on the family farm until he reached the age of 20.\n\nIn his first combat mission, in November 1943, the plane he was co-piloting crash landed on the island of Corfu after being hit by anti-aircraft fire. After four months the crew members were able to escape with the help of Italian allies, and Mr. Cotton was sent back to the U.S. to recover from malaria and return to flight school to become a flight instructor.\n\nHe later attended the Empire Test Pilot School, and eventually was the chief test pilot for the Air Force. He was head of the B-58 Hustler and XB-70 test programs, and was flying in the ill-fated formation flight that resulted in the loss of XB-70 A/V2 on June 8, 1966. He retired from the Air Force in 1968 having been involved in aeronautical research for 22 of his 26 years.\n\nCotton was hired as a engineering flight test pilot for United after his military retirement. In total, he flew more than 16,000 flight hours in 80 different military bombers, fighters, transports, and civilian aircraft.\n\nCotton passed away on May 5, 2016, survived by his wife Rema, and three children.\n"}
{"id": "42679635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42679635", "title": "Kenya Institute of Puppet Theatre (KIPT)", "text": "Kenya Institute of Puppet Theatre (KIPT)\n\nKenya Institute of Puppet Theatre also known as KIPT is a Kenyan non-governmental and non-profit technical advisory and management community based theatre institute, which was founded in 2007.\n\nKIPT uses puppetry, participatory educational theatre and folk media in life skills promotion, community education and cultural communication that, according to KIPT, engages people into interactive discourse.\n\nKIPT was founded by a team of puppet and theatre practitioners for the purpose of harnessing puppetry and folk media theatre experiences and using them for socioeconomic and environmental change. \nThe organization seeks to contribute to the improvement of the livelihoods of the youth and the larger community through the promotion of greater personal and community involvement, accountability, awareness, growth and development, mainly in Kenya and Africa.\n\nKIPT has hosted several festivals, which have taken place in Nairobi.\n\nKIPT was initially called CHAPS (Community Health Awareness Puppeteers), which began in 1994 when a group of South African puppeteers, led by Gary Friedman, director of the African Research and Educational Development Program, were invited to Kenya by Dr Eric Krystall of FPPS in Nairobi to train local Kenyans to start their own program to combat HIV-AIDS in Kenya. A local program of \"Puppets Against Aids\" was set up in Nairobi and twenty years later, the group has expanded and strengthened their training, resources and outreach. Now, hundreds of puppeteers continue their outreach work through Eastern and Central Africa.\n\nAccording to KIPT their aims are as follow:\n\n\n\n\nThe organization has undertaken consultancies in the designing of learning materials, facilitation of workshops, training in puppetry and folk media for national and international organizations. These include; Netherlands Leprosy Relief, Aktion Africa Hilfe, UNICEF, Merlin International, German Development Cooperation (GIZ), Lutheran World Federation, SNV, PLAN International, UNHCR, World Vision, International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, British Council, Warner and Consorten, DSW, Action Aid Kenya, Family Health International, Family Care International and the Association of AIDS Organisation (TASO) in Uganda, among others.\n\nIt has initiated puppetry projects in Nigeria, Eritrea, Sudan, Somalia, Uganda and Liberia and participated in collaborative puppetry projects in Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, South Africa, Finland, Denmark and Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30803846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30803846", "title": "Modern Fantasy: The 100 Best Novels", "text": "Modern Fantasy: The 100 Best Novels\n\nModern Fantasy: The 100 Best Novels, An English-Language Selection, 1946-1987 is a nonfiction book written by David Pringle, published by Grafton Books in 1988 in the United Kingdom and the following year by Peter Bedrick Books in the United States. The foreword is by Brian W. Aldiss.\n\nPrimarily the book comprises 100 short essays on the selected works, covered in order of publication, without any ranking. It is considered an important critical summary of the field of modern fantasy literature.\n\n\"Modern Fantasy\" followed Pringle's \"\", published by Xanadu in 1985. In the introduction he commends the nearly simultaneous \"rival\" followup by Xanadu: Stephen Jones and Kim Newman's \"Horror: The 100 Best Books\" (Xanadu, 1988).\n\nIn fact Xanadu had followed with at least three more books in its : \"Crime and Mystery\" in 1987, both \"Horror\" and \"Fantasy\" in 1988. Xanadu had commissioned Michael Moorcock to write \"Fantasy\", but Moorcock transferred the project to James Cawthorn when it became \"clear that [he] would not be able to deliver it for a long time\".\n\nAccording to ISFDB, Pringle's \"Modern Fantasy\" was released in October 1988, September 1989 in the U.S.; Xanadu's \"Fantasy\" was released in November and published almost simultaneously by Carroll and Graf in the U.S.\n\nPringle says in the introduction, rebutting one academic complaint about the sprawling scope of fantasy, \"But it seems to me that fantasy \"is\" an indiscriminate form. ... We may even view it as the primal genre, essentially formless, a swamp which has served as the breeding ground for all other popular fiction genres ... Up to the eighteenth century, almost all narrative fictions, both verse and prose, were fantastic to a greater or lesser degree.\"\n\nIn the introduction to the earlier book, he had distinguished \"Supernatural Horror\" and \"Heroic fantasy\" as the other important divisions of fantastic fiction beside science fiction. They may be represented by \"Dracula\" and \"The Lord of the Rings\", featuring \"the irruption of some supernatural force into the everyday world\" and \"set in completely imaginary worlds\" respectively. Here he adds \"the Fabulation, or absurdist metafiction—stories which are set in the real world, but which distort that world in ways other than the supernaturally horrific.\" He names Thomas Pynchon, Angela Carter, John Crowley, and Geoff Ryman as authors of fabulations included in his hundred.\n\nWhile covering no foreign-language fantasies and few children's or 'light' fantasies, \"I have tried to make a balanced list, and in so doing I have included some books which are not really to my taste—they may well be other people's favourites, though. In truth, there are not a hundred masterpieces of modern fantasy, any more than there a hundred masterpieces of science fiction.\" \"[A]t least some of the novels I have selected are masterpieces of modern literature, full of beauty and wonder. The others are craftsmanlike entertainments which I happily commend to you for your enjoyment.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25633881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25633881", "title": "Moreška", "text": "Moreška\n\nMoreška is a traditional sword dance from the town of Korčula, on the Croatian island of the same name in the Adriatic. Dating back hundreds of years, the Moreška is an elaborate production involving two groups of dancers, engaging in a mock battle over the fate of a veiled young woman. Originally performed rarely on special occasions, in modern times the Moreška is performed weekly for visiting tourists. The two sides of battling dancers were originally Moors and Christians, recalling the Spanish battles of the Reconquista in the Middle Ages. However, at some point in the 19th century in Korčula, the sides changed from Christians vs. Moors, to Croats vs. Moors, or simply \"White\" and \"Black\", with the non-Moor side emerging victorious.\n\nThe Moreška in Korčula dates back to at least the mid-17th century, with its roots in the Middle Ages, from the several hundred years of battle between Muslims and Christians (Moros y cristianos) in Spain, specially in Catalonia where exist a traditional dance called La Morisca de Gerri de la Sal, during the Reconquista. Multiple European festivals and pageants have their roots from that time period. By the 16th century the conquest theme with mock battles was introduced into the Americas and other world areas administered or culturally influenced by Spain. The version that is danced in Korčula appears to be the only one in modern times which uses two swords held by each soldier (\"Moreškanti\") in the elaborate mock battles.\n\nThe Moreška was originally performed on special occasions only, perhaps once every few years, especially on the Feast Day of \"Sveti Todor\" (Saint Theodore, Korčula's patron saint) in July, in a lavish presentation which could last for up to two hours. In modern times there are abbreviated performances of 20–30 minutes which occur weekly in the summer for visiting tourists. Performers must be native to Korčula, and local families take great pride in their participation.\n\n\nThe Black King enters dragging the captured Bula maiden in chains. He tries to persuade her to respond to his advances, but she replies that she is in love with the White King. The two kings and their armies confront each other, and battle escalates from taunts, to the kings in battle, to both armies clashing, with a mixture of solos and varying rhythms through seven different dances. The Black soldiers are eventually surrounded and defeated, and the White King rescues the Bula.\n\nThere are two societies (groups) which perform the Moreška in the town of Korčula, and other societies on the island which perform another variant of sword dance, known as the Kumpanija. Certain towns and villages have Kumpanija groups, which perform on the respective village feast day, as well as on other festive dates during the summer tourist season:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12987827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12987827", "title": "Music software", "text": "Music software\n\nMusic software is software used for musical composition, digital recording, the creation of electronic music, and other musical applications. Music software has been around for nearly 40 years. It has been seen to have profound impacts on education involving music and creative expression. Musical software has become an outlet for people who do not bond with traditional musical instruments, giving people new and creative ways to compose and perform music in ways that has never been seen before.\n\nMusic software development dates back to the 1960s and 70s. While this software was at best primitive, it nonetheless helped lay the foundation for the future development of the software and synthetic musical production. The early music software was run on large computers at several universities such as Stanford and Penn State. Much of what development came to music software came as a result of the continuous improvement to computers over time. Chain of development is seen clearly in 1978 when nearly 50 music programs came out as a result of MIDI technology, a form of computer communication still used today. MIDI technology provided the key link in hardware for musical software, giving a person a tactile control of an instrument and playing directly into the software in the computer and allowing for maximum control of the production. Fourth generation music software came out in the early 1990s. The largest improvement with this software was the addition of more detailed displays allowing the music software to show more on the screen making the program much easier to use and understand.\nAn important recent development is to automatically transcribe performed music directly to sheet music as developed by ScoreCloud. Today, there are many different music making software packages. \n\nThe effects of music software are seen in almost every song heard today in one way or another. More than ever before, songs are being recorded into DAWs (digital audio workstations) because of their ease of use and their ability to easily manipulate audio files. Much of what used to take a team of professionals to do in a recording studio can now be done on a single computer.\n\nMusic software has led to new ways of education in relation to music. New and emerging science and studies are proving that music software is an effective way in making students more creative at a younger age by providing them with all of the instruments they could ever want within one, streamlined music program. With live loop and sample playing DAWS that can play multiple samples of audio or midi files live with a controller triggering these samples, a new breed of instruments are available to students, allowing them to express themselves in ways never before seen.\n\nVarious schools and colleges have emerged with courses in Music Production and more so in electronic music production. Every Continent has at-least one such notable institute with The North American and European continents leading the way forward. Among the most popular among the youth are, in no specific order: \n\nComputers have now been made that can improvise music scores on their own, using complex algorithms. While functioning on a mathematical algorithm, it is nevertheless producing notes of its own without human instruction. Educators are beginning to recognize that computers hold the future of music. The software being developed for these machines will take music to new and startling heights with the help of computer-based production.\n\n"}
{"id": "26431901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26431901", "title": "National Council of Culture and the Arts", "text": "National Council of Culture and the Arts\n\nThe National Council of Culture and the Arts (CNCA) was the Chilean government agency responsible for arts and cultural policy. The Council was founded in 2003 and amalgamated arts and cultural policy under a single agency. It was a cabinet-level position in the Chilean position. Since the Council was founded, six ministers have been in charge of the Council: José Weinstein under President Ricardo Lagos Escobar, Paulina Urrutia under President Michelle Bachelet, Luciano Cruz-Coke and Roberto Ampuero under President Sebastián Piñera, Claudia Barattini and Ernesto Ottone under the second period of President Michelle Bachelet.\n\nSince 2004, CNCA has awarded the Pablo Neruda Order of Artistic and Cultural Merit to international figures who have stood out for contributions made in the field of art and culture, as well as the Pablo Neruda Ibero-American Poetry Award. Since 2006, as a result of Law No. 19.981, CNCA has given the Pedro Sienna Awards for Chilean audiovisual production.\n\nThe National Council of Culture and the Arts was replaced with the Ministry of Culture, the Arts and Patrimony.\n"}
{"id": "32259489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32259489", "title": "Pabasa (ritual)", "text": "Pabasa (ritual)\n\nPabása ng Pasyón (Tagalog for \"Reading of the Passion\"), known simply as Pabása is a Catholic devotion in the Philippines popular during Holy Week involving the uninterrupted chanting of the \"Pasyón\", an early 16th-century epic poem narrating the life, passion, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The verses are based on the bible and practiced every holy week.\n\nReaders are usually groups of individuals taking turns in chanting verses from the book known as the \"Pasyon\", as a devotion made in fulfilment of a \"panatà\" (this may be a vow, votive offering in request, or thanksgiving). The modern-day \"Pabasa\" may be chanted \"a cappella\" or with the accompaniment of musical instruments such as the guitar, accordion, piano, or by a \"rondalla\" ensemble. \n\nThere are two common styles of chanting, the first of which is the alternate singing of two persons or two groups of people. The second method has each chanter or group of chanters taking turns in singing the stanzas.\n\nBefore evolving into the contemporary ritual, early forms of the Pabasa were introduced to the various indigenous peoples of the archipelago by Spanish friars spreading the Roman Catholic faith. Over the period of Spanish colonial rule from the late 16th century until 1898, indigenous Filipinos adapted the religious chanting of the Spanish priests and incorporated it to the ancient custom of singing epics during celebrations. The vocal singing style has in many ways, preserved the pre-Hispanic singing techniques of the main groups of the country, like the Tagalog, Ilocano and Visayan ethnic groups.\n\nThe reading and chanting ritual, which is more common in rural areas, may be sponsored by local religious organisations. The Pabasa is done continuously day and night and usually lasts for three consecutive days. The Pabasa may begin on Holy Monday, the second day of Holy Week; or it may also start in the afternoon of Maundy Thursday. If started on Holy Thursday, the pabasa usually ends on the morning of Good Friday.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24566", "title": "Palaeography", "text": "Palaeography\n\nPalaeography (UK) or paleography (US; ultimately from , \"palaiós\", \"old\", and , \"graphein\", \"to write\") is the study of ancient and historical handwriting (that is to say, of the forms and processes of writing; not the textual content of documents). Included in the discipline is the practice of deciphering, reading, and dating historical manuscripts, and the cultural context of writing, including the methods with which writing and books were produced, and the history of scriptoria.\n\nThe discipline is important for understanding, authenticating, and dating ancient texts. However, it cannot in general be used to pinpoint dates with high precision.\n\nPalaeography can be an essential skill for historians and philologists, as it tackles two main difficulties. First, since the style of a single alphabet in each given language has evolved constantly, it is necessary to know how to decipher its individual characters as they existed in various eras. Second, scribes often used many abbreviations, usually so as to write more quickly and sometimes to save space, so the specialist-palaeographer must know how to interpret them. Knowledge of individual letter-forms, ligatures, punctuation, and abbreviations enables the palaeographer to read and understand the text. The palaeographer must know, first, the language of the text (that is, one must become expert in the relevant earlier forms of these languages); and second, the historical usages of various styles of handwriting, common writing customs, and scribal or notarial abbreviations. Philological knowledge of the language, vocabulary, and grammar generally used at a given time or place can help palaeographers identify ancient or more recent forgeries versus authentic documents.\n\nKnowledge of writing materials is also essential to the study of handwriting and to the identification of the periods in which a document or manuscript may have been produced. An important goal may be to assign the text a date and a place of origin: this is why the palaeographer must take into account the style and formation of the manuscript and the handwriting used in it.\n\nPalaeography can be used to provide information about the date at which a document was written. However, \"paleography is a last resort for dating\" and, \"for book hands, a period of 50 years is the least acceptable spread of time\" with it being suggested that \"the 'rule of thumb' should probably be to avoid dating a hand more precisely than a range of at least seventy or eighty years\". In a 2005 e-mail addendum to his 1996 \"The Paleographical Dating of P-46\" paper Bruce W. Griffin stated \"Until more rigorous methodologies are developed, it is difficult to construct a 95% confidence interval for NT manuscripts without allowing a century for an assigned date.\" William M Schniedewind went even further in the abstract to his 2005 paper \"Problems of Paleographic Dating of Inscriptions\" and stated that \"The so-called science of paleography often relies on circular reasoning because there is insufficient data to draw precise conclusion about dating. Scholars also tend to oversimplify diachronic development, assuming models of simplicity rather than complexity\".\n\n\nThe Aramaic language was the international trade language of the Ancient Middle East, originating in what is modern-day Syria, between 1000 and 600 BC. It spread from the Mediterranean coast to the borders of India, becoming extremely popular and being adopted by many people, both with or without any previous writing system. The Aramaic script was written in a consonantal form with a direction from right to left. The Aramaic alphabet, a modified form of Phoenician, was the ancestor of the modern Arabic and Hebrew scripts, as well as the Brāhmī script, the parent writing system of most modern abugidas in India, Southeast Asia, Tibet, and Mongolia. Initially, the Aramaic script did not differ from the Phoenician, but then the Aramaeans simplified some of the letters, thickened and rounded their lines: a specific feature of its letters is the distinction between d and r. One innovation in Aramaic is the \"matres lectionis\" system to indicate certain vowels. Early Phoenician-derived scripts did not have letters for vowels, and so most texts recorded just consonants. Most likely as a consequence of phonetic changes in North Semitic languages, the Aramaeans reused certain letters in the alphabet to represent long vowels. The letter \"aleph\" was employed to write /ā/, \"he\" for /ō/, \"yod\" for /ī/, and \"vav\" for /ū/.\n\nAramaic writing and language supplanted Babylonian cuneiform and Akkadian language, even in their homeland in Mesopotamia. The wide diffusion of Aramaic letters led to its writing being used not only in monumental inscriptions, but also on papyrus and potsherds. Aramaic papyri have been found in large numbers in Egypt, especially at Elephantine—among them are official and private documents of the Jewish military settlement in 5 BC. In the Aramaic papyri and potsherds, words are separated usually by a small gap, as in modern writing. At the turn of the 3rd to 2nd centuries BC, the heretofore uniform Aramaic letters developed new forms, as a result of dialectal and political fragmentation in several subgroups. The most important of these is the so-called square Hebrew block script, followed by Palmyrene, Nabataean, and the much later Syriac script.\n\nAramaic is usually divided into three main parts:\n\nThe term Middle Aramaic refers to the form of Aramaic which appears in pointed texts and is reached in the 3rd century AD with the loss of short unstressed vowels in open syllables, and continues until the triumph of Arabic.\n\nOld Aramaic appeared in the 11th century BC as the official language of the first Aramaean states. The oldest witnesses to it are inscriptions from northern Syria of the 10th to 8th centuries BC, especially extensive state treaties (c. 750 BC) and royal inscriptions. The early Old Ancient should be classified as \"Ancient Aramaic\" and consists of two clearly distinguished and standardised written languages, the Early Ancient Aramaic and the Late Ancient Aramaic. Aramaic was influenced at first principally by Akkadian, then from the 5th century BC by Persian and from the 3rd century BC onwards by Greek, as well as by Hebrew, especially in Palestine. As Aramaic evolved into the imperial language of the Neo-Assyrian Empire, the script used to write it underwent a change into something more cursive. The best examples of this script come from documents written on papyrus from Egypt. About 500 BC, Darius I (522–486) made the Aramaic used by the Achaemenid imperial administration into the official language of the western half of the Persian Empire. This so-called \"Imperial Aramaic\" (the oldest dated example, from Egypt, belonging to 495 BC) is based on an otherwise unknown written form of Ancient Aramaic from Babylonia. In orthography, Imperial Aramaic preserves historical forms—alphabet, orthography, morphology, pronunciation, vocabulary, syntax and style are highly standardised. Only the formularies of the private documents and the Proverbs of Ahiqar have maintained an older tradition of sentence structure and style. Imperial Aramaic immediately replaced Ancient Aramaic as a written language and, with slight modifications, it remained the official, commercial and literary language of the Near East until gradually, beginning with the fall of the Persian Empire (331 BC) and ending in the 4th century AD, it was replaced by Greek, Persian, the eastern and western dialects of Aramaic and Arabic, though not without leaving its traces in the written form of most of these. In its original Achaemenid form, Imperial Aramaic is found in texts of the 5th to 3rd centuries BC. These come mostly from Egypt and especially from the Jewish military colony of Elephantine, which existed at least from 530 to 399 BC.\n\n\n\nA history of Greek handwriting must be incomplete owing to the fragmentary nature of evidence. If one rules out the inscriptions on stone or metal, which belong to the science of , we are practically dependent for the period preceding the 4th or 5th century AD on the papyri from Egypt (cf. ), the earliest of which take back our knowledge only to the end of the 4th century BC. This limitation is less serious than might appear, since the few manuscripts not of Egyptian origin which have survived from this period, like the parchments from Avroman or Dura, the Herculaneum papyri, and a few documents found in Egypt but written elsewhere, reveal a uniformity of style in the various portions of the Greek world; but some differences can be discerned, and it is probable that, were there more material, distinct local styles could be traced.\n\nFurther, any given period several types of hand may exist together. There was a marked difference between the hand used for literary works (generally called \"uncials\" but, in the papyrus period, better styled \"book-hand\") and that of documents (\"cursive\") and within each of these classes several distinct styles were employed side by side; and the various types are not equally well represented in the surviving papyri.\n\nThe development of any hand is largely influenced by the materials used. To this general rule the Greek script is no exception. Whatever may have been the period at which the use of papyrus or leather as a writing material began in Greece (and papyrus was employed in the 5th century BC), it is highly probable that for some time after the introduction of the alphabet the characters were incised with a sharp tool on stones or metal far oftener than they were written with a pen. In cutting a hard surface, it is easier to form angles than curves; in writing the reverse is the case; hence the development of writing was from angular letters (\"capitals\") inherited from epigraphic style to rounded ones (\"uncials\"). But only certain letters were affected by this development, in particular E (uncial ε), Σ (c), Ω (ω), and to a lesser extent A (α).\n\nThe earliest Greek papyrus yet discovered is probably that containing the \"Persae\" of Timotheus, which dates from the second half of the 4th century BC and its script has a curiously archaic appearance. E, Σ, and Ω have the capital form, and apart from these test letters the general effect is one of stiffness and angularity. More striking is the hand of the earliest dated papyrus, a contract of 311 BC. Written with more ease and elegance, it shows little trace of any development towards a truly cursive style; the letters are not linked, and though the uncial c is used throughout, E and Ω have the capital forms. A similar impression is made by the few other papyri, chiefly literary, dating from about 300 BC; E may be slightly rounded, Ω approach the uncial form, and the angular Σ occurs as a letter only in the Timotheus papyrus, though it survived longer as a numeral (= 200), but the hands hardly suggest that for at least a century and a half the art of writing on papyrus had been well established. Yet before the middle of the 3rd century BC, one finds both a practised book-hand and a developed and often remarkably handsome cursive.\n\nThese facts may be due to accident, the few early papyri happening to represent an archaic style which had survived along with a more advanced one; but it is likely that there was a rapid development at this period, due partly to the opening of Egypt, with its supplies of papyri, and still more to the establishment of the great Alexandrian Library, which systematically copied literary and scientific works, and to the multifarious activities of Hellenistic bureaucracy. From here onward, the two types of script were sufficiently distinct (though each influenced the other) to require separate treatment. Some literary papyri, like the roll containing Aristotle's \"Constitution of Athens\", were written in cursive hands, and, conversely, the book-hand was occasionally used for documents. Since the scribe did not date literary rolls, such papyri are useful in tracing the development of the book-hand.\n\nThe documents of the mid-3rd century BC show a great variety of cursive hands. There are none from chancelleries of the Hellenistic monarchs, but some letters, notably those of Apollonius, the finance minister of Ptolemy II, to this agent, Zeno, and those of the Palestianian sheikh, Toubias, are in a type of script which cannot be very unlike the Chancery hand of the time, and show the Ptolemaic cursive at its best. These hands have a noble spaciousness and strength, and though the individual letters are by no means uniform in size there is a real unity of style, the general impression being one of breadth and uprightness. H, with the cross-stroke high, Π, Μ, with the middle stroke reduced to a very shallow curve, sometimes approaching a horizontal line, Υ, and Τ, with its cross-bar extending much further to the left than to the right of the up-stroke, Γ and Ν, whose last stroke is prolonged upwards above the line, often curving backwards, are all broad; ε, c, θ and β, which sometimes takes the form of two almost perpendicular strokes joined only at the top, are usually small; ω is rather flat, its second loop reduced to a practically straight line. Partly by the broad flat tops of the larger letters, partly by the insertion of a stroke connecting those (like H, Υ) which are not naturally adapted to linking, the scribes produced the effect of a horizontal line along the top of the writing, from which the letters seem to hang. This feature is indeed a general characteristic of the more formal Ptolemaic script, but it is specially marked in the 3rd century BC.\n\nBesides these hand of Chancery type, there are numerous less elaborate examples of cursive, varying according to the writer's skill and degree of education, and many of them strikingly easy and handsome. In some cursiveness is carried very far, the linking of letters reaching the point of illegibility, and the characters sloping to the right. A is reduced to a mere acute angle (∠), T has the cross-stroke only on the left, ω becomes an almost straight line, H acquires a shape somewhat like h, and the last stroke of N is extended far upwards and at times flattened out until it is little more than a diagonal stroke to the right. The attempt to secure a horizontal line along the top is here abandoned. This style was not due to inexpertness, but to the desire for speed, being used especially in accounts and drafts, and was generally the work of practised writers. How well established the cursive hand had now become is shown in some wax tablets of this period, the writing on which, despite the difference of material, closely resemble the hands of papyri.\n\nDocuments of the late 3rd and early 2nd centuries BC show, perhaps partly by the accident of survival (there is nothing analogous to the Apollonius letters, a loss of breadth and spaciousness. In the more formal types the letters stand rather stiffly upright, often without the linking strokes, and are more uniform in size; in the more cursive they are apt to be packed closely together. These features are more marked in the hands of the 2nd century. The less cursive often show am approximation to the book-hand, the letters growing rounder and less angular than in the 3rd century; in the more cursive linking was carried further, both by the insertion of coupling strokes and by the writing of several letters continuously without raising the pen, so that before the end of the century an almost current hand was evolved. A characteristic letter, which survived into the early Roman period, is T, with its cross-stroke made in two portions (variants:). In the 1st century, the hand tended, so far as can be inferred from surviving examples, to disintegrate; one can recognise the signs which portend a change of style, irregularity, want of direction, and the loss of the feeling for style. A fortunate accident has preserved two Greek parchments written in Parthia, one dated 88 BC, in a practically unligatured hand, the other, 22/21 BC, in a very cursive script of Ptolemaic type; and though each has non-Egyptian features the general character indicates a uniformity of style in the Hellenistic world.\n\nThe development of the Ptolemaic book-hand is difficult to trace, as there are few examples, mostly not datable on external grounds. Only for the 3rd century BC have we a secure basis. The hands of that period have an angular appearance; there is little uniformity in the size of individual letters, and though sometimes, notably in the Petrie papyrus containing the \"Phaedo\" of Plato, a style of considerable delicacy is attained, the book-hand in general shows less mastery than the contemporary cursive. In the 2nd century the letters grew rounder and more uniform in size, but in the 1st century there is perceptible, here as in the cursive hand, a certain disintegration. Probably at no time did the Ptolemaic book-hand acquire such unity of stylistic effect as the cursive.\n\nPapyri of the Roman period are far more numerous and show greater variety. The cursive of the 1st century has a rather broken appearance, part of one character being often made separately from the rest and linked to the next letter. A form characteristic of the 1st and 2nd century and surviving after that only as a fraction sign (=⅛) is η in the shape . By the end of the 1st century, there had been developed several excellent types of cursive, which, though differing considerably both in the forms of individual letters and in general appearance, bear a family likeness to one another. Qualities which are specially noticeable are roundness in the shape of letters, continuity of formation, the pen being carried on from character to character, and regularity, the letters not differing strikingly in size and projecting strokes above or below the line being avoided. Sometimes, especially in tax-receipts and in stereotyped formulae, cursiveness is carried to an extreme. In a letter of the prefect, dated in 209, we have a fine example of the Chancery hand, with tall and laterally compressed letters, ο very narrow and α and ω often written high in the line. This style, from at least the latter part of the 2nd century, exercised considerable influence on the local hands, many of which show the same characteristics less pronounced; and its effects may be traced into the early part of the 4th century. Hands of the 3rd century uninfluenced by it show a falling off from the perfection of the 2nd century; stylistic uncertainty and a growing coarseness of execution mark a period of decline and transition.\n\nSeveral different types of book-hand were used in the Roman period. Particularly handsome is a round, upright hand seen, for example, in a British Museum papyrus containing \"Odyssey\" III. The cross-stroke of ε is high, Μ deeply curved and Α has the form α. Uniformity of size is well attained, and a few strokes project, and these but slightly, above or below the line. Another type, well called by palaeographer Schubart the \"severe\" style, has a more angular appearance and not infrequently slopes to the right; though handsome, it has not the sumptuous appearance of the former. There are various classes of a less pretentious style, in which convenience rather than beauty was the first consideration and no pains were taken to avoid irregularities in the shape and alignment of the letters. Lastly may be mentioned a hand which is of great interest as being the ancestor of the type called (from its later occurrence in vellum codices of the Bible) the biblical hand. This, which can be traced back at least the late 2nd century, has a square, rather heavy appearance; the letters, of uniform size, stand upright, and thick and thin strokes are well distinguished. In the 3rd century the book-hand, like the cursive, appears to have deteriorated in regularity and stylistic accomplishment.\n\nIn the charred rolls found at Herculaneum and dating from about the beginning of our era, are specimens of Greek literary hands from outside Egypt; and a comparison with the Egyptian papyri reveals great similarity in style and shows that conclusions drawn from the henads of Egypt may, with caution, be applied to the development of writing in the Greek world generally.\n\nThe cursive hand of the 4th century shows some uncertainty of character. Side by side with the style founded on the Chancery hand, regular in formation and with tall and narrow letters, which characterised the period of Diocletian, and lasted well into the century, we find many other types mostly marked by a certain looseness and irregularity. A general progress towards a florid and sprawling hand is easily recognisable, but a consistent and deliberate style was hardly evolved before the 5th century, from which unfortunately few dated documents have survived. Byzantine cursive tends to an exuberant hand, in which the long strokes are excessively extended and individual letters often much enlarged. But not a few hands of the 5th and 6th centuries are truly handsome and show considerable technical accomplishment. Both an upright and a sloping type occur and there are many less ornamental hands, but there gradually emerged towards the 7th century two general types, one (especially used in letters and contracts) a current hand, sloping to the right, with long strokes in such characters at τ, ρ, ξ, η (which has the h shape), ι, and κ, and with much linking of letters, and another (frequent in accounts), which shows, at least in essence, most of the forms of the later minuscule. (cf. below.) This is often upright, though a slope to the right is quite common, and sometimes, especially in one or two documents of the early Arab period, it has an almost calligraphic effect.\n\nIn the Byzantine period, the book-hand, which in earlier times had more than once approximated to the contemporary cursive, diverged widely from it.\n\nThe change from papyrus to vellum involved no such modification in the forms of letters as followed that from metal to papyrus. The justification for considering the two materials separately is that after the general adoption of vellum, the Egyptian evidence is first supplemented and later superseded by that of manuscripts from elsewhere, and that during this period the hand most used was one not previously employed for literary purposes.\n\nThe prevailing type of book-hand during what in papyrology is called the Byzantine period, that is, roughly from AD 300 to 650, is known as the biblical hand. It went back to at least the end of the 2nd century and had had originally no special connection with Christian literature. In manuscripts, whether vellum or paper, of the 4th century found in Egypt are met other forms of script, particularly a sloping, rather inelegant hand derived from the literary hand of the 3rd century, which persisted to at least the 5th century; but the three great early codices of the Bible are all written in uncials of the biblical type. In the Vaticanus, placed in the 4th century, the characteristics of the hand are least strongly marked; the letters have the forms characteristic of the type but without the heavy appearance of later manuscripts, and the general impression is one of greater roundness. In the Sinaiticus, which is not much later, the letters are larger and more heavily made; and in the Alexandrinus (5th century) a later development is seen, with emphatic distinction of thick and thin strokes. By the 6th century, alike in vellum and in papyrus manuscripts, the heaviness had become very marked, though the hand still retained, in its best examples, a handsome appearance; but after this it steadily deteriorated, becoming ever more mechanical and artificial. The thick strokes grew heavier; the cross strokes of T and Θ and the base of Δ were furnished with drooping spurs. The hand, which is often singularly ugly, passed through various modifications, now sloping, now upright, though it is not certain that these variations were really successive rather than concurrent. A different type of uncials, derived from the Chancery hand and seen in two papyrus examples of the Festal letters despatched annually by the Patriarch of Alexandria, was occasionally used, the best known example being the Codex Marchalianus (6th or 7th century). A combination of this hand with the other type is also known.\n\nThe uncial hand lingered on, mainly for liturgical manuscripts, where a large and easily legible script was serviceable, as late as the 12th century, but in ordinary use it had long been superseded by a new type of hand, the minuscule, which originated in the 8th century, as an adaptation to literary purposes of the second of the types of Byzantine cursive mentioned above. A first attempt at a calligraphic use of this hand, seen in one or two manuscripts of the 8th or early 9th century, in which it slopes to the right and has a narrow, angular appearance, did not find favour, but by the end of the 9th century a more ornamental type, from which modern Greek script descended, was already established. It has been suggested that it was evolved in the Monastery of Stoudios at Constantinople. In its earliest examples it is upright and exact but lacks flexibility; accents are small, breathings square in formation, and in general only such ligatures are used as involve no change in the shape of letters. The single forms have a general resemblance (with considerable differences in detail) both to the minuscule cursive of late papyri, and to those used in modern Greek type; uncial forms were avoided.\n\nIn the course of the 10th century the hand, without losing its beauty and exactness, gained in freedom. Its finest period was from the 9th to the 12th century, after which it rapidly declined. The development was marked by a tendency\nBut from the first there were several styles, varying from the formal, regular hands characteristic of service books to the informal style, marked by numerous abbreviations, used in manuscripts intended only for a scholar's private use. The more formal hands were exceedingly conservative, and there are few classes of script more difficult to date than the Greek minuscule of this class. In the 10th, 11th and 12th centuries a sloping hand, less dignified than the upright, formal type, but often very handsome, was especially used for manuscripts of the classics.\n\nHands of the 11th century are marked in general (though there are exceptions) by a certain grace and delicacy, exact but easy; those of the 12th by a broad, bold sweep and an increasing freedom, which readily admits uncial forms, ligatures and enlarged letters but has not lost the sense of style and decorative effect. In the 13th and still more in the 14th centuries there was a steady decline; the less formal hands lost their beauty and exactness, becoming ever more disorderly and chaotic in their effect, while formal style imitated the precision of an earlier period without attaining its freedom and naturalness, and often appears singularly lifeless. In the 15th century, especially in the West, where Greek scribes were in request to produce manuscripts of the classical authors, there was a revival, and several manuscripts of this period, though markedly inferior to those of the 11th and 12th centuries, are by no means without beauty.\n\nIn the book-hand of early papyri, neither accents nor breathings were employed. Their use was established by the beginning of the Roman period, but was sporadic in papyri, where they were used as an aid to understanding, and therefore more frequently in poetry than prose, and in lyrical oftener than in other verse. In the cursive of papyri they are practically unknown, as are marks of punctuation. Punctuation was effected in early papyri, literary and documentary, by spaces, reinforced in the book-hand by the paragraphos, a horizontal stroke under the beginning of the line. The coronis, a more elaborate form of this, marked the beginning of lyrics or the principal sections of a longer work. Punctuation marks, the comma, the high, low and middle points, were established in the book-hand by the Roman period; in early Ptolemaic papyri, a double point (:) is found.\n\nIn vellum and paper manuscripts, punctuation marks and accents were regularly used from at least the 8th century, though with some differences from modern practice. At no period down to the invention of printing did Greek scribes consistently separate words. The book-hand of papyri aimed at an unbroken succession of letters, except for distinction of sections; in cursive hands, especially where abbreviations were numerous, some tendency to separate words may be recognised, but in reality it was phrases or groups of letters rather than words which were divided. In the later minuscule word-division is much commoner but never became systematic, accents and breathings serving of themselves to indicate the proper division.\n\nThe view that the art of writing in India developed gradually, as in other areas of the world, by going through the stages of pictographic, ideographic and transitional phases of the phonetic script, which in turn developed into syllabic and alphabetic scripts was challenged by Falk and others in the early 1990s. In the new paradigm, Indian alphabetic writing, called Brāhmī, was discontinuous with earlier, undeciphered, glyphs, and was invented specifically by King Ashoka for application in his royal edicts. In the subcontinent, three scripts like Indus, Kharoṣṭhī and Brāhmī became prevalent. In addition, Greek and Arabic scripts were also added to the Indian context after their penetration in the early centuries of the common era (CE). The decipherment and subsequent development of Indus glyphs is also a matter for continuing research and discussion. After a lapse of a few centuries the Kharoṣṭhī script became obsolete; the Greek script in India went through a similar fate and disappeared. But the Brāhmī and Arabic scripts endured for a much longer period. Moreover, there was a change and development in the Brāhmī script which may be traced in time and space through the Maurya, Kuṣāṇa, Gupta and early medieval periods. The present day Nāgarī script is derived from Brāhmī. The Brāhmī is also the ancestral script of many other Indian scripts, in northern and southern South Asia. Legends and inscriptions in Brāhmī are engraved upon leather, wood, terracotta, ivory, stone, copper, bronze, silver and gold. Arabic got an important place, particularly in the royalty, during the medieval period and it provides rich material for history writing.\n\nMost of the available inscriptions and manuscripts written in the above scripts—in languages like Prākrita, Pāḷi, Saṃskṛta, Apabhraṃśa, Tamil and Persian—have been read and exploited for history writing, but numerous inscriptions preserved in different museums still remain undeciphered for lack of competent palaeographic Indologists, as there is a gradual decline in the subcontinent of such disciplines as palaeography, epigraphy and numismatics. The discipline of ancient Indian scripts and the languages they are written needs new scholars who, by adopting traditional palaeographic methods and modern technology, may decipher, study and transcribe the various types of epigraphs and legends still extant today.\n\nThe language of the earliest written records, that is, the Edicts of Ashoka, is Prakrit. Besides Prakrit, the Ashokan edicts are also written in Greek and Aramaic. Moreover, all the edicts of Ashoka engraved in the Kharoshthi and Brahmi scripts are in the Prakrit language: thus, originally the language employed in the inscriptions was Prakrit, with Sanskrit adopted at a later stage. Past the period of the Maurya Empire, the use of Prakrit continued in inscriptions for a few more centuries. In north India, Prakrit was replaced by Sanskrit by the end of the 3rd century, while this change took place about a century later in south India. Some of the inscriptions though written in Prakrit, were influenced by Sanskrit and vice versa. The epigraphs of the Kushana kings are found in a mixture of Prakrit and Sanskrit, while the Mathura inscriptions of the time of Sodasa, belonging to the first quarter of the 1st century, contain verses in classical Sanskrit. From the 4th century onwards, the Guptas came to power and made Sanskrit flourish by supporting it in language and literature.\n\nIn western India and also in some regions of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, Prakrit was used till the 4th century, mostly in the Buddhist writings though in a few contemporary records of the Ikshvakus of Nagarjunakonda, Sanskrit was applied. The inscription of Yajna Sri Satakarni (2nd century) from Amaravati is considered to be the earliest so far. The earlier writings (4th century) of Salankayanas of the Telugu region are in Prakrit, while their later records (belonging to the 5th century) are written in Sanskrit. In the Kannada speaking area, inscriptions belonging to later Satavahanas and Chutus were written in Prakrit. From the 4th century onwards, with the rise of the Guptas, Sanskrit became the predominant language of India and continued to be employed in texts and inscriptions of all parts of India along with the regional languages in the subsequent centuries. The copper-plate charters of the Pallavas, the Cholas and the Pandyas documents are written in both Sanskrit and Tamil. Kannada is used in texts dating from about the 5th century and the Halmidi inscription is considered to be the earliest epigraph written in the Kannada language. Inscriptions in Telugu began to appear from the 6th or 7th century. Malayalam made its beginning in writings from the 15th century onwards.\n\nIn north India, the Brahmi script was used over a vast area; however, Ashokan inscriptions are also found using Kharoshthi, Aramaic and Greek scripts. With the advent of the Saka-Kshatrapas and the Kushanas as political powers in north India, the writing system underwent a definite change due to the use of new writing tools and techniques. Further development of the Brahmi script and perceivable changes in its evolutionary trend can be discerned during the Gupta period: in fact, the Gupta script is considered to be the successor of the Kushana script in north India.\n\nFrom the 6th to about the 10th century of the common era, the inscriptions in north India were written in a script variously named, e.g., Siddhamatrika and Kutila (\"Rañjanā script\"). From the 8th century, Siddhamatrika developed into the Śāradā script in Kashmir and Punjab, into Proto-Bengali or Gaudi in Bengal and Orissa, and into Nagari in other parts of north India. Nāgarī script was used widely in northern India from the 10th century onwards. The use of Nandinagari, a variant of Nagari script, is mostly confined to the Karnataka region.\n\nIn central India, mostly in Madhya Pradesh, the inscriptions of the Vakatakas, and the kings of Sarabhapura and Kosala were written in what are known as \"box-headed\" and \"nail-headed\" characters. It may be noted that the early Kadambas of Karnataka also employed \"nail-headed\" characters in some of their inscriptions. During the 3rd–4th century, the script used in the inscriptions of Ikshvakus of Nagarjunakonda developed a unique style of letter-forms with elongated verticals and artistic flourishes, which did not continue after their rule.\n\nThe earliest attested form of writing in South India is represented by inscriptions found in caves, associated with the Chalukya and Chera dynasties. These are written in variants of what is known as the Cave character, and their script differs from the Northern version in being more angular. Most of the modern scripts of South India have evolved from this script, with the exception of Vatteluttu, the exact origins of which are unknown, and Nandinagari, which is a variant of Devanagari that developed due to later Northern influence. In south India from the 7th century of the common era onwards, a number of inscriptions belonging to the dynasties of Pallava, Chola and Pandya are found. These records are written in three different scripts known as Tamil, Vattezhuttu and Grantha scripts, the last variety being used to write Sanskrit inscriptions. In the Kerala region, the Vattezhuttu script developed into a still more cursive script called Kolezhuthu during the 14th and 15th centuries. At the same time, the modern Malayalam script developed out of the Grantha script. The early form of the Telugu-Kannada script is found in the inscriptions of the early Kadambas of Banavasi and the early Chalukyas of Badami in the west, and Salankayana and the early Eastern Chalukyas in the east who ruled the Kannada and Telugu speaking areas respectively, during the 4th to 7th centuries.\n\nAttention should be drawn at the outset to certain fundamental definitions and principles of the science. The original characters of an alphabet are modified by the material and the implements used. When stone and chisel are discarded for papyrus and reed-pen, the hand encounters less resistance and moves more rapidly. This leads to changes in the size and position of the letters, and then to the joining of letters, and, consequently, to altered shapes. We are thus confronted at an early date with quite distinct types. The majuscule style of writing, based on two parallel lines, ADPL, is opposed to the minuscule, based on a system of four lines, with letters of unequal height, adpl. Another classification, according to the care taken in forming the letters, distinguishes between the set book-hand and the cursive script. The difference in this case is determined by the subject matter of the text; the writing used for books (\"scriptura libraria\") is in all periods quite distinct from that used for letters and documents (\"epistolaris, diplomatica\"). While the set book-hand, in majuscule or minuscule, shows a tendency to stabilise the forms of the letters, the cursive, often carelessly written, is continually changing in the course of years and according to the preferences of the writers.\n\nThis being granted, a summary survey of the morphological history of the Latin alphabet shows the zenith of its modifications at once, for its history is divided into two very unequal periods, the first dominated by majuscule and the second by minuscule writing.\n\nJean Mabillon, a French Benedictine monk, scholar and antiquary, whose work \"De re diplomatica\" was published in 1681, is widely regarded as the founder of the twin disciplines of palaeography and diplomatics. However, the actual term \"palaeography\" was coined (in Latin) by Bernard de Montfaucon, a Benedictine monk, in the title of his \"Palaeographia Graeca\" (1708), which remained a standard work in the specific field of Greek palaeography for more than a century. With their establishment of palaeography, Mabillon and his fellow Benedictines were responding to the Jesuit Daniel Papebroch, who doubted the authenticity of some of the documents which the Benedictines offered as credentials for the authorisation of their monasteries. In the 19th century such scholars as Wilhelm Wattenbach, Leopold Delisle and Ludwig Traube contributed greatly to making palaeography independent from diplomatic. In the 20th century, the 'New French School' of palaeographers, especially Jean Mallon, gave a new direction to the study of scripts by stressing the importance of ductus (the shape and order of the strokes used to compose letters) in studying the historical development of scripts.\n\nThe Latin alphabet first appears in the epigraphic type of majuscule writing, known as capitals. These characters form the main stem from which developed all the branches of Latin writing. On the oldest monuments (the \"inscriptiones bello Hannibalico antiquiores\" of the \"Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum = CIL\"), it is far from showing the orderly regularity of the later period. Side by side with upright and square characters are angular and sloping forms, sometimes very distorted, which seem to indicate the existence of an early cursive writing from which they would have been borrowed. Certain literary texts clearly allude to such a hand. Later, the characters of the cursive type were progressively eliminated from formal inscriptions, and capital writing reached its perfection in the Augustan Age.\n\nEpigraphists divide the numerous inscriptions of this period into two quite distinct classes: \"tituli\", or formal inscriptions engraved on stone in elegant and regular capitals, and \"acta\", or legal texts, documents, etc., generally engraved on bronze in cramped and careless capitals. Palaeography inherits both these types. Reproduced by scribes on papyrus or parchment, the elegant characters of the inscriptions become the square capitals of the manuscripts, and the \"actuaria\", as the writing of the \"acta\" is called, becomes the rustic capital.\n\nOf the many books written in square capitals, the \"éditions de luxe\" of ancient times, only a few fragments have survived, the most famous being pages from manuscripts of Virgil. The finest examples of rustic capitals, the use of which is attested by papyri of the 1st century, are to be found in manuscripts of Virgil and Terence. Neither of these forms of capital writing offers any difficulty in reading, except that no space is left between the words. Their dates are still uncertain, in spite of attempts to determine them by minute observation.\n\nThe rustic capitals, more practical than the square forms, soon came into general use. This was the standard form of writing, so far as books are concerned, until the 5th century, when it was replaced by a new type, the uncial, which is discussed below.\n\nWhile the set book-hand, in square or rustic capitals, was used for the copying of books, the writing of everyday life, letters and documents of all kinds, was in a cursive form, the oldest examples of which are provided by the graffiti on walls at Pompeii (\"CIL\", iv), a series of waxen tablets, also discovered at Pompeii (\"CIL\", iv, supplement), a similar series found at Verespatak in Transylvania (\"CIL\", iii) and a number of papyri. From a study of a number of documents which exhibit transitional forms, it appears that this cursive was originally simplified capital writing. The evolution was so rapid, however, that at quite an early date the \"scriptura epistolaris\" of the Roman world can no longer be described as capitals. By the 1st century, this kind of writing began to develop the principal characteristics of two new types: the uncial and the minuscule cursive. With the coming into use of writing surfaces which were smooth, or offered little resistance, the unhampered haste of the writer altered the shape, size and position of the letters. In the earliest specimens of writing on wax, plaster or papyrus, there appears a tendency to represent several straight strokes by a single curve. The cursive writing thus foreshadows the specifically uncial forms. The same specimens show great inequality in the height of the letters; the main strokes are prolonged upwards (= b; = d) or downwards (= q; = s). In this direction, the cursive tends to become a minuscule hand.\n\nAlthough the characteristic forms of the uncial type appear to have their origin in the early cursive, the two hands are nevertheless quite distinct. The uncial is a \"libraria\", closely related to the capital writing, from which it differs only in the rounding off of the angles of certain letters, principally . It represents a compromise between the beauty and legibility of the capitals and the rapidity of the cursive, and is clearly an artificial product. It was certainly in existence by the latter part of the 4th century, for a number of manuscripts of that date are written in perfect uncial hands (\"Exempla\", pl. XX). It presently supplanted the capitals and appears in numerous manuscripts which have survived from the 5th, 6th and 7th centuries, when it was at its height. By this time it had become an imitative hand, in which there was generally no room for spontaneous development. It remained noticeably uniform over a long period. It is difficult therefore to date the manuscripts by palaeographical criteria alone. The most that can be done is to classify them by centuries, on the strength of tenuous data. The earliest uncial writing is easily distinguished by its simple and monumental character from the later hands, which become progressively stiff and affected.\n\nIn the ancient cursive writing, from the 1st century onward, there are symptoms of transformation in the form of certain letters, the shape and proportions of which correspond more closely to the definition of minuscule writing than to that of majuscule. Rare and irregular at first, they gradually become more numerous and more constant and by degrees supplant the majuscule forms, so that in the history of the Roman cursive there is no precise boundary between the majuscule and minuscule periods.\n\nThe oldest example of minuscule cursive writing that has been discovered is a letter on papyrus, found in Egypt, dating from the 4th century. This marks a highly important date in the history of Latin writing, for with only one known exception, not yet adequately explained—two fragments of imperial rescripts of the 5th century—the minuscule cursive was consequently the only \"scriptura epistolaris\" of the Roman world. The ensuing succession of documents show a continuous improvement in this form of writing, characterised by the boldness of the strokes and by the elimination of the last lingering majuscule forms. The Ravenna deeds of the 5th and 6th centuries exhibit this hand at its perfection.\n\nAt this period, the minuscule cursive made its appearance as a \"book hand\", first as marginal notes, and later for the complete books themselves. The only difference between the book-hand and that used for documents is that the principal strokes are shorter and the characters thicker. This form of the hand is usually called \"semi-cursive\".\n\nThe fall of the Empire and the establishment of the barbarians within its former boundaries did not interrupt the use of the Roman minuscule cursive hand, which was adopted by the newcomers. But for gaps of over a century in the chronological series of documents which have been preserved, it would be possible to follow the evolution of the Roman cursive into the so-called \"national hands\", forms of minuscule writing which flourished after the barbarian invasions in Italy, France, Spain, England and Ireland, and which are still known as Lombardic, Merovingian, Visigothic, Anglo-Saxon and Irish. These names came into use at a time when the various national hands were believed to have been invented by the peoples who used them, but their connotation is merely geographical. Nevertheless, in spite of a close resemblance which betrays their common origin, these hands are specifically different, perhaps because the Roman cursive was developed by each nation in accordance with its artistic tradition.\n\n\nIn Italy, after the close of the Roman and Byzantine periods, the writing is known as Lombardic, a generic term which comprises several local varieties. These may be classified under four principal types: two for the \"scriptura epistolaris\", the old Italian cursive and the papal chancery hand, or \"littera romana\", and two for the \"libraria\", the old Italian book-hand and Lombardic in the narrow sense, sometimes known as \"Beneventana\" on account of the fact that it flourished in the principality of Benevento.\n\nThe oldest preserved documents written in the old Italian cursive show all the essential characteristics of the Roman cursive of the 6th century. In northern Italy, this hand began in the 9th century to be influenced by a minuscule book-hand which developed, as will be seen later, in the time of Charlemagne; under this influence it gradually disappeared, and ceased to exist in the course of the 12th century. In southern Italy, it persisted far on into the later Middle Ages. The papal chancery hand, a variety of Lombardic peculiar to the vicinity of Rome and principally used in papal documents, is distinguished by the formation of the letters \"a, e, q, t\". It is formal in appearance at first, but is gradually simplified, under the influence of the Carolingian minuscule, which finally prevailed in the bulls of Honorius II (1124–1130). The notaries public in Rome continued to use the papal chancery hand until the beginning of the 13th century. The old Italian book-hand is simply a semi-cursive of the type already described as in use in the 6th century. The principal examples are derived from \"scriptoria\" in northern Italy, where it was displaced by the Carolingian minuscule during the 9th century. In southern Italy, this hand persisted, developing into a calligraphic form of writing, and in the 10th century took on a very artistic angular appearance. The \"Exultet\" rolls provide the finest examples. In the 9th century, it was introduced in Dalmatia by the Benedictine monks and developed there, as in Apulia, on the basis of the archetype, culminating in a rounded \"Beneventana\" known as the \"Bari type\".\n\n\nThe offshoot of the Roman cursive which developed in Gaul under the first dynasty of kings is called Merovingian writing. It is represented by thirty-eight royal diplomas, a number of private charters and the authenticating documents of relics.\n\nThough less than a century intervenes between the Ravenna cursive and the oldest extant Merovingian document (AD 625), there is a great difference in appearance between the two writings. The facile flow of the former is replaced by a cramped style, in which the natural slope to the right gives way to an upright hand, and the letters, instead of being fully outlined, are compressed to such an extent that they modify the shape of other letters. Copyists of books used a cursive similar to that found in documents, except that the strokes are thicker, the forms more regular, and the heads and tails shorter. The Merovingian cursive as used in books underwent simplification in some localities, undoubtedly through the influence of the minuscule book-hand of the period. The two principal centres of this reform were Luxeuil and Corbie.\n\n\nIn Spain, after the Visigothic conquest, the Roman cursive gradually developed special characteristics. Some documents attributed to the 7th century display a transitional hand with straggling and rather uncouth forms. The distinctive features of Visigothic writing, the most noticeable of which is certainly the q-shaped g, did not appear until later, in the book-hand. The book-hand became set at an early date. In the 8th century it appears as a sort of semi-cursive; the earliest example of certain date is ms lxxxix in the Capitular Library in Verona. From the 9th century the calligraphic forms become broader and more rounded until the 11th century, when they become slender and angular. The Visigothic minuscule appears in a cursive form in documents about the middle of the 9th century, and in the course of time grows more intricate and consequently less legible. It soon came into competition with the Carolingian minuscule, which supplanted it as a result of the presence in Spain of French elements such as Cluniac monks and warriors engaged in the campaign against the Moors.\n\nThe Irish and Anglo-Saxon hands, which were not directly derived from the Roman minuscule cursive, will be discussed in a separate sub-section below.\n\nOne by one, the national minuscule cursive hands were replaced by a set minuscule hand which has already been mentioned and its origins may now be traced from the beginning.\n\nThe early cursive was the medium in which the minuscule forms were gradually evolved from the corresponding majuscule forms. Minuscule writing was therefore cursive in its inception. As the minuscule letters made their appearance in the cursive writing of documents, they were adopted and given calligraphic form by the copyists of literary texts, so that the set minuscule alphabet was constituted gradually, letter by letter, following the development of the minuscule cursive. Just as some documents written in the early cursive show a mixture of majuscule and minuscule forms, so certain literary papyri of the 3rd century, and inscriptions on stone of the 4th century yield examples of a mixed set hand, with minuscule forms side by side with capital and uncial letters. The number of minuscule forms increases steadily in texts written in the mixed hand, and especially in marginal notes, until by the end of the 5th century the majuscule forms have almost entirely disappeared in some manuscripts. This quasi-minuscule writing, known as the \"half-uncial\" thus derives from a long line of mixed hands which, in a synoptic chart of Latin scripts, would appear close to the oldest \"librariae\", and between them and the \"epistolaris\" (cursive), from which its characteristic forms were successively derived. It had a considerable influence on the continental \"scriptura libraria\" of the 7th and 8th centuries.\n\nThe half-uncial hand was introduced in Ireland along with Latin culture in the 5th century by priests and laymen from Gaul, fleeing before the barbarian invasions. It was adopted there to the exclusion of the cursive, and soon took on a distinct character. There are two well established classes of Irish writing as early as the 7th century: a large round half-uncial hand, in which certain majuscule forms frequently appear, and a pointed hand, which becomes more cursive and more genuinely minuscule. The latter developed out of the former. One of the distinguishing marks of manuscripts of Irish origin is to be found in the initial letters, which are ornamented by interlacing, animal forms, or a frame of red dots. The most certain evidence, however, is provided by the system of abbreviations and by the combined square and cuneiform appearance of the minuscule at the height of its development. The two types of Irish writing were introduced in the north of Great Britain by the monks, and were soon adopted by the Anglo-Saxons, being so exactly copied that it is sometimes difficult to determine the origin of an example. Gradually, however, the Anglo-Saxon writing developed a distinct style, and even local types, which were superseded after the Norman conquest by the Carolingian minuscule. Through St Columba and his followers, Irish writing spread to the continent, and manuscripts were written in the Irish hand in the monasteries of Bobbio Abbey and St Gall during the 7th and 8th centuries.\n\nJames J. John points out that the disappearance of imperial authority around the end of the 5th century in most of the Latin-speaking half of the Roman Empire does not entail the disappearance of the Latin scripts, but rather introduced conditions that would allow the various provinces of the West gradually to drift apart in their writing habits, a process that began around the 7th century.\n\nPope Gregory I (Gregory the Great, d. 604) was influential in the spread of Christianity to Britain and also sent Queens Theodelinde and Brunhilda, as well as Spanish bishops, copies of manuscripts. Furthermore, he sent the Roman monk Augustine of Canterbury to Britain on a missionary journey, on which Augustine may have brought manuscripts. Although Italy's dominance as a centre of manuscript production began to decline, especially after the Gothic War (535–554) and the invasions by the Lombards, its manuscripts—and more important, the scripts in which they were written—were distributed across Europe.\n\nFrom the 6th through the 8th centuries, a number of so-called 'national hands' were developed throughout the Latin-speaking areas of the former Roman Empire. By the late 6th century Irish scribes had begun transforming Roman scripts into Insular minuscule and majuscule scripts. A series of transformations, for book purposes, of the cursive documentary script that had grown out of the later Roman cursive would get under way in France by the mid-7th century. In Spain half-uncial and cursive would both be transformed into a new script, the Visigothic minuscule, no later than the early 8th century.\n\nBeginning in the 8th century, as Charlemagne began to consolidate power over a large area of western Europe, scribes developed a minuscule script (Caroline minuscule) that effectively became the standard script for manuscripts from the 9th to the 11th centuries. The origin of this hand is much disputed. This is due to the confusion which prevailed before the Carolingian period in the \"libraria\" in France, Italy and Germany as a result of the competition between the cursive and the set hands. In addition to the calligraphic uncial and half-uncial writings, which were imitative forms, little used and consequently without much vitality, and the minuscule cursive, which was the most natural hand, there were innumerable varieties of mixed writing derived from the influence of these hands on each other. In some, the uncial or half-uncial forms were preserved with little or no modification, but the influence of the cursive is shown by the freedom of the strokes; these are known as rustic, semi-cursive or cursive uncial or half-uncial hands. Conversely, the cursive was sometimes affected, in varying degrees, by the set \"librariae\"; the cursive of the \"epistolaris\" became a semi-cursive when adopted as a \"libraria\". Nor is this all. Apart from these reciprocal influences affecting the movement of the hand across the page, there were morphological influences at work, letters being borrowed from one alphabet for another. This led to compromises of all softs and of infinite variety between the uncial and half-uncial and the cursive. It will readily be understood that the origin of the Carolingian minuscule, which must be sought in this tangle of pre-Carolingian hands, involves disagreement. The new writing is admittedly much more closely related to the \"epistolaris\" than the primitive minuscule; this is shown by certain forms, such as the open a (), which recall the cursive, by the joining of certain letters, and by the clubbing of the tall letters b d h l, which resulted from a cursive \"ductus\". Most palaeographers agree in assigning the new hand the place shown in the following table:\n\nControversy turns on the question whether the Carolingian minuscule is the primitive minuscule as modified by the influence of the cursive or a cursive based on the primitive minuscule. Its place of origin is also uncertain: Rome, the Palatine school, Tours, Reims, Metz, Saint-Denis and Corbie have been suggested, but no agreement has been reached. In any case, the appearance of the new hand is a turning point in the history of culture. So far as Latin writing is concerned, it marks the dawn of modern times.\n\nIn the 12th century, Carolingian minuscule underwent a change in its appearance and adopted bold and broken Gothic letter-forms. This style remained predominant, with some regional variants, until the 15th century, when the Renaissance humanistic scripts revived a version of Carolingian minuscule. It then spread from the Italian Renaissance all over Europe.\n\nThese humanistic scripts are the base for the antiqua and the handwriting forms in western and southern Europe. In Germany and Austria, the \"Kurrentschrift\" was rooted in the cursive handwriting of the later Middle Ages. With the name of the calligrapher Ludwig Sütterlin, this handwriting counterpart to the blackletter typefaces was abolished by Hitler in 1941. After World War II, it was taught as an alternative script in some areas until the 1970s; it is no longer taught. Secretary hand is an informal business hand of the Renaissance.\n\nThere are undeniable points of contact between architecture and palaeography, and in both it is possible to distinguish a Romanesque and a Gothic period . The creative effort which began in the post-Carolingian period culminated at the beginning of the 12th century in a calligraphy and an architecture which, though still somewhat awkward, showed unmistakable signs of power and experience, and at the end of that century and in the first half of the 13th both arts reached their climax and made their boldest flights. The topography of later medieval writing is still being studied; national varieties can, of course, be' identified but the problem of distinguishing features becomes complicated as a result of the development of international relations, and the migration of clerks from one end of Europe to the other. During the later centuries of the Middle Ages the Gothic minuscule continued to improve within the restricted circle of \"de luxe\" editions and ceremonial documents. In common use, it degenerated into a cursive which became more and more intricate, full of superfluous strokes and complicated by abbreviations. In the first quarter of the 15th century an innovation took place which exercised a decisive influence on the evolution of writing in Europe. The Italian humanists were struck by the eminent legibility of the manuscripts, written in the improved Carolingian minuscule of the 10th and 11th centuries, in which they discovered the works of ancient authors, and carefully imitated the old writing. In Petrarch's compact book hand, the wider leading and reduced compression and round curves are early manifestations of the reaction against the crabbed Gothic secretarial minuscule we know today as \"blackletter\"; Petrarch was one of the few medieval authors to have written at any length on the handwriting of his time; in his essay on the subject, \"La scrittura\" he criticized the current scholastic hand, with its laboured strokes (\"artificiosis litterarum tractibus\") and exuberant (\"luxurians\") letter-forms amusing the eye from a distance, but fatiguing on closer exposure, as if written for other purpose than to be read. For Petrarch the gothic hand violated three principles: writing, he said, should be simple (\"castigata\"), clear (\"clara\") and orthographically correct. Boccaccio was a great admirer of Petrarch; from Boccaccio's immediate circle this post-Petrarchan \"semi-gothic\" revised hand spread to \"literati\" in Florence, Lombardy and the Veneto. A more thorough reform of handwriting than the Petrarchan compromise was in the offing. The generator of the new style (\"illustration\") was Poggio Bracciolini, a tireless pursuer of ancient manuscripts, who developed the new humanist script in the first decade of the 15th century. The Florentine bookseller Vespasiano da Bisticci recalled later in the century that Poggio had been a very fine calligrapher of \"lettera antica\" and had transcribed texts to support himself—presumably, as Martin Davies points out— before he went to Rome in 1403 to begin his career in the papal curia. Berthold Ullman identifies the watershed moment in the development of the new humanistic hand as the youthful Poggio's transcription of Cicero's \"Epistles to Atticus\". By the time the Medici library was catalogued in 1418, almost half the manuscripts were noted as in the \"lettera antica\". The new script was embraced and developed by the Florentine humanists and educators Niccolò de' Niccoli and Coluccio Salutati. The papal chancery adopted the new fashion for some purposes, and thus contributed to its diffusion throughout Christendom. The printers played a still more significant part in establishing this form of writing by using it, from the year 1465, as the basis for their types. The humanistic minuscule soon gave rise to a sloping cursive hand, known as the Italian, which was also taken up by printers in search of novelty and thus became the italic type. In consequence, the Italian hand became widely used, and in the 16th century began to compete with the Gothic cursive. In the 17th century, writing masters were divided between the two schools, and there was in addition a whole series of compromises. The Gothic characters gradually disappeared, except a few that survived in Germany. The Italian became universally used, brought to perfection in more recent times by English calligraphers.\n\n"}
{"id": "37892672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37892672", "title": "Pittsburgh Whiskey &amp; Fine Spirits Festival", "text": "Pittsburgh Whiskey &amp; Fine Spirits Festival\n\nThe Pittsburgh Whiskey & Fine Spirits Festival is an annual festival celebrating whiskey and spirits in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The festival is sponsored by the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board. Contributions to the event benefit the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. The Pittsburgh festival follows a similar one in Philadelphia. The creation of the festival follows the success of the Pittsburgh Wine Festival. It was conceived as an \"experiential marketplace for spirits.\" It was founded in 2007, amid growth in whiskey's popularity.\n\nThe inaugural event in 2007 focused on featuring whiskeys, ryes and vodkas, which are meant to be consumed \"neat.\" The theme was the Whiskey Rebellion, an important event in Western Pennsylvania history, with information on the history of ryes and whiskeys. In 2008, the offerings were expanded to include cocktails, That year, the sponsors sought to reach the female demographic. The 2009 event sought to reach an even broader audience, especially younger individuals. The 2010 event had a speakeasy decor, with a new focus on cigars.\n\nFor the first time, the 2011 edition, which had a \"Mad Men\" theme, sold out all tickets prior to the beginning of the event. Wigle Whiskey, a new Pittsburgh distillery, was to have been featured, but federal authorities had not yet approved the brand's label design. The \"Adult Chocolate Milk\" specialty drink was well received.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49275846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49275846", "title": "React (media franchise)", "text": "React (media franchise)\n\nReact (sometimes stylized in all caps as REACT) is a media franchise used by the Fine Brothers consisting of several online series centering on a group of individuals reacting to viral videos, trends, video games, film trailers, or music videos. React was also the first react channel on YouTube. The franchise was launched with the YouTube debut of \"Kids React\" in October 2010, and then grew to encompass four more series uploaded on the Fine Brothers' primary YouTube channel, a separate YouTube channel with various reaction-related content, as well as a television series titled \"React to That\".\n\nIn 2016, the duo announced \"React World\", a program and channel in which they would license the format of their \"React\" shows to creators, which led to widespread negative reception from viewers and fellow content creators, as well as confusion about what their format is. This eventually lead to the Fine Brothers to removing all videos related to \"React World\", essentially pulling the plug on the \"React World\" program.\n\nBenny and Rafi Fine launched a series titled \"Kids React\" on October 16, 2010, the first video being \"Kids React to Viral Videos (\"Double Rainbow\", Obama Fail, Twin Rabbits, Snickers Halloween)\". The \"Kids React\" series features The Fine Brothers, off-camera, showing kids ages 4–14 (7-13 as of September 2016, 7-11 as of October 2016) several viral videos or popular YouTubers and having the kids react to the videos.\n\nThe most popular \"Kids React\" episode to date is “Kids React to Gay Marriage\", with over 40.2 million views as of September 2, 2018. The popularity of \"Kids React\" made it possible for the online series to win a special Emmy Award at the 39th Daytime Emmy Awards in 2012. The Emmy Award, that was given in cooperation with AOL, was awarded to the Fine Brothers for \"Best Viral Video Series\". After their Emmy win, the brothers stated, \"Not a lot has changed [after winning the Emmy] other than realizing that there are shows on YouTube like \"React\" that can get similar if not better viewership than mainstream entertainment can.\"\n\nVideos and YouTube stars that have been reacted to by the kids include Smosh (who later reacted to the kids' reactions), planking and President Obama addressing the death of Osama bin Laden, among several other topics. \"Kids React\" has been compared to \"Kids Say the Darndest Things\". In October 2012, the kids of the show were shown videos of the 2012 U.S. Presidential debates. \"Kids React\" won the Streamy Award for Best Non-Fiction or Reality Series in 2013.\n\nDue to the popularity of \"Kids React\", The Fine Brothers spawned a spin-off dubbed \"Teens React\" on November 17, 2011 with \"TEENS REACT TO TWILIGHT\". The show has a similar premise to \"Kids React\", however the younger stars are replaced with teens, some of whom have aged out of the \"Kids React\" series. Due to this, the Fine Brothers are able to show more mature and less \"kid-friendly\" videos such as videos on topics like \"Toddlers & Tiaras\", Rick Perry's \"Strong\" commercial, Amanda Todd's death, and the 2012 U.S. Presidential debates. Other viral videos and YouTube stars that have been reacted to include \"Salad Fingers\", the \"Overly Attached Girlfriend\", \"Gangnam Style\", \"The Hunger Games\" trailer, Shane Dawson, and One Direction, among other topics. Later on The Fine Brothers launched a series named \"Teens React: Gaming\" consisting videos of teens reacting to popular games such as \"Mario Kart 64, Flappy Bird\", and \"Rocket League\". Teens React launched the career of Lia Marie Johnson and also featured some \"famous\" 'reactors' as guest stars, including Lisa Cimorelli, Amy Cimorelli, Lucas Cruikshank (who later appears in Youtubers React), Alex Steele, Jake Short, and Maisie Williams.\n\nThe popularity of \"Kids React\" and \"Teens React\" spawned \"Elders React\" on May 24, 2012 with \"ELDERS REACT TO NYAN CAT\". The Elders React series replaces young children and teenagers with the elderly, including Benny and Rafi's father, Yehuda. Initially starting with topics that have been discussed on the other \"React\" series, they currently discuss about topics that appeals to today's 21st century society such as violent video games and music videos.\n\nThe first episode of \"YouTubers React\" premiered December 6, 2012. The first episode was \"YouTubers React to Viral Videos Ep. #1\". Several notable YouTubers have appeared on the series. Tay Zonday, Rebecca Black and Liam Kyle Sullivan have each reacted to one of their own videos, \"Chocolate Rain,\" \"Friday\" and \"Shoes\" respectively.\n\nOn May 30, 2015, the Fine Brothers announced \"Adults React\", which premiered on July 16 later that year. It consists of people ages 20 to 55, including former stars of \"Teens React\" that have aged out of the series. Depending on the video or topic, \"Adults React\" will be specific of which type of adults are going to be reacting, such as parents or young adults.\n\nThe first episode of \"College Kids React\" premiered on June 23, 2016 with \"College Kids React to The 1975\". This series includes stars who have aged out of \"Teens React\" alongside new stars, as well as stars that have not yet aged out of \"Teens React\" but have begun college. The content of \"College Kids React\" is similar to the content found in \"Teens React\".\n\nIn April 2014, as an April Fool's joke, the Fine Brothers teamed up with Friskies and released \"Cats React\", which went viral. In July 2016 they released another part of \"Cats React\".\n\nIn August 2014, they released \"Celebrities React to Viral Videos\".\n\nIn April 2018, an another April Fools’s joke, they released ‘’Teens React to Nothing’’ where they showed teens a blank screen.\n\nAfter creating four individual successful \"React\" series on their primary YouTube channel, the Fine Brothers launched a separate YouTube channel in 2014, for reaction-related content, simply dubbed \"React\". With the intent of running programming five days a week, the channel launched with five series: \"Games\" (a Let's Play style series with cast members from their primary \"React\" series), \"Advice\" (a series featuring cast members respond to questions from viewers), \"React Remix\" (musical remixes of past \"React\" footage), \"People Vs. Foods\" (a series featuring Reactors taste test \"Weird\" or international foods), and \"Lyric Breakdown\" (a series in which Reactors break down the meaning of various songs). The channel launched with a teen-centered playthrough of \"Goat Simulator\". Similar to the teens, the elders also have played and reacted to video games such as \"Grand Theft Auto V\", \"\" and \"\". Kids and Adults also played and reacted to video games too.\n\nIn early 2014, it was announced that the Fine Brothers made a deal with Ncredible Entertainment, a production studio founded by Nick Cannon to develop a television series for Nickelodeon. The series, dubbed \"React to That\", was \"entirely re-envisioned for television,\" as the reactors \"not only watch and respond to viral videos, but pop out of the reaction room and into showdowns where the clips come to life as each reactor is confronted with a challenge based on the video they just watched.\" Following the announcement of the series, Benny Fine stated, \"All these viewers now watching are also pioneering what it is to be a viewer of content. They follow us through all of our different endeavors, all our different series, and now will have the opportunity to follow us to another medium.\" Nickelodeon ordered 13 episodes to be produced, but only 12 were made and aired.\n\nIn July 2015, the Fine Brothers filed for trademark protection on \"React\" with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). The trademark was filed for \"Entertainment services, namely, providing an ongoing series of programs and webisodes via the internet in the field of observing and interviewing various groups of people.\" The USPTO approved for a 30-day opposition period which was set to begin on February 2, 2016; if no parties filed an opposition to the Fines' trademark request, it would have proceeded through the process. The brothers had previously filed for and been granted trademark registrations for \"Elders React\" and \"Teens React\" in 2013 as well as \"Kids React\" in 2012.\n\nOn January 26, 2016, the Fines announced that they would be launching React World, a way to grant content creators the license to create their own versions of the \"React\" shows. Specifically, the Fine Brothers stated they are licensing the format of their \"React\" shows. A \"Variety\" report detailed that React World would \"aggregate videos in a channel to launch later this year to promote, support and feature fan-produced programming based on their shows.\" The brothers' company, Fine Brothers Entertainment (FBE) stated they would be working with YouTube and ChannelMeter on the launch of React World. FBE also expressed they would be able to monetize \"React\"-style videos uploaded under their license. On monetization, \"Digital Trends\" detailed \"Although licenses are free, React World creators must agree to share 20 percent of AdSense revenue and 30 percent of premium brand deals with FBE.\" Additionally, the Fines stated they will provide ongoing production guidance, creative guidelines, format bibles, and other resources, as well as promotional and technical support to those creators who participated with the brothers on React World.\n\nAlthough YouTube's VP on content partnerships, Kelly Merryman, originally proclaimed \"This is brand-building in the YouTube age — rising media companies building their brands through collaborations with creators around the world,\" the Fine Brothers were met with overwhelmingly negative reception to their React World announcement. \"BBC News\" reported that \"critics of the Fine Brothers have expressed concern they may use the trademarks to stifle competition,\" and quoted one YouTuber who detailed \"People don't trust them because a few years ago when Ellen DeGeneres did a similar video—not that similar, it didn't have the same format or branding—they claimed it was their format.\" Viewers and fellow content creators alike condemned the Fines for their announcement, with \"The Daily Dot\" reporting, \"Backlash poured in on Reddit and social media, and other YouTubers posted their own reactions and parodies of the enthusiastically corporate React World announcement video.\" The backlash led to a dramatic drop in subscribers, with upwards of 675,000 accounts collectively unsubscribing from the React and Fine Bros Entertainment channels as well as recent videos getting many dislikes in protest as of February 22, 2016. \"Mashable\" described that one Reddit post \"ignited a thread of haters, defenders and overall discussion about whether what Fine Brothers Entertainment is doing is fair.\" Ryan Morrison, a gamer, lawyer and Reddit user, declared that he would file a legal challenge to the Fine Brothers' trademark request on \"React\", writing \"These guys didn’t come up with the idea of filming funny reactions from kids. And they certainly don’t own an entire genre of YouTube videos. It wasn’t their idea, and it’s not theirs to own or police.\"\n\nThough there was an overwhelmingly negative response to the React World announcement, other personalities expressed milder opinions; Internet personality Hank Green wrote \"this could actually be a very cool project if it could be divorced from the idea of two very powerful creators attempting to control a very popular YouTube video format. Franchising one of YouTube's biggest shows? Yeah, I’d love to see how that goes.\" \"New York\" reporter Jay Hathaway wrote \"The trademark and React World are dead. And that's a shame, because it was an interesting idea that suffered from tone-deaf execution.\"\n\nAfter seeing the initial backlash from their announcement, The Fine Brothers posted comments on various social media websites including Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, and the comment section of their YouTube announcement video. On Facebook the Fines wrote, \"We do not own the idea or copyright for reaction videos overall, nor did we ever say we did. You don’t need anyone’s permission to make these kinds of videos, and we’re not coming after anyone,\" adding \"We are in no way claiming reaction content in general is our intellectual property. This is purely a voluntary program for people wanting direct support from us, and we continue to be so excited to work with all of you who may want to participate.\" They additionally tweeted \"We're not saying we hold a copyright on reaction videos overall, no one can. We're licensing our specific shows, like TV has done for years.\" The brothers also stated they would \"not be trying to take revenue from other types of reaction videos, and will not be copyright-striking.\" However, other YouTubers have reported multiple copyright related video takedowns. \"The Guardian\" also reported that unrelated channels featuring other groups of people reacting to videos were also removed after takedown requests from the Fine Brothers; the \"Seniors React\" video was noted to be released prior to the Fines launching their \"Elders React\" series. The Fines also posted an update video in response to what they described as \"confusion and negative response\" to React World, in which they try to clear up confusion on what their format encompasses, as well as inviting viewers to e-mail them about any further questions.\n\nUltimately, the Fine Brothers removed all React World videos, and posted a statement on \"Medium\", declaring they have filed the paperwork to rescind all their \"React\" trademarks and applications, will discontinue the React World program, and will release all past Content ID claims. In their post, the brothers expressed \"It makes perfect sense for people to distrust our motives here, but we are confident that our actions will speak louder than these words moving forward.\" Reaction to this \"Medium\" post was negative on Reddit, where users were reported commenting they would not forgive the Fine Brothers.\n\n"}
{"id": "10721277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10721277", "title": "Redshift (theory)", "text": "Redshift (theory)\n\nRedshift is a techno-economic theory suggesting hypersegmentation of information technology markets based on whether individual computing needs are over or under-served by Moore's law, which predicts the doubling of computing transistors (and therefore roughly computing power) every two years. The theory,\nproposed and named by New Enterprise Associates partner and former Sun Microsystems CTO Greg Papadopoulos, categorized a series of high growth markets (redshifting) while predicting slower GDP-driven growth in traditional computing markets (blueshifting). Papadopoulos predicted the result will be a fundamental redesign of components comprising computing systems.\n\nAccording to the Redshift theory, applications \"redshift\" when they grow dramatically faster than Moore's Law allows, growing quickly in their absolute number of systems. In these markets, customers are running out of datacenter real-estate, power and cooling infrastructure. According to Dell Senior Vice President Brad Anderson, “Businesses requiring hyperscale computing environments – where infrastructure deployments are measured by up to millions of servers, storage and networking equipment – are changing the way they approach IT.”\n\nWhile various Redshift proponents offer minor alterations on the original presentation, “Redshifting” generally includes:\n\nThese are companies that drive heavy Internet traffic. This includes popular web-portals like Google, Yahoo, AOL and MSN. It also includes telecoms, multimedia, television over IP, online games like World of Warcraft and others. This segment has been enabled by widespread availability of high-bandwidth Internet connections to consumers through a DSL or cable modem. A simple way to understand this market is that for every byte of content served to a PC, mobile phone or other device over a network, there must exist computing systems to send it over the network.\n\nThese are companies that do complex simulations that involve (for example) weather, stock markets or drug-design simulations. This is a generally elastic market because businesses frequently spend every \"available\" dollar budgeted for IT. A common anecdote claims that cutting the cost of computing by half causes customers in this segment to buy at least twice as much, because each marginal IT dollar spent contributes to business advantage.\n\nThese are companies that aggregate traditional computing applications and offer them as services, typically in the form of Software as a Service (SaaS). For example, companies that deploy CRM are over-served by Moore's Law, but companies that aggregate CRM functions and offer them as a service, such as Salesforce.com, grow faster than Moore's Law.\n\nA prime example of redshift was a crisis at eBay. In 1999 eBay suffered a database crisis when a single Oracle Database running on the fastest Sun machine available (these tracking Moore's law in this period) was not enough to cope with eBay's growth. The solution was to massively parallelise their system architecture.\n\nRedshift theory suggests that traditional computing markets, such as those serving enterprise resource planning or customer relationship management applications, have reached relative saturation in industrialized nations. Thereafter, proponents argued further market growth will closely follow gross domestic product growth, which typically remains under 10% for most countries annually. Given that Moore's Law continues to predict accurately the rate of computing transistor growth, which roughly translates into computing power doubling every two years, the Redshift theory suggests that traditional computing markets will ultimately contract as a percentage of computing expenditures over time.\n\nFunctionally, this means “Blueshifting” customers can satisfy computing requirement growth by swapping in faster processors without increasing the absolute number of computing systems.\n\nPapadopoulos argued that while traditional computing markets remain the dominant source of revenue through the late 2000s, a shift to hypergrowth markets will inevitably occur. When that shift occurs, he argued computing (but not computers) will become a utility, and differentiation in\nthe IT market will be based upon a company's ability to deliver computing at massive scale, efficiently and with predictable service levels, much like electricity at that time.\n\nIf computing is to be delivered as a utility, Nicholas Carr suggested Papadopoulos' vision compares with Microsoft researcher Jim Hamilton, who both agree that computing is most efficiently generated in shipping containers. Industry analysts are also beginning to quantify Redshifting and Blueshifting markets. According to International Data Corporation vice president Matthew Eastwood, \"IDC believes that the IT market is in a period of hyper segmentation... This a class of customers that is Moore's law driven and as price performance gains continue, IDC believes that these organizations will accelerate their consumption of IT infrastructure.”\n\nKey portions of Papadopoulos' theory were first presented by Sun Microsystems CEO Jonathan Schwartz in late 2006. Papadopoulos later gave a full presentation on Redshift to Sun's annual Analyst Summit in February 2007. The term Redshift refers to what happens when electromagnetic radiation, usually visible light, moves away from an observer. Papadopoulos chose this term to reflect growth markets because redshift helped cosmologists explain the expansion of the universe.\n\nPapadopoulos originally depicted traditional IT markets as green to represent their revenue base, but later changed them to “blueshift,” which occurs when a light source moves toward an observer, similar to what would happen during a contraction of the universe.\n\n"}
{"id": "36241461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36241461", "title": "Resistance (creativity)", "text": "Resistance (creativity)\n\nResistance is a mythical concept created by American novelist Steven Pressfield that illustrates the universal force that he claims acts against human creativity. It was first described in his non-fiction book \"The War of Art\" and elaborated in the follow-up books \"Do The Work\" and \"Turning Pro\", and in other essays. It is also a recurring theme in some of his fiction novels such as \"The Legend of Bagger Vance\" and \"The Virtues of War\".\n\nResistance is described in a mythical fashion as a universal force that has one sole mission: to keep things as they are. Pressfield claims that Resistance does not have a personal vendetta against anyone, rather it is simply trying to accomplish its only mission. It is the force that will stop an individual's creative activity through any means necessary, whether it be rationalizing, inspiring fear and anxiety, emphasizing other distractions that require attention, raising the voice of an inner critic, and much more. It will use any tool to stop creation flowing from an individual, no matter what field the creation is in.\n\nPressfield goes on to claim that Resistance is the most dangerous element to one's life and dreams since its sole mission is to sabotage aspirations. He explains steps that human beings can take to overcome this force and keep it subdued so that they can create to their fullest potential, although Resistance is never fully gone.\n\nPressfield's concept of Resistance has been cited by authors such as Seth Godin, David Kadavy, David M. Kelley and Tom Kelley, Eric Liu and the Lincoln Center Institute, Robert Kiyosaki and Sharon Lechter, and Gina Trapani.\n\nPsychologist Frederick Heide has cited Pressfield's book \"The War of Art\" and questioned whether \"fighting\" Resistance is always a helpful metaphor; Heide suggested that such agonistic metaphors could end up \"ironically perpetuating the resistance it predicts.\" Nevertheless, Heide noted, such an agonistic approach to resistance remains widespread in psychotherapeutic thinking. Heide cites a scholarly article that points to some alternative nonagonistic strategies for working with resistance in relational psychoanalytic psychotherapy, personal construct therapy, narrative therapy, motivational interviewing, process-experiential therapy, and coherence therapy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35760474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35760474", "title": "Save Me (U.S. TV series)", "text": "Save Me (U.S. TV series)\n\nSave Me is an American sitcom series starring Anne Heche as Beth Harper, a woman who, after nearly choking to death on a sandwich, becomes a direct pipeline to God. NBC placed a 13-episode series order in May 2012. It debuted on Thursday, May 23, 2013, at 8:00 p.m. Eastern/7:00 p.m. Central and ended on June 13, 2013, after the seventh episode.\n\nMill Creek Entertainment announced the complete series on DVD.\n\n\nCensorship advocacy group One Million Moms (part of the American Family Association) complained about \"Save Me\"'s content in June 2013, accusing it of being anti-Christian, while focusing its complaints on the character of Beth. The group urged others to protest to NBC to cancel the show.\n\n"}
{"id": "54894318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54894318", "title": "Swedification", "text": "Swedification\n\nSwedification refers to the spread of the Swedish language, people and culture or policies which introduced these changes.\n\nFollowing the Treaty of Roskilde, which was one of the treaties that successfully ended the Second Northern War, all areas in the historical region of Skåneland were ceded by Denmark-Norway to the Swedish Empire in early 1658. One of the most important questions for the Swedish Empire was on how to make the Scanians feel like they were Swedish, rather than a part of Denmark. On 16 April 1658, representatives of Scania, Blekinge and Halland's nobility, citizens, clergy and peasants gathered for a day of fury in Malmö Town Hall. On a given sign, the ombuds fell to the knees and promised their new king's faithfulness. The oath was appointed by a secretary. Charles X Gustav was not present himself but was represented by an empty chair surrounded by Swedish soldiers.\n\nIn 1662 a so-called farm day in Malmö was held, where the Scanians accepted new taxes and regulations that differed completely from Danish law. \"Lilla tullen\" (\"the small customs\") was such an idea. All goods brought into the cities would be charged with customs, just as in all Swedish cities. In each city council there should also be at least two Swedish-born people among the councilors. In the same way as in the rest of Sweden, the cities were divided into stacks and settlements. Many nationals also forced into mayor seats. At the same time, the inhabitants of Scania received representation in the Riksdag, unlike other areas that had been conquered by the Swedish Empire.\n\nAs early as when Charles X Gustav landed in Helsingborg in 1658, he met Bishop Peder Winstrup from Lund on the pier. The bishop became a driving force for the establishment of University of Lund as a Swedish counterweight to University of Copenhagen. In 1666 the university was established under the name \"Regia Academia Carolina\". The official opening ceremony took place in January 1668.\n\nThe Swedification of Scania did not begin until about two decades after the Roskilde peace treaty.\n\nJohan Gyllenstierna suggested that it should have been done by forced immigration to the Baltics, something that was never carried out.\n"}
{"id": "26566679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26566679", "title": "Sym-Bionic Titan", "text": "Sym-Bionic Titan\n\nSym-Bionic Titan is an American animated action science fiction television series created by Genndy Tartakovsky, Bryan Andrews, and Paul Rudish for Cartoon Network. The series focuses on a trio made up of the alien princess Ilana, the rebellious soldier Lance, and the robot Octus; the three are able to combine to create the titular Sym-Bionic Titan.\n\nA preview of the series was first shown at the 2009 San Diego Comic-Con International, and further details were revealed at Cartoon Network's 2010 upfront. The series premiered on September 17, 2010, and ended on April 9, 2011. Cartoon Network initially ordered 20 episodes; Tartakovsky had hoped to expand on that, but the series was not renewed for another season, as the show \"did not have any toys connected to it\".\n\nWhile \"Sym-Bionic Titan\" has never been released to DVD in The United States, all 20 episodes were available for purchase on iTunes and the Windows Store. On October 7, 2012, reruns of the series began airing on Adult Swim's Toonami block along with the 2011 television series of \"ThunderCats\".\n\nAs of 2015, Cartoon Network has written off \"Sym-Bionic Titan\" for financial reasons.\n\nBilled as \"an exciting hybrid of high school drama and giant robot battles\", \"Sym-Bionic Titan\" features \"the adventures of three beings from the planet Galaluna who crash-land on Earth while attempting to escape their war-torn world\". The series follows the lives of Lance (voiced by Kevin Thoms), Ilana (Tara Strong) and Octus (Brian Posehn), two alien teens and a robot in the form of humanoids who arrive on Earth, an \"identical\" planet to Galaluna, while fleeing an evil general who has taken over their home planet with the help of monstrous creatures called Mutraddi.\n\nThe three main characters include Ilana, princess of the royal family; Lance, a dark-hearted but capable soldier; and Octus, a bio-cybernetic robot, all of whom must now blend into everyday life in Sherman, Illinois. Posing as high school students, Lance and Octus work to conceal Princess Ilana from General Modula (Don Leslie) and his hideous space mutants sent to kill the sole heir of Galaluna.\n\nWhen called into battle, the Galalunans are outfitted with individual armor that provides more than ample protection. It is when the gravest of danger appears that Octus activates the sym-bionic defense program and he, Ilana, and Lance unite \"Heart, Body and Mind\" and come together to form the spectacular cyber-giant Sym-Bionic Titan.\n\nSeries co-creator Genndy Tartakovsky, known for creating \"Dexter's Laboratory\" and \"Samurai Jack\", drew inspiration from many sources. He grew up with mecha anime series from the 1970s and 1980s like \"Speed Racer\", \"Macross\" and \"Voltron\" and states: \"For whatever reason, I have always loved the idea of kids driving giant robots.\" His biggest influence were John Hughes movies like \"Sixteen Candles\" and \"The Breakfast Club\" as well as 1980s pop culture, but the relationship between the two teenage leads was also inspired by Pazu & Sheeta, the two leads in Hayao Miyazaki's \"Castle in the Sky\".\n\nAn episode of \"Samurai Jack\" with a similar plot, \"Jack and the Flying Prince and Princess\" (having two aliens and a robot fleeing to seek help for their planet), may have also provided inspiration. Tara Strong voiced the princess in said episode as well.\n\nHe came up with Octus and the high-school setting first and then later together with co-creators Paul Rudish and Bryan Andrews added Ilana and Lance as protagonists. The creators of the show took a long time to develop the female lead, Princess Ilana. \"A positive strong female character is something I've always wanted to create\", Tartakovsky said.\n\nTartakovsky called \"Sym-Bionic Titan\" \"the most challenging project I have ever done.\"\nDespite airing on \"Cartoon Network\" Tartakovsky said \"he does not consider \"Sym-Bionic Titan\" a kids show.\"\"\n\nOn March 29, 2011, it was reported that \"Sym-Bionic Titan\" has been canceled due to being unable to acquire a toy license. On September 22, 2014, it was revealed on Adult Swim's Tumblr that both \"Beware the Batman\" and \"Sym-Bionic Titan\" were written off by the network.\nIn a 2018 interview, Tartakovsky revealed that he and his crew had written 10 more episodes before the show was cancelled. \n\n\"Sym-Bionic Titan\" received two nominations at the 38th Annie Awards in 2011: Stephen DeStefano for Best Character Design in a Television Production and Scott Wills for Best Production Design in an Animated Television Production.\n\nThe entire series was released on DVD in Australia from Madman Entertainment on April 6, 2016, five years after the show's cancellation.\n\nOn February 9, 2017, Tartakovsky mentioned during an interview about the revival of his \"Samurai Jack\" TV show on Adult Swim, he also said that he could return to Cartoon Network and bring \"Sym-Bionic Titan\" back on Cartoon Network to end the story of season one and resolve its cliffhanger in the style of Guillermo del Toro's \"Pacific Rim\".\nIlana and Octus made cameo appareances on the \"OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes\" episode \"Crossover Nexus\" that was aired on October 8, 2018. Tara Strong reprises her role as Ilana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59187926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59187926", "title": "The Marrow Thieves", "text": "The Marrow Thieves\n\nThe Marrow Thieves is a young adult novel by Canadian writer Cherie Dimaline, published in 2017 by Cormorant Books through its Dancing Cat Books imprint.\n\nTold in the voice of teenage boy and archetypal reluctant hero Frenchie, the story is set in a dystopian future in which people have lost the ability to dream, with catastrophic psychological results. Indigenous people, who can still dream, are hunted for their marrow to create a serum to treat others.\n\nThe novel won the Governor General's Award for English-language children's literature at the 2017 Governor General's Awards, and the 2017 Kirkus Prize in the young adult literature category. It was one of the books competing in CBC's 2018 Canada Reads competition.\n\nFor \"Quill & Quire\", Jessica Rose wrote that Dimaline's book \"thrusts readers into the complex lives of rich and nuanced characters forced to navigate a world that too closely resembles our own.\" The American \"Kirkus Reviews\" praised the book for its \"tremendous emotional depth and tenderness.\" In \"The Globe and Mail\", Shannon Ozirny wrote that \"Dimaline takes one of the most well-known tropes in YA – the dystopia – and uses it to draw explicit parallels between the imagined horrors of a fictional future and the true historical horrors of colonialism and residential schools\" and called the book \"beautifully written as it is shocking and painful.\"\n"}
{"id": "2612067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2612067", "title": "Tritik", "text": "Tritik\n\nTritik stitching is a small running line of stitching that is gathered tightly. It is often used in African textiles and the designs are much bolder than in most other forms of stitching. This type of stitching is mostly found in Africa. It also played an important role in tie-dyeing.\n"}
{"id": "10123986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10123986", "title": "Ultime grida dalla savana", "text": "Ultime grida dalla savana\n\nUltime grida dalla savana (), also known as by its English title Savage Man Savage Beast, is a 1975 mondo documentary film co-produced, co-written, co-edited and co-directed by Antonio Climati and Mario Morra. Filmed all around the world, its central theme focuses on hunting and the interaction between man and animal. Like many mondo films, the filmmakers claim to document real, bizarre and violent behavior and customs, although some scenes were actually staged. It is narrated by the Italian actor and popular dubber Giuseppe Rinaldi and the text was written by Italian novelist Alberto Moravia.\n\nThis was the first film of Climati's and Morra's Savage Trilogy, which also includes \"Savana violenta\" (\"This Violent World\") and \"Dolce e selvaggio\" (\"Sweet and Savage\"). Arguably the most infamous film of the trilogy, \"Ultime grida dalla savana\" became influential in exploitation cinema by use of cinematographic techniques that were repeated in numerous subsequent Mondo films. Two scenes in particular, a lion attack on a tourist in Namibia and the murder of an indigenous man by a group of mercenaries in South America, have gained notoriety as genuine footage of human death. The film also sparked a rivalry between the team of Climati and Morra and the brothers Alfredo and Angelo Castiglioni. These two teams became the forerunners of the second generation of mondo cinema.\n\nThe film is a depiction of various scenes, usually violent or bizarre, that somehow relate to hunting. Each scenario is presented one after the other with little regard for narrative continuity. The opening scene introduces a Patagonian hunter who hunts stags to survive. The opening credits play over as he chases after a stag, which he ultimately shoots, kills, and beheads. Afterwards, one of the numerous scenes of anti-hunting gatherings is shown, this one in Cape Cod. The attention quickly shifts to wildlife hunting, where a monkey is killed by a leopard, and then a squirrel monkey by an anaconda. The theme changes again to the social hunt of wild game in Australia and Africa. Aborigines hunt kangaroos and other large marsupials with spears and giant bats with boomerangs. Indigenous tribes of Africa hunt large game, including antelope, buffalo, and elephants, in the savanna. Religious ceremonies are also shown, where the African hunters proceed to suck fresh blood from the entrails of an antelope, and the Australian aborigines symbolically bury their prey in dust to placate the spirits of the animals. Lastly, two brothers are arrested after partaking in a form of ritual post-mortem cannibalism of three of their relatives to acquire the hunting skills of the dead.\n\nOther hunting traditions then follow, again rooted in religion. The warriors of the Kuru tribe in Africa commit a sacred act in which they copulate with the ground in belief that it will make the Earth fertile and produce animals for the hunt, and a stag hunt in France, rooted in ancient pagan beliefs of the Gauls, is blessed by a mass before the hunt takes place, during which the hunters and dogs chase and ultimately kill a fleeing stag. In a fox hunt, the Wild Fox Association sabotages the hunting efforts by serving wine laced with a laxative to the hunters and distracting the dogs with an Afghan hound in heat. Their efforts are then connected to species conservation, and to exemplify that hunters are truly concerned in wildlife conservation, Argentine hunters capture an Andean condor to sell to a zoo. A collage of other conservation efforts is shown, including the tagging of white rhinoceroses, grizzly bears and elephants, which are shot with morphine darts. Argentinian deer and elephant seals are physically subdued and marked. Tourists on Africans safaris then come to view the conservation efforts, which the narrator claims to have seemingly negated the animals' violent instincts. This deception is demonstrated with the mauling of a tourist named Pit Dernitz by lions.\n\nAnother anti-hunting demonstration becomes the film's focus, this time on the Isle of Wight. Nudity and intercourse are practiced freely amongst the demonstrators, and this is contrasted with ancient hunter-gathering groups, who had strict rules concerning nudity. The narrator argues that once hunting had left this group of people, so did their rules toward nudity. Also highlighted is the contradiction that though this people are against hunting, thousands of farm-raised animals had to die to support them. The focus changes to Humboldt penguins, which cannot hunt because of polluted waters, and thus seem detached and without focus. This effect is compared to modern day Eskimos, who no longer hunt since the discovery of oil in their homeland and have fallen into depression and melancholy. To reverse the process, several groups of men go out and revive their hunting ways. Reflected in this is a montage of gun ownership, which the film relates to feelings of masculinity, followed by shots of illegal elephant poaching from Africa. To offset the dwindling number of game due to poaching, warriors from the Lobi tribe celebrate the \"Ceremony of Life\", in which they masturbate with ceremonial rods and pour the product into the river, hoping the animals will drink the semen and multiply. Attention shifts to large electronic probes in the Peruvian savanna used to measure the winds of El Niño for optimal fishing conditions. Fishing birds are also electronically tagged so the prime fishing areas can be located based on the birds' fishing habits. This fish frenzy in South America is reflected in the salmon run in Alaska, where kodiak bears hunt and fight for prey.\n\nAn examination of a hunting tradition in northern Europe follows, where falcons assist humans in hunting by catching wild game, such as rabbits and pheasants. Further collaboration with man and animal is highlighted, this time with cheetahs. To demonstrate the cheetah's speed and effectiveness, a chase between a group of cheetahs and ostriches is arranged, in which the birds are hunted down and killed. The next animal collaborators are dogs, which hunt wild boar in Patagonia and a puma which has attacked a herd of sheep and a shepherd. In cities, however, stray dogs are the ones hunted by dog catchers, which the narrator claims demonstrates that the hunt is still active, but the prey has changed. Indios also use dogs to hunt monkeys, but their efforts are compared to mercenaries hunting the Indios themselves to clear them from their native land for development. In one such instance, mercenaries retaliate against a death of a workman by hunting down a group of Indios, one of which they torture, castrate and murder. Various scenes of wildlife are then shown, after which orangutans are hunted to be sold to zoos. The film then ends with the coexistence of man and animal between Erik Zimen, an ecologist, and wolves, the group of animals he wishes to save.\n\nAs their former cinematographer, Climati drew influence from the Mondo films of Gualtiero Jacopetti and Franco Prosperi. The \"cinéma vérité\" styled camera work used in \"Ultime grida dalla savana\" was previously used in \"Africa addio\" in a scene in which the film crew is nearly killed during an uprising in newly independent Ethiopia. The inclusion of lingering Technicolor shots and violence towards animals is also a feature of Jacopetti's \"Mondo cane\" series. Some scenes were also directly lifted from \"Africa addio\" and reused in \"Ultime grida dalla savana.\" David Kerekes and David Slater, authors of \"Killing for Culture: An Illustrated History of Death Film from Mondo to Snuff\", also note that, \"\"Savage Man Savage Beast\" is a slight return to the more encyclopaedic world view of mondo cinema which was prevalent in the 60s,\" demonstrating Climati's early roots in Mondo cinema.\n\nThe songs and musical score used in the film were composed and written by Carlo Savina and Gilbert Kaplan. The songs were sung by Kaplan and Ann Collin. The music resembles Riz Ortolani's score from \"Africa addio\", as most tracks are of a light and upbeat nature, particularly during the opening and closing credits. The arrangement of music to enhance atmosphere and create comic effect also mimics the compositions in \"Africa addio\".\n\nThe film was released in Italy on 24 October 1975, and internationally in 1976. The film fared well in Asia; in 1976, \"Ultime grida dalla savana\" was outgrossed in Hong Kong only by \"Jaws\". Despite this, reception to the film from mainstream movie critics is almost completely negative, although it is well accepted by critics in exploitation film circles: Mark Goodall calls the film a \"remarkable, pseudo-philosophical mondo examination of hunting fixated on the cyclical, the (inter)relationship of the hunter and the hunted\", and Kerekes & Slater also comment that it was, \"The success of \"Savage Man... Savage Beast\" [that] inaugurated the 'savage' trilogy.\"\n\nThe content of the film, particularly the graphic violence and human death, has been criticized as too explicit and exploitative. Robert Firsching of Allmovie states: \n\"Time Out Film Guide\" made similar criticisms of the film's content, calling it \"[a] bloody, blatantly exploitative mess of a movie\", and says it is \"just another opportunity to gawp at raw scenes of sex and (more especially) violence\". Due to its graphic content, the film was also used by James Ferman at the British Academy of Film and Television Arts as an example of the need for film censorship.\n\nThe inclusion of several staged or scripted scenes has made the film a target for critical condemnation. Numerous scenes have been proven fake, including the anti-fox hunting campaign involving the fictional \"Wild Fox Association\" and the murder of the indigenous men by mercenaries. During another wildlife rally, the fabrication of the scene is apparent with the presence of Italian porn star Ilona Staller. The lion attack on Pit Dernitz is also suspected of being a fabrication by film historians.\n\nAlthough staged footage has been included since the early history of Mondo cinema, these scenes are nonetheless targets for critical abashment. Kerekes and Slater call the anti-fox hunt sequence \"self-parody\", and Goodall labels the same scene as \"ludicrous\". The staged scenes of human death have also been criticized for being more exploitative than educational. Aside from his criticism of the film's staged footage, Goodall also points out the reuse of sequences of African tribal hunting and poaching from \"Africa addio\" as a flaw of the film.\n\nDue to its graphic content, \"Ultime grida dalla savana\" has encountered censorship issues with certain countries' film boards. In Australia, the Office of Film and Literature Classification (OFLC) banned both an uncut and cut version of the film in 1976. An appeal filed later that year was denied. Ten years later, the home video distributor Palace Video brought the same cut print before the film board and it received an R18+ rating. The cuts include segments from the lion attack, the torture and murder of the indigenous man by mercenaries, the death of a fox by a pack of hounds, and the death of a stag by a hunter in the opening scene.\n\nThe film faced similar censorship problems for its theatrical release in the United Kingdom, where it was released as \"Zumbalah\". In 1976, nearly 10 minutes were cut before it was passed with an X-rating by the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC). Various scenes of animal cruelty, a race between cheetahs and ostriches, the lion attack, and the mercenaries' hunt of Amazonian natives were all cut from the British release. The scenes of animal cruelty were targeted by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) to be cut from the film, specifically the hunt and disembowelment of a puma. Also in 1976, the Valtion elokuvatarkastamo, the Finnish film classification board, banned the film in Finland in its entirety for the inclusion of scenes of genuine human death.\n\nThe release of \"Ultime grida dalla savana\" initiated a rivalry between Climati and Morra and two other Italian Mondo film makers, Angelo and Alfredo Castiglioni. These two filmmaking teams became the frontrunners of the Mondo genre in the late seventies and early eighties. The Castiglionis had made two previous Mondo films, \"Africa segreta\" and \"Africa ama\", before the release of \"Ultime grida dalla savana\". They later released three additional films: \"Magia nuda\" in 1975, \"Addio ultimo uomo\" in 1978, \"Africa dolce e selvaggio\" in 1982. Climati and Morra made two follow-up films to \"Ultime grida dalla savana\". The first followup, \"Savana violenta\", also known as \"Savage Man Savage Beast no. 2\", was released in 1976. \"Savana violenta\" was slightly less graphic in its depiction of violence. The last film, \"Dolce e selvaggio\", was released in 1983 and consisted partly of outtakes and recycled footage from Climati and Morra's two previous films. Each subsequent release by the two parties would attempt to outperform the previous films with more explicit and shocking content.\n\nThe scenes of human death, which were shot in a manner that resembled an observational documentary, became influential in exploitation cinema, as several subsequent films would use similar filming techniques to lend certain scenes a sense of increased realism. The Mondo film \"Addio ultimo uomo\", directed by the brothers Angelo and Alfredo Castiglioni, includes a scene of \"amateur footage\" that mimics the scene in which mercenaries hunt natives in \"Ultime grida dalla savana\". This scene, in which an African bushman is captured, tortured, and castrated by a rival tribe, has also been proven staged. Again in 1978, the death film \"Faces of Death\" included fabricated \"amateur footage\" that is a reenactment of the death of Pit Dernitz, replacing lions with a bear. Firsching and Goodall also note that \"Ultime grida dalla savana\" was a transitional film within the genre, as it, \"provided a vital link between the 'classic' shockumentaries of the early-mid 1960s and the much crueller mondos of the mid 1970s and beyond.\" \n\nDirector Ruggero Deodato also used this camera style prolifically in his film \"Cannibal Holocaust\", in which a group of filmmakers goes missing after they head into the South American rain forest to make a documentary on local cannibal tribes. In the film, only the team's footage is recovered, which is all shot in the \"cinéma vérité\" style that resembles the \"amateur footage\" in \"Ultime grida dalla savana\". The footage from \"Cannibal Holocaust\" proved so realistic that Deodato was arrested for making a snuff film. Charges were ultimately dropped when he produced the supposedly slain actors for the courts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16993973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16993973", "title": "University of Prizren", "text": "University of Prizren\n\nThe University of Prizren (Albanian: \"Universiteti i Prizrenit\") is a public university located in Prizren, Kosovo. It was originally established in 1962 as the High Pedagogical Institute (\"Shkolla e Lartë Pedagogjike - SHLP\"). It was re-established in 2010 under the present name. It offers bachelor degrees and master degrees in different fields.\n\nUniversity of Prizren is inherited from the High Pedagogical Institute which was established in 1962. The present form of the University started in 2010 with the decision number 01/87 of the government of the Republic of Kosovo. University of Prizren serves the region of Prizren and the Republic of Kosovo by recruiting, developing and educating students to be successful graduates in the labor market of Kosovo, the region and Europe. University of Prizren and its Management is committed to quality enhancement of its learning and teaching and associated activities of the University, in order to strengthen its comparability and standing with other institutions in the region and Europe. The University of Prizren offers studies mainly in Albanian language. Minority languages Bosnian and Turkish are also offered in the Faculty of Education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2172834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2172834", "title": "Ziyuan (book)", "text": "Ziyuan (book)\n\nThe Ziyuan (; or \"Essays on Chinese Characters\") was a Chinese dictionary attributed to the Eastern Jin Dynasty scholar Ge Hong. The original text was lost, and the small modern \"Ziyuan\" recension has 34 headwords, mostly Chinese Buddhist loanword terminology. \n\nThe \"Ziyuan\" is notable for having the first occurrence of the Chinese borrowing \"ta\" (; \"tǎ\"; \"t'a\"; \"tower; pagoda\"). Feng (2004:205) classifies \"ta\" as a \"monosyllabic phonemic loanword,\" and notes:\n塔/\"ta\"/=浮屠/\"futu\"/=浮图/\"futu\"/=佛图/\"futu\"/=数斗波/\"shudoupo\"/=兜婆/\"doupo\"/：Buddhist tower: \"塔,佛堂也 [The \"ta\" is Buddhist tower]\" (字苑), \"作九层浮图 To build the Buddhist tower with nine levels\" (水经注), \"塔亦胡言, 犹宗庙也. [\"ta\" comes from languages of Hu nationalities, it means tower.]\" (魏书). It was borrowed from \"buddhastupa\" of Sanskrit. The process of pronunciation change is as follows: \"Buddhastupa\" \"stupa\" \"tupa\" \"t’ap\". \n\n\n"}
