{"id": "53486424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53486424", "title": "Abortion in Egypt", "text": "Abortion in Egypt\n\nAbortion in Egypt is prohibited by Articles 260–264 of the Penal Code of 1937. However, under Article 61 of the Penal Code, exceptions may be granted in cases of necessity, which has typically been interpreted to permit an abortion necessary to save the life of the pregnant woman. In some cases, this exception has been extended to cases where the pregnancy poses dangers to the pregnant woman's health, and to cases of foetal impairment. A physician can only perform an abortion in such cases when two specialists approve, unless the woman's life is in imminent danger.\n\nAny person who induces an abortion may be imprisoned, and physicians who do so may be sentenced to hard labor. Convictions are uncommon, because the prosecution must prove that the woman was pregnant and the means by which the pregnancy was interrupted.\n\nIn 1998, Muhammad Sayyid Tantawy, the Grand Imam of al-Azhar, issued a fatwa calling for access to abortion for unmarried women who had been raped. In 2004 he approved a draft bill that would permit abortion in the case of rape; the bill was unsuccessful.\n\nDespite legal restrictions, abortions are common. In a 2000 study of 1025 women from six villages in Upper Egypt, 416 were found to have had at least one abortion; among this group, there were 265 abortions per 1000 live births. Abortions are carried out by indigenous methods, at clandestine clinics, or at great expense by private gynecologists.\n\nIn addition, unsafe abortions are common: a 1998 study found that about 20% of obstetric hospital admissions were for post-abortion treatment. One study estimated that between 1995 and 2000, there were 2,079,216 abortions, and 2,542 maternal deaths due to unsafe abortions.\n"}
{"id": "32982694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32982694", "title": "Andrew Duncan, the younger", "text": "Andrew Duncan, the younger\n\nAndrew Duncan, the younger (1773–1832) was a British physician and professor at Edinburgh University.\n\nHe was the son of Andrew Duncan, the elder and his wife Elizabeth Knox, born at Adam Square in Edinburgh on 10 August 1773. His early education was at the High School in Edinburgh. He was then apprenticed (1787–92) to Alexander and George Wood, surgeons of Edinburgh. He graduated M.A. at Edinburgh in 1793, and M.D. 1794.\n\nDuncan studied in London in 1794–5 at the Windmill Street School, under Matthew Baillie, William Cumberland Cruikshank, and James Wilson. He then made two long visits to the continent, studying medical practice in Göttingen, Vienna, Pisa, and Naples, and meeting Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, Johann Peter Frank, Antonio Scarpa, and Lazzaro Spallanzani. Returning to Edinburgh, he became a fellow of the College of Physicians of Edinburgh, and physician to the Royal Public Dispensary, assisting his father also in editing the \"Annals of Medicine\". He later became physician to the Fever Hospital at Queensberry House.\n\nIn 1807, a professorship of medical jurisprudence and medical police was created at Edinburgh, with Duncan as first professor, with an endowment of £100 per annum; but attendance at lectures in this subject was not made compulsory.\n\nFrom 1809 to 1822, he acted as secretary of \"senatus\" and librarian to the university; while from 1816 until his death he was an active member of the college commission for rebuilding the university, including the Adam-Playfair buildings. In 1819 he resigned his professorship of medical jurisprudence on being appointed joint professor with his father of the institutes of medicine. In 1821 he was elected without opposition professor of \"materia medica\".\n\nIn 1827, Duncan had a severe attack of fever, and his strength afterwards gradually declined. He lectured until nearly the end of the session 1831–2, and died at home 45 York Place on 13 May 1832, in his fifty-eighth year.\n\nHe is buried in St Johns Churchyard on Princes Street.\n\nDuncan in 1803 brought out the \"Edinburgh New Dispensatory\", an improved version of William Lewis's work. This became very popular, a tenth edition appearing in 1822. It was translated into German and French, and was several times republished in the United States. He published a supplement to it in 1829. From 1805, he was for many years chief editor of the \"Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal\", which gained a leading position.\n\nIn 1809, he contributed to the \"Transactions\" of the Highland Society a \"Treatise on the Diseases which are incident to Sheep in Scotland\". He also published in 1818 \"Reports of the Practice in the Clinical Wards of the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh\". Perhaps his most distinctive discovery was the isolation of the principle \"cinchonin\" from cinchona, as related in \"Nicholson's Journal\", 2nd ser. volume vi. December 1803. Besides writing copiously in his own \"Journal\", he also wrote occasionally for the \"Edinburgh Review\".\n\n\n\nHe was married to Mary Macfarquhar.\n\n"}
{"id": "42383836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42383836", "title": "Anopheles claviger", "text": "Anopheles claviger\n\nAnopheles claviger is a mosquito species found in Palearctic ecozone covering Europe, North Africa, northern Arabian Peninsula, and northern Asia. It is responsible for transmitting malaria in some of these regions. The mosquito is made up of a species complex consisting of \"An. claviger sensu stricto\" and \"An. petragnani\" Del Vecchio. \"An. petragnani\" is found only in western Mediterranean region, and is reported to bite only animals, hence, it is not involved in human malaria.\n\nIt was on \"An. claviger\" that Giovanni Battista Grassi established the fact that only the female mosquitoes are responsible for transmitting malarial parasite \"Plasmodium falciparum\" in humans.\n\n\"An. claviger\" was known for breeding abundantly in the Åland Islands of Finland. As a result, malaria was endemic in the islands for at least 150 years, with severe malaria outbreaks being recorded in the 17th century, and in 1853 and 1862.\n\n\"Anopheles claviger\" was first described by Johann Wilhelm Meigen in 1804. However due to its close resemblance with other anopheline mosquitoes, the systematics was variously changed. Originally Meigen named it \"Culex claviger\" which he changed it to \"An. bifurcutus\" in 1818. This was for a long period the accepted binomial but soon they realised that Carl Linnaeus had already used the name for the males of \"Culex pipiens\". After a decade James Francis Stephens renamed it \"An. grisescens\" in 1828. A number of scientific names was introduced after they were discovered from one region after another. Some recognised synonyms are:\n\nItalian biologists G. Del Vecchio in 1939 and G. Lupascu in 1941 were the first to notice that \"An. claviger\" comprised two morphologically distinct species. In 1962 M. Coluzzi revised the taxonomic status by classifying \"An. claviger\" as a species complex inclusive of \"An. petragnani\". The species could be identified only on small structural variation in the pupal stages, but is now identified using biochemical and molecular tools.\n\n\"Anopheles claviger\" is found throughout Palearctic ecozone including Afghanistan, Albania, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Moldova, Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Syria, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Uzbekistan, Serbia and Montenegro, extending to Middle East, China and Siberia. Member of the species complex \"An. petragnani\" is found only in western Mediterranean including France and Spain, up to Turkey, and absent from beyond.\n\nFemale \"An. claviger\" is distinguished from other related species from its brownish colour and dark palps. It is also generally larger than others. The proboscis is dark-brown while the antennae are brown. The scales on the wings are dark, evenly distributed without any dark spot. The thorax and abdomen are brown with lighter colour at the posterior end. \"An. petragnani\" are generally darker than typical \"An. claviger\". Males are basically similar but have complex arrangements of setae with dinstinct gonostyle.\n\n\"An. claviger\" adults are most abundant in May and September during which maximum biting on humans takes place. The larval forms are most abundant during cold season from October to the next April. Larvae are generally found in cool and clean water. In the Mediterranean region they are commonly found in wells and water containers (very common in cisterns). In cold area the larvae hibernate during winter but in warmer climate, they do not hibernate although development is slow. Larvae of \"An. petragnani\" are slightly different in that they can tolerate higher water temperature. Therefore they can be found during summer under rockholes, ditches, canals and river banks. Mature larvae develop in the eggs 5 to 7 days after oviposition. Most eggs hatch within the next three days, but some may take up to one month. Females of the second generation (September) generally lay fewer eggs than those of the first generation (May). Egg maturation requires blood meal and about six days are required for blood digestion. Females attack human soon after they mate with males. They bite during broad daylight. Females hardly live inside houses so that biting occurs in open places. Unlike other anopheline mosquitoes which deposit their eggs directly on the water surface, female \"An. claviger\" lays eggs just above the water level but still in the wet area. They are zoophillic in that they bite mostly of large mammals including humans. There is no report \"An. petragnani\" in transmission of human malaria, indicating that they are exclusively zoophillic.\n\n\"An. claviger\" was experimentally used to discover the transmission of human malarial parasite \"P. falciparum\", along with the fact that only female anophelines can transmit malaria. Before 1898 it was not known how malaria was transmitted. The Italian biologist Giovanni Battista Grassi started investigating different mosquito species in the early 1898 on the basis of mosquito-malaria theory. He suspected that only certain species were involved in transmission of malaria. In September Battista reported the presence of malarial parasite in \"An. claviger\" indicating it as malaria vector. Battista performed human experimentation on Abele Sola, who had been a patient for six years in the Hospital of the Holy Spirit (Ospedale di Santo Spirito in Sassia) in Rome. With mutual consent Sola was bitten by malaria-infected mosquitoes for ten nights, and after few weeks he was down with tertian malaria. Battista and his colleagues Amico Bignami, Giuseppe Bastianelli and Ettore Marchiafava continued to demonstrate the same experiments in other patients and were always successful. In November they found the parasites on the gut wall of the infected mosquitoes. \"P. falciparum\"-carrying mosquito was no doubt the causative vector of malaria. They formally announced the discovery at the session of the Accademia dei Lincei on 4 December 1898. This experiment further established that \"An. claviger\" is the sole mosquito species responsible for human malaria in Italy, and other European countries. (In other parts of the world other species of \"Anopheles\" are responsible.) In addition the discovery laid the foundation for prevention of malaria by vector control of mosquitoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "39445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39445", "title": "Anti-psychiatry", "text": "Anti-psychiatry\n\nAnti-psychiatry is a movement based on the view that psychiatric treatment is often more damaging than helpful to patients. It considers psychiatry a coercive instrument of oppression due to an unequal power relationship between doctor and patient and a highly subjective diagnostic process. It has been active in various forms for two centuries.\n\nAnti-psychiatry originates in an objection to what some view as dangerous treatments. Examples include electroconvulsive therapy, insulin shock therapy, and brain lobotomy. An immediate concern is the significant increase in prescribing psychiatric drugs for children. There were also concerns about mental health institutions. All modern societies permit involuntary treatment or involuntary commitment of mental patients.\n\nIn the 1960s, there were many challenges to psychoanalysis and mainstream psychiatry, where the very basis of psychiatric practice was characterized as repressive and controlling. Psychiatrists involved in this challenge included Thomas Szasz, Giorgio Antonucci, R. D. Laing, Franco Basaglia, Theodore Lidz, Silvano Arieti, and David Cooper. Others involved were L. Ron Hubbard, Michel Foucault and Erving Goffman. Cooper coined the term \"anti-psychiatry\" in 1967, and wrote the book \"Psychiatry and Anti-psychiatry\" in 1971. Thomas Szasz introduced the definition of mental illness as a myth in the book \"The Myth of Mental Illness\" (1961), Giorgio Antonucci introduced the definition of psychiatry as a prejudice in the book \"I pregiudizi e la conoscenza critica alla psichiatria\" (1986).\n\nContemporary issues of anti-psychiatry include freedom versus coercion, racial and social justice, iatrogenic effects of antipsychotic medications (unintentionally induced by medical therapy), personal liberty, social stigma, and the right to be different. \n\nThe first widespread challenge to the prevailing medical approach in Western countries occurred in the late 18th century. Part of the progressive Age of Enlightenment, a \"moral treatment\" movement challenged the harsh, pessimistic, somatic (body-based) and restraint-based approaches that prevailed in the system of hospitals and \"madhouses\" for people considered mentally disturbed, who were generally seen as wild animals without reason. Alternatives were developed, led in different regions by ex-patient staff, physicians themselves in some cases, and religious and lay philanthropists. The moral treatment was seen as pioneering more humane psychological and social approaches, whether or not in medical settings; however, it also involved some use of physical restraints, threats of punishment, and personal and social methods of control. And as it became the establishment approach in the 19th century, opposition to its negative aspects also grew.\n\nAccording to Michel Foucault, there was a shift in the perception of madness, whereby it came to be seen as less about delusion, i.e. disturbed judgment about the truth, than about a disorder of regular, normal behaviour or will. Foucault argued that, prior to this, doctors could often prescribe travel, rest, walking, retirement and generally engaging with nature, seen as the visible form of truth, as a means to break with artificialities of the world (and therefore delusions). Another form of treatment involved nature's opposite, the theatre, where the patient's madness was acted out for him or her in such a way that the delusion would reveal itself to the patient.\n\nAccording to Foucault, the most prominent therapeutic technique instead became to confront patients with a healthy sound will and orthodox passions, ideally embodied by the physician. The cure then involved a process of opposition, of struggle and domination, of the patient's troubled will by the healthy will of the physician. It was thought the confrontation would lead not only to bring the illness into broad daylight by its resistance, but also to the victory of the sound will and the renunciation of the disturbed will. \"We must apply a perturbing method, to break the spasm by means of the spasm... We must subjugate the whole character of some patients, subdue their transports, break their pride, while we must stimulate and encourage the others\" (Esquirol, J.E.D., 1816). Foucault also argued that the increasing internment of the \"mentally ill\" (the development of more and bigger asylums) had become necessary not just for diagnosis and classification but because an enclosed place became a requirement for a treatment that was now understood as primarily the contest of wills, a question of submission and victory.\nThe techniques and procedures of the asylums at this time included \"isolation, private or public interrogations, punishment techniques such as cold showers, moral talks (encouragements or reprimands), strict discipline, compulsory work, rewards, preferential relations between the physician and his patients, relations of vassalage, of possession, of domesticity, even of servitude between patient and physician at times\". Foucault summarised these as \"designed to make the medical personage the 'master of madness'\" through the power the physician's will exerts on the patient. The effect of this shift then served to inflate the power of the physician relative to the patient, correlated with the rapid rise of internment (asylums and forced detention).\n\nOther analyses suggest that the rise of asylums was primarily driven by industrialization and capitalism, including the breakdown of the traditional family structures. And that by the end of the 19th century, psychiatrists often had little power in the overrun asylum system, acting mainly as administrators who rarely attended to patients, in a system where therapeutic ideals had turned into mindless institutional routines. In general, critics point to negative aspects of the shift toward so-called \"moral treatments\", and the concurrent widespread expansion of asylums, medical power and involuntary hospitalization laws, in a way that was to play an important conceptual part in the later anti-psychiatry movement.\nVarious 19th-century critiques of the newly emerging field of psychiatry overlap thematically with 20th-century anti-psychiatry, for example in their questioning of the medicalisation of \"madness\". Those critiques occurred at a time when physicians had not yet achieved hegemony through psychiatry, however, so there was no single, unified force to oppose. Nevertheless, there was increasing concern at the ease with which people could be confined, with frequent reports of abuse and illegal confinement. For example, Daniel Defoe, the author of \"Robinson Crusoe\", had previously argued for more government oversight of \"madhouses\" and for due process prior to involuntary internment. He later argued that husbands used asylum hospitals to incarcerate their disobedient wives, and in a subsequent pamphlet that wives even did the same to their husbands. It was also proposed that the role of asylum keeper be separated from doctor, to discourage exploitation of patients. There was general concern that physicians were undermining personhood by medicalizing problems, by claiming they alone had the expertise to judge it, and by arguing that mental disorder was physical and hereditary. The Alleged Lunatics' Friend Society arose in England in the mid-19th century to challenge the system and campaign for rights and reforms. In the United States, Elizabeth Packard published a series of books and pamphlets describing her experiences in the Illinois insane asylum to which her husband had had her committed.\n\nThroughout, the class nature of mental hospitals, and their role as agencies of control, were well recognized. And the new psychiatry was partially challenged by two powerful social institutions – the church and the legal system. These trends have been thematically linked to the later 20th century anti-psychiatry movement.\n\nAs psychiatry became more professionally established during the nineteenth century (the term itself was coined in 1808 in Germany, as \"Psychiatriein\") and developed allegedly more invasive treatments, opposition increased. In the Southern US, black slaves and abolitionists encountered Drapetomania, a pseudo-scientific diagnosis for why slaves ran away from their masters.\n\nThere was some organized challenge to psychiatry in the late 1870s from the new speciality of neurology. Practitioners criticized mental hospitals for failure to conduct scientific research and adopt the modern therapeutic methods such as nonrestraint. Together with lay reformers and social workers, neurologists formed the National Association for the Protection of the Insane and the Prevention of Insanity. However, when the lay members questioned the competence of asylum physicians to even provide proper care at all, the neurologists withdrew their support and the association floundered.\n\nIt has been noted that \"the most persistent critics of psychiatry have always been former mental hospital patients\", but that very few were able to tell their stories publicly or to confront the psychiatric establishment openly, and those who did so were commonly considered so extreme in their charges that they could seldom gain credibility. In the early 20th century, ex-patient Clifford W. Beers campaigned to improve the plight of individuals receiving public psychiatric care, particularly those committed to state institutions, publicizing the issues in his book, \"A Mind that Found Itself\" (1908). While Beers initially condemned psychiatrists for tolerating mistreatment of patients, and envisioned more ex-patient involvement in the movement, he was influenced by Adolf Meyer and the psychiatric establishment, and toned down his hostility since he needed their support for reforms.\n\nHis reliance on rich donors and his need for approval from experts led him to hand over to psychiatrists the organization he helped found, the National Committee for Mental Hygiene which eventually became the National Mental Health Association. In the UK, the National Society for Lunacy Law Reform was established in 1920 by angry ex-patients who sought justice for abuses committed in psychiatric custody, and were aggrieved that their complaints were patronisingly discounted by the authorities, who were seen to value the availability of medicalized internment as a 'whitewashed' extrajudicial custodial and punitive process. In 1922, ex-patient Rachel Grant-Smith added to calls for reform of the system of neglect and abuse she had suffered by publishing \"The Experiences of an Asylum Patient\". In the US, We Are Not Alone (WANA) was founded by a group of patients at Rockland State Hospital in New York, and continued to meet as an ex-patient group.\n\nIn the 1920s extreme hostility to psychiatrists and psychiatry was expressed by the French playwright and theater director Antonin Artaud, in particular, in his book on van Gogh. To Artaud, imagination was reality. Much influenced by the Dada and surrealist enthusiasms of the day, he considered dreams, thoughts and visions no less real than the \"outside\" world. To Artaud, reality appeared little more than a convenient consensus, the same kind of consensus an audience accepts when they enter a theater and, for a time, are happy to pretend what they're seeing is real.\n\nIn this era before penicillin was discovered, eugenics was popular. People believed diseases of the mind could be passed on so compulsory sterilization of the mentally ill was enacted in many countries.\n\nIn the 1930s several controversial medical practices were introduced, including inducing seizures (by electroshock, insulin or other drugs) or cutting parts of the brain apart (lobotomy). In the US, between 1939 and 1951, over 50,000 lobotomy operations were performed in mental hospitals. But lobotomy was ultimately seen as too invasive and brutal.\n\nHolocaust historians argued that the medicalization of social programs and systematic euthanasia of people in German mental institutions in the 1930s provided the institutional, procedural, and doctrinal origins of the mass murder of the 1940s. The Nazi programs were called Action T4 and Action 14f13. The Nuremberg Trials convicted a number of psychiatrists who held key positions in Nazi regimes. For instance this idea of a Swiss psychiatrist: \"A not so easy question to be answered is whether it should be allowed to destroy lives objectively 'unworthy of living' without the expressed request of its bearers. (...) Even in incurable mentally ill ones suffering seriously from hallucinations and melancholic depressions and not being able to act, to a medical colleague I would ascript the right and in serious cases the duty to shorten — often for many years — the suffering\" (Bleuler, Eugen, 1936: \"Die naturwissenschaftliche Grundlage der Ethik\". Schweizer Archiv Neurologie und Psychiatrie, Band 38, Nr.2, S. 206).\n\nThe post-World War II decades saw an enormous growth in psychiatry; many Americans were persuaded that psychiatry and psychology, particularly psychoanalysis, were a key to happiness. Meanwhile, most hospitalized mental patients received at best decent custodial care, and at worst, abuse and neglect.\n\nThe psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan has been identified as an influence on later anti-psychiatry theory in the UK, and as being the first, in the 1940s and 50s, to professionally challenge psychoanalysis to reexamine its concepts and to appreciate psychosis as understandable. Other influences on Lacan included poetry and the surrealist movement, including the poetic power of patients' experiences. Critics disputed this and questioned how his descriptions linked to his practical work. The names that came to be associated with the anti-psychiatry movement knew of Lacan and acknowledged his contribution even if they did not entirely agree. The psychoanalyst Erich Fromm is also said to have articulated, in the 1950s, the secular humanistic concern of the coming anti-psychiatry movement. In \"The Sane Society\" (1955), Fromm wrote \"\"An unhealthy society is one which creates mutual hostility [and] distrust, which transforms man into an instrument of use and exploitation for others, which deprives him of a sense of self, except inasmuch as he submits to others or becomes an automaton\"...\"Yet many psychiatrists and psychologists refuse to entertain the idea that society as a whole may be lacking in sanity. They hold that the problem of mental health in a society is only that of the number of 'unadjusted' individuals, and not of a possible unadjustment of the culture itself\".\n\nIn the 1950s new psychiatric drugs, notably the antipsychotic chlorpromazine, slowly came into use. Although often accepted as an advance in some ways, there was opposition, partly due to serious adverse effects such as tardive dyskinesia, and partly due their \"chemical straitjacket\" effect and their alleged use to control and intimidate patients. Patients often opposed psychiatry and refused or stopped taking the drugs when not subject to psychiatric control. There was also increasing opposition to the large-scale use of psychiatric hospitals and institutions, and attempts were made to develop services in the community.\n\nIn 1950, Scientology was founded by L. Ron Hubbard who publicly stated a goal of \"eradicating psychiatry from the face of this earth\". Instead through his book the discredited use of introspection as treatment as well as auditing was promoted. \n\nIn the 1950s in the United States, a right-wing anti-mental health movement opposed psychiatry, seeing it as liberal, left-wing, subversive and anti-American or pro-Communist. There were widespread fears that it threatened individual rights and undermined moral responsibility. An early skirmish was over the Alaska Mental Health Bill, where the right wing protestors were joined by the emerging Scientology movement.\n\nThe field of psychology sometimes came into opposition with psychiatry. Behaviorists argued that mental disorder was a matter of learning not medicine; for example, Hans Eysenck argued that psychiatry \"really has no role to play\". The developing field of clinical psychology in particular came into close contact with psychiatry, often in opposition to its methods, theories and territories.\n\nComing to the fore in the 1960s, \"anti-psychiatry\" (a term first used by David Cooper in 1967) defined a movement that vocally challenged the fundamental claims and practices of mainstream psychiatry. While most of its elements had precedents in earlier decades and centuries, in the 1960s it took on a national and international character, with access to the mass media and incorporating a wide mixture of grassroots activist organizations and prestigious professional bodies.\n\nCooper was a South African psychiatrist working in Britain. A trained Marxist revolutionary, he argued that the political context of psychiatry and its patients had to be highlighted and radically challenged, and warned that the fog of individualized therapeutic language could take away people's ability to see and challenge the bigger social picture. He spoke of having a goal of \"non-psychiatry\" as well as anti-psychiatry.\n\nThe psychiatrists R D Laing (from Scotland), Theodore Lidz (from America), Silvano Arieti (from Italy) and others, argued that \"schizophrenia\" and psychosis were understandable, and resulted from injuries to the inner self-inflicted by psychologically invasive \"schizophrenogenic\" parents or others. It was sometimes seen as a transformative state involving an attempt to cope with a sick society. Laing, however, partially dissociated himself from his colleague Cooper's term \"anti-psychiatry\". Laing had already become a media icon through bestselling books (such as \"The Divided Self\" and \"The Politics of Experience\") discussing mental distress in an interpersonal existential context; Laing was somewhat less focused than his colleague Cooper on wider social structures and radical left wing politics, and went on to develop more romanticized or mystical views (as well as equivocating over the use of diagnosis, drugs and commitment). Although the movement originally described as anti-psychiatry became associated with the general counter-culture movement of the 1960s, Lidz and Arieti never became involved in the latter. Franco Basaglia promoted anti-psychiatry in Italy and secured reforms to mental health law there.\n\nLaing, through the Philadelphia Association founded with Cooper in 1965, set up over 20 therapeutic communities including Kingsley Hall, where staff and residents theoretically assumed equal status and any medication used was voluntary. Non-psychiatric Soteria houses, starting in the United States, were also developed as were various ex-patient-led services.\n\nPsychiatrist Thomas Szasz argued that \"mental illness\" is an inherently incoherent combination of a medical and a psychological concept. He opposed the use of psychiatry to forcibly detain, treat, or excuse what he saw as mere deviance from societal norms or moral conduct. As a libertarian, Szasz was concerned that such usage undermined personal rights and moral responsibility. Adherents of his views referred to \"the myth of mental illness\", after Szasz's controversial 1961 book of that name (based on a paper of the same name that Szasz had written in 1957 that, following repeated rejections from psychiatric journals, had been published in the American Psychologist in 1960). Although widely described as part of the main anti-psychiatry movement, Szasz actively rejected the term and its adherents; instead, in 1969, he collaborated with Scientology to form the Citizens Commission on Human Rights. It was later noted that the view that insanity was not in most or even in any instances a \"medical\" entity, but a moral issue, was also held by Christian Scientists and certain Protestant fundamentalists, as well as Szasz. Szasz was not a Scientologist himself and was non-religious; he commented frequently on the parallels between religion and psychiatry.\n\nErving Goffman, Gilles Deleuze, Félix Guattari and others criticized the power and role of psychiatry in society, including the use of \"total institutions\" and the use of models and terms that were seen as stigmatizing. The French sociologist and philosopher Foucault, in his 1961 publication \"Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason\", analyzed how attitudes towards those deemed \"insane\" had changed as a result of changes in social values. He argued that psychiatry was primarily a tool of social control, based historically on a \"great confinement\" of the insane and physical punishment and chains, later exchanged in the moral treatment era for psychological oppression and internalized restraint. American sociologist Thomas Scheff applied labeling theory to psychiatry in 1966 in \"Being Mentally Ill\". Scheff argued that society views certain actions as deviant and, in order to come to terms with and understand these actions, often places the label of mental illness on those who exhibit them. Certain expectations are then placed on these individuals and, over time, they unconsciously change their behavior to fulfill them.\n\nObservation of the abuses of psychiatry in the Soviet Union in the so-called Psikhushka hospitals also led to questioning the validity of the practice of psychiatry in the West. In particular, the diagnosis of many political dissidents with schizophrenia led some to question the general diagnosis and punitive usage of the label schizophrenia. This raised questions as to whether the schizophrenia label and resulting involuntary psychiatric treatment could not have been similarly used in the West to subdue rebellious young people during family conflicts.\n\nNew professional approaches were developed as an alternative or reformist complement to psychiatry. \"The Radical Therapist\", a journal begun in 1971 in North Dakota by Michael Glenn, David Bryan, Linda Bryan, Michael Galan and Sara Glenn, challenged the psychotherapy establishment in a number of ways, raising the slogan \"Therapy means change, not adjustment.\" It contained articles that challenged the professional mediator approach, advocating instead revolutionary politics and authentic community making. Social work, humanistic or existentialist therapies, family therapy, counseling and self-help and clinical psychology developed and sometimes opposed psychiatry.\n\nPsychoanalysis was increasingly criticized as unscientific or harmful. Contrary to the popular view, critics and biographers of Freud, such as Alice Miller, Jeffrey Masson and Louis Breger, argued that Freud did not grasp the nature of psychological trauma. Non-medical collaborative services were developed, for example therapeutic communities or Soteria houses.\n\nThe psychoanalytically trained psychiatrist Szasz, although professing fundamental opposition to what he perceives as medicalization and oppressive or excuse-giving \"diagnosis\" and forced \"treatment\", was not opposed to other aspects of psychiatry (for example attempts to \"cure-heal souls\", although he also characterizes this as non-medical). Although generally considered anti-psychiatry by others, he sought to dissociate himself politically from a movement and term associated with the radical left-wing. In a 1976 publication \"Anti-psychiatry: The paradigm of a plundered mind\", which has been described as an overtly political condemnation of a wide sweep of people, Szasz claimed Laing, Cooper and all of anti-psychiatry consisted of \"self-declared socialists, communists, or at least anti-capitalists and collectivists\". While saying he shared some of their critique of the psychiatric system, Szasz compared their views on the social causes of distress/deviance to those of anti-capitalist anti-colonialists who claimed that Chilean poverty was due to plundering by American companies, a comment Szasz made not long after a CIA-backed coup had deposed the democratically elected Chilean president and replaced him with Pinochet. Szasz argued instead that distress/deviance is due to the flaws or failures of individuals in their struggles in life.\n\nThe anti-psychiatry movement was also being driven by individuals with adverse experiences of psychiatric services. This included those who felt they had been harmed by psychiatry or who felt that they could have been helped more by other approaches, including those compulsorily (including via physical force) admitted to psychiatric institutions and subjected to compulsory medication or procedures. During the 1970s, the anti-psychiatry movement was involved in promoting restraint from many practices seen as psychiatric abuses.\n\nThe gay rights movement continued to challenge the classification of homosexuality as a mental illness and in 1974, in a climate of controversy and activism, the American Psychiatric Association membership (following a unanimous vote by the trustees in 1973) voted by a small majority (58%) to remove it as an illness category from the DSM, replacing it with a category of \"sexual orientation disturbance\" and then \"ego-dystonic homosexuality,\" which was deleted in 1987, although \"gender identity disorder\" (a widely used term for gender dysphoria) and a wide variety of \"paraphilias\" remain. It has been noted that gay activists at the time adopted many of Szasz's arguments against the psychiatric system, but also that Szasz had written in 1965 that: \"I believe it is very likely that homosexuality is, indeed, a disease in the second sense [expression of psychosexual immaturity] and perhaps sometimes even in the stricter sense [a condition somewhat similar to ordinary organic maladies perhaps caused by genetic error or endocrine imbalance. Nevertheless, if we believe that by categorising homosexuality as a disease we have succeeded in removing it from the realm of moral judgement, we are in error.\"\n\nIncreased legal and professional protections, and a merging with human rights and disability rights movements, added to anti-psychiatry theory and action.\n\nAnti-psychiatry came to challenge a \"biomedical\" focus of psychiatry (defined to mean genetics, neurochemicals and pharmaceutic drugs). There was also opposition to the increasing links between psychiatry and pharmaceutical companies, which were becoming more powerful and were increasingly claimed to have excessive, unjustified and underhand influence on psychiatric research and practice. There was also opposition to the codification of, and alleged misuse of, psychiatric diagnoses into manuals, in particular the American Psychiatric Association, which publishes the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\".\n\nAnti-psychiatry increasingly challenged alleged psychiatric pessimism and institutionalized alienation regarding those categorized as mentally ill. An emerging consumer/survivor movement often argues for full recovery, empowerment, self-management and even full liberation. Schemes were developed to challenge stigma and discrimination, often based on a social model of disability; to assist or encourage people with mental health issues to engage more fully in work and society (for example through social firms), and to involve service users in the delivery and evaluation of mental health services. However, those actively and openly challenging the fundamental ethics and efficacy of mainstream psychiatric practice remained marginalized within psychiatry, and to a lesser extent within the wider mental health community.\n\nThree authors came to personify the movement against psychiatry, and two of these were practicising psychiatrists. The initial and most influential of these was Thomas Szasz who rose to fame with his book \"The Myth of Mental Illness\", although Szasz himself did not identify as an anti-psychiatrist. The well-respected R D Laing wrote a series of best-selling books, including \"The Divided Self\". Intellectual philosopher Michel Foucault challenged the very basis of psychiatric practice and cast it as repressive and controlling. The term \"anti-psychiatry\" was coined by David Cooper in 1967. In parallel with the theoretical production of the mentioned authors, the Italian physician Giorgio Antonucci questioned the basis themselves of psychiatry through the dismantling of the psychiatric hospitals\" Osservanza\" and \"Luigi Lolli\" and the liberation – and restitution to life – of the people there secluded.\n\nIn recent years, psychotherapists David Smail and Bruce E. Levine, considered part of the anti-psychiatry movement, have written widely on how society, culture, politics and psychology intersect. They have written extensively of the \"embodied nature\" of the individual in society, and the unwillingness of even therapists to acknowledge the obvious part played by power and financial interest in modern Western society. They argue that feelings and emotions are not, as is commonly supposed, features of the individual, but rather responses of the individual to their situation in society. Even psychotherapy, they suggest, can only change feelings in as much as it helps a person to change the \"proximal\" and \"distal\" influences on their life, which range from family and friends, to the workplace, socio-economics, politics and culture.\n\nR. D. Laing emphasized family nexus as a mechanism whereby individuals become victimized by those around them, and spoke about a dysfunctional society.\n\nAn etiology common to bipolar spectrum disorders has not been identified. Patients cannot be identified just by clinical interviews. A neurobiological basis of bipolar disorder has not been discovered. In making a bipolar spectrum disorder diagnosis based solely on a clinical interview, a false positive cannot be avoided.\n\nPsychiatrists have been trying to differentiate mental disorders based on clinical interviews since the era of Kraepelin, but now realize that their diagnostic criteria are imperfect. Tadafumi Kato writes, \"We psychiatrists should be aware that we cannot identify 'diseases' only by interviews. What we are doing now is just like trying to diagnose diabetes mellitus without measuring blood sugar.\"\n\nIn 2013, psychiatrist Allen Frances said that \"psychiatric diagnosis still relies exclusively on fallible subjective judgments rather than objective biological tests\".\n\nReasons have been put forward to doubt the ontic status of mental disorders. Mental disorders engender ontological skepticism on three levels:\n\nIn the scientific and academic literature on the definition or classification of mental disorder, one extreme argues that it is entirely a matter of value judgements (including of what is normal) while another proposes that it is or could be entirely objective and scientific (including by reference to statistical norms). Common hybrid views argue that the concept of mental disorder is objective but a \"fuzzy prototype\" that can never be precisely defined, or alternatively that it inevitably involves a mix of scientific facts and subjective value judgments.\n\nOne remarkable example of psychiatric diagnosis being used to reinforce cultural bias and oppress dissidence is the diagnosis of drapetomania. In the US prior to the American Civil War, physicians such as Samuel A. Cartwright diagnosed some slaves with drapetomania, a mental illness in which the slave possessed an irrational desire for freedom and a tendency to try to escape. By classifying such a dissident mental trait as abnormal and a disease, psychiatry promoted cultural bias about normality, abnormality, health, and unhealth. This example indicates the probability for not only cultural bias but also confirmation bias and bias blind spot in psychiatric diagnosis and psychiatric beliefs.\n\nIt has been argued by philosophers like Foucault that characterizations of \"mental illness\" are indeterminate and reflect the hierarchical structures of the societies from which they emerge rather than any precisely defined qualities that distinguish a \"healthy\" mind from a \"sick\" one. Furthermore, if a tendency toward self-harm is taken as an elementary symptom of mental illness, then humans, \"as a species\", are arguably insane in that they have tended throughout recorded history to destroy their own environments, to make war with one another, etc.\n\nMental disorders were first included in the sixth revision of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-6) in 1949. Three years later, the American Psychiatric Association created its own classification system, DSM-I. The definitions of most psychiatric diagnoses consist of combinations of phenomenological criteria, such as symptoms and signs and their course over time. Expert committees combined them in variable ways into categories of mental disorders, defined and redefined them again and again over the last half century.\n\nThe majority of these diagnostic categories are called \"disorders\" and are not validated by biological criteria, as most medical diseases are; although they purport to represent medical diseases and take the form of medical diagnoses. These diagnostic categories are actually embedded in top-down classifications, similar to the early botanic classifications of plants in the 17th and 18th centuries, when experts decided a priori about which classification criterion to use, for instance, whether the shape of leaves or fruiting bodies were the main criterion for classifying plants. Since the era of Kraepelin, psychiatrists have been trying to differentiate mental disorders by using clinical interviews.\n\nIn 1972, psychologist David Rosenhan published the Rosenhan experiment, a study questioning the validity of psychiatric diagnoses. The study arranged for eight individuals with no history of psychopathology to attempt admission into psychiatric hospitals. The individuals included a graduate student, psychologists, an artist, a housewife, and two physicians, including one psychiatrist. All eight individuals were admitted with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Psychiatrists then attempted to treat the individuals using psychiatric medication. All eight were discharged within 7 to 52 days. In a later part of the study, psychiatric staff were warned that pseudo-patients might be sent to their institutions, but none were actually sent. Nevertheless, a total of 83 patients out of 193 were believed by at least one staff member to be actors. The study concluded that individuals without mental disorders were indistinguishable from those suffering from mental disorders.\n\nCritics such as Robert Spitzer placed doubt on the validity and credibility of the study, but did concede that the consistency of psychiatric diagnoses needed improvement. It is now realized that the psychiatric diagnostic criteria are not perfect. To further refine psychiatric diagnosis, according to Tadafumi Kato, the only way is to create a new classification of diseases based on the neurobiological features of each mental disorder. On the other hand, according to Heinz Katsching, neurologists are advising psychiatrists just to replace the term \"mental illness\" by \"brain illness.\"\n\nThere are recognized problems regarding the diagnostic reliability and validity of mainstream psychiatric diagnoses, both in ideal and controlled circumstances and even more so in routine clinical practice (McGorry \"et al.\". 1995). Criteria in the principal diagnostic manuals, the DSM and ICD, are inconsistent. Some psychiatrists who criticize their own profession say that comorbidity, when an individual meets criteria for two or more disorders, is the rule rather than the exception. There is much overlap and vaguely defined or changeable boundaries between what psychiatrists claim are distinct illness states.\n\nThere are also problems with using standard diagnostic criteria in different countries, cultures, genders or ethnic groups. Critics often allege that Westernized, white, male-dominated psychiatric practices and diagnoses disadvantage and misunderstand those from other groups. For example, several studies have shown that African Americans are more often diagnosed with schizophrenia than Caucasians, and men more than women. Some within the anti-psychiatry movement are critical of the use of diagnosis as it conforms with the biomedical model.\n\nAccording to Franco Basaglia, Giorgio Antonucci, Bruce E. Levine and Edmund Schönenberger whose approach pointed out the role of psychiatric institutions in the control and medicalization of deviant behaviors and social problems, psychiatry is used as the provider of scientific support for social control to the existing establishment, and the ensuing standards of deviance and normality brought about repressive views of discrete social groups. According to Mike Fitzpatrick, resistance to medicalization was a common theme of the gay liberation, anti-psychiatry, and feminist movements of the 1970s, but now there is actually no resistance to the advance of government intrusion in lifestyle if it is thought to be justified in terms of public health.\n\nIn the opinion of Mike Fitzpatrick, the pressure for medicalization also comes from society itself. As one example, Fitzpatrick claims that feminists who once opposed state intervention as oppressive and patriarchal, now demand more coercive and intrusive measures to deal with child abuse and domestic violence. According to Richard Gosden, the use of psychiatry as a tool of social control is becoming obvious in preventive medicine programmes for various mental diseases. These programmes are intended to identify children and young people with divergent behavioral patterns and thinking and send them to treatment before their supposed mental diseases develop. Clinical guidelines for best practice in Australia include the risk factors and signs which can be used to detect young people who are in need of prophylactic drug treatment to prevent the development of schizophrenia and other psychotic conditions.\n\nCritics of psychiatry commonly express a concern that the path of diagnosis and treatment in contemporary society is primarily or overwhelmingly shaped by profit prerogatives, echoing a common criticism of general medical practice in the United States, where many of the largest psychopharmaceutical producers are based.\n\nPsychiatric research has demonstrated varying degrees of efficacy for improving or managing a number of mental health disorders through either medications, psychotherapy, or a combination of the two. Typical psychiatric medications include stimulants, antidepressants, anxiolytics, and antipsychotics (neuroleptics).\n\nOn the other hand, organizations such as MindFreedom International and World Network of Users and Survivors of Psychiatry maintain that psychiatrists exaggerate the evidence of medication and minimize the evidence of adverse drug reaction. They and other activists believe individuals are not given balanced information, and that current psychiatric medications do not appear to be specific to particular disorders in the way mainstream psychiatry asserts; and psychiatric drugs not only fail to correct measurable chemical imbalances in the brain, but rather induce undesirable side effects. For example, though children on Ritalin and other psycho-stimulants become more obedient to parents and teachers, critics have noted that they can also develop abnormal movements such as tics, spasms and other involuntary movements. This has not been shown to be directly related to the therapeutic use of stimulants, but to neuroleptics. The diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder on the basis of inattention to compulsory schooling also raises critics' concerns regarding the use of psychoactive drugs as a means of unjust social control of children.\n\nThe influence of pharmaceutical companies is another major issue for the anti-psychiatry movement. As many critics from within and outside of psychiatry have argued, there are many financial and professional links between psychiatry, regulators, and pharmaceutical companies. Drug companies routinely fund much of the research conducted by psychiatrists, advertise medication in psychiatric journals and conferences, fund psychiatric and healthcare organizations and health promotion campaigns, and send representatives to lobby general physicians and politicians. Peter Breggin, Sharkey, and other investigators of the psycho-pharmaceutical industry maintain that many psychiatrists are members, shareholders or special advisors to pharmaceutical or associated regulatory organizations.\n\nThere is evidence that research findings and the prescribing of drugs are influenced as a result. A United Kingdom cross-party parliamentary inquiry into the influence of the pharmaceutical industry in 2005 concludes: \"The influence of the pharmaceutical industry is such that it dominates clinical practice\" and that there are serious regulatory failings resulting in \"the unsafe use of drugs; and the increasing medicalization of society\". The campaign organization \"No Free Lunch\" details the prevalent acceptance by medical professionals of free gifts from pharmaceutical companies and the effect on psychiatric practice. The ghostwriting of articles by pharmaceutical company officials, which are then presented by esteemed psychiatrists, has also been highlighted. Systematic reviews have found that trials of psychiatric drugs that are conducted with pharmaceutical funding are several times more likely to report positive findings than studies without such funding.\n\nThe number of psychiatric drug prescriptions have been increasing at an extremely high rate since the 1950s and show no sign of abating. In the United States antidepressants and tranquilizers are now the top selling class of prescription drugs, and neuroleptics and other psychiatric drugs also rank near the top, all with expanding sales. As a solution to the apparent conflict of interests, critics propose legislation to separate the pharmaceutical industry from the psychiatric profession.\n\nJohn Read and Bruce E. Levine have advanced the idea of socioeconomic status as a significant factor in the development and prevention of mental disorders such as schizophrenia and have noted the reach of pharmaceutical companies through industry sponsored websites as promoting a more biological approach to mental disorders, rather than a comprehensive biological, psychological and social model.\n\nPsychiatrists may advocate psychiatric drugs, psychotherapy or more controversial interventions such as electroshock or psychosurgery to treat mental illness. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is administered worldwide typically for severe mental disorders. Across the globe it has been estimated that approximately 1 million patients receive ECT per year. Exact numbers of how many persons per year have ECT in the United States are unknown due to the variability of settings and treatment. Researchers' estimates generally range from 100,000 to 200,000 persons per year.\n\nSome persons receiving ECT die during the procedure (ECT is performed under a general anaesthetic, which always carries a risk). Leonard Roy Frank writes that estimates of ECT-related death rates vary widely. The lower estimates include: • 2-4 in 100,000 (from Kramer's 1994 study of 28,437 patients) • 1 in 10,000 (Boodman’s first entry in 1996) • 1 in 1,000 (Impastato’s first entry in 1957) • 1 in 200, among the elderly, over 60 (Impastato’s in 1957) Higher estimates include: • 1 in 102 (Martin’s entry in 1949) • 1 in 95 (Boodman’s first entry in 1996) • 1 in 92 (Freeman and Kendell’s entry in 1976) • 1 in 89 (Sagebiel’s in 1961) • 1 in 69 (Gralnick’s in 1946) • 1 in 63, among a group undergoing intensive ECT (Perry’s in 1963–1979) • 1 in 38 (Ehrenberg’s in 1955) • 1 in 30 (Kurland’s in 1959) • 1 in 9, among a group undergoing intensive ECT (Weil’s in 1949) • 1 in 4, among the very elderly, over 80 (Kroessler and Fogel’s in 1974–1986).\n\nPsychiatrists around the world have been involved in the suppression of individual rights by states wherein the definitions of mental disease had been expanded to include political disobedience. Nowadays, in many countries, political prisoners are sometimes confined to mental institutions and abused therein. Psychiatry possesses a built-in capacity for abuse which is greater than in other areas of medicine. The diagnosis of mental disease can serve as proxy for the designation of social dissidents, allowing the state to hold persons against their will and to insist upon therapies that work in favour of ideological conformity and in the broader interests of society. In a monolithic state, psychiatry can be used to bypass standard legal procedures for establishing guilt or innocence and allow political incarceration without the ordinary odium attaching to such political trials.\n\nUnder the Nazi regime in the 1940s, the 'duty to care' was violated on an enormous scale. In Germany alone 300,000 individuals that had been deemed mentally ill, work-shy or feeble-minded were sterilized. An additional 200,000 were euthanized. These practices continued in territories occupied by the Nazis further afield (mainly in eastern Europe), affecting thousands more. From the 1960s up to 1986, political abuse of psychiatry was reported to be systematic in the Soviet Union, and to surface on occasion in other Eastern European countries such as Romania, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia. A \"mental health genocide\" reminiscent of the Nazi aberrations has been located in the history of South African oppression during the apartheid era. A continued misappropriation of the discipline was subsequently attributed to the People's Republic of China.\n\nK. Fulford, A. Smirnov, and E. Snow state: \"An important vulnerability factor, therefore, for the abuse of psychiatry, is the subjective nature of the observations on which psychiatric diagnosis currently depends.\" In an article published in 1994 by American psychiatrist Thomas Szasz on the \"Journal of Medical Ethics\" he stated that \"the classification by slave owners and slave traders of certain individuals as Negroes was scientific, in the sense that whites were rarely classified as blacks. But that did not prevent the 'abuse' of such racial classification, because (what we call) its abuse was, in fact, its use.\" Szasz argued that the spectacle of the Western psychiatrists loudly condemning Soviet colleagues for their abuse of professional standards was largely an exercise in hypocrisy. Szasz states that K. Fulford, A. Smirnov, and E. Snow, who correctly emphasize the value-laden nature of psychiatric diagnoses and the subjective character of psychiatric classifications, fail to accept the role of psychiatric power. He stated that psychiatric abuse, such as people usually associated with practices in the former USSR, was connected not with the misuse of psychiatric diagnoses, but with the political power built into the social role of the psychiatrist in democratic and totalitarian societies alike. Musicologists, drama critics, art historians, and many other scholars also create their own subjective classifications; however, lacking state-legitimated power over persons, their classifications do not lead to anyone’s being deprived of property, liberty, or life. For instance, plastic surgeon’s classification of beauty is subjective, but the plastic surgeon cannot treat his or her patient without the patient’s consent, therefore, there \"cannot\" be any political abuse of plastic surgery.\n\nThe bedrock of political medicine is coercion masquerading as medical treatment. What transforms coercion into therapy are physicians \"diagnosing\" the person’s condition an \"illness,\" \"declaring\" the intervention they impose on the victim a \"treatment,\" and legislators and judges \"legitimating\" these categorizations as \"illnesses\" and \"treatments.\" In the same way, physician-eugenicists advocated killing certain disabled or ill persons as a form of treatment for both society and patient long before the Nazis came to power.\n\nFrom the commencement of his political career, Hitler put his struggle against \"enemies of the state\" in medical rhetoric. In 1934, addressing the Reichstag, Hitler declared, \"I gave the order… to burn out down to the raw flesh the ulcers of our internal well-poisoning.\" The entire German nation and its National Socialist politicians learned to think and speak in such terms. Werner Best, Reinhard Heydrich’s deputy, stated that the task of the police was \"to root out all symptoms of disease and germs of destruction that threatened the political health of the nation… [In addition to Jews,] most [of the germs] were weak, unpopular and marginalized groups, such as gypsies, homosexuals, beggars, 'antisocials', 'work-shy', and 'habitual criminals'.\"\n\nIn spite of all the evidence, people underappreciate or, more often, ignore the political implications of the therapeutic character of Nazism and of the use of medical metaphors in modern democracies. Dismissed as an \"abuse of psychiatry\", this practice is a touchy subject not because the story makes psychiatrists in Nazi Germany look bad, but because it highlights the dramatic similarities between pharmacratic controls in Germany under Nazism and those that have emerged in the US under the free market economy.\n\nThe Swiss lawyer Edmund Schönenberger claims that the strongholds of psychiatry have absolutely nothing to do with “care”, the law or justice – instead, they are nothing other than instruments of domination. Fundamental criticism of coercive psychiatry\n\nThe \"therapeutic state\" is a phrase coined by Szasz in 1963. The collaboration between psychiatry and government leads to what Szasz calls the \"therapeutic state\", a system in which disapproved actions, thoughts, and emotions are repressed (\"cured\") through pseudomedical interventions. Thus suicide, unconventional religious beliefs, racial bigotry, unhappiness, anxiety, shyness, sexual promiscuity, shoplifting, gambling, overeating, smoking, and illegal drug use are all considered symptoms or illnesses that need to be cured. When faced with demands for measures to curtail smoking in public, binge-drinking, gambling or obesity, ministers say that \"we must guard against charges of nanny statism\". The \"nanny state\" has turned into the \"therapeutic state\" where nanny has given way to counselor. Nanny just told people what to do; counselors also tell them what to think and what to feel. The \"nanny state\" was punitive, austere, and authoritarian, the therapeutic state is touchy-feely, supportive—and even more authoritarian. According to Szasz, \"the therapeutic state swallows up everything human on the seemingly rational ground that nothing falls outside the province of health and medicine, just as the theological state had swallowed up everything human on the perfectly rational ground that nothing falls outside the province of God and religion\".\n\nFaced with the problem of \"madness\", Western individualism proved to be ill-prepared to defend the rights of the individual: modern man has no more right to be a madman than medieval man had a right to be a heretic because if once people agree that they have identified the one true God, or Good, it brings about that they have to guard members and nonmembers of the group from the temptation to worship false gods or goods. A secularization of God and the medicalization of good resulted in the post-Enlightenment version of this view: once people agree that they have identified the one true reason, it brings about that they have to guard against the temptation to worship unreason—that is, madness.\n\nCivil libertarians warn that the marriage of the State with psychiatry could have catastrophic consequences for civilization. In the same vein as the separation of church and state, Szasz believes that a solid wall must exist between psychiatry and the State.\n\nIn his book \"Asylums\", Erving Goffman coined the term 'total institution' for mental hospitals and similar places which took over and confined a person's whole life. Goffman placed psychiatric hospitals in the same category as concentration camps, prisons, military organizations, orphanages, and monasteries. In \"Asylums\" Goffman describes how the institutionalisation process socialises people into the role of a good patient, someone 'dull, harmless and inconspicuous'; it in turn reinforces notions of chronicity in severe mental illness.\n\nWhile the insanity defense is the subject of controversy as a viable excuse for wrongdoing, Szasz and other critics contend that being committed in a psychiatric hospital can be worse than criminal imprisonment, since it involves the risk of compulsory medication with neuroleptics or the use of electroshock treatment. Moreover, while a criminal imprisonment has a predetermined and known time of duration, patients are typically committed to psychiatric hospitals for indefinite durations, an unjust and arguably outrageous imposition of fundamental uncertainty. It has been argued that such uncertainty risks aggravating mental instability, and that it substantially encourages a lapse into hopelessness and acceptance that precludes recovery.\n\nCritics see the use of legally sanctioned force in involuntary commitment as a violation of the fundamental principles of free or open societies. The political philosopher John Stuart Mill and others have argued that society has no right to use coercion to subdue an individual as long as he or she does not harm others. Mentally ill people are essentially no more prone to violence than sane individuals, despite Hollywood and other media portrayals to the contrary. The growing practice, in the United Kingdom and elsewhere, of Care in the Community was instituted partly in response to such concerns. Alternatives to involuntary hospitalization include the development of non-medical crisis care in the community.\n\nIn the case of people suffering from severe psychotic crises, the American Soteria project used to provide what was argued to be a more humane and compassionate alternative to coercive psychiatry. The Soteria houses closed in 1983 in the United States due to lack of financial support. However, similar establishments are presently flourishing in Europe, especially in Sweden and other North European countries.\n\nThe physician Giorgio Antonucci, during his activity as a director of the \"Ospedale Psichiatrico Osservanza\" of Imola, refused any form of coercion and any violation of the fundamental principles of freedom, questioning the basis of psychiatry itself.\n\nMany of the above issues lead to the claim that psychiatry is a pseudoscience. According to some philosophers of science, for a theory to qualify as science it needs to exhibit the following characteristics:\n\nPsychiatrist Colin A. Ross and Alvin Pam maintain that biopsychiatry does not qualify as a science on many counts.\n\nPsychiatric researcher have been criticised on the basis of the replication crisis and textbook errors. Questionable research practices are known to bias key sources of evidence.\nStuart A. Kirk has argued that psychiatry is a failed enterprise, as mental illness has grown, not shrunk, with about 20% of American adults diagnosable as mentally ill in 2013.\n\nAccording to a 2014 meta-analysis, psychiatric treatment is no less effective for psychiatric illnesses in terms of treatment effects than treatments by practitioners of other medical specialties for physical health conditions. The analysis found that the effect sizes for psychiatric interventions are, on average, on par with other fields of medicine.\n\nSzasz has since (2008) re-emphasized his disdain for the term anti-psychiatry, arguing that its legacy has simply been a \"catchall term used to delegitimize and dismiss critics of psychiatric fraud and force by labeling them 'antipsychiatrists'\". He points out that the term originated in a meeting of four psychiatrists (Cooper, Laing, Berke and Redler) who never defined it yet \"counter-label[ed] their discipline as anti-psychiatry\", and that he considers Laing most responsible for popularizing it despite also personally distancing himself. Szasz describes the deceased (1989) Laing in vitriolic terms, accusing him of being irresponsible and equivocal on psychiatric diagnosis and use of force, and detailing his past \"public behavior\" as \"a fit subject for moral judgment\" which he gives as \"a bad person and a fraud as a professional\".\n\nDaniel Burston, however, has argued that overall the published works of Szasz and Laing demonstrate far more points of convergence and intellectual kinship than Szasz admits, despite the divergence on a number of issues related to Szasz being a libertarian and Laing an existentialist; that Szasz employs a good deal of exaggeration and distortion in his criticism of Laing's personal character, and unfairly uses Laing's personal failings and family woes to discredit his work and ideas; and that Szasz's \"clear-cut, crystalline ethical principles are designed to spare us the agonizing and often inconclusive reflections that many clinicians face frequently in the course of their work\". Szasz has indicated that his own views came from libertarian politics held since his teens, rather than through experience in psychiatry; that in his \"rare\" contacts with involuntary mental patients in the past he either sought to discharge them (if they were not charged with a crime) or \"assisted the prosecution in securing [their] conviction\" (if they were charged with a crime and appeared to be prima facie guilty); that he is not opposed to consensual psychiatry and \"does not interfere with the practice of the conventional psychiatrist\", and that he provided \"listening-and-talking (\"psychotherapy\")\" for voluntary fee-paying clients from 1948 until 1996, a practice he characterizes as non-medical and not associated with his being a psychoanalytically trained psychiatrist.\n\nThe gay rights or gay liberation movement is often thought to have been part of anti-psychiatry in its efforts to challenge oppression and stigma and, specifically, to get homosexuality removed from the American Psychiatric Association's (APA) Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. However, a psychiatric member of APA's Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Issues Committee has recently sought to distance the two, arguing that they were separate in the early 70s protests at APA conventions and that APA's decision to remove homosexuality was scientific and happened to coincide with the political pressure. Reviewers have responded, however, that the founders and movements were closely aligned; that they shared core texts, proponents and slogans; and that others have stated that, for example, the gay liberation critique was \"made possible by (and indeed often explicitly grounded in) traditions of antipsychiatry\".\n\nIn the clinical setting, the two strands of anti-psychiatry—criticism of psychiatric knowledge and reform of its practices—were never entirely distinct. In addition, in a sense, anti-psychiatry was not so much a demand for the end of psychiatry, as it was an often self-directed demand for psychiatrists and allied professionals to question their own judgements, assumptions and practices. In some cases, the suspicion of non-psychiatric medical professionals towards the validity of psychiatry was described as anti-psychiatry, as well the criticism of \"hard-headed\" psychiatrists towards \"soft-headed\" psychiatrists. Most leading figures of anti-psychiatry were themselves psychiatrists, and equivocated over whether they were really \"against psychiatry\", or parts thereof. Outside the field of psychiatry, however—e.g. for activists and non-medical mental health professionals such as social workers and psychologists—'anti-psychiatry' tended to mean something more radical. The ambiguous term \"anti-psychiatry\" came to be associated with these more radical trends, but there was debate over whether it was a new phenomenon, whom it best described, and whether it constituted a genuinely singular movement. In order to avoid any ambiguity intrinsic to the term anti-psychiatry, a current of thought that can be defined as critique of the basis of psychiatry, radical and unambiguous, aims for the complete elimination of psychiatry. The main representative of the critique of the basis of psychiatry is an Italian physician, Giorgio Antonucci.\n\nIn the 1990s, a tendency was noted among psychiatrists to characterize and to regard the anti-psychiatric movement as part of the past, and to view its ideological history as flirtation with the polemics of radical politics at the expense of scientific thought and enquiry. It was also argued, however, that the movement contributed towards generating demand for grassroots involvement in guidelines and advocacy groups, and to the shift from large mental institutions to community services. Additionally, community centers have tended in practice to distance themselves from the psychiatric/medical model and have continued to see themselves as representing a culture of resistance or opposition to psychiatry's authority. Overall, while antipsychiatry as a movement may have become an anachronism by this period and was no longer led by eminent psychiatrists, it has been argued that it became incorporated into the mainstream practice of mental health disciplines. On the other hand, mainstream psychiatry became more biomedical, increasing the gap between professionals.\n\nHenry Nasrallah claims that while he believes anti-psychiatry consists of many historical exaggerations based on events and primitive conditions from a century ago, \"antipsychiatry helps keep us honest and rigorous about what we do, motivating us to relentlessly seek better diagnostic models and treatment paradigms. Psychiatry is far more scientific today than it was a century ago, but misperceptions about psychiatry continue to be driven by abuses of the past. The best antidote for antipsychiatry allegations is a combination of personal integrity, scientific progress, and sound evidence-based clinical care\".\n\nA criticism was made in the 1990s that three decades of anti-psychiatry had produced a large literature critical of psychiatry, but little discussion of the deteriorating situation of the mentally troubled in American society. Anti-psychiatry crusades have thus been charged with failing to put suffering individuals first, and therefore being similarly guilty of what they blame psychiatrists for. The rise of anti-psychiatry in Italy was described by one observer as simply \"a transfer of psychiatric control from those with medical knowledge to those who possessed socio-political power\".\n\nCritics of this view, however, from an anti-psychiatry perspective, are quick to point to the industrial aspects of psychiatric treatment itself as a primary causal factor in this situation that is described as \"deteriorating\". The numbers of people labeled \"mentally ill\", and in treatment, together with the severity of their conditions, have been going up primarily due to the direct efforts of the mental health movement, and mental health professionals, including psychiatrists, and not their detractors. Envisioning \"mental health treatment\" as violence prevention has been a big part of the problem, especially as you are dealing with a population that is not significantly more violent than any other group and, in fact, are less so than many.\n\nOn October 7, 2016, the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE) at the University of Toronto announced that they had established a scholarship for students doing theses in the area of antipsychiatry. Called “The Bonnie Burstow Scholarship in Antipsychiatry,” it is to be awarded annually to an OISE thesis student. An unprecedented step, the scholarship should further the cause of freedom of thought and the exchange of ideas in academia. The scholarship is named in honor of Bonnie Burstow, a faculty member at the University of Toronto, a radical feminist, and an antipsychiatry activist. She is also the author of \"Psychiatry and the Business of Madness\" (2015).\n\nSome components of antipsychiatric theory have in recent decades been reformulated into a critique of \"corporate psychiatry\", heavily influenced by the pharmaceutical industry. A recent editorial about this was published in the \"British Journal of Psychiatry\" by Moncrieff, arguing that modern psychiatry has become a handmaiden to conservative political commitments. David Healy is a psychiatrist and professor in psychological medicine at Cardiff University School of Medicine, Wales. He has a special interest in the influence of the pharmaceutical industry on medicine and academia.\n\nIn the meantime, members of the psychiatric consumer/survivor movement continued to campaign for reform, empowerment and alternatives, with an increasingly diverse representation of views. Groups often have been opposed and undermined, especially when they proclaim to be, or when they are labelled as being, \"anti-psychiatry\". However, as of the 1990s, more than 60 percent of ex-patient groups reportedly support anti-psychiatry beliefs and consider themselves to be \"psychiatric survivors\". Although anti-psychiatry is often attributed to a few famous figures in psychiatry or academia, it has been pointed out that consumer/survivor/ex-patient individuals and groups preceded it, drove it and carried on through it.\n\nA schism exists among those critical of conventional psychiatry between radical abolitionists and more moderate reformists. Laing, Cooper and others associated with the initial anti-psychiatry movement stopped short of actually advocating for the abolition of coercive psychiatry. Thomas Szasz, from near the beginning of his career, crusaded for the abolition of forced psychiatry. Today, believing that coercive psychiatry marginalizes and oppresses people with its harmful, controlling, and abusive practices, many who identify as anti-psychiatry activists are proponents of the complete abolition of non-consensual and coercive psychiatry.\n\nCriticism of antipsychiatry from within psychiatry itself object to the underlying principle that psychiatry is by definition harmful. Most psychiatrists accept that issues exist that need addressing, but that the abolition of psychiatry is harmful. Nimesh Desai concludes: \"\"To be a believer and a practitioner of multidisciplinary mental health, it is not necessary to reject the medical model as one of the basics of psychiatry.\" and admits \"Some of the challenges and dangers to psychiatry are not so much from the avowed antipsychiatrists, but from the misplaced and misguided individuals and groups in related fields.\"\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16976785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16976785", "title": "Antibiotice Iași", "text": "Antibiotice Iași\n\nAntibiotice Iaşi is a public pharmaceutical company which is the third largest drug producing company in Romania and a large nystatin producer. It is 53.02%-owned by the Romanian Ministry of Health. Its research center and production facilities are based in Valea Lupului, a commune near Iaşi.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859634", "title": "Base curve radius", "text": "Base curve radius\n\nBase curve radius, or simply base curve, abbreviated BCR or BC, is the measure of an important parameter of a lens in optometry. \n\nOn a spectacle lens, it is the flatter curvature of the front surface. \n\nOn a contact lens it is the curvature of the back surface and is sometimes referred to as the back central optic radius (abbreviated BCOR). Typical values for a contact lens are from 8.0 to 10.0 mm. The base curve is the radius of the sphere of the back of the lens that the prescription describes (the lower the number, the steeper the curve of the cornea and the lens, the higher the number, the flatter the curve of the cornea and the lens). This number is important in order to allow the contact lens to fit well to the wearer's cornea for comfort, to facilitate tear exchange, and to allow oxygen transmission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7468773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7468773", "title": "Bernard L. Oser Award", "text": "Bernard L. Oser Award\n\nThe Bernard L. Oser Award has been awarded since 2000 by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT). It is awarded to contributions to the scientific knowledge of food ingredient safety or for leadership in establishing principles for food safety evaluation or regulation. This award is named for Bernard L. Oser (1899-1995), a food science researcher who was involved in nutrition and food safety of ingredients. He also was IFT President in 1968-9 who the last surviving charter member of IFT in 1939.\n\nAward winners received a USD 3000 honorarium and a plaque from the Bernard L. Oser Endowment Fund of the IFT Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "52355972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355972", "title": "Cannabis in Honduras", "text": "Cannabis in Honduras\n\nCannabis in Honduras is illegal for possession, sale, transportation and cultivation.\n"}
{"id": "52460036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52460036", "title": "Cannabis in Suriname", "text": "Cannabis in Suriname\n\nCannabis in Suriname is illegal. Cannabis is the most popular illegal drug in Suriname, with 2% of the adult population having ever used it.\n\nCannabis was banned in Suriname (then a Dutch colony) in the early years of the 20th century. The drug had been popularized by the arrival of Asian immigrants in the colony. In 1921 the Surinamese Immigrants' Association requested that the ban on \"ganja\" be lifted and an import and sales concession be granted to them.\n\nA 1982 report noted that cannabis was becoming more popular in Suriname, and was grown in abandoned plantations near the coastal plains, primarily for local consumption. A 1998 report noted anecdotal data that cannabis was cultivated in Suriname, but that the amounts were unknown.\n\nDuring the 2005 Caribbean Week of Agriculture, the Surinamese Minister of Agriculture stated: \"We know that we have problems with fertile soil. We know that our food import bill is too high. So when we talk about marijuana, personally, for Suriname, I [do] not agree at this moment to [say] let our farmers start producing marijuana. What we are stimulating is produce food for our people.\"\n\nSuriname is noted as a key transshipment point for the smuggling of cannabis and cocaine to Europe. The Brazilian town of Belém was noted as a particular contact point in the trade, given its proximity to Suriname and large Surinamese population.\n\n"}
{"id": "53162693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53162693", "title": "Capability Scotland", "text": "Capability Scotland\n\nCapability Scotland, formerly the Scottish Council for the Care of Spastics is a Scottish charity. Based in Edinburgh, it provides education, employment and care for disabled people.\n\nThe Scottish Council for the Care of Spastics was founded in 1946 by a group of parents and health professionals. Its aim was to support children with cerebral palsy. The first school was opened at Westerlea, Edinburgh, in 1948. In the early 1960s the charity began organising employment opportunities for disabled people, and in 1973 the first adult residential home was established.\n\nIn 1996 the organisation changed its name to Capability Scotland.\n\nCapability Scotland is a member of Disability Agenda Scotland together with Sense Scotland, ENABLE Scotland, RNIB Scotland, Action on Hearing Loss Scotland, and the Scottish Association for Mental Health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6818190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6818190", "title": "Case management (US health system)", "text": "Case management (US health system)\n\nCase management is a managed care technique within the health care coverage system of the United States. It involves an integrated system that manages the delivery of comprehensive healthcare services for enrolled patients. Case managers are employed in almost every aspect of health care and these employ different approaches in the control of clinical actions.\n\nThe American Case Management Association (ACMA), a non-profit association dedicated to the support and development of the profession of case management through educational forums, networking opportunities, legislative advocacy and establishing the industry's Standards of Practice, defines case management as:\n\nCase management is multifaceted as the following definition highlights:\n\n\"Case management is a procedure to plan, seek, and monitor services for different social agencies and staff on behalf of a client. Usually one agency takes primary responsibility for the client and assigns a case manager, who coordinates services, advocates for the client, and sometimes controls resources and purchases services for the client. The procedure allows many social workers in the agency, or in different agencies to coordinate their efforts to serve a given client through professional teamwork, thus expanding the range of needed services offered.\"\n\nThe Certified Case Manager (CCM) credential is available to health care providers licensed to practice independently in the American health care system. For example, the license would be available to Registered Nurses but not Licensed Practical Nurses, who are not licensed to assess and evaluate the health of their clients.\n\nBecause holistic training is the basis for the Registered Nurse, Social Work, Occupational therapy and most all degree programs in the health sciences, the transition into case management is a natural progression of skill. To investigate if your specialty is among those able to earn this specialty certification, go to https://web.archive.org/web/20100325003803/http://www.ccmcertification.org/secondary.php?section=Certification&content=ApplyForCertification, and read the requirements for application for this certification.\n\nCase management focuses on delivering personalized services to patients to improve their care, and involves four steps:\n\nIn the context of a health insurer or health plan it is defined as:\nA method of managing the provision of health care to members with high-cost medical conditions. The goal is to coordinate the care so as to both improve continuity and quality of care and lower costs.\n\nSpecific types of case management programs include catastrophic or large claim management programs, maternity case management programs, and transitional care management programs. \n\nCase managers working for health insurers and HMOs typically do the following:\n\nBy identifying patients with potentially catastrophic illnesses, contacting them and actively coordinating their care, plans can reduce expenses and improve the medical care they receive. Examples include identifying high-risk pregnancies in order to ensure appropriate pre-natal care and watching for dialysis claims to identify patients who are at risk of end-stage renal disease. The amount of involvement an insurer can have in managing high cost cases depends on the structure of the benefit plan. In a tightly managed plan case management may be integral to the benefits program. In less tightly managed plan, participation in a case management program is often voluntary for patients.\n\nCase managers working for health care providers typically do the following:\n\nCase managers working for employers typically do the following:\n\nThere are several models of case management and the distinctions are based on internal and external influences that have bearing on the level of success and differences in outcomes. These, for instance, include local influences such as the response to cost by funders of care and consumer pressure. The generic model used in the United States is the chronic care model, which holds that health care does not only involve change in the patient and that high-quality disease care counts the community, the health system, self-management support, delivery system design, decision support, and clinical information systems as important elements in the practice of case management. There is also the group decision-making models such as the rational model, which focuses on economic perspectives and maximum utility; and, the garbage can model, an approach based on difficult problem identification and solutions under uncertain circumstances. Other models also prioritize ethics such as the distributive justice model developed by Beauchamp and Childress of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics, where ethics a component of the case manager's responsibilities and is concerned with the distribution of finite resources for the benefit of an entire community. \n\nThe American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) is the largest board certification body for nurses in the United States. One of the many certifications that ANCC offers is a Case Management Nurse Certification. Registered nurses who successfully pass ANCC's Case Management Nurse exam are entitled to use the credential, RN-BC (Registered Nurse - Board Certified).\n\nThe American Case Management Association (ACMA), a non-profit professional membership organization supporting the practice of hospital case management through education, networking, publications, benchmarking and research, defines Hospital/Health System Case Management as:\n\n\"...A collaborative practice model including patients, nurses, social workers, physicians, other practitioners, caregivers and the community. The Case Management process encompasses communication and facilitates care along a continuum through effective resource coordination. The goals of Case Management include the achievement of optimal health, access to care and appropriate utilization of resources, balanced with the patient's right to self determination.\"\n\nHospital Case Managers are professionals in the hospital setting who ensure that patients are admitted and transitioned to the appropriate level of care, have an effective plan of care and are receiving prescribed treatment, and have an advocate for services and plans needed during and after their stay. Case Managers concurrently plan for transitions of care, discharge and often post discharge follow up. Case Managers often coordinate/communicate with the patient and family, physician(s), funding sources (i.e. insurance, Medicare), and community resources that provide services the patient may need, such as rehabilitation facilities or providers of medical equipment. Through this coordination, hospital case managers' goals are to ensure both optimal patient and hospital outcomes including quality of care, efficient resource utilization and reimbursement for services. Hospital Case Management is a collaborative practice, consisting primarily of Nurse and Social Work professionals working in collaboration with physicians and other members of the healthcare team.\n\nCase Managers' Role\n\nA Case Manager's responsibilities include the following functions:\n\n\nHospital Case Manager Education and Certification\n\nTo be a Case Manager requires experience in the hospital setting, typically as a nurse or a social worker. Additional skills specific to case management are learned in the role. Advanced certification is available to Hospital Case Managers through the Accredited Case Manager (ACM) Certification, offered by ACMA. The ACM Certification is the only certification that is specifically designed to validate an individual's competency in hospital case management practice, and is offered to both Nurse and Social Work Case Managers.\n\nThe ACM Certification requires professionals to apply, demonstrate two years of hospital case management experience and licensure as a nurse or social worker, and to sit for and pass an examination. The exam consists of two components. The first section contains core case management questions that test the knowledge of Case Managers working in a hospital/health system. The second component consists of clinical simulations, which test the application of case management knowledge to simulated practice scenarios. Successful completion of the ACM Certification requires passing both parts of the exam, and earns the successful application the ACM credential. This credential must be renewed every four years through demonstrating the required hours of continuing education.\n\nAmerican Case Management Association\n\nACMA is the association solely for Hospital Case Management professionals, and currently consists of more than 4,500 members, and is represented by 21 state chapters nationwide. ACMA provides hospital-focused education and networking for Case Managers – including nurses, social workers, physicians, administrators and other health care professionals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11845502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11845502", "title": "Configuration factor", "text": "Configuration factor\n\nIn dentistry, the configuration factor was first introduced by Davidson CL,1986, and later quantitavly extended Feilzer et al. in 1987 and refers to the number of bonded surfaces to the number of un-bonded surfaces in a dental restoration. For example, for a class I preparation there would be 5 bonded surfaces and only 1 un-bonded surface; the net result would be a c-factor of 5. With an increasing C factor the developing curing contraction stresses of bonded restorations (resin composites) increases too (Feilzer et al. 1987). The developing curing contraction in a bonded restoration generate stress on the bonded interface that are in competition with the developing bond strength of the setting restorative to the cavity surfaces, which may result in (partial) debonding, marginal leakage and post-operative pain (Davidson et al. 1984).\n\nInternal stress can be reduced in a restoration subject to potentially reduce high disruptive contraction forces by using:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56901515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56901515", "title": "Cryonic technician", "text": "Cryonic technician\n\nA Cryonic technician is a healthcare professional, predominantly in the out-of-hospital environment, and working mainly as part of cryonics specialists.\n"}
{"id": "18832328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18832328", "title": "Danish Medicines Agency", "text": "Danish Medicines Agency\n\nThe Danish Medicines Agency (Lægemiddelstyrelsen) is an agency under the Danish Ministry of Health and Prevention. \n\nThe purpose of the agency is to ensure that medicinal products used in Denmark are of satisfactory quality, are safe to use and that they have the desired effect. This is done through administering the Danish legislation on medicinal products, reimbursement, pharmacies, medical devices \nand euphoriants. The Agency takes part in the Danish innovation system Biopeople at the University of Copenhagen.\n\nFunctionally speaking the Danish Medicines Agency compares to that of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.\n"}
{"id": "5243428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5243428", "title": "Derlis Gómez", "text": "Derlis Gómez\n\nDerlis Venancio Gómez López (born 2 November 1972 in Ypacaraí) is a Paraguayan footballer. He plays as a goalkeeper for 12 de Octubre in Paraguay.\n\nGómez played club football for Club Sol de América, Club Guaraní, Club 12 de Octubre, Sportivo Luqueño, Club Olimpia, Club Libertad and Club Nacional in Paraguay and Quilmes Atlético Club in Argentina.\n\nGómez was also part of the Paraguay national team. He was named in his country's squad for the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, though he did not start for the team.\n\nIn April 2003, Gómez was banned from playing in CONMEBOL-organized competitions for 6 months following a positive doping test.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "8303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8303", "title": "Down syndrome", "text": "Down syndrome\n\nDown syndrome (DS or DNS), also known as trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21. It is typically associated with physical growth delays, mild to moderate intellectual disability, and characteristic facial features. The average IQ of a young adult with Down syndrome is 50, equivalent to the mental ability of an 8 or 9-year-old child, but this can vary widely.\nThe parents of the affected individual are typically genetically normal. The probability increases from less than 0.1% in 20-year-old mothers to 3% in those age 45. The extra chromosome is believed to occur by chance, with no known behavioral activity or environmental factor that changes the probability. Down syndrome can be identified during pregnancy by prenatal screening followed by diagnostic testing or after birth by direct observation and genetic testing. Since the introduction of screening, pregnancies with the diagnosis are often terminated. Regular screening for health problems common in Down syndrome is recommended throughout the person's life.\nThere is no cure for Down syndrome. Education and proper care have been shown to improve quality of life. Some children with Down syndrome are educated in typical school classes, while others require more specialized education. Some individuals with Down syndrome graduate from high school, and a few attend post-secondary education. In adulthood, about 20% in the United States do paid work in some capacity, with many requiring a sheltered work environment. Support in financial and legal matters is often needed. Life expectancy is around 50 to 60 years in the developed world with proper health care.\nDown syndrome is one of the most common chromosome abnormalities in humans. It occurs in about one per 1,000 babies born each year. In 2015, Down syndrome was present in 5.4 million individuals and resulted in 27,000 deaths, down from 43,000 deaths in 1990. It is named after John Langdon Down, a British doctor who fully described the syndrome in 1866. Some aspects of the condition were described earlier by Jean-Étienne Dominique Esquirol in 1838 and Édouard Séguin in 1844. In 1959, the genetic cause of Down syndrome, an extra copy of chromosome 21, was discovered.\nThose with Down syndrome nearly always have physical and intellectual disabilities. As adults, their mental abilities are typically similar to those of an 8- or 9-year-old. They also typically have poor immune function and generally reach developmental milestones at a later age. They have an increased risk of a number of other health problems, including congenital heart defect, epilepsy, leukemia, thyroid diseases, and mental disorders.\n\nPeople with Down syndrome may have some or all of these physical characteristics: a small chin, slanted eyes, poor muscle tone, a flat nasal bridge, a single crease of the palm, and a protruding tongue due to a small mouth and relatively large tongue. These airway changes lead to obstructive sleep apnea in around half of those with Down syndrome. Other common features include: a flat and wide face, a short neck, excessive joint flexibility, extra space between big toe and second toe, abnormal patterns on the fingertips and short fingers. Instability of the atlantoaxial joint occurs in about 20% and may lead to spinal cord injury in 1–2%. Hip dislocations may occur without trauma in up to a third of people with Down syndrome.\n\nGrowth in height is slower, resulting in adults who tend to have short stature—the average height for men is 154 cm (5 ft 1 in) and for women is 142 cm (4 ft 8 in). Individuals with Down syndrome are at increased risk for obesity as they age. Growth charts have been developed specifically for children with Down syndrome.\n\nThis syndrome causes about a third of cases of intellectual disability. Many developmental milestones are delayed with the ability to crawl typically occurring around 8 months rather than 5 months and the ability to walk independently typically occurring around 21 months rather than 14 months.\n\nMost individuals with Down syndrome have mild (IQ: 50–69) or moderate (IQ: 35–50) intellectual disability with some cases having severe (IQ: 20–35) difficulties. Those with mosaic Down syndrome typically have IQ scores 10–30 points higher. As they age, people with Down syndrome typically perform worse than their same-age peers.\n\nCommonly, individuals with Down syndrome have better language understanding than ability to speak. Between 10 and 45% have either a stutter or rapid and irregular speech, making it difficult to understand them. Some after 30 years of age may lose their ability to speak.\n\nThey typically do fairly well with social skills. Behavior problems are not generally as great an issue as in other syndromes associated with intellectual disability. In children with Down syndrome, mental illness occurs in nearly 30% with autism occurring in 5–10%. People with Down syndrome experience a wide range of emotions. While people with Down syndrome are generally happy, symptoms of depression and anxiety may develop in early adulthood.\n\nChildren and adults with Down syndrome are at increased risk of epileptic seizures, which occur in 5–10% of children and up to 50% of adults. This includes an increased risk of a specific type of seizure called infantile spasms. Many (15%) who live 40 years or longer develop Alzheimer disease. In those who reach 60 years of age, 50–70% have the disease.\n\nHearing and vision disorders occur in more than half of people with Down syndrome. \n\nVision problems occur in 38 to 80%. Between 20 and 50% have strabismus, in which the two eyes do not move together. Cataracts (cloudiness of the lens of the eye) occur in 15%, and may be present at birth. Keratoconus (a thin, cone-shaped cornea) and glaucoma (increased eye pressure) are also more common, as are refractive errors requiring glasses or contacts. Brushfield spots (small white or grayish/brown spots on the outer part of the iris) are present in 38 to 85% of individuals.\nHearing problems are found in 50–90% of children with Down syndrome. This is often the result of otitis media with effusion which occurs in 50–70% and chronic ear infections which occur in 40 to 60%. Ear infections often begin in the first year of life and are partly due to poor eustachian tube function. Excessive ear wax can also cause hearing loss due to obstruction of the outer ear canal. Even a mild degree of hearing loss can have negative consequences for speech, language understanding, and academics. Additionally, it is important to rule out hearing loss as a factor in social and cognitive deterioration. Age-related hearing loss of the sensorineural type occurs at a much earlier age and affects 10–70% of people with Down syndrome.\n\nThe rate of congenital heart disease in newborns with Down syndrome is around 40%. Of those with heart disease, about 80% have an atrioventricular septal defect or ventricular septal defect with the former being more common. Mitral valve problems become common as people age, even in those without heart problems at birth. Other problems that may occur include tetralogy of Fallot and patent ductus arteriosus. People with Down syndrome have a lower risk of hardening of the arteries.\n\nAlthough the overall risk of cancer in DS is not changed, the risk of testicular cancer and certain blood cancers, including acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL) is increased while the risk of other non blood cancers are decreased. People with DS are believed to have an increased risk of developing cancers derived from germ cells whether these cancers are blood or non-blood related.\n\nCancers of the blood are 10 to 15 times more common in children with Down syndrome. In particular, acute lymphoblastic leukemia is 20 times more common and the megakaryoblastic form of acute myeloid leukemia (acute megakaryoblastic leukemia), is 500 times more common. Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL) is a leukemia of megakaryoblasts, the precursors cells to megakaryocytes which form blood platelets. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia in Down syndrome accounts for 1-3% of all childhood cases of ALL. It occurs most often in those older than 9 years or having a white blood cell count greater than 50,000 per microliter and is rare in those younger than 1 year old. ALL in DS tends to have poorer outcomes than other cases of ALL in people without DS.\n\nIn Down syndrome, AMKL is typically preceded by transient myeloproliferative disease (TMD), a disorder of blood cell production in which non-cancerous megakaryoblasts with a mutation in the \"GATA1\" gene rapidly divide during the later period of pregnancy. The condition affects 3–10% of babies with Down. While it often spontaneously resolves within 3 months of birth, it can cause serious blood, liver, or other complications. In about 10% of cases, TMD progresses to AMKL during the 3 months to 5 years following its resolution.\n\nPeople with DS have a lower risk of all major solid cancers including those of lung, breast, cervix, with the lowest relative rates occurring in those aged 50 years or older. This low risk is thought due to an increase in the expression of tumor suppressor genes present on chromosome 21. One exception is testicular germ cell cancer which occurs at a higher rate in DS.\n\nProblems of the thyroid gland occur in 20–50% of individuals with Down syndrome. Low thyroid is the most common form, occurring in almost half of all individuals. Thyroid problems can be due to a poorly or nonfunctioning thyroid at birth (known as congenital hypothyroidism) which occurs in 1% or can develop later due to an attack on the thyroid by the immune system resulting in Graves' disease or autoimmune hypothyroidism. Type 1 diabetes mellitus is also more common.\n\nConstipation occurs in nearly half of people with Down syndrome and may result in changes in behavior. One potential cause is Hirschsprung's disease, occurring in 2–15%, which is due to a lack of nerve cells controlling the colon. Other frequent congenital problems include duodenal atresia, pyloric stenosis, Meckel diverticulum, and imperforate anus. Celiac disease affects about 7–20% and gastroesophageal reflux disease is also more common.\n\nIndividuals with Down syndrome tend to be more susceptible to gingivitis as well as early, severe periodontal disease, necrotising ulcerative gingivitis, and early tooth loss, especially in the lower front teeth. While plaque and poor oral hygiene are contributing factors, the severity of these periodontal diseases cannot be explained solely by external factors. Research suggests that the severity is likely a result of a weakened immune system. The weakened immune system also contributes to increased incidence of yeast infections in the mouth (from Candida albicans).\n\nIndividuals with Down syndrome also tend to have a more alkaline saliva resulting in a greater resistance to tooth decay, despite decreased quantities of saliva, less effective oral hygiene habits, and higher plaque indexes.\n\nHigher rates of tooth wear and bruxism are also common. Other common oral manifestations of Down syndrome include enlarged hypotonic tongue, crusted and hypotonic lips, mouth breathing, narrow palate with crowded teeth, class III malocclusion with an underdeveloped maxilla and posterior crossbite, delayed exfoliation of baby teeth and delayed eruption of adult teeth, shorter roots on teeth, and often missing and malformed (usually smaller) teeth. Less common manifestations include cleft lip and palate and enamel hypocalcification (20% prevalence).\n\nMales with Down syndrome usually do not father children, while females have lower rates of fertility relative to those who are unaffected. Fertility is estimated to be present in 30–50% of females. Menopause typically occurs at an earlier age. The poor fertility in males is thought to be due to problems with sperm development; however, it may also be related to not being sexually active. As of 2006, three instances of males with Down syndrome fathering children and 26 cases of females having children have been reported. Without assisted reproductive technologies, around half of the children of someone with Down syndrome will also have the syndrome.\n\nDown syndrome is caused by having three copies of the genes on chromosome 21, rather than the usual two. The parents of the affected individual are typically genetically normal. Those who have one child with Down syndrome have about a 1% risk of having a second child with the syndrome, if both parents are found to have normal karyotypes.\n\nThe extra chromosome content can arise through several different ways. The most common cause (about 92–95% of cases) is a complete extra copy of chromosome 21, resulting in trisomy 21. In 1.0 to 2.5% of cases, some of the cells in the body are normal and others have trisomy 21, known as mosaic Down syndrome. The other common mechanisms that can give rise to Down syndrome include: a Robertsonian translocation, isochromosome, or ring chromosome. These contain additional material from chromosome 21 and occur in about 2.5% of cases. An isochromosome results when the two long arms of a chromosome separate together rather than the long and short arm separating together during egg or sperm development.\n\nTrisomy 21 (also known by the karyotype 47,XX,+21 for females and 47,XY,+21 for males) is caused by a failure of the 21st chromosome to separate during egg or sperm development (nondisjunction). As a result, a sperm or egg cell is produced with an extra copy of chromosome 21; this cell thus has 24 chromosomes. When combined with a normal cell from the other parent, the baby has 47 chromosomes, with three copies of chromosome 21. About 88% of cases of trisomy 21 result from nonseparation of the chromosomes in the mother, 8% from nonseparation in the father, and 3% after the egg and sperm have merged.\n\nThe extra chromosome 21 material may also occur due to a Robertsonian translocation in 2–4% of cases. In this situation, the long arm of chromosome 21 is attached to another chromosome, often chromosome 14. In a male affected with Down syndrome, it results in a karyotype of 46XY,t(14q21q). This may be a new mutation or previously present in one of the parents. The parent with such a translocation is usually normal physically and mentally; however, during production of egg or sperm cells, a higher chance of creating reproductive cells with extra chromosome 21 material exists. This results in a 15% chance of having a child with Down syndrome when the mother is affected and a less than 5% probability if the father is affected. The probability of this type of Down syndrome is not related to the mother's age. Some children without Down syndrome may inherit the translocation and have a higher probability of having children of their own with Down syndrome. In this case it is sometimes known as familial Down syndrome.\n\nThe extra genetic material present in DS results in overexpression of a portion of the 310 genes located on chromosome 21. This overexpression has been estimated at around 50%. Some research has suggested the Down syndrome critical region is located at bands 21q22.1–q22.3, with this area including genes for amyloid, superoxide dismutase, and likely the ETS2 proto oncogene. Other research, however, has not confirmed these findings. microRNAs are also proposed to be involved.\n\nThe dementia which occurs in Down syndrome is due to an excess of amyloid beta peptide produced in the brain and is similar to Alzheimer's disease. This peptide is processed from amyloid precursor protein, the gene for which is located on chromosome 21. Senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are present in nearly all by 35 years of age, though dementia may not be present. Those with DS also lack a normal number of lymphocytes and produce less antibodies which contributes to their increased risk of infection.\n\nDown syndrome is associated with an increased risk of many chronic diseases that are typically associated with older age such as Alzheimer's disease. The accelerated aging suggest that trisomy 21 increases the biological age of tissues, but molecular evidence for this hypothesis is sparse. According to a biomarker of tissue age known as epigenetic clock, trisomy 21 increases the age of blood and brain tissue (on average by 6.6 years).\n\nWhen screening tests predict a high risk of Down syndrome, a more invasive diagnostic test (amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling) is needed to confirm the diagnosis. If Down syndrome occurs in one in 500 pregnancies and the test used has a 5% false-positive rate, this means, of 26 women who test positive on screening, only one will have Down syndrome confirmed. If the screening test has a 2% false-positive rate, this means one of eleven who test positive on screening have a fetus with DS. Amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling are more reliable tests, but they increase the risk of miscarriage between 0.5 and 1%. The risk of limb problems is increased in the offspring due to the procedure. The risk from the procedure is greater the earlier it is performed, thus amniocentesis is not recommended before 15 weeks gestational age and chorionic villus sampling before 10 weeks gestational age.\n\nAbout 92% of pregnancies in Europe with a diagnosis of Down syndrome are terminated. In the United States, termination rates are around 67%, but this rate varied from 61% to 93% among different populations. Rates are lower among women who are younger and have decreased over time. When nonpregnant people are asked if they would have a termination if their fetus tested positive, 23–33% said yes, when high-risk pregnant women were asked, 46–86% said yes, and when women who screened positive are asked, 89–97% say yes.\n\nThe diagnosis can often be suspected based on the child's physical appearance at birth. An analysis of the child's chromosomes is needed to confirm the diagnosis, and to determine if a translocation is present, as this may help determine the risk of the child's parents having further children with Down syndrome. Parents generally wish to know the possible diagnosis once it is suspected and do not wish pity.\n\nGuidelines recommend screening for Down syndrome to be offered to all pregnant women, regardless of age. A number of tests are used, with varying levels of accuracy. They are typically used in combination to increase the detection rate. None can be definitive, thus if screening is positive, either amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling is required to confirm the diagnosis. Screening in both the first and second trimesters is better than just screening in the first trimester. The different screening techniques in use are able to pick up 90 to 95% of cases with a false-positive rate of 2 to 5%.\n\nUltrasound imaging can be used to screen for Down syndrome. Findings that indicate increased risk when seen at 14 to 24 weeks of gestation include a small or no nasal bone, large ventricles, nuchal fold thickness, and an abnormal right subclavian artery, among others. The presence or absence of many markers is more accurate. Increased fetal nuchal translucency (NT) indicates an increased risk of Down syndrome picking up 75–80% of cases and being falsely positive in 6%.\n\nSeveral blood markers can be measured to predict the risk of Down syndrome during the first or second trimester. Testing in both trimesters is sometimes recommended and test results are often combined with ultrasound results. In the second trimester, often two or three tests are used in combination with two or three of: α-fetoprotein, unconjugated estriol, total hCG, and free βhCG detecting about 60–70% of cases.\n\nTesting of the mother's blood for fetal DNA is being studied and appears promising in the first trimester. The International Society for Prenatal Diagnosis considers it a reasonable screening option for those women whose pregnancies are at a high risk for trisomy 21. Accuracy has been reported at 98.6% in the first trimester of pregnancy. Confirmatory testing by invasive techniques (amniocentesis, CVS) is still required to confirm the screening result.\n\nEfforts such as early childhood intervention, screening for common problems, medical treatment where indicated, a good family environment, and work-related training can improve the development of children with Down syndrome. Education and proper care can improve quality of life. Raising a child with Down syndrome is more work for parents than raising an unaffected child. Typical childhood vaccinations are recommended.\n\nA number of health organizations have issued recommendations for screening those with Down syndrome for particular diseases. This is recommended to be done systematically.\n\nAt birth, all children should get an electrocardiogram and ultrasound of the heart. Surgical repair of heart problems may be required as early as three months of age. Heart valve problems may occur in young adults, and further ultrasound evaluation may be needed in adolescents and in early adulthood. Due to the elevated risk of testicular cancer, some recommend checking the person's testicles yearly.\n\nHearing aids or other amplification devices can be useful for language learning in those with hearing loss. Speech therapy may be useful and is recommended to be started around 9 months of age. As those with Down syndrome typically have good hand-eye coordination, learning sign language may be possible. Augmentative and alternative communication methods, such as pointing, body language, objects, or pictures, are often used to help with communication. Behavioral issues and mental illness are typically managed with counseling or medications.\nEducation programs before reaching school age may be useful. School-age children with Down syndrome may benefit from inclusive education (whereby students of differing abilities are placed in classes with their peers of the same age), provided some adjustments are made to the curriculum. Evidence to support this, however, is not very strong. In the United States, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act of 1975 requires public schools generally to allow attendance by students with Down syndrome.\nIndividuals with Down syndrome may learn better visually. Drawing may help with language, speech, and reading skills. Children with Down syndrome still often have difficulty with sentence structure and grammar, as well as developing the ability to speak clearly. Several types of early intervention can help with cognitive development. Efforts to develop motor skills include physical therapy, speech and language therapy, and occupational therapy. Physical therapy focuses specifically on motor development and teaching children to interact with their environment. Speech and language therapy can help prepare for later language. Lastly, occupational therapy can help with skills needed for later independence.\n\nTympanostomy tubes are often needed and often more than one set during the person's childhood. Tonsillectomy is also often done to help with sleep apnea and throat infections. Surgery, however, does not always address the sleep apnea and a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machine may be useful. Physical therapy and participation in physical education may improve motor skills. Evidence to support this in adults, however, is not very good.\n\nEfforts to prevent respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection with human monoclonal antibodies should be considered, especially in those with heart problems. In those who develop dementia there is no evidence for memantine, donepezil, rivastigmine, or galantamine.\n\nPlastic surgery has been suggested as a method of improving the appearance and thus the acceptance of people with Down syndrome. It has also been proposed as a way to improve speech. Evidence, however, does not support a meaningful difference in either of these outcomes. Plastic surgery on children with Down syndrome is uncommon, and continues to be controversial. The U.S. National Down Syndrome Society views the goal as one of mutual respect and acceptance, not appearance.\n\nMany alternative medical techniques are used in Down syndrome; however, they are poorly supported by evidence. These include: dietary changes, massage, animal therapy, chiropractic and naturopathy, among others. Some proposed treatments may also be harmful.\n\nBetween 5 and 15% of children with Down syndrome in Sweden attend regular school. Some graduate from high school; however, most do not. Of those with intellectual disability in the United States who attended high school about 40% graduated. Many learn to read and write and some are able to do paid work. In adulthood about 20% in the United States do paid work in some capacity. In Sweden, however, less than 1% have regular jobs. Many are able to live semi-independently, but they often require help with financial, medical, and legal matters. Those with mosaic Down syndrome usually have better outcomes.\n\nIndividuals with Down syndrome have a higher risk of early death than the general population. This is most often from heart problems or infections. Following improved medical care, particularly for heart and gastrointestinal problems, the life expectancy has increased. This increase has been from 12 years in 1912, to 25 years in the 1980s, to 50 to 60 years in the developed world in the 2000s. Currently between 4 and 12% die in the first year of life. The probability of long-term survival is partly determined by the presence of heart problems. In those with congenital heart problems 60% survive to 10 years and 50% survive to 30 years of age. In those without heart problems 85% survive to 10 years and 80% survive to 30 years of age. About 10% live to 70 years of age. The National Down Syndrome Society provide information regarding raising a child with Down syndrome.\n\nGlobally, , Down syndrome occurs in about 1 per 1000 births and results in about 17,000 deaths. More children are born with Down syndrome in countries where abortion is not allowed and in countries where pregnancy more commonly occurs at a later age. About 1.4 per 1000 live births in the United States and 1.1 per 1000 live births in Norway are affected. In the 1950s, in the United States, it occurred in 2 per 1000 live births with the decrease since then due to prenatal screening and abortions. The number of pregnancies with Down syndrome is more than two times greater with many spontaneously aborting. It is the cause of 8% of all congenital disorders.\n\nMaternal age affects the chances of having a pregnancy with Down syndrome. At age 20, the chance is one in 1441; at age 30, it is one in 959; at age 40, it is one in 84; and at age 50 it is one in 44. Although the probability increases with maternal age, 70% of children with Down syndrome are born to women 35 years of age and younger, because younger people have more children. The father's older age is also a risk factor in women older than 35, but not in women younger than 35, and may partly explain the increase in risk as women age.\n\nEnglish physician John Langdon Down first described Down syndrome in 1862, recognizing it as a distinct type of mental disability, and again in a more widely published report in 1866. Édouard Séguin described it as separate from cretinism in 1844. By the 20th century, Down syndrome had become the most recognizable form of mental disability.\n\nIn antiquity, many infants with disabilities were either killed or abandoned. A number of historical pieces of art are believed to portray Down syndrome, including pottery from the pre-Columbian Tumaco-La Tolita culture in present-day Colombia and Ecuador, and the 16th-century painting \"The Adoration of the Christ Child\".\n\nIn the 20th century, many individuals with Down syndrome were institutionalized, few of the associated medical problems were treated, and most died in infancy or early adult life. With the rise of the eugenics movement, 33 of the then 48 U.S. states and several countries began programs of forced sterilization of individuals with Down syndrome and comparable degrees of disability. Action T4 in Nazi Germany made public policy of a program of systematic involuntary euthanization.\n\nWith the discovery of karyotype techniques in the 1950s, it became possible to identify abnormalities of chromosomal number or shape. In 1959, Jérôme Lejeune reported the discovery that Down syndrome resulted from an extra chromosome. However, Lejeune's claim to the discovery has been disputed, and in 2014, the Scientific Council of the French Federation of Human Genetics unanimously awarded its Grand Prize to his colleague Marthe Gautier for her role in this discovery. The discovery was in the laboratory of Raymond Turpin at the Hôpital Trousseau in Paris, France. Jérôme Lejeune and Marthe Gautier were both his students.\n\nAs a result of this discovery, the condition became known as trisomy 21. Even before the discovery of its cause, the presence of the syndrome in all races, its association with older maternal age, and its rarity of recurrence had been noticed. Medical texts had assumed it was caused by a combination of inheritable factors that had not been identified. Other theories had focused on injuries sustained during birth.\nDue to his perception that children with Down syndrome shared facial similarities with those of Blumenbach's Mongolian race, John Langdon Down used the term \"mongoloid\". He felt that the existence of Down syndrome confirmed that all peoples were genetically related. In the 1950s with discovery of the underlying cause as being related to chromosomes, concerns about the race-based nature of the name increased.\n\nIn 1961, 19 scientists suggested that \"mongolism\" had \"misleading connotations\" and had become \"an embarrassing term\". The World Health Organization (WHO) dropped the term in 1965 after a request by the delegation from the Mongolian People's Republic. While the term mongoloid (also mongolism, Mongolian imbecility or idiocy) continued to be used until the early 1980s, it is now considered unacceptable and is no longer in common use.\n\nIn 1975, the United States National Institutes of Health (NIH) convened a conference to standardize the naming and recommended replacing the possessive form, \"Down's syndrome\" with \"Down syndrome\". However, both the possessive and nonpossessive forms remain in use by the general population. The term \"trisomy 21\" is also commonly used.\n\nSome obstetricians argue that not offering screening for Down syndrome is unethical. As it is a medically reasonable procedure, per informed consent, people should at least be given information about it. It will then be the woman's choice, based on her personal beliefs, how much or how little screening she wishes. When results from testing become available, it is also considered unethical not to give the results to the person in question.\n\nSome bioethicists deem it reasonable for parents to select a child who would have the highest well-being. One criticism of this reasoning is that it often values those with disabilities less. Some parents argue that Down syndrome shouldn't be prevented or cured and that eliminating Down syndrome amounts to genocide. The disability rights movement does not have a position on screening, although some members consider testing and abortion discriminatory. Some in the United States who are pro-life support abortion if the fetus is disabled, while others do not. Of a group of 40 mothers in the United States who have had one child with Down syndrome, half agreed to screening in the next pregnancy.\n\nWithin the US, some Protestant denominations see abortion as acceptable when a fetus has Down syndrome, while Orthodox Christians and Roman Catholics often do not. Some of those against screening refer to it as a form of \"eugenics\". Disagreement exists within Islam regarding the acceptability of abortion in those carrying a fetus with Down syndrome. Some Islamic countries allow abortion, while others do not. Women may face stigmatization whichever decision they make.\n\nAdvocacy groups for individuals with Down syndrome began to be formed after the Second World War. These were organizations advocating for the inclusion of people with Down syndrome into the general school system and for a greater understanding of the condition among the general population, as well as groups providing support for families with children living with Down syndrome. Before this individuals with Down syndrome were often placed in mental hospitals or asylums. Organizations included the Royal Society for Handicapped Children and Adults founded in the UK in 1946 by Judy Fryd, Kobato Kai founded in Japan in 1964, the National Down Syndrome Congress founded in the United States in 1973 by Kathryn McGee and others, and the National Down Syndrome Society founded in 1979 in the United States.\n\nThe first World Down Syndrome Day was held on 21 March 2006. The day and month were chosen to correspond with 21 and trisomy, respectively. It was recognized by the United Nations General Assembly in 2011.\n\nEfforts are underway to determine how the extra chromosome 21 material causes Down syndrome, as currently this is unknown, and to develop treatments to improve intelligence in those with the syndrome. One hope is to use stem cells. Other methods being studied include the use of antioxidants, gamma secretase inhibition, adrenergic agonists, and memantine. Research is often carried out on an animal model, the Ts65Dn mouse.\n\n"}
{"id": "10743581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10743581", "title": "Eber Landau", "text": "Eber Landau\n\nEber Landau (November 8, 1878 – October 30, 1959) was a Baltic German-Swiss anatomist and histologist, born in Rēzekne, Latvia.\n\nHe studied medicine at the University of Dorpat, graduating in 1902. Later, he continued his education with studies in anatomy and histology in the laboratory of histology at Munich (1903) and at St. Petersburg as an assistant of Peter Lesgaft (1837–1909). From 1906 to 1912 he worked in Dorpat as a prosector-assistant in the anatomical institute directed by August Rauber (1841-1917). In 1913, he moved to the University of Bern as an associate professor, shortly afterwards relocating to Paris, where he conducted neurological research under the directorship of Joseph Jules Dejerine (1849-1917).\n\nIn 1918 he returned to Bern, where he spent several years working in the institute of anatomy. In 1923 Landau founded the department of histology and embryology at Kaunas University. Here he served as departmental head until 1932, afterwards relocating to the University of Lausanne, where he conducted investigations in the fields of brain anatomy, neurology and neurohistology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35906833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35906833", "title": "Elective (medical)", "text": "Elective (medical)\n\nAn elective is a placement undertaken as part of a medical degree. The content and setting of the placement are largely decided by the student undertaking it, with some students choosing to spend it in a different country.\n\nElective placements are not exclusive to medical degrees; many other degree programmes within the field of healthcare also incorporate electives (such as nursing, dentistry and physiotherapy) and the format is often the same.\n\nAn elective represents a unique opportunity for medical students to experience healthcare in a setting unfamiliar to that in which they are accustomed to studying, or in a place or field of specific interest. This is classically in a low resource setting, but may also be to experience a specialist field, a place the student is considering working in the future, or for a variety of other reasons.\n\nPlacements abroad may provide experience of differing practices, but also allow students to encounter medical conditions they are less used to seeing at home. In addition, students often retrospectively describe how their placements broadened their horizons with regards to the social issues affecting healthcare in developing countries.\n\nA placement in a particular specialist setting may allow students insight into a potential career path, or allow students to participate in the research or implementation of new treatments or practices. \n\nAn elective is usually undertaken in the penultimate or final year of study of a medical degree, often after students have finished their final exams. The university usually specifies the dates during which an elective can be undertaken by students.\n\nElectives are usually entirely self-arranged, with the student organising travel, accommodation, the placement itself, and other aspects like travel insurance and indemnity insurance. Often the hospital will help organise accommodation, and indemnity cover may be automatic depending on the student's existing policy. Some students recruit the services of companies which specialise in organising medical electives. Students often share their experiences on the internet, and good placements become well-known. Popular destinations can fill up 12 months in advance or more\n\nMost students need to cover travel and living costs, many needing to cover accommodation, and some are charged administration or tuition costs, which can be up to $1,000 or more . \n\nMany students fund their electives personally, but financial help is occasionally available in the forms of bursaries, prizes or scholarships, either from the student's university or from societies or private companies. In these cases, the sponsor may require that the student undertakes some form of project whilst on their elective to justify the expense.\n\nRequirements of students vary from medical school to medical school. Some (such as Aberdeen) require students to submit a written project as part of their placement, whereas other institutions utilise few formal assessments.\n\nStudents are still subject to all the ethical and professional requirements they would be at their home institution, such as the GMC's requirement that students at British med schools \"recognise and work within the limits of their competence\". It is immoral and illegal for unregistered medical students to work as if doctors, despite the fact that their level of skill and expertise is often comparable to the professionals they will work with on the placement.\n"}
{"id": "27340647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27340647", "title": "Fitness professional", "text": "Fitness professional\n\nA fitness professional is a professional in the field of fitness and exercise, most often instruction (fitness instructor), including aerobics and yoga instructors and authors of fitness instruction books or manuals. \n\nFitness topics may also include nutrition, weight-loss, and self-help. Fitness careers are distinguished from exercise science careers such as athletic training, however the various types of fitness certifications have more and more in common: the, \"distinctions...have become blurred, with more similarities than differences given the common background that all fitness professionals must possess.\"\n\nFitness professionals screen participants for exercise programs, evaluate various fitness components, prescribe exercise to improve these components, and may also help people with specific or chronic conditions. Fitness professionals help challenge an individual by increasing their performance, as compared to when a person would workout on their own. They also teach a person new workouts and how to improve their form, performance and help achieve goals.The key roles and duties of a fitness professional are to: motivate, assist clients and measure your heart rate and body fat levels. Trainers need to be patient, be well organized and have time management as well as interpersonal skills.“You are in a helping profession. Although you are not a social worker, psychologist or guidance counselor, neither are you simply a technician with advanced training in exercise science, biomechanics, program design and assessment methodology.”(Jim and Nettie Gavin) Notable fitness professionals or former fitness professionals include Richard Simmons, Susan Powter, John Sitaras and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (\"Arnold Schwarzenegger's Total Body Workout\").\n\nCertified fitness professionals must maintain up-to-date on all certifications in order to instruct at particular health clubs and gyms. Often, fitness professionals will have some education in kinesiology, anatomy, and biomechanics to aid in their fitness career.\n\nIn Canada, Canadian Fitness Education Services (CFES) provides national fitness leadership program modules to take candidates through the steps in Aquafit, Group Fitness and/or Weight Training Instructor and Personal Trainer national certification.\n\nPersonal training, Athletic training, and physical therapy are all technically distinct specialties with different processes and requirements for certification. In the United States the main certifying agency for personal trainers is ACSM (the American College of Sports Medicine), while the main certifying agency for athletic trainers is NATA (the National Athletic Trainers' Association). Obtaining certification or licensure as a physical therapist requires that you attend and graduate from a masters or doctoral program in physical therapy.\n\nA coach can help amateur and professional athletes to be successful in a particular sport by teaching them the required skills needed. However, they can coach more than one sport to multiple people.Their role involves identifying an athletes strengths and weaknesses as well as their opponent. Coaches also improve the physical condition of an athlete to help increase their full performance; improve form, techniques, skills and stamina. A coach must be ready to work long and irregular hours and these can include evenings, weekends and holidays. Typically, coaches are required to be 18 years old or older and have a Bachelor’s degree.\n\nThe median annual pay for a personal trainer in the US is $58,875. The highest paid college coach in 2017 was Nick Saban (University of Alabama) who earned $11.1 million. Fitness professionals receive benefits that can include healthcare, paid time off, a pension. There is also the opportunity to accelerate personal achievements and the option to work full-time or part-time. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, \"employment of fitness trainers and instructors is projected to grow 8 percent from 2014 to 2024, about as fast as the average for all occupations.”\n\nFitness professionals need to at least have a high school degree and in some fields, a bachelor’s degree in a related field. Additionally, they must learn CPR (cardiovascular resuscitation) which can be learnt American Red Cross offers classes that allow people to get a CPR class, First aid, and AED (Automated External Defibrillator) Certification. They also offer lifeguard training, swimming and water safety.\n\nOther qualifications depending on the specific field can include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46794103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46794103", "title": "Francisco Cruz Castro", "text": "Francisco Cruz Castro\n\nFrancisco Cruz Castro (4 October 1820 in Santa Ana, El Salvador – 20 May 1895 in La Esperanza, Honduras) was a Salvadoran-born Honduran doctor, lawyer, politician and diplomat. He was Minister of Government from 1844-1846, Magistrate of the Superior Tribunal of Justice from 1850-1852, Minister of Foreign Relations from 1856-1858 and Provisional President of Honduras from September 5, 1869 to January 14, 1870.\n"}
{"id": "9641393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9641393", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Iraq", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Iraq\n\nOfficially the AIDS-HIV pandemic came to Iraq via contaminated blood in 1986, with haemophiliacs being the primary victims. Over the decades, educational and treatment initiatives have been slowed by prevailing cultural values as well as severe economic hardships brought about by sanctions and war.\n\nAccording to the Iraqi government, and a subsequent lawsuit, the pandemic came to Iraq via contaminated blood in 1986, with haemophiliacs being the initial victims. The Ba'athists relocated Iraqis found to be infected with AIDS-HIV to a segregated medical facility. No one was allowed to visit these facilities, patients were basically prisoners and were given secret burials. Ignorance about the disease was commonplace, even among the government itself.\n\nThe former Iraqi President, Saddam Hussein, wrongly believed that the disease could be spread through casual contact and felt that infected Iraqis should be exterminated or imprisoned. When the regime fell, these segregated hospitals were looted and the surviving patients were left to wander the streets.\n\nAs early as 2004 the United Nations IRIN news service reported on the challenges involved in AIDS-HIV treatment and education in Iraq. Almost no education existed regarding AIDS-HIV during the Ba'athist regime and thus a high degree of ignorance and fear surrounds the pandemic and its victims.\n\nThe Iraqi government offers free medical services and financial assistance to all Iraqi citizens living with AIDS-HIV. This includes regular checkups for the infected person, along with checkups for their partners and family members. Public service announcements and some education in the schools have begun at a slow pace.\n\nGovernment health officials have some reason to be concerned, as some Muslim fundamentalist and sectarian militias have been known to harass and even kill infected Iraqis on the grounds that being infected with AIDS-HIV is evidence of sin.\n\nIn Baghdad several clinics specialize in AIDS-HIV, while outside of the capital, there are similar clinics in each region, although there are still shortages in medical care.\n\nIn 2005 representatives from the Iraqi Health Ministry traveled to Jordan to speak with public health officials about Jordanian efforts to stop the spread of the pandemic.\n\nIn 2006 the government in northern Iraq, Kurdistan, began to deport foreigners found to be HIV-positive because the government does not have the resources of facilities to offer treatment to its own citizens, let alone foreigners.\n\nIgnorance about the pandemic remains widespread and it is taboo to discuss the ways in which the virus can be spread or to encourage the usage of condoms.\n"}
{"id": "3467849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3467849", "title": "Half-life of knowledge", "text": "Half-life of knowledge\n\nThe half-life of knowledge or half-life of facts is the amount of time that has to elapse before half of the knowledge or facts in a particular area is superseded or shown to be untrue. These coined terms belong to the field of quantitative analysis of science known as scientometrics.\n\nThese ideas of half-life applied to different fields differ from the concept of half-life in physics in that there is no guarantee that the knowledge or facts in areas of study are declining exponentially. It is unclear that there is any way to establish what constitutes \"knowledge\" in a particular area, as opposed to mere opinion or theory. \n\nBecause scientific knowledge is growing by a factor of ten every 50 years, this means that half of what scientists may have known about a particular subject will be wrong or obsolete in 45 years.\n\nAn engineering degree went from having a half life of 35 years in ca. 1930 to about 10 years in 1960.\n\nDonald Hebb estimated the half-life of psychology to be five years.\nThe concept of \"half-life of knowledge\" is attributed to Fritz Machlup (1962).\n\nThe similar concept of a \"half-life of facts\" was coined by Samuel Arbesman, a Harvard mathematician and scholar at the Kaufmann Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35327214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35327214", "title": "Health in Mongolia", "text": "Health in Mongolia\n\nSince 1990, key health indicators in Mongolia like life expectancy and infant and child mortality have steadily improved, both due to social changes and to improvement in the health sector. Yet, adult health deteriorated during the 1990s and the first decade of the 21st century and mortality rates increased significantly. Smallpox, typhus, plague, poliomyelitis, and diphtheria were eradicated by 1981. The Mongolian Red Cross Society focusses on preventative work. The Confederation of Mongolian Trade Unions established a network of sanatoriums.\n\nSerious problems remain, especially in the countryside. According to a 2011 study by the World Health Organization, Mongolia's capital city of Ulaanbaatar has the second-most fine particle pollution of any city in the world. Poor air quality is also the largest occupational hazard, as over two-thirds of occupational disease in Mongolia is dust induced chronic bronchitis or pneumoconiosis.\n\nAverage childbirth (fertility rate) is around 2.25–1.87 per woman (2007) and average life expectancy is 68.5 years (2011). Infant mortality is at 1.9% to 4% and child mortality is at 4.3%.\n\nMongolia has the highest rate of liver cancer in the world by a significant margin.\n\nThe Ministry of Health is responsible for the provision of Public healthcare under the Citizen’s Health Insurance Law. Citizens are legally required to register and have annual check-ups. Finance is through the Health Insurance Fund established in 1994. Patients are required to make copayments of 10% for secondary care and 15% for tertiary care. in 2009 out-of-pocket payments made up 49% of total health expenditure.\n\nMongolian traditional medicine was repressed in the twentieth century but is now recognized. The Institute of Traditional Medicine was established in 1961, and the Institute of Natural Compounds in 1973. The National Specialized Hospital caters for traditional medicine patients and has 100 beds. It sees 40-50 outpatients daily. In 2006 about 5% of all hospital in-patients were treated by traditional medicine. In 2012 there were 82 private traditional medicine clinics, 63 of them in Ulaanbaatar. Since 1990 the Health Sciences University of Mongolia has had a Traditional Medicine Faculty. In 2007 there were 1,538 doctors trained in traditional medicine.\n\nA hierarchy of clinics and hospitals was established in the 1980s. A somon medical station, with a doctor, then an inter-somon hospital, covering a wider area and above that an aymag general hospital covering an area of about a 200-kilometre radius. There were 4,600 physicians in the country in 1985, 24.8 per 10,000 people. About half of them were in Ulaanbaatar where there was an oncology centre and a 600-bed isolation hospital for infectious diseases. There were about 8,500 nurses and 3,800 physician's assistants. In 1986 there were 112 hospitals. The Health Insurance Fund will not pay for people who go directly to hospitals without a referral.\n\nThe health sector comprises 17 specialized hospitals and centers, 4 regional diagnostic and treatment centers, 9 district and 21 \"aimag\" general hospitals, 323 \"soum\" hospitals, 18 \"feldsher\" posts, 233 family group practices, 536 private hospitals, and 57 drug supply companies/pharmacies. In 2002, the total number of health workers was 33,273, of whom 6823 were doctors, 788 pharmacists, 7802 nurses, and 14,091 mid-level personnel. At present, there are 27.7 physicians and 75.7 hospital beds per 10,000 inhabitants.\n\nThere has been a reduction in the number of public hospitals since 1998. The number of private hospitals (mostly very small) and clinics has increased from 683 in 2005 to 1184 in 2011.\n\n\n132 items are included on the Essential Drugs List. If they are prescribed in the public health system pharmacies are reimbursed for 50-80% of the price, which is controlled. Medication is not always available in rural areas. There are 5 traditional medicine manufacturing units and they produce more than 200 types of traditional medicine. The total value in 2009 was US$1.4 million. 30 traditional products have been registered and some are included on the Essential Drugs List. \n"}
{"id": "14742629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14742629", "title": "Jack Wennberg", "text": "Jack Wennberg\n\nJohn E. \"Jack\" Wennberg (born June 2, 1934) is the pioneer and leading researcher of unwarranted variation in the healthcare industry. In four decades of work, Wennberg has documented the geographic variation in the healthcare that patients receive in the United States. In 1988, he founded the Center for the Evaluative Clinical Sciences at Dartmouth Medical School (now The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice at Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth) to address that unwarranted variation in healthcare.\n\nHe is the Peggy Y. Thomson Professor Emeritus in the Evaluative Clinical Sciences & Founder and Director Emeritus of The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice (formerly the Center for the Evaluative Clinical Sciences), and has been Professor in the Department of Community and Family Medicine since 1980 and in the Department of Medicine since 1989. Wennberg is the founding editor of the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care, a series of reports on how health care is used and distributed in the United States.\n\nIn June 2007, Wennberg stepped down as director of the CECS, now known as The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice (TDI).\n\nWennberg is a graduate of Stanford University and the McGill University Faculty of Medicine. His postgraduate training was in internal medicine and nephrology at Johns Hopkins University, but he became interested in the application of epidemiological principles to the health care system while pursuing his master's degree in Public Health at Johns Hopkins.\n\nWennberg is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences and of the Johns Hopkins University Society of Scholars.\n\nHe cofounded the Informed Medical Decisions Foundation in Boston, Massachusetts, a nonprofit organization to provide objective scientific information to patients about their treatment choices by using interactive media.\n\nWennberg is the Founding Editor of \"The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care\", which examines the patterns of medical resource intensity and use in the United States. The Atlas project also has reported on patterns of end-of-life care, inequities in the Medicare reimbursement system, and the underuse of preventive care.\n\n\"When Jack started his work, geographic variation in health care—and the resulting variation in health care costs—was largely unknown and unremarked upon,\" said \"Health Affairs\" founding editor John Iglehart, who presented an award from the journal to Wennberg. \"But thanks to Jack’s persistence, the idea that the care you receive is largely determined by where you live—and not necessarily by what is most appropriate for you—has become part of the common parlance of health policy.\"\n\nIndeed, Wennberg’s work has shown that areas that spend more and provide more services often experience worse outcomes than lower-spending areas that provide less intensive care. In a 2002 \"Health Affairs\" article, Wennberg proposed a Medicare reform plan based on reducing unwarranted regional variations in spending by the program.\n\nIn the latest Dartmouth Atlas, Wennberg and colleagues state that \"the Medicare system could reduce spending by at least 30 percent while improving the medical care of the most severely ill Americans.\"\n\nWennberg's recent work has focused on documenting outcomes and communicating outcomes information to patients. That focus is reflected in his article in the November/December 2007 issue of Health Affairs. In the first part of a two-part article, Wennberg and his coauthors urge the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to use its pay-for-performance program to ensure that patients are both informed and empowered to choose appropriate discretionary treatments.\n\nIn 1967, Wennberg worked with the Regional Medical Program created with a $350,000 grant from President Lyndon Johnson and began analyzing Medicare data to determine how well hospitals and doctors were performing. \"Our results were fascinating, because they ran completely counter to what conventional wisdom said they would be. Everyone expected that we would clearly see underservice in the rural hospital service areas remote from academic medical centers. But when we looked at the data, we found tremendous variation in every aspect of healthcare delivery, even among communities served by academic medical centers. We found the same thing when we compare healthcare in the Boston and New Haven communities served by some of the finest academic medical centers in the world. The basic premise—that medicine was driven by science and by physicians capable of making clinical decisions based on well-established fact and theory—was simply incompatible with the data we saw. It was immediately apparent that suppliers were more important in driving demand than had been previously realized,\" stated Wennberg.\n\n\"The solution for unwarranted variation in preference-sensitive services is shared decision-making—the active involvement of the patient in choosing. Numerous clinical trials have shown that the patient decision-support programs, such as those available from Health Dialog and the Informed Medical Decisions Foundation, result in better decision and often a reduction in utilization. But implementation isn't easy,\" he says. \"We need to find a way to encourage and compensate physicians for the time they spend on educating and discussing things with patients.\"\n\nAlbert Mulley, a physician at Massachusetts General Hospital, had been conducting research with Wennberg of Dartmouth by the Informed Medical Decisions Foundation. Together, they had built \"substantial evidence that there's a huge variation in how doctors interpret their science through their own values and preferences.\" George Bennett, a serial entrepreneur \"couldn't resist getting involved\" in helping the process of enabling patients become a part of the decision-making process. As stated by Bennett, \"It was one of life's strange twists, where they had something that was morally right, medically right, politically right and it saved money.\"\n\nBy teaming with Kevin Kimberlin of Spencer Trask & Co., Health Dialog received its initial funding.\n\n\"Americans have assumed that the fact that we spend so much more on health care than any other country stands as proof that we have the best health-care system in the world. But over the past 20 years, work done by Dartmouth's Wennberg and Elliott Fisher has forced U.S. health care leaders to acknowledge that this simply isn’t true.\"\n\nThe potential savings under such an ideal arrangement are immense. If every Medicare provider in the country spent at the same rate as the lowest 10% of providers in the program, overall costs would be slashed by 30%. That alone is enough to pay for the elusive Medicare drug benefit. Additional savings might well accrue by implementing shared decision-making and reducing underuse of preventive services and medical errors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1019435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019435", "title": "Julia Lathrop", "text": "Julia Lathrop\n\nJulia Clifford Lathrop (June 29, 1858 – April 15, 1932) was an American social reformer in the area of education, social policy, and children's welfare. As director of the United States Children's Bureau from 1912 to 1922, she was the first woman ever to head a United States federal bureau.\n\nJulia Clifford Lathrop was born in Rockford, Illinois. Julia's father, a lawyer and personal friend of Abraham Lincoln, helped establish the Republican Party and served in the state legislature (1856–57) and Congress (1877–79). Her mother was a suffragist active in women's rights activities in Rockford and a graduate of the first class of Rockford Female Seminary.\n\nLathrop attended Rockford Female Seminary where she met Jane Addams and Ellen Gates Starr. After one year, she transferred to Vassar College, developing her own multidisciplinary studies in statistics, institutional history, sociology, and community organization and graduated in 1880. Afterwards, she worked in her father's law office first as a secretary and then studying the law for herself.\n\nIn 1890, Lathrop moved to Chicago where she joined Jane Addams, Ellen Gates Starr, Alzina Stevens, Edith Abbott, Grace Abbott, Florence Kelley, Mary McDowell, Alice Hamilton, Sophonisba Breckinridge and other social reformers at Hull House. Lathrop ran a discussion group called the Plato Club in the early days of the House. The women at Hull House actively campaigned to persuade Congress to pass legislation to protect children. During the depression years of the early '90s Lathrop served as a volunteer investigator of relief applicants, visiting homes to document the needs of the families.\n\nIn 1893, Lathrop was appointed as the first ever woman member of the Illinois State Board of Charities, beginning her lifelong work in civil service reform: advocating for the training of professional social workers and standardizing employment procedures. This would lead to opening the labor market for educated women as well as improving social services in Progressive Era cities and towns. Over the next few years she helped introduce reforms such as the appointment of female doctors in state hospitals and the removal of the insane from the state workhouses.\n\nReacting to pressure from Progressive women reformers for the appointment of a woman for the newly created Children's Bureau, in 1912, President William Taft appointed Lathrop as the first bureau chief. Over the next nine years Lathrop directed research into child labor, infant mortality, maternal mortality, juvenile delinquency, mothers' pensions and illegitimacy.\n\nThe Children's Bureau under Lathrop (1912–21) (known as \"America's First Official Mother\") and her successors became an administrative unit that not only created child welfare policy but also led its implementation. For many conservative women, the Bureau's focus on maternal and child welfare gave them a role in politics for the first time—something that the suffrage or women's rights movements had not offered them. The Bureau expanded its budget and personnel to focus on a scientific approach to motherhood in order to reduce infant and maternal mortality, improve child health and advocate for trained care for children with disabilities. Lathrop modeled the Children's Bureau investigations from the work she did while at Hull-House. The Bureau also lobbied to abolish child labor. Scientific language became critical to the reform efforts such as the baby-saving campaigns in towns with large working class and immigrant populations where the middle class maternalists battled contemporary beliefs in the inevitability of high infant mortality rates. \"Mother-work in the community\" meant that women educated in the latest scientific theories about children's health and safety would lead the movement for child welfare reform.\n\nIn her first annual report for the agency, Lathrop described the plans for expansion: promotion of birth registration, infant mortality field studies, production of instructional pamphlets and reports, expand the study of child labor laws, explore issues regarding mothers' pensions, and study the status of \"dependent, defective, and delinquent children.\" Lathrop wrote in 1914: \"Work for infant welfare is coming to be regarded as more than a philanthropy or an expression of good will. It is a profoundly important public concern which tests the public spirit and the democracy of a community.\"\n\nUnlike the National Congress of Mothers, Lathrop's leadership of the Children's Bureau relied on her belief in the New Woman's right to freedom for individual development and opportunities, including a college degree of equal merit to men's and a decent job. However, Lathrop was careful to insist that motherhood was \"the most important calling in the world\" and to deny that women should have career ambitions. This way Lathrop could avoid controversy even while she built public support for the new agency.\nIn 1917, the American Association for Labor Legislation proposed a national health insurance act that included a provision for weekly cash allocations for pregnant women. Lathrop went against the private insurance industry and the American Medical Association to support this proposal, believing that the maternity benefit systems already in place in Germany, England and France left too many women and their babies uninsured. Lathrop argued in an address before the American Public Health Association's 1918 meeting in Chicago that U.S. leaders needed to address the reasons for poverty in order to address children's health needs—that high infant mortality among the poor and working class in American cities was not just due to ignorance or laziness. Lathrop asked: \"Which is the more safe and sane conclusion! That 88 per cent of all these fathers were incorrigibly indolent or below normal mentally, or that sound public economy demands an irreducible minimum living standard to be sustained by a minimum wage and other such expedients as may be developed in a determined effort to give every child a fair chance?\"\n\nThe attitude of most of the staff in the Children's Bureau and other government agencies however, was that women—especially with children—should not work outside of the home even if impoverished. Any connections between children's health and such issues as expansion of workers' insurance, minimum wage or sanitation systems lost credence. The popular strategy remained focused on \"Americanizing\" immigrant workers and teaching white mothers how to take care of babies. It is important to note that the Bureau chose not to address the horrifyingly high mortality rates among babies in families of color. In the South, much of the public health campaigns were undertaken by African-American, Hispanic or black clubwomen working in their own segregated communities.\n\nIn 1921 the Sheppard-Towner Maternity and Infancy Act became the first federally funded social welfare measure in the United States. The law provided federal matching grants to the states for prenatal and child health clinics, visiting nurses for expectant and new mothers, distribution of information on nutrition and hygiene as well as midwife training. Contrary to Lathrop's original ideas, the final version of the law did not provide any financial aid or medical care.\n\nThe first 30 years of the twentieth century marked a transition between traditional social medicine that included the use of relatives or local midwives and the rise of a modern medical management of childbirth and childrearing by experts outside the family and home. However, as the federal bureaucracy blossomed in the years after World War II, the only agency focused solely on children lost its power and influence.\n\nAs early as 1898, at the third Annual Illinois Conference on Charities, organized by the philanthropist Lucy Flower and Julia Lathrop, reformers called for a separate system of courts for children. Lathrop's experience at the Hull House and as a Charities Board member had given her firsthand knowledge of the conditions for children in county poorhouses and jails. Prior to the reform era, children over the age of seven were imprisoned with adults. Lathrop helped found the country's first juvenile court in 1899, and the Chicago Woman's Club established the Juvenile Court Committee (electing Lathrop as its first president in 1903) to pay the salaries of fifteen probation officers and run a detention home located at 625 West Adams Street.\n\nBy 1904, Julia Lathrop helped organize and then became the president of the Juvenile Psychopathic Institute. The director was psychologist William A. Healy who led scientific studies of the physical and mental health of the children, shifting away from the belief that environment alone was responsible for a child's delinquent behavior. Together with members of the National Congress of Mothers Lathrop worked to organize a juvenile court movement nationally with justice law reformers such as Judge Ben Lindsey (who later chaired the National Conference of Charities and Correction's juvenile court subcommittee).\n\nIn 1918, President Woodrow Wilson sent Lathrop and Grace Abbott to represent the U.S. at an international conference on child welfare. There Lathrop consulted on the formation of a childcare bureau in the newly formed country of Czechoslovakia. After her retirement from the Children's Bureau in 1922, Lathrop became president of the Illinois League of Women Voters. She also helped form the National Committee of Mental Illness. In 1925 Lathrop represented the U.S. in Switzerland at the Child Welfare Committee established by the League of Nations.\n\nThere is a residence hall at Rockford University and an elementary school in Rockford named after Lathrop. An intermediate school in Santa Ana, California also bears her name. Although a residence hall at Vassar College is named for Dr. Edward Lathrop, a charter trustee, he was not Julia's father. Julia's father was William Lathrop, a lawyer and (briefly) a congressman, from Rockford, IL. In 1938, the Chicago Housing Authority opened the Julia C. Lathrop Homes, a public housing project in the North Center neighborhood on Chicago's north side.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24182159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24182159", "title": "Knowbility", "text": "Knowbility\n\nKnowbility is an American non-governmental organization based in Austin, Texas, working to support the independence and empowerment of people with disabilities by promoting the use and improving the availability of accessible information technology. One of Knowbility's best known programs is its Accessibility Internet Rally, a web-building competition that brings together volunteer web designers and nonprofits.\n\nThe seeds of Knowbility began in 1998 with a group of individuals in Austin, Texas representing various businesses and nonprofits, who felt that there was a broad lack of knowledge and skills among website designers and information technology developers about how to create web sites that are accessible to people with sight impairments, hearing impairments, or other disabilities. That same year, the US Congress enacted Section 508, an amendment to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, requiring federal agencies to make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities.\n\nThe group in Austin created the Accessibility Internet Rally, a program produced by the Metropolitan Austin Interactive Network (MAIN), the Central Texas chapter of the National Easter Seals Society, and Goodwill Industries of Austin, with assistance from the virtual volunteering Project. It was held in September 1998 at the Infotec Training Center in Austin, Texas. The first AIR program was created in the style of MAIN's \"web-raisings\", where volunteers came together in one facility using multiple computers with Internet access and built web sites for nonprofit organizations in one day. The AIR program was different in that it was a competition, with web sites judged based on both their visual appeal, usefulness and accessibility. Each competing team was composed of one or two representatives of an Austin area nonprofit and four to six volunteer web developers. Altogether, more than 120 people were part of competing teams, representing 40 different not-for-profit, public sector and technology companies.\n\nThe program proved so successful that organizers decided to create a nonprofit that would not only make AIR an annual event in Austin, but would also create other programs and training for a national audience to promote accessibility in information technology.\n\nIn 1999, in addition to hosting another AIR-Austin, Knowbility staff and volunteers developed an Accessible Web Page Design Curriculum that was freely distributed on its web site. By 2000, Knowbility had achieved a national profile: Knowbility was mentioned on an episode of The Oprah Winfrey Show in 2000 dealing with technology issues. On September 21, 2000, the White House issued a press release to highlight programs across the country helping to bridge the digital divide for people with disabilities; the Rocky Mountain AIR program was mentioned by President Bill Clinton as a noteworthy initiative. AIR was one of three programs selected for recognition by the Drucker Foundation in October 2000. That same year, Knowbility received an awarded for Notable Achievement in the public service category of the Texas Interactive Media Awards. Also in 2000, Knowbility Board Chair Steve Guengerich and intern Josh Blakeley were featured guests of a panel discussion in Washington DC. at a National Labor Summit, where AIR activities were highlighted as a \"best practice\" in contributing to the employment of people with disabilities.\n\nKnowbility was invited to ensure accessibility of the \"ATSTAR\" initiative. ATSTAR is an acronym that stands for \"Assistive Technology – Strategies, Tools, Accommodations, and Resources.\" It is a series of computer based teacher training modules to help teachers, administrators and parents understand the legal requirements and the best practices for assessing student need for assistive technology and implementing it in the classroom. The Texas Education Agency, through their Technology Integration in Education (TIE) grant, awarded a grant to the Austin Independent School District (AISD) to fund the development of ATSTAR. Also collaborating on the initiative was Austin Community College, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin Harvard School, Sylvan Learning Center, Far South Community Schools, and Region XIII Education Service Center. Knowbility managed the accessibility of the multi-media interface. The project produced a replicable CD and web-based assistive technology training model designed to prepare instructional staff at the campus level to conduct assessments, collect data, and integrate assistive technology into the instructional setting. As the project was completed, Knowbility assumed management of the program and ATSTAR is now being used by the Georgia Project for Assistive Technology and many other educators and teachers in training. ATSTAR won recognition for outstanding community collaboration from the Texas State Legislature in May 2002.\n\nIn April 2001, the San Francisico Women on the Web (SF WoW) recognized Knowbility Executive Director Sharron Rush as one of their Top 25 Women of the Web for her work to raise awareness of the need and the societal benefits of greater Internet accessibility. The next year, Rush received the Dewey Winburne Community Service Award at the SXSW Interactive Media Conference, largely because of her work with Knowbility.\n\nIn 2002, Knowbility founder and executive director Sharron Rush, along with long-time Knowbility volunteer and trainer John M. Slatin, finished the book \"Maximum Accessibility: Making Your Web Site More Usable for Everyone\", published by Addison-Wesley. In 2003, Knowbility received the TEC Champion Award for Outstanding Technology Leadership from the Washington DC based Education Technology Think Tank and CTCNet.\n\nSharron Rush has served since 2007 as an invited expert to the Education and Outreach Working Group (EOWG) of the Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) of the W3C. Since May 2009, she also serves as liaison from WAI to the e-Government Interest Group as it develops standards and best practices for using the Web to improve government accountability and transparency.\n\nAIR continues annually in Austin, since 2002 in conjunction with SXSW. An AIR event is also hosted at St. Edward's University, and AIR events have been conducted in Atlanta, Dallas, Denver, Houston, San Antonio and San Francisco. Volunteer teams have included employees of various corporations and businesses, including IBM, IntelliQuest and Dell, and government agencies, such as Texas Parks and Wildlife, the Texas State Library & Archives and the City of Austin, as well as individual volunteers forming teams independently.\n\nThe ATSTAR program continues to train schools and community technology projects in techniques to include students with disabilities in learning activities related to computer technology.\n\nKnowbility provides a variety of programs featuring basic and advanced training in accessible web design techniques, and is often consulted by companies and government agencies seeking to comply with state, federal, and global mandates for accessibility. Knowbility also produces three-day accessibility training institutes in Texas and California. Since 2003, Knowbility has produced The John Slatin Access U, in partnership with St. Edward's University in Austin each May. In 2005, the Pacific DBTAC, the regional Disability Business Technical Assistance Center, invited Knowbility to replicate this training on the West Coast. The first California Web Accessibility Conference (CalWAC) was produced that year and, the following year, the Chancellor's Office of the California State University System offered to host CalWAC; the training institute was held at CSU Long Beach in 2006 through 2009.\n\nKnowbility was an original and ardent promoter of Bobby, a free online tool provided by the Centre for Applied Special Technology (CAST) used to validate websites for WAI and Section 508 compliance.\n\nKnowbility has one main office in Austin, Texas. As of August 2009, there are 17 full-time paid staff members. The number of part-time paid staff members, consultants and volunteers varies from month-to-month, depending on what activities Knowbility is undertaking at that time. Knowbility is governed by a board of directors, with most of its members based in Austin, Texas.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53039451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53039451", "title": "Leonard Linkow", "text": "Leonard Linkow\n\nLeonard I. Linkow (February 25, 1926 – January 26, 2017) was an American dentist and pioneer in the field of oral implantology. In 1969, he was nominated for a Nobel Prize in medicine, making him the only dentist to be nominated for the prize. Linkow held 36 patents in dental science.\n\nLinkow was born in Brooklyn, New York on February 25, 1926. He played baseball in high school and was signed to contract by the New York Giants to play for their minor league affiliate in Springfield, Ohio.\n\nHe worked as a radio operator in the U.S. Army Air Force during World War II.\n\nTurning down a career in professional baseball, he attended New York University's College of Dentistry, graduating in 1952.\n\nLinkow placed his first dental implant in 1952. In his New York City dental practice, he treated over 100,000 patients.\n\nHis innovations in oral implantology include the blade implant, the self-tapping ventplant root form implant, the tripodal subperiosteal implant, and the internal hex design for root form implants.\n\nLinkow served as the president of the American Academy of Implant Dentistry in 1974 and president of the American Board of Oral Implantology in 1993. He co-founded the American Society of Dental Esthetics along with Irwin Smigel.\n\nIn addition to lecturing internationally, Linkow also authored 18 books and about 200 journal articles.\n\nLinkow was clinical professor at New York University, Temple University in Pennsylvania, the University of Pittsburgh, and Lille University in France.\n\nLinkow died on January 26, 2017 at the age of 90.\n\n\n\nThree institutes are named after Linkow: the Linkow International Institute of Oral Implantology in Bari, Italy; the Linkow International Institute of Oral Implantology in St. Petersburg, Russia; and Linkow Implant Institute-Caribbean in Kingston, Jamaica.\n\n"}
{"id": "295711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295711", "title": "Linseed oil", "text": "Linseed oil\n\nLinseed oil, also known as flaxseed oil or flax oil, is a colourless to yellowish oil obtained from the dried, ripened seeds of the flax plant (\"Linum usitatissimum\"). The oil is obtained by pressing, sometimes followed by solvent extraction. Linseed oil is a drying oil, meaning it can polymerize into a solid form. Owing to its polymer-forming properties, linseed oil can be used on its own or blended with combinations of other oils, resins or solvents as an impregnator, drying oil finish or varnish in wood finishing, as a pigment binder in oil paints, as a plasticizer and hardener in putty, and in the manufacture of linoleum. Linseed oil use has declined over the past several decades with increased availability of synthetic alkyd resins—which function similarly but resist yellowing.\n\nLinseed oil is an edible oil in demand as a nutritional supplement, as a source of α-Linolenic acid, (an omega-3 fatty acid). In parts of Europe, it is traditionally eaten with potatoes and quark. It is regarded as a delicacy due to its hearty taste, that enhances the flavour of quark, which is otherwise bland.\n\nLinseed oil is a triglyceride, like other fats. Linseed oil is distinctive for its unusually large amount of α-linolenic acid, which has a distinctive reaction with oxygen in air. Specifically, the fatty acids in a typical linseed oil are of the following types:\n\nHaving a high content of di- and tri-unsaturated esters, linseed oil is particularly susceptible to polymerization reactions upon exposure to oxygen in air. This polymerization, which is called 'drying', results in the rigidification of the material. The drying process can be so exothermic as to pose a fire hazard under certain circumstances. To prevent premature drying, linseed oil-based products (oil paints, putty) should be stored in airtight containers.\n\nLike some other drying oils, linseed oil exhibits fluorescence under UV light after degradation.\n\nMost applications of linseed oil exploit its drying properties, i.e., the initial material is liquid or at least pliable and the aged material is rigid but not brittle. The water-repelling (hydrophobic) nature of the resulting hydrocarbon-based material is advantageous.\n\nLinseed oil is a common carrier used in oil paint. It can also be used as a painting medium, making oil paints more fluid, transparent and glossy. It is available in varieties such as cold-pressed, alkali-refined, sun-bleached, sun-thickened, and polymerised (stand oil). The introduction of linseed oil was a significant advance in the technology of oil painting.\n\nTraditional glazing putty, consisting of a paste of chalk powder and linseed oil, is a sealant for glass windows that hardens within a few weeks of application and can then be painted over. The durability of putty is owed to the drying properties of linseed oil.\n\nWhen used as a wood finish, linseed oil dries slowly and shrinks little upon hardening. Linseed oil does not cover the surface as varnish does, but soaks into the (visible and microscopic) pores, leaving a shiny but not glossy surface that shows off the grain of the wood. A linseed oil finish is easily scratched, and easily repaired. Only wax finishes are less protective. Liquid water penetrates a linseed oil finish in mere minutes, and water vapour bypasses it almost completely. Garden furniture treated with linseed oil may develop mildew. Oiled wood may be yellowish and is likely to darken with age. Because it fills the pores, linseed oil partially protects wood from denting by compression.\n\nLinseed oil is a traditional finish for gun stocks, though very fine finish may require months to obtain. Several coats of linseed oil is the traditional protective coating for the raw willow wood of cricket bats; it is used so that the wood retains some moisture. New cricket bats are coated with linseed oil and knocked-in to perfection so that they last longer. Linseed oil is also often used by billiards or pool cue-makers for cue shafts, as a lubricant/protectant for wooden recorders, and used in place of epoxy to seal modern wooden surfboards.\n\nAdditionally, a luthier may use linseed oil when reconditioning a guitar, mandolin, or other stringed instrument's fret board; lemon-scented mineral oil is commonly used for cleaning, then a light amount of linseed oil (or other drying oil) is applied to protect it from grime that might otherwise result in accelerated deterioration of the wood.\n\nBoiled linseed oil is used as sizing in traditional oil gilding to adhere sheets of gold leaf to a substrate (parchment, canvas, Armenian bole, etc.) It has a much longer working time than water-based size and gives a firm smooth surface which is adhesive enough in the first 12–24 hours after application to cause the gold to attach firmly to the intended surface.\n\nLinseed oil is used to bind wood dust, cork particles, and related materials in the manufacture of the floor covering linoleum. After its invention in 1860 by Frederick Walton, linoleum, or 'lino' for short, was a common form of domestic and industrial floor covering from the 1870s until the 1970s when it was largely replaced by PVC ('vinyl') floor coverings. However, since the 1990s, linoleum is on the rise again, being considered more environmentally sound than PVC. Linoleum has given its name to the printmaking technique linocut, in which a relief design is cut into the smooth surface and then inked and used to print an image. The results are similar to those obtained by woodcut printing.\n\nRaw cold-pressed linseed oil – commonly known as flax seed oil in nutritional contexts – is easily oxidized, and rapidly becomes rancid, with an unpleasant odour, unless refrigerated. Even when kept under cool conditions, it has a shelf life of only a few weeks. Oil with an unpleasant or rancid odor should be discarded. Oxidation of flax seed oil is a major commercial concern, and antioxidants may be added to prevent rancidification. Linseed oil is not generally recommended for use in cooking, yet one study does show that the alpha linolenic acid (ALA) while bound in flaxseed was found to be stable for cooking. When bound to flaxseed ALA can withstand temperatures up to 350 degrees F (176.67 C) for two hours.\n\nFood-grade flaxseed oil is cold-pressed, obtained without solvent extraction, in the absence of oxygen, and marketed as edible flaxseed oil. Fresh, refrigerated and unprocessed, linseed oil is used as a nutritional supplement and is a traditional European ethnic food, highly regarded for its hearty taste. It contains the highest level of the omega-3 fatty acid ALA among vegetable oils. Regular flaxseed oil contains between 52% and 63% ALA (C18:3 \"n\"-3). Plant breeders have developed flaxseed with both higher ALA (70%) and very low ALA content (< 3%). The USFDA granted generally recognized as safe (GRAS) status for high alpha linolenic flaxseed oil.\n\nNutrition information from the Flax Council of Canada.\n\nPer 1 tbsp (14 g)\n\nFlax seed oil contains no significant amounts of protein, carbohydrates or fibre.\n\n\nStand oil is generated by heating linseed oil near 300 °C for a few days in the complete absence of air. Under these conditions, the polyunsaturated fatty esters convert to conjugated dienes, which then undergo Diels-Alder reactions, leading to crosslinking. The product, which is highly viscous, gives highly uniform coatings that \"dry\" to more elastic coatings than linseed oil itself. Soybean oil can be treated similarly, but converts more slowly. On the other hand, tung oil converts very quickly, being complete in minutes at 260 °C. Coatings prepared from stand oils are less prone to yellowing than are coatings derived from the parent oils.\n\nBoiled linseed oil is a combination of raw linseed oil, stand oil (see above), and metallic dryers (catalysts to accelerate drying). In the Medieval era, linseed oil was boiled with lead oxide (litharge) to give a product called boiled linseed oil. The lead oxide forms lead \"soaps\" (lead oxide is alkaline) which promotes hardening (polymerisation) of linseed oil by reaction with atmospheric oxygen. Heating shortens its drying time.\n\nRaw linseed oil is the base oil, unprocessed and without driers or thinners. It is mostly used as a feedstock for making a boiled oil. It does not cure sufficiently well or quickly to be regarded as a drying oil. Raw linseed is sometimes used for oiling cricket bats to increase surface friction for better ball control. It was also used to treat leather flat belt drives to reduce slipping.\n\nRags soaked with linseed oil stored in a pile are considered a fire hazard because they provide a large surface area for oxidation of the oil, which oxidises quickly. The oxidation of linseed oil is an exothermic reaction, which accelerates as the temperature of the rags increases. When heat accumulation exceeds the rate of heat dissipation into the environment, the temperature increases and may eventually become hot enough to make the rags spontaneously combust.\n\nIn 1991, One Meridian Plaza, a high rise in Philadelphia, was severely damaged and three firefighters perished in a fire thought to be caused by linseed oil-soaked rags.\n\n"}
{"id": "6455981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6455981", "title": "List of dams and reservoirs in France", "text": "List of dams and reservoirs in France\n\nThis is a partial list of dams in France.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30942583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30942583", "title": "List of types of killing", "text": "List of types of killing\n\nIn the English language, terms for types of killing often end in the suffix \"-cide\".\n\n\nAll of these are considered types of homicide.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3786865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3786865", "title": "Long-term experiment", "text": "Long-term experiment\n\nA long-term experiment is an experimental procedure that runs through a long period of time, in order to test a hypothesis or observe a phenomenon that takes place at an extremely slow rate.\n\nSeveral agricultural field experiments have run for more than 100 years, but much shorter experiments may qualify as \"long-term\" in other disciplines. An experiment is \"a set of actions and observations\", implying that one or more treatments (fertilizer, subsidized school lunches, etc.) is imposed on the system under study. Long-term experiments therefore contrast with nonexperimental long-term studies in which manipulation of the system studied is impossible (Jupiter's Great Red Spot) or undesirable (field observations of chimpanzee behavior).\n\nThe Oxford Electric Bell has been ringing at Oxford University since 1840, although there is some reason to believe it may be 15 years older.\n\nThe Beverly Clock at the University of Otago has been running since 1864.\n\nThe pitch drop experiment has been running at the University of Queensland since 1927.\n\nThe William James Beal Germination Experiment has been running since 1879. It is the oldest on-going experiment in botany. It is scheduled for completion in 2100.\n\nThe Godwin Plots experiment at the Wicken Fen reserve in Cambridgeshire, England, has been running since the 1920s and explores the differences between areas of vegetation which are never cut, and respectively all four, three or two years and every year.\n\nLong-term experiments test the sustainability of different farming practices, as measured by yield trends over decades. Examples include the Park Grass Experiment at Rothamsted Experimental Station (1843–present), the Morrow Plots (1876–present) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the Magruder Plots (1892–present) at Oklahoma State University, Auburn's Old Rotation (1896–present), and the Haughley Experiment (1939-1982?).\n\nExperiments at Rothamsted showed that \"grain yields can be sustained (and even increased) for almost 150 years in monocultures of wheat and barley given organic or inorganic fertilizer annually\". These results show that practices considered unsustainable by some advocates of sustainable agriculture may preserve \"the ability of a farm to produce perpetually\", at least under some circumstances. But even if crop diversity in space or time (crop rotation) and organic inputs are not always essential to sustainability, there is abundant evidence from Rothamsted and elsewhere that they are often beneficial.\n\nAn experiment in alpine pasture has been ongoing in Switzerland at Schynige Platte from the 1920s looking at the human effect on the alpine environment.\n\nThe Haughley Experiment was noteworthy as a rare example of a long-term experiment in organic farming without external inputs of nutrients. After about 30 years, however, it was decided to start importing manure. There is some disagreement whether a \"decline in relative yields from the organic section\" was due to a depletion of soil nutrients.\n\nVarious short-term experiments have used legumes (in symbiosis with nitrogen-fixing rhizobia) as a nitrogen source, but good short-term yields do not prove the system is sustainable. The problem is that release of nitrogen from soil organic matter can make up any shortfall of nitrogen from legumes for a decade or more. The Old Rotation showed that nitrogen from legumes can balance nitrogen removed in a harvested crop over the long term. A key point is that the nitrogen in the legumes was not removed, as it would be with a soybean crop, but was plowed under as a green manure. In the Old Rotation, the green manure was grown during the winter to supply nitrogen to a summer crop (cotton); this would be less practical in colder climates.\n\nLong-term agricultural experiments that have been started more recently include the Long-Term Research on Agricultural Systems experiments at UC Davis, started in 1993.\n\nAt the UK Centre for Astrobiology within The University of Edinburgh and at the Institute of Aerospace Medicine with the German Aerospace Centre, Charles Cockell and Ralf Möller established the \"500-Year Microbiology Experiment\" that started in July 2014 to study the loss of viability of desiccation-resistant bacteria over long periods. The experiment involves the study of vegetative bacteria (the extreme tolerant cyanobacterium, \"Chroococcidiopsis\" sp.) and spore-forming bacteria (\"Bacillus subtilis\").\n\nThe experiment comprises two oak wooden boxes containing duplicate samples, to be kept at the University of Edinburgh and the Natural History Museum. Every two years for the next 24 years, triplicate samples of both organisms contained within glass ampoules will be opened and the number of viable cells enumerated. The first time point was taken in 2014. Within each box, the experiment is duplicated into a reduced and non-reduced background radiation experiment, with one set of samples being kept in a lead box to cut back background radiation, allowing the impact of radiation in combination with desiccation on viability to be studied over long periods. It was motivated by a desire to understand how microbes survive desiccation in deserts, rocks, permafrost and their potential survival in space. The destruction and pathways of degradation of biomolecules will also be studied. In addition to the core experiment, there are a variety of samples including dried agar plates and endoliths for investigation over long periods.\n\nOne of the wooden boxes was delivered to the Natural History Museum on 27 February 2015, and will be curated within the cyanobacterial collection.\n\nThe experiments of Richard Lenski on evolution of \"E. coli\" have been underway since 1988 for more than 50,000 generations. Experiments with the evolution of maize under artificial selection for oil and protein content represent more years, but far fewer generations (only 65).\n\nThe domesticated silver fox, an ongoing breeding program since 1959 with dramatic results.\n\nThe US National Science Foundation supports a number of long-term ecological experiments, mostly in ecosystems that are less directly affected by humans than most agricultural ecosystems are. See LTER. Within the UK the Ecological Continuity Trust works to promote and secure the future of long-term ecological experiments, maintaining a register of experiments where treatments have been applied for a minimum of six years.\n\nA number of other areas, sometimes called involuntary parks, can be regarded as long time ecological experiments, because they have been abandoned by humans and returned to near-feral condition. These include areas abandoned for political reasons, such as the Korean Demilitarized Zone, or environmental contamination, such as the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant Exclusion Zone.\n\nThe Framingham Heart Study has been running continuously since 1948.\n\nThe Grant Study at the Laboratory of Adult Development in the Department of Psychiatry at Brigham and Women's Hospital, a Harvard Medical School affiliate, is conducting a longitudinal study of human adult development, by following two groups of individuals as they age (268 Harvard graduates and 456 males from inner-city Boston). The study has been ongoing since 1937 and is currently the longest running study of adult life ever conducted.\n\n"}
{"id": "58273477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58273477", "title": "Mam Bunheng", "text": "Mam Bunheng\n\nMam Bunheng (; born 13 April 1949) is a Cambodian politician currently serving as the Minister of Health since 2008. \n"}
{"id": "57839140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57839140", "title": "Medical outsourcing", "text": "Medical outsourcing\n\nMedical outsourcing is a business process used by organizations like hospitals, nursing homes, and healthcare provider practices to obtain physician, nursing, healthcare technician, or other services in a managed services model.\n\nOutsourcing of emergency department physicians, as well as radiologists and anesthesiologists in operating rooms, grew rapidly in the United States in the 2000s due a combination of several economic forces, and medical staffing companies developed niche expertise in various medical specialties. Since 2008 a number of Swedish hospitals have used teleradiology services to outsource their emergency night-time radiology to Australia where daytime staff cover Swedish nighttime patients.\n\nPhysician outsourcing has led to an increase in the number of people who received catastrophically large medical bills due to the outsourced physicians billing at out of network rates. A doctor in Tampa Bay claimed in 2015 that an emergency department she was staffing while working for a division of Envision Healthcare had chronically purchased the services of too few doctors, leading to excessive waiting times there.\n\nSome organizations have used outsourcing through nursing agencies or other medical staffing agencies to deal with the nursing shortage and as a way to save money.\n\nSome small practices have outsourced business functions to management services organizations.\n\nHospitals and medical centers also outsource revenue cycle management functions and real estate management.\n\nPeople needing or wanting healthcare sometimes make decisions to seek care in a different jurisdiction; the decision may be based on lack of quality, availability, or legality in the person's home jurisdiction, or it may be a business decision based on the cost of acquiring the care. This form of medical outsourcing on the consumer side is generally called medical tourism.\n"}
{"id": "44386056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44386056", "title": "Peebles Hospital", "text": "Peebles Hospital\n\nPeebles Hospital is the main public hospital in the British Virgin Islands. The hospital is located in the capital, Road Town, on the island of Tortola. It was founded in 1922 by Major H.W. Peebles, and was originally known as the Cottage Hospital. \n\nIn the 1950s the hospital was renamed after Major Peebles. During the early 1990s it was briefly renamed the H.R. Penn Hospital (after H.R. Penn) before reverting to its current name. In 2015 it was again suggested that it be renamed after Orlando Smith, but that suggestion was not popular, has not been acted upon.\n\nAfter surviving in its original building for nearly 90 years, the Government embarked upon an ambitious attempt to build a new hospital complex immediately behind the existing hospital. The new hospital was originally budgeted at approximately US$10 million, and expected to take just under 2 years to construct. In the event, the hospital cost well over US$100 million to construct, and took over a decade. It also costs a further US$16 million to furnish to become operational. The Government was forced to appeal to private donors to help pay some of the cost of furnishing the new hospital.\n\nAfter numerous false starts, the hospital finally opened on 29 December 2014. Deputy Premier Kendrick Pickering described the new hospital as \"a dream come true\".\n\nThe cost overruns were caused by a combination of bad project management, disputes with construction crews, and ever-changing lists of specifications. Although historically the British Virgin Islands has normally produced a Government budget surplus, but shortly after commencing the new Peebles Hospital projectthe Territory began to run at a deficit (this time period also coincided with the financial crisis of 2007–2008). In 2011 the Territory had its largest ever budget deficit, of US$29 million (approximately 2.6% of GDP), and by 2012 public debt had quadrupled from pre-2007 levels to approximately US$113 million (approximately 10.3% of GDP). Nearly 84% of that public debt was attributable to the new public hospital project. \"The Economist\" argued that deteriorating economic conditions in the British Virgin Islands were caused \"not [by] sagging revenues but public-sector profligacy\", an oblique reference to the disastrous financial mismanagement of the hospital project.\n"}
{"id": "21704078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21704078", "title": "People's Health Movement", "text": "People's Health Movement\n\nPeople's Health Movement (PHM) is a global network of grassroots health activists, civil society organizations and academic institutions particularly from developing countries. PHM currently has bases in more than 70 countries that include both individuals and well-established circles with their own governance structures. It has chapters in South Asia (India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka), Africa (South Africa), Pacific (Australia), South America (Brazil, Ecuador), Central America (El Salvador, Nicaragua, Guatemala), North America (USA, Canada), Europe (Italy, Switzerland, UK, Greece) and several other countries. PHM works towards the revitalisation of Primary Health Care (PHC), as described in the Alma-Ata Declaration of 1978.\n\nVision of PHM:\n\n\"Equity, ecologically-sustainable development and peace are at the heart of our vision of a better world - a world in which a healthy life for all is a reality; a world that respects, appreciates and celebrates all life and diversity; a world that enables the flowering of people's talents and abilities to enrich each other; a world in which people's voices guide the decisions that shape our lives...\"\n\nAt the Alma-Ata Conference in 1978, health ministers from 134 countries, in association with the World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF, set a goal of achieving \"Health for All by the Year 2000\" and identified primary health care as the mean to achieve it. However, in response to continued and deepened health inequalities, on 8 December 2000, 1453 delegates from 92 countries met at Savar, Bangladesh for the First \"People's Health Assembly\" which led to the founding of the People's Health Movement and the drafting of the People's Charter for Health\n\nThe People's Charter for Health echos many of the principles of the Alma Ata Declaration by recognizing health as \"..a social, economic and political issue and above all a fundamental human right\". It names \"inequality, poverty, exploitation, violence and injustice\" as the main drivers of ill-health and calls for \"Health for ALL NOW\" through the involvement of people's organizations in health decision making. PHM attributes the inequity in health care to the \"laissez faire\" economic practices globally and seeks to counter these practices and challenge health policy makers around the world with a Peoples Health Campaign for Health for All-Now!\n\n\"See Also\": Social determinants of health and Social determinants of health in poverty\n\nPHM also works to address the Social determinants of health, including in particular, the growing inequity within and between nations attributed by them to unfair economic structures which lock people into poverty and poor health. PHM helped to put the Social Determinants of Health on the global agenda through continued engagement with the World Health Organization. In response Prof. Fran Baum (Australia), at that time Chair of the PHM Steering Council, was appointed as a commissioner on the WHO Commission on Social Determinants of Health (CSDH). Working with other civil society organizations, PHM helped gather evidence for the WHO final report on the Social Determinants of health released in August 2008. PHM's engagement with the Commission's work also resulted in the publication of a Civil Society Report on Social Determinants of Health. In 2011 PHM was involved in the civil society side meeting during the Conference on Social Determinants of Health, taking place in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe PHM is engaged in a major global campaign to promote the Right to Health which involves coordinated national and international level action. PHM uses a consultative process in countries to involve thousands of people in making a demand for Health for All as described in the Alma Ata Declaration of 1978.\n\nThe first phase of the campaign involves the production of rights-based evaluations of national health policies in countries with PHM circles. The global coordinating group has developed The Assessment of the Right to Health at the Country Level: A People's Health Movement Guide for national PHM circles to use to produce consistent reports using human rights law. The second phase of the campaign focuses on movement building and mobilisation.\n\nThe Peoples Health Movement plays a lead role in co-ordinating the production of the Global Health watch.\n\nIn an increasingly integrated, globalised world with new cross-border threats to health, widening disparities in both health and access to health care, and an unacceptable level of human suffering and premature mortality in developing countries, people across the globe are asking, why is so little progress being made by in promoting health in the world?\n\nThe Global Health Watch is designed to seek answers to this question and also to start articulating solutions. It is an endeavour to propose to the global community an alternate vision of health that is located in a vision of equity, rights and empowerment. It is a collaborative exercise, initiated by the Peoples Health Movement (PHM), Global Equity Gauge Alliance (GEGA) and Medact in 2004. An important outcome of the process is the periodic publication of a document termed the Global Health Watch – a document that is contributed to by researchers, academics and activists from across the globe. Two editions of the document have been published, the first in 2005 as Global Health Watch I and the second in 2008 as Global Health Watch II. The third edition of the GHW is to be published in 2011. The Global Health Watch aims to:\n\nThe document is divided into the following broad sections:\n\n1. An analysis of the global political and economic architecture, within which are located the decisions and choices that impact on health.\n\n2. A view of current issues and debates on health systems across the world, from which it is possible to draw appropriate lessons and propose concrete actions for promoting health.\n\n3. Beyond Health Care – a discussion of different determinants of health\n\n4. The Watching Section – dedicated to the scrutiny of global processes and institutions that are crucially important for health and health care in the globe.\n\n5. A section proposing alternatives and highlighting stories of success and resistance that are exemplars of actual actions that have contributed to better health and health care.\n\nThus, unlike other reports on global health, the Global Health Watch also draws attention to the politics of global health and the policies and actions of key actors. The document is also a call to all health workers to broaden and strengthen the global community of health advocates who are taking action on global ill-health and inequalities, and their underlying political and economic determinants. Not only is it an educational resource for health professionals and activists, it makes clear the need for global health advocates to engage in lobbying many key actors to do better and to do more, whilst resisting those that do harm. It also seeks to act as a catalyst for the development and strengthening of existing campaigns around the world to improve health and equity. \nThe document published as the Global Health Watch is, thus, a culmination of a global process. Typically, each Watch is contributed to directly by over 200 people from across the globe. While the published document is an important product, it is by no means the only outcome to be desired from the entire process. The process of producing the Watch involves the animation of a large number of different processes, in different regions and countries. The process promotes the scrutiny of national and regional policies related to health. It also promotes debate among health academics and activists on key issues that are critical for the promotion of global health.\n\nThe Watch itself has different uses and target audiences. It is a lobbying tool for health movements to work on policy makers in countries and global institutions. It is also a resource book for academics and health activists. It is a tool to mobilise civil society on issues of major concern. Thus the Global Health Watch goes much beyond the production of one document. Further, the launch of the GHW in different parts of the world is an opportunity to mobilise around issues that impact on access to health and health care.\n\nWhile the PHM is responsible for the Secretariat of the Global Health Watch, its co-ordinating group also includes Medact (based in the UK), Health Action International, Medicos (Germany) and Third World Network.\n\nThe International People’s Health University is a short training course for young health activists focussing on the politics of health. The IPHU has organized 20 short courses entitled ‘The Struggle for Health’ of 2-week duration each. The courses have been organized in over 15 countries so far, in 9 languages and attended by about 1000 health activists from more than 60 countries.\n\nPHM activists organise following thematic groups in addition to their local or regional activities based on local needs and issues:\n\nExtractive Industries\n\nAccess to Affordable quality health care and medicines\n\nFood sovereignty\n\nAnti privatisation of Health care\n\nGender and reproductive justice\n\nTrade and health\n\nPHM advocates that Health should not be viewed as a commodity that is traded in the market. The PHM supports the call for taking health related subjects out of the global trade negotiations and from the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and other regional and bilateral trade agreements. The PHM views the agreement on Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights(TRIPS) as iniquitous and against the interest of developing countries and poor patients. It supports legislation in India and other countries which allows generic drug companies to manufacture medications still covered by patents in other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "20598265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20598265", "title": "Phallus", "text": "Phallus\n\nA phallus is a penis (especially when erect), an object that resembles a penis, or a mimetic image of an erect penis.\n\nAny object that symbolically—or, more precisely, iconically—resembles a penis may also be referred to as a phallus; however, such objects are more often referred to as being phallic (as in \"phallic symbol\"). Such symbols often represent fertility and cultural implications that are associated with the male sexual organ, as well as the male orgasm.\n\nThe term is a loanword from Latin \"phallus\", itself borrowed from Greek , which is ultimately a derivation from the Proto-Indo-European root *\"bʰel\"- \"to inflate, swell\". Compare with Old Norse (and modern Icelandic) \"boli\" \"bull\", Old English \"bulluc\" \"bullock\", Greek \"whale\".\n\nThe Hohle phallus, a 28,000-year-old siltstone phallus discovered in the Hohle Fels cave and reassembled in 2005, is among the oldest phallic representations known.\n\nIn traditional Greek mythology, Hermes, god of boundaries and exchange (popularly the \"messenger\" god) is considered to be a phallic deity by association with representations of him on herms (pillars) featuring a phallus. There is no scholarly consensus on this depiction and it would be speculation to consider Hermes a type of fertility god. Pan, son of Hermes, was often depicted as having an exaggerated erect phallus.\n\nPriapus is a Greek god of fertility whose symbol was an exaggerated phallus. The son of Aphrodite and either Dionysus or Adonis, according to different forms of the original myth, he is the protector of livestock, fruit plants, gardens, and male genitalia. His name is the origin of the medical term priapism.\n\nThe city of Tyrnavos in Greece holds an annual Phallus festival, a traditional phallophoric event on the first days of Lent.\n\nThe phallus was ubiquitous in ancient Roman culture, particularly in the form of the \"fascinum\", a phallic charm. The ruins of Pompeii produced bronze wind chimes \"(tintinnabula)\" that featured the phallus, often in multiples, to ward off the evil eye and other malevolent influences. Statues of Priapus similarly guarded gardens. Roman boys wore the \"bulla\", an amulet that contained a phallic charm, until they formally came of age. According to Augustine of Hippo, the cult of Father Liber, who presided over the citizen's entry into political and sexual manhood, involved a phallus. The phallic deity Mutunus Tutunus promoted marital sex. A sacred phallus was among the objects considered vital to the security of the Roman state which were in the keeping of the Vestal Virgins. Sexuality in ancient Rome has sometimes been characterized as \"phallocentric\".\n\nThe lingam, an abstract or aniconic representation of the Hindu deity Shiva, originates as a phallic symbol.\n\nThe phallus played a role in the cult of Osiris in ancient Egyptian religion. When Osiris' body was cut in 14 pieces, Set scattered them all over Egypt and his wife Isis retrieved all of them except one, his penis, which was swallowed by a fish; see the Legend of Osiris and Isis. Isis made him a wooden replacement.\n\nThe phallus was a symbol of fertility, and the god Min was often depicted as ithyphallic, that is, with an erect penis.\nAccording to the Indonesian chronicles of the Babad Tanah Jawi, Prince Puger gained the kingly power from God, by ingesting sperm from the phallus of the already-dead Sultan Amangkurat II of Mataram.\n\nThe phallus is commonly depicted in its paintings.\n\n\nThe Mara Kannon Shrine (麻羅観音) in Nagato, Yamaguchi prefecture is one of many fertility shrines in Japan that still exist today. Also present in festivals such as the Danjiri Matsuri (だんじり祭) in Kishiwada, Osaka prefecture, the Kanamara Matsuri, in Kawasaki, and the Hōnen Matsuri (豊年祭 Harvest Festival), in Komaki (小牧市 Komaki-shi), Aichi Prefecture (愛知県 Aichi-ken), though historically phallus adoration was more widespread.\n\n\"Kuker\" is a divinity personifying fecundity, sometimes in Bulgaria and Serbia it is a plural divinity. In Bulgaria, a ritual spectacle of spring (a sort of carnival performed by Kukeri) takes place after a scenario of folk theatre, in which Kuker's role is interpreted by a man attired in a sheep- or goat-pelt, wearing a horned mask and girded with a large wooden phallus. During the ritual, various physiological acts are interpreted, including the sexual act, as a symbol of the god's sacred marriage, while the symbolical wife, appearing pregnant, mimes the pains of giving birth. This ritual inaugurates the labours of the fields (ploughing, sowing) and is carried out with the participation of numerous allegorical personages, among which is the Emperor and his entourage.\n\nIn Switzerland, the heraldic bears in a coat of arms had to be painted with bright red penises, otherwise they would have been mocked as being she-bears. In 1579, a calendar printed in St. Gallen omitted the genitals from the heraldic bear of Appenzell, nearly leading to war between the two cantons.\n\nFigures of Kokopelli and Itzamna (as the Mayan tonsured maize god) in Pre-Columbian America often include phallic content. Additionally, over forty large monolithic sculptures (\"Xkeptunich\") have been documented from Terminal Classic Maya sites with the majority of examples occurring in the Puuc region of Yucatán (Amrhein 2001). Uxmal has the largest collection with eleven sculptures now housed under a protective roof on site. The largest sculpture was recorded at Almuchil measuring more than 320 cm high with a diameter at the base of the shaft measuring 44 cm.\n\nSt. Priapus Church (French: \"Église S. Priape\") is a North American new religion that centres on the worship of the phallus. Founded in the 1980s in Montreal, Quebec, by D. F. Cassidy, it has a following mainly among homosexual men in Canada and the United States. Semen is also treated with reverence and its consumption is an act of worship. Semen is esteemed as sacred because of its divine life-giving power.\n\nThe symbolic version of the phallus, a phallic symbol is meant to represent male generative powers. According to Sigmund Freud's theory of psychoanalysis, while males possess a penis, no one can possess the symbolic phallus. Jacques Lacan's \"Ecrits: A Selection\" includes an essay titled \"The Signification of the Phallus\" in which sexual differentiation is represented in terms of the difference between \"being\" and \"having\" the phallus, which for Lacan is the transcendent signifier of desire. Men are positioned as men insofar as they wish to \"have\" the phallus. Women, on the other hand, wish to \"be\" the phallus. This difference between having and being explains some tragicomic aspects of sexual life. Once a woman becomes, in the realm of the signifier, the phallus the man wants, he ceases to want it, because one cannot desire what one has, and the man may be drawn to other women. Similarly, though, for the woman, the gift of the phallus deprives the man of what he has, and thereby diminishes her desire. \n\nIn \"Gender Trouble\", Judith Butler explores Freud's and Lacan's discussions of the symbolic phallus by pointing out the connection between the phallus and the penis. She writes, \"The law requires conformity to its own notion of 'nature'. It gains its legitimacy through the binary and asymmetrical naturalization of bodies in which the phallus, though clearly not identical to the penis, deploys the penis as its naturalized instrument and sign\". In \"Bodies that Matter\", she further explores the possibilities for the phallus in her discussion of \"The Lesbian Phallus\". If, as she notes, Freud enumerates a set of analogies and substitutions that rhetorically affirm the fundamental transferability of the phallus from the penis elsewhere, then any number of other things might come to stand in for the phallus.\n\nThe phallus is often used to advertise pornography, as well as the sale of contraception. It has often been used in provocative practical jokes and has been the central focus of adult-audience performances.\n\nThe phallus had a new set of art interpretations in the 20th century with the rise of Sigmund Freud, the founder of modern psychoanalysis of psychology. One example is \"Princess X\" by the Romanian modernist sculptor Constantin Brâncuși. He created a scandal in the Salon in 1919 when he represented or caricatured Princess Marie Bonaparte as a large gleaming bronze phallus. This phallus likely symbolizes Bonaparte's obsession with the penis and her lifelong quest to achieve vaginal orgasm.\n\nSee also the Most Phallic Building contest for examples of phallic architecture.\n"}
{"id": "51307156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51307156", "title": "Philippine Tobacco Institute", "text": "Philippine Tobacco Institute\n\nThe Philippine Tobacco Institute, Inc. is private organization incorporated under Philippine law. It represents, expresses and effects the opinions of the tobacco industry in the Philippines.\n\nThe Philippine Tobacco Institute has been curbing the Philippine government's efforts to implement tobacco regulation. Since 2007, eleven legal cases have been filed by the tobacco industry against proposed government oversight; the courts have ruled in the industry's favor in all of these cases.\n\nIn 2009, the Philippine Tobacco Institute blocked the FDA's intent to gain control over the quality control of tobacco products in the country.\n\nThe Philippine Tobacco Institute has expressed its opinion on tobacco control when it submitted a position paper to the World Health Organization during the proposal for the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in 2000.\n\nThe PTI has also lobbied for the Bureau of Internal Revenue to reject a tax stamp system for cigarette packs and successfully reduced the size of graphic warning labels on cigarette packages.\n\nIn August 2015, the Southeast Asia Tobacco Control Alliance (SEATCA) to call for its removal from the regulating body.\n\nIn May 2017, the Philippine Tobacco Institute approved the president's move to ban smoking in public places, all the while reminding the press about designated smoking areas.\n\nThe Philippine Tobacco Institute is a trade association composed of leading tobacco companies in the Philippines. Collectively, its members form \"the strongest tobacco lobby in Asia\". Some of its members over the years have included:\n\n\nA few of its member companies have since merged, such as Philip Morris Philippines Manufacturing and Fortune Tobacco Corporation, which formed PMFTC in 2010.\n\nThe PTI also sits as a member of the Inter-Agency Committee-Tobacco (IAC-T), an agency with exclusive authority to regulate the packaging, use, sale, distribution, and advertisement of tobacco products.\n\n"}
{"id": "336895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336895", "title": "Plan Colombia", "text": "Plan Colombia\n\nPlan Colombia was the name of a United States foreign aid, military and diplomatic initiative aimed at combating Colombian drug cartels and left-wing insurgent groups in Colombia. The plan was originally conceived in 1999 by the administrations of Colombian President Andrés Pastrana and US President Bill Clinton, and signed into law by the U.S in 2000. The official objectives of Plan Colombia were to end the Colombian armed conflict by increasing funding and training of Colombian military and para-military forces and creating an anti-cocaine strategy to eradicate coca cultivation, though critics claim this largely served as a cover to increase U.S. military presence and protect U.S. corporate interests in the region. Plan Colombia in its initial form existed until 2015, with the United States and the Colombian government seeking a new strategy as a result of the peace talks between the Colombian government and the FARC. The new program is called \"Peace Colombia\" (Paz Colombia) and seeks to provide Colombia with aid after the implementation of the Peace Agreement in 2017 with the FARC. However, there remain several U.S. military bases and close to 1,000 U.S. Marines in Colombia who have yet to withdraw from the country in accordance with the new peace agreement, and show little indication of doing so.\n\nPolicymakers in both countries consider Plan Colombia to be a foreign policy success for the U.S. The Colombian government credits Plan Colombia with transforming the country given Colombia's fragility at the turn of the 21st century.\n\nThe original version of Plan Colombia was officially unveiled by President Andrés Pastrana in 1999. Pastrana had first proposed the idea of a possible \"Marshall Plan for Colombia\" during a speech at Bogotá's Tequendama Hotel on June 8, 1998, nearly a week after the first round of that year's presidential elections. Pastrana argued that:\n\n[Drug crops are] a social problem whose solution must pass through the solution to the armed conflict...Developed countries should help us to implement some sort of 'Marshall Plan' for Colombia, which will allow us to develop great investments in the social field, in order to offer our peasants different alternatives to the illicit crops.\n\nAfter Pastrana was inaugurated, one of the names given to the initiative at this early stage was \"Plan for Colombia's Peace\", which President Pastrana defined as \"a set of alternative development projects which will channel the shared efforts of multilateral organizations and [foreign] governments towards Colombian society\". Pastrana's Plan Colombia, as originally presented, did not focus on drug trafficking, military aid, or fumigation, but instead emphasized the manual eradication of drug crops as a better alternative. According to author Doug Stokes, one of the earlier versions of the plan called for an estimated 55 per cent military aid and 45 percent developmental aid.\n\nDuring an August 3, 1998 meeting, President Pastrana and U.S. President Bill Clinton discussed the possibility of \"securing an increase in U.S. aid for counternarcotics projects, sustainable economic development, the protection of human rights, humanitarian aid, stimulating private investment, and joining other donors and international financial institutions to promote Colombia's economic growth\". Diplomatic contacts regarding this subject continued during the rest of the year and into 1999.\n\nFor President Pastrana, it became necessary to create an official document that specifically \"served to convene important U.S. aid, as well as that of other countries and international organizations\" by adequately addressing US concerns. The Colombian government also considered that it had to patch up a bilateral relationship that had heavily deteriorated during the previous administration of President Ernesto Samper (1994–1998). According to Pastrana, Under Secretary of State Thomas R. Pickering eventually suggested that, initially, the U.S. could be able to commit to providing aid over a three-year period, as opposed to continuing with separate yearly packages.\n\nAs a result of these contacts, US input was extensive, and meant that Plan Colombia's first formal draft was originally written in English, not Spanish, and a Spanish version was not available until \"months after a revised English version was already in place\".\nCritics and observers have referred to the differences between the earliest versions of Plan Colombia and later drafts. Originally, the focus was on achieving peace and ending violence, within the context of the ongoing peace talks that Pastrana's government was then holding with the FARC guerrillas, following the principle that the country's violence had \"deep roots in the economic exclusion and...inequality and poverty\".\n\nThe final version of Plan Colombia was seen as considerably different, since its main focuses would deal with drug trafficking and strengthening the military. When this final version was debated on the U.S. Senate floor, Joseph Biden spoke as a leading advocate of the more hardline strategy.\n\nAmbassador Robert White stated:\n\nIf you read the original Plan Colombia, not the one that was written in Washington but the original Plan Colombia, there's no mention of military drives against the FARC rebels. Quite the contrary. (President Pastrana) says the FARC is part of the history of Colombia and a historical phenomenon, he says, and they must be treated as Colombians...[Colombians] come and ask for bread and you (America) give them stones.\n\nIn the final U.S. aid package, 78.12 percent of the funds for 2000 went to the Colombian military and police for counternarcotics and military operations. \"(See graph, below)\"\n\nPresident Pastrana admitted that most of the resulting US aid to Colombia was overwhelmingly focused on the military and on counternarcotics (68%), but argued that this was only some 17% of the total amount of estimated Plan Colombia aid. The rest, focusing mostly on social development, would be provided by international organizations, Europe, Japan, Canada, Latin America, and Colombia itself. In light of this, Pastrana considered that the Plan had been unfairly labeled as \"militarist\" by national and international critics that focused only on the US contribution.\n\nThis original plan called for a budget of US$7.5 billion, with 51% dedicated to institutional and social development, 32% for fighting the drug trade, 16% for economic and social revitalization, and 0.8% to support the then on-going effort to negotiate a political solution to the state's conflict with insurgent guerrilla groups. Pastrana initially pledged US$4.864 billion of Colombian resources (65% of the total) and called on the international community to provide the remaining US$2.636 billion (35%). Most of this funding was earmarked for training and equipping new Colombian army counternarcotics battalions, providing them with helicopters, transport and intelligence assistance, and supplies for coca eradication.\n\nIn 2000, the Clinton administration in the United States supported the initiative by committing $1.3 billion in foreign aid and up to five hundred military personnel to train local forces. An additional three hundred civilian personnel were allowed to assist in the eradication of coca. This aid was an addition to US$330 million of previously approved US aid to Colombia. US$818 million was earmarked for 2000, with US$256 million for 2001. These appropriations for the plan made Colombia the third largest recipient of foreign aid from the United States at the time, behind only Israel and Egypt. Under President George W. Bush, aid to Colombia earmarked for military aid vs. humanitarian aid became more balanced. Ultimately, the U.S. would provide approximately US$10 billion under Plan Colombia through 2015. \n\nColombia sought additional support from the European Union and other countries, with the intention of financing the mostly social component of the original plan. Some would-be donors were reluctant to cooperate, as they considered that the US-approved aid represented an undue military slant, and additionally lacked the will to spend such amounts of money for what they considered an uncertain initiative.\n\nInitially, some of these countries donated approximately US $128.6 million (in one year), which was 2.3% of the resulting total. Larger amounts, in some instances up to several hundred million dollars, were also donated to Colombia and continued to be provided either directly or through loans and access to credit lines, but technically fell outside the framework of Plan Colombia. \"European countries provide economic and social development funds but do not consider them to be in support of Plan Colombia.\" In any case, the sums raised fell well short of what was originally called for. In addition, Colombia's eventual contribution was less than planned due in part to a 1999–2001 economic crisis.\n\nIn the United States, Plan Colombia is seen as part of the \"War on Drugs\", which was started under President Nixon in 1971. Plan Colombia has numerous supporters in the United States Congress. Congressional supporters assert that over 1,300 square kilometers of mature coca were sprayed and eradicated in Colombia in 2003, which would have prevented the production of over 500 metric tons of cocaine, stating that it eliminated upward of $100 million of the illicit income that supports drug dealers and different illegal organizations considered terrorist in Colombia, the U.S. and the European Union.\n\nAccording to a 2006 U.S. congressional report on U.S. enterprises that had signed contracts to carry out anti-narcotics activities as part of Plan Colombia, DynCorp, the largest private company involved, was among those contracted by the State Department, while others signed contracts with the Defense Department.\n\nAs enacted in 2000, Plan Colombia called for two U.S. supported actions in Colombia. The first was to cause the “eradication, interdiction, and alternative development” of coca fields which are used to produce cocaine—which in turn provided most of the funding for the FARC. And second, to offer social and economic assistance to the rural areas that the FARC have controlled for half a century.\n\nA third more security oriented countermeasure—to provide enhanced intelligence, training and supplies to Colombian armed forces against the FARC—took greater importance post 9/11 under the Andean Regional Initiative, as the threat of global terrorism received increased attention. The Andean Regional Initiative initially appropriated $676 million to South American countries, with approximately $380 million targeted at Colombia. The 2001 initiative reduced the limitations on the numbers and the activities of civilian contractors, allowing them to carry and use military weapons which, according to the U.S. government, would be necessary to ensure the safety of personnel and equipment during spray missions. The United States Congress rejected amendments to the Andean initiative that would have redirected some of the money to demand reduction programs in the United States, primarily through funding of drug treatment services. Some critics have opposed the rejection of these modifications, claiming that the drug problem and its multiple repercussions would be structurally addressed by curbing the demand, and not the production, of illicit drugs, since drug crops can always be regrown and transplanted elsewhere, inside or outside Colombia and its neighboring countries, as long as there is a commercially viable market.\n\nIn 2004, the United States appropriated approximately $727 million for the Andean Counterdrug Initiative, $463 million of which was targeted at Colombia.\n\nIn October 2004, the compromise version of two U.S. House–Senate bills was approved, increasing the number of U.S. military advisors that operate in the country as part of Plan Colombia to 800 (from 400) and that of private contractors to 600 (from 400).\n\nIn a November 22, 2004 visit to Cartagena, President Bush stood by Colombian president Uribe's security policies and declared his support for continuing to provide Plan Colombia aid in the future. Bush claimed the initiative enjoys \"wide bipartisan support\" in the US and in the coming year he would ask Congress to renew its support.\n\nTaken together then, the three countermeasures represent what President George W. Bush referred to as his “three-legged stool” strategy of “waging a global war on terror, supporting democracy and reducing the flow of illicit drugs into the United States.” Although Plan Colombia includes components which address social aid and institutional reform, the initiative has come to be regarded by its critics as fundamentally a program of counternarcotics and military aid for the Colombian government.\n\nThe US Defense Department funded a two-year study which found that the use of the armed forces to interdict drugs coming into the United States would have minimal or no effect on cocaine traffic and might, in fact, raise the profits of cocaine cartels and manufacturers. The 175-page study, \"Sealing the Borders: The Effects of Increased Military Participation in Drug Interdiction,\" was prepared by seven economists, mathematicians and researchers at the National Defense Research Institute, a branch of the RAND Corporation and released in 1988. The study noted that seven previous studies in the past nine years, including ones by the Center or Naval Research and the Office of Technology Assessment, had come to similar conclusions. Interdiction efforts, using current armed forces resources, would have almost no effect on cocaine importation into the United States, the report concluded.\n\nDuring the early to mid-1990s, the Clinton administration ordered and funded a major cocaine policy study again by RAND. The Rand Drug Policy Research Center study concluded that $3 billion should be switched from federal and local law enforcement to treatment. The report said that treatment is the cheapest way to cut drug use. President Clinton's Director of National Drug Control Policy rejected slashing law enforcement spending.\n\nPlan Colombia itself didn't exist at the time of the second RAND study, but the U.S. aid package has been criticized as a manifestation of the predominant law enforcement approach to the drug trade as a whole.\n\nCritics of Plan Colombia, such as authors Doug Stokes and Francisco Ramirez Cuellar, argue that the main intent of the program is not drug eradication but to fight leftist guerrillas. They argue that these Colombian peasants are also a target because they are calling for social reform and hindering international plans to exploit Colombia's valuable resources, including oil and other natural resources. As of 2004, Colombia is the fifteenth largest supplier of oil to the United States and could potentially rise in that ranking if petroleum extraction could be conducted in a more secure environment. From 1986 to 1997 there were nearly of crude oil spilled in pipeline attacks. Damage and lost revenue were estimated at $1.5 billion, while the oil spills seriously damaged the ecology.\n\nWhile the assistance is defined as counternarcotics assistance, critics such as filmmaker Gerard Ungeman argues it will be used primarily against the FARC. Supporters of the Plan such as the U.S. embassy in Bogotá and U.S. Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Marc Grossman argue that the distinction between guerrillas, paramilitaries and drug dealers may have increasingly become irrelevant, seeing as they could be considered as part of the same productive chain. As a result, counternarcotics assistance and equipment should also be available for use against any of these irregular armed groups when necessary.\n\nIn June 2000, Amnesty International issued a press release in which it criticized the implemented Plan Colombia initiative:\n\nPlan Colombia is based on a drug-focused analysis of the roots of the conflict and the human rights crisis which completely ignores the Colombian state's own historical and current responsibility. It also ignores deep-rooted causes of the conflict and the human rights crisis. The Plan proposes a principally military strategy (in the US component of Plan Colombia) to tackle illicit drug cultivation and trafficking through substantial military assistance to the Colombian armed forces and police. Social development and humanitarian assistance programs included in the Plan cannot disguise its essentially military character. Furthermore, it is apparent that Plan Colombia is not the result of a genuine process of consultation either with the national and international non-governmental organizations which are expected to implement the projects nor with the beneficiaries of the humanitarian, human rights or social development projects. As a consequence, the human rights component of Plan Colombia is seriously flawed. \n\nDuring the late 1990s, Colombia was the leading recipient of US military aid in the Western Hemisphere, and due to its continuing internal conflict has the worst human rights record, with the majority of atrocities attributed (from most directly responsible to least directly responsible) to paramilitary forces, insurgent guerrilla groups and elements within the police and armed forces.\n\nA United Nations study reported that elements within the Colombian security forces, which have been strengthened due to Plan Colombia and U.S. aid, do continue to maintain intimate relationships with right-wing death squads, help organize paramilitary forces, and either participate in abuses and massacres directly or, as it is usually argued to be more often the case, deliberately fail to take action to prevent them. One of the larger examples of this behavior was the 2008 False Positives Scandal, in which the Colombian military murdered approximately 1,400 innocent civilians in order to make false claims that these cadavers were Farc soldiers.\n\nCritics of the Plan and of other initiatives to aid Colombian armed forces point to these continuing accusations of serious abuse, and argue that the Colombian state and military should sever any persisting relationship with these illegal forces and need to prosecute past offenses by paramilitary forces or its own personnel. Supporters of the Plan assert that the number and scale of abuses directly attributable to the government's forces have been slowly but increasingly reduced.\n\nSome paramilitary commanders openly expressed their support for Plan Colombia. In May 2000, paramilitary commander \"Yair\" from the Putumayo Southern Bloc, himself a former Colombian special forces sergeant, said that the AUC supported the plan and he offered to assist U.S.-trained counternarcotics battalions in their operations against the FARC in the coca-growing Putumayo department. Paramilitaries and FARC fought it out in the region one month before a Plan Colombia mandated military offensive began later that year. AUC fighters would have passed through checkpoints manned by the army's 24th Brigade in the area during the fighting.\n\nAccording to Grace Livingstone, more Colombian School of the Americas (SOA) graduates have been implicated in human rights abuses than SOA graduates from any other country. All of the commanders of the brigades highlighted in the 2001 Human Rights Watch report were graduates of the SOA, including the III brigade in Valle del Cauca, where the 2001 Alto Naya Massacre occurred. US-trained officers have been accused of being directly or indirectly involved in many atrocities during the 1990s, including the Massacre of Trujillo and the 1997 Mapiripán Massacre.\n\nIn addition, Livingstone also argues that the Colombian paramilitaries employ counter insurgency methods that US military schools and manuals have been teaching Latin American officers in Colombia and in the region at large since the 1960s, and that these manuals teach students to target civilian supporters of the guerrillas, because without such support the guerrillas cannot survive.\n\nThe Pastrana administration replied to critics by stating that it had publicly denounced military-paramilitary links, as well as increased efforts against paramilitaries and acted against questionable military personnel. President Pastrana argues that he implemented new training courses on human rights and on international law for military and police officers, as well as new reforms to limit the jurisdiction of military courts in cases of grave human rights abuses such as torture, genocide or forced disappearances.\n\nPastrana claims that some 1300 paramilitaries were killed, captured or surrendered during his term, and that hundreds of members of the armed forces, including up to a hundred officers, were dismissed due to the existence of what it considered as sufficient allegations of involvement in abuses or suspected paramilitary activities, in use of a new presidential discretional faculty. These would include some 388 discharges in 2000 and a further 70 in 2001. Human Rights Watch recognized these events, but questioned the fact that the reasons for such discharges were not always made clear nor followed by formal prosecutions, and claimed that Pastrana's administration cut funds for the Attorney General's Human Rights Unit.\n\nIn 1997 the US Congress approved an Amendment to the Foreign Operations Appropriations Act which banned the US from giving anti-narcotics aid to any foreign military unit whose members have violated human rights. The Amendment was called the \"Leahy Provision\" or \"Leahy Law\" (named after Senator Patrick Leahy who proposed it). Partially due to this measure and the reasoning behind it, anti-narcotics aid was initially only provided to Police units, and not to the military during much of the 1990s.\n\nAccording to author Grace Livingstone and other critics, the problem is there have been very few military units free of members that have not been implicated in any kind of human rights abuses at all, so they consider that the policy has been usually ignored, downplayed or occasionally implemented in a patchy way. In 2000, Human Rights Watch, together with several Colombian human rights investigators, published a study in which it concluded that half of Colombia's eighteen brigade-level army units had extensive links to paramilitaries at the time, citing numerous cases which directly or indirectly implicated army personnel.\n\nThe State Department certified that Colombia would have complied with one of the human rights conditions (Sec. 3201) attached to Plan Colombia aid, due to President Pastrana's directing \"in writing that Colombian Armed Forces personnel who are credibly alleged to have committed gross violations of human rights will be brought to justice in Colombia's civilian courts...\". In August 2000 President Clinton used his presidential waiver to override the remaining human rights conditions, on the grounds that it was necessary for the interests of U.S. national security. Livingstone argues that if the US government funds military units guilty of human rights abuses, it is acting illegally.\n\nAerial eradication (often incorrectly called \"fumigation\") began as a part of Plan Colombia backed by the United States government as a strategy to eliminate drug crops in Colombia in the 1980s. By the mid-1990s, drug cultivation had increased and Colombia supplied as much as 90% of the world’s cocaine, which caused aerial eradication efforts to become more intensified. United States policymakers put the intensive use of the herbicide Roundup Ultra made by Monsanto for massive aerial spraying of illicit crops in Colombia as the central strategy for Plan Colombia.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2003, the aerial eradication program sprayed over 380,000 hectares of coca, which is equivalent to more than 8% of Colombia's arable land. The spraying was carried out by a police unit known as the Colombian Antinarcotics Directorate (DIRAN) and by 2003, twenty-four aircraft were conducting eradication. The aircraft were also accompanied by armed helicopters to protect them from potential ground fire that could come from the FARC or other armed groups active in the drug cultivation areas. \n\nThe forced eradication of illicit crops with aerial spraying has been questioned for failing to reduce supply as well as having a negative social impact and causing environmental damage. According to the Transnational Institute, \"the fact that an increasing crop area is being eradicated – much more was sprayed in 2003 than in 2002 – should be interpreted not as a sign of the policy's success, but as a sign of its failure, because it indicates that more and more land is being planted in these crops.\"\n\nAccording to Joshua Davis of Wired.com, the area has seen the emergence of a Roundup resistant variety of the coca plant known as \"Boliviana Negra\" that is not talked about because it might \"put an end to American aid money.\"\n\nThe scandal behind the aerial eradication strategy in Colombia raises many issues. One point is the most important of whether or not it has been successful. In 2004, according to Robert Charles, assistant secretary of state for the INL, aerial eradication efforts were getting close to the point that continued suppression of the drug crops would convince growers that continued cultivation will be futile. However, statistics show that sharp reductions in growing caused by fumigation in 2002–2003 did not reduce cultivation levels back to their numbers in 1998, and on top of that, Colombia still remains the largest coca-growing country in the world. Another reason to remain skeptical of the success of this program is the \"balloon effect\". This means that when aerial eradication halted drug cultivation in one area, it would simply appear in another area, which would in turn reverse the intended effects of fumigation. As a result, coca farming has spread throughout Colombia, and the Colombian government even reported that between 1999 and 2002, the number of provinces where coca was being grown rose from twelve to twenty-two. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) also presented research on coca cultivation in Colombia which showed this crop's high degree of mobility and its increases of cultivation in ten provinces. For example, in the province Guaviare, coca cultivation moved south toward Caquetá and Putumayo as a result of aerial eradication in the 1990s, and thus cultivation rose 55 percent.\n\nAnother issue raised by aerial eradication is rights violations as aerial eradication destroys one of the few economic options for a number of peasants and causes forced displacement because peasants have to find a new place to grow their crops.\n\nOne notable aspect in discussion of the aerial spraying of illicit crops in Colombia is the size of the areas sprayed. Forty thousand hectares are said to have been sprayed in a single department, Putumayo. Nationwide in 2003, chemicals were sprayed on 139,000 hectares, 17,000 people were displaced as a result of aerial eradication, and their income and food supply were threatened. Even in a general standpoint, Colombia's Council for Human Rights and Displacement showed that in 2001 and 2002, aerial eradication left 75,000 people nationwide displaced. It is not easy to picture such a broad area covered by grey clouds of glyphosate sprayed from airplanes, or the desolate image of destruction left behind. One need not be a harsh critic of aerial spraying to admit that spraying such an extensive area with this chemical must have some impact. Those are the effects that the residents, fauna and flora of the extensive affected regions of Colombia have been suffering for years.\n\nIn addition, spraying is shown to have effects on health. Many residents of spray zones have shown to have a variety of skin, respiratory, and other ailments. The scandal regarding health violations arises because the U.S. State department constantly downplays these concerns. They claim instead that illness arises as a result of the herbicides they use for their crop cultivation. Also, the EPA provided the State Department with the assessments of health and environment impacts of aerial eradication, but these assessments were conducted without any information specific to the local environment of Colombia. The State Department does not even submit enough information to the EPA on how spraying is actually carried out. In terms of environmental effects, because of the \"balloon effect\", farmers end up moving their crop cultivation into forests and national parks. As a result, there has been deforestation, pollution of soil and waterways, and even increased risk of extinction for Colombian bird and plant species.\nAside from these specific issues, there are also others raised about the costs of fumigation and if it is using too much money.\n\nThis intensive program to eradicate crops with aerial spraying is the backbone of the bilateral anti-drug partnership between Colombia and United States.\n\nIn 1999, the U.S. Congress added a provision to its Plan Colombia aid package that called for the employment of mycoherbicides against coca and opium crops. The potential use of \"Fusarium oxysporum\" as part of these efforts was questioned and opposed by environmentalists. Colombia rejected the proposal and the Clinton administration waived the provision in light of continued criticism.\n\nCompared to the counternarcotics measures, the military campaign waged against the FARC and other paramilitaries appears to have achieved more success. Military aid packages that were both part of, and separate from, Plan Colombia have successfully driven the FARC out of most of their former territory and targeted the leaders of the insurgency, killing over two dozen of them. The U.S. has largely remained in a non-combatant role, providing real time intelligence, training, and military equipment. \n\nAs the Colombian military (with U.S. support) continues to crack down on the FARC during the mid-2000s, the insurgency was sapped of much of their military might. Traditionally, the FARC has operated with a centralized, hierarchical command structure and a governing body called the Secretariat. With the deaths in 2008 of main leader Manuel Marulanda and second-in-command Raúl Reyes, followed by the killing of top tacticians Mono Jojoy and Alfonso Cano in 2010 and 2011, the group became increasingly disjointed. In 2001, for example, the FARC had over 18,000 fighters, but that figure fell to under 7,000 by 2014 mainly as a result of fighters abandoning the cause. In terms of land, the FARC once controlled a DMZ the size of Switzerland in 1999 and had encircled the capital of Bogota, yet they were subsequently been pushed back to the southern highlands of the country and into the surrounding borders of Ecuador and Bolivia. As a result, FARC attacks in Colombia have declined significantly. Bombings on Occidental Petroleum's Caño Limón pipeline—a frequent target of the FARC—for instance, reached 178 separate incidents in 2001 compared to just 57 in 2007.\n\nEven as the FARC have lost power and subsequently signed a peace agreement, there is concern about what will happen to the remnants of the group. One fear is that autonomous fronts will forge their own relationships with the cartels and continue the drug trade in a more dispersed manner.\n\nAs of 2008 Plan Colombia's U.S.-funded military programs comprised:\n\n\nAs of 2008, the U.S. has provided nearly $1.3 billion to Colombia through Plan Colombia's nonmilitary aid programs:\n\nOn April 14, 2006, the U.S. Drug Czar's office announced that its Colombian coca cultivation estimate for 2005 was significantly greater than that of any year since 2002. The press release from the U.S. Office of National Drug Control Policy stated that \"coca cultivation declined by 8 percent, from 114,100 to 105,400 hectares, when those areas surveyed by the US government in 2004 were compared with the same areas in 2005\". However, \"the survey also found 144,000 hectares of coca under cultivation in 2005 in a search area that was 81 percent larger than that used in 2004...newly imaged areas show about 39,000 additional hectares of coca. Because these areas were not previously surveyed, it is impossible to determine for how long they have been under coca cultivation.\"\n\nCritics of Plan Colombia and of ongoing fumigation programs considered this new information as a sign of the failure of current U.S. drug policy. The Center for International Policy stated that \"even if we accept the U.S. government's argument that the high 2005 estimate owes to measurement in new areas, it is impossible to claim that Plan Colombia has brought a 50 percent reduction in coca-growing in six years...Either Colombia has returned to [the 2002] level of cultivation, or the 'reductions' reported in 2002 and 2003 were false due to poor measurement.\"\n\nOn June 20, 2006, the United Nations (UN) Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) presented its own survey on Andean coca cultivation, reporting a smaller increase of about 8% and confirming a rising trend shown by the earlier U.S. findings. UN surveys employ a different methodology and are part of the ongoing \"Illicit Crop Monitoring Program\" (ICMP) and its \"Integrated Illicit Crop Monitoring System\" (SIMCI) project. The UNODC press release stated that during 2005 the \"area under coca cultivation in Colombia rose by 6,000 hectares to 86,000 after four consecutive years of decline despite the continued efforts of the Government to eradicate coca crops\". This represents a small increase above the lowest figure recorded by UNODC's surveys, which was 80,000 hectares in 2004. For UNODC, current cultivation remained \"still well below the peak of 163,300 hectares recorded in 2000\", as \"significant reductions [...] have been made in the past five years and overall figures remain nearly a third below their peak of 2000\".\n\nUNODC concluded that \"substantial international assistance\" is needed by Colombia and the other Andean countries \"so they can provide poor coca farmers with sustainable alternative livelihoods\" and that \"aid efforts need to be multiplied at least tenfold in order to reach all impoverished farmers who need support\".\n\nThe results of Plan Colombia have been mixed. From the perspective of the U.S. and Colombian governments, the results of Plan Colombia have been positive. U.S. government statistics show that a significant reduction in leftover coca (total cultivation minus eradicated coca) has been observed from peak 2001 levels of 1,698 square kilometers to an estimated 1,140 square kilometers in 2004. It is said that a record high aerial herbicide fumigation campaign of 1,366 square kilometers in 2004 has reduced the total area of surviving coca, even as newer areas are planted.\nDespite this, effective reductions may appear to have reached their limits as in 2004, despite a record high aerial herbicide fumigation campaign of 1,366 square kilometers, the total area of surviving coca has remained constant, as an estimated 1,139 square kilometers in 2003 were followed by about 1,140 square kilometers in 2004.\n\nAdditionally, recent poppy seed cultivation has decreased while coca cultivation actually has not. Overall attempted coca cultivation by growers (total planted coca without taking eradication into account) increased somewhat, from 2,467 square kilometers in 2003 to 2,506 square kilometers in 2004. Coca cultivation reached its highest point during the program in 2002 at 2,671 square kilometers.\n\nThe U.S. and Colombian governments interpret this data to show a decline in potential production of cocaine, from a peak of 700 metric tons in 2001 to 460 in 2003 and 430 in 2004, as result of an increase in \"newly planted [coca fields] in response to eradication,\" which should be less productive than mature coca.\n\nU.S. government officials admitted in late 2005 that the market price of cocaine has yet to rise significantly, as would be expected from the above reductions in supply. They pointed to possible hidden stashes and other methods of circumventing the immediate effect of eradication efforts which allow for a relatively constant flow of drugs able to enter into the market, delaying the consequences of drug eradication. U.S. Drug Czar John Walters stated that \"the reason for [reductions in supply not immediately driving prices up] is that you are not seizing and consuming coca leaves that were grown in 2004 in 2004. You are seizing and consuming coca leaves that were probably grown and processed in 2003 and 2002.\"\n\nOther observers say this points to the ultimate ineffectiveness of the Plan in stopping the flow of drugs and addressing more important or underlying issues like providing a viable alternative for landless and other peasants, who turn to coca cultivation due to a lack of other economic possibilities, in addition to having to deal with the tumultuous civil conflict between the state, guerrillas and paramilitaries. They also say that by making coca difficult to grow and transport in one area will lead to the movement of the drug cultivation processes to other areas, both inside and outside Colombia, a consequence also known as the balloon effect.\n\nAs an example of the above, it is claimed by critics that Peru and Bolivia, as countries which had earlier monopolized coca cultivations until local eradication efforts later led to the eventual transfer of that part of the illegal business to Colombia, have recently had small increases in coca production despite record eradication in Colombia, which some years ago accounted for about 80% of the coca base produced in South America. Supporters of the Plan and of drug prohibition in general consider that the increase has, so far, been significant to be a sign of the above \"balloon effect\".\n\nThe Colombian government announced that it eradicated around 73,000 coca hectares during 2006 which, according to it, would be above all local records in coca plant destruction. The Colombian government said that it plans to destroy an additional 50,000 hectares of coca in 2007.\n\n\"The Weekly Standard\" hailed Colombia as \"the most successful nation-building exercise by the United States in this century\", noting:\n\nColombia used to be the world capital of kidnappings, but the number of victims is down from 2,882 in 2002 to 376 in 2008. Terrorist acts in the same period have fallen from 1,645 to 303. Homicides are also down dramatically: from 28,837 in 2002 to 13,632 in 2008, a 52 percent reduction. Three hundred fifty-nine Colombian soldiers and police lost their lives in battle in 2008, down from 684 in 2002. Between 2002 and 2008, the total hectares of cocaine eradicated rose from 133,127 to 229,227; tons of cocaine seized rose from 105.1 to 245.5; and the number of drug labs seized rose from 1,448 to 3,667. All statistics on narcotics production are hard to gather and therefore suspect, but the latest indications are that last year cocaine production in Colombia fell by 40 percent. Although Colombia's GDP grew by only 2.4 percent in 2008 as a result of the worldwide slowdown, it grew almost 8 percent in 2007, up from less than 2 percent in 2002. Unemployment is still high at 11.1 percent, but considerably lower than in 2002 when it was 15.7 percent.\nCurrently several members of the Colombian armed forces are being prosecuted for this operation in the United States, claiming the operation to have been illegal, unjustly as the US government fully funded this operation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83896", "title": "Priapism", "text": "Priapism\n\nPriapism is a condition in which a penis remains erect for hours in the absence of stimulation or after stimulation has ended. There are three types: ischemic (low-flow), nonischemic (high-flow), and recurrent ischemic (intermittent). Most cases are ischemic. Ischemic priapism is generally painful while nonischemic priapism is not. In ischemic priapism, most of the penis is hard; however, the glans penis is not. In nonischemic priapism, the entire penis is only somewhat hard. Very rarely, clitoral priapism occurs in women.\nSickle cell disease is the most common cause of ischemic priapism. Other causes include medications such as antipsychotics, SSRIs, and blood thinners, as well as drugs such as cocaine and cannabis. Ischemic priapism occurs when blood does not adequately drain from the penis. Nonischemic priapism is typically due to a connection forming between an artery and the corpus cavernosum or disruption of the parasympathetic nervous system resulting in increased arterial flow. Nonischemic priapism may occur following trauma to the penis or a spinal cord injury. Diagnosis may be supported by blood gas analysis of blood aspirated from the penis or ultrasound.\nTreatment depends on the type. Ischemic priapism is typically treated with a nerve block of the penis followed by aspiration of blood from the corpora cavernosa. If this is not sufficient, the corpus cavernosum may be irrigated with cold normal saline or injected with phenylephrine. Nonischemic priapism is often treated with cold packs and compression. Surgery may be done if usual measures are not effective. In ischemic priapism, the risk of permanent scarring of the penis begins to increase after four hours and definitely occurs after 48 hours. Priapism occurs in about 1 in 20,000 to 1 in 100,000 males per year.\n\nPriapism is classified into three groups: ischemic (low-flow), nonischemic (high-flow), and recurrent ischemic. The majority of cases (19 out of 20) are ischemic in nature.\n\nSome sources give a duration of four hours as a definition of priapism, but others give six: \"The duration of a normal erection before it is classifiable as priapism is still controversial. Ongoing penile erections for more than 6 hours can be classified as priapism.\"\n\nPriapism in females (continued, painful erection of the clitoris) is significantly rarer than priapism in men, and is known as clitoral priapism or clitorism. It is associated with persistent genital arousal disorder (PGAD). Only a few case reports of women experiencing clitoral priapism exist.\n\nBecause ischemic priapism causes the blood to remain in the penis for unusually long periods of time, the blood becomes deprived of oxygen and can cause damage to the penile tissue itself. Should the penile tissue become damaged, it can result in erectile dysfunction or disfigurement of the penis. In extreme cases, if the penis develops severe vascular disease, the priapism can result in penile gangrene.\n\nPriapism may be associated with haematological disorders, especially sickle-cell disease, sickle-cell trait, and other conditions such as leukemia, thalassemia, and Fabry's disease, and neurologic disorders such as spinal cord lesions and spinal cord trauma (priapism has been reported in people who have been hanged; see death erection).\n\nPriapism may also be associated with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, which leads to decreased NADPH levels. NADPH is a co-factor involved in the formation of nitric oxide, which may result in priapism.\n\nSickle cell disease often presents special treatment obstacles. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy has also been used with success in some patients. Priapism is also found to occur in extreme cases of rabies. Priapism also occurs due to encephalitic rabies.\n\nPriapism can also be caused by reactions to medications. The most common medications that cause priapism are intra-cavernous injections for treatment of erectile dysfunction (papaverine, alprostadil). Other groups reported are antihypertensives, antipsychotics (e.g., chlorpromazine, clozapine), antidepressants (most notably trazodone), anti-convulsant and mood stabilizer drugs such as sodium valproate, anticoagulants, cantharides (\"Spanish Fly\") and recreational drugs (alcohol, heroin and cocaine). Priapism is also known to occur from bites of the Brazilian wandering spider and the black widow spider.\n\nThe mechanisms are poorly understood but involve complex neurological and vascular factors.\n\nThe diagnosis is often based on the history of the condition and the physical exam.\n\nBlood gas testing the blood from the cavernosa of the penis can help in the diagnosis. If the low flow type of priapism is present the blood typically has a low pH while if the high flow type is present the pH is typically normal. Color doppler ultrasound may also help differentiate the two. Testing a person to make sure they do not have a hemoglobinopathy may also be reasonable.\n\nMedical evaluation is recommended for erections that last for longer than four hours. Pain can often be reduced with a dorsal penile nerve block or penile ring block. For those with nonischemic priapism cold packs and pressure to the area may be sufficient.\n\nFor those with ischemic priapism the initial treatment is typically aspiration of blood from the corpus cavernosum. This is done on either side. If this is not sufficiently effective then cold normal saline may be injected and removed.\n\nIf aspiration is not sufficient a small dose of phenylephrine may be injected into the corpus cavernosum. Side effects of phenylephrine may include high blood pressure, slow heart rate, and arrhythmia. If this medication is used, it is recommended that people be monitored for at least an hour after. For those with recurrent ischemic priapism diethylstilbestrol (DES) or terbutaline may be tried.\n\nDistal shunts, such as the Winter's, involve puncturing the glans (the distal part of the penis) into one of the cavernosa, where the old, stagnant blood is held. This causes the blood to leave the penis and return to the circulation. This procedure can be performed by a urologist at the bedside. Winter's shunts are often the first invasive technique used, especially in hematologically induced priapism, as it is relatively simple and repeatable.\n\nProximal shunts, such as the Quackel's, are more involved and entail operative dissection in the perineum to where the corpora meet the spongiosum, making an incision in both, and suturing both openings together. Shunts created between corpora cavernosa and saphenous vein called Grayhack shunt can be done though this technique is rarely used.\n\nAs the complication rates with prolonged priapism are high, early penile prosthesis implantation may be considered. As well as allowing early resumption of sexual activity, early implantation can avoid the formation of dense fibrosis and hence a shortened penis.\n\nIn sickle-cell anemia treatment is initially with intravenous fluids, pain medication, and oxygen therapy. The typical treatment of priapism may be carried out as well. Blood transfusions are not usually recommended as part of the initial treatment but if other treatments are not effective exchange transfusion may be done.\n\nPersistent semi-erections or intermittent states of prolonged erections have historically been sometimes called semi-priapism.\n\nThe name comes from the Greek god Priapus (), a fertility god often represented with a disproportionately large and permanent erection.\n\n"}
{"id": "7069859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7069859", "title": "Priesthood blessing", "text": "Priesthood blessing\n\nA priesthood blessing in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is a \"prayer for healing, comfort or counsel given by a Melchizedek Priesthood holder, who lays his hands on the head of the person receiving the blessing.\" Priesthood blessings are considered to be non-saving ordinances by Latter-day Saints.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43512319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43512319", "title": "Protein M", "text": "Protein M\n\nProtein M is an immunoglobulin-binding protein found on the cell surface of the human pathogenic bacterium \"Mycoplasma genitalium\". It is presumably a universal antibody-binding protein, as it is known to be reactive against all antibody types tested so far. It is capable of preventing the antigen-antibody interaction due to its high binding affinity to any antibody. The Scripps Research Institute announced its discovery in 2014. It was detected from the bacterium while investigating its role in patients suffering from a cancer, multiple myeloma.\n\n\"Mycoplasma genitalium\" was discovered in 1980 from two male patients suffering from non-gonococcal urethritis at St Mary's Hospital, Paddington, London. After two years, in 1983, it was identified as a new species. After several years of intense research, it was found to be the cause of sexually transmitted diseases, such as urethritis (inflammation of the urinary tract) both in men and women, and also cervicitis (inflammation of cervix) and pelvic inflammation in women. However, the molecular nature of its pathogenicity remained unknown for three decades.\n\nOn 6 February 2014, The Scripps Research Institute announced the discovery of a novel protein, which they named Protein M, from the \"M. genitalium\" cell membrane. Scientists identified the protein during investigations on the origin of multiple myeloma, a type of B-cell carcinoma. To understand the long-term \"M. genitalium\" infection, Rajesh Grover, a senior staff scientist in the Lerner laboratory, tested antibodies from the blood samples of patients with multiple myeloma against different \"Mycoplasma\" species. He found that \"M. genitalium\" was particularly responsive to all types of antibodies he tested from 20 patients. The antibody reactivity was found to be due to an undiscovered protein that is chemically responsive to all types of human and non-human antibodies available. When they isolated and analysed the protein, they discovered that it was unique both in structure and biological functions. Its structure has no resemblance to any known protein listed in the Protein Data Bank.\n\nProtein M is about 50 kDa in size, and composed of 556 amino acids. Contrary to the initial hypothesis that the antibody reactions could be an immune response to mass infection with the bacterium, they found that Protein M evolved simply to bind to any antibody it encounters, with specifically high affinity. By this property the bacterium can effectively evade the immune system of the host. This makes the protein an ideal target for developing new drugs. Rajesh Grover estimated that the protein can bind to an average of 100,000,000 different kinds of antibodies circulating in human blood. Unlike closely related proteins such as Protein A, Protein G, and Protein L, which all contain small, multiple immunoglobulin domains, Protein M has a large domain of 360 amino acid residues that binds primarily to the variable light chain of the immunoglobulin, as well as a binding site called LRR-like motif. In addition, Protein M has a C-terminal domain with 115 amino acid residues that probably protrudes over the antibody binding site. It binds to an antibody at either κ or λ light chains using hydrogen bonds and salt bridges, from backbone atoms and conserved side chains, and some conserved van der Waals interactions with other nonconserved interactions.\n"}
{"id": "1060307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1060307", "title": "Robert Blair (astronomer)", "text": "Robert Blair (astronomer)\n\nProf Robert Blair FRSE (1748–1828) was a Scottish astronomer.\n\nHe was born in Garvald, East Lothian, the son of Rev Archibald Blair, the local minister.\n\nIn 1773 he was apprenticed to Dr Francis Balfour, a naval surgeon, and served in the Royal Navy in the West Indies. On return to Scotland he studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh and qualified as a doctor in 1785.\n\nRobert Blair was the first Regius Professor of Astronomy at the University of Edinburgh (1785 until death). He invented the aplanatic lens and also coined this term. This was a significant step in reducing the aberration in optical systems. He also experimented with hollow lenses, holding different solutions.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1786.\n\nHe died in Westloch, Berwickshire on 22 December 1828.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51163312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51163312", "title": "Sagamihara stabbings", "text": "Sagamihara stabbings\n\nThe Sagamihara stabbings were committed on 26 July 2016 in Midori Ward, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, Japan. Nineteen people were killed and twenty-six others were injured, thirteen severely, at a care home for disabled people. The suspect was a 26-year-old man, identified as , a former employee of the care facility. Uematsu surrendered at a nearby police station with a bag of knives and was subsequently arrested. The attack was described as one of the worst crimes committed on Japanese soil in modern history.\n\n is a residential care center run by , a social welfare organization. Established by the local government, the facility was built in a area of woodland on the bank of the Sagami River. As of the end of April, the facility housed 149 residents between the ages of 19 and 75, all of whom had an intellectual disability but many with various physical disabilities as well. Some are capable of engaging in physical activities outdoors, while others are bedridden. The facility is located in a remote location about from Sagamiko Station on the Chūō Main Line.\n\nAt about 02:10, Satoshi Uematsu allegedly used a hammer to break into the care center through a glass window on the first floor. He tied up a staff member, took their keys, and then went from room to room, stabbing the victims in their necks as they slept. Police were called to the care center by staff members at around 02:30 local time, reporting a man with a knife breaking into the building. However, Uematsu left the premises before being apprehended; he was recorded leaving the facility at 02:50 in security camera footage.\n\nArmed police entered the building at around 03:00 where they discovered the crime scene. Twenty-nine ambulances were sent to the facility. The suspect turned himself in at the Tsukui Police Station two hours after the incident with a bag containing kitchen knives and other bloodstained sharp tools. A knife was reportedly found in his car outside the police station.\n\nUematsu allegedly killed ten women and nine men aged between 18 and 70 and injured 26 more, 13 severely.\n\n, born in 1990, was a 26-year-old male at the time of the incident and used to work at the care home Tsukui Yamayuri En. His father was an elementary school art teacher, and Uematsu had trained and worked as an elementary school teacher as well. He had lived in his house with his parents, but they moved away at some point and he remained there alone. He resigned from working at the facility in February 2016 after having been employed there for over three years.\n\nNeighbors expressed surprise that he had allegedly committed the murders; he was described as a friendly, outgoing and good man. However, some reported that his personality had undergone a change at some point during his employment at the facility.\n\nIn February 2016, Uematsu attempted to hand-deliver a letter to Tadamori Oshima, the Speaker of the House of Representatives of Japan, at Oshima's home in Tokyo but was prevented from doing so by security. He returned the following day and this time left the letter with the security guards. Uematsu's letter appealed for the legalization of ending the lives of those with multiple disabilities in cases where it was requested by their guardians, and asked for Oshima's assistance in delivering his message to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. In it, he wrote, \"I envision a world where a person with multiple disabilities can be euthanised, with an agreement from the guardians, when it is difficult for the person to carry out household and social activities.\" He also wrote that the killings of the disabled would be \"for the sake of Japan and world peace\" as well as to benefit the global economy and prevent World War III.\n\nAfter signing his name, the letter proceeded to detail an offer to target two facilities housing the disabled (possibly a reference to the two residential buildings in which he later committed the crime), and went on to appeal for certain conditions in exchange for committing the act. In the first half of the message, Uematsu said he could kill 460 people; however, in the second half, the number he gave was 260. He added that staff would be tied up to keep them from interfering but that they would not be harmed, the act would be swift, and that afterwards he would turn himself in. At the end of the latter half of the letter, he signed his name again, this time with his address, telephone number, and the name of his employer.\n\nAt some point, the letter was handed over to Tokyo police, who contacted the police in Sagamihara. During this time frame, Uematsu posted to his Twitter account that he expected he might be arrested. He had previously posted tweets about Japan being ravaged by radiation poisoning and AIDS.\n\nLater that month, after his letter was brought to the attention of Sagamihara's authorities, he was arrested, detained, questioned, and then involuntarily committed to a psychiatric hospital for two weeks. However, he was released on 2 March after doctors deemed that he was not a threat.\n\nIn his letter and in statements made after turning himself in, Uematsu explained that he was \"saving from unhappiness\" both the severely disabled and those who he believed were burdened with maintaining their lives.\n\nOn 20 February 2017, Uematsu was found mentally competent to stand trial. On 24 February, Uematsu was charged with 19 counts of murder, 24 counts of attempted murder, two counts of illegal confinement causing injury, three counts of illegal confinement, one count of unlawful entry, and one count of violating the swords and firearms control law.\n\nYoshihide Suga, the Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary, acknowledged that the attack was \"a very heart-wrenching and shocking incident in which many innocent people became victims\". He also said that the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare would investigate ways to prevent a similar incident from occurring again.\n\nA number of Japanese news outlets ran editorials calling the stabbings a hate crime. By September 2016, little information had been released about the victims of the attack. Reuters wrote that this was due to Japanese culture and stigma being less accepting of physically and cognitively impaired persons.\n\nOn 13 September 2016, the governor of Kanagawa Prefecture, Yuji Kuroiwa, said the facility would be rebuilt.\n\n"}
{"id": "17001945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17001945", "title": "Soft water path", "text": "Soft water path\n\nThe concept of the soft path was first used for energy resource management and was developed by Amory Lovins shortly after the shock of the 1973 energy crisis in the United States. This concept has now been refined and applied to water, most notably by water expert Peter Gleick and David Brooks. The soft path is often framed as a more integrated and effective alternative to supply-side water resource management. Supply-side water management focuses on meeting demands for water through centralized, large-scale physical infrastructure, and centralized water management systems. In the 20th century, this approach focused on constructing bigger dams and drilling deeper wells to access more water to meet projected demands of consumers. More recently, a focus on demand-side management has emerged in regions where water supply is increasingly constrained (see, for example, Peak water), and it focuses on managing demand and making current practices more efficient. The soft path integrates both supply and demand concepts but in a broader context by recognizing that water is a means to satisfy demands for goods and services and asking how much water, of what qualities, is actually required to satisfy those demands efficiently and sustainably. Soft path water planning also requires broader institutional approaches to water management including the application of smart economics, the potential for distributed rather than centralized water systems, and more democratic participation in water policy decisions. Others have described the soft path as \"unleashing the full potential of demand-side management.\",\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47591189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47591189", "title": "The Aversion Project", "text": "The Aversion Project\n\nThe Aversion Project was a medical torture program in South Africa led by Dr. Aubrey Levin during apartheid. The project identified gay soldiers as conscripts who used drugs in the South African Defence Forces (SADF). Victims were forced to submit to \"curing\" their homosexuality because the SADF considered homosexuality to be \"subversive\" and those who were homosexual were subject to punishment. The approach taken by the SADF to treating the homosexual and transsexual patients were done with extremely old knowledge that can be taken back to the ideologies of Havelock Ellis. The requirement for homosexuals going through gender reassignment surgery is to have extensive assessment and a period of supervision for two years. In 1995 the Medical Association of South Africa issued a public apology for past wrongdoings.\n\nDuring the Apartheid Era in South Africa there existed a dual policy on homosexuality in the South African military. This dual policy consisted of two major components which prohibited permanent members of the force from being homosexual, while permitting homosexuality amongst conscripts. The dual policy was adopted because officials believed that banning homosexuality from the military completely would give a specific group of individuals – young, white South African men – a convenient way to avoid serving in the military. Thus, the dual policy was adopted and enforced; however, with toleration of homosexuality came forced 'therapy,' such as compulsion shock therapy, castration, and other forms of 'therapy' which were said to significantly violate basic human rights. Between 1971 and 1989, victims were submitted to chemical castration and electric shock treatment meant to cure them of their homosexuality. This trend was heavily supported by psychiatrists with the idea that homosexuals were mentally ill, which was stated in the American Psychiatric Associations \"Diagnostic and Statistic Manual of Mental Disorders\". Conscripts with this proclaimed 'mental illness' were treated significantly different than other members of the military. They were not given military leadership positions and they were not entrusted with sensitive information. During the course of the shock therapy treatment electrodes were strapped to the upper arm with wires, then run through a dial calibrated from 1 to 10, varying the current. Homosexual soldiers were shown black and white pictures of a naked man and were encouraged to fantasize, at which a point the person-in-charge would administer a shock if the soldiers showed any form of sexual response and voltage was increased throughout the treatment if the soldiers continued to exhibit sexual responses. The patient would then be shown a colored picture of a woman, which was supposed to stimulate arousal, however, more often than not, this failed. As a result of these failures, there is also evidence that sexual realignment procedures took place on the individuals who were unable to be 'cured.' Because there is no scientific evidence to prove that 'therapies' have the ability to alter ones sexuality, these tortures reached their peak during the 1970s, where therapy for homosexual soldiers was no longer supported by the field of mental health. Consequently, the definition of homosexuals as mentally ill was removed from the American Psychiatric Associations manual in 1973, and the treatment was left behind.\n\nA team of individuals: academic researchers and activists on behalf of the Gay community came together in order to obtain more information about the treatment of homosexual military personnel during the Apartheid Era. This was a research project based on qualitative methodology that helped to further examine why homosexuality was considered to be unusual behavior at that time. Various homosexual individuals – who were targets of the conversion therapy – along with the families and friends of these individuals were interviewed in order to obtain in-depth, first hand, experiences of those directly impacted. Prior to following through with the project, the researchers had to be approved by a research committee. However, the research committee had an issue with researchers using the word \"abuse\" as a way of describing what happened to homosexual military personnel. The research committee believed that considering the conversion 'therapy' to be abuse was only an assumption, it was not supported by factual evidence. Therefore, the term \"abuse\", when used in the research project, had to be supported with factual evidence. Additionally, the researchers considered the actions of psychologists initiating this conversion shock therapy as a human rights violation. The research ethics committee, on the other hand, did not agree. This raised concerns about the research project because the committee did not want this to be an investigation into the practices of medical officials involved in the military. Furthermore, the committee questioned the sampling methods of the researchers. Because researchers would be accepting volunteers, they found that the sampling method used would not be representative of the experience as a whole.\n\nThe medical abuse of patients in South Africa can be seen in various situations, aside from just the conversion therapy. To protect the health of your citizens includes treating them all with the same respect and equality. A doctors first priority should be working towards finding a solution for the medical problem the patient presents them with. However, different than many other countries, South Africa was still very religiously traditional and divided racially amongst its citizens. This led to the connection between being homophobic and engaging in a violation of human rights. Gay patients health issues were neglected and stereotyped. Doctors showed clear discrimination against gay patients when they paid less attention to fulfilling their needs because of the association of HIV/AIDS with homosexual men. This led to inadequate health care, and additional abuse from those who value the medical opinion of doctors. One can also attribute the abuse of homosexuals to economic and social problems that South Africa may have been facing during that time. This can be explained by some as the need to regain social control. The racial divide in South Africa put anyone other than the white man outside of the norm. According to Sander Gilman, \"the worldwide concept of pervasion is the basic quality ascribed to the other. in turn blacks, women, and those deemed sexually deviant were seen as fundamentally disordered and were institutionalized in numbers far higher than straight white men\" This bothering can be used to explain why whites in South Africa felt so strongly about homosexuality, and finding a way to get rid of it.\n\nAubrey Levin was the primary leader of the project against homosexual military personnel. He argued that the same type of procedures could cure other groups. These included drug addicts and the disturbed (those who did not want to serve in the apartheid military). He started the project and ran Ward 22 at 1 Military Hospital, in Voortrekkerhoogte, which is where majority of the patients were treated. He was one of 24 other doctors that were warned by the truth and reconciliation commission that what they were doing was a violation of human rights, and they risked being labeled as perpetrators of human rights abuses. Levin has admitted to the abuse claiming that all patients were \"volunteers\". Since then, Levin has been accused of many more instances of medical foul practice, targeting many other men (not only those who identified as homosexual). He was sentenced in a five-year prison sentence on April 23, 2014, which is where he currently resides awaiting release.\n\nAfter the conversion therapy was noticeably failing, staff came up with an alternative. As a result, whenever treatments would not work, they put patients through a sex change operation. This included being put through surgery and being given a new identity. Patients would then be discharged from the military, and advised to cut themselves off from family and friends. As many as 900 homosexuals, mostly 16–24 year-olds who had been drafted, were surgically turned into women and given birth certificates to fit their modified anatomy. This surgery was done in military hospitals and a high rate of patients died during surgery. Additionally, the reassignments were often incomplete, leaving patients with a halfway finished procedures. After being discharged there were no follow-up appointments to finish the surgeries or check on their progress mentally and physically. In order to stay on track with their gender reassignment, patients needed an expensive supply of hormones, but they typically lacked the means to pay for these hormones to maintain their new identities. When converting from one sex to another, there is a lengthy process that accompanies the success; individuals must be prepared both mentally and physically for the drastic changes that are going to take place. Without this preparation, patients also faced depression leading to many of these patients to committing suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "43292321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43292321", "title": "The Practice PLC", "text": "The Practice PLC\n\nThe Practice PLC is one of the largest providers of Primary Care in the English NHS.\n\nThe Practice was established in 2004 - then called Practice Networks - by Dr Jeremy Rose and Dr Ajit Kadirgamar in Amersham. It now runs over 50 GP surgeries and GP-led Health Centres. In February 2014 it had the biggest list of about 174,000 registered patients of any provider in England.\n\nIn February 2012 the company closed down the Camden Road Surgery – a long-standing GP practice previously taken over by US health company UnitedHealth in 2008 - less than a year after taking over the contract because the surgery's landlord refused an extension for the premises lease beyond April 2012. Camden Road was one of six practices taken over from UnitedHealth when the American firm decided to refocus its UK business to concentrate solely on commissioning support, and exploit the opportunities presented by the Government's NHS reforms.\n\nIn February 2018 its practices had a registered population of more than 200,000. Since 2016 it has been majority owned by the Centene Corporation. In 2016 it set up TPG Complex Care, which is focused on care at home for patients with complex needs. In March 2016 it had 517 staff - 188 clinical and 331 in administration. It ran five surgeries in Brighton but gave them up in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "49351005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49351005", "title": "Urethral hypermobility", "text": "Urethral hypermobility\n\nUrethral hypermobility is a condition of excessive movement of the female urethra due to a weakened urogenital diaphragm. It describes the instability of the urethra in relation to the pelvic floor muscles. A weakened pelvic floor muscle fails to adequately close the urethra and hence can cause stress urinary incontinence. This condition can be measured with anterior compartment descent. It is sometimes treated with urethral bulking injections.\n"}
{"id": "36173300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36173300", "title": "Van Wyk v Lewis", "text": "Van Wyk v Lewis\n\nVan Wyk v Lewis is an important case in South African law, particularly in the area of delict and on the question of negligence.\n\nThe defendant, a surgeon, had performed an urgent and difficult abdominal operation upon the plaintiff. The operation took place in a hospital at night, assisted by an anesthetist and a qualified nurse on the hospital staff who acted as theatre sister. At the conclusion of the operation, one of the swabs used by the defendant was overlooked and remained in plaintiff's body, from which it passed after a lapse of twelve months. The evidence showed that:\n\n\nIn an action against the defendant for damages for negligence in failing to remove the swab, the court held that negligence could not be inferred from the mere fact that the accident happened; the onus of establishing negligence lay upon plaintiff. Although the defendant, in performing the operation, was bound to exercise all reasonable care and skill, it was a reasonable and proper practice to leave the duty of checking the swabs to the theatre sister, so the defendant, in following that practice, was not guilty of negligence. Assuming, without deciding, that the sister was negligent in checking the swabs, the court held that the defendant was not liable for the result of such negligence.\n\nThe decision of the Queenstown Circuit Local Division, in \"Van Wyk v Lewis\", was thus confirmed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30505272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30505272", "title": "Yong Vui Kong v Public Prosecutor", "text": "Yong Vui Kong v Public Prosecutor\n\nYong Vui Kong v. Public Prosecutor was a seminal case decided in 2010 by the Court of Appeal of Singapore which, in response to a challenge by Yong Vui Kong, a convicted drug smuggler, held that the mandatory death penalty imposed by the (\"MDA\") for certain drug trafficking offences does not infringe Articles 9(1) and 12(1) of the Constitution of Singapore.\n\nArticle 9(1) states: \"No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty save in accordance with law.\" The Court of Appeal held that the term \"law\" does not exclude laws sanctioning inhuman punishment. This does not mean that all laws are justified whatever their nature. Laws which violate fundamental rules of natural justice, or those that are absurd or arbitrary cannot be considered law. Nonetheless, the threshold of culpability in imposing the mandatory death penalty for drug-related offences is a matter of policy and is therefore a matter for legislation and not for the courts to decide. The Court distinguished a line of Privy Council cases finding the mandatory death penalty to be unconstitutional, because the constitutions of the jurisdictions from which the appeals originated contained an explicit prohibition against inhuman punishment, which Singapore's Constitution lacks. In addition, though the Constitution of India also does not expressly prohibit inhuman punishment, the Court declined to follow a decision of the Supreme Court of India invalidating the mandatory death penalty for inconsistency with Article 21 of the Indian Constitution, which is similar to Singapore's Article 9(1). Among other things, it took the view that the test for constitutional validity under Article 9(1) is different from the test applied to India's Article 21. Finally, the Court was of the opinion that rules of customary international law cannot be incorporated into the meaning of the word \"law\" in Article 9(1) as this is not in accordance with the normal hierarchy of Singapore law, which envisages that customary international law may only be adopted into the common law if it is not inconsistent with existing domestic laws. In any case, there is insufficient state practice to demonstrate that customary international law regards the mandatory death penalty as an inhuman punishment.\n\nThe Court of Appeal also held that the mandatory death penalty does not violate Article 12(1) of the Constitution, which states: \"All persons are equal before the law and entitled to the equal protection of the law.\" In its opinion, the differentia used in the MDA to determine whether the death penalty should be imposed for trafficking in diamorphine (heroin) cannot be said to be purely arbitrary, and bears a rational relation to the social object of the Act which is to prevent the growth of drug addiction in Singapore by stamping out the illicit drug trade.\n\nFollowing this case, the appellant Yong Vui Kong unsuccessfully challenged the process by which the President grants clemency to convicted persons on the advice of the Cabinet.\n\nThe appellant, Yong Vui Kong, was a 19-year-old Malaysian national who was arrested in Singapore on 13 June 2007 and charged with trafficking in of diamorphine (heroin), a Class A controlled drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act (\"MDA\"). Yong told investigators that he had not been aware of the contents of the packages which he was asked to handle, maintaining instead that he had been delivering packages for his boss, a man known as \"Ah Hiang\", for whom he was working as a debt-collector. Ah Hiang had instructed him not to open the packages, and Yong had acted according to these instructions even though he was suspicious of the contents.\n\nFollowing a trial in the High Court, Yong was found guilty of drug trafficking contrary to section 5(1)(a) of the MDA. Trafficking in more than of diamorphine attracts a mandatory death penalty. The Court was of the view that Yong must have known that he had been carrying drugs. Yong instructed his counsel to file an appeal, but later asked that the appeal be withdrawn. His case was eventually taken over by another lawyer, M. Ravi, who had been instructed by Yong's brother. In the meantime, Yong had also petitioned the President of Singapore for clemency. This was rejected on 20 November 2009 and Yong's execution was set for 4 December 2009. Ravi then filed an urgent motion to challenge the constitutionality of the mandatory death penalty prescribed by the MDA. The motion was heard by Justice Woo Bih Li, who granted a stay of execution pending a decision by the Court of Appeal of Singapore.\n\nIn the hearing before the Court of Appeal, Yong was allowed to pursue his appeal. The Court was of the opinion that the initial withdrawal of the appeal was a nullity as Yong had failed to appreciate the fact that he could have proceeded with his appeal on points of law, namely, challenging the compatibility of the mandatory death penalty with Articles 9(1) and 12(1) of the Constitution of Singapore.\n\nIn the present case before the Court of Appeal, Yong challenged the constitutionality of the mandatory death penalty imposed by the MDA on the grounds that it violated Article 9(1) and/or Article 12(1) of the Constitution.\n\nArticle 9(1) of the Constitution reads: \"No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty save in accordance with law.\" The word \"law\" is defined in Article 2(1), which states that \"'law' includes ... the common law in so far as it is in operation in Singapore\".\n\nThe Court of Appeal noted that if the appellant's challenge on the basis of Article 9(1) was successful, it would mean that mandatory death penalty provisions in statutes other than the MDA would also be unconstitutional, such as the penalties of the following offences:\n\n\nYong's first argument was that the word \"law\" in Article 9(1) did not include laws that imposed inhuman punishments. Since the mandatory death penalty was inhuman, the provisions in the MDA that imposed a mandatory death sentence ran afoul of the Constitution. The argument hinged on the fact that the mandatory death penalty has long been held to be an inhuman punishment in a string of cases from Belize, Saint Christopher and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Barbados, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, the Bahamas, Grenada, the United States, Uganda, Malawi, and India. The Court of Appeal indicated that many of the cases had been distinguished in its earlier decision \"Nguyen Tuong Van v. Public Prosecutor\" (2005), and that this was merely \"traversing old ground\". However, the Court did highlight three cases.\n\nThe first was the Privy Council case \"Reyes v. R.\" (2002), an appeal from Belize. Reyes had shot and killed his neighbour and his neighbour's wife, and had been convicted of two counts of murder. Murder by shooting was a \"Class A\" murder offence which attracted the mandatory death penalty. The Privy Council held that the mandatory death penalty imposed in this case contravened section 7 of the Constitution of Belize as it was inhuman or degrading punishment. This was because even within the category of \"Class A\" murders, there were some offenders who were not as morally culpable as the others, since the offence could have occurred in the heat of the moment. To deny the offender a chance to show the court that it would be disproportionate and inappropriate to impose the death penalty on him would thus be to deny his basic humanity.\n\nThe second case was the United States Supreme Court decision \"Woodson v. North Carolina\" (1976). The Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits cruel and unusual punishment, and the Court proceeded on this basis to strike down mandatory death penalty legislation on a 5:4 majority. The reasons given were that the mandatory death penalty imposed a process which did not take into account relevant differences between the offenders and the offence, and excluded from judicial consideration any mitigating factors. The penalty was inhuman as it treated persons convicted of a designated offence \"not as uniquely individual human beings, but as members of a faceless, undifferentiated mass to be subjected to the blind infliction of the penalty of death\".\n\nThe third case was the Indian Supreme Court judgment \"Mithu v. State of Punjab\" (1983). In that case, the appellant, who was under a sentence of life imprisonment, committed murder which attracted the mandatory death penalty under section 303 of the Indian Penal Code 1860. Similar arguments to those in \"Woodson\" were canvassed, namely, that this provision of law deprived the Court of the chance to use its discretion and wisdom and ignored all factors pertaining to the gravity of the offence.\n\nIn response to the first challenge to Article 9(1), the Attorney-General Walter Woon submitted that the courts should hold to the established principles in both \"Ong Ah Chuan v. Public Prosecutor\" (1980) as well as \"Nguyen Tuong Van\". His contention was premised on the argument that the Privy Council's decisions in the cases following \"Ong Ah Chuan\" and \"Nguyen Tuong Van\" did not necessarily have to be followed as the Privy Council \"does not dictate human rights standards for the rest of humanity\".\n\nYong's second argument was that the word \"law\" in Article 9(1) should also be taken to include customary international law. He argued that since customary international law prohibited mandatory death penalty sentences as inhuman, the MDA provisions also violated Article 9(1). Yong's argument was based on the fact that there are a diminishing number of states which still retain the mandatory death penalty for drug-related offences.\n\nThe Attorney-General submitted that there are two possible ways in which to interpret the word \"law\". First, it could be taken to refer only to statutes and the common law applicable in Singapore. Secondly, it could be interpreted to include rules of customary international law. When queried by the Court of Appeal as to his preferred interpretation, he responded that, in principle, the word \"law\" should be taken to include customary international law, but only rules which had already been recognized and applied by the domestic courts of Singapore.\n\nFurthermore, the Attorney-General disagreed with the contention that the mandatory death penalty violates any customary international law prohibition against inhuman punishment. He submitted that the decisions after \"Ong Ah Chuan\" and \"Nguyen Tuong Van\" were reflective of the Privy Council's changing attitude toward the mandatory death penalty specifically, but did not reflect any international consensus that the mandatory death penalty is prohibited by the rules of customary international law. This was evident from the fact that there are still 31 states worldwide which continue to impose the mandatory death penalty for drug-related offences as well as other serious crimes. Thus, the international consensus needed to establish the principle contended for by the appellant was lacking.\n\nArticle 12(1) of the Constitution reads: \"All persons are equal before the law and entitled to the equal protection of the law.\" In \"Ong Ah Chuan\", the Privy Council interpreted Article 12(1) as prohibiting laws requiring differentiation in the punishment of individuals in the same class, but allowing differentiation in punitive treatment between different classes of individuals where there was a difference in the circumstances of the offences committed. This dissimilarity in circumstances would justify discriminatory punitive treatment as long as it was not purely arbitrary and bore a reasonable relation to the social object of the law.\n\nYong argued that the MDA made the quantity of 15 grams of diamorphine the only determinant of whether the mandatory death penalty should be imposed, and that this was highly arbitrary as baseless distinctions had to be drawn between offenders who trafficked in different amounts of controlled drugs. Six points were raised to support this contention:\n\n\nIn response, the Attorney-General cited the two-step \"reasonable classification\" test applicable to Article 12(1) that had been outlined in \"Nguyen Tuong Van\" – that a differentiating measure in a statute is valid if:\n\n\nThe Attorney-General submitted that the 15-gram differentia was intelligible and bore a rational relation to the social purpose of the MDA: to have a deterrent effect on drug trafficking in or through Singapore by large-scale drug traffickers.\n\nThe Court of Appeal noted that the definition of the word \"law\" in Article 2(1) of the Constitution includes \"written law\", which means that the MDA is law within the meaning of Article 9(1). However, this does not mean that all laws are justified whatever their nature. Laws which violate fundamental rules of natural justice, or those that are absurd or arbitrary cannot be considered law. The Court also held that all the cases which the appellant relied on concerned the offence of murder instead of drug-related offences. This being the case, \"the rationale underlying those cases has no direct application to the present appeal\". It relied on the judgment of Lord Diplock in \"Ong Ah Chuan\" which stated that while it was possible for the offence of murder to be committed in the heat of the moment, it was \"more theoretical than real in the case of large scale trafficking in drugs, a crime [for] which the motive is cold calculated greed\". The Court was of the opinion that the threshold of culpability in imposing the mandatory death penalty for drug-related offences was a matter of policy and was therefore a matter for legislation and not for the courts to decide.\n\nAlso, apart from \"Mithu\", the cases cited such as \"Reyes\" and \"Woodson\" were decided in different textual contexts, as inhuman punishment was expressly prohibited by the constitutions of the respective jurisdictions from which the cases originated. Hence, those cases were strictly based on the issue of what kind of punishment would be considered inhuman and not directly related to the issue on appeal in \"Yong Vui Kong\", which was the meaning of the word \"law\" in Article 9(1) of the Singapore Constitution.\n\nAs for \"Mithu\" itself, the Court held that there were three reasons for not adopting the reasoning of the Indian Supreme Court. First, the test for constitutional validity under Article 9(1) is different from the test applied to Article 21 of the Indian Constitution, which states: \"No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.\" The phrase \"procedure established by law\" means a \"fair, just and reasonable procedure established by valid law\". In \"Mithu\", section 303 of the Indian Penal Code was found to infringe Article 21 as it did not satisfy this test. However, Singapore's Article 9(1) is worded differently, and does not specifically require that any law passed be \"fair, just and reasonable\" for it to be considered \"law\". The Court felt that the \"fair, just and reasonable\" test for constitutionality was too vague, as whether a law restricted the right to life or personal liberty according to such criteria would hinge on a court's view of the reasonableness of the law. In effect, the court would be intruding into the legislature's domain.\n\nSecondly, according to this interpretation of Article 21 of the Indian Constitution any law which removed judicial discretion would be unconstitutional. The result would be that all mandatory sentences would contravene Article 21. The Court of Appeal held that this was not the law applicable in Singapore. The Court was also of the opinion that in India Article 21 was given relative pride of place in its constitutional framework due to the \"economic, social and political conditions prevailing in India and the pro-active approach of the Indian Supreme Court in matters relating to the social and economic conditions of the people of India\". The situation in Singapore was different. Finally, the Court gave two reasons for declining to imply a provision against inhuman punishment into Article 9(1). Singapore's constitutional history was markedly different from that of other Commonwealth countries, and its Constitution does not contain express prohibitions against cruel and inhuman punishments as it is not modelled upon the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, in 1966 the Wee Chong Jin Constitutional Commission specifically considered whether to include a constitutional provision against inhuman punishment. However, the proposal was not taken up by the Government.\n\nThe Court of Appeal was of the opinion that customary international law cannot be incorporated into the meaning of the word \"law\" in Article 9(1) of the Constitution. Customary international law rules do not have any status in domestic law until they are first accepted and adopted as part of domestic law. This can occur when a rule is incorporated into a statute (in which case it is no longer a customary international law rule but is regarded as domestic law), or when it is judicially declared to be part of the common law of Singapore. However, customary international law can only be incorporated into the common law when it is not inconsistent with existing domestic laws. Given the existence of the mandatory death penalty in several Singapore statutes, the Court was of the opinion that it could not treat the alleged customary international law rule prohibiting inhuman punishment as part of Singapore common law. Also, even if a rule has been incorporated in this manner, it may be overridden by subsequent inconsistent statutory provisions. Moreover, the Court did not accept the contention that customary international law should be conferred constitutional status by being read into the meaning of \"law\" in Article 9(1) as this is clearly not in accordance with the normal hierarchy of Singapore law.\n\nAt any rate, whether there is in fact a customary international law rule that prohibits the mandatory death penalty is also far from certain. The Court held that there is a lack of extensive and uniform state practice that supports the contention that customary international law prohibits the mandatory death penalty as an inhuman punishment.\n\nAgreeing with the Attorney General's submission, the Court of Appeal held that the mandatory death penalty satisfied the reasonable classification test used to assess the constitutionality of legislation with respect to Article 12(1) of the Constitution. Reiterating the Privy Council's holding in \"Ong Ah Chuan\", the Court found that the 15-gram differentia used in the MDA to determine whether the death penalty should be imposed could not be said to be purely arbitrary, and bore a rational relation to the social object of the MDA which was to prevent the growth of drug addiction in Singapore by stamping out the illicit drug trade. There was nothing unreasonable in the legislature concluding that a wholesale dealer operating higher up in the distributive pyramid required a stronger deterrent than smaller scale dealers. It was up to the legislature to determine where the appropriate quantitative boundary was to lie between the two classes of dealers. The Court also held that the quantity of addictive drugs trafficked was broadly proportionate to both the quantity of addictive drugs brought on to the market, as well as the likely harm suffered by society as a result of the offender's crime.\n\nOn the other hand, the court acknowledged that using a 15-gram differentia might not be the best method of furthering the social object of the MDA. However, the matter of what would constitute a better differentia was one which reasonable people may not necessarily agree on, and so this was a question of social policy best left to the legislature, not the judiciary. Addressing Yong's contention that in reality the mandatory death penalty only had a limited deterrent effect on drug traffickers, the Court said that it was not within the its purview to determine the mandatory death penalty's efficacy as a deterrent to drug trafficking. Such an issue was a question of policy and should be left to the legislature to decide. If any changes to the mandatory death penalty or the death penalty in general were to be effected, these had to be done by the legislature and not by the Judiciary under the pretence of constitutional interpretation. In addition, while the court acknowledged it could be argued that there was insufficient evidence of the mandatory death penalty's deterrent effect on serious offences like murder, it could also be said there was insufficient evidence that the mandatory death penalty did not have a deterrent effect.\n\nThe Court disagreed with Yong's fifth argument that an offender who did not know the amount of pure diamorphine in the substance he was trafficking had not voluntarily assumed the risk of trafficking. A drug trafficker would know his act was illegal and that he would be punished if caught, regardless of his knowledge of the precise amount of pure diamorphine he was trafficking. Yong's sixth argument was also dismissed, the Court explaining that the reason why the trafficking of a quantity of diamorphine greatly exceeding the 15-gram threshold did not incur a more severe sentence was because it would be impossible to impose a punishment more severe than the death penalty.\n\nFollowing the delivery of the Court of Appeal's judgment on 14 May 2010, Yong's lawyer M. Ravi filed an application in the High Court for leave to challenge the clemency process by way of judicial review. He sought, among other things, a declaration that it is the President and not the Cabinet that has discretion as to whether Yong's petition for clemency should be granted, and an order to grant Yong an indefinite stay of execution. Legal observers opined that the move was unprecedented, as petitions for judicial review are usually reserved for executive actions and not processes entrenched in the Constitution.\n\nThe argument was based on comments by K. Shanmugam, the Minister for Law, at a dialogue session on 9 May 2010. When asked whether Yong's case would affect Singapore's laws on the mandatory death penalty, the Minister had replied: \"Yong Vui Kong is young. But if we say, 'We let you go', what's the signal we're sending? ... We are sending a signal to all drug barons out there: Just make sure you choose a victim who's young or a mother of a young child and use them as the people to carry drugs into Singapore.\" Commenting to the media, Ravi said that if the clemency decision was indeed taken by the Cabinet and not the President, then since Shanmugam was a member of the Cabinet and these statements were made while Yong's case was \"sub judice\", his remarks implied a prejudgment of Yong's appeal for clemency. The Ministry of Law rejected as \"incorrect\" Ravi's remarks that the clemency process was flawed. It stated that as the Government's policy on the death penalty for drug offences was a \"matter of public importance\", the Government was entitled to comment on it. The Law Ministry also clarified that Shanmugam's comments were merely concerned with the Government's legislative policy and whether it would change, and that the Minister had not commented on any specific issue which was before the Court of Appeal at the time, or on what the outcome of the judgment should be.\n\nIn a judgment delivered on 13 August 2010, Justice Steven Chong dismissed the application, ruling that the power to grant a pardon lies with the Cabinet and not the President. This is because Article 21(1) of the Singapore Constitution provides that the President, by default, is to act in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet or a Minister acting under the general authority of the Cabinet, while Article 21(2) lays down an exhaustive range of exceptions from this rule. In situations where the President is empowered to act in his own discretion, the relevant constitutional provisions expressly use the phrase \"acting in his discretion\" in reference to the President. However, Article 22P states that the President may grant pardons \"on the advice of the Cabinet\", which indicates a contrary intention.\n\nThe High Court also rejected Yong's request for an indefinite stay of execution. It held that the test of apparent bias that applies to the judiciary does not govern the executive, as the executive is accountable to the electorate through the election process. Furthermore, a court of law is restricted to considering only the law and facts in making its judgment, but the executive is entitled to \"formulate and act in accordance with policy, which is wide-ranging by its very nature and difficult to evaluate in accordance with objective legal criteria\".\n\nOn 4 April 2011, the Court of Appeal dismissed an appeal filed by Yong against the judgment. It affirmed the High Court's view that the President did not possess any personal discretion when exercising the clemency power, and was required to act in accordance with Cabinet's advice on the matter. This conclusion was evident from the wording of Article 22P(1) of the Constitution, the legislative history of the clemency power in Singapore, relevant case law, and the nature of the President's power in the Constitution. The Court also noted that both Yong and the Attorney-General agreed that the power of clemency was vested exclusively in the executive and was not justiciable on the merits, because of the doctrine of separation of powers and established administrative law principles. Nonetheless, the use of the power could be judicially reviewed if it was exercised in bad faith for an extraneous purpose, or in a way that contravened constitutional protections and rights. In addition, the Court was of the opinion that the clemency process could not be regarded as having been tainted by a reasonable suspicion of bias due to the Law Minister's remarks. The Minister had merely been setting out the Government's policy of taking a tough approach towards serious drug trafficking offences by imposing a mandatory death penalty as a deterrent. In any case, the rule against bias should not be applied to ministers making public statements on government policy in the same way as it applies to judicial or quasi-judicial officers, otherwise no minister would be able to speak on any policy in public or in Parliament without the statement being regarded as a predetermination of any decision relating to the policy that might have to be made subsequently. Even if the Law Minister's statements indicated that he intended not to grant clemency to Yong, this predetermination could not be attributed to other Cabinet ministers. The alternative view was untenable, as it would mean that once any minister spoke about the Government's policy on the death penalty in a way that showed predetermination of the issue, the entire Cabinet would be disentitled from advising the President on how he should exercise the clemency power.\n\nYong's lawyer urged the Government of Malaysia to take Yong's case to the International Court of Justice to determine whether Singapore's conduct has violated local and international law. Malaysian Foreign Minister Anifah Aman subsequently sent an appeal for clemency on Yong's behalf to the Singapore Government in July 2010. \n\nYong's case has aroused interest among Singaporean and Malaysian human rights activists. A Save Vui Kong campaign was formed jointly by the Civil Rights Committee of the Kuala Lumpur and Selangor Chinese Assembly Hall and human rights group SUARAM. On 24 August 2010, a petition calling on President S.R. Nathan to spare Yong's life – bearing 109,346 signatures gathered from petitioners in Sabah, other parts of Malaysia, Singapore, and online – was delivered to the Istana, the President's official residence.\n\n\n\n\n"}
