{"id": "41566271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41566271", "title": "2014–15 Hong Kong electoral reform", "text": "2014–15 Hong Kong electoral reform\n\nThe Hong Kong electoral reform was a proposed reform for the 2017 Hong Kong Chief Executive election and 2016 Legislative Council election.\n\nAccording to the decision made by the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC) of the People's Republic of China in 2007, the 2017 Chief Executive election may be implemented by universal suffrage. The issues on how to achieve universal suffrage in the 2017 Chief Executive election became the focal point of the public debates. Most of the major political factions campaigned for their ideas on the universal suffrage, including Occupy Central with Love and Peace, an advocacy group for the occupation movement, to pressure the Beijing government to implement full universal suffrage initiated by the pan-democracy camp, as well as the Alliance for Peace and Democracy, an anti-occupy central alliance formed by the pro-Beijing camp.\n\nAfter the first consultation period, lasting from December 2013 to May 2014, a consultation report was submitted to the National People's Congress in July 2014. On 31 August 2014, the NPCSC decided that a 1200-member Nominating Committee based on the present Election Committee should only select two or three candidates before presenting them for a territory-wide ballot by ordinary voters, and each candidate must have more than half of support members of the Election Committee. It also decided that the 2016 legislative election would undergo no further adaptations since those proposed by the 2010 electoral reform. \n\nOn 18 June 2015, the Legislative Council rejected the electoral reform proposal by 28 votes to 8, many pro-Beijing legislators having left the chamber in confusion just prior to the vote.\n\nThe electoral method of the Chief Executive of Hong Kong (CE) and Legislative Council (LegCo) has been a long debated issues in Hong Kong since the Sino-British Joint Declaration which decided the transfer of the Hong Kong sovereignty to the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1997. In the Sino-British Joint Declaration, the Annex I states that the Chief Executive in the future Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) shall be selected by election or through consultations and the Legislature of the HKSAR shall be constituted by elections. The Joint Declaration stipulates that the government will be composed of local inhabitants and the elections or consultations will be held locally.\n\nThe controversy on how the electoral system of the Chief Executive and Legislative Council sparked during the drafting of the Hong Kong Basic Law in the Hong Kong Basic Law Drafting Committee (BLDC) during the late 1980s. In the Basic Law promulgated in 1990, it states the ultimate aim of selecting the Chief Executive and all members of the Legislative Council by way of universal suffrage is guaranteed respectively in Article 45 and Article 68.\n\nAfter the transfer of sovereignty, the pan-democracy camp, the opposition camp in the SAR in which its ultimate goal was to fight for the universal suffrage constantly received about 60% of the popular votes in the LegCo geographical constituency (GC) elections. The annual July 1 marches launched by the pan-democracy camp which demanded genuine democracy as promised in the Basic Law also draw thousands of Hong Kong people each year.\n\nDonald Tsang, the then Chief Executive, published the Green Paper on Constitutional Development to consult the public on the options, roadmap, and timetable for implementing universal suffrage in July 2007. A report was submitted to the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC) subsequently in December 2007. Following that, the NPCSC made the decision that provides:\n\nThe NPCSC Decision rules out the universal suffrage in the 2012 CE Election and 2012 LegCo Election but on the other hand provides the possibility of universal suffrage for CE in 2017 and LegCo in 2020.\n\nAlthough the pan-democracy camp protested against the decision of ruling out the 2007/2008 and 2012 universal suffrage, the Democratic Party, the flagship pro-democratic party in Hong Kong reached the agreement on the 2010 Hong Kong electoral reform which allowed minor changes to the 2012 CE election and 2012 LegCo Election.\n\nChief Executive Leung Chun-ying announced on 17 October 2013 the immediate establishment of the Task Force on Constitutional Development headed by the Chief Secretary for Administration Carrie Lam, Secretary for Justice Rimsky Yuen, and Secretary for Constitutional and Mainland Affairs Raymond Tam as members to handle the public consultation. On 4 December 2013, the \"Consultation Document on the Methods for Selecting the Chief Executive in 2017 and for Forming the Legislative Council in 2016\", entitled \"Let's Talk and Achieve Universal Suffrage\", was published which commenced a five-month public consultation period.\n\nThe Consultation Document set out the questions such as the size and composition of the Nominating Committee for the CE election and the size of Legislative Council, the electorate base of the functional constituencies and also number of geographical constituencies and number of seats in each geographical constituency.\n\nThe consultation period ended in May with increasingly heated debates and the Consultation Report was published in July 2014. Following that Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying submitted the \"Report by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress\". The public generally speculated that the NPCSC will set the framework of the electoral reform in the meeting in coming August.\n\nDuring the consultation period, there were proposals suggested by various political groups and individuals which included:\n\nCivic Party legislator Ronny Tong put forward an initial proposal for the Chief Executive universal suffrage in October 2013 and supported by Professional Commons legislators Dennis Kwok, Charles Mok and Kenneth Leung. The proposal suggests increasing the membership of nominating committee from the 1,200 member Election Committee to 1,514 and maintain the nomination threshold of 150 votes. Tong recommended the instant runoff voting system, which is used in Ireland, Australia, Sri Lanka, and mayoral elections in London, San Francisco, and some governors in the states of the United States, to have the elected CE who could accepted by all sectors. Tong also recommended cancelling existing law which disallows the Chief Executive belonging to a political party membership. Dennis Kwok suggests increasing the electorate base of the nominating committee to 1 million, which fulfils the \"broadly representative\" principle.\n\nThe think tank Hong Kong Democratic Foundation (HKDF) also sets out proposals of 2016 Legislative Council elections and 2017 Chief Executive universal suffrage on 29 May 2013.\n\nThe HKDF suggests those functional constituencies (FC) in which voting includes corporate voters to be replaced by individual votes from staff and management members of companies, organisations or institutions that are the constituent members of each FC. For the 5 District Council FC seats requiring candidates to be District Councillors, that qualification would be removed and the 5 seats be reconstituted as a territory-wide geographical constituency (TWGC). The additional one-seat added to each geographical constituency (GC) for the 2012 LegCo election should be transferred to the TWGC, so that this constituency would comprise 10 seats. A further 10 new LegCo seats would be added to the TWGC. Candidates for the TWGC would be required to secure a minimum of 500 nominations, 100 nominations from registered voters in each of the 5 GCs. In conclusion, the 2016 Legislative Council would consist of total 80 seats:30 seats from 5 geographical constituencies; 30 seats from functional constituencies and; 20 seats from the Territory-wide geographical constituency.\n\nThere are three alternatives for the formation of the nominating committee for electing the Chief Executive:\n\nHKDF suggested Any Chinese national who is a registered GC voter can become a potential candidate with nominations from at least 1/8 of the members of the Nominating Committee (NC) or with at least 100,000 nominations from registered GC voters. All candidates once elected to be nominated by the NC have to affirm to abide by the Oath of the CE Office. After the closing date for submission of requests for nominations by candidates, the NC (e.g. jointly signed by 100 NC members) has right to evaluate the nominations for compliance with the rules after his or her declaration of candidacy and make complaint to the Electoral Affairs Commission to start a judicial process of removing the candidate. The final list of qualified nominated candidates will stand for election by universal suffrage, using the two-round system. A second round of CE elections will be held if no candidate received more than 50% of the votes and the two candidates with the highest vote count will proceed to the second round.\n\nStudent activist group Scholarism issued a statement on 23 June 2013 stressed the necessity of civil nomination for the 2017 Chief Executive election. For the 2016 Legislative Council elections, it called for the abolition of the split voting in the Legislative Council; increase of the geographical constituency seats to about 60%; and transfer of the District Council (Second) seats to the geographical constituency. For the 2017 Chief Executive universal suffrage, it suggests letting all 3.5 million registered voters to be the nominating committee, the nomination threshold to be 100 thousand voters and allowing the Chief Executive to have political party membership. For the 2020 Legislative Council universal suffrage, the Scholarism suggested the abolition of the functional constituencies and increase of the membership of the LegCo from 70 to 80 seats, half of them elected by constituency-wide proportional representation and the other half by territory-wide proportional representation.\n\nOn 8 January 2014, the Alliance for True Democracy (ATD) released its \"Chief Executive Election Plan\" with the support of all 27 pro-democratic Legislative Council members. The election plan includes three channels for nomination: civil nomination, political party nomination, and nomination by the nominating committee. Civil nomination demands a candidate to secure the signed endorsement of 1% of the registered voters; political party nomination requires a political party receiving 5% or more of the total valid votes in the last Legislative Council direct election. The nominating committee shall not refuse to endorse any civil and political party nominees who meet the legal requirements, such as not less than 40 years old, has no right of abode in any foreign country; political conditions such as \"love China, love Hong Kong\" and \"no confrontations with Beijing\" are not acceptable. The Alliance also demands the abolition of the existing stipulation which disallows the Chief Executive belonging to a political party membership.\n\nFor the Legislative Council elections, the Scholars Group of the ATD put forward proposals for the transition toward the universal suffrage: For 2016 Legislative Council Election, the Scholars Group suggests:\n\nFor the universal suffrage of the Legislative Council, there are two proposals from the Scholar Group:\nA group of 18 moderate academics, including Dr Brian Fong Chi-hang, vice-chairman of the thinktank SyngergyNet, former Legislative Council president Andrew Wong Wang-fat, Community Care Fund head Dr Law Chi-kwong and University of Hong Kong law lecturer Eric Cheung Tat-ming, put forward a mid-way proposal in April 2014 to give the public a strong role in selecting Chief Executive candidates without breaching the Basic Law. Under the plan, a candidate who received signatures of support from 2% of registered voters and become a possible candidate to the 1,200-strong nominating committee. Political parties and committee members would also be able to put forward candidates, who would need the support of one-eighth of the committee to enter in the election with universal suffrage.\n\nThe Beijing-loyalist Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong (DAB) on 22 April 2014 also put forward its own proposal, suggesting the formation of the nominating committee should be composed with reference to the composition of the current Election Committee, consisting of four sectors that have equal number of members while establishing subsectors for the counselling profession, women and youth, and SMEs respectively. The DAB's proposal opposes any nominating methods which are not stipulated in the Basic Law, including \"public nomination\" and \"political party nomination\".\n\nA intended candidate should gain endorsements from not less than one-tenth and not more than one-eighth of members of the nominating committee to be recommended as an eligible prospective candidate. More than fifty percent of valid votes in the nominating committee a candidate should acquire for standing in the election for the collective will and the majority rule of the committee to be reflected.\n\nOn 24 March 2013, Qiao Xiaoyang, chairman of the Law Committee under the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC) stated that Chief Executive candidates must be persons who love the country and love Hong Kong, who do not insist on confronting the central government. Observers stated that Qiao comment was to screen out candidates from the opposition pro-democracy camp.<ref name=\"25/3/13\"></ref>\n\nLi Fei, Qiao's successor as chairman of the NPCSC Law Committee stressed the similar statement on 22 November 2013, \"the chief executive is accountable to the central government as well as Hong Kong. This means that the post must be taken up by a person who loves the country as well as Hong Kong – anyone opposed to the central government cannot [take it].\"\n\nSome pan-democrats also demand the right of Hong Kong residents to nominate a CE candidate. Student-led group Scholarism in September 2013 called for parties to sign a charter which lists civil nomination as a priority.<ref name=\"20/9/2013\"></ref> Under the civil nomination proposal, the nominating committee may put forward to run those candidates who receive a quota of nominations from ordinary voters.<ref name=\"23/12/2013\"></ref> The Democratic Party, Labour Party and Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood refused to sign it as they disagree that civil nomination is the only way to put forward candidates. Secretary for Justice Rimsky Yuen raised legal arguments against civil nomination as he claimed it may bypass the nominating committee and \"turn it into a plastic stamp\" as Article 45 of the Basic Law states that \"the selection of the Chief Executive by universal suffrage upon nomination by a broadly representative nominating committee in accordance with democratic procedures.\"\n\nQiao Xiaoyang also mentioned in his speech on 24 March 2013 that \"the nominating committee is in fact an organisation. The nomination of CE candidates by the nominating committee is a form of organisational nomination. It is opposed by the pan-democracy camp as the method to screen out the opposition candidates as the pan-democrat candidates would not get a majority support from the nominating committee. The pan-democrat candidates were able to enter the last CE elections by getting just one-eighth of the nomination threshold from the Election Committee. There were also some interpretations that an organisational nomination would be a breach of the Basic Law.\n\nOn 21 March 2013, twelve pan-democratic groups on the basis of the Alliance for Universal Suffrage for the 2010 electoral reform formed the Alliance for True Democracy. Chaired by Convenor Joseph Cheng Yu-shek, political scientist at the City University of Hong Kong, the alliance priority would be to strive for public support in the political reform debate, and to form a consensus proposal by the end of the year.\n\nA group called Hong Kong 2020, launched by Convenor Anson Chan, the former Chief Secretary for Administration on 24 April 2013, with members such as Allen Lee, Johannes Chan, and Gladys Li, strives for the full implementation of the universal suffrage for 2017 CE election and 2020 LegCo election.\n\nThe New Year demonstration for genuine democracy on 1 January 2014 drew thousands of people. A \"New Year Civil Referendum\" was also conducted at the Victoria Park and over the Internet on the same day. More than 94 percent of over 62,000 voters thought that there should be an \"element of civil nomination\" in the CE election.\n\nScholarism also suggested a plan for five legislators from pan-democracy parties to quit as a means to trigger another de facto referendum on political reform, mirroring the similar move that five legislators resigned and launched the \"five constituency referendum\" for the 2010 reform package. However, major pro-democracy parties have expressed reservations, with some fearing that such action could divert public attention from the camp's Occupy Central strategy to fight for universal suffrage.\n\nIn early 2013, Benny Tai, Associate Professor of Law at the University of Hong Kong started the campaign called \"Occupy Central with Love and Peace\" that proposes a nonviolent occupation protest at Central, Hong Kong in mid 2014 if promises made by the Central People's Government for universal suffrage were not realised.<ref name=\"25/2/13\"></ref>\n\nThe Occupy Central movement commissioned HKPOP to run a poll on three proposals which involve allowing citizens to directly nominate candidates to present to the Beijing government from 20 to 29 June 2014. A total of 792,808 people, equivalent to a fifth of the registered electorate, took part in the poll by either voting online or going to designated polling stations. All three call for the public to be allowed to nominate candidates for the 2017 chief executive election, an idea repeatedly dismissed by Beijing as inconsistent with the Basic Law. However, the Alliance's \"three track\" proposal would allow the public, the nominating committee, as well as political parties, to put forward candidates. 691,972 voters (87.8 per cent) agreed that the Legislative Council should veto any reform proposal put forward by the government if it failed to meet international standards, compared with 7.5 per cent who disagreed.\n\nA counter organisation, the Alliance for Peace and Democracy, orchestrated by Beijing, was established to counter the Occupy Central movement and it received widespread media attention when it launched a month-long signature campaign for people who oppose the Occupy Central Movement, which lasted from 19 July 2014 to 17 August 2014. The campaign claimed it had collected over a million signatures supporting the campaign, although questions are raised over credibility of the number of signatures collected.\n\nIn mid August, pan-democratic legislators met with Zhang Xiaoming, Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in Hong Kong in groups to discuss political reform. Zhang stressed again that Hong Kong should consider political reform from a national security point of view and that Beijing and Hong Kong must be wary of a very small number of people trying to turn the territory into a base against the mainland. Following that, 49 of the 70 Legislative Councillors went to Shenzhen to discuss political reforms on 21 August. It was attended by Director of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office Wang Guangya and Basic Law Committee chairman Li Fei and also 15 pan-democrats. The Beijing officials and pan-democrats also met exclusively to further the discussion of the different stances between the two parties. Before the meeting, 26 pan-democrat legislators vowed to veto any reform proposal for the 2017 chief executive election that does not meet international standards for universal suffrage. Labour Party lawmaker Lee Cheuk-yan, said Hong Kong should not accept a proposal that only promises \"one person, one vote,\" but screens out popular candidates.\n\nOn 31 August 2014, the Tenth Session of the Standing Committee of the Twelfth National People's Congress (NPCSC) set limits for the 2016 Legislative Council and 2017 Chief Executive elections. While calling for \"universal suffrage,\" the \"Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress\" imposes the standard that \"the Chief Executive shall be a person who loves the country and loves Hong Kong\" and requires that \"the method for selecting the Chief Executive by universal suffrage must provide corresponding institutional safeguards for this purpose.\" The decision states that for the 2017 Chief Executive election, a nominating committee, similar to the present Election Committee system, be formed to nominate two to three candidates, each of whom must receive the support of more than half of the members of the nominating committee. After popular election of one of the nominated candidates, the new Chief Executive \"will have to be appointed by the Central People's Government.\" The process of forming the 2016 Legislative Council would be unchanged, but following the new process for the election of the Chief Executive, a new system to elect the Legislative Council via universal suffrage would be developed with the approval of Beijing.\n\nWhile Li Fei, a deputy secretary general of the Committee, said that the procedure would \"protect the broad stability of Hong Kong now and in the future,\" pro-democracy advocates viewed the decision as a betrayal of the principle of \"one person, one vote,\" as they feared that candidates deemed unsuitable by the Beijing authorities would stand no chance at being nominated. The Standing Committee decision is set to be the basis for new electoral law crafted by the Legislative Council, where Hong Kong's Democratic Party has already promised to \"veto this revolting proposal.\" As a result of the decision, Occupy Central said it was planning civil disobedience protests. Also in response to the CPC decision, Hong Kong Federation of Students and the student pressure group Scholarism staged a co-ordinated class boycott in Hong Kong and organise public events, including street assemblies, which escalated into a 79-day large-scale occupy movement.\n\nOn 7 January 2015, the Hong Kong government published the \"Consultation Document on the Method for Selecting the Chief Executive by Universal Suffrage\" (Consultation Document) and launched a two-month public consultation on the method for selecting the Chief Executive (CE) by universal suffrage which ended on 7 March 2015. In the same month, the HKSAR government also released the \"Report on the Recent Community and Political Situation in Hong Kong\", as its promise to the Hong Kong Federation of Students after the negiotation with the leaders in the course of the occupy movement. In protest to the NPCSC, the pan-democracy camp boycotted the consulatation.\n\nAlbert Chen Hung-yee, a constitutional law expert and member of the National People's Congress Basic Law Committee, put forward a proposal suggesting a compromised propsal with \"none of the above\" option on the ballot paper. Under the plan, if \"none of the above\" accounts for 50 per cent of the vote or more, there has to be a revote. It is intended to put pressure on the candidates, handpicked by a 1,200-strong nominating body, to lobby for support of the public as well as that of the committee members. Pan-democrats call it a \"passive\" scheme and dislike the high threshold for a revote, while the pro-Beijing side does not want to give the public veto power. Chen dropped the proposal in March, citing \"[a]t this stage I can't see any proposal will be accepted by both camps\".\n\nOn 4 March 2015, Dr Robert Chung, director of University of Hong Kong's Public Opinion Programme, suggested the government hold a vote to gauge public views after it releases its reform proposal in the next month. \"If two-thirds of the voters say they want to pass the package, the pan-democrats should respect the results and not insist on a veto,\", Chung said, as the two-thirds majority is the requirement laid down in the Basic Law for the legislature to pass any political reform. Secretary for Justice Rimsky Yuen Kwok-keung dismissed the idea as \"[u]nder the Basic Law, there is no provision for a referendum. And Hong Kong is a special administrative region, therefore, there is no legal basis for us to have a referendum.\"\n\nOn 22 April 2015, the Hong Kong government unveiled its legislative proposal for the electoral reform. Legislative Council convened to discuss the election overhaul plan. To the chagrin of opposition lawmakers, only very minor changes were offered as concession. Chief secretary of Hong Kong, Carrie Lam, stated: \"We should weigh very carefully whether the passage of these proposals or a standstill in constitutional development will be a more favourable outcome for the overall and long-term interests of Hong Kong.\"\n\nDissenting pro-democracy legislators had already stated they would veto the proposals. In response to the proposals, they on the wearing black marched from the chamber of the legislature as soon as Lam's speech ended. Some legislators raised yellow umbrellas, a symbol of the Occupy movement.\n\nMembers of the Task Force on Constitutional Development – Chief Secretary for Administration Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, Secretary for Justice Rimsky Yuen Kwok-keung, and Secretary for Constitutional and Mainland Affairs Raymond Tam Chi-yuen – together with politically appointed officials took part on 25 April in a territory-wide bus parade to appeal for public support for the city's constitutional reform package on an open-top double-decker bus on which slogans of \"2017 Make it happen!\".\n\nA pro-Beijing group, Alliance for Peace and Democracy on 9 May launched a nine-day campaign, with hundreds of booths set up to collect signatures from Hong Kongers aged 18 and above, in support of the government's proposed electoral reforms. It claimed around 360,000 people added their names over the weekend. Meanwhile, the pan-democracy camp launched a citywide campaign to rally public opinion against the proposal.\n\nOn 31 May 2015, three top Beijing officials, Basic Law Committee chairman Li Fei, Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office director Wang Guangya and Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in Hong Kong director Zhang Xiaoming met with members of the Legislative Council in Shenzhen, which included pan-democratic legislators. The Beijing officials dashed any hope of last-minute concessions from Beijing with tough stances during the four-hour talk and the post-meeting press conference. Li also stressed that the framework set down on 31 August would govern the election of Hong Kong's leader by universal suffrage in 2017 and onwards. The pan-democrats said they would definitely veto the political reform package as the meeting with mainland officials left them with no choice.\n\nSecretary for Constitutional and Mainland Affairs Raymond Tam Chi-yuen confirmed on 2 June 2015 that reform proposals would be tabled to the Legislative Council on 17 June with no modifications.\nDuring the second day of the debate on 18 June 2015, right before the vote, pro-Beijing legislators Ip Kwok-him (DAB) and Jeffrey Lam Kin-fung (BPA) led a walk-out of members of the DAB, the BPA, most members of the FTU and other pro-Beijing legislators, after Jasper Tsang denied Lam's request for a 15-minute recess. Lam later explained that the walk-out was an impromptu attempt to delay the division so that his party member Lau Wong-fat, who was delayed, could cast his vote in favour of the Beijing-backed reforms. Unbeknownst to the lawmakers outside the chamber, however, five Liberal Party legislators, Chan Yuen-han of the FTU and two other pro-Beijing independents remained in the chamber and voted in favour of the proposal. On the other hand, all 27 pan democrats who had vowed to vote down the reform did so, as did one pro-Beijing legislator Leung Ka-lau representing the Medical constituency. The government's reform proposal failed as eight legislators voted in favour and 28 voted against, barely meeting the quorum of 35. Since it had been expected the reform would be voted down by 41-28 (which would fall only six votes short of the two-third absolute majority stipulated by the Basic Law), the failure in pro-Beijing camp's sudden tactics resulted in a surprising landslide defeat that gave the rest of the world the impression there was no support for the blueprint.\n\nThe fiasco was described by analysts as an \"embarrassment\" for Beijing, and the Central Government's Liaison Office met or phoned pro-Beijing legislators about it after the voting. Much blame was placed on Jeffrey Lam Kin-fung who was seen as a key instigator of the walkout. Ip Kwok-him, caucus convenor of the DAB who stood up and ushered everyone to the exit apologised for his part. New People's Party chairwoman Regina Ip Lau Suk-yee lost her tough composure during a radio show on the next day, openly sobbing as she lamented her failure to cast her ballot. Liberal Party chairman Felix Chung Kwok-pan was offended by those who said it was \"unfortunate\" the Liberals had stayed behind to vote instead of joining the majority in their walkout. An advert signed by 33 pro-Beijing legislators was published in seven Chinese-language newspapers and in an English version published in \"South China Morning Post\" on the next days, saying their plan \"was foiled by gaps in communication\".\n\nOn 25 June, the \"Oriental Daily News\" published a section of leaked WhatsApp group conversation among pro-Beijing legislators before the voting. President of Legco, Jasper Tsang Yok-sing of the DAB, was revealed to have joined the pro-Beijing legislators' discussion about their timing-control strategy. The pan-democrats criticised him for failing to uphold the impartiality as president and for exposing their plan to the rival camp. Tsang refused to resign, denying having done anything inconsistent with the rules of procedure or violated the neutrality of Legco president. Media also noted that there was no mention of Lau Wong-fat at all even though his late arrival would trigger the walk-out.\n\nIn April 2014, Anson Chan, former Chief Secretary of Hong Kong and founder of pro-democracy group Hong Kong 2020, and Martin Lee, founder of Hong Kong's opposition Democratic Party, went to the United States and met Joe Biden, US Vice-President at the White House. The activists spoke out against Beijing increasing control over Hong Kong and their fear of only candidates picked by Beijing would be allowed to take part in the 2017 Chief Executive election. Lee and Chan also voiced concerns over press freedom in Hong Kong, referring to violent assaults on journalists and alleging that Beijing is pressuring advertisers to shun critical media. Biden underscored Washington's \"long-standing support for democracy in Hong Kong and for the city's high degree of autonomy under the 'one country, two systems' framework,\" the White House said. China warned the United States against meddling in Hong Kong's internal affairs after Biden met with Chan and Lee. In response, Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that it \"firmly opposes any countries meddling in the city's internal affairs in any way,\" \"South China Morning Post\" quoted.\n\nDuring their trip to America, Lee and Chan also met with Nancy Pelosi, minority leader of the House of Representatives, and members of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China. \"The future of freedom and democracy in Hong Kong is under serious threat,\" Senator Sherrod Brown, head of the commission, said in a prepared statement, as quoted by Reuters. \"China is already placing 'pre-conditions' on who can run, raising serious doubts about whether the elections will be free and fair,\" he added.\n\nIn early May 2015, A US bipartisan delegation led by Matt Salmon, a Republican who chairs the Subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs with Republican Tom Emmer and Democrat Alan Lowenthal on a fact-finding mission visited Hong Kong to learn about developments in Hong Kong. They held meetings with Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying and also legislators across the spectrum on the government's reform package, which pan-democrats have pledged to reject. Matt Salmon told leaders of the four pan-democratic parties, Democratic Party chairwoman Emily Lau Wai-hing, Civic Party leader Alan Leong Kah-kit, Labour Party chairman Lee Cheuk-yan and Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood lawmaker Frederick Fung Kin-kee, that a system where \"people are elected by the people\" was better than one in which leaders were chosen via a narrow constituency, saying that 'sometimes half a loaf is better than no loaf'. Lee said the congressmen had described the proposed chief executive election plan as \"definitely not equal suffrage\" and said they were not trying to convince the pan-democrats but to learn more about the reform debate. Fung said the congressmen had described the reform plan as not fully democratic but had stressed it was a decision for Hongkongers to make. Tam Yiu-chung, ex-chairman of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong who also met the trio, read the congressmen's interest in compromise as a signal that they wanted to see the reform package passed.\n\nIn July 2014, Anson Chan and Martin Lee visited the United Kingdom and met with Deputy Prime Minister and the leader of the coalition's junior partner the Liberal Democrats Nick Clegg and raised concerns over China's jurisdiction of the region, and questioning Britain's commitment to Hong Kong's democratic development. Clegg affirmed Britain's commitment to honour the pledge that if China breached the Sino-British Joint Declaration, Britain would \"mobilize the international community and pursue every legal and other avenue available\". Clegg also criticised British Prime Minister David Cameron for prioritising trade with the world's second largest economy over democracy in Hong Kong. A source close to Clegg said Cameron's Conservative Party had become \"so deferential in their attitude to China\" they would not stand up for democracy in Hong Kong. China issued a formal complaint to Britain after the meeting. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said China was firmly opposed to any foreign interference in its internal affairs on any pretext.\n\nAnson Chan and Martin Lee also attended a Foreign Affairs Select Committee hearing, speaking out that they were \"concerned that neither of the two signatories to the Joint Declaration – that is, China and Britain – is adequately fulfilling their respective responsibilities on the terms of this internationally binding treaty.\" Richard Ottaway, a member of Parliament and chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, said that the committee would announce a report as early as next week on the British government's policy toward Hong Kong, but \"it's not a report into the internal operations of Hong Kong.\" Within two months of its publication, the British government will have to respond to the conclusions and recommendations set out in the report.\n\nLiu Xiaoming, PRC's ambassador to Britain, described Martin Lee and Anson Chan as \"bent on undermining the stability of Hong Kong\". He sent a letter to the members of parliament on 14 July, warned members against visiting Hong Kong. \"I do not think your planned visit to Hong Kong is helpful and strongly advise you not make it,\" Liu wrote. A second letter, from the National People's Congress Foreign Affairs Committee, sent to the British committee in July, saying that the inquiry into post-handover Hong Kong by the committee would be seen as interference in China's internal affairs and called for it to be cancelled. Undeterred by warnings from Beijing, Richard Ottaway told the \"Sunday Morning Post\": \"We are planning to come in December and I have no reason to think that we won't be there.\" \"The Hong Kong government, the Chinese government and the National People's Congress shouldn't necessarily think that we are automatically hostile,\" Ottaway said.\n\nChris Patten, the last Governor of Hong Kong under the British rule, wrote in the \"Financial Times\" in September, questioning Britain's \"sense of honour\" in failing to condemn China's planned reforms in Hong Kong, which he said would introduce the kind of stage-managed democracy seen in Iran. He said that the UK had a “moral and political obligation” to defend full democracy in the city. In response to the remarks by Chris Patten, a spokesman for the Leung Chun-ying's Chief Executive's Office on Thursday responded by saying that all Governors of Hong Kong were not elected by Hong Kong people under the British rule; the Sino-British Joint Declaration does not provide for universal suffrage; Hong Kong's constitutional development under the Basic Law is an internal affair of China.\n\nIn the British government's first official response to China's 31 August decision, they said they \"welcome the confirmation that China's objective is for the election of Hong Kong's chief executive through universal suffrage.\" Anson Chan and Martin Lee heavily criticised the UK government's acceptance of China's plan for limiting free elections in its former colony of Hong Kong.\n\nAfter the electoral reform proposal was voted down, British minister Hugo Swire expressed his country's disappointment at the outcome, and said that \"a transition to universal suffrage is the best way to guarantee Hong Kong’s stability\".\n\nOn the question (or variants thereof): \"The National People's Congress Standing Committee has set a framework to limit the number of candidates to two or three and require them to have the support of at least half of the 1,200 nominating committee members. Should the Legislative Council pass or veto the government proposal on the election of the chief executive by universal suffrage based on this framework?\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44923119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44923119", "title": "52 Broadway", "text": "52 Broadway\n\n52 Broadway, formerly known as the Exchange Court Building or Chemical Bank Building is a high-rise building on Broadway and Exchange Place in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, New York City. The building was originally built with 12 floors in 1898 by Clinton & Russell, architects, but it was rebuilt and restored in 1980-1982 by Emery Roth & Sons. It is now high with 20 floors.\n\nIn September 1903, the Consolidated National Bank took out a five-year lease on around 2,500 square feet of ground floor at the Exchange Court Building, which was located at the corner of Broadway and Exchange Place.\n\nThe naval architectural firm Gielow & Orr had their headquarters in the building in the early 20th century. The United Federation of Teachers currently has its headquarters in the building.\n"}
{"id": "17626850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17626850", "title": "888 7th Avenue", "text": "888 7th Avenue\n\n888 7th Avenue is a 628 ft (191m) tall modern-style office skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan which was completed in 1969 and has 46 floors. Emery Roth & Sons designed the building, which is tied with Central Park Place for the 65th tallest building in New York City. It currently carries the Vornado Realty Trust corporate headquarters. Previously known as the Arlen Building, its namesake being the company responsible for its construction, Arlen Realty & Development Corporation. The Red Eye Grill is located in the building at street level. \n\nMoed de Armas renovated the Lobby, Elevators & Plaza in 2006, cladding them with white marble. The HVAC was also extensively renovated and the building was later given gold certification by the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28242917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28242917", "title": "Abdul Malik Jaber", "text": "Abdul Malik Jaber\n\nDr. Abdul Malik Al-Jaber is a Palestinian businessman. He served as the CEO of Zain Jordan, the country's leading telecommunications provider for two years till July 1, 2011, and is a member of the board of the World Economic Forum.\n\nAl-Jaber is a graduate of Berzeit University, McGill University in Canada, the Northwestern University-Kellogg School of Business Administration in Chicago, and the International School of Management in Paris. He holds a DBA, MBA as well as a MSc and PhD in Engineering.\n\nAbdul Malik Al-Jaber returned to Palestine from Canada—where he had gone to university—with the onset of the Oslo peace process in 1993, during which time he joined the peace negotiations as part of the Palestinian Technical Committees headed by Faisal Husseini.\n\nAl-Jaber established the first Palestinian Energy Research Center, which was tasked with providing strategic plans for the energy sector in Palestine. Under a presidential decree, Al-Jaber became head of the center, after which he also acted as principal advisor for the Ministry of Planning. Al-Jaber's tenure in the public sector also included assuming responsibility for the Palestinian Industrial Estate Authority as director general.\n\nIn 2000, Al-Jaber moved to the private sector and held several senior positions. He became the CEO of the Palestinian Industrial Estates Development Company, during which he supervised the establishment of Palestine's first industrial estate in Gaza.\n\nHe was vice chairman of the board and CEO of the Paltel Group since 2003. In this position, Al-Jaber restructured the company towards increased profits and sustained innovation and social responsibility. He increased the company's profits from USD 15 million in 2003 to USD 100 million in 2005. The company has met its growth targets ever since; its stock dominates the Palestine Stock Exchange.\n\nAdditionally, the Paltel Group became the first Palestinian company to pioneer the practice of Corporate Social Responsibility. They introduced sustainability practice and reporting as per the GRI Standards, and created the first corporate foundation in the country. The Paltel Group Foundation assists Palestinian society via initiatives in education, supporting creativity and excellence, and making the benefits of ICT available to different segments of society. The foundation also sponsors the Palestine International Award for Excellence and Creativity, Palestine's first international award, which is chaired by Al-Jaber.\n\nIn 2005, Al-Jaber helped found VTEL Holdings, a UAE based company with US$1 billion in capital from high-net-worth investors from Palestine and the Arab World. VTEL's business objectives were to obtain licenses to operate ICT projects worldwide including CSR countries, Africa, Central America and Latin America, and the Caribbean. the company has operations in Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia, Iraq, Kurdistan, Jordan and Burundi in Africa.\n\nAl-Jaber was appointed CEO of Zain Jordan and Zain Levant in July 2009. As CEO of Zain Jordan, the country's leading telecommunications provider, Jaber turned around the operations and achieved more than 9% growth.\n\n, Al-Jaber chairs several companies in Palestine, including the Golden Wheat Mills Company, Wassel Logistics and is a founder of the Board of Al Rafah Micro Finance Bank, the first such bank in the region. He is also the chairman of Al-Mashreq Real Estate Company, Hadara Technologies, and Hulul Business Solutions.\n\nAl-Jaber is active in peace building and regional economic cooperation projects, and is a member of the board of several business associations and business councils including the Arab Business Council, the World Economic Forum, the Arab Technology Forum and the Young Presidents' Organization. He is also a founder of the Young Arab Leaders (YAL) chapter in Palestine, and today serves as a regional board member of the YAL Organization in Dubai with chapters in Lebanon, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar and the UAE. He is also a member of the Board of Cairo Amman Bank in Jordan, and is a member of its audit committee. He is a member of the executive committee of Ayla Jordan, and the executive committee for Astra Group Jordan, which is considered one of the most important investment holdings in the Kingdom, with investments in tourism, insurance, real estate, and agriculture. Al-Jaber is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Palestine Trade Center, Paltrade.\n\nAbdul Malik Al-Jaber was a recipient of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum \"Best Arab Manager Award for Excellence in Management\" in 2001, as the leading business executive in Palestine.\n"}
{"id": "6585302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6585302", "title": "Armodios Vovos", "text": "Armodios Vovos\n\nArmodios \"Aris\" C. Vovos (Greek: Αρμόδιος \"Άρης\" Βωβός; born October 21, 1964) is a Greek businessman. The family business Babis Vovos Constructions filed for bankruptcy protection in 2015. Vovos is a rally driver and was president of Maroussi Basketball Club.\n\nVovos was the first Greek finisher in the Acropolis Rally in 1994. In 1995 he won the rally with Kostas Stefanis as his co-driver; the race was not a World Championship event that year. He scored three points in the 1994 World Rally Championship season and 1 point in the 2004 World Rally Championship season. He also competed in 2005, 2006, and 2007. He also won the Greek Rally Championship in 1995 driving a Lancia Delta, in 1997 with a Subaru Impreza WRC, in 2000 with Toyota Corolla WRC in 2001 with a Subaru Impreza WRC, and in 2009 and 2010 with Mitsubishi Lancer EVO IX (in group N).\n\nFrom 2002 to 2008, he participated in events in Greece and abroad, along with \"EL-EM\" (Loris Meletopoulos) as his co-driver.\n\nGreek Rally Championship:\n\n\nGreek Gravel Cup:\n\n\nAcropolis Rally:\n\n\nVovos is married to Vicky Lagopoulou and they have one daughter. He is the son of Greek businessman Babis Vovos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3507793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3507793", "title": "Available for sale", "text": "Available for sale\n\nAvailable for sale (AFS) is an accounting term used to classify financial assets. AFS is one of the three general classifications, along with held for trading and held to maturity, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP), specifically FAS 115. The IFRS also includes a fourth classification: loans and receivables.\n\nUnder US GAAP, AFS assets represent debt securities and other financial investments that are non-strategic, that are neither held for trading, nor held to maturity, nor held for strategic reasons, and that have a readily available market price. As such, the gains and losses resulting from marking AFS investments to market (revaluing them to market price / fair value each period) are not included in Net Income (unlike the gains and losses associated with \"trading\" investments) but are reflected in Other Comprehensive Income (income statement / retained earnings) and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (balance sheet) until they are realized (sold).\n\nUnder IFRS, AFS assets are defined as being all financial assets that do not fall into one of the other classifications. As such, the treatment closely follows that of US GAAP. Gains or losses from revaluation of the asset are put through Other Comprehensive Income in Shareholders' Equity, except to the extent that any losses are assessed as being permanent and the asset is therefore impaired (under IAS 39, paragraph 58), or if the asset is sold or otherwise disposed of. If the asset is impaired, sold or otherwise disposed of, the revaluation gain or loss implicit in the transaction is recognised as an income or expense.\n\nStarting in 2018, this treatment will be overridden by IFRS 9, according to which the revaluation gain or loss will be recognized under Other Comprehensive Income whether it be due to normal market fluctuations or impairment. Further, the revaluation gains or losses from Other Comprehensive Income will under no circumstances be recycled into Profit and Loss.\n\n"}
{"id": "42359799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42359799", "title": "British Virgin Islands bankruptcy law", "text": "British Virgin Islands bankruptcy law\n\nBritish Virgin Islands bankruptcy law is principally codified in the Insolvency Act, 2003 and to a lesser degree in the Insolvency Rules, 2005. Most of the emphasis of bankruptcy law in the British Virgin Islands relates to corporate insolvency rather than personal bankruptcy. As an offshore financial centre, the British Virgin Islands has many times more resident companies than citizens, and accordingly the courts spend more time dealing with corporate insolvency and reorganisation.\n\nThe Insolvency Act largely eschews the rescue culture and emphasises the protection of creditors' rights (and in particular secured creditors' rights) over other stakeholders in a bankruptcy and the rehabilitation and protection of businesses as a going concern. This reflects the large number of structured finance vehicles incorporated in the jurisdiction which employ leveraged finance, but do not otherwise trade or have any employees.\n\nBankruptcy of individuals is usually referred to as \"personal bankruptcy\" in the British Virgin Islands, whereas the bankruptcy of corporations is referred to as \"corporate insolvency\". The legislation largely deals with both separately, although there are some common provisions.\n\nPrior to the Insolvency Act coming into force on 1 January 2004, bankruptcy legislation in the British Virgin Islands was divided between the Bankruptcy Act (Cap 8) and the Companies Act (Cap 285). The previous legislation was largely piecemeal, and eventually resulted in a comprehensive review which led to the enactment of the 2003 statute.\n\nAfter the coming into force of the Insolvency Act 2003 (and the repeal of earlier legislation) the country had to wait nearly 18 months for the Insolvency Rules 2005 to come into force. In practice this meant that no bankruptcies were possible, because the delegation of certain key provisions, including the particulars of preferred creditors, were deferred to the rules.\n\nWhere an individual is unable to pay or provide for his debts he may be placed in bankruptcy by an order of the court.\n\nA court in the British Virgin Islands may make a bankruptcy order against an individual if:\n\nIn order to make an application for an order it is necessary to show that on the date of the application the debtor was:\n\nOnce appointed pursuant to an order the trustee in bankruptcy will collect in the assets of the debtor except for certain special assets protected by law, sell those assets and then distribute the proceeds to the creditors of the bankrupt \"pari passu\". That distribution discharges the claims of the creditors against the bankrupt individual, and all other creditors who would have claimed in the bankruptcy. The individual is thereafter discharged from bankruptcy.\n\nWhere a company is unable to pay or provide for its debts it may be placed in liquidation either voluntary by a resolution of members or compulsorily by an order of the court. British Virgin Islands law uses the phrase \"in liquidation\" in preference to the term \"winding-up\" used in other jurisdictions.\n\nA company is treated as insolvent, and liable to have a liquidator appointed if:\n\nLiquidation is a class right, and so the court will not make an order if it is opposed by a majority of creditors.\n\nOnce a liquidator is appointed, his duty to is collect in all of the assets of the company, liquidate them and pay or provide for the claims of the company's creditors \"pari passu\". Once a liquidator is appointed, creditors may not commence or continue legal proceedings against the company.\n\nAt the conclusion of the liquidation the company is dissolved.\n\nWhere the assets of the company are in jeopardy, or where the company has engaged in misconduct, it is possible to seek the appointment of a provisional liquidator.\n\nFor both individual and creditors, where any creditor also owes money a company or an individual who goes into liquidation or bankruptcy, then upon the making of the order the sums due between the parties are set-off so that only a net sum due is owed either to the creditor or the insolvent party. However, the benefit of that provision can be waived by the creditor so long as any waiver does not operate to the prejudice of other creditors. Where a person has actual notice of the insolvency of another party at the time they extended credit, they cannot set-off any obligations owed if that other party subsequently goes into bankruptcy.\n\nCreditors of a person are entitled to enter into subordination agreement to reorder the priority of claims against an insolvent party upon the bankruptcy of that party.\n\nThe Insolvency Act has incorporated ISDA Model Netting legislation (pre-2007 form) and so any netting agreement relating to financial contracts will prevail over the statutory insolvency set-off provisions. Financial contracts for these purposes are defined in some detail in the Insolvency Rules.\n\nThe Insolvency Act is \"predicated heavily towards the protection of secured creditors' rights\". Secured creditors are not ordinarily subject to the usual stays and delays on creditors' rights when enforcing a valid security interest.\n\nSimilarly, provisions such as creditors' arrangements and recognition of foreign insolvency representatives are circumscribed to the extent that they interfere with the rights of secured creditors.\n\nAlthough the Insolvency Act does not focus on rehabilitation of financially distressed companies, the legislation does contain various provisions for corporate rescue.\n\nPart II of the Insolvency Act provides for creditors' arrangements, whereby the creditors of an individual or a company may, by a 75% vote, approve an arrangement which may enable the company to continue trading. This is subject to the rights of the secured and preferred creditors.\n\nPart III of the Insolvency Act deals with administration orders, designed to enable a trading company to have breathing space to deal with its creditors. If a company had granted a floating charge the court may not make an administration order without the consent of the holder.\n\nA company may also enter into a scheme of arrangement whereby a compromise between the company and its creditors may be sanctioned by the court if approved by 75% in value and a majority in number of the company's creditors.\n\nFor both personal and corporate bankruptcy, the Insolvency Act provides that certain transactions entered into in the \"twilight\" period prior to bankruptcy may be challenged by a liquidator by application to the court.\n\nIn each case (except for extortionate credit) the bankrupt must have either been insolvent at the time of entering into the transaction or the transaction must have caused them to become insolvent.\n\nThe relevant vulnerability period is the period prior to the commencement of liquidation (for companies) or the presentation of a petition for a bankruptcy order (in the case of individuals). The vulnerability period is extended for transactions involving persons who are connected persons to the bankrupt.\n\nThe voidable transactions regime contains certain provisions designed to protect bona fide attempts to provide credit to financially distressed companies and individuals. These provisions are presumed not to apply to transactions involving connected persons.\n\nInsolvency practitioners are required to be licensed in the British Virgin Islands in order to act as a liquidator, administrator, administrative receiver or supervisor of a creditors' arrangement. A foreign insolvency practitioner may act jointly with a licensed insolvency practitioner provided that (a) the Financial Services Commission has been notified in advance of the proposed appointment in writing and has not objected within the statutory time limit.\n\nMost corporate insolvencies in the British Virgin Islands involve a cross border element. The Insolvency Act contains two parts dealing with cross-border insolvency. Part XVIII is based upon the UNCITRAL Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency, The provisions do not sit easily within the remaining structure of the Insolvency Act as they are predicated on the centre of main interest (or \"COMI\") concept, which is otherwise unknown under British Virgin Islands law, and that Part has not yet been brought into force. Part XIX deals with orders in aid of foreign insolvency proceedings. Those provisions have been utilised by the British Virgin Islands courts on a number of occasions, including most notably recognising and assisting Irving Picard in the British Virgin Islands during the Madoff investment scandal.\n\n"}
{"id": "26163206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26163206", "title": "Bryant Hall Building", "text": "Bryant Hall Building\n\nBryant Hall Building was a Manhattan edifice erected in 1820 at 725–727 Sixth Avenue, between 41st Street and 42nd Street. House numbers on that avenue were later revised; the current building on the lot is 1095 Avenue of the Americas. Known as Trainors' Hall at first, it was also called Lyric Hall. A well-known landmark of midtown Manhattan, the building was enlarged in 1840 and renamed Lyric Hall. From 1914 \"-\" 1934 its ground floor was occupied by a Horn & Hardart restaurant. It was remodeled under the supervision of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania architect Ralph B. Bencker.\n\nLaura Cuppa Smith, a California resident, spoke on the subject of \"Modern Religion: What Is Its Value?\" at Bryant Hall Building on February 11, 1872.\n\nThe edifice was noted for holding wedding receptions and balls. Tompson and Peet were among the early lessees, followed by Terhune and Robas. Bryant Hall Building was badly burned in July 1888, when a fire began in John Simpson's dry goods store on the ground level.\n\nA ten-round boxing match between Joe Jeanette and Sam McVey was sponsored by the National Sporting Club of America on April 15, 1907. McVey was the first opponent James J. Jeffries faced in his career.\n\nGrace Leroy, 19, was shot and killed during a Fashion Ball at Bryant Hall Building on January 3, 1910. She was the accidental victim of a gang feud in which revolver shots were fired in the café which adjoined the dance hall.\n\nThe antiquated condition of Bryant Hall Building led to its remodeling and conversion into a single story structure in 1934. The upper floors, except for its walls and roof, were removed. Columns were then raised on the ground floor to support a new roof. Upon the columns the steel work for the roof and sign supports was installed. Steel girders and beams were run through the old walls, which were two feet thick in some places. Finally a terra cotta front was installed. The single story structure then measured twenty feet in height. The restaurant was kept open while the remodeling progressed.\n"}
{"id": "41178759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41178759", "title": "Carlos Leôncio de Magalhães", "text": "Carlos Leôncio de Magalhães\n\nCarlos Leôncio (Nhonhô) de Magalhães (1875 in Araraquara – 1931 in São Paulo) was a Brazilian farmer and businessman. Nhonhô is considered to be one of the coffee kings and was one of the richest Brazilian farmers of the early 20th century. Carlos Leôncio de Magalhães started to work as a farmer during his early life and his name is connected to some of the most important farms of the Western part of the state of São Paulo, among which are Cambuí, Barreiro Rico and Itaquerê. Later on, these farms developed into towns, such as Matão, Nova Europa, Santa Ernestina, Gavião Peixoto and Tabatinga.\n\nThe Magalhães (or in English \"Magellan\") are a family whose origins are in Portugal. Nhonhô's grandparents, Francisco Carlos de Magalhães and Bernarda Rodrigues Monteiro, emigrated from Portugal and settled in Niterói, Rio de Janeiro, where they became affluent businessmen. Their eldest son, Carlos Baptista de Magalhães, was educated in two of the most exclusive schools in Brazil at that time, the Colégio do Santuário da Serra do Caraça (in the state of Minas Gerais) and the Colégio Pedro II (in the state of Rio de Janeiro), where he studied with some of the most prominent figures of Brazilian national politics, such as Joaquim Nabuco and Rodrigues Alves. However, after Francisco Carlos de Magalhães lost a considerable part of his wealth, Carlos Baptista de Magalhães had to move to Araraquara, São Paulo, in order to start working as a commercial representative.\n\nOnce in Araraquara, Carlos Baptista de Magalhães married D. Leôncia de Freitas Magalhães, the daughter of Justino Correia de Freitas and Anna de Arruda, from the traditional Arruda family of Araraquara. Carlos Baptista de Magalhães became a very important land owner, banker, businessman and politician and, in partnership with the family of his wife, founded the Estrada de Ferro Araraquara (Araraquara Railway) in 1895, becoming its first president. He was also a town councilor and led a monarchial uprise in the region, known as Revolução do Sertãozinho (Sertãozinho Revolution). Nonetheless, a few years after he assumed the presidency of the Partido Republicano Paulista - PRP (Republican Party of São Paulo).\n\nThrough his mother's family, Carlos Leôncio de Magalhães is connected to the most traditional families of São Paulo, among which one can identify the Arrudas, the Laras, the Alvarengas, the Prados, the Taques, the Proenças, the Barros, the Pires, the Cubas and the Moraes de Antas. These families, which rank among the first in Brazilian soil, descend from Portuguese gentry and are connected to the Portuguese, French, Aragonese, Castillan and Navarrese royal families.\n\nCarlos Leôncio de Magalhães had two sisters, Maria Dulce de Magalhães (Nicota), married to Valdomiro Pinto Alves, and Maria Elisa de Magalhães (Zilota), married to Sebastião Lebeis. Waldomiro was the son of Antonio Alves Pereira de Almeida and Gertrudes Eufrozina Pinto. Sebastião Lebeis (Rio Claro, 1874 – São Paulo 1936) was the son of Guilherme Lebeis and Escolástica de Arruda Botelho.\n\nCarlos Leôncio de Magalhães married Ernestina Reis de Magalhães (Rio de Janeiro, 1876 – São Paulo, 1968), the daughter of José Monteiro Reis and Adelaide Monteiro Palha, from Rio de Janeiro. They had eight children: Maria José (who died before she was one year old), Carlos (1903 – 1985), Oswaldo (19?? – 1974), Ernestina (1908–2000), Maria Cecilia (1911–1999), Paulo (1913 – 1996), Adelaide (1917) and José Carlos (1921–2002). Carlos Reis de Magalhães, Oswaldo Reis de Magalhães, Paulo Reis de Magalhães and José Carlos Reis de Magalhães were the managers of the Itaquerê Company, which had been founded by Nhonhô Magalhães and concentrated the majority of his estates. Beyond this occupation, Paulo Magalhães was the president of several national and multinational companies, such as Alpargatas, Philips and Rhodia (company) and José Carlos de Magalhães became a Brazilian ornithologist, whose researches were made at the Barreiro Rico Farm.\n\nCarlos married Marieta Lion and had two daughters. Oswaldo married Jandira Rondon and didn't have any child. Paulo married Marina Bastos and had five children. Ernestina married Roberto de Paiva Meira and had two children. Maria Cecilia married Antonio Ângelo Maria Duprat, viscount of Duprat, and had three children. Adelaide married Nestor Sacramento Rocha and had two daughters. José Carlos married Cecília Alves and had five children.\n\nIn spite of being tightly connected to the countryside, Carlos Leôncio de Magalhães bought a house in the early 1910s, located in Higienópolis (a wealthy neighborhood in São Paulo central area) and moved in with all his family. A few years later he decided to build a new house in the same avenue, but he died in 1931, before seeing the achievement of his last project. He was 56 years old when died of cancer.\n\nNhonhô started his professional life as a farm manager, helping his father with the administration of the family properties. When Carlos Leôncio was around twenty years old he started developing new farms in Matão, in order to sell them afterwards to foreign investors.\n\nThe best investment of Nhonhô's life was the Cambuí (or Cambuhy) farm. In 1911 he bought a huge portion of land (around 605 square kilometers, or 233.6 square miles), an area in which are located today three towns (Matão, Nova Europa and Gavião Peixoto). In this estate, Carlos Leôncio de Magalhães created the Companhia Agrícola e Pastoril d'Oeste de São Paulo - CIAPOSP, sold in 1924 to an English investment group for half a million pounds, or more than ten times what he had paid when he bought the farm. This was the highest value paid for any property in Brazil until then. This English group, called Brazilian Warrant Co, established the Cambuhy Coffee and Cotton Estates Limited.\n\nThe estate that had been sold to the English investment group was formed by 19 farms (Cambuí, Alabama, Boa Vista, Santa Josefa, Retiro, Palmas, Guanabara, Niterói, Água Sumida, São João, Flórida, Califórnia, Arizona, Contribuição, Mato Grosso, Barreiro, Virgínia, Tamandaré and Pedregulho), which had in total 3 million coffee trees and approximately 15 thousand cows. These farms were connected by 300 kilometers of roads and 70 kilometers of railways with ten railway stations (Toryba, Teixeira Leite, Cambuhy, Uparoba, Gavião Peixoto, Nova Paulicéia, Nova Europa, Matão, Ponte Alta e Santa Josefa). The Cambuí farm had more than 3 thousand employees and produced around 3,5 million kilos of coffee per year.\n\nNhonhô kept a small (but yet considerable) part of the Cambuí farm, where he established the Itaquerê farm. The name of this estate comes from the Itaquerê river, which crosses the farm. The property had 21.5 square miles and it was built to be a model of diversified production, even if coffee continued to be its main output. Carlos Leôncio also built a sugar mill (which was operated by the Companhia Açucareira Itaquerê, today called Usina Santa Fé) and a small hydroelectric power plant. Both plants are still in operation and the power plant still uses all the original machinery from 1928.\n\nThe Itaquerê farm was sold by Carlos Leôncio's heirs to the Malzoni family, which changed the name of the property to Santa Fé.\n\nAnother farm that belonged to Nhonhô was the Barreiro Rico, which was bought in 1926 and which is located in Anhembi, alongside the Tietê River. This farm of 74.75 square miles produced wood and bred nelore. The breeding of this type of cattle started in 1935, making the Barreiro Rico one of the first breeding farms still in activity in Brazil. At the beginning Nhonhô himself was the responsible for the management of the farm (from 1926 to 1931), but after that his sons Oswaldo (from 1931 to 1958) and José Carlos (from 1958 to 2001) administrated the estate.\n\n"}
{"id": "17731273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17731273", "title": "Chief customer officer", "text": "Chief customer officer\n\nA chief customer officer (CCO) is the executive responsible in customer-centric companies for the total relationship with an organization’s customers. This position is relatively new addition in the CxO hallway, and was developed to provide a single vision across all methods of customer contact. The CCO is often responsible for influencing corporate activities of customer relations in the call centre, sales, marketing, user interface, finance (billing), fulfillment and post-sale support. The CCO typically reports to the chief executive officer, and is potentially a member of the board of directors.\n\nChief Customer Officers may be known by many titles; however, according to the Chief Customer Officer Council, the CCO is properly defined as \"an executive who provides the comprehensive and authoritative view of the customer and creates corporate and customer strategy at the highest levels of the company to maximize customer acquisition, retention, and profitability.\"\n\nToday's customer requires access in many forms of media to meet their preferences and lifestyle, such as traditional voice agent, outsourced/offshored voice agent, automated voice (interactive voice response or IVR), Email, traditional mail, web chat, web collaboration, web co-browse, text, point of presence (PoP) such as sales register or kiosk, faxes, etc.\n\nA consistent customer experience across all methods of access is required by customers, who often choose to change vendors if they do not get the support they require to meet their expectations.\n\nA 2010 study by the Chief Customer Officer Council documented that there are approximately 450 executives worldwide with the CCO title or having comparable authority and responsibilities under a different title. While growing from fewer than 30 in 2003, CCOs are the newest, and by far the smallest, component of the C-suite. With an average tenure of just 29 months, the chief customer officer has the shortest lifespan among all C-suite executives.\n\nBecause the CCO role is still so new, there is as yet no executive MBA program or even a Harvard Business Review treatise about becoming a CCO. Jeanne Bliss, who was the Chief Customer Officer for Lands' End, Microsoft, Mazda, Coldwell Banker and Allstate Corporations has written a book called \"Chief Customer Officer\" that she wrote as a field guide, based on her twenty five years' experience in the role. \n\nWhile not a requirement that the CCO be a board-level position, to be effective, the Chief Customer Officer Council advises that the CCO must be one of the senior-most executives of the company. Chief Customer Officers typically report directly to the CEO, although there are some exceptions.\n\nA 2009 study of over 860 corporate executives revealed that companies that had increased their investment in customer experience management over the previous three years reported higher customer referral rates and customer satisfaction (Strativity Group, 2009).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37696472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37696472", "title": "Chief restructuring officer", "text": "Chief restructuring officer\n\nA chief restructuring officer (CRO) is a senior officer of a company given broad powers to renegotiate all aspects of a company’s finances to deal with an impending bankruptcy or to restructure a company following a bankruptcy filing. The use of CRO’s, who usually have an expertise in the field of business in which the company operates, has been increasing in popularity since the 1990s. CROs are sometimes seen as an alternative to using a Trustee in bankruptcy in a reorganization bankruptcy, because the trustees may not be knowledgeable in field of business conducted by the company.\n\nFurther CRO’s give the company management and creditors more of say in the running of a company than a trustee is required to do so. CRO’s have sometimes been compared to “turn around” consultants although the CRO differs from a turn around consultant in that the CRO is an official of the company and has executive power.\n\nWhile CRO’s officially report to the company and its board of directors, they are considered to have greatly strengthened the hand of creditors since the CRO can make executive decisions following a direct meeting with the creditors. On occasional instances, the CRO can oust the chief executive officer (CEO) or President of the company, as happened in 2012 when Gregory F. Rayburn replaced Hostess Brands CEO Brian Driscoll as CEO a month after being appointed CRO.\n"}
{"id": "8641298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8641298", "title": "Christian Van Thillo", "text": "Christian Van Thillo\n\nChristian Van Thillo (born 25 March 1962 in Antwerp, Belgium) is a Belgian businessman. He is the Chief Executive Officer of Aurex-De Persgroep, a leading Belgian media concern, which owns the Belgian newspapers Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen. De Persgroep also owns 50% of the Vlaamse Media Maatschappij (VMMa), holding of Belgian commercial TV and Radio stations.\n\nHe obtained a Master's degree in law at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, (Leuven, Belgium) and an MBA from Duke University, (North Carolina, United States).\n\nIn 1989 he became \"Group Managing Director\" of \"De Persgroep\", and in 1990 Chief Executive - General Manager of Aurex NV. His present position is CEO of De Persgroep NV. In addition he is a member of the Regency Committee, of the National Bank of Belgium (NBB). Christian Van Thillo is a member of the Belgian business club Cercle de Lorraine.\n\n"}
{"id": "44318934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44318934", "title": "Clinical mental health counseling", "text": "Clinical mental health counseling\n\nClinical mental health counseling is a distinct profession with national standards for education, training, and clinical practice. Clinical mental health counselors operate from a wellness perspective, which emphasizes moving toward optimal human functioning in mind, body, and spirit, and away from distress, dysfunction, and mental illness. Counselors also view wellness and pathology as developmental in nature, and take into consideration all levels of a client's environment when conducting assessment and treatment. Counselors also frequently take a team approach, collaborating with other mental health professionals to provide the most comprehensive care possible for the client.\n\nEarly Greek philosophy provides some of the earliest views of mental health and illness. Hippocrates, who is considered the father of medicine, related behavioral tendencies and a person's temperament to the relative balance of their body fluids. He believed that imbalances of these fluids led to aberrant behaviors. Other Greek philosophers such as Plato theorized that aberrant behaviors stemmed from societal issues that required a community response. Promoting happiness and wellness was also a major theme for the early Greeks and Romans. The founder of hedonism, Epicurus, advocated for the hedonistic lifestyle, but he also warned that there was a risk of pain if the pleasures were withdrawn. Epictetus, on the other hand, believed that people were not disturbed by things, but by the view they took of those things, so he advocated for peace of mind to treat these disturbances.\n\nThere were both cruel and humane treatments developed in the Middle Ages for the mentally ill. Most behaviors that could not be explained were attributed to supernatural causes and that humans innately had a battle between good and evil happening inside of them all the time. People were tested to see if they were evil or with the devil using “water tests”. In Baghdad and Damascus, however, in the ninth and tenth centuries, humane treatments were being developed in which centers of care for the mentally ill were based in love and kindness. Humanity regressed again in the 16th century when hospitals known as asylums were developed to provide a place for people who were unable to care for themselves. These institutions were terrible and people were often kept in restraints and left there in their own waste. In the late 1700s, there were people who began to reform the system and developed something known as moral treatment at the time. Moral treatment included organized schedules of productive behavior, socializing, entertainment, education, exercise, and nutrition.\n\nIn the early 1900s, counseling had not yet developed into treatment of mental health issues and was more focused in education. Frank Parsons, known as the father of guidance, developed a plan to educate counselors and began the Vocational Guidance Movement. He was concerned with the problems of youth as youth unemployment became a major concern for adolescents as urbanization occurred and sustainable work and family income generated on family farms was not as prevalent. At this time, counselors were considered vocational counselors and this initiated the approach that began to form the more contemporary counseling process. Around the same time, Clifford Beers, a former patient of mental health hospitals, wrote a book exposing the terrible conditions of mental health institutions and he advocated for reform. Beers later founded the National Committee for Mental Hygiene, which later became the National Mental Health Association. Jessie B. Davis was the first individual to make guidance a regular part of the school curriculum. He was a superintendent or administrator and advocated for what became school guidance and counseling.\n\nDuring the great depression, counseling methods and strategies for employment grew as it was greatly needed at the time. In 1932, Brewer wrote a book entitled “Education as Guidance”, which promoted the broadening of counseling beyond just occupation. He suggested that every teacher share the implementation of counseling and that guidance needed to be in every school curriculum. In the 1940s, Carl Rogers began the development of counseling and psychotherapy. He believed that the client knows best and that only they could explain what their needs are and what direction to go in counseling based on what problems were crucial and needed attention. Rogers clearly indicated that he was not doing psychology and the courses he taught were based in the department of education.\n\nWorld War II brought to the forefront the importance of testing and placement as there was a strong need for selection and training of specialists for the military and industry. Counselors and Psychologists had the necessary skills to fill this much needed role. At the same time, thousands of soldiers were in need as a result of their combat experiences. The veterans administration provided professional counseling services to soldiers after their discharge and in 1945, the VA granted stipends and internships for students in counseling and psychology, boosting the support and training available to counselors. This time marked the beginning of government spending on counselor preparation as we know it today. Clinical psychologists were trained to treat and diagnose individuals with chronic disorders, and counseling psychologists were trained to deal with issues presented by people with high levels of mental health. This led to a new division or category of psychologists and the Division of Counseling and Guidance of the American Psychological Association changed the title to the Division of Counseling Psychology.\n\nIn the 1950s, flaws in the existing mental health system were being exposed and clinically effective pharmacological treatments were also being developed that could be provided in outpatient settings. This led to a need for community based clinics, but access to these services were very limited. The Community Mental Health Act of 1963 was very important in the development of the counseling profession. After the government analyzed the problems with mental illness and effective treatments, President John F. Kennedy believed that high quality treatment centers located in the patients community could lead to the phasing out of state mental hospitals and drastically improve the mental health system in the United States. The national network of community mental health centers created a demand for counselors and the profession began to expand and increase numbers of counselors.\n\nAs the counseling helping profession grew, there became a need to regulate the quality of services being provided by professionals via state licensure. In 1974, a special committee was appointed by the American Personnel and Guidance Association that focused on counselor licensure. This began the steps towards the first counselor licensure law in Virginia in 1976. In the 1980s mental health counseling had clearly established itself as a profession with a distinct set of regulations and methods to providing services. According to Gerig & Gerig (2014), distinct professional are characterized by “role statements, codes of ethics, accreditation guidelines, competency standards, licensure, certification, and other standards of excellence”. The counseling profession as we know it today has established all of these facets of a distinct profession and is being recognized more and more as a valuable and much needed helping profession in our society.\n\nCounselor licensure is established by state law and is the most powerful type of credential. Receiving a license in counseling indicates that one has met the minimum standards to practice counseling in that state. State laws vary in the requirements that must be met to obtain a license. Candidates must have at least received a master's degree, have had post-master's supervised practice, and have passed a national exam. From state to state, the number of credit hours to be completed varies, as do the number of supervised hours that must be completed and the counselor titles used. Some counselors may find that if they are licensed in one state, and then move to another state, they may have to take additional courses in order to receive licensure in that state. Below, the standards for licensure in North Carolina are described. In order to explore licensure requirement for other states, please refer to the National Board of Certified Counselor’s state licensure board directory and locate the information for the licensure board in your particular state.\nAccording to the North Carolina Board of Licensed Professional Counselors, prior to completing licensure requirements, a graduate of a master's program is known as a Licensed Professional Counselor Associate (LPCA). After being licensed by the state, the counselor is known as a Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC).\n\nAccording to the North Carolina Board of Licensed Professional Counselors, applicants must submit a completed application, along with verification of the completion of the following:\n\nIn order to become licensed as a Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) in North Carolina, graduate students need to complete 60 semester hours of graduate course work in nine specific areas of study. These include:\n\nThe LPC applicant must obtain a passing score on a national exam, such as the National Counselor Exam (NCE), the National Clinical Mental Health Counseling Exam (NCMHCE), or the Certified Rehabilitation Counselor Exam (CRC). The first two exams are offered by the National Board for Certified Counselors (NBCC) and the third exam is offered by the [Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification (CRCC). In addition to the national exam, applicants must complete a no-fail Jurisprudence Exam, which covers information on laws and ethical codes.\n\nApplicants must have completed 3,000 hours of supervised counseling practice. Supervisees should receive one hour of live supervision per forty hours of practice. Of the 3,000 hours, 2,000 hours must involve direct client contact.\n\nCertification is a voluntary credential that can be acquired by counselors as well. According to Remley and Herlihy, there are two national certification agencies for the counseling profession. These are the [National Board for Certified Counselors] (NBCC) and the [Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification (CRCC)]. The NBCC also offers specialty certifications. The information regarding the certifications provided by the NBCC is outlined below.\n\nAccording to Remley and Herlihy, this certification is granted by the National Board of Certified Counselors (NBCC) after an individual has met certain requirements. These include:\n\nAccording to Gerig, counselors seeking the CCMHC specialty credential must meet the following requirements:\n\nAccording to Gerig, the Master Addictions Counselor (MAC) specialty certification is intended for counselors treating substance abuse and dependence. Counselors seeking this credential must complete the following requirements:\n\nProfessional organizations exist to serve many different functions. They provide an assembly for professionals to gather to discuss issues and problems that exist within the profession. Organizations allow the members of a profession to address issues as a group rather than facing these issues independently. Professional organizations provide an outlet for legislative activity and leadership regarding particular issues that affect the profession at all levels. Continuing education is a critical requirement for members of a profession as it ensures that all professionals’ skills and expertise are continuously updated to reflect the most current research and recommendations; professional organizations provide this continuing education to its members. These organizations also assist in keeping professionals up-to-date by providing scholarly journals, books, and media resources to its members. Lastly, professional organizations publish and enforce a code of ethics for its members.\n\nThe following professional organizations are the primary ones available to those within the clinical mental health counseling profession.\n\nAmerican Counseling Association is “a not-for-profit, professional and education organization that is dedicated to the growth and enhancement of the counseling profession”. Headquartered in Alexandria, VA, with 56 chartered branches in the United States, Europe, and Latin America, it was founded in 1952 and is noted to be the world's largest association that exclusively represents professional counselors in a variety of practice settings. ACA is divided into 20 divisions that are tailored to specialized areas and/or principles of counseling. ACA has membership available for all stages of the counseling profession from student to retirees. In addition to the professional and advocacy benefits, ACA also offers its members discounts on malpractice liability, auto, home, and personal insurance products; prescription, lab, and imaging services, and discounts from industry leaders in hotel, travel, credit cards, as well many other consumer services. Members can choose to additionally join one or more of the 20 divisions, which offer their own unique professional benefits. One of these divisions, American Mental Health Counselors Association, is integral to the field of clinical mental health counseling.\n\nAmerican Mental Health Counselors Association is made up of more than 7,000 clinical mental health counselors. Its mission is “to enhance the profession of clinical mental health counseling through licensing, advocacy, education, and professional development”. Like ACA, clinical mental health counselors at all stages of their professional journey, including students, are eligible to join AMHCA. Member benefits also include professional liability insurance plan discounts, continuing education opportunities, networking via AMHCA's annual conference, and a quarterly journal with the latest clinical mental health counseling research.\n\nNational Board for Certified Counselors is a not-for-profit, independent certification organization that was established in 1982. Its primary purposes are “to establish and monitor a national certification system, to identify those counselors who have voluntarily sought and obtained certification, and to maintain a register of those counselors”. NBCC has four voluntary certifications, the National Certified Counselor (NCC), Certified Clinical Mental Health Counselor (CCMHC), National Certified School Counselor (NCSC), and Master Addictions Counselor (MAC). The NCC and MAC are both accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA). Obtaining National Counselor Certification (NCC) through NBCC, though not required, has many professional benefits including showing the public and employers that you have voluntarily met high national standards for the practice of counseling. Additionally, NCCs receive a number of other benefits including access to low-cost liability insurance, the ability to market oneself using the certification, a free six-month listing in the Therapy Directory, continuing education credit, among others. The fees that are paid for certification go towards supporting NBCC's advocacy efforts for the counseling profession.\n\nThis type of counseling setting generally provides a wide array of services, especially depending on particular populations served, as well as geographical setting. Services may include, but are not limited to: individual, family, and group outpatient talk therapy; twenty-four-hour crisis intervention, or mobile crisis management; rape, sexual abuse, and domestic violence services; testing and assessment for career interests, and broader mental health issues; community psychoeducation and outreach; day treatment (for mentally ill and/or developmentally disabled); intensive in-home treatment; jail diversion programs; and case management.\nIn terms of insurance, some agencies are able to take both private (Blue Cross/Blue Shield, United Healthcare, etc.) and governmental (Medicaid, Tricare) policies. Regarding governmental insurance, this type of coverage is dependent on whether or not the specific agency is approved for federal and/or state funding. When it comes to serving Medicare-covered clients, counselors in the U.S. are still exempt from the list of acceptable providers, thus it is a current issue of great concern in our community. For private policies, such as Blue Cross/Blue Shield, the agency must secure a placement on the insurance company's provider panel, again no small task. It is also common for community agencies to respect uninsured clients, or clients facing financial hardship, by operating on a sliding scale, or payment plan.\n\nAlthough private practices are common in the American mental health counseling community, a licensed counselor often enters this kind of setting after several formative, professional years have passed, following completion of a master's degree program. Before making the transition into the private setting, many therapists work for a larger community-based agency, hospital, or treatment facility. The advantages certainly include, but are not limited to: an independence in providing therapy; the ability to be more selective when it comes to the clientele and population(s) served; and incorporating unique skills and special training, such as play therapy, EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing), etc.\nHowever, the act of operating a private practice is akin to running a small business. In order to prosper, it is crucial for the counselor to have proper business and public representation skills. In deciding to hang a shingle, one must be prepared to establish and maintain a respectable presence in his or her community, oftentimes promoting awareness (and thus one's business) on one's own time. Awareness activities include visiting places of worship, community centers, local businesses, etc. to perform psychoeducation workshops.\nAs described in the previous section of Community Mental Health Agencies, the same standards of insurance coverage, as well as sliding scale payment, apply to private practice settings. A big difference, however, independent counselors are often responsible for processing their own billing, if they do not have an administrative assistant.\n\nIn this mental health setting, there are many commonalities shared with the more overarching community agencies. Both environments encompass similar services, such as: individual, family, and group outpatient counseling; twenty-four hour crisis intervention; day treatment for mentally ill and/or developmentally disabled clients; and case management. Although alcohol/substance abuse programs have an obvious focus on recovery and rehabilitation, counseling services also apply to assisting in comorbidity, or dual diagnoses (e.g. bipolar disorder and alcohol dependence). Recovery programs provide specialized group counseling sessions for clients dealing with comorbidity, for gender-specific clientele, and for clients receiving methadone treatment.\nClients may enter treatment through self- or family-referral. More often than not, the majority are ordered to participate in a recovery program by a judge in Drug Court, on account of criminal charges pertaining to drunk driving, possession of illegal substances, etc. The majority of clients receive funding through Medicaid or the state, but private insurance can also be accepted. Both outpatient and residential services last an average of thirty to ninety days. Due to this seemingly brief span of time for treatment, counselors strongly encourage their clients struggling with addiction(s) to become regular attendees of local AA and/or NA meetings, and to obtain a sponsor as soon as possible.\n\nThis counseling setting is typically based within a school's wellness or health center, directly on campus. Ordinarily, there are an average of eight to ten free sessions allocated to every student for each academic year, with each session lasting roughly one hour. It is not uncommon for a client's appointments to occur once every two to three weeks, as the counseling staff serve hundreds to even thousands of students per semester. That being said, therapists in this type of employment setting can enjoy, but should be prepared for, an extreme variety of mental health concerns.\nThe clientele are principally both traditional young adult, and adult students. College and university counseling staff assist students within a broad scope of subject matter, “such as depression, anxiety, self-mutilation, eating disorders, posttraumatic disorders, and self-esteem issues”. The strictly designated number of sessions for each student is designed to make the therapy process temporary and brief. However, if a client reveals a more severe mental disorder, the staff are responsible for referring the individual to specialized services in the community.\n\nCounseling theories are interrelated principles that describe, explain, predict, and guide the actions of the counselors within different situations. The use of theory provides a tool for counselors to use in order to identify important aspects of and clearly organize a client's story or narrative. These integrated systems are evaluated by multiple criteria: precision and clarity, comprehensiveness, testability, utility, and heuristic value. Counseling theories can be classified into four distinct categories: analytic, humanistic-existential, action-based, and postmodern/multicultural approaches.\n\n\n\n\n\nA code of ethics contains standards of behavior or practice that are agreed upon as acceptable by professionals within a given field. There are multiple ethical codes within the field of counseling that counselors are expected to abide by within their work and professional role. These codes are then enforced by ethics committees and licensure boards. A violation of code may lead to a number of consequences, dependent upon the severity of the violation, and varying in such: one might be placed on probation, suspended, or even have their license revoked.\n\nWhile law clarifies a profession's scope of practice, ethics are important to each profession for a number of reasons. Not only do codes of ethics provide standards to which members of the profession are held accountable, but they also aid in the improvement of provided services. Ethical codes promote professionalism, and provide evidence of the intent of members within a profession to regulate and moderate their behavior. They assist in identifying appropriate courses of action for situations that arise without clear and easy resolution. Also, while ethical codes cannot be entirely preventative, they protect consumers from dangerous and/or inappropriate practice. Different professional organizations within each field may have their own personal code of ethics as well, such as the American Counseling Association and the American Mental Health Counselors Association in the profession of counseling.\n\nIt has been concluded that ethics encompasses five different features: possessing adequate knowledge, skills, and judgment to produce effective interventions; respecting the dignity, freedom, and rights of the client; using power inherent in the counselor's role judiciously and responsibly; conducting oneself in such a way that promotes the public's confidence in the profession; maintaining the client's welfare as the highest priority of the mental health professional,î. Similarly, six different principle ethics are often considered as crucial to take into account when faced with an ethical decision: the principle of autonomy, which relates to the client's right to control their own life, decisions, future, etc.; nonmaleficence, which translates to doing no harm to the client; somewhat oppositely, beneficence, which means doing good for or promoting the welfare of your client; justice, referring to fairness and equality on the part of the professional; fidelity, which requires the professional to fulfill a responsibility of faithfulness and trust; and veracity, which means being truthful and honest with clients.\n\nThe newest 2014 edition of the American Counseling Association's Code of Ethics contains nine sections that each address a separate area of ethical conduct: the counseling relationship; confidentiality and privacy; professional responsibility; relationships with other professionals; evaluation, assessment, and interpretation; supervision, training, and teaching; research and publication; distance counseling, technology, and social media; and resolving ethical issues. A brief description of some of these predominant realms follows.\n\nConfidentiality refers to the respect of a client's privacy. Any information that a client reveals during counseling is protected. The client's consent is required for the reveal of information to a third party. Laws of privileged communication within applicable states also further protect the privacy of clients. Where privileged communication is present, confidential information does not need to be disclosed in court without the client's permission. Confidentiality is crucial to create the safety, trust, and honesty required in an effective, beneficial counseling relationship. Outside of privileged communication, there are generally four instances in which confidential information may be released to a third party: if the client allows the counselor to do so with a signed release of information, if the client discloses or is suspected to be an imminent threat of safety or danger to self or others, if current abuse or the intent of abuse of another is disclosed, or if a court order or subpoena requires the release of client records or testimony of the counselor.\n\nThis concept of competence requires proof of minimum competency for a professional, while also striving to practice in an ideal manner. For each credential that a counselor earns, such as a degree and licensure, there are minimum prerequisites of performance that must be met. A counselor may also be competent or incompetent in different types of counseling, working with different populations, or specializing in different theoretical orientations. Competency also needs to be maintained over time and should be self-monitored. Counselors should continue to access and review current research, and continuing education credits can be earned through workshops, seminars, webinars, etc. When this ethical concept is not maintained, a counselor may be risking professional misconduct, and may even face trial for malpractice.\n\nInformed consent is typically addressed through a form at the beginning of a counseling relationship, and pertains to the client's right to be aware of the nature of that relationship and the counseling process itself. Informed consent should be present throughout the entire period that a client is receiving services. This information should be presented both in written form, and discussed verbally with the client. A professional disclosure statement is typically provided to the client, which should include but is not limited to: counselor credentials, issues of confidentiality, the use of tests and inventories, diagnosis, reports, billing, and therapeutic process,î.\n\nThere are multiple boundaries that could be crossed between a client and a counselor, including physical, psychological, emotional, and social boundaries. Some of these boundary lines may be blurry. For example, there are differing opinions on whether touch is ever appropriate between a counselor and their client. Sexual intercourse, however, is generally uniformly disagreed upon. Dual relationships, where a counselor holds two or more different roles within a client's life at the same time, are also typically avoided, as well as the acceptance of gifts of significant monetary value.\n\nFor a full copy of the 2014 ACA Code of Ethics, see the link Code of Ethics at: 2014 ACA Code of Ethics\n\nMany Community mental health (CMH) specialists operate under the holistic philosophy that in order to reach optimal health and wellness Mental health professionals must look not only at the individual but also at the interacting communities and environment that surrounds that individual. The principal philosophy is no longer removing the disordered person from normal family, social and community settings into a sheltered institutionalized environment but rather to a community-based treatment center for support and rehabilitation.\n\nImportant dates and figures such as Dorothea Dix in 1843 and the National Mental Health Act of 1946 brought attention to the living situations of the mentally ill and the need for financial funding and more appropriate programs. In 1963 the Community Mental Health Act provided federal funding for CMH services. Thanks to the development of available economic resources, a supply of mental health professionals and multidisciplinary team approaches mental health has been deinstitutionalized.\n\nCMH is now in the era of post deinstitutionalization. The rates of psychiatric patients treated in inpatient facilities have declined and the shift has turned to more cost-effective alternatives. New techniques and models are used to provide care for people that formerly would have been sent to in patient treatment.\n\nThe idea behind the least restrictive treatment environment is to match the treatment's intensity with the severity of the client's condition so that restrictions to client personal freedom are minimal. This has been achieved by decreasing the clients’ average lengths of stay in hospitals and emphasizing stabilization instead of intense therapy. Once stabilized, clients are released to the care of community-based agencies and practitioners for outpatient treatment plans. However, a phenomenon revolving door occurs when patients are admitted, stabilized, released and then readmitted many times over a short period. Strong communication networks between mental health providers and the hospital must be utilized to help with the revolving–door phenomenon.\n\nCase management models help clients coordinate their schedule while integrating various community services. One of the most comprehensive case management model approaches is the Assertive community treatment approach.\n\nIn the ACT approach, a team of professional counselors, social workers, nurses, rehabilitators and psychiatrists provide comprehensive, community-based treatment and support to clients. The team's caseload is small and the responsibility is shared among team members. Services may include medication delivery, rehabilitation, and behavioral training in basic adaptive living skills, problems of nonattendance and transportation needs. It also includes 24-hour emergency services, medication management, money management, and assistance with daily living .\n\nThis is the belief that mental health consumers should be able to develop control of treatment and end oppressive stigmas. Results of this movement include consumer-developed systems of care, self-help groups, consumer advocacy organizations and the recovery perspective.\n\nSupport groups like Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) have increased from around 50 in 1942 to well over 58,000 in 2012. Parents without Partners (PWP) started in 1957 with one group of two women and is now the world's largest nonprofit membership organization. Formed in 1976, the National Self-Help Clearinghouse now communicates information about the activities of more than 500,000 self-help groups that now exist in the United States.\n\nThe National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) is a self-help support group and advocacy organization that consists of over 1,000 local affiliates and 50 state organizations. NAMI advocates for increased funding for research, housing, jobs, rehabilitation, and suitable health insurance.\n\nThe rise of the recovery perspective in community mental health is changing the underlying philosophy of what is means to be mentally ill. The U.S. government's Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) defines recovery as “a journey of healing and transformation enabling a person with a mental health problem to live a meaningful life in a community of his or her choice with striving to achieve his or her full potential.” The ten fundamental components of recover philosophy are: 1) Self-Direction\", 2)\" Person-Centered\", 3) \"Empowerment\", 4) \"Holistic\", 5) \"Non-linear\", 6) \"Strength-based\", 7) \"Peer Support\", 8) \"Respect\", \n9) \"Responsibility\", and 10) \"Hope\".\n\nUnder the recovery consumers of mental health care are viewed as capable and responsible persons who can take charge and manage his or her condition. Wellness strategies are implemented in recovery work such as journaling, visiting friends, exercising, nutritious eating, praying, meditation, doing acts of kindness, and practicing gratitude. Consumers in recovery that offer service to their peers in mental health treatment are called Peer support specialist. They often help connect consumers with mental help professionals and are usually trained to counsel.\n\nMany health professionals argue that counseling is as much art as it is science. Though some might find science-based outcome studies to be not particularly helpful evidence-based treatments are sometimes mandated. This is because professional organizations, third party reimbursers and consumers want more attention given to quality control and accountability .\n\nEvidence based treatment is typically a study in which a particular treatment produce change, which was evident in randomized controlled trials, in comparison with another approach or not treatment at all. SAMHSA has developed the National Registry of Evidence-based Programs and Practices. This database provides summaries, target populations, types of outcomes achieved, costs, and expert ratings. Other Evidence-based practice studies and research are used in community counseling to ensure treatment is effective.\n\n"}
{"id": "9545577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9545577", "title": "Detroit Statler Hotel", "text": "Detroit Statler Hotel\n\nThe Detroit Statler Hotel (also known as the Detroit Hilton Hotel) was a building located at 1539 Washington Boulevard across from Grand Circus Park between the David Whitney Building and the Hotel Tuller in Downtown Detroit, Michigan. In addition to Washington Boulevard, the hotel also fronted Bagley Street and Park Avenue.\n\nThe hotel was designed for Statler Hotels by George B. Post and Louis Rorimer in the Georgian architectural style, with English Renaissance Revival roots evident. It consisted of 18 floors: sixteen above grade and two basement floors. Construction began on the original 800-room portion in 1914 and was completed in 1915.\n\nHarry Houdini stayed at the hotel in October 1926, during his last engagement at the nearby Garrick Theater.\n\nThe Detroit Statler became part of the Hilton Hotels chain in 1954 along with all other former Statler Hotels. Hilton proceeded to remodel and modernize the hotel's interior during the 1960s. In 1974, Hilton ceased their management, and the structure was renamed the Detroit Heritage Hotel until it was abandoned in 1975.\n\nAfter sitting vacant for 30 years, the structure was eventually demolished following approval by the Detroit Historic District Commission. Demolition of the building floor by floor began in August 2005 and was completed in time for the Super Bowl XL; the process took months due to the hotel's strong concrete structure. During the demolition process, a vacant four-story building once occupied by the Automobile Club of Michigan also known as the DAIIE (Detroit Automobile Club Inter-Insurance Exchange) building on a neighboring lot caught fire. The fire destroyed much of the structure's roof and upper floor. The cause of the blaze was determined to be hot metal material that had been dropped from the Statler Hotel onto the Automobile Club building's roof. The building's structure required the onsite treatment of 750,000 gallons of PCB-contaminated water following demolition.\nOn 26 March 2014, a 200-250 unit apartment building was announced to be built on the former site of the Statler Hotel. At the time of its proposal, this building would have been one of the first entirely newly constructed apartments in downtown Detroit since the early 1990s (excluding apartments built from converted offices). Detroit City Council gave the project a go ahead after approval The proposal is vastly under scale for its surroundings and in a time when development downtown is occurring at a pace not seen since the 1920s due to an increase in demand for downtown living. The property is owned by the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation and some critics have stated that the land should go to a developer that is capable of producing a larger, higher quality building in scale with the value of the property's location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1794797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1794797", "title": "Dynamic enterprise modeling", "text": "Dynamic enterprise modeling\n\nDynamic enterprise modeling (DEM) is an enterprise modeling approach developed by the Baan company, and used for the Baan enterprise resource planning system which aims \"to align and implement it in the organizational architecture of the end-using company\".\n\nAccording to Koning (2008), Baan introduced dynamic enterprise modelling in 1996 as a \"means for implementing the Baan ERP product. The modelling focused on a Petri net–based technique for business process modelling to which the Baan application units were to be linked. DEM also contains a supply-chain diagram tool for the logistic network of the company and of an enterprise function modelling diagram\".\n\nTo align a specific company with dynamic enterprise modeling, the organizational structure is blueprinted top-down from high-level business processes to low-level processes. This blueprint is used as a roadmap of the organization, that is compatible with the structural roadmap of the software package. Having both roadmaps, the software package and the organizational structure are alienable. The blueprint of an organizational structure in dynamic enterprise modeling is called a reference model. A reference model is the total view of visions, functions, organizational structures and processes, which together can be defined as a representative way of doing business in a certain organizational typology.\n\nThe DEM reference model consists of a set of underlying models that depict the organizational architecture in a top-down direction. The underlying models are:\n\n\nTogether these models are capable of depicting the total organizational structure and aspects that are necessary during the implementation of the dynamic enterprise modeling. The models can have differentiations, which are based on the typology of the organization (i.e.: engineer-to-order organizations require different model structures than assemble-to-order organizations. To elaborate on the way that the reference model is used to implement software and to keep track of the scope of implementation methods, the business control model and the business process model will be explained in detail.\n\nThe business control model exists of the business functions of the organization and their internal and external links. Basic features in the model are:\n\n\nNext to interaction between two business functions, interaction can also exist between objects that are not in the scope of the reference model. These objects can be external business functions and agents.\n\nAgents on the other hand are entities similar to business functions with the exception that they are external of the business (i.e.: customers and suppliers).\nSubroutines of processes can be modeled in the Business Control Model to take care of possible exceptions that can occur during the execution of a process (i.e.: delay handling in the delivery of goods).\n\nIn addition to business functions that consist of the main processes of the organization, management functions exist.\n\nHaving this reference, the main processes of the organization can be captured in the Business Control Model. The main functions of the organization are grouped in the business functions, which consist of the processes that are part of the specific business function. Interactions between the business functions are then depicted using the request-feedback loops.\n\nA business control model is constructed according to a set path.\n\nAfter creating the main business functions within the business control model, the several business functions are detailed out.\n\nAfter high-level detail definitions, the business functions are decomposed to lower-level detail definitions to make the business control model alienable to the lower models within the reference model, for this practice, mainly the Business Process Model. In the Business Process Model the processes are elaborated until the lowest level of detail. Given this level of detail, the Baan software functionality is then projected on the processes, depicted in the Business Process Model.\n\nThe modeling of processes in DEM, modeling the business process model is done using \"Petri net building blocks\". DEM uses 4 construction elements:\n\n\nThese 4 construction elements enables the modeling of DEM models. The modeling is due to a set collection of modeling constraints, guiding the modeling process in order to have similarly created models by different modelers. Control activities exist in different structures in order to set different possible routes for process flows. The used structures for control activities are:\n\nOR means one of the two starting job tokens can be used or both, XOR means only one of the tokens can be used to create the output job token.\n\nThe example below demonstrates the modeling of the concept of marriage and divorce using Petri net building blocks. \n\nUsing an embedded method brings the power that the method is designed to implement the software product that the method comes with. This suggests a less complicated usage of the method and more support possibilities.\nThe negative aspect of an embedded method obviously is that it can only be used for specific product software. Engineers and consultants, operating with several software products, could have more use of a general method, to have just one way of working.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46234009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46234009", "title": "Educator effectiveness", "text": "Educator effectiveness\n\nEducator effectiveness is a K-12 school system education policy initiative that measures the quality of an educator performance in terms of improving student learning. It describes a variety of methods, such as observations, student assessments, student work samples and examples of teacher work, that education leaders use to determine the effectiveness of a K-12 educator.\n\nThe drive for educator effectiveness programs stem from Race to the top where states were awarded points for meeting educational policies based on the teacher's effectiveness. This policy was the basis of the emergence of statewide educator effectiveness programs.\n\nEducator effectiveness programs vary from state to state. Typically, an educator effectiveness program describes a cycle of observations and assessments that apply to different groups of teachers during an academic year. New teachers are evaluated more frequently, and veteran teachers are evaluated across multiple year cycles. Evaluated teachers have multiple scheduled classroom observations and conferences with the evaluator in addition to unannounced classroom observations. A controversial aspect of The purpose of evaluations is to help educators determine what is effective in their practices and provides them a medium to reflect upon and change their practice to help teachers become more effective.\n\nEducator effectiveness is a method used in the K-12 school system that uses multiple measures of assessments including classroom observations, student work samples, assessment scores and teacher artifacts, to determine the impact a particular teacher has on student's learning outcomes. While schools have used teacher evaluation practices and policies for many years, the emergence of educator effectiveness policies combines these existing practices with rubrics and test scores to provide more robust perspectives on the work of teachers. Educator effectiveness initiatives often use descriptions of effective teaching practices, such as Charlotte Danielson's \"Framework for Teaching\", to organize teaching separate domains for assessment. Danielson's domains include: Planning and Preparation, Classroom Environment, Professional Responsibilities, and Instruction.\n\nTeacher evaluations have changed over time and have had different standards across the United States. Evaluation systems often have been comprised an administrator observing a teacher a couple times per year. In some locations, teacher observations were only done on a three-year or longer cycle. In the past, a Widget Effect, as described by The New Teacher Project has been established that has developed a culture where all teachers feel as though they deserve the highest marks on evaluations. Schools used to see their job as filling positions and thought that any teacher who was given a license was high quality, and thus scored them according to that thought process. Therefore, all teachers were getting scores that were good or great and no variation was able to be determined between any two teachers.\n\nToday, federal and state policies have encouraged school systems to design more comprehensive evaluation systems that rely on multiple measures of how a teacher performs by looking at items such as student performance gains, classroom observations, teacher reflections, content specific knowledge and student reflections. Some policy makers and researchers encourage the design of systems to identify and sort good and bad teachers; others are designed to provide meaningful feedback and professional development to teachers in order to enhance their skills.\n\nOverall, the purpose of educator effectiveness is to build the capacity for teachers to enhance their skills. The effective teachers have an effect on student's ability to have a higher level of conceptual understanding of a topic and have displayed the ability to think more abstractly than peers taught by less effective teachers. Quality teaching also has been identified as a key influence for positive learning outcomes for the diverse body of students in the classroom.\n\nAs of 2013, US schools United States had very little cohesiveness in their teacher effectiveness requirements and implementations. In 2013, 25 states required that student achievement is a big or the biggest part of teacher evaluations. Twenty-seven states required teacher evaluations be based on a variety of student assessments and work samples and 44 states required classroom observations to be put into teacher evaluations. Overall, 11 states require a statewide teacher evaluation system; 10 states gave a statewide evaluation model that districts can either do or decide to do a similar model. To date only a small handful of states have adopted policies connecting the performance of students to their teachers and the colleges where the teachers were trained.\n\nMany countries have national policies that decide what teacher evaluation systems that schools will have to follow. Some countries such as Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden provide annual feedback on teaching practices. Other countries, such as Norway and Iceland leave the decision about how the teacher evaluations systems will be done to be determined at a local level. The quality of teaching in these countries is compared to the curriculum they follow and with the school instructional plan. Finland does not use any standardized testing as a measure of teacher effectiveness. Singapore is another country that does not use test scores but rather focuses on how teachers work together as a main part of their evaluation system. Singapore also focuses heavily on professional development around evaluation, coaching, mentoring and collaborating with other educators with an overall goal of getting a high quality teaching staff.\n\nThere is significant debate in the U.S. about how to reward teachers for performance as measured by educator effectiveness policies. Some schools rewards teachers by paying them more based upon their student's test scores, which is linked to the Race to the Top funding in the United States. However, other reward systems are being created based on the idea that improving a teacher's capacity to learn and improve upon their practice will have a direct impact on student achievement. These schools increase pay for teachers who have a National Board Certification using National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, advanced degrees, engaging in professional development, mentor new colleagues and paying more for these qualified teachers in hard to staff schools \n\nThe connection of teacher effectiveness and merit pay varies in different countries. In Finland and Canada, they do not to use merit-pay approaches but encourage conversations between the evaluator and teacher about student progress and success. In contrast, Chinese and Singaporean teachers, get financial bonuses and promotions for high performance. High-performing countries have a strong system of professional and school-level accountability but look at success on things such as school improvement goals, professional contributions, and indicators of student well-being.\n\nMost educator effectiveness programs rely two kinds of data: observations of teaching practices and student outcomes data. There are four main sources of observational data collected by schools:\n\nThe new part of educator effectiveness policies is the integration of outcome data into the evaluation process. The biggest component of the outcome data is growth of student learning as measured by standardized tests. Most educator effectiveness programs rely on some form of value-added measures to determine student growth. Value-added measure use longitudinal measures of student achievement to estimate the growth in student learning that can be attributed to individual teachers. If the students of a specific teacher demonstrate growth in learning better than predicated on standardized tests, the teacher is said to be effective; if the students score below the predicted scores, the teacher is said to be ineffective. Parent and student surveys are another method of collecting data on teachers and their educational practices.\n\nMany argue that it is difficult to measure the effect that teachers have on student learning. Many teachers who are in the K-12 system, teach subjects that are not assessed on state mandated testing. In order to effectively implement an educator effectiveness system, some argue that states need to create different evaluation systems for the teachers who teach students in non-tested areas such as submitted portfolios of student work, lesson logs, video clips of them teaching and reflective commentaries on lessons.\n\nOthers argue about the methodology as some districts are using value added models to determine the effectiveness to teachers. They state that it is an unreliable measurement tool because the makeup of classes differ greatly from teacher to teacher and from year to year. Some say that it ends up penalizing teachers who traditionally do not score well on standardized assessments such as students who receive free and reduce lunch and students with disabilities. They state that this may cause the highly effective teachers to work at schools with a low disability rate and a middle to high socioeconomic status. There are different ways to calculate the value-added effect of teachers that changes depending on how they define value-added and what they use to calculate it. It typically does not account for the expectations put on students who go into a classroom reading below grade level and are expected to have a much higher growth rate than their peers. Through many research studies, it has shown that the estimates of teacher effectiveness were not through the same throughout different years or content areas such as reading and math and may be difficult to compare gains from tests from year to year when they don't measure the same content \n\nSome have commented that evaluators in states with teacher evaluation systems do not have through enough training. Furthermore, these evaluators often do not have to prove themselves as effective teachers themselves. As of 2013, only 13 states require a certification for their evaluators that require evaluators are effective teachers. Furthermore, often the same evaluator is observing students every time. In order to have high quality teacher feedback, some would argue that multiple perspectives by highly effective educators would create the dialogue and feedback that would help teachers to grow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48840827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48840827", "title": "Ernst Dahlström", "text": "Ernst Dahlström\n\nErnst Abraham Dahlström (26 March 1846 – 16 January 1924) was a Finnish businessman and philanthropist.\n\nDahlström inherited his father's position as manager of trading house C.M. Dahlström. His younger brother Magnus Dahlström joined in soon after. The brothers made significant donations to their home town Turku.\n\nDahlström worked as manager of Kymi Papermill in 1873–1904 and board member of the subsequent Kymin Oy. He developed the Finnish insurance sector and shipbuilding. Dahlström also had a significant role in development of Turku shipbuilding industry.\n\nDahlström studied in Behm German school in Viipuri and did his internship in Hackman & Co. in the same city. He returned in Turku in 1869 to work as bookkeeper in his father's company, trading house C.M. Dahlström. He got bourgeois rights in the following year.\n\nIn 1872 Dahlström took leadership of the trading house, after his father fell ill. The trading house had investments in industry and shipping, and under young Dahlström's leadership the trading house invested increasingly on industrial companies. His younger brother Magnus became a co-manager in 1881, after finishing his studies in Stuttgart. The brothers worked closely to each other and it is difficult to distinguish the originator of each project. Also their spouses were siblings: Ernst was married to 1853-born Rosina Sofia Julin in 1875; Magnus Dahlström married her younger sister Ellen Maria Julin. The father of the Julin sisters was consul John Julin.\n\nIn 1873 just 27-year-old Ernst Dahlström became the first manager of Kymi Papermill. Kymi papermill was the most important investment of the trading house. After the company merged with Voikkaa and Kuusankoski papermills in 1904, creating Kymin Oy, the trading house remained a major owner in the company and Dahlström continued as board member. The head office remained in Turku and a part of the time Dahlström worked at factory located in Kuusankoski.\n\nDahlström held management positions also in number of other companies, such as Akaa and Vartsala steam sawmills, Aura sugar factory, and Turku engineering and shipbuilding companies Åbo Mekaniska Verkstads, the subsequent Ab Vulcan and also W:m Crichton & C:o. He was a founding member of Åbo Aktiebank in 1896 and member of Bank of Finland discount committee. In 1905 the brothers founded steam shipping company Transito Ab which focused on timber and coal transportation. It was the first major cargo steam shipping company in Turku.\n\nThe Dahlström brothers participated in founding insurance companies Fennia and Verdandi in 1905 and two years later in Sampo. They worked in those for a short time in management positions.\n\nDahlström was member of the diet in 1885, 1888, 1891, 1897, 1899 and 1904–1905. He was city councillor in Turku in 1875–1894.\n\nThe brothers were theatre and art patrons and in the 1890s they started donating significant sums to their home city, Turku. In 1895 the brothers donated 150 000 marks for art museum building. The granite-made Turku Art Museum planned by Gustaf Nyström was built on Puolalanmäki and inaugurated in April 1904. In 1912 the brothers saved the Swedish-speaking theatre from financial trouble; the theatre was renamed Åbo Svenska Teater in 1919. Donations by Dahlström brothers had an important role in 1919 at founding Åbo Akademi, the Swedish speaking university of Turku.\n\nWhile the art museum and university were the most significant donations, the brothers also supported individual students and public health work. Their actions also inspired other donors.\n\nErnst and Rosina Dahlström had two sons and daughter: Carl-Johan Dahlström (1876–1935), Greta Dahlström (1877–1902) and Erik Abraham Dahlström (1879–1943).\n"}
{"id": "54423319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54423319", "title": "Francesca Cavallo", "text": "Francesca Cavallo\n\nFrancesca Cavallo is an Italian writer, entrepreneur and stage director. She is the co-creator of \"Good Night Stories for Rebel Girls\" series, which has broken records on the crowdfunding website Kickstarter for literary publications. Cavallo's career began in theater, managing a theater company, and in 2011 turned to the development of Timbuktu Labs with Elena Favilli, which published a children's magazine for iPads, also called Timbuktu.\n\nThe iPad magazine \"Timbuktu\" (produced by Timbuktu Labs) presented the news to children as a form of entertainment. The magazine utilized colorful pictures, easy-to-read language, and sound to appeal to children, and top down scrolling vs. the traditional page flipping style of a magazine.\n\nThe first volume of \"Good Night Stories for Rebel Girls\" was published in 2016, and has since been translated into over 30 languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "44838228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44838228", "title": "Grievance redressal", "text": "Grievance redressal\n\nGrievance Redressal is a management- and governance-related process used commonly in India. While the term \"Grievance Redressal\" primarily covers the receipt and processing of complaints from citizens and consumers, a wider definition includes actions taken on any issue raised by them to avail services more effectively.\n\nThe traditional approach to Grievance Redressal, which is handled through letters and complaint forms, has very little appeal and its usage rarely reflects the actual state of customer satisfaction or lack thereof. However, new Internet-based approaches used by the government and more by private organizations, such as Public grievance redressal (pgportal)- India, TripAdvisor, and ActPlease.com.\n\nGrievance Redressal mechanism is mandated in Government agencies and departments that are directly involved with serving citizens and organizations. Usually a Public Relations Officer (PRO) is designated with the role of receiving complaints and initiating corrective action, but this mechanism often fails on account of lack of authority vested in the PRO over officers of various capacities. The Government of India has made effort to systematize the nature of grievance redressal through legislation, being driven by civil society agitations under leadership of Anna Hazare and Arvind Kejriwal for enactment of the Jan Lokpal Bill into law. \n\nPrivate businesses and Non-Profits engaged in service delivery, such as hotels, restaurants, colleges, etc. often tend to set up their own mechanisms, such as Feedback forms and Contact Us pages. Such means to get direct feedback enable businesses to take corrective action in time. Governments also often accept the responsibility of Consumer protection from private organizations through Legislation as well as setting up Consumer Courts and Organizations for Dispute Resolution. Such consumer courts pursue quick action for redress, while maintaining affordability and ease to the consumer.\n\nGrievance Redressal typically covers the following types of complaints:\n\nWider definition of grievance redressal covers:\n\nOrganizations define their own process flows for grievance redressal. These are rarely made known to the public in case of private businesses; governments and non-profits usually share voluntarily or by mandate the hierarchy of officers responsible for taking corrective action. Some organizations maintain a custom-developed ticketing software, while others count on SaaS Portals such as ActPlease.com. Feedback Portals such as TripAdvisor and Yelp are driven by consumers, and organizations / businesses have the option to join and participate. Depending on the desire to correct as well as level of transparency of the organization, grievance redressal flow can include the following steps:\n\nCustomers convey their grievance to the organization through feedback forms, letters, registered communications, emails, etc. These inputs may be submitted by mail, over the Internet, or in person.\n\nCustomers are often reluctant to report grievances that target individual executives of the organization, especially those who may influence their future interactions or have the potential to take vengeance. Under such conditions, the organization needs to assure the customer that her identity will be hidden from executives, and preferably from everyone. This, however, opens the potential problem of deceitful negative inputs purposefully targeted against specific executives, as the people reporting are kept anonymous.\n\nFeedback forms on website are prone to spam submissions. There are cases when employees themselves submit feedback - positive for their professional gain, and negative if targeting colleagues. Some service centers make employees sign blank feedback forms to create positive statistics. Such situations can be prevented by seeking verification of identity of customers. This is especially possible on online setups, such as ActPlease.com, which uses SMS to verify the authenticity of the mobile number of reporter. Basic tools such as Captcha can prevent automatic spammers. Mass submission of false feedback becomes less likely and easy to detect in case of paper-based submission.\n\nCustomers tend to develop much greater confidence in the grievance and feedback mechanism if they are given a formal acknowledgement. The acknowledgement could be by SMS and Email, as used by ActPlease.com, or skimply by publicly posting their message on the appropriate forum, such as TripAdvisor. Ticketing Systems such as osTicket and Fresh Desk, as well as SaaS systems such as ActPlease respond with acknowledgements with unique tracking numbers. These may be used by customers to check status of action taken on their complaint.\n\nPaper-based feedback as well as standard feedback forms on websites usually forward inputs to a single officer or email address. This naturally causes scope for delay or failure to reach the right persons. However, smarter ticketing systems sort grievances based on their classification, and then redirect each to their relevant executive(s) instantly.\n\nSmart Grievance Portals such as ActPlease expect organizations to configure typical action time for each type of complaint, as well as set up the hierarchy for escalation. When an executive fails to take corrective action in time, the matter is promoted to the officer next in line in seniority.\n\nComputerized and web-based systems have an advantage over paper-based systems as they can alert the reporter immediately upon completion of action, as marked by the executive in charge.\n\nCustomer may certify, if applicable and asked, whether the corrective action taken on their grievance satisfies them or is not substantial enough. Should it not be, the complaint may be marked as pending again, or be forwarded to a more senior officer in escalated form.\n\nThe effectiveness of implementation of a grievance redressal mechanism can be calculated with the following parameters:\n\nTraditional Grievance Redressal mechanisms tend to fail, or are very ineffective, on account of some of these causes:\n\nThese are most popular and usually used by consumer service businesses, such as hotels and restaurants. They are less likely to be effective, as there is reduced assurance of their reaching the decision-making authorities. These also usually do not give any formal confirmation or tracking number to the complainant. Possibility of fake submissions also remains. Customers therefore have less confidence on such forms. Confidence can be strengthened if a central call center sends an acknowledgement of receipt of such feedback. Another possible reinforcement may be done by taking digitized input, which can be processed using scantron machines.\n\nWebsites of organizations generally carry the Contact Us page, which lists the email and phone numbers to use to submit any concerns. Many websites also provide a form to fill that automatically gets sent by email, with confirmation to the reporter.\n\nWebsites such as Yelp and TripAdvisor allow customers to post grievances and recommendations about organizations from personal experience. Designated representatives of these organizations have the option to respond to such communications, though these responses are often just standard text. The feedback also tends to be subjective and unlikely to be auto-sorted and forwarded for action.\n\nOrganizations can subscribe to grievance redressal portals such as ActPlease.com to invite their customers to report their grievances and request action. As such portals are configured by the organizations themselves, they can ensure that complaints are directed properly. ActPlease, being a third party site, handles anonymity of the reporter from the organization when necessary, while ensuring the genuine nature of the person, through SMS verification. Such SaaS Portals are easy to use and easily affordable for all organizations including SMEs, while empowering them with the latest tools such as Mobile Apps and Customized Websites.\n\nLarge organizations involved in customer service set up their own ticketing systems with similar features as the SaaS portals, but with greater customization in the processing of grievances. Examples of such organizations are Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Torrent Power. Large-scale ERP software, such as SAP and Genie also provide facility for setting up ticketed grievance redressal and customer support systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "18622373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18622373", "title": "Henry Fourdrinier", "text": "Henry Fourdrinier\n\nHenry Fourdrinier (11 February 1766 – 3 September 1854) was a British paper-making entrepreneur.\n\nHe was born in 1766, the son of a paper maker and stationer, and grandson of the engraver Paul Fourdrinier, 1698-1758, sometimes mistakenly called Pierre Fourdrinier. With his brother, Sealy, he commissioned the development of the Fourdrinier machine, a papermaking machine that produced continuous rolls of paper. The machine is an industrialised version of the historical hand paper-making method, which could not satisfy the demands of developing modern society for large quantities of printing and writing materials. \n\nA patent was granted on 24 July 1806, for a machine that could make a long continuous web of paper. This had the dual advantage of considerably higher productivity plus production in roll form, for applications such as wallpaper printing. The range of cut paper sizes was also extended as it was not limited by the frame or deckle size of hand made paper.\n\nThe invention cost £60000, and caused the brothers to go bankrupt. Due to various laws, it was difficult to protect the patent on the machine, and the new system was widely adopted but with no benefit to the inventors. \n\nIn 1814, two machines were made in Peterhof, Russia, by order of the Russian emperor on the condition £700 would be paid to Fourdrinier every year for ten years — but, despite petitioning Tsar Nicholas, no money was ever paid. In 1839, a petition was brought before parliament, and in 1840, £7000 was paid to Fourdrinier and his family.\n\nFourdrinier died in 1854, at the age of 88.\n\n"}
{"id": "3431107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3431107", "title": "Juan Carlos Lectoure", "text": "Juan Carlos Lectoure\n\nJuan Carlos Lectoure (June 10, 1936March 2, 2002), nicknamed \"Tito\", was an Argentine businessman, mainly involved in boxing events and former owner of Buenos Aires's Luna Park stadium.\n\nHe was born and raised in the Balvanera section of Buenos Aires, and at the age of 14, took up boxing at the Buenos Aires Gymnastics and Fencing Club; an injury, however, resulted in his mother's insistence that he abandon the pastime.\n\nThe Lectoures had been partners in the Luna Park coliseum since 1941, and he inherited the lucrative business from his father, who died in 1950. Mentored by Juan Manuel Morales, Lectoure took control of the venue at age 20, and during the era from 1956 to 2000, well-known figures in Argentine boxing, such as Horacio Accavallo, Ringo Bonavena, Pedro Décima, Víctor Galíndez, Nicolino Locche, Carlos Monzón, Pascual Pérez and Juan Roldán all either debuted or fought title bouts promoted by Lectoure at Luna Park. The venue was also well known for its variety of music recitals, hosting musicians from Argentine tango bandoneonist Aníbal Troilo to the Godfather of Soul, James Brown.\n\nLectoure later promoted boxing in Miami, Florida.\n\nA chain smoker until 1982, Lectoure developed heart disease and underwent four bypasses in 1990, performed by noted cardiac specialist Dr. René Favaloro. He died in 2002, at age 65.\n"}
{"id": "8075228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8075228", "title": "Julio Ramos", "text": "Julio Ramos\n\nJulio A. Ramos (4 February 1935 in Buenos Aires – 19 November 2006 in Buenos Aires) was an Argentinian journalist and businessman. On 9 December 1976 he founded \"Ámbito Financiero\", a newspaper specializing in finance and economy that was later expanded to cater to a wider audience.\n\nRamos received a degree in Economics from the University of Buenos Aires and worked as a journalist for \"Noticias Gráficas\", \"La Nación\" and \"La Opinión\", among other media. He was a firm believer in free market liberalism. In 1985, Ramos ran unsuccessfully for the Deputy Chamber of the Buenos Aires Province in a center-right ticket. He also directed the Inter American Press Association from 1986 to 1989.\n\nRamos married twice and had five children, two of whom preceded him in death (one was electrocuted, and the other died in a car accident less than a month later). He had a personal friendship with former president Carlos Menem. He also wrote the nonfiction books \"Los cerrojos a la prensa\" (\"Locks on the Press\", 1993) and \"El periodismo atrasado\" (\"Set-back Journalism\", 1996).\n\nHe died of leukemia in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "46577252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46577252", "title": "Kentaro Suda", "text": "Kentaro Suda\n\nSuda was born in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia to a Japanese father and a Malaysian-Chinese mother in 1985. \nHe spent his childhood in Jakarta, Indonesia and settled in Japan when he was 10.<br>\nWhen he was 20, he woke up to the fact that his life is not indefinite and that death is inevitable. That inspired him to create something whereby he could leave his mark on the world.<br>\nHe dropped out of college at the age of 21 and established FREEPLUS Inc. a year later. <br>\nIn 2010, he entered the Japan Inbound tourist market and established a subsidiary in Shanghai.<br>\nHe awarded as an Entrepreneur of the Year Japan finalist in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "11762438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11762438", "title": "Kizhaparayar", "text": "Kizhaparayar\n\nKizhaparayar is a small village in Kerala state, India. It is part of the Meenachil Panchayat in Kottayam district. The village situated on the banks of the river Meenachil. There is no traces when the first settlement came to this village. It is a sparsely populated place. Kizharayar borders with Edamattom in the South, Palakkadu in North, Pala in the west. The other side of the river meenchil is Bharananganam.\n\nThe major agriculture is rubber. There are also Coconuts and Tapioca cultivations. The other agricultural products include Cocoa and Arcanut.There are few small paddy fields also.\nThe main income of the people comes from Rubber plantations and related jobs.\n\nThere is no major business activities in and around kizhaparayar.\n\nPeople belongs to 2 religious faiths - Roman Catholics (Syrian Christians) and Hinduism. The local parish is St. Gregorios Church which is situated at the center of the village. A Convent, Government Clinic, Co-operative bank and few shops in the vicinity of the church forms the small township. There is a small latex processing unit also running which allows the rubber owners to sell latex.\nThere are 2 temples also in Kizhaparayar.\n\nThe nearest town is Pala which is about 4 km from Kizhaparayar.\n"}
{"id": "16567431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16567431", "title": "KnowledgeBench", "text": "KnowledgeBench\n\nKnowledgeBench is a proprietary software suite which is used in the development of new products such as pharmaceuticals, food and drink, speciality chemicals, paint, oil, and plastics. It has modules to support formulation, management and reporting, expert systems, knowledge management, and Product Lifecycle Management. The software is used by companies including AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline and Wrigley. It is built using methods from the field of artificial intelligence that include rule based systems and case based reasoning.\n\nIn 2005 KnowledgeBench acquired the rights to the Formulogic Expert Systems Product from Logica. This is an expert system suite originally known as PFES (Product Formulation Expert System) which was developed by Logica under the Government sponsored Alvey Programme in 1989.\n\nThe author is KnowledgeBench Ltd, which was founded in August 2003 by Jason Smith, the Chief Executive and Denis Howlett, the Chief Technical Officer and product architect.\n\nA KnowledgeBench application consists of three parts:\n\nKnowledgeBench is compatible with industry standard Java application server platforms, including Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic Server, Jetty and other Java EE platforms. The web front end can be hosted by the application server or fronted by an Apache web server or Microsoft's IIS web server.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "160355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160355", "title": "Late capitalism", "text": "Late capitalism\n\n\"Late capitalism\" is a term used to refer to capitalism from about 1945 onwards, with the implication that it is due to come to an end. This period includes the era termed the golden age of capitalism.\n\nThe American literary critic and cultural theorist Frederic Jameson considered Rudolf Hilferding's term \"latest capitalism\" (\"jüngster Kapitalismus\") a more prudent and less prophetic-seeming one than \"late capitalism\", although he repeatedly deployed the latter term in his writings. French philosopher Jacques Derrida favoured \"neo-capitalism\" over \"post-\" or \"late-capitalism\".\n\nThe term \"late capitalism\" was first used by Werner Sombart in his 1902 magnum opus \"Der Moderne Kapitalismus\"; Sombart divided capitalism into three stages: early capitalism; high capitalism, the heyday of capitalism; and late capitalism. The term began to be used by socialists in Europe towards the end of the 1930s and in the 1940s, when many economists believed capitalism was doomed. At the end of World War II, many economists, including Joseph Schumpeter and Paul Samuelson, believed the end of capitalism could well be nigh, in that the economic problems might be insurmountable.\n\nThe term was used in the 1960s, particularly in Germany and Austria, among others by Western Marxists writing in the tradition of the Frankfurt School and Austromarxism. Postwar German sociologists needed a term to describe contemporary society. Theodor Adorno preferred \"late capitalism\" over \"industrial society,\" which was the theme of the 16th Congress of German Sociologists in 1968. In 1971, Leo Kofler published a book called \"Technologische Rationalität im Spätkapitalismus\" (Technological Rationality in Late Capitalism). Claus Offe published his essay \"Spätkapitalismus - Versuch einer Begriffsbestimmung\" (Late capitalism - attempt at a conceptual definition) in 1972. And in 1973, Jürgen Habermas published his \"Legitimationsprobleme im Spätkapitalismus\" (Legitimacy problems in late capitalism). Herbert Marcuse also accepted the term.\n\n'Private property' is a fundamental concept within the economic system of capitalism and neoclassical economics.\nVladimir Lenin famously declared that there are no \"absolutely hopeless situations\" for capitalism. This, however, does not deter critics of the system, who point to its relative newness, the rapid collapse of prior orders of much greater duration, the effects of modern communications on class consciousness, and a general perceived inadequacy of its ability to deal with various crises of its own making and other long term structural problems.\n\nImmanuel Wallerstein believes that capitalism may be in the process of being replaced by another world system.\n\nOthers however see late capitalism in the 21st century as very much in active development; and characterised by a new mix of high-tech advances, the concentration of (speculative) financial capital, and Post-Fordism—all producing a backdrop of increasing differentiation in wealth/security between the better off and the worse off and in between.\n\nAccording to the Marxist economist Ernest Mandel, who popularised the term with his 1972 PhD dissertation, late-stage capitalism will be dominated by the machinations—or perhaps better, fluidities—of financial capital; and also by the increasing commodification and industrialisation of ever more inclusive sectors of human life. Mandel was insistent that \"Far from representing a 'post-industrial society', late capitalism thus constitutes \"generalized universal industrialization\" for the first time in history\". Up to the mid-1960s, Mandel preferred to use the term \"neo-capitalism\", which was most often used by intellectuals in Belgium and France around that time, such as Leo Michielsen and Andre Gorz.\n\nIn his major work \"Late Capitalism\", Mandel argues for three periods in the development of the capitalist mode of production. The first is \"freely competitive capitalism\", which occurred from 1700 to 1850 and is characterized largely by the growth of industrial capital in domestic markets. Secondly there is the phase of \"monopoly capitalism\", which lasted until approximately 1940, and is characterized by the imperialistic development of international markets as well as the exploitation of colonial territories. Finally there is the epoch of \"late capitalism\" emerging out of the Second World War, which has as its dominant features the multinational corporation, globalized markets and labor, mass consumption, and the space of liquid multinational flows of capital.\n\nIn the tradition of the classical Marxists, Mandel tried to characterize the nature of the modern epoch as a whole, with reference to the main laws of motion of capitalism specified by Marx. Mandel's aim was to explain the unexpected revival of capitalism after World War II, contrary to leftist prognostications, and the long economic boom which showed the fastest economic growth ever seen in human history. His work has produced a new interest in the theory of long waves in economic development.\n\nJameson uses Mandel's third stage designation as the point of departure for his widely cited \"Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism\". Jameson argues that this postmodernity involves an emergence of a \"cultural dominant\", or mode of cultural production, which differs markedly in its various manifestations (developments in literature, film, fine art, video, social theory, etc.) from those of its predecessor, referred to collectively and broadly as Modernism, particularly in its treatment of \"subject position\", temporality and narrative. For Jameson, \"every position on postmodernism today—whether apologia or stigmatization—is also...\"necessarily\" an implicitly or explicitly political stance on the nature of multinational capitalism today\". A section of Jameson's analysis has been reproduced on the Marxists Internet Archive.\n\nJameson (1996) saw the current, \"third\" moment of capitalist evolution as involving a new and previously unparalleled global reach—whether it was conceptualised as multinational or as informational capitalism; but expressed doubts as to whether it yet represented what Marx had originally foreseen as the final stage of capitalism, with the universal commodification of the world market.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1339298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1339298", "title": "Legendz", "text": "Legendz\n\nThe Legendz anime moves away from the Pokémon-esque \"gotta catch em all\" theme and monster training aspects and deals more with the overall background of the monster characters and their story. The Legendz anime opens with the discovery of the \"Soul Dolls\" which contain legendary creatures of incredible power within them. The Dark Wiz company (DWC) wants access to all of them for unknown reasons, but four of the Soul Dolls go missing. The majority of the anime takes place in Brooklyn, New York City, with the Brooklyn Bridge as a much-featured landmark.\n\nThe Legendz manga was written by Rin Hirai and illustrated by Makoto Haruno. The manga was originally published in Shueisha's \"Monthly Shonen Jump\" from 2003 – 2005. The series was translated and adapted into English by Viz Media and released in four volumes with the first release in March 2005.\n\nThe story is about Ken Kazaki, a boy who attends Ryudo Elementary School. Together with Shiron, his faithful Windragon, fights with other people who like him breed monsters. Ken later participates in the Legendz Carnival.\n\nThe anime was directed by Akitaro Daichi with character designs by Nagisa Miyazaki. The animation was produced by Studio Gallop. The sound director was Kazuya Tanaka. The anime had only one opening theme, by Kyoko. The two ending themes are by Brenda Vaughn, from episode 1 through 37 and another version performed by Linda Yamamoto from 38-49. The anime ran on Fuji TV and Animax in Japan. The final episode aired on Fuji TV on March 27, 2005.\n\n is a Game Boy Advance game that was produced by Bandai Co., Ltd. and released on July 29, 2004. The video game includes a unique accessory to \"Reborn\" the Legendz with a link cable connected to the \"Soul Doll\". Using the dedicated adapter, the Legendz can adventure automatically and the player can view these events as flashbacks. The game also provided growth of the Legendz through sharing with other players.\n\nThe video game, is an action game for the PlayStation 2, originally released on December 16, 2004. Produced by Bandai Co., Ltd., it has a CERO rating for \"All ages\" and supports two player play. The game features more than 60 Legendz that the player uses to battle.\n\nThe third Legendz game to be released is , a Game Boy Advance game that was produced by Bandai Co., Ltd. and released on February 17, 2005. The game requires the \"Soul Doll\" adapter, two versions were sold; one for players who already have the \"Legendz: Island of Ordeal\" and one which included the Soul Doll adapter. The game included the ability to \"rewrite the IC data\" to allow the player to create their own Legendz.\n\n\"\" makes note of the similarities to \"Dragon Drive\" in the introduction of Shu and Shiron. It also notes the similarities to \"Pokémon\" except with dragons and director Daichi's \"stylistic similarities\" to \"Grrl Power\".\nThe manga review compendium \"Manga: The Complete Guide\" praised the \"elaborate universe\" and \"quirky artwork\", but noted that the creatures were \"bland\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20168651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20168651", "title": "Los Angeles Flower District", "text": "Los Angeles Flower District\n\nThe Flower District of Downtown Los Angeles is a six block floral marketplace, consisting of nearly 200 wholesale flower dealers, located within the LA Fashion District. What started almost 100 years ago as a small flower mart near Santa Monica, California, has grown into the United States' largest wholesale flower district in its current downtown location. The Market is open very early in the morning, Monday - Saturday, and closes in the early afternoon. Every commercially available cut flower can be purchased there.\n\nIn the early 1900s, Los Angeles area flower farmers drove their horse-drawn wagons to the downtown Los Angeles produce market to sell their flowers. In 1905, James Vawter, a prominent Santa Monica grower of carnations, established on Spring Street the first dedicated flower market. By 1910, the local Japanese American farmers (54 Issei, first generation Japanese) had organized a flower market, which they incorporated in January 1912. It became known as the Southern California Flower Market and was located for a time at 421 Wall Street. \n\nWithin a few years after, the European immigrants, who could not participate in the Japanese-American flower market, began to come together to offer their locally grown flowers for sale to florists and nursery owners. They organized around 1917 and incorporated in January 1921 as the American Florists' Exchange dba Los Angeles Flower Market. Their first market was on Winston Street between Fourth and Fifth streets.\n\nEventually, both markets relocated to larger quarters in the 700 block of South Wall Street in Los Angeles, where they operate today as the core of the country's largest flower district. Since those early days, both markets have expanded and modernized and organized together as the Los Angeles Flower District. Several storefront businesses on Wall Street and San Julian Street are also included in the District. The District offers a \"badge program\" for member florists, event planners and others who qualify to purchase goods at wholesale prices which in 2009 included some 4,500 members.\n\nIn the 1990s and early 2000s, dozens of small flower malls and shops came downtown to do business near the renowned, historic Los Angeles Flower District; they consider themselves part of the District. Today, the general public shops throughout the area for its flowers and floral supply products alongside the retail florists and wedding and event planners. The District stretches from San Pedro Street west to Maple Street, from Seventh Street south to Ninth Street. But the two historic, major markets built the strong foundation of trust and quality through tenant-wholesalers who have supplied and shipped fresh flowers to customers across America for almost 100 years. \n\nA prominent area to check out here is the California Flower Mall. The California Flower Mall is in the heart of the Los Angeles, Flower District. Inside you will find more than of gorgeous fresh cut flowers and potted plants. More than 50 vendors provide floral industry professionals and the general public with exotic blooms from all corners of the earth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40899833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40899833", "title": "Margaret Phipps Boegner", "text": "Margaret Phipps Boegner\n\nMargaret Phipps Boegner (November 17, 1906 – September 16, 2006) (a.k.a. \"Peggy\") was an American heiress and philanthropist.\n\nMargaret Helen Phipps was born on November 17, 1906. Her father was John Shaffer Phipps (1874–1958) and her mother, Margarita Celia Grace (1876-1957). She had three brothers, John H. H. Phipps, Michael Grace Phipps (1910–1973) and Hubert Beaumont Phipps (1906–1969). Her paternal grandfather was Henry Phipps Jr. (1839–1930) and her maternal grandfather was Michael P. Grace (1842-1920). She grew up at Old Westbury Gardens in Old Westbury, New York.\n\nAfter her parents' deaths in 1957 and 1958, she developed the Old Westbury Gardens and decided to open her family residence to the public. She became Founder and Chairman of the Old Westbury Gardens non-profit organization.\n\nShe was featured in an episode of \"America's Castles\".\n\nShe married J. Gordon Douglas Jr. in 1930. They had a son and a daughter:\n\nThey divorced in 1947.\n\nIn 1951, she married Etienne Boegner, a French businessman and diplomat, and the son of Marc Boegner (1881-1970), a prominent member of the French Resistance and the first President of the Protestant Federation of France. He died in 1985.\n\nShe died in 2006. On June 30, 2010, some of her jewels were sold in an auction house in East Moriches, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "44420499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44420499", "title": "Mariann Jelinek", "text": "Mariann Jelinek\n\nMariann Jelinek is an American organizational theorist, and Emeritus Professor of Strategy at the College of William & Mary, considered an icon for her contributions in the field of management of technology and innovation.\n\nBorn in 1942, in 1960 Jelinek started to study English, French, Modern European History at the University of California, Berkeley, where she received her A.B. in 1967, her M.A. in English Literature in 1968 and her Ph.D. in English Literature in 1973. In 1977 she obtained his D.B.A. in Administrative Systems from Harvard Business School with the thesis, entitled \"Institutionalizing innovation.\"\n\nJelinek started her academic career with appointments at the Tuck School of Business, the McGill University, and the University at Albany, SUNY. In 1984 she was appointed Professor at the Case Western Reserve University, and in 1989 moved to the College of William & Mary, where she was Professor of Strategy for 22 years. Since 2001 she is Fellow at the Center for Innovation Management Studies (CIMS) at the North Carolina State University, becoming Academic Fellow in 2002. In the years 2007-2010 she was also Visiting Research Scholar at the Eindhoven University of Technology in The Netherlands, and was Visiting Research Scholar at the University of Melbourne in Australia.\n\nMariann Jelinek was married to the American organizational theorist Joseph A. Litterer (1926-1995).\n\nJelinek's research interests are in the fields of management of technology and innovation, and organizational change, specifically the leveraging information for strategic advantage.\n\n\nArticles, a selection: \n\n"}
{"id": "34501941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34501941", "title": "Mary Semans", "text": "Mary Semans\n\nMary Duke Biddle Trent Semans (February 21, 1920 – January 25, 2012) was an American heiress, activist, politician, and philanthropist. She was the granddaughter of Benjamin N. Duke and the great-granddaughter of Washington Duke, both tobacco and energy tycoons who helped start Duke University. Semans is remembered for her support and work towards promoting the arts and humanities through various philanthropic entities.\n\nMary Duke Biddle was born in 1920 in New York City to Mary Lillian Duke Biddle and Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, Jr., and she lived a comfortable early life as the daughter of wealthy and prominent parents. Her mother was an aspiring opera singer and her father a retired World War I captain and a US ambassador. As a girl she learned to play the piano and attended the Hewitt School in New York. At the age of fourteen, her parents divorced and she moved to Durham, North Carolina to live with her grandmother.\n\nIn 1935 she enrolled at Duke's Women's College where she met Josiah Charles Trent, a then medical student who eventually became the chief of Duke Hospital's Division of Thoracic Surgery. Semans and Trent married in 1938 and together they had four daughters. The next year, Semans graduated from Duke, receiving a degree in Art History. However, just nine years later in 1948, Trent died of lymphoma, leaving Mary a widow with four girls.\n\nPushed by her mother and with the support of her childhood governess, Semans went back to Duke University as a student for three more semesters. While back at Duke, she met James Hustead Semans, a urologic surgeon visiting from Atlanta. Five years later Mary remarried to James, who that year joined Duke's medical faculty. Together they had three children.\n\nLater in life Semans would be known for her support of the arts, a love for which she claimed to have had her entire life.\n\nGrowing up in New York City, Semans listened daily to her mother's opera singing and took private piano and dance lessons of her own. This exposure to music, along with frequent trips with her governess to opera houses, theatres, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art gave Semans an appreciation for art at an early age. While at one point she considered becoming a professional pianist, Semans stopped playing in college, a decision she said she later regretted. In an interview with North Carolina public television, Semans said that her love of the arts in combination with the Carolina area's lack of support for them inspired much of her philanthropic work.\n\nFor some time, Mary Duke Semans played an active role in the Durham City Government, although she never served in a post higher than a local office. In 1951 she ran alongside of Kathrine Everett for seats on the city council. They were both elected and together became the first two women ever on the board.\n\nFrom 1953-55 she then served as Durham's mayor pro tempore, again Durham's first woman elected to such a post. While in office, she spent much of her time pushing for civil rights, funding for the arts, and affordable housing and healthcare.\n\nSemans created and supported many institutions at Duke University, in her hometown Durham, and in the larger State of North Carolina. Through these institutions Semans spent most of her life funding and promoting education, arts, and human rights in general.\n\nMary Semans financially supported many projects at her alma mater Duke University throughout her life. She spent many years as chair of the Mary Duke Biddle Foundation, started by and named after her mother, and she served 45 years as a trustee of The Duke Endowment. In 1982 she became the Endowment's first female chair, a position she retained until 2001. Through her position she started the Josiah Charles Trent Memorial Foundation, the Josiah Charles Trent Collection of the History of Medicine, and the Mary Duke Biddle Scholarship.\n\nThese projects were named after Josiah Trent, Semans's first husband, and Mary Duke Biddle, Semans's mother. She was also instrumental in the creation of the Duke University Museum of Art (later the Nasher Museum) and helped start Duke's Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies.\n\nGrowing up surrounded by the arts but finding herself in a city and area lacking them, Mary Semans and her husband concentrated much of their philanthropic energy towards supporting the arts. In 1956 Semans' mother, Mary Duke Biddle, started the Mary Duke Biddle Foundation, and the next year Semans became trustee. A few years later in 1960, Mary Duke Biddle died and Dr. and Mrs. Semans became chairman and vice-chairwoman of the foundation. Through membership on this board they helped support many arts and cultural programs in New York City, the Carolinas, and Duke University.\n\nThe first of these programs, started in 1964 and named after Dr. Semans' parents, was an art collection at Duke University. Later in the 1960s Semans and her husband then helped start the University of North Carolina School of the Arts in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. At the time, the NC School of the Arts was the first publicly funded art school in North Carolina.\n\nIn 1982, the same year Semans became President of the Duke Endowment, she and her husband established another two foundations but in their own names. The first, the Mary DBT Foundation, was founded as a general-purpose foundation for applicants, often artists, who couldn't find funding for projects elsewhere. The second, the Duke-Semans Fine Arts Foundation, was created very specifically to send artwork on tour to places that would otherwise never receive any. Of this second foundation, Mary Semans was the treasurer and Dr. Semans the President.\n\nLater in life, at age 77, one of Semans' last projects was the creation of the Semans Art Fund at the North Carolina School of the Arts. Through this foundation Semans could support individual NCSA students in their artistic endeavors, including student funding for research, summer tuition, performances, and special projects. Semans later said that of all her projects, the Semans Art Fund was closest to her heart. She said that like the students, she and her husband \"needed to express [them]selves,\" and being able to help the students in their endeavors fulfilled that need.\n\nThough from a sheltered, upper-class background, Semans was known throughout her life as both a political and personal advocate for social rights. In an interview, she claimed to have first entered her city's political scene after attending a precinct meeting and seeing a racial division in a decision that would help Durham African Americans register to vote. Her involvement in that meeting led her to run for the City Council and eventually as Mayor of Durham on a platform of black voter registration. Semans also served for 28 years as a trustee of Lincoln Community Hospital, a hospital started in 1901 by her family to serve Durham's African-American population.\n\nMary Duke Semans' family along the Duke lineage was famous for its wealth and philanthropy before Mary was born, starting a tradition she continued and influencing much of her life's work.\n\nThe wealth of the Dukes first came into being through Washington Duke and the tobacco industry. Returning from the Civil War, Duke began traveling and selling tobacco from a wagon, and in 1874 he moved to Durham, NC with his family to expand his business and start W. Duke, Sons & Company.\n\nFacing competition from other tobacco manufacturers, the youngest of Duke's sons, James B. Duke, convinced his father to buy machines to make ready-made cigarettes, and within five years the W. Duke, Sons & Company became the largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the United States. Under the direction of James Duke it then merged with four other manufacturers to become the multinational American Tobacco Company. Later in 1905, James Duke worked with his brothers to create a second empire in hydroelectric power as an outgrowth of Duke investments in North Carolina's booming textile industry. They poured millions of dollars into hydroelectric infrastructure of the Carolinas, creating the Southern Power Company and what is now the United States' largest electric power holding company, the Duke Power Company.\n\nAs the Dukes made money, they somewhat unusually for the time began to give much of their money to charitable causes. Washington Duke first came to philanthropy through the Methodist church, although he was influenced by the larger Social Gospel movement and had interest in quieting critics of his tobacco trust. The Duke family was involved in Methodist churches around Durham before they ever lived in the city, and over time much Duke money was spent on Methodist causes and the creation of Methodist churches. The biggest of these donations, encouraged mostly by Benjamin Duke, was $85,000 to Trinity College of Randolph County in effort to move it to Durham.\n\nIn 1896, the Dukes gave Trinity College an additional $100,000 on the basis of admitting women, and accepting the offer, Trinity College received similar amounts in years following. In 1924, James B. Duke, the youngest son of Washington Duke, supported the vision of the then Trinity College President Dr. William Few and created the Duke Endowment with $40 million. The Duke Endowment then incorporated Trinity College into Duke University, named after James's father. Later in her life, Mary Duke Semans would spend much time as the chairwoman of this still-existing Duke Endowment.\n\nSemans' family, deeply connected to Duke University and philanthropy, greatly influenced what would become her own legacy. Starting with Washington Duke and continuing down to Semans' mother, the Duke's wealth and connections to Durham and North Carolina prompted them to spend much time and money giving to various causes. This history was not lost on Semans as she expounded upon their efforts: continuing Duke support of Duke University and concentrating especially on the arts.\n\nSemans also claimed that what first prompted her altruistic behavior was her experience in the Great Depression. While she and her family were not greatly affected, it was then when she first gained knowledge of others' terrible needs, leading her to believe that those of affluence have a responsibility to give.\n\nSemans earned much recognition for her work. By the end of her life she had received the Duke University Medal for Distinguished Meritorious Service, the National Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the University Award from the University of North Carolina, the John Tyler Caldwell Award for the Humanities from the North Carolina Humanities Council, and the Hadassa Medical Center's Freedom Award, and in 2009 she was inducted into the North Carolina Women's Hall of Fame. She has also received honorary degrees from North Carolina Central University, Davidson College, Elon University, Shaw University, Pfeiffer University, Campbell University, UNC-Chapel Hill, and N.C. Wesleyan College.\n\nSemans died on January 25, 2012 at age 91 in Duke Hospital in Durham, North Carolina. The exact cause of death was not published. She is survived by seven children, sixteen grandchildren, and twenty-nine great-grandchildren.\n\nSemans became involved with and started many charitable organizations throughout her life. She dedicated nearly her entire life to philanthropic work, yet she could never bear to think of her work as philanthropy. When asked for a reflection on her work, she replied that she \"see[s] that word [philanthropy] all the time,\" but never thought it applied to her. She was simply \"giv[ing] to so and so\" at times when they needed it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2912421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2912421", "title": "Mary Wambui", "text": "Mary Wambui\n\nMary Wambui is a Kenyan businesswoman and politician. She succeeded former president Mwai Kibaki as the member of parliament for Othaya. She is allegedly Kibaki's second wife. The Wambui family claim that Mwai married Mary in 1972 under Kikuyu customary law and have a daughter, Wangui Mwai.\n\nIn 2004 the media reported that Kibaki has a second spouse allegedly married under customary law, Mary Wambui, and a daughter, Wangui Mwai. After the news broke, the State House released an unsigned statement that Kibaki's only immediate family is his wife, Lucy and their four children. The \"Washington Post\" termed the entire scandal as a \"new Kenyan soap opera\". In 2009, Kibaki, accompanied by a furious Lucy Kibaki, held a press conference to re-state to the world that he only has one wife. Although officially denied status as a wife, Wambui is provided with all the trappings of a presidential spouse including armed bodyguards and limousines.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Standard\" written on April 5, 2007, Winnie said that she and Artur Margaryan, a suspected mercenary from Armenia, intended to marry in the future. \nBefore she joined parliament, Mary Wambui was often described as a National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) activist and later as \"The National Alliance activist\" when she switched loyalties.\n\nAt a recent interview with the media in Kenya, Wambui said that she had five children but was reluctant to disclose their names.\n"}
{"id": "45515999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45515999", "title": "Max Conze", "text": "Max Conze\n\nMaximilian Conze (born 1969) was appointed Chief Executive of Dyson in 2011. His vision for geographic expansion in Asia and growth of the company's product portfolio has had high impact and in 2016 Dyson recorded a turnover of £2.51bn (up 45% on prior year). Under Conze’s leadership the company is investing 2.5 billion into future technologies. Dyson has 40 new products in development, is launching the Dyson Institute of Engineering and Technology - a new university based in Malmesbury and has an ambition for new battery technology. Conze’s strong belief is “Our lifeblood is inventing and to do this we must aggressively bring in bright young engineering talent.\"\n\nConze was born in the German city of Bielefeld and lived across Germany. He spent two years as a lieutenant in the parachute regiment of the German army before getting his MBA from the Turner College of Business at Columbus State University. After graduation, Conze joined Procter & Gamble.\n\nConze worked for Procter & Gamble, for 17 years (1993-2010), eventually becoming Marketing Director of Global Skincare from 2000 to 2001. At P&G, he also held the role of Senior Marketing Director of Beauty in Greater China from 2004 to 2007. Following stints in the UK, Switzerland, US and China, he left P&G as Managing Director of DACH in 2010. For Conze this experience taught him the importance of innovation and geographic breadth. \n\nConze joined Dyson as President, North America in 2010 and in September 2011 Conze succeeded Martin McCourt as Chief Executive Officer of Dyson. He had been inspired by James Dyson’s story and the two operated hand in hand harmoniously.\n\nDyson saw its sales revenue doubled and investment in new technology increased to 3 times during Max’s term. Conze ran a group with more than 4,400 employees around the world including the UK head office; a Malaysian factory where the bulk of production is carried out, a second technology campus named Hullavington in Malmesbury and a new motor facility in Singapore. Under Conze’s leadership, Dyson experienced strong growth and entered new categories. \n\n2016 saw the launch of the Dyson Supersonic hair dryer, the Dyson V8 cord-free vacuum and the introduction of the Dyson Demo shop. Dyson's then-CEO Max Conze said, “2016 was one of our best years yet, driven by new technology and international growth. Our future is best understood by looking at the new Dyson demo stores. They get people hands-on with Dyson machines to understand the intelligent technology inside.” \n\nConze led Dyson through a period of expansion, announcing the new Hullavington campus in February 2017 as a part of plans to increase the company’s workforce of engineers and scientists to around 7000 in the next five years.\n\nIn March 2017, Dyson revealed that its profits for 2016 topped £630 million after company recorded a 244 percent growth in China markets. Dyson announced a £1.5bn investment into research and development of future technologies. The plan was rooted in an ongoing expansion of Dyson engineering, working with universities to develop a technology pipeline that stretches 25 years into the future. Conze is passionate about the potential of young people and the benefits of recruiting talent fresh out of university, believing that they are more willing to take risks and think unconventionally.\n\nConze left Dyson under acrimonious circumstances in October 2017. \n\nConze joins ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE to the 1st of June as the new CEO. He follows to Thomas Ebeling who left ProSiebenSat.1 on 22nd of February 2018.\n\nConze is father of two daughters, Lea and Chiara. He lives in Wiltshire, England, and enjoys horse riding with his family, as well as skiing and sailing. He owns a horse, who is also called Max.\n\n"}
{"id": "34059753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34059753", "title": "Maxim Behar", "text": "Maxim Behar\n\nMaxim Behar (; ) is a Bulgarian businessman of Jewish descent. He is the CEO and Chairman of the Board of M3 Communications Group, Inc, a public relations and public affairs company and a Hill+Knowlton Strategies partner since 2000. Behar is also president of the International Communications Consultancy Organization, board member of PR Museum in New York, and a frequent speaker at national and international events. He is also Chairman of the Board of World Communications Forum in Davos.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55574344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55574344", "title": "Michael Maguire (ombudsman)", "text": "Michael Maguire (ombudsman)\n\nMichael Maguire is a Northern Irish public servant and former management consultant. Since July 2012, he has served as the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland. He was previously the Chief Inspector of the Criminal Justice Inspectorate in Northern Ireland (2008 to 2012). Before moving into public service, he worked as a management consultant with PA Consulting Group and was a Director of Price Waterhouse.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "54284149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54284149", "title": "Michel Fribourg", "text": "Michel Fribourg\n\nMichel P. Fribourg (1913 - 10 April 2001) was a Belgian-born Jewish-American billionaire businessman, the chairman and CEO of Continental Grain, a global agribusiness and food company founded by Simon Fribourg in Arlon, Belgium in 1813. In his \"New York Times\" obituary, he was called \"certainly the premier figure in world trade in food of the 20th century\".\n\nFribourg was born in Antwerp and educated in France.\n\nHe worked all of his life for Continental Grain a company owned by his family, rising to chairman and CEO.\n\nIn 1944, following the death of his father, he became the fifth generation of Fribourgs to lead Continental Grain.\n\nIn 1998, \"Forbes\" estimated his net worth at $2.4 billion, based on his ownership of Continental Grain and 75% of ContiFinancial.\n\nHe was married to Mary Ann.\n\nThey had five children, sons Robert Fribourg, Paul J. Fribourg, Charles Fribourg, Nadine Newman and Caroline Rosen.\n\nHe died in New York on 10 April 2001.\n"}
{"id": "27593038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27593038", "title": "Mikasa Sports", "text": "Mikasa Sports\n\nTheir football, basketball, volleyball, waterpolo and handball are often used for official matches, games and competitions. Notably, Mikasa volleyballs are the official balls for all Fédération Internationale de Volleyball worldwide competitions, and numerous domestic leagues outside of North America.\n\nMikasa volleyballs are the official ball for the Olympics. Presently clubs, regions, high schools, colleges, and tournaments throughout the U.S. use Mikasa volleyballs.\n\nMikasa makes many different types of balls, including goods for basketball, beach and indoor volleyball, football, rugby union, waterpolo, korfball, American football and rugby football (the last two, only in the United States).\n\nMikasa has been the official ball provider of the following leagues and associations, as well as it has exclusive agreements with some prominent athletes:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMikasa manufactures products in Thailand and has been accused of workplace brutality and human rights violations in some factories. The International Trade Union Confederation, published a report alleging \"systematic anti-union campaigns\" by Mikasa. The report detailed various allegations:\n\nThrough such practices, the ITUC argued, Mikasa succeeded in either firing or forcing the resignation of the entire union committee (except the union president), essentially destroying the right of its workers to organize.\n\nA separate report, by the Thai Labor Campaign alleged that new Mikasa factory workers received only 173 baht per day ($4.36 per day) in 2006.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3646149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3646149", "title": "Mohammed bin Hammam", "text": "Mohammed bin Hammam\n\nMohamed bin Hammam (; born 8 May 1949) is a Qatari who was a football administrator and president of the Asian Football Confederation from 1 August 2002 to 14 June 2011, and a member of FIFA's 24-man executive committee from 1996 to 2011 for more than 15 years. On 23 July 2011, Bin Hammam was banned for life from all FIFA and football related activities by an action of the FIFA Ethics Committee. Bin Hammam challenged this sanction in the Court of Arbitration for Sport and the ban was subsequently annulled on 19 July 2012 due to lack of sufficient evidence. However, just 5 months later in December 2012, FIFA handed bin Hammam a second life ban from football after \"conflicts of interest\" were identified in his role as president of the AFC.\n\nHe was the subject of an exposé published by the British newspaper the \"Sunday Times\" in June 2014. The newspaper published leaked email documents which showed that bin Hammam had paid members of other nations' Football Associations in the run up to his FIFA presidential election campaign and prior to the 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cup bids decision that took place in December 2010.\n\nHe was born on 8 May 1949 in Doha, Qatar. His father was a businessman, and his mother was a nurse. He has eleven children. He worked in Qatar's football confederation from 1972 to 1996.\n\nDuring his time at the helm, he oversaw the creation of the AFC Champions League and the acceptance of Australia into the AFC. He also initiated the strategic development program called Vision Asia extreme golf club. He has been a FIFA Executive Member since 1996.\nHe has opposed the participation of the Wellington Phoenix team in the Asian Champions League. He was re-elected once again on 5 January 2011.\n\nIn March 2011, he called upon Arab and Muslim nations to play the Palestine national football team at the Faisal Al-Husseini International Stadium: \"I hope that all Arab and Muslim teams will come here to play matches against Palestine at their own home ground\". A number of regional football squads had rejected the idea of playing there as it could be seen as tantamount to accepting the Israeli right to the West Bank.\n\nAs well as being the president of the Asian Football Confederation, he was also the chairman of the Fifa Goal Bureau, whose grants provide financial support for member associations across the world. He was also influential in bringing the 2022 FIFA World Cup to his native Qatar.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Guardian\", Mohammed bin Hammam stated he might run against the incumbent president Sepp Blatter for the presidency of FIFA which will be decided during the 61st FIFA Congress between 31 May and 1 June 2011. He told the \"Guardian\": \"People have to try change. Change is good.\" Bin Hammam said that Blatter was \"an experienced person, he has made significant contribution to football worldwide but I believe there is a time limit for everything. There is now a time for a new face and a new heir.\" Bin Hammam had supported Blatter's 1998 and 2002 presidential campaigns but admitted that he had fallen out with Blatter over issues within the FIFA Executive Committee. In August 2010 Bin Hamman had vowed not to run against Blatter saying that \"I will be backing him to remain in office for a new mandate. He is my very good friend\".\n\nFollowing the 10 May 2011 meeting of the CFU, Chuck Blazer a FIFA Executive Committee member and General Secretary of CONCACAF initiated an investigation into allegations of attempted bribery despite not being in attendance. As a result of the investigations preliminary findings, Bin Hammam was charged with offering bribes for votes and appeared before FIFA's ethics committee on 29 May. Bin Hammam withdrew from the presidential race the day before the ethics committee meeting, leaving Blatter to run unopposed.\n\nOn 29 May 2011, FIFA's ethics committee suspended Bin Hammam and Jack Warner temporarily from all football-related activity pending the outcome of a full inquiry into accusations that they offered financial incentives to members of the Caribbean Football Union. Bin Hammam said that he would appeal against the committee's decision to provisionally ban him from football related activity, saying that \"The way these proceedings have been conducted is not compliant with any principles of justice.\" He also issued a statement calling for his reinstatement as well as responding to the claims in detail.\n\nWhile the appeals process is ongoing, Zhang Jilong is acting President of the Asian Football Confederation.\n\nOn 23 July 2011, Bin Hammam was banned for life from all football activities by a five-member panel of the FIFA Ethics committee chaired by Petrus Damaseb. The committee found that his actions violated the organization' ethics rules after studying the reports of investigators and hearing the testimony of witnesses from the May 2011 meeting who were not available for cross examination by Bin Hammam's legal representatives. Bin Hammam appealed against his ban, and was eventually rejected by the FIFA Appeal Committee.\n\nBin Hammam took his appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport which heard the appeal on 18–19 April 2012. His lifetime ban was annulled by the court on 19 July 2012.\n\nIn December 2012, FIFA handed bin Hammam a second life ban from football after \"conflicts of interest\" were identified in his role as president of the AFC.\n\nOn 1 June 2014 the Sunday Times published leaked emails given to them from a \"senior figure inside the sport’s governing body\". There were several emails leaked which shown that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47645266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47645266", "title": "Nine-Twelve District", "text": "Nine-Twelve District\n\nThe Nine-Twelve District is a major area of downtown Cleveland, in the U.S. state of Ohio, that is the re-branding of the former Financial District of Cleveland. This re-branding has largely been championed by the Downtown Cleveland Alliance. The name refers to the two major commercial avenues between which the district lies, East 9th Street and East 12th Street. This revamping and reboot of the Cleveland Central Business District has occurred because property and business owners have sought to put a new face on the heart of the city. The district is home to the newly expanded Cuyahoga County Headquarters. \n\nPart of this re-imagining of the area has been Walnut Wednesdays and the success of this has attracted over a 1,000 people to the side street in the Nine-Twelve with its assortment of food trucks and office-worker lunch-break social events. This has in turn led to a growing interest and more importantly growing investment in the area. This can be seen in the rehabbing of The 9 Cleveland into the Metropolitan Hotel and Heinen's Fine Foods opening a store in the old Swetland Building. The effort of the Downtown Cleveland Alliance has also led to an increase in the occupancy of downtown buildings and the refurbishing of old office buildings into residential properties; this can be exemplified by the 1717 East Ninth Building, the Statler Arms Apartments and the current renovation of the Scholfield Building into a high-end hotel.\n\nThe next big question for the district will be how to re-envision the largely vacant The 925 Building as Columbus-based Huntington Bank has by now moved to 200 Public Square into the former BP Tower. This has led to one of the largest office spaces in downtown to now sit empty while investors rally to be in on the next big thing in Cleveland's Nine-Twelve District. The most recent plans call for a mixture of retail, residential, and commercial square footage for the mammoth building. This plan is being spearheaded by South Florida developer Andrew \"Avi\" Greenbaum. Only time will tell if these new out-of-state investors can resurrect the once highly sought-after office space in Ohio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57352307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57352307", "title": "Ope Banwo", "text": "Ope Banwo\n\nOpe Banwo is a USA-based Nigerian attorney and entrepreneur. He is known for his work with Daniel Ademinokan on the movie \"Ghetto Dreamz,\" nominated for Best Original Screenplay/Scriptwriting in the 2012 Nollywood Movie Awards. He has also created software, Mobimatic\",\" for creating mobile apps.\n\nMore recently, he launched a cryptocurrency startup, Nollytainment Limited, which seeks to use blockchain technology to support Nollywood, the Nigerian movie industry.\n\nHe is married to Olunike Ajoke Olunloyo and they have 4 children together.\n\nOpe Banwo was born in the Fadeyi area of Lagos, Nigeria on April 30, 1964 to Mr. Omotayo Odukoya Banwo and Mrs. Comfort Adedoja Banwo.\n\nHe attended Fadeyi Primary school in Fadeyi and Ijebu-Ode Grammar School. Banwo graduated as a lawyer from Obafemi Awolowo University and soon afterwards, obtained a Master's Degree in law from the University of Lagos.\n\nBanwo was the first MD/CEO of Dove Media, the media network operated by the Redeemed Christian Church of God. Afterwards, Banwo continued his career in the entertainment industry by launching his own record label, Stingomania Records.\n\nDr. Ope Banwo is also the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Afrinet Business Solutions, an outfit that provides internet business solutions to businesses in Africa and non-African companies doing or seeking to do business in Africa using the power of the internet.\n\nHe is also a founding partner at \"Banwo & Igbokwe\" law firm in Omaha, Nebraska, USA.\n\nOpe Banwo won the Los Angeles Movie Awards in 2011 for the movie, \"Ghetto Dreams.\" An award of excellence under the Script Category.\n"}
{"id": "4613832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4613832", "title": "PACE Award", "text": "PACE Award\n\nThe PACE Award (Premier Automotive Suppliers’ Contribution to Excellence Award) is an annual award from Automotive News in collaboration with Ernst & Young and through 2016 the Transportation Research Center Inc. (TRC Inc.). For the 2016-17 awards OESA, the Original Equipment Suppliers Association, will be a sponsor alongside EY. Automotive News and EY founded the award to celebrate innovation, technological advancement and business performance among automotive suppliers. It is given annually since 1995 in a black-tie ceremony the week of the SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers) convention in Detroit.\n\nThe focus of the award is an innovation developed primarily by a supplier, that is new to the automotive industry, that is in use, and that \"changes the rules of the game.\" Awards have been given for products, materials, processes, capital equipment and services. A panel of independent judges from industry, finance, research, and academia choose finalists from the initial applicants, make site visits to evaluate the innovation, and then gather to select winners, independent of the sponsors. Winners to date include suppliers from Japan, Korea, the US, Canada, Brazil and an array of European countries. Among the most awarded companies over the years are BorgWarner, Delphi Automotive, Federal-Mogul and PPG Industries as well as Robert Bosch GmbH, Gentex Corporation, Johnson Controls and Siemens AG.\n\nFrom 1997, citations describing the winning innovations are available on the Automotive News PACE Award web site.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nProduct Innovation:\n\nInformation Technology/Internet:\n\nManagement Practice:\n\nManufacturing Process:\n\nEurope:\n\nOpen Category - Enduring Innovations:\n\nOpen Category - Environmental:\n\nProduct Innovation:\n\nEurope:\n\nInformation Technology:\n\nProduct Innovation:\n\nProduct Europe:\n\nManufacturing Process & Capital Equipment:\n\nInformation Technology & Services:\n\nProduct Innovation:\n\nProduct Europe:\n\nProcess:\n\nInformation Technology:\n\nProduct:\n\nProduct Europe:\n\nManufacturing Process & Capital Equipment:\n\nInformation Technology & Services:\n\nInnovative OEM Collaborator Awards:\n\nProduct:\n\nProduct Europe:\n\nManufacturing Process & Capital Equipment:\n\nInformation Technology:\n\nInnovative OEM Collaborator Awards:\n\nProduct:\n\nProduct Europe:\n\nManufacturing Process & Capital Equipment:\n\nInformation Technology:\n\nInnovative OEM Collaborator Awards:\n\nProduct:\n\nProduct Europe:\n\nManufacturing Process & Capital Equipment:\n\nInformation Technology and Services:\n\nInnovation Partnership Awards:\n\nProduct:\n\nProduct Europe:\n\nManufacturing Process & Capital Equipment:\n\nInformation Technology & Services:\n\nInnovation Partnership Awards:\n\nProduct:\n\nProduct Europe:\n\nManufacturing Process & Capital Equipment:\n\nInformatian Technology & Services:\n\nInnovation PArtnership Awards:\n\nProduct:\n\nManufacturing Process:\n\nInnovative Partnership Awards:\n\nProduct:\n\nManufacturing Process:\n\nInnovation Partnership Awards:\n\nProduct\n\nManufacturing Process and Capital Equipment\n\nInformation Technology\n\nInnovation Partnership Winners\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142593", "title": "P and R measures", "text": "P and R measures\n\nP and R measures are the statistics used to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of business processes, particularly automated business processes.\n\nThe P measures are the \"process\" measures – these statistics that record the number of times things occur. Examples include:\nand show how efficient the process is.\n\nThe R measures are the \"results\" measures – these statistics record the 'outcomes' of the process. Examples include:\nand show how effective the process is.\n"}
{"id": "31834496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31834496", "title": "Sam Pa", "text": "Sam Pa\n\nSam Pa is believed to be the head of the 88 Queensway Group and numerous subsidiary companies that operate mining and resource concessions in a number of countries notably across Africa. Pa has also been the subject of controversy, allegedly propping up Robert Mugabe's ZANU-PF regime in Zimbabwe and securing business contacts on the back of a coup d'état in Madagascar and civil unrest in Guinea.\n\nSam Pa is alleged to use a number of different aliases; at least eight different names were listed in connection with Pa in an American Congressional report. Some of the names used are Sam Pa, Sampa, Samo, Sam King, Sa Muxu, Xu Songhua, Xu Jinghua, Ghui Ka Leung.\n\nIt is unknown why Pa uses so many aliases. Attempts to research Pa's history prove inconclusive, which has led some to the belief that he is a \"princeling\"—the son of a well connected original Chinese communist revolutionary. Reports also list one of Pa's aliases as having a Russian military background that spent time in Angola during the Angolan Civil War. It is believed that during Pa's time with the Russian military he first met the future Angolan President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos. This was a relationship that he exploited after the Civil War to secure a monopoly over reconstruction projects, which in turn allowed Pa to develop his business interests in China buying a host of construction businesses such as China Steel 20 (Zhongtie 20), Guangxi Construction and Engineering, Guangxi Water and Electric, Sichuan Nanchong, Sichuan Uingshan, Fuikan Ningde, Jinghend INternational and others. It is also alleged by Chinese bloggers that Pa provided weapons and support during the Angolan Civil War.\n\nSam Pa is said to be the President of the China International Fund (CIF) and named by an American Congressional report to be involved in what the report dubbed the \"88 Queensway Group\" of businesses. This is not the legal name of the group, but rather a nickname referring to the fact that all the businesses were registered at a company formation agent's offices in Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong. Some of the businesses associated with the 88 Queensway Group include China Sonangol, Dayuan International (formerly Beiya International) and No 20 China Railways Bureau. However, it is unclear exactly how many businesses are involved in the 88 Queensway Group with over 30 companies registered to the same address with operations throughout Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the United States.\n\nPa's involvement is often not listed in any company documents, but in a common offshore company formation practice he lists the woman believed to be his wife, Veronica Fung, as director in his place. Veronica Fung is listed as Director for at least 24 companies, including CIF and China Sonangol. Alongside Veronica Fung, Pa is also aided by the husband and wife team, Lo Fung Hung and Wang Xiangfei, who also hold directorships on a number of Queensway businesses. Despite their titles of Director, Lo and Wang have been described as \"puppets\" controlled by Pa.\n\nAs head of the China International Fund, Pa has traveled to a number of countries meeting high-ranking officials and Presidents. Some noteworthy inclusions are his connections to Angolan President José Eduardo dos Santos, Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, Argentinean President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner and Guinean Prime Minister Jean-Marie Dore. It is also believed the Pa and CIF have business connections in Tanzania and Madagascar. Often Pa begin State level relationships at a time when a country is experiencing domestic troubles. For example, on 28 September 2009, 150 unarmed pro-democracy Guinean protestors were massacred by Guinean government troops - a week later CIF negotiated a US$7 billion deal with the regime. A similar situation occurred in Madagascar following a coup. It is thought that Pa, through CIF and its associated companies, has committed upwards of US$20 billion in investment funds, mainly in unstable African dictatorships.\n\nOne particular political connection Pa tries to keep quiet is that of his connections to the Chinese State. Commentators have stated that Pa and CIF's programmes \"must have been approved by the Chinese Government\". CIF and Sam Pa are positioned as a key interface in the relationship between the Angolan and Chinese states and the control of Angolan resources - all Angolan oil contracts for the Chinese State company Sinopec are controlled by CIF.\n\nOne of Pa's \"puppet\" directors, Wang Xiangfei, was previously a director of the China Everbright Group and currently is a non-executive director of China International Trust and Investment Company (CITIC Group), both state-owned companies in the People's Republic of China. Both China Everbright and CITIC are believed to be subordinate corporations of the PRC Ministry of State Security's Commission of Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense (COTSIND).\n\nAnother Director, Wu Yang, of at least 14 companies with Pa and the 88 Queensway Group has links to the Chinese PRC Ministry of Public Security and Chinese Ministry of State Security. On company filings, Mr Wu Yang lists his residential address as \"No.14 Dong Chang An Street, Beijing, China.\" This address is the headquarters for the Ministry of Public Safety (MPS), a domestic security service of the Chinese Government. Also located in this compound is a reception office for the Ministry of State Security (MSS), the primary state agency responsible for foreign intelligence activities.\n\nSam Pa has been the subject of numerous press and internet blog reporting and his ties to Robert Mugabe's ZANU-PF were revealed in the Johannesburg Sunday Times. It is alleged that in return for diamonds and mineral resources to supply China's booming economy, Pa has provided funds and equipment to the secretive Zimbabwe Central Intelligence Organisation (CIO) to enable it to deliver an electoral victory for Mugabe and his party. Pa allegedly had been underwriting operations for the Zimbabwean Secret Service to influence the outcomes of polls in favor of ZANU-PF and thereby further secure his business dealings in Zimbabwe. In early 2010 Sam Pa offered to match the salaries of the entire Zimbabwean Secret Service, Police and Army to ensure their support for ZANU-PF. In return, Pa's joint venture with the Zimbabwean Secret Service, Sino-Zim Development, was listed at the top of a classified ZANU-PF list of \"special national interest projects\".\n\nSam Pa and his business such as CIF, China Sonangol and Sino-Zimbabwe have often been disassociated from by official Chinese representation. Chinese Foreign Minister Li Zhao Zing discouraged Argentinean President Kirchner from entering into any agreements with Sam Pa associated business. The WikiLeak 'Cablegate' affair revealed that Chinese Ambassador to Angola Bolum Zhang also distanced himself from CIF stating CIF's \"weak management and lack of leadership have stalled many... projects\".\n\nCIF and China Sonangol have had reports on their ability to plan and complete some of their projects due to difficulty in raising funds. Pa's work in Angola has been heavily criticised for non-completion, with some saying the Pa's companies were \"just playing a game and in the eyes of the Angolan Government have gone through process from belief to feeling cheated\". Sam Pa's work on recontrusting the Benguela railway line attracted criticism from Angolan locals who quoted \"The Chinese spent months getting the camp together and bringing in brand-new bulldozers. Then instead of beginning to repair the line, they dismantled it all, ate their dogs and left.\" \n"}
{"id": "59035193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59035193", "title": "Social media use by businesses", "text": "Social media use by businesses\n\nSocial media use by businesses includes a range of applications. Although social media accessed via desktop computers offer a variety of opportunities for companies in a wide range of business sectors, mobile social media, which users can access when they are \"on the go\" via tablet computers or smartphones, benefit companies because of the location- and time-sensitive awareness of their users. Mobile social media tools can be used for marketing research, communication, sales promotions/discounts, informal employee learning/organizational development, relationship development/loyalty programs, and e-commerce.\n\nE-commerce businesses may refer to social media as consumer-generated media (CGM). A common thread running through all definitions of social media is a blending of technology and social interaction for the co-creation of value for the business or organization that is using it. People obtain valuable information, education, news, and other data from electronic and print media. Social media are distinct from industrial and traditional media such as newspapers, magazines, television, and film as they are comparatively inexpensive marketing tools and are highly accessible. They enable anyone, including private individuals, to publish or access information easily. Industrial media generally require significant resources to publish information, and in most cases the articles go through many revisions before being published. This process adds to the cost and the resulting market price. Originally social media was only used by individuals, but now it is used by both businesses and nonprofit organizations and also in government and politics.\n\nOne characteristic shared by both social and industrial media is the capability to reach small or large audiences; for example, either a blog post or a television show may reach no people or millions of people. Some of the properties that help describe the differences between social and industrial media are:\n\n\nCommunity media constitute a hybrid of industrial and social media. Though community-owned, some community radio, TV, and newspapers are run by professionals and some by amateurs. They use both social and industrial media frameworks. Social media has also been recognized for the way they have changed how public relations professionals conduct their jobs. They have provided an open arena where people are free to exchange ideas on companies, brands, and products. Doc Searls and David Wagner state that the \"...best of the people in PR are not PR types at all. They understand that there aren't censors, they're the company's best conversationalists.\" Social media provides an environment where users and PR professionals can converse, and where PR professionals can promote their brand and improve their company's image by listening and responding to what the public is saying about their product.\n\nThere are four channels by which social media resources can transform into business performance capabilities:\n\nThere are four tools or approaches that engage experts, customers, suppliers, and employees in the development of products and services using social media. Companies and other organizations can use these tools and approaches to improve their business capacity and performance.\n\nCompanies are increasingly using social media monitoring tools to monitor, track, and analyze online conversations on the Web about their brand or products or about related topics of interest. This can be useful in public relations management and advertising campaign tracking, allowing the companies to measure return on investment for their social media ad spending, competitor-auditing, and for public engagement. Tools range from free, basic applications to subscription-based, more in-depth tools.\n\nSocial media tracking also enables companies to respond quickly to online posts that criticize their product or service. By responding quickly to critical online posts, and helping the user to resolve the concerns, this helps the company to lessen the negative effects that online complaints can have about company product or service sales. In the US, for example, if a customer criticizes a major hotel chain's cleanliness or service standards on a social media website, a company representative will usually quickly be alerted to this critical post, so that the company representative can go online and express concern for the sub-par service and offer the complaining person a coupon or discount on their next purchase, plus a promise to forward their concerns to the hotel manager so that the problem will not be repeated. This rapid response helps to show that the company cares about its customers.\n\nThe \"honeycomb framework\" defines how social media services focus on some or all of seven functional building blocks. These building blocks help explain the engagement needs of the social media audience. For instance, LinkedIn users are thought to care mostly about identity, reputation, and relationships, whereas YouTube's primary features are sharing, conversations, groups, and reputation. Many companies build their own social \"containers\" that attempt to link the seven functional building blocks around their brands. These are private communities that engage people around a more narrow theme, as in around a particular brand, vocation or hobby, rather than social media containers such as Google+, Facebook, and Twitter. PR departments face significant challenges in dealing with viral negative sentiment directed at organizations or individuals on social media platforms (dubbed \"sentimentitis\"), which may be a reaction to an announcement or event. In a 2011 article, Jan H. Kietzmann, Kristopher Hermkens, Ian P. McCarthy and Bruno S. Silvestre describe the honeycomb relationship as \"present[ing] a framework that defines social media by using \"seven functional building blocks\": identity, conversations, sharing, presence, relationships, reputation, and groups\".\nSocial media marketing becomes effective through a process called \"building social authority\". One of the foundation concepts in social media has become that you cannot completely control your message through social media but rather you can simply begin to participate in the \"conversation\" expecting that you can achieve a significant influence in that conversation. However, this conversation participation must be cleverly executed because although people are resistant to marketing in general, they are even more resistant to direct or overt marketing through social media platforms. This may seem counterintuitive but it is the main reason building social authority with credibility is so important. A marketer can generally not expect people to be receptive to a marketing message in and of itself. In the Edelman Trust Barometer report in 2008, the majority (58%) of the respondents reported they most trusted company or product information coming from \"people like me\" inferred to be information from someone they trusted. In the 2010 Trust Report, the majority switched to 64% preferring their information from industry experts and academics. According to Inc. Technology's Brent Leary, \"This loss of trust, and the accompanying turn towards experts and authorities, seems to be coinciding with the rise of social media and networks.\"\n"}
{"id": "19608549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19608549", "title": "Takeo Fujisawa", "text": "Takeo Fujisawa\n\nTakeo Fujisawa was born in Koishikawa-ku (now Bunkyo-ku), Tokyo, as the eldest son of Hideshiro Fujisawa and his wife Yuki. After a series of jobs in banking and other sectors, his father Shushiro had become the manager of the Jitsueisha, a publicity company that made slide commercials for display at movie theaters. In 1923, when the young Fujisawa was in his first year at Kyoka Middle School, the Great Kantō earthquake dealt the whole family a terrible blow. The Jitsueisha was destroyed and the elder Fujisawa was left with nothing but borrowed money to live on. Later he planned to revive the movie industry but the tremendous efforts he had made after the disaster had wrecked his health and he became an invalid. The young Fujisawa hoped to become a teacher but failed the official Tokyo school examinations and worked as a professional copyist, writing addresses on envelopes in order to support the family and devoting his leisure time to reading literature. When we see how successful the Takeo Fujisawa was in his later life it is difficult to imagine what a shy young man and poor speaker he was in his early years.\n\nIn 1930, he was called up for military service and after a year in the army he resumed his work as a copyist. Fujisawa’s first permanent employment started in September 1934 when he was twenty-three years old. He worked for the Mitsuwa Shokai, a company in Hatchobori, Nihonbashi, Tokyo, a dealer of steel products, Fujisawa was employed as a traveling salesman, visiting small factories to promote the Mitsuwa Shokai’s steel products. When asked why he had chosen this particular job when his interpersonal skills were so weak, his only reply was that he had felt an intuition that this was the path he should follow. His hidden talent suddenly blossomed and he gradually developed relationships with a range of new clients, becoming the company’s top-performing salesman. He adopted the slogan “Always tell your clients the truth” and if ever it looked as though a delivery was going to be late, he would not try to make up excuses but would apologize and give an honest explanation of the reason for the delay. In this way he could turn a problem to his advantage, because his clients came to trust him all the more. By always offering a solution as well as apologizing, he made sure that the relationship of trust was preserved. This episode in Fujisawa’s life gives a strong impression of his character and exhibits just the same attitude as he showed later in his career.\n\nHe entered the newly founded Honda in 1949, and in 1964 was promoted to vice-president. In 1973 he retired from this position (along with Soichiro Honda himself) and became a corporate adviser to the company. After his retirement, he opened an antique shop in Tokyo.\nFujisawa died of a heart attack in December 1988, aged 78. In January, in the new era, he was posthumously appointed to the fourth rank in the order of precedence and decorated with the Order of the Rising Sun, Third Class.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43119288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43119288", "title": "Thor Fridriksson", "text": "Thor Fridriksson\n\nÞorsteinn Baldur Friðriksson (born 1979), commonly anglicised as Thor Fridriksson, is an Icelandic businessman. He was the founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of Plain Vanilla Games, a Reykjavík-based video game developer, until its defunction in August 2016.\n\nÞorsteinn is a native Icelander. He received a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Oxford in 2009.\n\nÞorsteinn was working with the broadband-ISP startup Hive until it was purchased by Vodafone in 2007. Deciding to explore a different industry, Þorsteinn became a local TV news reporter. After studying at the University of Oxford, Þorsteinn started Plain Vanilla Games in Reykjavík during the Icelandic financial crisis. Þorsteinn and his team at Plain Vanilla Games spent over a year developing an educational app for children called \"The Moogies\", that failed to gain popularity on the App Store. Despite the country's economic issues, Þorsteinn decided to keep the Plain Vanilla Games' headquarters located in Reykjavík to help support job growth and other start-up companies.\n"}
{"id": "2084070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2084070", "title": "Walter A. Haas Jr.", "text": "Walter A. Haas Jr.\n\nWalter A. Haas Jr. (January 24, 1916 – September 20, 1995) was a president and CEO (1958–1976) and chairman (1970–1981) of Levi Strauss & Co, succeeding his father Walter A. Haas (1889–1979). He led the company in its growth from a regional manufacturer and wholesaler of work clothes to one of the world’s leading apparel companies. In 1953, together with his wife, Evelyn, he founded the Evelyn and Walter Haas Jr. Fund, a private family foundation based in San Francisco, California.\n\nHaas was born to a Jewish family in San Francisco, the son of Elise (née Stern) and Walter A. Haas. His mother was the daughter of Sigmund Stern (the nephew of Levi Strauss and the son of David Stern); and Rosalie (née Meyer) Stern, the daughter of Marc Eugene Meyer. Haas graduated from the University of California, Berkeley in 1937. His father was a prominent supporter of the university; the Haas School of Business was named in his honor. Haas attended the Harvard Business School and earned an MBA in 1939.\n\nHaas was the owner of the Oakland Athletics baseball club, acquiring the team from Charles O. Finley in August 1980 for less than $13 million. The acquisition was to prevent the team from moving, as Finley had wanted to sell to industrialist Marvin Davis, who planned to move the team to Denver. Under Haas' ownership, the Athletics won five American League West Division titles (the first in 1981 and the last in 1992, advancing to three consecutive World Series between 1988 and 1990, defeating the cross-bay rival San Francisco Giants in 1989 in a sweep marred only by the infamous Loma Prieta earthquake).\n\nHaas sought to strengthen Levi Strauss & Co.’s position as a socially responsible international corporation. During the 1950s, Haas, along with his brother, Peter E. Haas, oversaw racial integration of the company’s plants. He also led the creation of Community Involvement Teams for Levi Strauss & Co. employees. Haas served on the boards of the Ford Foundation and the National Park Foundation while leading Levi Strauss & Co. He was also involved in other nonprofit institutions such as the Hunter’s Point Boys’ Club and the San Francisco Chronicle’s Season of Sharing Fund.\n\nTogether with his wife, Haas established the Evelyn and Walter Haas Jr. Fund in 1953 as a private family foundation. As its mission statement describes, the Fund “seeks to fulfill (its) founders’ vision of a just and caring society that provides fundamental rights and opportunities so that all people can live, work and raise their families with dignity.” Of his family’s philanthropy, Haas used to say, \"It's in the genes.\"\n\nIn 1940, Haas married Evelyn Danzig Haas; they had three children: Robert D. Haas, former chairman and CEO of Levi Strauss & Co. who is married to Colleen Gershon Haas; philanthropist Betsy Haas Eisenhardt who is married to Roy Eisenhardt; and Walter J. Haas, co-chairman of the Evelyn and Walter Haas Jr. Fund and former chairman and CEO of the Oakland Athletics, who is married to Julie Salles Haas. Haas died at age 79 from prostate cancer at his San Francisco residence. Funeral services were held at Congregation Emanu-El in San Francisco.\n\n"}
{"id": "29766167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29766167", "title": "Walter Ofonagoro", "text": "Walter Ofonagoro\n\nWalter Ofonagoro (born 24 June 1940) is a Nigerian scholar, politician and businessman who is a former Minister of Information and Culture, Federal Republic of Nigeria. He is also the Chairman of Stanwal Securities Limited (member of the Nigerian Stock Exchange), as well as Chairman of Merit Microfinance Bank Ltd.\n\nBorn and raised in Port Harcourt Rivers State, Nigeria on June 24, 1940, Dr. Ofonagoro is the third child and second son in a family of fifteen. His father, Chief Gabriel Obioha Ofonagoro (Duruishimbu IV of Umuanu Amaigbo and Ugochinyere Igbo 1 of Amaigbo) was at the time of his birth, Assistant Transport Manager of UAC Bulk Oil Plant, Port Harcourt. His mother, Lolo Gladys Ogonnaya Ofonagoro was a dealer in UAC Textiles. He was educated at Baptist Day School Port Harcourt from 1947 to 1954, and subsequently at Baptist High School Port Harcourt from 1955 to 1959. He then went on to study at Holy Family College Abak in Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria where he studied for his A-levels and passed the Cambridge Higher School Certificate examination with Distinction in 1961. Afterwards he went to study at Trinity College, University of Toronto Canada where he graduated with a BA. First Class Hons. Modern History, in 1966. He also studied at Columbia University, New York, where he earned an MA in African Economic History with Distinction in June 1967, and finally got his PhD in African Economic History with Distinction on February 2, 1972.He was a distinguished lecturer in the Department of History at the University of Lagos, Nigeria\n\nMany years prior to his work in the Ministry of Information and Culture, Dr. Ofonagoro first began his career in 1962 as a tutor in Baptist High School Port Harcourt where he taught English, Latin and History. From 1968 to 1975, he held several esteemed positions in Columbia University, New York including; Columbia University Preceptor, Instructor in History and Associate Professor of History. During his tenure at Columbia, he helped to organize the Columbia-Morningside Lecture Series on African Heritage from 1968 to 1976. He was also appointed Adviser to Undergraduate History Majors at Columbia University School of General Studies; and was a member of the University Senate from 1970 to 1972. He also served as a visiting professor at various universities in the New York/New Jersey area such as; Queens College, New York University, Brooklyn College, Long Island University, Rutgers College, and City College. He then returned to Nigeria in 1976 where he taught as a Senior Lecturer in the Department of History, University of Lagos until June 1982. During that time, he served in the Postgraduate Assembly which established the Post Graduate School of the University of Lagos. He was also a visiting Senior Lecturer in Economic History at the University of Ibadan from 1978 to 1979. He pioneered the teaching of African Economic History at the University of Lagos (1977 to 1982) and the University of Ibadan (1977 to 1978). He withdrew his services from the University of Lagos in 1982 to pursue a career in politics and business.\n\nDr. Ofonagoro was a contributor on occasionally featured articles and editorials published in the Eastern Nigerian Guardian newspaper, Port Harcourt, from 1959 to 1960. He was also a frequent contributor to radio, television and newspaper discussions in the Canadian and American media. He also lectured on Africa on the Sunrise Semester program of CBS TV in New York. On his return to Nigeria in 1976, he continued his active role in media such as radio, television and newspapers. He also delivered public lectures at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru Plateau State and the Command and Staff College in Jaji, Kaduna State.\n\nIn 1979, he was appointed as Consultant Political Analyst to the Nigeria Television Authority by the government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. His programme Verdict 79 was an epic on the Election of 1979. The programme ended in March 1980.\n\nHe has led Federal Government Delegations to foreign countries, including a delegation to the International Symposium on the Renaissance in Sofia, Bulgaria (1981). In the same year, he led a delegation to Shipyard Split, in former Yugoslavia, to take delivery of \"MV River Maje\" on behalf of the federal government which was acquired for the Nigerian National Shipping Line. Again in October 1981, he was appointed adviser to the Nigerian delegation and member of the special political committee of the United Nations General Assembly by the federal government of Nigeria.\n\nIn 1982, he was appointed Chairman of the News Agency of Nigeria, and shortly after he became Director-General of the NTA in 1983.\nIn 1993, he was Director of Communications in the Presidential Campaign of Bashir Tofa (under the banner of the National Republican Convention) during the elections of 1993.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1995, Dr. Ofonagoro was appointed Member of the National Constitutional Conference Commission, where he served as Chairman of the Organization, the Conference Convention and the Publicity Committee of the Constitutional Conference Commission which served as the secretariat of the Constitutional Conference. He was also appointed a member of some other sub-committees at the conference such as The Committee on National Defence, The Committee on Fundamental Human Rights, Press Freedom and Citizenship, and The Constitution Drafting Committee.\n\nIn 1995, he was elected Chairman of the Intergovernmental Council for the Development of Communications Among Non-Aligned Countries (IGC).\nOn March 20, 1995, Dr. Ofonagoro was appointed Federal Minister of Information and Culture as the Constitutional Conference began to wind down. He thus became a member of the Federal Executive Council and during his administration, helped to restructure the Federal Ministry of Information. While with the Ministry, he embarked on a mission to promote a positive image of the country which had been damaged overseas.\n\nDuring his time with the Ministry of Information, Dr. Ofonagoro led a delegation to Germany and WIPO Geneva (1995). Nigeria won the WIPO Gold Medal for Advancements in Copyright Law and Administration for that year. Among his responsibilities on that mission was to negotiate and sign cultural and bilateral agreements on behalf of Nigeria with friendly foreign countries. He has also led delegations to places such as North Korea, Iran, Ethiopia and Iraq, where he met Saddam Hussein in 1996.\n\nDuring his tenure as Honorable Minister of Information and Culture, Dr. Ofonagoro signed, on behalf of Nigeria, cultural agreements with about 20 countries and organizations. In robust facilitation of meaningful relations with the countries concerned.\n\nHe had ensured full development of the NTA Television College in Jos (1983) and commissioned its engineering and journalism facilities in that year. National Film Institute, National Film Archives, and the National Film Processing Laboratories were also established in Jos (1995) during his administration. These measures were necessary to establish Nollywood as an industry on a firm footing by providing the necessary facilities for training of the operators right here in Nigeria. Also, 1996 saw the granting of licenses, on a large scale, to private sector operators to own and operate radio and TV stations in Nigeria. This created a market for independent film producers to operate profitably and thus, facilitated the development of Nollywood.\n\nHe has also held many other positions which are listed below as follows:\n\nFrom 1981 to 1983, Dr. Ofonagoro has served as Director/Chairman of the Finance and Establishment Committee of the Board of Amalgamated Tin Mines of Nigeria Bukuru, Plateau State, the largest tin mining Company in Nigeria. From 1981 to 1984, he has served as Chairman of Finance and Establishment Committee of the ATMN Board of Directors.\n\nHe has also operated as Director, Chairman and CEO of the following Stanwal Group of Companies which include Stanwal Builders Nigeria Ltd, Stanwal Consultants Nigeria Ltd, and SUNOD Transport and Haulage Company Ltd.\nFrom 1989 to 1995, he was Director of Thomas Kingsley Securities Ltd (Member of Nigeria Stock Exchange). Then he established his own stock brokerage firm (Stanwal Securities Ltd.) in 1991 which was initially known as Atlantic Securities Ltd. Atlantic Securities was renamed to Stanwal Securities in order to avoid any confusion of identity with other similarly named brokerage houses in the Nigerian Capital Market. On June 20, 1997, the firm was granted a license by the Securities and Exchange Commission to operate as a fully independent securities brokerage house with an initial paid-up capital of N5,639,000. However, as at 30 June 2015 the company had achieved a paid-up capital of N251,704,028 and had authorized capital of N1bn, but the net shareholders' funds stood at N72,990,619. Under the circumstances, with the current nose-dive of oil prices and with the capital market in a freefall, the board of Stanwal is reviewing strategies for future business activities. On the brighter side, Stanwal Consultants Ltd. won a Gold medal for Excellence in Business Practice from the Foundation for Excellence in Business Practice, Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nDr. Ofonagoro is also a principal shareholder, and the present Chairman of Merit Microfinance Bank Ltd. (formerly known as Amaigbo Community Bank Ltd). He has gained considerable experience investing in equities in the New York Stock Exchange since 1970, and the Nigerian Stock Exchange since 1977. In 1983, the Nigerian Stock Exchange hosted Dr. Ofonagoro to a private luncheon at the Metropolitan Club Victoria Island, Lagos, in appreciation of his role in popularizing the Capital Market through television broadcasting.\n\nDr. Ofonagoro is married to Lolo Stephanie Nirmala Ofonagoro (née Lobo) of Mumbai, India, who holds the following traditional titles in Nigeria:\n\nAn educationist, Mrs. Ofonagoro earned her Bachelors and master's degrees in Early Childhood Education from the City University of New York, 1973 and 1975 respectively, and was in 1978, appointed Head of University of Lagos Women's Society Nursery School. A position which she held until 2003 when she retired. Earlier, she had taught at the Muslim Teacher Training College, Surulere, Lagos. She has since established a creche in Ikoyi known as Cuddles Daycare. Dr. and Mrs. Ofonagoro have four children: one daughter and three sons.\n\nDr. Ofonagoro is a life member of the Imo State Chapter of the Nigeria Red Cross, and patron of various student unions, youth clubs and chapters of the Nigerian Union of Journalists across the country. He is also a registered trustee of Amaigbo Town Union. He is a member of the Board of Trustees of St. Mary's Joint Hospital Amaigbo, and Patron of Nze na Ozo Titleholders Society of Amaigbo. He currently resides at his country home, Duruishimbu Villa, Umuobi, Amaigbo, Imo State.\n\n\nDr. Ofonagoro has published extensively in Canada, USA, UK, Europe and Africa. Among his long list of publications are the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56300484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56300484", "title": "Win Win Tint", "text": "Win Win Tint\n\nWin Win Tint (; born 1975) is a Burmese businesswoman, entrepreneur and CEO of Burma’s largest retailer, City Mart Holdings. She was listed in Forbes Magazine’s Asia’s 50 Power Businesswomen in 2014.\n\nShe was born on 1975 at Yangon. She graduated an accounting and business administration diploma from Singapore’s Thames Business School. Her family opened its first grocery store in 1996 in Yangon and then three months later asked her to run it; she was just 21. She has been at the helm of the company since 1997, shortly after she returned to Myanmar with a degree in business management from Singapore and she has since built the single-store operation into one of Myanmar’s leading retail chains. Her companies also promote corporate social responsibility outside of the foundation, including through blood-donation drives, art exhibitions, and programs to encourage support for athletes. Now, the company it boasts more than 150 outlets, including 22 City Mart supermarkets, seven huge Ocean Supercenters and 52 City Express convenience stores, 20 City Care pharmacy, beauty products shops, 19 Seasons Bakeries and three branches of City Baby Club.\n\nShe also founded the Pahtama Group, the leading and fastest growing distributor for consumer products in Myanmar for many multinational companies, including P&G, Cerebos, Abbott Laboratories, Nestlé, and Kellogg’s. She currently servicing as the President of Myanmar Retailer Association. She was nominated as a Young Global Leader by World Economic Forum in 2013 and was also a runner-up for the Women Entrepreneur Award of the 2014 ASEAN Business Awards. She was listed in Forbes Magazine’s Asia’s 50 Power Businesswomen in March 2014, it is the first time that a Burmese businesswoman is included in the list. Win Win Tint included in a top 10 of Burmese women in the Irrawaddy Magazine’s December issue on ‘Movers and Shakers’ in 2014.\n"}
