{"id": "324081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324081", "title": "7th Heaven (TV series)", "text": "7th Heaven (TV series)\n\n7th Heaven is an American television drama series created and produced by Brenda Hampton that centers on the Camden family and their lives in the fictional town of Glenoak, California. The series debuted on August 26, 1996, on The WB, where it aired for ten seasons. Following the shutdown of The WB and its merger with UPN to form The CW, the series aired on the new network on September 25, 2006, for its eleventh and final season, airing its final episode on May 13, 2007. \"7th Heaven\" was the last series to be produced by Spelling Television (later produced by CBS Paramount Network Television for the eleventh and final season) before it was shut down and became an in-name-only unit of CBS Television Studios.\n\nThe series follows the Reverend Eric Camden—a Protestant minister living in the fictional town of Glenoak, California—as well as Eric's wife Annie and their seven children. Except for Lucy, the children are all named after key biblical figures. Originally, there are five children (making it a family of seven). The twins are born in season three, in the episode \"In Praise of Women\". Four of the children, Matt, Mary, Lucy, and Simon, at different times, move away from home during the show's run. Simon goes to college, Mary goes to live with her grandparents and Matt marries and pursues his career as a doctor, far away from the family. Despite these three being absent from the Camden home, the house is always full. When Lucy marries, they move into the garage apartment. Their daughter is born while they are there. Later, they move into a home next door. Ruthie leaves for a short while in the final season to go to Scotland. The Camdens offer shelter to various house guests at different points in the show.\n\nAlthough originally produced for Fox in 1996, the show aired on the WB. It was produced by Spelling Television and distributed for syndication by CBS Television Distribution. Its producers, including Aaron Spelling, considered it wholesome family viewing, incorporating public service announcements into the show. The final season of \"7th Heaven\" was shown on the inaugural season of The CW. The show wrapped production on the final episode March 8, 2007, about one month before most shows film their last episodes of the season. This was due largely to the fact that after ten years of working together, the actors, producers and crew had gotten production down to a steady pace, slashing costs repeatedly and routinely coming in well under budget. This resulted in \"7th Heaven\" filming episodes in shorter time during the final seasons.\n\nAfter much deliberation within the now-defunct WB network, it was made public in November 2005 that the tenth season would be the program's final season because of high costs, which were revealed to be due to a poorly negotiated licensing agreement by the WB network a few years earlier. The program's future was hanging in the balance and it was entirely in the hands of the newly established CW network whether to renew it for an eleventh seasonal run. In March 2006, the main cast of characters were approached about the possibility of returning for an eleventh season. After further consideration by the CW network, it was decided three days after the airing of its \"series finale\", that \"7th Heaven\" would be picked up for an eleventh season, which would air on their network in the Monday-night slot that had helped make it famous. Originally the show was renewed for thirteen episodes, but on September 18, 2006, the renewal was extended to a full twenty-two episodes. \n\nAlong with the show's unexpected and last-minute renewal came some changes. The show's already-low budget was moderately trimmed, forcing cuts in the salaries of some cast members and shortened taping schedules (seven days per episode instead of the typical eight). David Gallagher, who played Simon, chose not to return as a regular. Furthermore, Mackenzie Rosman, who played youngest daughter Ruthie, did not appear in the first six episodes. Catherine Hicks missed three episodes in Season 11, as another cost-cutting move. Additionally, George Stults was absent for a few episodes at the beginning of season 11. Also, after airing Monday nights at 8/7c for ten seasons, plus the first two episodes of season 11, the CW unexpectedly moved \"7th Heaven\" to Sunday nights as of October 15, 2006. The Sunday/Monday lineup swap was attributed to mediocre ratings of shows on both nights. While \"7th Heaven\" did improve in numbers over the CW's previous Sunday night programming, it never quite hit its Monday-night momentum again.\n\nThe Parents Television Council often cited \"7th Heaven\" among the top ten most family-friendly shows. The show was praised for its positive portrayal of a cleric and for promoting honesty, respect for parental authority, and the importance of a strong family and a good education through its storylines. It was proclaimed the best show in 1998-1999 by the Parents Television Council. The council also explained \"\"7th Heaven\" manages to provide moral solutions to tough issues facing teenagers without seeming preachy or heavy-handed. Additionally, unlike most TV series, \"7th Heaven\" shows the consequences of reckless and irresponsible behavior.\" It was also noted that \"While addressing topics such as premarital sex and peer pressure, these parents [Annie and Eric] are eager to provide wise counsel along with love and understanding.\"\n\nDiane Tourjée describes the show as an example of \"casual indoctrination [...] which aims to advocate for the beliefs of Christianity without arguing for them explicitly\", citing Sammy Rhodes, campus minister at the University of South Carolina, who argues that \"Satan loves \"7th Heaven\" much more than \"Breaking Bad\"\" because he deems the depicted acts of \"trying to correct bad behavior by making people good\" unrealistic, and calls the world portrayed by the series as \"nice, clean, moral, and totally Christ-less.\"\n\n\"7th Heaven\" was the most watched TV series ever on the WB. It holds the record for the WB's most watched hour at 12.5 million viewers, on February 8, 1999; 19 of the WB's 20 most watched hours were from \"7th Heaven\". On May 8, 2006, it was watched by 7.56 million viewers, the highest rating for the WB since January 2005. When the show moved to the CW, ratings dropped. Possible reasons for the decline include an aired \"Countdown to Goodbye\" ad campaign for the last six months of the 2005–06 season, which promoted it as the final season ever; though the CW announced the series' unexpected renewal, it didn't promote the new season strongly via billboards, bus stops, magazine or on-air promos. Lastly, the network moved \"7th Heaven\" from its long-established Monday night slot to Sunday nights, causing ratings to drop further. The series had a season average of just 3.3 million on the new network, losing 36% of the previous year's audience. It was the third most watched scripted show on the CW. Overall, it was the seventh most watched show.\n\n\nCBS Television Distribution handles the domestic and international distribution of the series. Season one episodes were retitled 7th Heaven Beginnings. Although the series did not receive a rating other than TV-G throughout its 11-season run, reruns on some cable/satellite channels have been given either a TV-PG or TV-14 rating (depending on the subject matter).\n\nIn the United States, the show began airing reruns in off-network syndication on September 25, 2000, but ceased to air in syndication in September 2002, while the series was still in first-run broadcast on The WB and later on The CW. The show then aired on the ABC Family channel from the fall of 2002 until 2008. Then, It was announced on April 1, 2010, that ABC Family had re-obtained the rights to the series, and would begin airing it at 11 a.m. (ET/PT) on weekdays beginning April 12, 2010. However, after one week, ABC Family abruptly pulled the show and replaced it with a third daily airing of \"Gilmore Girls\".\n\nIt started airing on “superstation” WGN America on September 8, 2008, though it had previously aired on from 2000 to 2008 during its initial off-network syndication run. Incidentally, the series aired in first-run form on WGN from the show's 1996 debut on The WB until 1999, when WGN ceased to carry WB network programming on its national feed (\"7th Heaven\", along with \"Sister, Sister\", \"The Parent 'Hood\" and \"The Wayans Bros.\" are the only WB series to air in both first-run broadcast and off-network syndication on WGN America). Since September 2010, \"7th Heaven\" no longer airs on WGN America.\n\nThe series also began airing on Hallmark Channel around the same time as when WGN America began to carry reruns of the series again. Hallmark Channel airings of the series, however, truncated the opening credit sequence removing the majority of the theme song except for the first stanza and the last few seconds of the theme. Both channels removed it in 2010.\n\nIt can now be seen on Joytv, .\n\n, GMC (now known as UP) is the first network to air \"7th Heaven\" in the United States since 2010 and began airing the series with a marathon on July 7, 2012. Due to allegations of child molestation against Stephen Collins, the network pulled the series from its schedule as of the afternoon of October 7, 2014. \"7th Heaven\" briefly returned to UP in December 2014; however, it was quickly removed from the schedule. UP CEO Charley Humbard stated, \"We brought the show back because many viewers expressed they could separate allegations against one actor from the fictional series itself. As it turns out, they cannot.\" However, in the summer of 2015, UP brought back the series, where it currently airs from 12PM to 3PM (EST). As of 2017, it also airs on GetTV and Hallmark Drama.\n\nIn the United States, all eleven seasons of \"7th Heaven\" are available to stream on Amazon Prime and Hulu.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, it aired on Sky One on a weekly basis as a part of its primetime slots at 8pm.\n\nIn Australia, \"7th Heaven\" was originally broadcast on Network Ten. Reruns of the series have been aired weekdays on satellite channel FOX8 and Network Ten's digital channel Eleven.\n\nIt is on RTE (Radio Telefis Eireann) in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nCBS DVD (distributed by Paramount Home Entertainment) has released \"7th Heaven\" on DVD. They have released all 11 seasons in Region 1. In region 2, seasons 1-7 have been released while in region 4 the first 6 seasons have been released on DVD.\n\nOn August 22, 2017, it was announced that the complete series would be released on DVD for November 14.\n\n"}
{"id": "43197994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43197994", "title": "Alexander McCaul", "text": "Alexander McCaul\n\nReverend Alexander McCaul (May 16, 1799 – November 13, 1863) was an Irish Hebraist and missionary to the Jews.\n\nMcCaul, the son of Alexander McCaul (a cordwainer) was born to a Protestant family in Dublin, 16 May 1799. He was educated at a private school, and entering Trinity College, Dublin, 3 October 1814, graduated B.A. 1819, and proceeded M.A. 1831; he was created D.D. in 1837. He was for some time tutor to the Earl of Rosse, and then, was sent in 1821 to Poland as a missionary, by the London Society for Promoting Christianity among the Jews.\n\nMcCaul studied Hebrew and German at Warsaw, and at the end of 1822 went to St. Petersburg, where he was received by Alexander I of Russia. Returning to England, he was ordained and served the curacy of Huntley, near Gloucester, where he became close to Samuel Roffey Maitland. In 1823 he married and returned to Poland, living at Warsaw as head of the mission to the Jews, and English chaplain, until 1830. He was supported by the Grand Duke Constantine, but had disputes with the Lutheran congregations. Moving to Berlin, where he was befriended by George Henry Rose, the English ambassador, and by the Crown Prince of Prussia, who had known him at Warsaw.\n\nTo improve his health McCaul visited Ireland, and returned for a short time to Poland in 1832. Deciding to settle in London, he took up residence in Palestine Place, Cambridge Road and actively supported the London Society. He assisted in founding the Jews' Operatives Converts Institution, and in 1837 started the publication of \"Old Paths\", a weekly pamphlet on Jewish ritual, which continued for sixty weeks.\n\nIn 1840, McCaul was appointed principal of the Hebrew college founded by the London Society; and in the summer of 1841, through Frederick William IV of Prussia, he was offered the bishopric of Jerusalem, but declined it because he thought it would be better held by one who had been a Jew. His friend Michael Solomon Alexander was appointed, and McCaul succeeded Alexander as professor of Hebrew and rabbinical literature at King's College, London. In 1846 he was also elected to the chair of divinity. \nIn 1843, McCaul was appointed rector of St James Duke's Place, London. In 1845 he became prebendary of St Paul's Cathedral, and in 1847 declined Archbishop William Howley's offer of one of the new colonial bishoprics. In 1850 he became rector of the united parish of St Magnus-the-Martyr. When the sittings of Convocation were revived in 1852, McCaul was elected proctor for the London clergy, and represented them for the rest of his life. At first strongly opposed to the revival of the ancient powers of convocation, he modified his views and worked with the High Church party, opposing the relaxation of the subscription to the 39 articles.\n\nMcCaul died at the rectory, St Magnus-the-Martyr, near London Bridge, on 13 November 1863. He is buried in the City of London Cemetery in the north-east of the city.\n\nMcCaul's major works:\n\n\nMarried in 1823, McCaul left several sons. His daughter, Elizabeth Anne (1825–1921), writer and social activist, married James Finn, Consul to Ottoman Palestine, and founded the Distressed Gentlefolk's Aid Association, now known as Elizabeth Finn Care.\n\nAttribution\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36316047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36316047", "title": "Alfred Flechtheim", "text": "Alfred Flechtheim\n\nAlfred Flechtheim (1 April 1878 – 9 March 1937) was a German art dealer, art collector, journalist and publisher.\n\nFlechtheim was born into a Jewish merchant family; his father, Emil Flechtheim, was a grain dealer. Alfred became a partner in his father's company after business internships in London and Paris.\n\nFlechtheim appeared in the art world shortly after 1900, with a collection of paintings by Vincent van Gogh, Paul Cézanne; French Avant garde early works of Pablo Picasso, Georges Braque and André Derain; paintings of Wassily Kandinsky, Maurice de Vlaminck, Alexej von Jawlensky, Gabriele Münter, and the Rhein Expressionists Heinrich Campendonk, August Macke, , and . Flechtheim opened his first gallery in Düsseldorf in 1913, followed by galleries in Berlin, Frankfurt, Cologne, and Vienna.\n\nFlechtheim served in the German Army during World War I, but not at the front. His art business collapsed during the war but he re-opened in Düsseldorf in 1919. In 1921 he founded \"Der Querschnitt\" (the Cross Section), a cultural magazine. Legendary, glamorous parties in Flechtheim's gallery overflowed with the glitterati of the new Berlin: movie stars, titans of finance, prizefighters and artists of every stripe.\n\nAs Hitler rose to power in the late 1920s and early 1930s, Flechtheim became a bête noire because of the art he espoused and championed. In 1933, Sturmabteilung men broke up an auction of Flechtheim's paintings. In March 1933, an art dealer named Alexander Vömel, a member of the SA or Brown Shirts, confiscated Flechtheim’s Düsseldorf gallery. The Nazis aryanized Flechtheim's gallery, as they would many other Jewish businesses. After the war, former party member Vömel said he didn't even remember who Flechtheim was. Flechtheim's former assistant, Curt Valentin, left the Flechtheim Gallery in 1934 and began working in the Berlin gallery of Karl Buchholz, who was not Jewish. The Nazis seized and sold off Flechtheim's private collection, as well as the contents of his gallery.\n\nSix months after the Nazis came to power in 1933, Flechtheim, penniless, fled to Paris, and tried to find work with his former business partner, Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler. Flechtheim subsequently organized exhibits in London of the paintings of exiled German artists. On August 8, 1935, Flechtheim wrote Alfred Barr of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City a letter informing him, “I lost all my money and all my pictures.” By November 1936, Flechtheim's former gallery assistant, Curt Valentin, had made a deal with the Nazis that would allow him to emigrate to New York and to sell “degenerate art” to help fund the Nazi war effort. In January 1937, with financing from Buchholz, Valentin left for New York and set up the Karl Buchholz Gallery at 3 West 46th Street which was later accused of serving as a conduit for bringing Nazi looted art, including paintings that had been seized from Flechtheim, into America. In March 1937 in London, Flechtheim slipped on a patch of ice, was taken to a hospital, punctured his leg on a rusty nail in his hospital bed, developed septicemia leading to amputation of his leg, and died. The Galerie Alfred Flechtheim GmbH disappeared in its entirety on 27 March 1937.\n\nFlechtheim married Betty Goldschmidt, a wealthy Dortmund merchant's daughter. On a honeymoon trip to Paris, Flechtheim invested Betty's dowry in cubist art, to the horror of his inlaws. The marriage was childless. Betty Flechtheim was with her husband in London during his final days. Then she returned to Berlin. In 1941, when she was ordered to report for deportation to Minsk, she ingested a lethal dose of Veronal. The Gestapo seized her art collection.\nProfessor Ossip K. Flechtheim, who in mid-1940s coined the term \"Futurology\", and later became a director of Otto-Suhr-Institut in West Berlin, was Alfred Flechtheim's nephew.\n\nFlechtheim's heirs are attempting to recover artworks stolen from Flechtheim. These works reside in German museums and the Museum of Modern Art.\n\nErnst Ludwig Kirchner's \"Das Soldatenbad\" (1915) remained in the custody of Flechtheim's niece Rosi Hulisch in Berlin. It was acquired in 1938 by Kurt Feldhäusser, a member of the Nazi party. Upon Feldhäusser's death in 1945, the ownership of his collection passed to his mother, who brought the work to the United States and consigned it to the Weyhe Gallery in New York in 1949. It was then purchased by American philanthropist and collector Morton D. May of Saint Louis in 1952. May amassed one of the largest collections of German Expressionist art in America and donated over one thousand works from his collection to various institutions; Das Soldatenbad was donated to The Museum of Modern Art in New York in 1956. In an exchange in 1988, the work became part of the collection of The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation. In 2018 Das Soldatenbad was restituted to the heirs of Alfred Flechtheim by The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and Foundation after an extensive examination of the circumstances surrounding the painting's history. In Nov. 2018, it sold at Sotheby's for $21,975,800 (including fees).\n\nOskar Kokoschka’s \"Joseph de Montesquiou-Fezensac\" (1910) was sold by Alex Vömel to the National Museum of Fine Arts in Stockholm where it would later be transferred to the Moderna Museet. It remained in the Moderna Museet’s collection until 2018, when it was restituted to Flechtheim’s heirs. In Nov. 2018, it sold at Sotheby's for $20,395,200 (including fees).\n\n"}
{"id": "30818633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30818633", "title": "Amos Yong", "text": "Amos Yong\n\nAmos Yong (born July 26, 1965) is an Asian-American Pentecostal theologian and Director Of The Center For Missiological Research And Professor Of Theology And Mission at Fuller Theological Seminary.\n\nSince July 1, 2014, Yong has been Professor of Theology & Mission at Fuller Theological Seminary and director of the Fuller Theological Seminary's Center for Missiological Research. He was the J. Rodman Williams Professor of Theology and Dean at Regent University School of Divinity (Virginia Beach, VA) until June 2014. His Ph.D. from Boston University is in religion and theology, and he also has a B.A. from Bethany College, an M.A. from Western Evangelical Seminary, and an M.A. from Portland State University. He is a former president of the Society for Pentecostal Studies (2008–09) and co-edited its journal, \"\" from 2011-2014. He was the founding co-chair for the Pentecostal-Charismatic Movements Group for the American Academy of hope and Religion (2006–2011), and is co-editor of five monograph series: Pentecostal Manifestos (Eerdmans), Studies in Religion, Theology and Disability (Baylor), CHARIS: Christianity & Renewal - Interdisciplinary Studies (Palgrave Macmillan), Missiological Engagements (IVP Academic), and Mission in Global Community (Baker Academic). A licensed minister in the Assemblies of God, Yong was born in Malaysia and immigrated to the United States. In the last decade, he has become one of the most prolific writers among Pentecostal theologians in the academy. As of 2012, he has devoted scholarly monographs to interreligious dialogue and comparative theology, global Pentecostal theology, theology of disability, political theology, dialogue between science and religion, and theology of love. What may be his most important book (\"Spirit-Word-Community\") is an articulation of a trinitarian theological method and hermeneutic that provides the conceptual basis for all of his other work. In it he demonstrates his ability to bring a Pentecostal account of pneumatology to bear on a number of perennial theological and philosophical concerns, even as he shows that he is not interested only in parochial Pentecostal issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15492369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15492369", "title": "Anacleto González Flores", "text": "Anacleto González Flores\n\nBlessed Anacleto González Flores (July 13, 1888 – April 1, 1927) was a Mexican Catholic layman and lawyer, executed during the persecution of the Catholic Church under the presidency of Plutarco Elías Calles. He was beatified by Benedict XVI as a martyr on November 20, 2005.\n\nAt the time of the killing of González Flores, Mexico was under rule of the fiercely anti-clerical and anti-Catholic President Plutarco Elías Calles who had begun what writer Graham Greene called the \"fiercest persecution of religion anywhere since the reign of Elizabeth.\"\n\nThe second of twelve children born to the poor family of Valentín González Sánchez and María Flores Navarro, Anacleto González Flores was baptized the day after his birth. A priest friend of the family recognized his intelligence and recommended him for the seminary where he excelled, earning the nickname \"Maestro\". After deciding he did not have a calling to holy orders, González began the study of law at Escuela Libre de Derecho in Guadalajara, becoming an attorney in 1922.He married María Concepción Guerrero and they had two children.\n\nGonzález attended Mass daily and engaged in numerous works of charity, including visiting prisoners and teaching catechism.\n\nHe became an activist and leader of the Catholic Association of Mexican Youth (ACJM) and founded the magazine \"La Palabra\" which attacked the anticlerical and anti-Catholic articles of the Constitution of 1917. He was the founder and president of the Popular Union (UP), an organization to organize Catholics to resist the persecution of the Church.\n\nOriginally, he supported passive resistance against the government, having studied the methods of Gandhi. However, in 1926 upon learning of the murder of four members of the Catholic Association of Mexican Youth he joined the National League for the Defense of Religious Freedom, supporting the coming rebellion. He wrote, \"the country is a jail for the Catholic Church...We are not worried about defending our material interests because these come and go; but our spiritual interests, these we will defend because they are necessary to obtain our salvation.\n\nIn January 1927, having endured religious persecution, rebels began the Cristero War. González did not take up arms but gave speeches, encouraging Catholics to support the Cristeros financially and with food, accommodation and clothing. He wrote pamphlets and gave speeches supporting the cause against the anticlerical government.\n\nSeeking to quash the rebellion, the government sought capture of the leaders of the Popular Union and the National League for the Defence of Religious Freedom. González was captured and framed with charges that he murdered American Edgar Wilkens, when in fact the government knew that Wilkens had been killed by his robber, Guadalupe Zuno. González was tortured, including being hung by his thumbs pulling them out of their sockets, having his shoulder fractured with a rifle butt and having the bottom of his feet slashed. On April 1, 1927, he was executed by firing squad. Echoing the words of assassinated Ecuadorian President, Gabriel García Moreno, in defiance of the forces seeking to suppress his faith, González' last words were, \"Hear Americas for the second time: I die but God does not! \"Viva Cristo Rey\"!\"\n\nWilkens' widow, who knew González had been framed, wrote a letter of protest to Washington, D.C. exonerating him. A letter staying his execution arrived shortly after he was shot.\n\nGonzález was portrayed by actor Eduardo Verástegui in the film \"Cristiada\" (English: \"For Greater Glory\"), which also starred Andy Garcia, Eva Longoria and Peter O'Toole.\n\n"}
{"id": "93541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93541", "title": "Apanuugak", "text": "Apanuugak\n\nIn Inuit mythology, Apanuugak is a culture hero who was sometimes depicted as an error-prone warrior who lives to old age and sometimes as a dastardly villain.\n"}
{"id": "32131181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32131181", "title": "Aurea Catena Homeri", "text": "Aurea Catena Homeri\n\nAurea Catena Homeri oder, Eine Beschreibung von dem Ursprung der Natur und natürlichen Dingen (\"The Golden Chain of Homer, or A Description of u and Natural Things\") is an hermetical book edited by Anton Josef Kirchweger in Leipzig in 1723.\n\n"}
{"id": "8065568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8065568", "title": "Beta Abraham", "text": "Beta Abraham\n\nBeta Abraham (, Ge'ez: \"Bēta Abreham\", \"House of Abraham\") other terms by which the community have been known include Tebiban (\"possessor of secret knowledge\"), Balla Ejj (Ge'ez: \"Craftsmens\"), Buda (Ge'ez: \"evil eye\") and Kayla (the Agaw language spoken by them). Is a community regarded by some as a crypto-Jewish offshoot of the Beta Israel community. The size of the community is estimated to be somewhere upwards of 150,000 in number.\n\nThis community is concentrated mainly in the Northern Shewa Zone in the Amhara Region in Ethiopia.\n\nThe earliest reference to the Jewish community in the historical region of Shewa comes from the 14th century missionary Zena Marqos. More Jews arrived in the region of Shewa from the regions of Fogera and Dembiya during the rule of Negasi Krestos and as a result a first wave of Jewish immigration began in the years 1692-1702.\n\nNegasi's grandson, the Meridazmach Abuye fought the forces of emperor Iyasu II, and later on held many of the emperor's soldiers in captivity. Eventually Abuye released some prisoners and appointed them to senior positions in the monarchy. Following this, a second Jewish migration wave began in 1730-1745, which was mainly prompted by the Jews' will to improve their living conditions.\n\nThere are quite a few surviving reports about the existence of a Jewish community in the Shewa region in the 19th century. In 1839 the European missionary Charles Isenberg toured Shewa's capital Ankober and reported that there were Jews around the capital of Shewa and that they were the descendants of those who emigrated from the Fogera region in the Begemder province to Shewa. Isenberg also mentioned that when he spoke with an Ethiopian missionary from the Ethiopian Church on 17 October 1839 he reported that several Jews integrated in the village and converted to Christianity. This came after another by the British traveler Charles Johnson in 1842 that stated that the Jews' economic situation was better off than their Christian neighbors and that they were more skilled and described them as successful merchants. In 1908 Dr. Jacques Faitlovitch reported that there are Jews in Shewa who are referred to by the derogatory name \"Buda\" by their neighbors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84596", "title": "Clemens Brentano", "text": "Clemens Brentano\n\nClemens Wenzeslaus Brentano (also Klemens; pseudonym: Clemens Maria Brentano ; ; 9 September 1778 – 28 July 1842) was a German poet and novelist, and a major figure of German Romanticism. He was the uncle, via his brother Christian, of Franz and Lujo Brentano.\n\nClemens Brentano was born to Peter Anton Brentano and Maximiliane von La Roche, a wealthy merchant family in Frankfurt on 9 September 1778. His father's family was of Italian descent. His sister was writer Bettina von Arnim, who, at a young age, lionised and corresponded with Goethe, and, in 1835, published the correspondence as \"Goethes Briefwechsel mit einem Kinde\" (Goethe's correspondence with a child). Clemens Brentano studied in Halle and Jena, afterwards residing at Heidelberg, Vienna and Berlin. He was close to Wieland, Herder, Goethe, Friedrich Schlegel, Fichte and Tieck.\n\nFrom 1798 to 1800 Brentano lived in Jena, the first center of the romantic movement. In 1801, he moved to Göttingen, and became a friend of Achim von Arnim. He married writer Sophie Mereau on 29 October 1803. In 1804, he moved to Heidelberg and worked with Arnim on \"Zeitungen für Einsiedler\" and \"Des Knaben Wunderhorn\". After his wife Sophie died in 1806 he married a second time in 1807 to Auguste Bussmann (whose half-sister, Marie de Flavigny, later by marriage the Countess Marie d'Agoult, would become the companion of pianist and composer Franz Liszt). In the years between 1808 and 1818, Brentano lived mostly in Berlin, and from 1819 to 1824 in Dülmen, Westphalia.\n\nIn 1818, weary of his somewhat restless and unsettled life, he returned to the practice of the Catholic faith and withdrew to the monastery of Dülmen, where he lived for some years in strict seclusion. He took on there the position of secretary to the Catholic visionary nun, the Blessed Anne Catherine Emmerich.\n\nIt was claimed that from 1802 until her death, she bore the wounds of the Crown of Thorns, and from 1812, the full stigmata, a cross over her heart and the wound from the lance. Clemens Brentano made her acquaintance in 1818 and remained at the foot of the stigmatist's bed copying her dictation until 1824. When she died, he prepared an index of the visions and revelations from her journal, \"The Dolorous Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ\" (published 1833). One of these visions made known by Brentano later resulted in the actual identification of the real House of the Virgin Mary in Ephesus by Abbé Julien Gouyet, a French priest, during 1881. However, some posthumous investigations in 1923 and 1928 made it uncertain how much of the books he attributed to Emmerich were actually his own creation and the works were discarded for her beatification process.\n\nThe latter part of his life he spent in Regensburg, Frankfurt and Munich, actively engaged in promoting the Catholic faith. Brentano assisted Ludwig Achim von Arnim, his brother-in-law, in the collection of folk-songs forming \"Des Knaben Wunderhorn\" (1805–1808), which Gustav Mahler drew upon for his song cycle. He died in Aschaffenburg.\n\nBrentano, whose early writings were published under the pseudonym Maria, belonged to the Heidelberg group of German romantic writers, and his works are marked by excess of fantastic imagery and by abrupt, bizarre modes of expression. His first published writings were \"Satiren und poetische Spiele\" (Leipzig, 1800), a romance \"Godwi oder Das steinerne Bild der Mutter\" (2 vols., Frankfort, 1801), and a musical drama \"Die lustigen Musikanten\" (Frankfort, 1803). Of his dramas the best are \"Ponce de Leon\" (1804), \"Victoria und ihre Geschwister\" (Berlin, 1817) and \"Die Grundung Prags\" (Pesth, 1815).\n\nOn the whole his finest work is the collection of \"Romanzen vom Rosenkranz\" (published posthumously in 1852); his short stories, and more especially the charming \"Geschichte vom braven Kasperl und dem schönen Annerl\" (1817), which has been translated into English, were very popular.\n\nBrentano's collected works, edited by his brother Christian, appeared at Frankfurt in 9 vols. (1851–1855). Selections have been edited by J. B. Diel (1873), M. Koch (1892), and J. Dohmke (1893). See J. B. Diel and William Kreiten, \"Klemens Brentano\" (2 vols, 1877–1878), the introduction to Koch's edition, and R. Steig, \"A. von Arnim und K. Brentano\" (1894).\n\nIn his honor the Clemens Brentano prize is awarded for German literature.\n\nRichard Strauss set six poems by Brentano in \"Sechs Lieder\", Op. 68, in 1818, which are also known as his Brentano Lieder.\n\nBrentano's work is referenced in Thomas Mann's novel \"Doctor Faustus\". A cycle of thirteen songs, based on Brentano's poems, is noted in Chapter XXI as one of the composer protagonist's most significant early works.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37940829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37940829", "title": "Dora van der Meiden-Coolsma", "text": "Dora van der Meiden-Coolsma\n\nTheodora Hermina \"Dora\" van der Meiden-Coolsma (1918–2001) was a Dutch columnist and the writer of 23 children's books, also under the pen name Constanze Hazelager. Seven of these books were written together with Coos Covens.\n\nAs the daughter, wife, and sister of Dutch Reformed ministers, and the granddaughter of the missionary Sierk Coolsma, many of her stories were on Christian topics. Some books were set in Suriname where she had lived during the years 1951-1955. From Suriname, she wrote columns for the daily newspapers Nieuwsblad van het Noorden and the Nieuwe Rotterdamsche Courant.\n\nDora Coolsma married ds. J.A. van der Meiden on 1 July 1940. They had four children, among whom the late historian and translator Pim van der Meiden.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53939506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53939506", "title": "Evan Thomas Davies (musician)", "text": "Evan Thomas Davies (musician)\n\nEvan Thomas Davies (1878 - 1969) was a Welsh musician. His parents were George Davies (a Dowlais barber), and Gwenllian, of Dowlais. His mother's family were descendants of songwriter R.S. Hughes. He received private musical tuition from organist Harry Evans. From 1903-17 Evan held the position of Organist of Pontmorlais Chapel, Merthyr Tydfil, and also worked as a singing teacher in Merthyr Tydfil secondary school (1904–20).\n\nHe was in considerable demand as a solo organist and in 1920 was appointed as the Director of Music at the University College, Bangor, the first full-time appointee to this post. When he retired in 1943, he moved to Aberdare and spent his time composing, broadcasting and adjudicating.\n"}
{"id": "48827198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48827198", "title": "Ezidkhan", "text": "Ezidkhan\n\nEzidkhan (or \"Êzîdxan\", english translation: \"Land of the Yazidis\") is the historical area of settlement of the Yazidis.\n\nThe historical Ezidkhan area includes the Sinjar District (Sinjar town, Khana Sor, Sinune, Zorava, Gohbal, Borek, Dohula, Dugure, Siba Sheikh Khidir, Til Ezer, Kojo etc.) and Shekhan District (Shekhan town, Ba'adra, Lalish, Hahad etc.) and also parts of the Al-Hamdaniya District (Bashiqa and Bahzani) and Tel Keppe District (Hatarah, Bozan etc.) in the Nineveh Governorate in northern Iraq.\n\nThe term \"Ezidkhan\" is also often found in the sacred texts of the Yezidi. An example of this is the Qesîda Şerfedîn (The message of Sherfedin):\n\nThe village of Lalish, containing the holiest temple complex in Yezidism, is located within the Yezidi settlements in what is now northern Iraq. Lalish was under the occupation of the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), but came under federal Iraqi jurisdiction after Iraqi forces took control of Kirkuk and the rest of the Nineveh plains post-Iraqi Kurdistan independence referendum.\n\nDue to the formation of dedicated Yezidi Peshmerga in response to the advance of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, the term 'Ezidkhan' has experienced greater usage. In October 2015 the Yekîneyên Parastina Jin ê Şengalê or YPJ-Sinjar (Women's Defense Units of Sinjar) changed its name to Yekinêyen Jinên Êzidxan or YJÊ (Ezidkhan Women's Units). And in November 2015 the Hêza Parastina Şingal or HPŞ (Protection Force of Sinjar) changed its name to Hêza Parastina Êzîdxanê or HPÊ (Protection Force of Ezidkhan).\n\n"}
{"id": "68974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68974", "title": "Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor", "text": "Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor\n\nFrederick II (26 December 1194 – 13 December 1250; , , , ) was King of Sicily from 1198, King of Germany from 1212, King of Italy and Holy Roman Emperor from 1220 and King of Jerusalem from 1225. His mother Constance was Queen of Sicily and his father was Henry VI of the Hohenstaufen dynasty. Frederick's reign saw the Holy Roman Empire achieve its greatest territorial extent.\n\nHis political and cultural ambitions were enormous as he ruled a vast area beginning with Sicily and stretching through Italy all the way north to Germany. As the Crusades progressed, he acquired control of Jerusalem and styled himself its king. However, the Papacy became his enemy, and it eventually prevailed. His dynasty collapsed soon after his death. Historians have searched for superlatives to describe him, as in the case of Donald Detwiler, who wrote: \n\nViewing himself as a direct successor to the Roman emperors of antiquity, he was Emperor of the Romans from his papal coronation in 1220 until his death; he was also a claimant to the title of King of the Romans from 1212 and unopposed holder of that monarchy from 1215. As such, he was King of Germany, of Italy, and of Burgundy. At the age of three, he was crowned King of Sicily as a co-ruler with his mother, Constance of Hauteville, the daughter of Roger II of Sicily. His other royal title was King of Jerusalem by virtue of marriage and his connection with the Sixth Crusade.\n\nFrequently at war with the papacy, which was hemmed in between Frederick's lands in northern Italy and his Kingdom of Sicily (the \"Regno\") to the south, he was excommunicated four times and often vilified in pro-papal chronicles of the time and after. Pope Gregory IX went so far as to call him an Antichrist.\n\nSpeaking six languages (Latin, Sicilian, Old Germanic, Langues d'oïl, Greek and Arabic), Frederick was an avid patron of science and the arts. He played a major role in promoting literature through the Sicilian School of poetry. His Sicilian royal court in Palermo, beginning around 1220, saw the first use of a literary form of an Italo-Romance language, Sicilian. The poetry that emanated from the school had a significant influence on literature and on what was to become the modern Italian language.\n\nHe was also the first king to formally outlaw trial by ordeal, which had come to be viewed as superstitious.\n\nHis line did not survive long after his death and the House of Hohenstaufen came to an end.\n\nBorn in Iesi, near Ancona, Italy, Frederick was the son of the emperor Henry VI. He was known as the \"puer Apuliae\" (son of Apulia). Some chronicles say that his mother, the forty-year-old Constance, gave birth to him in a public square in order to forestall any doubt about his origin. Frederick was baptised in Assisi.\n\nIn 1196 at Frankfurt am Main the infant Frederick was elected King of the Germans. His rights in Germany were disputed by Henry's brother Philip of Swabia and Otto of Brunswick. At the death of his father in 1197, Frederick was in Italy, traveling towards Germany, when the bad news reached his guardian, Conrad of Spoleto. Frederick was hastily brought back to his mother Constance in Palermo, Sicily, where he was crowned king on 17 May 1198, at just three years of age.\n\nConstance of Sicily was in her own right queen of Sicily, and she established herself as regent. In Frederick's name she dissolved Sicily's ties to Germany and the Empire that had been created by her marriage, sending home his German counsellors and renouncing his claims to the German throne and empire.\n\nUpon Constance's death in 1198, Pope Innocent III succeeded as Frederick's guardian. Frederick's tutor during this period was Cencio, who would become Pope Honorius III. However, Markward of Annweiler, with the support of Henry's brother, Philip of Swabia, reclaimed the regency for himself and soon after invaded the Kingdom of Sicily. In 1200, with the help of Genoese ships, he landed in Sicily and one year later seized the young Frederick. He thus ruled Sicily until 1202, when he was succeeded by another German captain, William of Capparone, who kept Frederick under his control in the royal palace of Palermo until 1206. Frederick was subsequently under tutor Walter of Palearia, until, in 1208, he was declared of age. His first task was to reassert his power over Sicily and southern Italy, where local barons and adventurers had usurped most of the authority.\n\nOtto of Brunswick had been crowned Holy Roman Emperor by Pope Innocent III in 1209. In southern Italy, Otto became the champion of those noblemen and barons who feared Frederick's increasingly strong measures to check their power, such as the dismissal of the pro-noble Walter of Palearia. The new emperor invaded Italy, where he reached Calabria without meeting much resistance. In response, Innocent sided against Otto, and in September 1211 at the Diet of Nuremberg Frederick was elected \"in absentia\" as German King by a rebellious faction backed by the pope. Innocent also excommunicated Otto, who was forced to return to Germany. Frederick sailed to Gaeta with a small following. He agreed with the pope on a future separation between the Sicilian and Imperial titles, and named his wife Constance as regent. Passing through Lombardy and Engadin, he reached Konstanz in September 1212, preceding Otto by a few hours.\n\nFrederick was crowned as king on 9 December 1212 in Mainz. Frederick's authority in Germany remained tenuous, however, and he was recognized only in southern Germany; in the region of northern Germany, the center of Guelph power, Otto continued to hold the reins of royal and imperial power despite his excommunication. But Otto's decisive military defeat at the Bouvines forced him to withdraw to the Guelph hereditary lands where, virtually without supporters, he died in 1218. The German princes, supported by Innocent III, again elected Frederick king of Germany in 1215, and he was crowned king in Aachen on 23 July 1215 by one of the three German archbishops. It was not until another five years had passed, and only after further negotiations between Frederick, Innocent III, and Honorius III – who succeeded to the papacy after Innocent's death in 1216 – that Frederick was crowned Holy Roman Emperor in Rome by Honorius III, on 22 November 1220. At the same time, Frederick's oldest son Henry took the title of King of the Romans.\n\nUnlike most Holy Roman emperors, Frederick spent few years in Germany. In 1218, he helped King Philip II of France and Odo III, Duke of Burgundy, to bring an end to the War of Succession in Champagne (France) by invading Lorraine, capturing and burning Nancy, capturing Theobald I, Duke of Lorraine and forcing him to withdraw his support from Erard of Brienne-Ramerupt. After his coronation in 1220, Frederick remained either in the Kingdom of Sicily or on Crusade until 1236, when he made his last journey to Germany. He returned to Italy in 1237 and stayed there for the remaining thirteen years of his life, represented in Germany by his son Conrad.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Sicily, he built on the reform of the laws begun at the Assizes of Ariano in 1140 by his grandfather Roger II. His initiative in this direction was visible as early as the Assizes of Capua (1220, issued soon after his coronation in Rome) but came to fruition in his promulgation of the Constitutions of Melfi (1231, also known as \"Liber Augustalis\"), a collection of laws for his realm that was remarkable for its time and was a source of inspiration for a long time after. It made the Kingdom of Sicily an absolutist monarchy; it also set a precedent for the primacy of written law. With relatively small modifications, the \"Liber Augustalis\" remained the basis of Sicilian law until 1819.\n\nAt the time he was elected King of the Romans, Frederick promised to go on crusade. He continually delayed, however, and, in spite of his renewal of this vow at his coronation as the King of Germany, he did not travel to Egypt with the armies of the Fifth Crusade in 1217. He sent forces to Egypt under the command of Louis I, Duke of Bavaria, but constant expectation of his arrival caused papal legate Pelagius to reject Ayyubid sultan Al-Kamil's offer to restore the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem to the crusaders in exchange for their withdrawal from Egypt and caused the Crusade to continually stall in anticipation of his ever-delayed arrival. The crusade ended in failure with the loss of Damietta in 1221. Frederick was blamed by both Pope Honorius III and the general Christian populace for this calamitous defeat.\n\nIn 1225, after agreeing with Pope Honorius to launch a Crusade before 1228, Frederick summoned an imperial Diet at Cremona, the main pro-imperial city in Lombardy: the main arguments for holding the Diet would be to continue the struggle against heresy, to organize the crusade and, above all, to restore the imperial power in northern Italy, which had long been usurped by the numerous communes located there. Those assembled responded with the reformation of the Lombard League, which had already defeated his grandfather Frederick Barbarossa in the 12th century, and again Milan was chosen as the league's leader. The Diet was cancelled, however, and the situation was stabilized only through a compromise reached by Honorius between Frederick and the League. During his sojourn in northern Italy, Frederick also invested the Teutonic Order with the territories in what would become East Prussia, starting what was later called the Northern Crusade.\n\nProblems of stability within the empire delayed Frederick's departure on crusade. It was not until 1225, when, by proxy, Frederick had married Isabella II of Jerusalem, heiress to the Kingdom of Jerusalem, that his departure seemed assured. Frederick immediately saw to it that his new father-in-law John of Brienne, the current king of Jerusalem, was dispossessed and his rights transferred to the emperor. In August 1227, Frederick set out for the Holy Land from Brindisi but was forced to return when he was struck down by an epidemic that had broken out. Even the master of the Teutonic Knights, Hermann of Salza, recommended that he return to the mainland to recuperate. On 29 September 1227, Frederick was excommunicated by Pope Gregory IX for failing to honor his crusading pledge.\n\nMany contemporary chroniclers doubted the sincerity of Frederick's illness, and their attitude may be explained by their pro-papal leanings. Roger of Wendover, a chronicler of the time, wrote:\n\nFrederick eventually sailed again from Brindisi in June 1228. The pope, still Gregory IX, regarded that action as a provocation, since, as an excommunicate, Frederick was technically not capable of conducting a Crusade, and he excommunicated the emperor a second time. Frederick reached Acre in September. Since all the local authorities and most of the military orders denied him any help, and because the crusading army was a meagre force, Frederick negotiated along the lines of a previous agreement he had intended to broker with the Ayyubid sultan, Al-Kamil. The treaty, signed in February 1229, resulted in the restitution of Jerusalem, Nazareth, Bethlehem, and a small coastal strip to the Kingdom of Jerusalem, though there are disagreements as to the extent of the territory returned.\nThe treaty also stipulated that the Dome of the Rock and al-Aqsa Mosque were to remain under Muslim control and that the city of Jerusalem would remain without fortifications. Virtually all other crusaders, including the Templars and Hospitallers, condemned this deal as a political ploy on the part of Frederick to regain his kingdom while betraying the cause of the Crusaders. Al-Kamil, who was nervous about possible war with his relatives who ruled Syria and Mesopotamia, wished to avoid further trouble from the Christians, at least until his domestic rivals were subdued.\n\nThe crusade ended in a truce and in Frederick's coronation as King of Jerusalem on 18 March 1229, although this was technically improper. Frederick's wife Isabella, the heiress, had died, leaving their infant son Conrad as rightful king. There is also disagreement as to whether the \"coronation\" was a coronation at all, as a letter written by Frederick to Henry III of England suggests that the crown he placed on his own head was in fact the imperial crown of the Romans.\n\nIn any case, Gerald of Lausanne, the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, did not attend the ceremony; indeed, the next day the Bishop of Caesarea arrived to place the city under interdict on the patriarch's orders. Frederick's further attempts to rule over the Kingdom of Jerusalem were met by resistance on the part of the barons, led by John of Ibelin, Lord of Beirut. In the mid-1230s, Frederick's viceroy was forced to leave Acre, and in 1244, following a siege, Jerusalem itself was lost again to a new Muslim offensive.\n\nWhilst Frederick's seeming bloodless recovery of Jerusalem for the cross brought him great prestige in some European circles, his decision to complete the crusade while excommunicated provoked Church hostility. Although in 1230 the Pope lifted Frederick's excommunication at the Treaty of Ceprano, this decision was taken for a variety of reasons related to the political situation in Europe. Of Frederick's crusade, Philip of Novara, a chronicler of the period, said, \"The emperor left Acre [after the conclusion of the truce]; hated, cursed, and vilified.\" Overall this crusade, arguably the first successful one since the First Crusade, was adversely affected by the manner in which Frederick carried out negotiations without the support of the church. He left behind a kingdom in the Levant torn between his agents and the local nobility, a civil war known as the War of the Lombards.\n\nThe itinerant Joachimite preachers and many radical Franciscans, the Spirituals, supported Frederick. Against the interdict pronounced on his lands, the preachers condemned the Pope and continued to minister the sacraments and grant absolutions. Brother Arnold in Swabia proclaimed the Second Coming for 1260, at which time Frederick would then confiscate the riches of Rome and distribute them among the poor, the \"only true Christians.\"\n\nDuring Frederick's stay in the Holy Land, his regent, Rainald of Spoleto, had attacked the Marche and the Duchy of Spoleto. Gregory IX recruited an army under John of Brienne and, in 1229, invaded southern Italy. His troops overcame an initial resistance at Montecassino and reached Apulia. Frederick arrived at Brindisi in June 1229. He quickly recovered the lost territories and trialled the rebel barons, but avoided crossing the boundaries with the Papal States. The war came to an end with the Treaty of Ceprano in the summer of 1230; the emperor personally met Gregory IX at Anagni, making some concessions to the church in Sicily. He also issued the Constitutions of Melfi (August 1231), as an attempt to solve the political and administrative problems of the country, which had dramatically been shown by the recent war.\nWhile he may have temporarily made his peace with the pope, Frederick found the German princes another matter. Frederick's son Henry VII (who was born 1211 in Sicily, son of Frederick's first wife Constance of Aragon) had caused their discontent with an aggressive policy against their privileges. This forced Henry to a complete capitulation, and the \"Statutum in favorem principum\" (\"Statutes in favor of the princes\"), issued at Worms, deprived the emperor of much of his sovereignty in Germany. Frederick summoned Henry to a meeting, which was held at Aquileia in 1232. Henry confirmed his submission, but Frederick was nevertheless compelled to confirm the \"Statutum\" at Cividale soon afterwards.\n\nThe situation for Frederick was also problematic in Lombardy, after all the emperor's attempts to restore the imperial authority in Lombardy with the help of Gregory IX (at the time, ousted from Rome by a revolt) turned to nothing in 1233. In the meantime Henry in Germany had returned to an anti-princes policy, against his father's will: Frederick thus obtained his excommunication from Gregory IX (July 1234). Henry tried to muster an opposition in Germany and asked the Lombard cities to block the Alpine passes. In May 1235, Frederick went to Germany, taking no army with him: as soon as July, however, he was able to force his son to renounce to the crown all his lands, at Worms, and then imprisoned him.\n\nIn Germany the Hohenstaufen and the Guelphs reconciled in 1235. Otto the Child, the grandson of Henry the Lion, had been deposed as Duke of Bavaria and Saxony in 1180, conveying the allodial Guelphic possessions to Frederick, who in return enfeoffed Otto with the same lands and additional former imperial possessions as the newly established Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, ending the unclear status of the German Guelphs, who had been left without title and rank after 1180.\n\nWith peace north of the Alps, Frederick raised an army from the German princes to suppress the rebel cities in Lombardy. Gregory tried to stop the invasion with diplomatic moves, but in vain. During his descent to Italy, Frederick had to divert his troops to quell a rebellion of Frederick II, Duke of Austria. At Vienna, in February 1237, he obtained the title of King of the Romans for his 9-year-old son Conrad.\n\nAfter the failure of the negotiations between the Lombard cities, the pope and the imperial diplomats, Frederick invaded Lombardy from Verona. In November 1237 he won the decisive battle in Cortenuova over the Lombard League. Frederick celebrated it with a triumph in Cremona in the manner of an ancient Roman emperor, with the captured \"carroccio\" (later sent to the commune of Rome) and an elephant. He rejected any suit for peace, even from Milan, which had sent a great sum of money. This demand of total surrender spurred further resistance from Milan, Brescia, Bologna, and Piacenza, and in October 1238 he was forced to raise the siege of Brescia, in the course of which his enemies had tried unsuccessfully to capture him.\n\nFrederick received the news of his excommunication by Gregory IX in the first months of 1239 while his court was in Padua. The emperor responded by expelling the Franciscans and the Dominicans from Lombardy and electing his son Enzo as Imperial vicar for Northern Italy. Enzo soon annexed the Romagna, Marche, and the Duchy of Spoleto, nominally part of the Papal States. The father announced he was to destroy the Republic of Venice, which had sent some ships against Sicily. In December of that year Frederick marched over Tuscany, entered triumphantly into Foligno, and then in Viterbo, whence he aimed to finally conquer Rome to restore the ancient splendours of the Empire. The siege, however, was ineffective, and Frederick returned to Southern Italy, sacking Benevento (a papal possession). Peace negotiations came to nothing.\n\nIn the meantime the Ghibelline city of Ferrara had fallen, and Frederick swept his way northwards capturing Ravenna and, after another long siege, Faenza. The people of Forlì, which had kept its Ghibelline stance even after the collapse of Hohenstaufen power, offered their loyal support during the capture of the rival city: as a sign of gratitude, they were granted an augmentation of the communal coat-of-arms with the Hohenstaufen eagle, together with other privileges. This episode shows how the independent cities used the rivalry between Empire and Pope as a means to obtain maximum advantage for themselves.\n\nThe Pope called a council, but Ghibelline Pisa thwarted it, capturing cardinals and prelates on a ship sailing from Genoa to Rome. Frederick thought that this time the way into Rome was opened, and he again directed his forces against the Pope, leaving behind him a ruined and burning Umbria. Frederick destroyed Grottaferrata preparing to invade Rome. Then, on 22 August 1241, Gregory died. Frederick, showing that his war was not directed against the Church of Rome but against the Pope, drew back his troops and freed two cardinals from the jail of Capua. Nothing changed in the relationship between Papacy and Empire, however, as Roman troops assaulted the Imperial garrison in Tivoli and the Emperor soon reached Rome. This back-and-forth situation was repeated in 1242 and 1243.\n\nIn 1241-1242, the forces of the Golden Horde decisively defeated the armies of Hungary and Poland and devastated their countryside and all their unfortified settlements. King Béla IV of Hungary appealed to Frederick for aid, but Frederick, being in dispute with the Hungarian king for some time (as Bela had sided with the Papacy against him) and not wanting to commit to a major military expedition so readily, refused. He was unwilling to cross into Hungary, and although he went about unifying his magnates and other monarchs to potentially face a Mongol invasion, he specifically took his vow for the defense of the empire on \"this side of the Alps.\" Frederick was aware of the danger the Mongols posed, and grimly assessed the situation, but also tried to use it as leverage over the Papacy to frame himself as the protector of Christendom. While he called them traitorous pagans, Frederick expressed an admiration for Mongol military prowess after hearing of their deeds, in particular their able commanders and fierce discipline and obedience, judging the latter to be the greatest source of their success. He called a levy throughout Germany while the Mongols were busy raiding Hungary, but in mid 1241 dispersed his army back to their holdfasts as the Mongols preoccupied themselves with the lands east of the Danube, attempting to smash all Hungarian resistance. He subsequently ordered his vassals to strengthen their defenses, adopt a defensive posture, and gather large numbers of crossbowmen.\n\nA chronicler reports that Frederick received a demand of submission from Batu Khan at some time, which he ignored. He apparently kept up to date on the Mongols' activities, as a letter from Frederick II dated June 1241 comments that the Mongols were now using looted Hungarian armor. A letter written by Emperor Frederick II, found in the Regesta Imperii, dated to June 20, 1241 and intended for all his vassals in Swabia, Austria, and Bohemia, included a number of specific military instructions. His forces were to avoid engaging the Mongols in field battles, hoard all food stocks in every fortress and stronghold, and arm all possible levies as well as the general populace. Thomas of Split comments that there was a frenzy of fortifying castles and cities throughout the Holy Roman Empire, including Italy. Either following the Emperor's instructions or on their own initiative, Frederick II, Duke of Austria paid to have his border castles strengthened at his own expense while King Wenceslaus I of Bohemia had every castle strengthened and provisioned, as well as providing soldiers and armaments to monasteries in order to turn them into refuges for the civilian population. Mongol probing attacks did materialize on the Holy Roman Empire's border states: a Mongol attack on Olomouc failed (the leader being captured in a sortie), a force was repulsed in a skirmish near Kłodzko, 300-700 Mongol troops were killed in a battle near Vienna to 100 Austrian losses (according to the Duke of Austria), and a Mongol raiding party was destroyed by Austrian knights in the district of Theben after being backed to the border of the River March. However a full-scale invasion never occurred, as the Mongols spent the next year pillaging Hungary before withdrawing. After the Mongols withdrew from Hungary back to Russia, Frederick turned his attention back towards Italian matters.\n\nA new pope, Innocent IV, was elected on 25 June 1243. He was a member of a noble Imperial family and had some relatives in Frederick's camp, so the Emperor was initially happy with his election. Innocent, however, was to become his fiercest enemy. Negotiations began in the summer of 1243, but the situation changed as Viterbo rebelled, instigated by the intriguing local cardinal Ranieri Capocci. Frederick could not afford to lose his main stronghold near Rome, so he besieged the city. Innocent convinced the rebels to sign a peace but, after Frederick withdrew his garrison, Ranieri nonetheless had them slaughtered on 13 November. Frederick was enraged. The new Pope was a master diplomat, and Frederick signed a peace treaty, which was soon broken. Innocent showed his true Guelph face, and, together with most of the Cardinals, fled via Genoese galleys to Liguria, arriving on 7 July. His aim was to reach Lyon, where a new council was being held since 24 June 1245. Despite initially appearing that the council could end with a compromise, the intervention of Ranieri, who had a series of insulting pamphlets published against Frederick (in which, among other things, he defined the emperor as a heretic and an Antichrist), led the prelates towards a less accommodating solution. One month later, Innocent IV declared Frederick to be deposed as emperor, characterising him as a \"friend of Babylon's sultan,\" \"of Saracen customs,\" \"provided with a harem guarded by eunuchs,\" like the schismatic emperor of Byzantium, and in sum a \"heretic.\"\nThe Pope backed Heinrich Raspe, landgrave of Thuringia, as rival for the imperial crown and set in motion a plot to kill Frederick and Enzo, with the support of the pope's brother-in-law Orlando de Rossi, another friend of Frederick. The plotters were unmasked by the count of Caserta, however, and the city of Altavilla, where they had found shelter, was razed. The guilty were blinded, mutilated, and burnt alive or hanged. An attempt to invade the Kingdom of Sicily, under the command of Ranieri, was halted at Spello by Marino of Eboli, Imperial vicar of Spoleto.\n\nInnocent also sent a flow of money to Germany to cut off Frederick's power at its source. The archbishops of Cologne and Mainz also declared Frederick deposed, and in May 1246 Heinrich Raspe was chosen as the new king. On 5 August 1246 Heinrich, thanks to the Pope's money, managed to defeat an army of Conrad, son of Frederick, near Frankfurt. Frederick strengthened his position in Southern Germany, however, acquiring the Duchy of Austria, whose duke had died without heirs. A year later Heinrich died, and the new anti-king was William II of Holland.\n\nBetween February and March 1247 Frederick settled the situation in Italy by means of the diet of Terni, naming his relatives or friends as vicars of the various lands. He married his son Manfred to the daughter of Amedeo di Savoia and secured the submission of the marquis of Monferrato. On his part, Innocent asked protection from the King of France, Louis IX, but the king was a friend of the Emperor and believed in his desire for peace. A papal army under the command of Ottaviano degli Ubaldini never reached Lombardy, and the Emperor, accompanied by a massive army, held the next diet in Turin.\n\nAn unexpected event was to change the situation dramatically. In June 1247 the important Lombard city of Parma expelled the Imperial functionaries and sided with the Guelphs. Enzo was not in the city and could do nothing more than ask for help from his father, who came back to lay siege to the rebels, together with his friend Ezzelino III da Romano, tyrant of Verona. The besieged languished as the Emperor waited for them to surrender from starvation. He had a wooden city, which he called \"Vittoria\", built around the walls.\n\nOn 18 February 1248, during one of these absences, the camp was suddenly assaulted and taken, and in the ensuing Battle of Parma the Imperial side was routed. Frederick lost the Imperial treasure and with it any hope of maintaining the impetus of his struggle against the rebellious communes and against the pope, who began plans for a crusade against Sicily. Frederick soon recovered and rebuilt an army, but this defeat encouraged resistance in many cities that could no longer bear the fiscal burden of his regime: Romagna, Marche and Spoleto were lost.\n\nIn February 1249 Frederick fired his advisor and prime minister, the famous jurist and poet Pier delle Vigne, on charges of peculation and embezzlement. Some historians suggest that Pier was planning to betray the Emperor, who, according to Matthew of Paris, cried when he discovered the plot. Pier, blinded and in chains, died in Pisa, possibly by his own hand. Even more shocking for Frederick was the capture of his natural son Enzo of Sardinia by the Bolognese at the Battle of Fossalta, in May, 1249. Enzo was held in a palace in Bologna, where he remained captive until his death in 1272.\n\nFrederick lost another son, Richard of Chieti. The struggle continued: the Empire lost Como and Modena, but regained Ravenna. An army sent to invade the Kingdom of Sicily under the command of Cardinal Pietro Capocci was crushed in the Marche at the Battle of Cingoli in 1250. In the first month of that year the indomitable Ranieri of Viterbo died and the Imperial \"condottieri\" again reconquered Romagna, the Marche and Spoleto; and Conrad, King of the Romans, scored several victories in Germany against William of Holland.\n\nFrederick did not take part in of any of these campaigns. He had been ill and likely felt tired. Despite the betrayals and the setbacks he had faced in his last years, Frederick died peacefully, wearing the habit of a Cistercian monk, on 13 December 1250 in Castel Fiorentino (territory of Torremaggiore), in Apulia, after an attack of dysentery.\n\nAt the time of his death, his preeminent position in Europe was challenged but not lost: his testament left his legitimate son Conrad the Imperial and Sicilian crowns. Manfred received the principality of Taranto and the government of the Kingdom, Henry the Kingdom of Arles or that of Jerusalem, while the son of Henry VII was entrusted with the Duchy of Austria and the March of Styria. Frederick's will stipulated that all the lands he had taken from the Church were to be returned to it, all the prisoners freed, and the taxes reduced, provided this did not damage the Empire's prestige.\n\nHowever, upon Conrad's death a mere four years later, the Hohenstaufen dynasty fell from power and the Great Interregnum began, lasting until 1273, one year after the last Hohenstaufen, Enzo, had died in his prison. During this time, a legend developed that Frederick was not truly dead but merely sleeping in the Kyffhäuser Mountains and would one day awaken to reestablish his empire. Over time, this legend largely transferred itself to his grandfather, Frederick I, also known as \"Barbarossa\" (\"Redbeard\").\n\nHis sarcophagus (made of red porphyry) lies in the cathedral of Palermo beside those of his parents (Henry VI and Constance) as well as his grandfather, the Norman king Roger II of Sicily. He is wearing a funerary alb with a Thuluth style inscribed cuff. A bust of Frederick sits in the Walhalla temple built by Ludwig I of Bavaria.\n\nFrederick's contemporaries called him \"stupor mundi\", the \"astonishment of the world\"; the majority of his contemporaries were indeed astonished—and sometimes repelled—by the pronounced unorthodoxy of the Hohenstaufen emperor and his temperamental stubbornness.\n\nFrederick inherited German, Norman, and Sicilian blood, but by training, lifestyle, and temperament he was \"most of all Sicilian.\" Maehl concludes that \"To the end of his life he remained above all a Sicilian \"grand signore\", and his whole imperial policy aimed at expanding the Sicilian kingdom into Italy rather than the German kingdom southward.\" Cantor concludes that \"Frederick had no intention of giving up Naples and Sicily, which were the real strongholds of its power. He was, in fact, uninterested in Germany.\"\n\nFrederick was a religious sceptic. Despite accusations of blasphemy and paganism, and the presence of pagan and oriental elements in his imperial conceptions, Frederick remained substantially linked to traditional Christianity, as shown by his early contacts with both the Franciscans and the Cistercians (in 1215 he was admitted to that order's praying community), as well as with St Elizabeth. In spite of this, Frederick's religious scepticism was unusual for the era in which he lived, and to his contemporaries was highly shocking and scandalous. His papal enemies used it against him at every turn; he was subsequently referred to as \"preambulus Antichristi\" (predecessor of the Antichrist) by Pope Gregory IX, and, as Frederick allegedly did not respect the \"privilegium potestatis\" of the Church, he was excommunicated.\n\nIn Palermo, where the three-year-old boy was brought after his mother's death, he was said to have grown up like a street youth. He was highly precocious, but the only benefit from Innocent III's guardianship was that at fourteen years of age he married a twenty-five-year-old widow named Constance, the daughter of the king of Aragon. Both seem to have been happy with the arrangement, and Constance soon bore a son, Henry.\n\nAt his coronation, he may have worn the red silk mantle that had been crafted during the reign of Roger II. It bore an Arabic inscription indicating that the robe dated from the year 528 in the Muslim calendar, and incorporated a generic benediction, wishing its wearer \"vast prosperity, great generosity and high splendor, fame and magnificent endowments, and the fulfillment of his wishes and hopes. May his days and nights go in pleasure without end or change.\" This coronation robe can be found today in the \"Schatzkammer\" of the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.\n\nRather than exterminate the Muslim population of Western Sicily, he deported them at Lucera. Not least, he enlisted them in his Christian army and even into his personal bodyguards. As Muslim soldiers, they had the advantage of immunity from papal excommunication. For these reasons, as well as his supposed Epicureanism, Frederick II is listed as a representative member of the sixth region of Dante's Inferno, that of the heretics, who are burned in tombs.\n\nA further example of how much Frederick differed from his contemporaries was the conduct of his Crusade in the Holy Land. Outside Jerusalem, with the power to take it, he parleyed five months with the Ayyubid Sultan of Egypt al-Kamil about the surrender of the city. The Sultan summoned him into Jerusalem and entertained him in the most lavish fashion. When the muezzin, out of consideration for Frederick, failed to make the morning call to prayer, the emperor declared: \"I stayed overnight in Jerusalem, in order to overhear the prayer call of the Muslims and their worthy God.\" The Saracens had a good opinion of him, so it was no surprise that after five months the city of Jerusalem was handed over to him, taking advantage of the war difficulties of al-Kamil. The fact that this was regarded in the Arab as in the Christian world as high treason did not matter to him. When certain members of the Knights Templar wrote al-Kamil a letter and offered to destroy Frederick if he lent them aid, al-Kamil handed the letter over to Frederick. Because the Patriarch of Jerusalem refused to crown him king, he set the crown on his own head.\n\nBesides his great tolerance (which, however, did not apply to Christian heretics), Frederick had a great thirst for knowledge and learning. Frederick employed Jews from Sicily, who had immigrated there from the holy land, at his court to translate Greek and Arabic works.\n\nHe played a major role in promoting literature through the Sicilian School of poetry. His Sicilian royal court in Palermo, saw the first use of a literary form of an Italo-Romance language, Sicilian. The poetry that emanated from the school had a significant influence on literature and on what was to become the modern Italian language. The school and its poetry were saluted by Dante and his peers and predate by at least a century the use of the Tuscan idiom as the elite literary language of Italy.\n\nFrederick II is the author of the first treatise on the subject of falconry, \"De Arte Venandi cum Avibus\" (\"The Art of Hunting with Birds\"). In the words of the historian Charles Homer Haskins:\n\nFrederick's pride in his mastery of the art is illustrated by the story that, when he was ordered to become a subject of the Great Khan (Batu) and receive an office at the Khan's court, he remarked that he would make a good falconer, for he understood birds very well. He maintained up to fifty falconers at a time in his court, and in his letters he requested Arctic gyrfalcons from Lübeck and even from Greenland. One of the two existing versions was modified by his son Manfred, also a keen falconer.\n\nFrederick loved exotic animals in general: his menagerie, with which he impressed the cold cities of Northern Italy and Europe, included hounds, giraffes, cheetahs, lynxes, leopards, exotic birds and an elephant.\n\nHe was also alleged to have carried out a number of experiments on people. These experiments were recorded by the monk Salimbene di Adam in his \"Chronicles\". Among the experiments were shutting a prisoner up in a cask to see if the soul could be observed escaping though a hole in the cask when the prisoner died; feeding two prisoners, having sent one out to hunt and the other to bed and then having them disemboweled to see which had digested his meal better; imprisoning children and then denying them any human contact to see if they would develop a natural language.\n\nIn the language deprivation experiment young infants were raised without human interaction in an attempt to determine if there was a natural language that they might demonstrate once their voices matured. It is claimed he was seeking to discover what language would have been imparted unto Adam and Eve by God. In his \"Chronicles\" Salimbene wrote that Frederick bade \"foster-mothers and nurses to suckle and bathe and wash the children, but in no ways to prattle or speak with them; for he would have learnt whether they would speak the Hebrew language (which had been the first), or Greek, or Latin, or Arabic, or perchance the tongue of their parents of whom they had been born. But he laboured in vain, for the children could not live without clappings of the hands, and gestures, and gladness of countenance, and blandishments\"\n\nFrederick was also interested in the stars, and his court was host to many astrologers and astronomers, including Michael Scot and Guido Bonatti. He often sent letters to the leading scholars of the time (not only in Europe) asking for solutions to questions of science, mathematics and physics.\n\nIn 1224 he founded the University of Naples, the world's oldest state university: now called Università Federico II, it remained the sole atheneum of Southern Italy for centuries.\n\nA Damascene chronicler, Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, left a physical description of Frederick based on the testimony of those who had seen the emperor in person in Jerusalem: \"The Emperor was covered with red hair, was bald and myopic. Had he been a slave, he would not have fetched 200 dirhams at market.\" Frederick's eyes were described variously as blue, or \"green like those of a serpent.\"\n\nHis 1231 Edict of Salerno (sometimes called \"Constitution of Salerno\") made the first legally fixed separation of the occupations of physician and apothecary. Physicians were forbidden to double as pharmacists and the prices of various medicinal remedies were fixed. This became a model for regulation of the practice of pharmacy throughout Europe.\n\nHe was not able to extend his legal reforms beyond Sicily to the Empire. In 1232, he was forced by the German princes to promulgate the \"Statutum in favorem principum\" (\"statute in favor of princes\"). It was a charter of liberties for the leading German princes at the expense of the lesser nobility and the entirety of the commoners. The princes gained whole power of jurisdiction, and the power to strike their own coins. The emperor lost his right to establish new cities, castles and mints over their territories. The \"Statutum\" severely weakened central authority in Germany. From 1232 the vassals of the emperor had a veto over imperial legislative decisions. Every new law established by the emperor had to be approved by the princes.\n\nHistorians rate Frederick II as a highly significant European monarch of the Middle Ages. This reputation was present even in Frederick's era. \nLansing and English, two British historians, argue that medieval Palermo has been overlooked in favor of Paris and London:\nModern medievalists no longer accept the notion, sponsored by the popes, of Frederick as an anti-Christian. They argue that Frederick understood himself as a Christian monarch in the sense of a Byzantine emperor, thus as God's \"viceroy\" on earth. Whatever his personal feelings toward religion, certainly submission to the pope did not enter into the matter in the slightest. This was in line with the Hohenstaufen \"Kaiser-Idee\", the ideology claiming the Holy Roman Emperor to be the legitimate successor to the Roman Emperors.\n\n20th-century treatments of Frederick vary from the sober (Wolfgang Stürner) to the dramatic (Ernst Kantorowicz). However, all agree on Frederick II's significance as Holy Roman Emperor. In the judgment of British historian Geoffrey Barraclough, Frederick's extensive concessions to German princes—which he made in the hopes of securing his base for his Italian projects—undid the political power of his predecessors and postponed German unity for centuries.\n\nHowever, the modern approach to Frederick II tends to be focused on the continuity between Frederick and his predecessors as Kings of Sicily and Holy Roman Emperors, and the similarities between him and other thirteenth-century monarchs. David Abulafia, in a biography subtitled \"A Medieval Emperor,\" argues that Frederick's reputation as an enlightened figure ahead of his time is undeserved, and that Frederick was mostly a conventionally Christian monarch who sought to rule in a conventional medieval manner.\n\nFrederick left numerous children, legitimate and illegitimate:\n\n\nMatthew of Paris relates the story of a marriage \"in articulo mortis\" (on her deathbed) between them when Bianca was dying, but this marriage was never recognized by the Church. Nevertheless, Bianca's children were apparently regarded by Frederick as legitimate, evidenced by his daughter Constance's marriage to the Nicaen Emperor, and his own will, in which he appointed Manfred as Prince of Taranto and Regent of Sicily.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39796550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39796550", "title": "Gandharpale Caves", "text": "Gandharpale Caves\n\nGandharpale Caves, also called Mahad caves or Pandava Leni, is group of 30 Buddhist caves, 105 km south of Mumbai on Mumbai-Goa Highway near Mahad. The caves are located near the NH-17 and well connected by road.\n\nImportant cave include:\n\nThe inscription describes donations by bankers, and the gift of a farm to the Sangha.\n"}
{"id": "1862246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1862246", "title": "Great Peacemaker", "text": "Great Peacemaker\n\nThe Great Peacemaker (\"Skennenrahawi\" [skʌ̃.nʌ̃.ɾahawi] in Mohawk), sometimes referred to as Deganawida or Dekanawida (as a mark of respect, some Iroquois avoid using his personal name except in special circumstances) was by tradition, along with Jigonhsasee and Hiawatha, the founder of the \"Haudenosaunee\", commonly called the Iroquois Confederacy. This is a political and cultural union of five Iroquoian-speaking Native American tribes residing in the present-day state of New York, northern Pennsylvania, and the Province of Eastern Ontario, Canada. The union created a powerful alliance of related Iroquoian peoples around the Great Lakes.\n\nHistorians believe the confederacy may have formed in the 15th century. In the early 18th century, the Tuscarora, also an Iroquoian-speaking people, migrated north from the Carolinas and joined the Confederacy as the sixth nation.\n\nThe Great Peacemaker's name means \"Two River Currents Flowing Together\". Some of the numerous legends about the Great Peacemaker have conflicting information. It is reported that he was born a Huron, and by some accounts, his mother was a virgin, making the birth miraculous. Others say he was born an Onondaga and later adopted by the Mohawk.\n\nBy all accounts, the Great Peacemaker was a prophet who counseled peace among the warring tribes, and he called for an end to ritual cannibalism. According to some legends, his first ally was Jigonhsasee. She lent her home for the meeting of the leaders of the rival tribal nations. The Great Peacemaker's follower Hiawatha, an Onondaga renowned for his oratory, helped him achieve his vision of bringing the tribes together in peace.\n\nAccording to the archaeologist Dean Snow, the Great Peacemaker converted Hiawatha in the territory of the Onondaga; he traveled alone to visit the Mohawk tribe who lived near what is now Cohoes, New York. Other traditional accounts hold that the Great Peacemaker consulted with Jigonhsasee about which tribal leaders to approach and she facilitated that meeting to create the confederacy.\n\nAccording to some legends, initially the Mohawk rejected the message of the Great Peacemaker, so he decided to perform a feat to demonstrate his purity and spiritual power. After climbing a tree high above Kahon:ios (Cohoes Falls), the Great Peacemaker told the Mohawk braves to chop the tree down. Many onlookers watched as the Great Peacemaker disappeared into the swirling rapids of the Mohawk River. They believed he had died but the next morning found him sitting near a campfire. Greatly impressed by the Great Peacemaker's miraculous survival, the Mohawk became the founding tribe of the Iroquois Confederacy.\n\nThe tribes gathered at Onondaga Lake, where they planted a Tree of Peace and proclaimed the Great Binding Law of the Iroquois Confederacy.\n\nThis confederacy influenced the United States Constitution and Anglo-American ideas of democracy. During the Albany congress of July 1754, Benjamin Franklin said of the Iroquois confederacy: \"It would be a strange thing.. if six nations of ignorant savages should be capable of forming such a union, and yet it has subsisted for ages and appears indissolvable, and yet like a union should be impractical for 10 or a dozen English colonies.\"\n\nThe dates Dekanawida lived, and thus the founding of the Confederacy, have not been identified with certainty. Historians and archeologists have researched an incident related in the oral history of the founding of the Confederacy. As recorded by later scholars, one account relates there was a violent conflict among the Seneca, who were the last Iroquois nation to join the confederacy as a founding member. Their violence stopped when the sun darkened and the day seemed to turn to night. Since 1902 scholars have studied the possibility that this event was a solar eclipse, as William Canfield suggested in his \"Legends of the Iroquois; told by \"the Cornplanter\" \". As scholars have learned more about the representation of natural events in oral histories, scholars into the 21st century have noted eclipses that could serve to date the founding of the Confederacy, in addition to the archeological evidence. Scholars referring to an eclipse have included (chronologically): Paul A. W. Wallace, Elizabeth Tooker, Bruce E. Johansen, Dean R. Snow, Barbara A. Mann and Jerry L. Fields, William N. Fenton, David Henige, Gary Warrick, and Neta Crawford.\n\nSince Canfield's first mention, and the majority view, scholars have widely supported a date of 1451 AD as being of a known solar eclipse and the likely founding date based on this oral account and other evidence. Some argue it is an insufficient fit for the description, and favor a date of 1142, when there was also a documented solar eclipse. A few question dating the founding of the confederacy based on the mention of the eclipse.\n\nArcheological investigation has contributed to discussions about the founding date, as its evidence can be dated and correlated to natural events. In 1982 archeologist Dean Snow said that evidence from mainstream archeology did not support a founding of the confederacy for any dates of an eclipse before 1350 AD (thus ruling out the 1142 AD date.) By 1998 Fenton considered an eclipse earlier than the 1451 AD majority view unlikely, but possible as long as it was after 1000 AD. By 2007/8 reviews considered an 1142 AD eclipse as a possible point of reference, even if most scholars supported 1451 AD as the safe choice.\n\nThe Great Peacemaker established a council of clan and village chiefs to govern the confederacy. In each tribe, which had matrilineal kinship systems of descent and property-holding, power was shared between the sexes. Men held the positions of hereditary chiefs through their mother's line; clan mothers ruled on the fitness of chiefs and could depose of any that they opposed. Most decisions in council were made by consensus, to which each representative had an equal voice. Early anthropologist Lewis H. Morgan attributed the regional dominance achieved by the Iroquois to their superior organization and coordination compared to other tribes; George Hunt also thought there was a factor of economic determinism, with their need for furs for the European trade and their superior geographic position controlling most of central and western New York. The oral laws and customs of the Great Law of Peace became the constitution of the Iroquois Confederacy, established by the 16th century or earlier.\n\nThe Great Peacemaker worked all his life to bring his vision to fruition. He prophesied that a \"white serpent\" would come to his people's lands and make friends with them, only to deceive them later. A \"red serpent\" would later make war against the \"white serpent\", but an Indian boy would be given a great power. He would be accepted as a chosen leader by the people of \"the land of the hilly country.\" The boy stays neutral in the fight, and he speaks to the people, who number as the blades of grass, but he is heard by all. After a season, a \"black serpent\" would come and defeat both the \"white\" and \"red serpents\". According to the prophecy, when the people gathered under the elm tree become humble, all three \"serpents\" would be blinded by a light many times brighter than the sun. \"Deganawidah\" said that he would be that light. His nation would accept the \"white serpent\" into their safekeeping like a long-lost brother.\n\nSome members of the Bahá'í Faith have connected the signs of a Prophet, as described by Bahá'u'lláh (Prophet-founder of the Baha'i Faith), with the Peacemaker. As such, many Native American Bahá'ís in North America (and some non-Native) revere the Peacemaker as a Manifestation of God.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100661", "title": "Hadad", "text": "Hadad\n\nHadad ( ), Adad, Haddad (Akkadian) or Iškur (Sumerian) was the storm and rain god in the Northwest Semitic and ancient Mesopotamian religions.\n\nHe was attested in Ebla as \"Hadda\" in c. 2500 BCE. From the Levant, Hadad was introduced to Mesopotamia by the Amorites, where he became known as the Akkadian (Assyrian-Babylonian) god Adad. Adad and Iškur are usually written with the logogram —the same symbol used for the Hurrian god Teshub. Hadad was also called \"Pidar\", \"Rapiu\", \"Baal-Zephon\", or often simply Baʿal (Lord), but this title was also used for other gods. The bull was the symbolic animal of Hadad. He appeared bearded, often holding a club and thunderbolt while wearing a bull-horned headdress. Hadad was equated with the Greek god Zeus; the Roman god Jupiter, as Jupiter Dolichenus; the Indo-European Nasite Hittite storm-god Teshub; the Egyptian god Amun.\n\nIn Akkadian, Adad is also known as Rammanu (\"Thunderer\") cognate with \"Raˁmā\" and \"Raˁam\", which was a byname of Hadad. Rammanu was formerly incorrectly taken by many scholars to be an independent Akkadian god later identified with Hadad.\n\nThough originating in northern Mesopotamia, Adad was identified by the same Sumerogram that designated Iškur in the south. His worship became widespread in Mesopotamia after the First Babylonian dynasty. A text dating from the reign of Ur-Ninurta characterizes Adad/Iškur as both threatening in his stormy rage and generally life-giving and benevolent.\n\nThe form Iškur appears in the list of gods found at Shuruppak but was of far less importance, probably partly because storms and rain were scarce in Sumer and agriculture there depended on irrigation instead. The gods Enlil and Ninurta also had storm god features that decreased Iškur's distinctiveness. He sometimes appears as the assistant or companion of one or the other of the two.\n\nWhen Enki distributed the destinies, he made Iškur inspector of the cosmos. In one litany, Iškur is proclaimed again and again as \"great radiant bull, your name is heaven\" and also called son of Anu, lord of Karkara; twin-brother of Enki, lord of abundance, lord who rides the storm, lion of heaven.\n\nIn other texts Adad/Iškur is sometimes son of the moon god Nanna/Sin by Ningal and brother of Utu/Shamash and Inanna/Ishtar. Iškur is also sometimes described as the son of Enlil.\n\nThe bull was portrayed as Adad/Iškur's sacred animal starting in the Old Babylonian period (the first half of the 2nd millennium BCE).\n\nAdad/Iškur's consort (both in early Sumerian and the much later Assyrian texts) was Shala, a goddess of grain, who is also sometimes associated with the god Dagānu. She was also called \"Gubarra\" in the earliest texts. The fire god Gibil (named Gerra in Akkadian) is sometimes the son of Iškur and Shala.\n\nHe is identified with the Anatolian storm-god Teshub, whom the Mitannians designated with the same Sumerogram . Occasionally Adad/Iškur is identified with the god Amurru, the god of the Amorites.\n\nThe Babylonian center of Adad/Iškur's cult was Karkara in the south, his chief temple being ; his spouse Shala was worshipped in a temple named . In Assyria, Adad was developed along with his warrior aspect. During the Middle Assyrian Empire, from the reign of Tiglath-Pileser I (1115–1077 BCE), Adad had a double sanctuary in Assur which he shared with Anu. Anu is often associated with Adad in invocations. The name Adad and various alternate forms and bynames (\"Dadu\", \"Bir\", \"Dadda\") are often found in the names of the Assyrian kings.\n\nAdad/Iškur presents two aspects in the hymns, incantations, and votive inscriptions. On the one hand he is the god who, through bringing on the rain in due season, causes the land to become fertile, and, on the other hand, the storms that he sends out bring havoc and destruction. He is pictured on monuments and cylinder seals (sometimes with a horned helmet) with the lightning and the thunderbolt (sometimes in the form of a spear), and in the hymns the sombre aspects of the god on the whole predominate. His association with the sun-god, Shamash, due to the natural combination of the two deities who alternate in the control of nature, leads to imbuing him with some of the traits belonging to a solar deity.\n\nAccording to Alberto Green, descriptions of Adad starting in the Kassite period and in the region of Mari emphasize his destructive, stormy character and his role as a fearsome warrior deity, in contrast to Iškur's more peaceful and pastoral character.\n\nShamash and Adad became in combination the gods of oracles and of divination in general. Whether the will of the gods is determined through the inspection of the liver of the sacrificial animal, through observing the action of oil bubbles in a basin of water or through the observation of the movements of the heavenly bodies, it is Shamash and Adad who, in the ritual connected with divination, are invariably invoked. Similarly in the annals and votive inscriptions of the kings, when oracles are referred to, Shamash and Adad are always named as the gods addressed, and their ordinary designation in such instances is \"bele biri\" (\"lords of divination\").\n\nIn religious texts, Ba‘al/Hadad is the lord of the sky who governs the rain and thus the germination of plants with the power to determine fertility. He is the protector of life and growth to the agricultural people of the region. The absence of Ba‘al causes dry spells, starvation, death, and chaos. Also refers to the mountain of the west wind. The Biblical reference occurs at a time when Yahweh has provided a strong east wind (cf. Exodus 14:21,22) to push back the waters of the Red or Erythrian Sea, so that the children of Israel might cross over.\n\nIn the Ugaritic texts El, the supreme god of the pantheon, resides on Mount Lel (perhaps meaning \"Night\") and it is there that the assembly of the gods meet. That is perhaps the mythical cosmic mountain.\n\nThe Ba‘al cycle is fragmentary and leaves much unexplained that would have been obvious to a contemporary. In the earliest extant sections there appears to be some sort of feud between El and Ba‘al. El makes one of his sons who is called both prince Yamm (\"Sea\") and judge Nahar (\"River\") king over the gods and changes Yamm's name from \"yw\" (so spelled at that point in the text) to \"mdd ’il\", meaning \"Darling of El\". El informs Yamm that in order to secure his power, Yamm will have to drive Ba‘al from his throne.\n\nIn this battle Ba‘al is somehow weakened, but the divine craftsman Kothar-wa-Khasis strikes Yamm with two magic clubs, Yamm collapses, and Ba'al finishes the fight. ‘Athtart proclaims Ba‘al's victory and salutes Ba‘al/Hadad as \"lrkb ‘rpt\" (\"Rider on the Clouds\"), a phrase applied by editors of modern English Bibles to Yahweh in Psalm 68.4. At ‘Athtart's urging Ba‘al \"scatters\" Yamm and proclaims that Yamm is dead and heat is assured.\n\nA later passage refers to Ba‘al's victory over Lotan, the many-headed sea-dragon. Due to gaps in the text it is not known whether Lotan is another name for Yamm or a reference to another similar story. In the Mediterranean area, crops were often threatened by winds, storms, and floods from the sea, indicating why the ancients feared the fury of this cosmic being.\n\nA palace is built for Ba‘al/Hadad with cedars from Mount Lebanon and Sirion and also from silver and from gold. In his new palace Ba‘al hosts a great feast for the other gods. When urged by Kothar-wa-Khasis, Ba’al, somewhat reluctantly, opens a window in his palace and sends forth thunder and lightning. He then invites Mot 'Death' (god of drought and underworld), another son of El, to the feast.\n\nBut Mot is insulted. The eater of human flesh and blood will not be satisfied with bread and wine. Mot threatens to break Ba‘al into pieces and swallow Ba‘al. Even Ba‘al cannot stand against Death. Gaps here make interpretation dubious. It seems that by the advice of the goddess Shapsh 'Sun', Ba‘al has intercourse with a heifer and dresses the resultant calf in his own clothes as a gift to Mot and then himself prepares to go down to the underworld in the guise of a helpless shade. News of Ba‘al's apparent death leads even El to mourn. ‘Anat, Ba‘al's sister, finds Ba‘al's corpse, presumably really the dead body of the calf, and she buries the body with a funeral feast. The god ‘Athtar is appointed to take Ba‘al's place, but he is a poor substitute. Meanwhile ‘Anat finds Mot, cleaves him with a sword, burns him with fire, and throws his remains on the field for the birds to eat. But the earth is still cracked with drought until Shapsh fetches Ba‘al back.\n\nSeven years later Mot returns and attacks Ba‘al in a battle which ceases only when Shapsh tells Mot that El now supports Ba’al. Thereupon Mot at once surrenders to Ba‘al/Hadad and recognizes Ba‘al as king.\n\nIn the second millennium BCE, the king of Yamhad or Halab (modern Aleppo) received a statue of Ishtar from the king of Mari, as a sign of deference, to be displayed in the temple of Hadad located in Halab Citadel. The king of Aleppo called himself \"the beloved of Hadad\". The god is called \"the god of Aleppo\" on a stele of the Assyrian king Shalmaneser I.\n\nThe element \"Hadad\" appears in a number of theophoric names borne by kings of the region. \nHadad son of Bedad, who defeated the Midianites in the country of Moab, was the fourth king of Edom.\nHadadezer (\"Hadad-is-help\"), the Aramean king defeated by David. Later Aramean kings of Damascus seem to have habitually assumed the title of Ben-Hadad, or son of Hadad, just as a series of Egyptian monarchs are known to have been accustomed to call themselves sons of Ammon. An example is Ben-Hadad, the king of Aram whom Asa, king of Judah, is said to have employed to invade the northern kingdom, Israel. In the 9th or 8th century BCE, the name of Ben-Hadad 'Son of Hadad', king of Aram, is inscribed on his votive basalt stele dedicated to Melqart, found in Bredsh, a village north of Aleppo. A Hadad was also the seventh of the twelve sons of Ishmael.\n\nAs a byname we find Aramaic \"rmn\", Old South Arabic \"rmn\", Hebrew \"rmwn\", Akkadian \"Rammānu\" (\"Thunderer\"), presumably originally vocalized as \"Ramān\" in Aramaic and Hebrew. The Hebrew spelling \"rmwn\" with Massoretic vocalization \"Rimmôn\" is identical with the Hebrew word meaning 'pomegranate' and may be an intentional misspelling and parody of the original.\n\nThe word \"Hadad-rimmon\", for which the inferior reading \"Hadar-rimmon\" is found in some manuscripts in the phrase \"the mourning of (or at) Hadad-rimmon\", has been a subject of much discussion. According to Jerome and all the older Christian interpreters, the mourning is for something that occurred at a place called Hadad-rimmon (\"Maximianopolis\") in the valley of Megiddo. The event alluded to was generally held to be the death of Josiah (or, as in the Targum, the death of Ahab at the hands of Hadadrimmon). But even before the discovery of the Ugaritic texts some suspected that Hadad-rimmon might be a dying-and-rising god like Adonis or Tammuz, perhaps even the same as Tammuz, and the allusion could then be to mournings for Hadad such as those which usually accompanied the Adonis festivals. T. K. Cheyne pointed out that the Septuagint reads simply Rimmon, and argues that this may be a corruption of Migdon (Megiddo), in itself a corruption of Tammuz-Adon. He would render the verse, \"In that day there shall be a great mourning in Jerusalem, as the mourning of the women who weep for Tammuz-Adon\" (\"Adon\" means \"lord\"). No further evidence has come to light to resolve such speculations.\n\nIn Sanchuniathon's account Hadad is once called Adodos, but is mostly named Demarûs. This is a puzzling form, probably from Ugaritic \"dmrn\", which appears in parallelism with Hadad, or possibly a Greek corruption of \"Hadad Ramān\". Sanchuniathon's Hadad is son of Sky by a concubine who is then given to the god Dagon while she is pregnant by Sky. This appears to be an attempt to combine two accounts of Hadad's parentage, one of which is the Ugaritic tradition that Hadad was son of Dagon. The cognate Akkadian god Adad is also often called the son of Anu (\"Sky\"). The corresponding Hittite god Teshub is likewise son of Anu (after a fashion).\n\nIn Sanchuniathon's account, it is Sky who first fights against Pontus (\"Sea\"). Then Sky allies himself with Hadad. Hadad takes over the conflict but is defeated, at which point unfortunately no more is said of this matter. Sanchuniathion agrees with Ugaritic tradition in making Muth, the Ugaritic Mot, whom he also calls \"Death\", the son of El.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6517086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6517086", "title": "Harbi (Islamic law)", "text": "Harbi (Islamic law)\n\nHarbi ( \"belonging to war\", a reference to the House of War) is a term of classical Islamic law, which refers to a non-Muslim, who does not live under the condition of the dhimma. Harbi is counterterm to dhimmi. Sometimes the terms appear in the combination \"kafir harbi\" resp. \"kafir dhimmi\".\n\nAccording to the Middle East Media Research Institute Yusuf al-Qaradawi said:\n\nAccording to the Middle East Media Research Institute the Egyptian Grand-Mufti, Dr. Sheikh Ali Gomaa, said on Jihad and killing harbis:\n\nHowever, this was in the context of a question asking for an Arabic response to a perceived corresponding failure of Israelis to distinguish between civilians and militants in its attacks.\n\nIslamic law recognizes a division between two distinct societies. One is the dar al-Islam, the “house of Islam” and peace. The other one is the dar al-harb, the “house of war,” or the “house of the sword.” Dar al-harb is the world of the infidel and the region of perpetual warfare. Barring any treaty, anyone who comes from the dar al-harb has the status under Islamic law of harbi. According to three different sources on Islamic law—Shaybani’s Siyar: The Islamic Law of Nations by Majid Khadduri, Al-Hidayah, and Ibn Rushd’s The Distinguished Jurist’s Primer—the word harbi means “enemy\".\n\nDrawing from the Siyar, Khadduri defines harbi as “a person belonging to the territory of war, equivalent to an alien in modern terminology, but may be regarded as an enemy as well since he was also in a state of war with the Muslims.” In War and Peace in the Law of Islam, Khadduri writes: It follows that the existence of a dar al-Harb is ultimately outlawed under the Islamic jural order; that the dar al-Islam is permanently under jihad obligation until the dar al-Harb is reduced to non-existence; and that any community accepting certain disabilities must submit to Islamic rule and reside in the dar al-Islam or be bound as clients to the Muslim community. The universality of Islam, in its all-embracing creed, is imposed on the believers as a continuous process of warfare, psychological and political if not strictly military.\n\nKhadduri states this as a matter of doctrine—because the “dar al-harb is ultimately outlawed under the Islamic jural order; … the dar al-Islam is permanently under jihad obligation until the dar al-harb is reduced to non-existence.” Reliance of the Traveller confirms this: There is no indemnity obligatory for killing a non-Muslim at war with Muslims (harbi), someone who has left Islam, someone sentenced to death by stoning for adultery by virtue of having been convicted in court, or those it is obligatory to kill by military action such as a band of highwaymen. As stated by Shaybani, affirmed by Khadduri, and confirmed by the Reliance of the Traveller, the term harbi retains its legal status in Islamic law. Since published shariah holds that the dar al-Islam is in an ongoing state of war with the dar al-harb, the legal theory indicates that all non-Muslims not a part of the dar al-Islam (and not under treaty) are classified as harbi.\n"}
{"id": "10237822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10237822", "title": "Heup Young Kim", "text": "Heup Young Kim\n\nHeup Young Kim (Kim, Hŭb-yŏng; 金洽榮, b. 1949, South Korea) is a Korean Christian theologian and a scholar of East Asian religions (Confucianism and Taoism), specialized in Asian constructive theology, interfaith dialogue, and religion and science. He was Professor of Systematic Theology at Kangnam University in South Korea and a dean of the College of Humanities and Liberal arts, the Graduate School of Theology, and the University Chapel. Kim is one of the founding members and fellows of the International Society for Science and Religion and was a co-moderator of the 6th and 7th Congress of Asian Theologians as well as a president of the Korean Society of Systematic Theology.\n\nAfter graduating from the Engineering College of Seoul National University, he worked as an airplane mechanic for Korean Air Lines and then was hired to work in the Planning Office of Daewoo Corporation. During the Korean economic boom of the 70's, he became a representative of Samhwa Corporation in New York City, a general trading company (import/export) for many products, such as shoes and silk. Then, he had a religious conversion from Confucianism to Christianity, which made him dramatically move into theological studies.\n\nHe earned a M.Div. and Th.M. from Princeton Theological Seminary, and a Ph.D. from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California (directed by Claude Welch). He has carried out extensive research in the areas of Asian constructive theology, interreligious dialogue, comparative theology, and science and religion dialogue. He has been a senior fellow at the Center for the Study of World Religions in Harvard University and the Center for Interdisciplinary Study of Monotheistic Religions in Doshisha University. He has also been a visiting fellow at the Centre for Advanced Religious Theological Studies in the University of Cambridge and the University of Oxford, as well as a visiting scholar at the Center for Theology and the Natural Sciences (CTNS) in the Graduate Theological Union.\n\nKim has received numerous honors and awards including the Graduate Theological Union Alum of the Year for 2009, the Global Perspectives on Science and Spirituality (2005-6), John Templeton Research grant (2004-5), and Kangnam University Most Distinguished Research Professor Award (2003). He has also published numerous works in the areas of interfaith dialogue, theology of religions, Asian theology, and science and religion, including Wang Yang-ming and Karl Barth: A Confucian-Christian Dialogue (1996), Christ and the Tao (2003), The Tao in Confucianism and Taoism (2011), and A Theology of Dao (2017), in English; Toward a Theology of the Tao (2000), Contemporary Natural Sciences and Christianity (2006), Theology of the Tao II (2012), and A Global Korean Theology of Dasok Ryu Young-mo (2013), in Korean.\n\n"}
{"id": "41306208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41306208", "title": "Hinduism and Judaism", "text": "Hinduism and Judaism\n\nHinduism and Judaism are among the oldest existing religions in the world. The two share some similarities and interactions throughout both the ancient and modern worlds. \n\nScholarly efforts to compare Hinduism and Judaism were popular during the Enlightenment era, in the process of arguing the deistic worldview. Hananya Goodman states that Hinduism and Judaism have played an important role in European discussions of idolatry, spirituality, primitive, theories of race, language, mythologies, etc.\n\nBoth religions were regarded by some scholars to be ethnic religions, and not promoting conversions. Adherents of both religions, however, are found across the world. Both religions share common elements in regard to a complicated system of laws, purity codes, and dietary restrictions, for defining their communities.\n\nJudaism has been compared with Brahminism by Osho Rajneesh and Steven Rosen in their books. They cite the similarities between Brahmins and Jews who viewed themselves as \"God's chosen people.\" Rosen adds that Brahmins had a \"community of priests\" while Jews had a \"Kingdom of Priests\".\n\nDavid Flusser says that the tale of Abraham has many similarities with a certain story from the Upanishads, stating that \"One can easily discover parallels in the Upanishads to the Abraham legend\".\n\nAmerican biologist Constantine Samuel Rafinesque (1783-1840) in his book \"The American Nations\" discusses linguistic and traditional similarities between the two religions. In one chapter he writes:\n\n\"Our Noah- is thus NH (pr NOE) which the Jews since pronounced NUH, and even Mnuh! Exactly the same name as given him by the Hindus! And all meaning repose, with many collateral meanings, lawgiver, collecting people, assembly humanity & c. The laws of M'nu are preserved by the Hindus : to him is also ascribed the substance of the Vedas, and the whole Mosaic history till near his own death. But the Hindus have many- M'nus ; Adam and Seth were such, by the names of Adimo and Satya.\"\n\nBarbara Holdrege analyzed the comparative analysis in her writing, about the role of scriptures in Brahmanical, Rabbinic, and Kabbalistic traditions, and noted that cosmological conceptions of sacred scripture in which Veda and Torah are portrayed not merely as restricted corpus of texts, but as a multileveled cosmic reality that encircle both historical and transmundane dimensions. She adds further that sacred status, authority, and function of scripture in these traditions are to a certain extent shaped by these conceptions and thus such a study is essential for understanding the role of Veda and Torah as the paradigmatic signs of their respective traditions.\n\nJudaism, notable for its monotheistic conception of god, has some similarities with those Hindu scriptures that are monotheistic, such as the Vedas. In Judaism God is transcendent, while in Hinduism God is both immanent and transcendent.\n\nIn Judaism, god is called \"Yahweh\", Deuteronomy regard Yahweh as \"God of gods and Lord of lords\".\n\nDifferent Hindu sects have a variety of beliefs about the nature and identity of god, believing variously in monotheism, polytheism, pantheism, and panentheism. According to the Upanishads, the Mahabharata, and some Puranas, \"Narayana\" is the supreme deity. Today, the Vaishnavite sect considers Vishnu to be the supreme god, while Shaivites consider Shiva to be the supreme god.\n\nIn Judaism, God is an absolute one, indivisible and incomparable being who is the ultimate cause of all existence. In Hinduism, gods are considered to have a similar status to another when distinct, but may also be seen as \"aspects or manifestations of a single, transcendent god\", or an \"impersonal absolute\".\n\nBernard Jackson points out the extent to which legal regulations, customs, and royal ordinances in \"Halakha\" in the Jewish tradition and \"Dharmaśāstra\" among Hindus are binding on members of their respective societies. Jackson adds that both Jewish and Hindu law evidence a great sensitivity to the interplay of local custom and authoritative law. He says that in both religions, the writing down of a collection of norms did not necessarily mean that all or even most norms were intended to be enforced, and that the laws connected with royal authority were not necessarily statutory. Wendy Doniger states that Hinduism and Judaism are alike in their tendency toward orthopraxy rather than orthodoxy.\n\nAncient trade and cultural communication between India and the Levant is documented in the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea and the accounts surrounding Queen of Sheba in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nBhavishya Purana is regarded by a number of scholars to have predicted Judaism's prophet Moses, and similar parallels are found in Vedas.\n\nThe trade relations of both communities can be traced back to 1,000 BCE and earlier to the time of the Indus Valley Civilisation of the Indian subcontinent and the Babylonian culture of Middle East. A Buddhist story describes Indian merchants visiting \"Baveru\" (Babylonia) and selling peacocks for public display. Similar, earlier accounts describe monkeys exhibited to the public.\nAccording to Chaim Menachem Rabin, the connection between ancient Israel and the Indian subcontinent, was recorded during the reign of King Solomon (10th century BCE) in I Kings 10.22. It reads:\n\n\"For the king had Tarshish ships in the sea together with the ships of Hiram; once every three years the Tarshish ships arrived, carrying gold and silver, elephant tusks, monkeys and peacocks.\"\n\nStudies of Old Testament continue to be useful for tracing the history and culture of the Middle East. The Old Testament has also been helpful for understanding relations between these two traditions. Geographical analysis of Israel suggests that the authors of Old Testament were talking about India, where the selling of animals such as monkeys and peacocks existed.\nTrade connections between India and Palestine and Mediterranean Jewish communities continued, and later, the languages of these cultures started to share linguistic similarities.\n\nJews never faced persecution by Hindus, neither are there any records of Hindus facing persecution at the hands of Jews. The creation of Israel as a Jewish state was supported by Hindu nationalists, most notably M. S. Golwalkar, who said:\n\nThe Jews had maintained their race, religion, culture and language; and all they wanted was their natural territory to complete their Nationality.\n\nThe world's first Jewish-Hindu interfaith leadership summit, led by the World Council of Religious Leaders, Hindu organisations in India and Jewish organisations in Israel, as well as the American Jewish Committee, was held in New Delhi on February 2007. The summit included the then Chief Rabbi of Israel Yona Metzger, the American Jewish Committee's International Director of Interreligious Affairs David Rosen, a delegation of chief rabbis from around the world, and Hindu leaders from India. During the summit, Rabbi Metzger stated: “Jews have lived in India for over 2,000 years and have never been discriminated against. This is something unparalleled in human history.\"\n\nSwami Dayananda recognized the similarities of both religions and pointed to the belief in One supreme being, non-conversion, oral recitation of the Veda and the Torah, and the special importance of peace and non-violence. Savarupananda Saraswatiji explained that \"Both the Hindu and Jewish communities have a lot in common, we need to discover and nurture these areas for the benefit of millions of people.\" This meeting included Rabbis such as Daniel Sperber, Yona Metzger, and others. They affirmed a number of points, one of which was:\nTheir respective traditions teach that there is one supreme being who is the ultimate reality, who has created this world in its blessed diversity and who has communicated Divine ways of action for humanity, for different people in different times and places.\n\nIn 2008, a second Hindu-Jewish summit took place in Jerusalem. Included in the summit was a meeting between Hindu groups and then Israeli President Shimon Peres, where the importance of a strong Israeli-Indian relationship was discussed. The Hindu delegation also met with Israeli politicians Isaac Herzog and Majalli Whbee. Hindu groups visited and said their prayers at the Western Wall, and also paid their respects to Holocaust victims. In 2009, a smaller Hindu-Jewish interfaith meeting organized by the World council of Religious Leaders, Hindu American Foundation and the American Jewish Committee was held in New York and Washington. Hindu and Jewish representatives gave presentations, and participants wore lapel pins combining the Israeli, Indian, and American flags.\n\nAbout 5,000 Jews reside in India today. The Bnei Menashe are a group of more than 9,000 Jews from the Indian states Manipur and Mizoram who have resided in India since as early as 8th century BC. On 31 March 2005, Sephardi Rabbi, Shlomo Amar, one of Israel's two chief rabbis, accepted the Bnei Menashe's claim of being one of the ten lost tribes considering their devotion to Judaism. His decision was significant because it paved the way for all members of Bnei Menashe to enter Israel under Israel's Law of Return. In the past two decades, some 1,700 Bnei Menashe members have moved to Israel. Israel has reversed the policy of immigration for the remaining 7,200 Bnei Menashe.\n\nThere are some who profess a belief in \"both\" religions: they regard themselves as \"Hinjew\".\n\nMany Jews take vipassana and yoga as a supplement to traditional Hasidic musical meditation and dynamic meditation.\n\nAccording to a report by the Pew Research Center conducted in the US, of all religious groups, Hindus and Jews remain the most successful at retaining their adherents and are the two most educated groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3041391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3041391", "title": "Hōnen Matsuri", "text": "Hōnen Matsuri\n\nThe best known of these festivals takes place in the town of Komaki, just north of Nagoya City. The festival's main features are Shinto priests playing musical instruments, a parade of ceremonially garbed participants, all-you-can-drink sake, and a 280 kg (620 pound), 2.5 meter (96 inch)-long wooden phallus. The wooden phallus is carried from a shrine called Shinmei Sha (in even-numbered years) on a large hill or from Kumano-sha Shrine (in odd-numbered years), to a shrine called Tagata Jinja. \n\nThe festival starts with celebration and preparation at 10:00 a.m. at Tagata Jinja, where all sorts of foods and souvenirs (mostly phallus-shaped or related) are sold. Sake is also passed out freely from large wooden barrels. At about 2:00 p.m. everyone gathers at Shinmei Sha for the start of the procession. Shinto priests say prayers and impart blessings on the participants and \"mikoshi\", as well as on the large wooden phallus, which are to be carried along the parade route. \n\nWhen the procession makes its way down to Tagata Jinja the phallus in its \"mikoshi\" is spun furiously before it is set down and more prayers are said. Everyone then gathers in the square outside Tagata Jinja and waits for the \"mochi nage\", at which time the crowd is showered with small rice cakes which are thrown down by the officials from raised platforms. The festival concludes at about 4:30 p.m.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36309862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36309862", "title": "Irreligion in Sweden", "text": "Irreligion in Sweden\n\nSweden is one of the world's most secular and irreligious nations, partly because many Swedish people define themselves as irreligious but spiritual people. Phil Zuckerman, an Associate Professor of Sociology at Pitzer College, writes that several academic sources have in recent years placed atheism rates in Sweden between 46% and 85%, with one source reporting that only 17% of respondents self-identified as \"atheist\". A Gallup Poll in 2016 found that 18% of Swedes self report as atheist and 55% as non-religious.\n\nSweden's official website asserts that just three out of 10 Swedes state that they have confidence in the church. The article lists the following facts about religion in Sweden:\n\nStatistics from the Church of Sweden states that:\n\nMany Swedes attend church due to traditional or cultural reasons, but are otherwise not practicing Christians. One poll found that only 15% of Church of Sweden members actually believe in Jesus.\n\nRelatedly, the Swedish government has passed several secular reforms over the years; a legal opt-out of the previously mandatory 1.1% church tax was allowed in 1951, automatic birthright membership in the Church of Sweden - the organization's enrollment practice since the 1850s - ended in 1996, and the Church of Sweden was formally separated from the state in 2000, leaving Sweden as \"the only Nordic country without a state church\".\n"}
{"id": "30984257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30984257", "title": "Jakob Christoph Blarer von Wartensee", "text": "Jakob Christoph Blarer von Wartensee\n\nJakob Christoph Blarer von Wartensee (11 May 1542 – 18 April 1608) was a Bishop of Basel and a leader in the Counter-Reformation in the region around Basel.\n\nHe was born at Rosenberg Castle, the son of William, Prince-abbot of St. Gall and upper Vogt of Rosenberg, and Helen of Hallwyl. Between 1557–59 he was a student at Freiburg under the humanist Heinrich Glarean. In 1555 he was appointed to the Cathedral of Constance. He became a canon in 1559, and an archdeacon in 1570. In 1561 he moved to Basel's cathedral. He was unanimously elected Bishop of Basel on 22 June 1575, and on 4 May 1576 this election was confirmed by Pope Gregory XIII. He was ordained on 10 February 1577 and was granted an Imperial investiture on 15 November 1577.\n\nStarting in 1576, he was planning an alliance with the catholic cantons in order to restore the power of the Bishopric of Basel. Basel had converted to the Reformation during the first half of the 16th century. After costly negotiations and with the help of Ludwig Pfyffer von Altishofen and the nuncios Ninguarda Feliciano and Giovanni Francesco Bonomi, a catholic mutual assistance pact was signed on 28 September 1579 in Lucerne and all parties swore to uphold the pact on 11 January 1580 in Porrentruy. This provided a base of support for Blarer's goals; the Catholic renewal of the diocese's subjects, to prevent further removal of existing \"Burgrecht\" (rights between a town and the surrounding villages), the recovery of former Catholic dominions within and outside the city of Basel as well as restitution of cathedral's property.\n\nAfter the oath in Porrentruy, he began to spread the Counter-Reformation into the territories that surrounded Basel and had some political ties to the city. The resulting conflict between Basel and Blarer ended up before a Swiss Confederacy arbitration court and was settled in 1585 in the Baden Agreement. In it, the \"Burgrecht\" contracts between Basel and the Laufen and Delsberger Valleys as well as Freiberg were de facto resolved. The city agreed to pay a high compensation (200,000 guilders) for the Bishop's estates which had been taken by the city during the Reformation, and in matters of faith applied the principle \"Cuius regio, eius religio\". As early as 1590, the German bailiwicks were once Catholic. A similar agreement was concluded in 1599 with Bern which was known as the Biel Exchange. This agreement allowed for the city of Biel to be transferred to Bern, but Bern and others would waive the \"Burgrecht\" with the provost of Moutier-Grandval. However, this agreement faltered due to the opposition of the catholic cantons. The exchange finally occurred seven years later in the Treaty of 1606. In this treaty, the city provided an oath of allegiance, its influence in the \"Herrschaft\" of Erguel was restricted and the \"Burgrecht\" agreement with Bellelay Abbey was dissolved. However, Blarer's attempts to spread the Counter-Reformation to the southern bailiwicks were unsuccessful.\n\nThe targeted reform of the clergy began in 1581 with the proclamation of new statutes during the diocesan synod in Delémont. Two cycles of visitations (1586–90, 1601–04) led to the identification and elimination of irregularities in the parishes of the diocese. New liturgical books were distributed to the clergy which espoused the ideals of the Counter-Reformation. For recruiting and training new priests, he founded a Jesuit college in Porrentruy in 1591 and added a seminary in 1606. The latter, however, never really came to bloom and disappeared after a few decades. Starting in 1595, the College began to turn out Jesuits who met with great success in the diocese.\n\nWhile the Baden Agreement had helped the shattered finances of the diocese, Jakob Christoph now sought to prevent renewed debt. With the reopening and expansion of the mines and iron forges in Courrendlin, Undervelier and Belle Fontaine (now part of Saint-Ursanne) he created new revenue sources. Starting in 1589 he began to mint his own money. He also began to expand the political power of the diocese by opening a print shop and expanding his residence in Porrentruy. He died, aged 65, at Porrentruy.\n"}
{"id": "1619330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619330", "title": "Jeremy Narby", "text": "Jeremy Narby\n\nJeremy Narby (born 1959 in Montreal, Quebec) is a Canadian anthropologist and author. In his books, Narby examines shamanism and molecular biology, and shamans' knowledge of botanics and biology through the use of entheogens across many cultures.\n\nNarby grew up in Montreal, Canada, and Switzerland. He studied history at the University of Canterbury, and received a doctorate in anthropology from Stanford University.\n\nNarby spent several years living with the Ashaninca in the Peruvian Amazon cataloging indigenous uses of rainforest resources to help combat ecological destruction.\n\nNarby has written three books, as well as sponsored an expedition to the rainforest for biologists and other scientists to examine indigenous knowledge systems and the utility of Ayahuasca in gaining knowledge. The resulting documentary film was \"Night of the Liana\". \n\nSince 1989, Narby has been working as the Amazonian projects director for the Swiss NGO, Nouvelle Planète.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14156356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14156356", "title": "Jewish surname", "text": "Jewish surname\n\nJewish surnames are family names of Jews that are not pseudonyms. Jews have some of the largest varieties of surnames among any ethnic group, owing to the widespread Jewish diaspora that has existed for thousands of years, as well as cultural assimilation and fairly recent Hebraization of surnames. Some traditional surnames relate to Jewish history or roles within the religion, such as Cohen, Levi, Shulman, Sofer, or Kantor, while many others relate to a secular occupation or place names. The majority of Jewish surnames used today developed in the past three hundred years.\n\nHistorically, Jews used Hebrew patronymic names. In the Jewish patronymic system the first name is followed by either ben-\" or \"bat- (\"son of\" and \"daughter of,\" respectively), and then the father's name. (Bar-, \"son of\" in Aramaic, is also seen). Permanent family surnames exist today but only gained popularity among Sephardic Jews in Iberia and elsewhere as early as the 10th or 11th century and did not spread widely to the Ashkenazic Jews of Germany or Eastern Europe until the 18th and 19th century, where the adoption of German surnames was imposed in exchange for Jewish emancipation. An exception was members of the Cohanim (priestly caste) and Levites (descendants of Levi) who performed certain religious duties, who had always appended the surnames Cohen and Levi respectively (modern spelling in English may vary), which were usually preceded by \"ha\" meaning \"the\" in Hebrew.\n\nAlthough Ashkenazi Jews now use European or modern-Hebrew surnames for everyday life, the Hebrew patronymic form is still used in Jewish religious and cultural life. It is used in synagogue and in documents in Jewish law such as the ketubah (marriage contract).\n\nSurnames were not unknown among the Jews of the Middle Ages, and as Jews began to mingle more with their fellow citizens, the practice of using or adopting civic surnames in addition to the \"sacred\" name, used only in religious connections, grew commensurately. Among the Sephardim this practice was common long before the exile from Spain, and probably became still more common as a result of the example of the conversos, who on adopting Christianity accepted in most cases the family names of their godfathers. Among the Ashkenazim, whose isolation from the mainstream majority population in the lands where they lived was more complete, the use of surnames only started in most places to become common in the eighteenth century.\n\nThe use of surnames became common very early among the Arabic-speaking Jews, who naturally carried the custom into the Iberian Peninsula (modern Spain and Portugal). Among Sephardi Jews are found such names as Abeldano, corresponding to \"Ibn el-Danan\"; Abencabre, corresponding to \"Ibn Zabara\"; Avinbruch, corresponding to \"Ibn Baruch\", Beizaee, corresponding to Iza (Hebrew root for \"God is perfection\"). \n\nHagen corresponds to Hassan or Hazan; and the like. Biblical names often take curious forms in the Iberian records, \"Isaac\" appearing as Acaz, \"Cohen\" as Coffen or , \"Yom-Ṭob\" as Bondia, \"Ẓemaḥ\" as Crescas or and Cresquez.\n\nThe \"Ḥen\" family appears to have adopted a translation of the name of their home village, Gracia, near Barcelona. Indeed, among the Sephardi the tendency to adopt family names from localities is largely developed; hence were derived such names as Espinosa, Gerondi, Cavalleria, De La Torre, del Monte, Lousada, and Villa Real. The name \"Sasportas\" deserves special attention, as it is really the Balearic dialectal form of La Porta. The \"Asturias\" family name was also said to be adopted by Sephardic Jews who had migrated to the northern province of Spain, which is also called Asturias.\n\nMany families, especially among New Christians (Jewish converts to Catholicism) and Crypto-Jews, but not restricted to them, took Spanish and Portuguese family names, sometimes using translations (such as \"Vidal\"/\"de Vidas\" for \"Hayyim\", \"Lobos\" for \"Zev\", \"de Paz\" for \"Shalom\", and \"de la Cruz\" or \"Espírito Santo\" for \"Ruah\"); phonetic similarities according to a kinnui-like system, sometimes choosing between already existing ones (such as \"Pizarro\"/\"Pissarro\", \"Mendes\", \"Fonseca\", \"Calle\" or \"Rodrígues\"); even given names (for example, \"de Jesus\" or \"de Miguel\"). Julio Caro Baroja, supporting José Leite de Vasconcelos' thesis in his \"Anthroponymy Portuguesa, 4\" argues, for example, that the surnames related to \"calle\" (English: \"street\"), that would be the equivalent in something like a ghetto, are of Jewish origin. This is the case of Alonso Calle, treasurer on the first voyage of Christopher Columbus to the Americas, who was one of the settlers of Sephardic origin who composed the crew.\n\nJews have historically used Hebrew patronymic names. While permanent family surnames started appearing among Sephardic Jews in Iberia and elsewhere as early as the 10th or 11th century, they did not spread widely to the Ashkenazic Jews of Germany or Eastern Europe until later. However, Non-Ashkenazi Jews who had immigrated to what was considered Ashkenaz (such as Sephardic Jews who fled the Inquisition) would often keep their surnames and/or Ashkenazize them (e.g., \"Melamad\" was kept; \"Leoni\" would be Ashkenazized to \"Leib\"), and some of the already-settled Jews in communities in large cities (such as Prague or Frankfurt am Main) began to adopt various surnames. The names of bread-winning women, such as \"Sirkes\" or \"Rivkes\", were adopted by some households while others came from the man's trade such as \"Metzger\" (butcher) or \"Becker\" (baker) and a few derived from personal attributes, such as \"Jaffe\" (beautiful), or special events in the family history. The majority of Middle Age surname adoption came from place names, often a town name, typically the birthplace of the founder of a rabbinical or other dynasty. These names would permutate to various forms as families moved, such as the original \"Welsch\" becoming \"Wallach\", \"Wlock\" or \"Block\". Since these surnames did not have the official status that modern ones do, often the old surname would be dropped and a new one adopted after the family moved their household.\n\nMany surnames in the Netherlands derived from the German versions. For example, Waal derived from Wahl and Voorzanger (Chazan) derived from Voorsanger.\nThe process of assigning permanent surnames to Jewish families (most of which are still used to this day) began in Austria. On 23 July 1787, five years after the Edict of Tolerance, the Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II issued a decree called \"Das Patent über die Judennamen\" which compelled the Jews to adopt German surnames. Prussia did so soon after, beginning with Silesia: the city of Breslau in 1790, the Breslau administrative region in 1791, the Liegnitz region in 1794. In 1812, when Napoleon had occupied much of Prussia, surname adoption was mandated for the unoccupied parts; and Jews in the rest of Prussia adopted surnames in 1845.\n\nNapoleon also, in a decree of July 20, 1808, insisted upon the Jews adopting fixed names. His decree covered all lands west of the Rhine; and many other parts of Germany required surname-adoption within a few years. The city of Hamburg was the last German state to complete the process, in 1849.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century after the Partition of Poland and later after the Congress of Vienna the Russian Empire acquired a large number of Jews who did not use surnames. They, too, were required to adopt surnames during the 19th century.\n\nIn medieval France the use of Biblical names appears to have been more extended, judging by the elaborate lists at the end of Gross's \"Gallia Judaica.\" True surnames occurred, especially in the south, like \"Farissol\", \"Bonet\", \"Barron\", \"Lafitte\"; but as a rule local distinctions were popular, as \"Samson of Sens\", etc.\n\nThe early Jews of England, who spoke French throughout their stay, also used Biblical names; the most popular name, in the 12th century at least, being \"Isaac\", next to which came \"Joseph\". On both sides of the British Channel there was a tendency to translate Biblical names into French, as Deulesalt for \"Isaiah\", Serfdeu for \"Obadiah\", Deudone for Elhanan, but the ordinary popular names were adopted also, as Beleasez, Fleurdelis, and Muriel for Jewish women, or Amiot, Bonevie, Bonenfaund, Bonfil, among men. Deulacres and \"Crescas\" both occur (probably corresponding to \"Solomon\" or \"Gedaliah\").\n\nMany immigrants to modern Israel change their names to Hebrew names, to erase remnants of \"galuti\" (exiled) life still surviving in family names from other languages. This phenomenon is especially common among Ashkenazic Jewish immigrants to Israel, because most of their surnames were taken recently, and many were imposed by authorities in Europe as a replacement for the traditional Hebrew patronymic form.\n\nA popular form to create a new family name using Jewish patronymics sometimes related to poetic Zionist themes, such as \"ben Ami\" (\"son of my people\"), or \"ben Artzi\" (\"son of my country\"), and sometimes related to the Israeli landscape, such as \"bar Ilan\" (\"son of the trees\"). Others have created Hebrew names based on phonetic similarity with their original family name: \"Golda Meyersohn\" became Golda Meir. Another famous person who used a false patronymic was the first Israeli Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion, whose original family name was Grün (\"green\" in German) but adopted the name \"Ben-Gurion\" (\"son of the lion cub\"), not \"Ben-Avigdor\" (his father's name).\n\nMost of the Jews in Iran had no permanent surnames before Reza Shah. After surnames became mandatory many Persian Jews employed job related names as their surnames. Many Jews worked in non-Muslim professions like goldsmith, silversmith, dealers of coins, money changing and seller of spirits. Others engaged in Medicine, silk manufacturing and weaving, locksmith, tailors, shoe makers, merchants of second hand items. Many other Jews were engaged in jewelry trading, opium and wine manufacturing, musicians, dancers, scavengers, peddlers and other professions that were generally deemed non-respectful.\n\nMany Jews adopted these professions as their surnames, such as Abrishami (silk maker), Almasi (diamond maker), Boloorian (crystal maker), Dehghan (wealthy farmer), Fallah (farmer), Zarrinkoob, Javaherian, Gohari (gold seller), Noghrehforosh (silversmith), Mesforosh (coppersmith), Sarraf, Sarrafan, Sarraf Nezhad, Banki (money changer), Zargar, Zarshenas (goldsmith), Hakakian or Hakkakian (connected with raw material, finished product or implements associated with that trade) for example Roya Hakakian. Jews in Iran also employed the son of or daughter of patronymics, using Persian suffixes such as -pour (son of), -zadeh (born of), -nezhad (from the race of) and -ian (from the group of). Some examples of these names include Davoud pour (son of David), Davoud nezhad (from the seed of David), Davoud zadeh (born of David), Rabbi pour (son of a rabbi), Rabbi zadeh (born of a rabbi), Yaghoub pour (son of Jacob) and Jafar nezhad (from the race of Japhet). Levite and Kohanim surnames became Lavi, Lavaee, Lavi Zadeh, Lavaeeian, Kohan, Kohan pour (son of a Kohen), etc. Many Persian last names are consisted of three parts in order to distinguish from other families with similar last names. Some Persian Jewish families that had similar surnames to their Muslim neighbors added a second surname at the end of their last names. As an example Jafar nezhad Levian (From the race of Japhet and from the Tribe of Levite). The purpose of Levian at the end is to distinguish from Muslim Jafar nezhad (From the race of Japhet).\n\nMany Jews employed the Turkish suffix -chi (meaning merchant of) to denote their profession. Examples of such include Abrishamchi (silk merchant), Saatchi (watch seller), Talachi (gold seller), Noghrechi (silver seller), Arakchi (merchant of alcoholic drinks), Meschi (copper merchant), Aeenechi (merchant of mirrors), etc.\n\nMany modern Jewish surnames are derived from place names. There are general names like Deutsch, Frank, Franco, Frankel, and more localized ones from almost every European country.\n\nThe Netherlands has contributed Leuwarden, Neumegen, Limburg, van Thal, and various other vans, as van Ryn (Rhine), etc.\n\nGermany has contributed the largest number. Some refer to well-known cities as Speyer (in the Middle Ages Spira) (hence Shapira or Shapiro), Posen (hence Posner and Posener, as well as Pozner), Berlin (hence Berliner and Berlinsky), Breslau (anglicised to \"Bresslaw\"), Bingen, Cassel (cf. David Cassel), Treves (whence, according to some authorities, originated the very popular Alsatian name of Dreyfus), Dresden, Fulda (hence Foulde), and Oppenheim; others, to less familiar towns, like Auerbach, Bischoffsheim, Utting am Ammersee (hence Utting), Hildesheim (Hildesheimer), Landshuth, Sulzberg. House signs such as those in the \"Frankfurter Judengasse\" gave rise to the names of some of the best known of Jewish families: Rothschild (\"red shield\"), Schwarzschild (\"black shield\"), Adler (\"eagle\"), Ganz or Gans (\"goose\"), Strauß (\"ostrich\"), and Ochs (\"ox\"). Some names may seem to be derived artificially, but can also refer to towns, e.g., Birnbaum (translated into \"Peartree\"), Rosenberg, Kornberg, Sommerfeld, Grünberg (hence Greenberg), Goldberg, and Rubinstein/Rubenstein.\n\nThe English Crawcour (cf. Siegfried Kracauer) comes from Cracow, while \"van Praag(h)\" is the name of a Prague family that settled in the Netherlands before going over to England. The name Gordon may in some cases be derived from the Russian Grodno but is also said to have been adopted by Jews in the Russian Empire in honor of Lord George Gordon (1751–1793), a Scottish nobleman who converted to Judaism in 1787 in Birmingham.\n\nFrom Poland have come names such as Polano, Pollock, Polack, Polak, Pollak, Poole, Pool, and Polk. The names Altschul or Altschuler are derived from the \"Altschul\" (\"old school/synagogue\") of Prague.\n\nSephardic surnames, as already mentioned, are almost invariably local, as Almanzi, Castro, Carvajal, Silva, Leon, Navarro, Robles, Sevilla (Spanish), and Almeida, Carvallo, Lisbona, Miranda, Paiva, Porto, Pieba and Verdugo (Portuguese). Many Italian names are also of this class, as Alatino, Genovese (from Genoa), Meldola, Montefiore, Mortara, Pisa, Rizzolo, Romanelli (with its variants Romanin, Romain, Romayne, and Romanel), Vitalis (from Jaim or Chaim and its variants Vidal, Vidale and Vidas); Verdugo and its variants Berdugo, Bardogo, Paradiso an anagram for the word diaspora (dispersion). \n\nEven in the East there are names of these last two classes, Behar (from Bejar), Barron (from BarOn), Galante, Veneziani, though there are a few Arabic names like Alfandari and Ḥaggis; Greek, as Galipapa and Pappo; and a few Turkish, as Jamila, Gungur, Bilbil, and Sabad. Going still farther east, the curious custom which prevails among the Bene Israel may be mentioned of changing Biblical names to similar Hindu names with the addition of \"-jee\", thus Benjamin into Benmajee, Abraham into Abrajee, David into Dawoodjee, Jacob into Akkoobjee.\n\nTurning to the next great source from which have been derived the Jewish and German-Jewish surnames used in ordinary nomenclature—trades and occupations—such names as Kaufmann and Marchant (\"merchant\") become prominent. Others of the same kind are: Banks, Brauer, Breyer, and Brower (\"brewer\"); Spielmann (\"musician\"); Gerber (tanner); Steinschneider (\"stonecutter\"); Graveur (\"engraver\"); Shoemark or Schumacher (\"shoemaker\"); Schuster (\"cobbler\"); Schneider, Schneiders, and Snyders (\"tailor\"; in Hebrew חייט, Chait/Khait (and at times Hyatt)); Wechsler (\"money-changer\"). Related, and likewise generically German, names are derived metonymically for a common object or tool of a profession: e.g., Hammer for a blacksmith, Feder (\"quill\") for a scribe, and Lein (\"linen\") for a dealer in cloth.\n\nBut there are others that are more distinctively Jewish: \"Parnass\", \"Gabbay\", Singer, Cantor, Voorsanger, Chazan, Cantarini, from the synagogue officials who were so called; Shochet, Schaechter, Schechter, from the ritual slaughterer (also Schub or Shub: Hebrew acronym for 'shochet u-bodek'/ritual slaughterer and kosher meat inspector); Shadkun, a marriage-broker; Rabe, Rabinowitz, Rabinovich, Rabinowicz, and Rabbinovitz, rabbis (occasionally Anglicized to Robinson or Robbins); Benmohel (one variant of which is Mahler), son of one who performed circumcision, the sacred rite of Abraham. A number of Arabic names are of similar origin: Al-Fakhkhar, a potter; Mocatta, a mason or possibly a soldier (\"Al-Muḳatil\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "898530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898530", "title": "Kabbalah Centre", "text": "Kabbalah Centre\n\nThe Kabbalah Centre International is a non-profit organization located in Los Angeles, California that provides courses on the Zohar and Kabbalistic teachings online as well as through its regional and city-based centers and study groups worldwide. The presentation of Kabbalah was developed by its director, Philip Berg, along with his wife, Karen Berg. The Kabbalah Centre International has a multi-ethnic, international staff of teachers that offers kabbalistic study and guidance to its worldwide student community.\n\nTraditionally, rabbis believed that the mysteries of Kabbalah were so complex and so easily misunderstood that it could only be taught to devout students (mostly males) only after age 40. Therefore, some traditionalists had seen the Kabbalah Centre as a perversion of Judaism's ancient and secretive mystic tradition.\n\nThe Kabbalah Centre was founded in the United States in 1965 as The National Research Institute of Kabbalah by Philip Berg (born Feivel Gruberger) and Yehuda Tzvi Brandwein. Brandwein in turn was the dean of Yeshivah Kol Yehuda in Israel (a precursor of the US Kabbalah Centres) which was founded in 1922. After Brandwein's death, and after several years in Israel, Philip Berg and his wife Karen Berg, re-established the U.S. Kabbalah Centre in New York City.\n\nThe Kabbalah Centre in Los Angeles was opened in 1984. After the death of Berg, Karen and Michael Berg act as directors and spiritual teachers of the organization. The organization is a registered non-profit with over fifty branches worldwide, including major ones in Los Angeles, New York City, London and Toronto.\n\nThe Kabbalah Centre does not have a membership requirement, everyone is welcome.\n\nThe Kabbalah Centre's approach to teaching is to start students with teachings of Kabbalah that do not make previous knowledge of Hebrew and Jewish texts a prerequisite for understanding.\n\nAccording to its views, all widely held spiritual or religious belief systems are merely specific branches of a universal wisdom. The effect of this is a resemblance of religions such as Christianity, Judaism, Islam and Buddhism, as well as new-age teachings, to Kabbalah. In accordance with this belief, the Kabbalah Centre does not present itself as an alternative to any religion in particular, but rather, as a supplement to it.\n\nSome biblical passages, such as the Passage of the Red Sea, are understood to be codes to life and unseen universal laws which the Zohar and writings of the Kabbalists throughout history unravel. According to Berg \"The Zohar reveals the dynamic interplay and interconnectedness of our universe and man's relationship to it.\" The Kabbalah Centre has produced a series of the Books of the Bible with Kabbalistic commentaries to each of the Weekly portion of the Torah.\n\nOne should primarily be concerned with their relationship with the essence of God, rather than God himself, as he is beyond comprehension. The essence of God is referred to in its teachings as Light.\n\nThe five senses provide access to a mere 1% of reality, which is the byproduct of a 99% reality that cannot be accessed by the senses.\n\nKabbalah Centre teaches the Kabbalistic concept of Klippot. The idea is that everyone has a direct and clear connection to the upper metaphysical-spiritual world of the Light (Ein Sof, unbounded God), but that this channel is blocked by Klippot, restricting the spiritual energy from entering the physical body. It is through study and practice of Kabbalah teachings and Jewish law (which the Kabbalah Centre says is early rabbinistic construction to aid in practicing Kabbalah without revealing its secrets) that one removes Klippot, and it is by violence and negative behavior that one adds Klippot.\n\nThe Kabbalah Centre has a strong belief in astrology and asserts that astrology has always been part of Judaism. Astrology was studied by Jewish scholars throughout the Middle Ages, though it was opposed by more philosophically inclined thinkers such as Maimonides.\n\nThere is a strong belief in the Kabbalah tradition that cosmic forces affect everything, and knowing how to understand them can prove to be valuable to the aspiring Kabbalist. Berg, the founder of the Kabbalah Centre, wrote numerous books on astrology during his career.\n\nIn a book written by Yehuda Berg, a former teacher at the center, he recommended that men not masturbate as semen generated without loving, shared intention does not serve its purpose. He also wrote that a man should not orgasm before the woman, as it injects selfishness into the act of love making. Other thoughts on sex include that a man should not orgasm with the woman positioned above him, as she is then drawing energies into herself from below, instead of above. The most Light is derived from sex that occurs just after midnight on Saturday morning.\n\nMadonna studies regularly with a personal Kabbalah Centre rabbi, no longer gives concerts on Friday night (which is the onset of Shabbat), wears the red string around her left wrist for protection and to ward off the \"evil eye\" (\"Ayin Hara\"), has introduced Jewish ritual objects such as tefillin (\"phylacteries\") into her videos and tithes regularly to the Kabbalah Centre. In July 2006, it was reported that Madonna was leaving the Kabbalah Centre and one media columnist speculated that one reason was alleged financial irregularities of donations to the centre. Despite uncorroborated allegations of financial irregularities, the rumour turned out to be false, and Madonna continued to attend Kabbalah Centre events. In August 2006, Madonna collaborated with the Kabbalah Centre on a project called Raising Malawi, which provided relief aid to the African nation of Malawi. In March 2016, Madonna and her son Rocco attended a Kabbalah Centre prayer session as she attempted to fix her relationship with him.\n\nOther celebrities that have been associated with the Centre include Britney Spears, Roseanne Barr, Sandra Bernhard, Anthony Kiedis, Ashton Kutcher, Demi Moore, Mick Jagger, Jerry Hall, Lucy Liu, Alex Rodriguez, Rosie O'Donnell, Naomi Campbell, Donna Karan, Elizabeth Taylor, Mischa Barton, Paris Hilton, Ariana Grande Nicole Richie, James Van Der Beek, Kyle Richards, Heather McComb and Lindsay Lohan.\n\nAccording to media sources, some of these celebrities have since stopped studying with the Kabbalah Centre.\n\nFrom almost every corner of traditional Judaism, the Kabbalah Centre was rejected as a spiritual fraud. Beginning in 2011 the Centre was put under investigation by the IRS and FBI for financial malfeasance, following the abandonment of the Raising Malawi school project with millions of donors' dollars unaccounted for. In 2012, a Kabbalah Centre charity, Spirituality for Kids, accepted a $600,000 donation from an 87-year-old woman who some claim had dementia. In November 2013, two lawsuits were filed by former donors alleging that their gifts were misused.\n\nOther media criticisms have alleged that The Kabbalah Centre is an \"opportunistic offshoot of the faith, with charismatic leaders who try to attract the rich and the vulnerable with the promise of health, wealth, and happiness.\" Some Jewish organizations distinguish it as non-Jewish and consider its patronage by Jews problematic. The Centre's sale of Kabbalah-themed merchandise has been criticized as a perversion of Judaism's ancient and secretive mystic tradition.\n\nAccording to a BBC news article, Eliyahu Yardeni, a senior figure in the London Kabbalah Centre, made controversial comments regarding the Holocaust. The Kabbalah Centre also made claims that spring water sold by the group had among its effects a curative effect on cancer.\n\nIn November 2015, the centre was ordered to pay $42,500 damages to one of its former students after it was found to have been negligent in the supervision of one of its co-directors, Yehuda Berg, who had caused emotional distress to the student.\n\nThe Kabbalah Centre donates to non-profit organizations and engages in volunteer work through its Charitable Causes initiative. Charitable Causes has worked with or donated to Habitat for Humanity, Partners in Health, American Red Cross, and Sunrise Day Camp.\n\n"}
{"id": "1611039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1611039", "title": "Kol Mevasser", "text": "Kol Mevasser\n\nKol Mevasser (Yiddish: קול מבשר) was a Yiddish language periodical that appeared from October 11, 1862 into 1872. It is considered by Sol Liptzin and others to be the most important early Yiddish-language periodical (although by no means the first: the short-lived \"Die Kuranten\" in Amsterdam pre-dated it by centuries).\n\nFounded by Alexander Zederbaum as a supplement to his Hebrew language weekly \"Hamelitz\", during its last three years \"Kol Mevasser\" functioned independently. Unlike any earlier Yiddish publication, it circulated over a wide territory, with readers throughout Eastern Europe, but was based on the Southeastern (\"Ukrainish\") Yiddish dialect, indigenous to the region of its production (Odessa).\n\nCoverage included events both in the Jewish and gentile world, and extended to science, education, history, geography, and literature. It ran biographies of famous rabbis, reviewed Yiddish writers such as Israel Aksenfeld, Shlomo Ettinger, and A. B. Gotlober, and launched the careers of a generation of Yiddish writers.\n\nIt published the first Yiddish-language fiction of Mendele Mocher Sforim, a tale called \"Dos kleine mentshele\" (\"The Little Man\"), with the first installment appearing in November 1863. Yitzhok Yoel Linetzky got his start in \"Kol Mevasser\", and it was the first to publish Yiddish poetry by Abraham Goldfaden, who, like Mendele, had already published in Hebrew.\n\nThe decade-long run and relatively professional editorial standards of \"Kol Mevasser\" helped to standardize Yiddish spelling, enrich its vocabulary, establish patterns of written usage, and generally increase the prestige of the language.\n\n"}
{"id": "43956288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43956288", "title": "Kshatra Vairya", "text": "Kshatra Vairya\n\nKshatra Vairya Avestan: \"𐬑𐬱𐬀𐬙𐬭𐬀 𐬬𐬀𐬌𐬭𐬌𐬌𐬀\" xšatra vairiia (also Šahrewar Middle Persian:𐭱𐭲𐭥𐭩𐭥𐭥 , and Xšaθra 𐬑𐬱𐬀𐬚𐬭𐬀 (a cognate of Sanskrit Kshatriya in the Avestan language, from Proto-Indo-Iranian \"*kšatrám\") is the third of the great six \"divine sparks\" of Ahura Mazda in the Zoroastrian religion.\n\nThe spelling \"Xšaθra\" is used by followers of the Zoroastrian faith in a representation of the dominion of the Creator Ahura Mazda. In the cosmology of the faith, Kshathra Vairya is borne of the divine principal of Vohu Manah, from which comes the core belief of 'Good Thoughts'.\n\nIn the Gathas, \"Xšaθra Vairya\" does not have an association with a specific creation, and it is only in later texts that this Amesha Spenta is considered the guardian of metals. This anomaly is explained in modern scholarship by the fact that, in Stone Age cosmogony, the sky was considered to be the first of the creations (and thought to be of stone), but metal has no place among the creations (the bronze and Iron Ages were yet to come). This is also reflected in Zoroaster's revelation, where the sky is \"of the hardest stone\" (\"Yasna\" 30.5). Later, with the event of bronze and then iron tools, this sky evolved to being of crystal, which was seen as both of stone and of metal (\"Yasht\" 13.2). In due course, Xšaθra's association with a stony firmament was eclipsed by the association with a metallic sky, and thence to metals in general.\n"}
{"id": "1369385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1369385", "title": "Lady Gwen Thompson", "text": "Lady Gwen Thompson\n\nLady Gwen Thompson (September 16, 1928 – May 22, 1986) was the pseudonym of Phyllis Thompson, author and teacher of traditionalist initiatory witchcraft through her own organisation, the New England Covens of Traditionalist Witches.\nLady Gwen claimed to be a hereditary witch, with connections to the Salem witch trials of 1692, though she could not provide original sources to support these assertions. When she published a supposedly ancient poem called \"The Rede of the Wiccae\", it was believed by some to be partly her own work.\n\nPhyllis Thompson (née Healy) claimed to be a hereditary witch from New England. She was best known by the pseudonym (or public Craft name) of Lady Gwen Thompson, though she changed the forename to Gwynne in the 1980s. Thompson was her final married surname.\n\nAccording to Thompson, her grandmother Adriana Porter's family were the carriers of a secret tradition of folk witchcraft that had come down through Sarah Arnot Cook and Wealthy Trask (Trash) from the latter's seventeenth-century ancestors. Porter had initiated her and her mother into the family's tradition and given them their \"Craft Names\".\n\nAt first Thompson intended to keep the tradition within her family, subsequently initiating her children and grandchildren into them. However, her son and his family left the family tradition, joining the Christian religion and raising their children within it and her daughter had no children. Fearing that her traditions would be completely lost, she began \"fostering\" outsiders into it as family members; she began initiating them in the late 1960s.\n\nBy 1970 she had informally created the organization now known as the New England Covens of Traditionalist Witches (N.E.C.T.W.) (currently listed in the State of Rhode Island as a subsidiary of Society of the Evening Star.) Around 1974 Thompson retired from leading the N.E.C.T.W. and turned it over to two of its early members; the leadership has undergone several changes in the intervening years.\n\nThompson's claims to be an hereditary witch have little independent support, since she states that she destroyed the original version of her grandmother's lore-book after copying its contents, and recopied her own book several times throughout her lifetime. While a recent book by Robert Mathiesen and Theitic documents a long history of occultism within Thompson's ancestry, including the seventeenth-century alchemist, Jonathan Brewster, as well as several of the families on both sides of the Salem witch trials of 1692, there is no direct evidence of the veracity of Thompson's claims as she, her mother and any others who could have provided first-hand information are all deceased, and any written documentation has not been made public.\n\nIn 1975, Thompson had an article entitled \"Wiccan-Pagan Potpourri\" published in \"Green Egg\" magazine issue #69 (Ostara 1975), for which she is best known. A portion of that article included a poem consisting of 26 rhyming couplets entitled \"The Rede of the Wiccae\", stating that \n\"... Our own particular form of the Wiccan Rede is that which was passed on to her heirs by Adriana Porter, who was well into her nineties when she crossed over into the Summerland in the year 1946. ...\".\nAlthough Thompson wrote that this version of the Rede was in its original form, this declaration is disputed for several reasons, but primarily as the language of the poem refers to Wiccan concepts that are not known to have existed in her grandmother's lifetime. It is sometime ascribed to Thompson herself. Mathiesen and Theitic concluded that 18 to 20 of the verses are lore which would be common to the area of rural 17th to 19th century New England and compiled by the hand of someone who would have been born no later that the late 19th century, and that at least six of the verses which are deemed “The Wiccan Verses” were compiled and added by a second and later hand. Since Thompson was dispensing these 26 as a whole from around 1969 it is a reasonable assumption that hers was that second hand. Another claim is that it is adapted from a speech given by Doreen Valiente at a dinner sponsored by the Witchcraft Research Association and mentioned in volume one (1964) of the Pentagram, a United Kingdom pagan newsletter then being published. Valiente did publish a similarly worded and entitled poem \"The Witches Creed\" in her 1978 book, \"Witchcraft for Tomorrow\".\n\nThe Green Egg publication listed her by-line as \"Lady Gwen Thompson, Welsh Tradition Wicca\", which was a tag of their own creation. This sparked a protest by Thompson in issue #71 with a subsequent letter from her and an apology from then-editor Oberon Zell-Ravenheart (then known as Tim Zell) in issue #72.\n\nThompson stated in her opening letter \"... For the record, we are not Welsh. I do believe we ran this route a few years ago, and it seems that once more clarification is needed. We are and always have been simply Traditionalist. We use the term Celtic Traditionalist to differentiate us from the ones who claim to be Welsh, and I know of only one tradition that has the right to use that name. If there are others, I do not know of them. My apologies, but we are not Welsh. We prefer to be simply known as \"Traditionalists. ...\"\n\nWhile Thompson maintained the use of the term Witch and Witchcraft in her teachings and writings, by this time the term Wicca was becoming more fashionable to use in place of Witch/Witchcraft, as being a \"less-charged\" word. This has led to numerous instances of Thompson's Tradition and its practitioners being labeled as Celtic Wicca despite her stated objections and preference for the term \"Traditionalist\".\n\nThompson remained active in teaching her form of witchcraft into the 1980s, carrying on an extensive, worldwide correspondence. Through her letters and teachings she contributed to the development of other traditions, including the Keepers of the Ancient Mysteries, the Georgian Tradition and others. Her own tradition of the N.E.C.T.W. developed offshoots as well, including the and the Groves of the Tuatha de Danaan and others; these offshoots are not recognized as an actual part of the N.E.C.T.W. although their historical connections to it are acknowledged.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Thompson was diagnosed with cancer, and subsequently died May 22, 1986 while on a visit to Nova Scotia, Canada.\n\nMany of Thompson's Craft artifacts, including her personal book, are in the possession of the N.E.C.T.W., having been given them by her daughter, mother and other family members.\n\n\n1. \n\n2. State of Rhode Island, Office of the Secretary of State webpage retrieved 20 November 2007.\n\n3. A directory of religious bodies in the United States\ncompiled from the files of the Institute for the Study of American Religion [by] J. Gordon Melton with James V. Geisendorfer Publisher: New York : Garland Pub., 1977.\n\n4. Green Egg magazine, Issue #69, Ostara 1975, pp 9–11 \"Wiccan-Pagan Potpourri\" by Lady Gwen Thompson (an online transcript of this document is under \"External links\")\n\n5. Doreen Valiente, Witchcraft for Tomorrow, 1978, pages 41, 72-74 (also as noted at The Wiccan Rede: A Historical Journey); see also The Witches Creed at controverscial.com.\n\n6. Theitic of the N.E.C.T.W., 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "12225996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12225996", "title": "Latin Mass Society of Ireland", "text": "Latin Mass Society of Ireland\n\nThe Latin Mass Society of Ireland (LMSI), founded in 1999, is a Roman Catholic society based in Ireland that is dedicated to the preservation of the traditional Latin Mass as one of the forms of the Church's liturgy and to making it more widely available. The Society is composed predominantly of lay members and is headed by Nick Lowry. It also includes a number of priests who wish to minister to those who request access to the sacraments in the 1962 form in accordance with the motu proprio \"Summorum Pontificum\". Its Chaplain is the Very Rev. Michael Cahill of the Meath Diocese.\n\nThe Latin Mass Society of Ireland works at promoting the traditional Mass through pilgrimages, Masses and in the press. Its favoured means of communication include its website and an occasional newsletter entitled Traditio Viva. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "143130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143130", "title": "Leprechaun", "text": "Leprechaun\n\nA leprechaun () is a type of fairy of the Aos Sí in Irish folklore. They are usually depicted as little bearded men, wearing a coat and hat, who partake in mischief. They are solitary creatures who spend their time making and mending shoes and have a hidden pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. If captured by a human, they often grant three wishes in exchange for their freedom. Like other Irish fairies, leprechauns may be derived from the Tuatha Dé Danann. Leprechaun-like creatures rarely appear in Irish mythology and only became prominent in later folklore.\n\nThe name \"leprechaun\" is derived from the Irish word , defined by Patrick Dinneen as \"a pigmy, a sprite, or leprechaun\". The further derivation is less certain; according to most sources, the word is thought to be a corruption of Middle Irish \"luchrupán\", from the Old Irish , a compound of the roots \"lú\" (\"small\") and \"corp\" (\"body\"). The root \"corp\", which was borrowed from the Latin \"corpus\", attests to the early influence of Ecclesiastical Latin on the Irish language. The alternative spelling \"leithbrágan\" stems from a folk etymology deriving the word from \"leith\" (half) and \"bróg\" (brogue), because of the frequent portrayal of the leprechaun as working on a single shoe.\n\nAlternative spellings in English have included \"lubrican\", \"leprehaun\", and \"lepreehawn\". Some modern Irish books use the spelling \"lioprachán\". The first recorded instance of the word in the English language was in Dekker's comedy \"The Honest Whore, Part 2\" (1604): \"As for your Irish lubrican, that spirit / Whom by preposterous charms thy lust hath rais'd / In a wrong circle.\"\n\nThe earliest known reference to the leprechaun appears in the medieval tale known as the \"Echtra Fergus mac Léti\" (\"Adventure of Fergus son of Léti\"). The text contains an episode in which Fergus mac Léti, King of Ulster, falls asleep on the beach and wakes to find himself being dragged into the sea by three \"lúchorpáin\". He captures his abductors, who grant him three wishes in exchange for release.\n\nThe leprechaun is said to be a solitary creature, whose principal occupation is making and mending shoes, and who enjoys practical jokes. According to William Butler Yeats, the great wealth of these fairies comes from the \"treasure-crocks, buried of old in war-time\", which they have uncovered and appropriated. According to David Russell McAnally the leprechaun is the son of an \"evil spirit\" and a \"degenerate fairy\" and is \"not wholly good nor wholly evil\".\n\nThe leprechaun originally had a different appearance depending on where in Ireland he was found. Prior to the 20th century, it was generally held that the leprechaun wore red, not green. Samuel Lover, writing in 1831, describes the leprechaun as... quite a beau in his dress, notwithstanding, for he wears a red square-cut coat, richly laced with gold, and inexpressible of the same, cocked hat, shoes and buckles.\n\nAccording to Yeats, the solitary fairies, like the leprechaun, wear red jackets, whereas the \"trooping fairies\" wear green. The leprechaun's jacket has seven rows of buttons with seven buttons to each row. On the western coast, he writes, the red jacket is covered by a frieze one, and in Ulster the creature wears a cocked hat, and when he is up to anything unusually mischievous, he leaps on to a wall and spins, balancing himself on the point of the hat with his heels in the air.\"\n\nAccording to McAnally\n\nThis dress could vary by region, however. In McAnally's account there were differences between leprechauns or Logherymans from different regions:\n\nIn a poem entitled \"The Lepracaun; or, Fairy Shoemaker\", 18th century Irish poet William Allingham describes the appearance of the leprechaun as:\n...A wrinkled, wizen'd, and bearded Elf,\nSpectacles stuck on his pointed nose,\nSilver buckles to his hose,\nLeather apron — shoe in his lap...\n\nThe modern image of the leprechaun sitting on a toadstool, having a red beard and green hat, etc. is clearly more modern invention or borrowed from other strands of European folklore.\n\nThe leprechaun is related to the \"clurichaun\" and the \"far darrig\" in that he is a solitary creature. Some writers even go as far as to substitute these second two less well-known spirits for the leprechaun in stories or tales to reach a wider audience. The clurichaun is considered by some to be merely a leprechaun on a drinking spree.\n\nIn the politics of the Republic of Ireland, leprechauns have been used to refer to the twee aspects of the tourist industry in Ireland. This can be seen from this example of John A. Costello addressing the Oireachtas in 1963: \"For many years, we were afflicted with the miserable trivialities of our tourist advertising. Sometimes it descended to the lowest depths, to the caubeen and the shillelagh, not to speak of the leprechaun.\n\nFilms, television cartoons and advertising have popularised a specific image of leprechauns which bears little resemblance to anything found in the cycles of Irish folklore. It can be considered that the popularised image of a leprechaun is little more than a series of stereotypes based on derogatory 19th-century caricatures.\n\n\nNobel Prize-winning economist, Paul Krugman coined the term \"leprechaun economics\" to describe distorted or unsound economic data, which he first used in a tweet on 12 July 2016 in response to the publication by the Irish Central Statistics Office (CSO) that Irish GDP had grown by 26.3%, and Irish GNP had grown by 18.7%, in the 2015 Irish national accounts. The growth was subsequently shown to be due to Apple restructuring its double Irish tax scheme which the EU Commission had fined €13bn in 2004-2014 Irish unpaid taxes, the largest corporate tax fine in history. The term has been used many times since (see leprechaun economics).\n\n"}
{"id": "10871370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10871370", "title": "List of American Eastern Orthodox saints", "text": "List of American Eastern Orthodox saints\n\nAmerican Orthodox Saints\n\n\nPersons under consideration (whether formal or informal) for glorification:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39745783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39745783", "title": "List of Jain monks", "text": "List of Jain monks\n\nThis is a list of Jain ascetics. The list include the names of ascetics who are known for their contributions to Jain philosophy and Jainism in general.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26401075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26401075", "title": "List of atheists (surnames H to K)", "text": "List of atheists (surnames H to K)\n"}
{"id": "12682279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12682279", "title": "Mary Margaret Funk", "text": "Mary Margaret Funk\n\nSr. Mary Margaret Funk, OSB, is an American writer and advocate of interreligious dialogue. Her published works include a trilogy of books on \"The Practice of the Spiritual Life\".\n\nIn 1993 Funk spoke at the Parliament of the World's Religions. From 1994-2004 she was Executive Director of the Monastic Interreligious Dialogue Board, which coordinates the organization that aims to foster interreligious and intermonastic dialogue. In this capacity she coordinated a number of events, notably the Gethsemani Encounters and Benedict's Dharma Conference. In 1995 she traveled to India and Tibet on the 6th Spiritual Exchange Program.\n\nA former Prioress and still a current member of Our Lady of Grace Monastery in Beech Grove, Indiana, which she entered in 1961, Funk directs the School of Lectio Divina at the adjacent Benedict Inn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4736949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4736949", "title": "Mawlawi (Islamic title)", "text": "Mawlawi (Islamic title)\n\nMoulvi (; also spelled Maulvi, Mawlawi, and Mawlvi) is an honorific Islamic religious title given to Muslim religious scholars, or ulama, preceding their names, similar to the titles Mawlānā, Mullah, or Sheikh. Mawlawi generally means a highly qualified Islamic scholar, usually one who has completed full studies in a madrassa (Islamic school) or darul uloom (Islamic seminary). It is commonly used in Iran, Central Asia, South Asia, South East Asia and East Africa. The word Mawlawi is derived from the Arabic word \"mawla\", which has several meanings, including \"lord\".\n\nTurkish Mawlawi fraternity of Sufis (Muslim mystics) founded in Konya (Qonya), Anatolia, by the Persian Sufi poet Jalal ad-Din ar-Rumi (d. 1273), whose popular title mawlana (Arabic for \"our master\") gave the order its name. The order, propagated throughout Anatolia, controlled Konya and environs by the 15th century and in the 17th century appeared in Istanbul.\n\nIn the Central Asian and Pakistani context, where Mullah does not carry a formal meaning, \"Maulana\" or \"Maulvi\" is often the word of choice for addressing or referring to respected Muslim religious scholars (ulama). Although the words Maulvi, Maulbi and Maulana are interchanged in the South Asia as a title of respect, Maulana is more often associated with formal qualification following study at a madrassa or darul uloom whereas Maulvi is usually more a general title for religious figures.\n\nIn Bangladesh, in the government Aliyah Madrassa system, Maulbi/Maulbi is also associated with formal degrees for those who have passed the course of Maulbi/Maulvi (basic), Maulvi Aalim (intermediate) or Maulvi Fazil (advanced).\n\n"}
{"id": "10036888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10036888", "title": "Missionaries in India", "text": "Missionaries in India\n\nMissionaries in India is a 1996 nonfiction book by Arun Shourie. The book was a catalyst for the reappraisal of the place and meaning of conversion and baptism in mission in India. Taking Arun Shourie's challenge positively, the Fellowship of Indian Missiologists (FOIM) decided to re-examine the issue of conversion and baptism. At its Fourth Annual Meeting at Ishvani Kendra, Pune, the subject of conversion and baptism was taken up from the biblical, theological, historical, religious and cultural perspectives. The resulting papers, responses and group discussions during the meeting were put together in the book \"Mission and Conversion a Reappraisal\".\n\nThe idea for the book came after Arun Shourie reviewed the history of Christianity following his participation in a catholic conference. The Catholic Bishops' Conference of India (CBCI), the highest body of the Catholic Church in India, invited Arun Shourie to give a \"Hindu assessment of the work of Christian missionaries\" in a meeting held at the Ishvani Kendra Seminary at Pune on 5 January 1994. Many eminent archbishops, bishops, senior clergy and Christian scholars from all over India were also invited. Shourie was asked to write a paper so that it could be included in a volume containing the proceedings of the 50th anniversary celebration of the CBCI.\n\nArun Shourie said about his book: \"To celebrate the 50th anniversary of its establishment the C.B.C.I. convened a meeting in January 1994 to review the work of the Church in India. [...] For some reason the organizers were so kind to ask me [Arun Shourie] to give the Hindu perception of the work of Christian missionaries in India. That lecture and the discussion which followed forms the scaffolding of this book.\"\n\nFr. Augustine Kanjamala, Secretary of the CBCI, who had invited Shourie for the lecture at Pune, later criticized Shourie for his book and presented a critique of the book.\n\nAs the campaign against Shourie and his book on missionaries in India grew larger, Prajna Bharati, an intellectual forum with\nheadquarters in Hyderabad, invited several senior churchmen to discuss \"Missionaries in India\" with Shourie on a public platform. Fr. Kanjamala debated with Shourie on the contents of the book on 4 September 1994.\n\nSoon after the publication of the book by Shourie, Vishal Mangalwadi, an Indian Christian writer and activist, began to write letters to Shourie in which he responded to various issues raised by him. Shourie, evidently, did not respond to the letter. The ten letters with relevant appendices were published in 1996 under the title \"Missionary Conspiracy: Letters to a Postmodern Hindu\".\n"}
{"id": "724717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=724717", "title": "Nagarathar", "text": "Nagarathar\n\nThe Nagarathar (also known as Nattukkottai Chettiar) is a Tamil Vaishya caste that follows the belief system of Shaivism. \n\nThe Nagarathar or Nattukkottai Chettiar were historically an itinerant community of merchants but claim Chettinad as their traditional home. How they reached that place, which at the time comprised adjacent parts of the ancient states of Pudukkottai, Ramnad and Sivagangai, is uncertain, with various communal legends being recorded. Among those are a fairly recently recorded claim that they were driven there because of persecution by a Chola king and an older one, recounted to Edgar Thurston, that they were encouraged to go there by a Pandyan king who wanted to take advantage of their trading skills. The legends converge in saying that they obtained the use of nine temples, with each representing one exogamous part of the community.\n\nIt is found that Kannagi and Kovalan, the prime personalities of the epic \"Silappatikaram\" were born in Nagarathar community. The religious figures Karaikkal Ammaiyar and Pattinathar were also from the community.\n\nThey may have become maritime traders as far back as the 8th century CE, although this is not universally accepted. Certainly, they were trading in salt by the 17th century and European expansionism in South East Asia during the next century fostered conditions that enabled the community to expand its trading enterprises, including as moneylenders, thereafter.\n\nIn the 19th century, following the Permanent Settlement, some in the Nagarathar community wielded considerable influence in the affairs of the zamindar (landowners) elite. There had traditionally been a relationship between royalty and the community based on the premise that providing worthy service to royalty would result in the granting of high honours but this changed as the landowners increasingly needed to borrow money from the community in order to fight legal battles designed to retain their property and powers. Nagarathars provided that money as mortgaged loans but by the middle of the century they were becoming far less tolerant of any defaults and were insisting that failure to pay as arranged would result in the mortgaged properties being forfeited.\n\nVelir\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "39112484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39112484", "title": "Pablo Galimberti", "text": "Pablo Galimberti\n\nPablo Jaime Galimberti di Vietri (born 8 May 1941 in Montevideo) is a Uruguayan Roman Catholic cleric.\n\nOrdained 29 May 1971, he was appointed Bishop of San José on 12 December 1983. Later he was appointed Bishop of Salto on 16 May 2006.\n"}
{"id": "23949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23949", "title": "Palestinian Christians", "text": "Palestinian Christians\n\nPalestinian Christians () are Christian citizens of the State of Palestine. In the wider definition of Palestinian Christians, including the Palestinian refugees, diaspora and people with full or partial Palestinian Christian ancestry this can be applied to an estimated 500,000 people worldwide as of the year 2000. Palestinian Christians belong to one of a number of Christian denominations, including Eastern Orthodoxy, Oriental Orthodoxy, Catholicism (Eastern and Western rites), Anglicanism, Lutheranism, other branches of Protestantism and others. They number 6–7% of the 12 million Palestinians. 70% live outside Palestine and Israel. In both the local dialect of Palestinian Arabic and in Classical Arabic or Modern Standard Arabic, Christians are called \"Nasrani\" (the Arabic word Nazarene) or \"Masihi\" (a derivative of Arabic word \"Masih\", meaning \"Messiah\"). Hebrew-speakers call them \"Notzri\" (also spelt \"Notsri\"), which means Nazarene (originated from Nazareth).\n\n, Palestinian Christians comprise approximately 1–2.5% of the population of the West Bank, and less than 1% in the Gaza Strip. According to official British Mandatory estimates, Palestine's Christian population in 1922 constituted 9.5% of the total Mandatory Palestine population (10.8% of the Palestinian Arab population), and 7.9% in 1946. \nA large number of Arab Christians fled or were expelled from the Jewish-controlled areas of Mandatory Palestine during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, and a small number left during the period (1948–1967) of Jordanian control of the West Bank for economic reasons. From 1967, during the Israeli military rule, the Palestinian Christian population has increased in excess of the continued emigration.\n\nThere are also many Palestinian Christians who are descendants of Palestinian refugees from the post-1948 era who fled to Christian-majority countries and formed large diasporan Christian communities. Worldwide, there are nearly one million Palestinian Christians in these territories as well as in the Palestinian diaspora, comprising around 6-7% of the world's total Palestinian population. Palestinian Christians live primarily in Arab states surrounding historic Palestine and in the diaspora, particularly in Europe and the Americas.\n\nIn the 1922 census of Palestine there were approximately 73,000 Christian Palestinians: 46% Orthodox, 40% Catholic (20% Roman Catholic, and 20% Eastern Catholic (Uniate).\n\nThe census recorded over 200 localities with a Christian population. The totals by denomination for all of Mandatory Palestine were: Greek Orthodox 33,369, Syriac Orthodox (Jacobite) 813, Roman Catholic 14,245, Greek Catholic (Melkite) 11,191, Syriac Catholic 323, Armenian Catholic 271, Maronite 2,382, Armenian Orthodox (Gregorian) 2,939, Coptic Church 297, Abyssinian Church 85, Church of England 4,553, Presbyterian Church 361, Protestants 826, Lutheran Church 437, Templars Community 724, others 208.\n\nIn 2009, there were an estimated 50,000 Christians in the Palestinian territories, mostly in the West Bank, with about 3,000 in the Gaza Strip. Of the total Christian population of 154,000 in Israel, about 80% are designated as Arabs, many of whom self-identify as Palestinian. The majority (56%) of Palestinian Christians live in the Palestinian diaspora.\n\nAround 50% of Palestinian Christians belong to the Greek Orthodox Church of Jerusalem, one of the 15 churches of Eastern Orthodoxy. This community has also been known as the Arab Orthodox Christians. There are also Maronites, Melkite-Eastern Catholics, Jacobites, Chaldeans, Roman Catholics (locally known as Latins), Syriac Catholics, Orthodox Copts, Catholic Copts, Armenian Orthodox, Armenian Catholic, Quakers (Society of Friends), Methodists, Presbyterians, Anglicans (Episcopal), Lutherans, Evangelicals, Pentecostals, Nazarene, Assemblies of God, Baptists and other Protestants; in addition to small groups of Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons and others.\n\nThe Patriarch Theophilos III is the leader of the Greek Orthodox Church of Jerusalem since 2005. He replaced Irenaios (in office from 2001), who was deposed by the church synod after a term surrounded by controversy and scandal given that he sold Palestinian property to Israeli Orthodox Jews. The Israel government initially refused to recognize Theophilos's appointment but finally granted full recognition in December 2007, despite a legal challenge by his predecessor Irenaios.. Archbishop Theodosios (Hanna) of Sebastia the highest ranking Palestinian clergyman in the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem.\n\nThe Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem is the leader of the Roman Catholics in Jerusalem, Palestine, Jordan, Israel and Cyprus. The office is vacant since the 2016 resignation of PatriarchFouad Twal, Archbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa acting as apostolic administrator. George Bacouni, of the Melkite Greek Catholic Church, is Archbishop of Akka, with jurisdiction over Haifa, Acre and the Galilee, and replaced Elias Chacour, a Palestinian refugee, in 2014. Moussa El-Hage, of the Maronite Church, is since 2012 simultaneously Archbishop of the Archeparchy of Haifa and the Holy Land and Patriarchal Exarch of Jerusalem and Palestine.\n\nThe Anglican Bishop in Jerusalem is Suheil Dawani, who replaced Bishop Riah Abou Al Assal. Bishop Dr. Munib Younan is the president of the Lutheran World Federation and the Bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Jordan and the Holy Land (ELCJHL).\n\nThe first Christian communities in Roman Judea were Aramaic speaking Messianic Jews and Latin and Greek speaking Romans and Greeks, who were in part descendants from previous settlers of the regions, such as Syro-Phoenicians, Arameans, Greeks, Persians, and Arabs such as Nabataeans.\n\nContrary to other groups of oriental Christians such as the largely Assyrian Nestorians, the vast majority of Palestinian Christians went under the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate and Roman emperors after the Council of Chalcedon in 451 AD (which would be part of the Orthodox Church after the Great Schism), and were known by other Syrian Christians as Melkites (followers of the king). The Melkites were heavily Hellenised in the following centuries, abandoning their distinct Western Aramaic languages in favour of Greek. By the 7th century, Jerusalem and Byzantine Palestine became the epicentre of Greek culture in the Orient.\n\nSoon after the Muslim conquests, the Melkites began abandoning Greek for Arabic, a process which made them the most Arabicised Christians in the Levant.\n\nMost Palestinian Christians nowadays see themselves as culturally and linguistically Arab Christians with ancestors dating back to the first followers of Christ. They claim descent from Romans, Ghassanid Arabs, Byzantines, and Crusaders. The region consisting mainly of modern Israel and the State of Palestine is considered to be the Holy Land by Christians. Major Christian holy cities such as Bethlehem, Nazareth and Jerusalem are located in Israel and the State of Palestine.\n\nThat Christian Arabs in Palestine see themselves as Arab nationalistically reflects also the fact that, as of the beginning of the twentieth century, they shared many of the same customs as their Muslim neighbors. In some respects, this was a consequence of Christians adopting what were essentially Islamic practices, many of which were derived of \"sharî'ah\". In others, it was more the case that the customs shared by both Muslims and Christians derived from neither faith, but rather were a result of a process of syncretization, whereby what had once been pagan practices were later redefined as Christian and subsequently adopted by Muslims. This was especially evident in the fact that Palestine's Muslims and Christians shared many of the same feast days, in honor of the same saints, even if they referred to them by different names. \"Shrines dedicated to St. George, for instance, were transformed into shrines honoring Khidr-Ilyas, a conflation of the Prophet Elijah and the mythical sprite Khidr.” Added to this, many Muslims viewed local Christian churches as saints’ shrines. Thus, for instance, a “Muslim women having difficulties conceiving, for instance, might travel to Bethlehem to pray for a child before the Virgin Mary.” It was even not uncommon for a Muslim to have his child baptized in a Christian church, in the name of Khaḍr.\n\nThe category of 'Palestinian Arab Christian' came to assume a political dimension in the 19th century as international interest grew and foreign institutions were developed there. The urban elite began to undertake the construction of a modern multi-religious Arab civil society. When the British received from the League of Nations a mandate to administer Palestine after World War I, many British dignitaries in London were surprised to discover so many Christian leaders in the Palestinian Arab political movements. The British authorities in the Mandate of Palestine had difficulty understanding the commitment of the Palestinian Christians to Palestinian nationalism.\n\nPalestinian Christian owned Falastin was founded in 1911 in the then Arab-majority city of Jaffa. The newspaper is often described as one of the most influential newspapers in historic Palestine, and probably the nation's fiercest and most consistent critic of the Zionist movement. It helped shape Palestinian identity and nationalism and was shut down several times by the Ottoman and British authorities, most of the time due to complaints made by Zionists.\n\nThe Nakba left the multi-denominational Christian Arab communities in disarray. They had little background in theology, their work being predominantly pastoral, and their immediate task was to assist the thousands of homeless refugees. But it also sowed the seeds for the development of a Liberation Theology among Palestinian Arab Christians. There was a differential policy of expulsion. More lenience was applied to the Christians of the Galilee where expulsion mostly affected Muslims: at Tarshiha, Me'eliya, Dayr al-Qassi, and Salaban, Christians were allowed to remain while Muslims were driven out. At Iqrit and Bir'im the IDF ordered Christians to evacuate for a brief spell, an order that was then confirmed as a permanent expulsion. Sometimes In a mixed Druze-Christian village like al-Rama, only the Christians were initially expelled towards Lebanon, but, thanks to the intervention of the local Druze were permitted to return. Important Christian figures were sometimes allowed to return, on condition they help Israel among their communities. Archibishop Hakim, with many hundreds of Christians, was allowed reentry on expressing a willingness to campaign against Communists in Israel and among his flock.\n\nAfter the war of 1948, the Christian population in the West Bank, under Jordanian control, dropped slightly, largely due to economic problems. This contrasts with the process occurring in Israel where Christians left \"en masse\" after 1948. Constituting 21% of Israel's Arab population in 1950, they now make up just 9% of that group. These trends accelerated after the 1967 war in the aftermath of Israel's takeover of the West Bank and Gaza.\n\nChristians within the Palestinian Authority constituted around one in seventy-five residents. In 2009, Reuters reported that 47,000–50,000 Christians remained in the West Bank, with around 17,000 following the various Catholic traditions and most of the rest following the Orthodox church and other eastern denominations. Both Bethlehem and Nazareth, which were once overwhelmingly Christian, now have Muslim majorities. Today about three-quarters of all Bethlehem Christians live abroad, and more Jerusalem Christians live in Sydney, Australia than in Jerusalem. Christians now comprise 2.5 percent of the population of Jerusalem. Those remaining include a few born in the Old City when Christians there constituted a majority.\n\nIn a 2007 letter from Congressman Henry Hyde to President George W. Bush, Hyde stated that \"the Christian community is being crushed in the mill of the bitter Israeli-Palestinian conflict\" and that expanding Jewish settlements in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, were \"irreversibly damaging the dwindling Christian community\".\n\nThere have been reports of attacks on Palestinian Christians in Gaza from Muslim extremist groups. Gaza Pastor Manuel Musallam has voiced doubts that those attacks were religiously motivated. The Palestinian President, Prime Minister, Hamas and many other political and religious leaders condemned such attacks.\n\nFr Pierbattista Pizzaballa, the Custodian of the Holy Land, a senior Catholic spokesman, has stated that police inaction and an educational culture that encourages Jewish children to treat Christians with \"contempt\" has made life increasingly \"intolerable\" for many Christians. Fr Pizzaballa's statement came after pro-settler extremists attacked a Trappist monastery in the town of Latroun, setting fire to its door, and covering walls with anti-Christian graffiti. The incident followed a series of acts of arson and vandalism, in 2012, targeting places of Christian worship, including Jerusalem's 11th century Monastery of the Cross, where slogans such as \"Death to Christians\" and other offensive graffiti were daubed on its walls. According to an article in the Telegraph, Christian leaders feel that the most important issue that Israel has failed to address is the practice of some ultra-Orthodox Jewish schools to teach children that it is a religious obligation to abuse anyone in Holy Orders they encounter in public, such that Ultra-Orthodox Jews, including children as young as eight, spit at members of the clergy on a daily basis.\n\nAfter Pope Benedict XVI's comments on Islam in September 2006, five churches not affiliated with either Catholicism or the Pope—among them an Anglican and an Orthodox church—were firebombed and shot at in the West Bank and Gaza. A Muslim extremist group called \"Lions of Monotheism\" claimed responsibility. Former Palestinian Prime Minister and current Hamas leader Ismail Haniya condemned the attacks, and police presence was elevated in Bethlehem, which has a sizable Christian community.\n\nArmenians in Jerusalem, identified as Palestinian Christians or Israeli-Armenians, have also been attacked and received threats from Jewish extremists; Christians and clergy have been spat at, and one Armenian Archbishop was beaten and his centuries old cross broken. In September 2009, two Armenian Christian clergy were expelled after a brawl erupted with a Jewish extremist for spitting on holy Christian objects.\n\nIn February 2009, a group of Christian activists within the West Bank wrote an open letter asking Pope Benedict XVI to postpone his scheduled trip to Israel unless the government changes its treatment. They highlighted improved access to places of worship and ending the taxation of church properties as key concerns. The Pope began his five-day visit to Israel and the Palestinian Authority on Sunday, 10 May, planning to express support for the region's Christians. In response to Palestinian public statements, Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor criticized the political polarization of the papal visit, remarking that \"[i]t will serve the cause of peace much better if this visit is taken for what it is, a pilgrimage, a visit for the cause of peace and unity\".\n\nIn November 2009, Berlanty Azzam, a Palestinian Christian student from Gaza, was expelled from Bethlehem and was not allowed to continue her studying. She had two months left for the completion of her degree. Berlanty Azzam said the Israeli military handcuffed her, blindfolded her, and left her waiting for hours at a checkpoint on her way back from a job interview in Ramallah. She described the incident as \"frightening\" and claimed Israeli official treated her like a criminal and denied her an education because she is a Palestinian Christian from Gaza.\n\nIn April 2014, IDF began to send enlistment notices to Christian Arab youths of military age, informing them of the possibility of joining the military. During 2013, enlistment from the Christian population has been on the rise, with 84 new recruits between July and December that year. As of December 2013 there were approximately 140 Christians serving in the IDF, with another 400 in the reserves. Father Gabriel Naddaf from Nazareth, who established the Forum for Christian Enlistment to the IDF and one of the most active advocates of Christian-Arab enlistment, welcomed the step and said he was certain it would help increase the numbers of Christian youth volunteering for service. See also Christianity in Israel§Sons of the New Testament Party.\n\nIn July 2014, during operation Protective Edge an Israeli-Arab Christian demonstration was held in Haifa in a protest against Muslim extremism in the Middle East (concerning the rise of the Islamic State) and in support of Israel and the IDF.\n\nChristian Arabs are one of the most educated groups in Israel. Statistically, Christian Arabs in Israel have the highest rates of educational attainment among all religious communities, according to a data by Israel Central Bureau of Statistics in 2010, 63% of Israeli Christian Arabs have had college or postgraduate education, the highest of any religious and ethno-religious group. Despite the fact that Arab Christians only represent 2.1% of the total Israeli population, in 2014 they accounted for 17.0% of the country's university students, and for 14.4% of its college students. There are more Christians who have attained a bachelor's degree or higher academic degrees than the median Israeli population. Also Christian Arabs have one of the highest rates of success in the matriculation examinations, (73.9%) in 2017 both in comparison to the Muslims and the Druze and in comparison to all students in the Jewish education system as a group. Arab Christians were also the vanguard in terms of eligibility for higher education. and they have attained a bachelor's degree and academic degree more than the median Israeli population. Christians schools in Israel went on strike in 2015 at the beginning of the 2015 academic year in protest at budget cuts aimed at them. The strike affected 33,000 pupils, 40 percent of them Muslim. In 2013, Israel covered 65% of the budget of Palestinian Christian schools in Israel, a figure cut that year to 34%. Christians say they now received a third of what Jewish schools receive, with a shortfall of $53 million.\n\nThe rate of students studying in the field of medicine was also higher among the Christian Arab students, compared with all the students from other sectors. The percentage of Arab Christian women who are higher education students is higher than other sectors.\n\nIn September 2014, Israel's interior minister signed an order that the Aramean Christian minority in Israel could register as Arameans rather than Arabs. The order will affect about 200 families.\n\nThe mayors of Ramallah, Birzeit, Bethlehem, Zababdeh, Jifna, Ein 'Arik, Aboud, Taybeh, Beit Jala and Beit Sahour are Christians. The Governor of Tubas, Marwan Tubassi, is a Christian. The former Palestinian representative to the United States, Afif Saffieh, is a Christian, as is the ambassador of the Palestinian Authority in France, Hind Khoury. The Palestinian women's soccer team has a majority of Muslim girls, but the captain, Honey Thaljieh, is a Christian from Bethlehem. Many of the Palestinian officials such as ministers, advisers, ambassadors, consulates, heads of missions, PLC, PNA, PLO, Fateh leaders and others are Christians. Some Christians were part of the affluent segments of Palestinian society that left the country during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. In West Jerusalem, over 50% of Christian Palestinians lost their homes to the Israelis, according to the historian Sami Hadawi.\n\nThough numbering only a few hundred, there is a community of Christians who have converted from Islam. They are not centered in one particular city and mostly belong to various evangelical and charismatic communities. Due to the fact that official conversion from Islam to Christianity is illegal in accordance with Islamic sharia law in Palestine, these individuals tend to keep a low profile.\n\nThe Sabeel Ecumenical Liberation Theology Center is a Christian non-governmental organization based in Jerusalem; was founded in 1990 as an outgrowth of a conference regarding \"Palestinian Liberation Theology.\" According to its web site, \"Sabeel is an ecumenical grassroots liberation theology movement among Palestinian Christians. Inspired by the life and teaching of Jesus Christ, this liberation theology seeks to deepen the faith of Palestinian Christians, to promote unity among them toward social action. Sabeel strives to develop a spirituality based on love, justice, peace, nonviolence, liberation and reconciliation for the different national and faith communities. The word \"Sabeel\" is Arabic for ‘the way‘ and also a ‘channel‘ or ‘spring‘ of life-giving water.\"\n\nSabeel has been criticized for its belief that \"Israel is solely culpable for the origin and continuation of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict,\" and for using \"anti-Semitic deicide imagery against Israel, and of disparaging Judaism as 'tribal,' 'primitive,' and 'exclusionary,' in contrast to Christianity’s 'universalism' and 'inclusiveness.'\" In addition, Daniel Fink, writing on behalf of NGO Monitor, shows that Sabeel leader Naim Ateek has described Zionism as a “step backward in the development of Judaism,” and Zionists as “oppressors and war makers.”\n\nIn December 2009, a number of prominent Palestinian Christian activists, both clergy and lay people, released the Kairos Palestine document, \"A moment of truth.\" Among the authors of the document are Michel Sabbah, former Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, Archbishop Attalah Hanna, Father Jamal Khader, Rev. Mitri Raheb, Rev. Naim Ateek and Rifat Kassis who is the coordinator and chief spokesperson of the group.\n\nThe document declares the Israeli occupation of Palestine a \"sin against God\" and against humanity. It calls on churches and Christians all over the world to consider it and adopt it and to call for the boycott of Israel. Section 7 calls for \"the beginning of a system of economic sanctions and boycott to be applied against Israel.\" It states that isolation of Israel will cause pressure on Israel to abolish all of what it labels as \"apartheid laws\" that discriminate against Palestinians and non-Jews.\n\nThe Holy Land Christian Ecumenical Foundation (HCEF) was founded in 1999 by an ecumenical group of American Christians to preserve the Christian presence in the Holy Land. HCEF stated goal is to attempt to continue the presence and well-being of Arab Christians in the Holy Land and to develop the bonds of solidarity between them and Christians elsewhere. HCEF offers material assistance to Palestinian Christians and to churches in the area. HCEF advocates for solidarity on the part of Western Christians with Christians in the Holy Land.\n\nThere are around 1,300 Christians in the Gaza Strip and the number of Christians is steadily declining. Gaza's Christian community mostly lives within the city, especially in areas neighbouring the three main churches: Church of Saint Porphyrius, The Holy Family Catholic Parish in Zeitoun Street, and the Gaza Baptist Church, in addition to an Anglican chapel in the Al-Ahli Al-Arabi Arab Evangelical Hospital. Saint Porphyrius is an Orthodox Church that dates back to the 12th century. Gaza Baptist Church is the city’s only Evangelical Church; it lies close to the Legislative Council (parliamentary building). Christians in Gaza freely practice their religion. They also may observe all the religious holidays in accordance with the Christian calendars followed by their churches.\n\nThose among them working as civil servants in the government and in the private sector are given an official holiday during the week, which some devote to communal prayer in churches. Christians are permitted to obtain any job, in addition to having their full rights and duties as their Muslim counterparts in accordance with the Palestinian Declaration of Independence, the regime, and all the systems prevailing over the territories. Moreover, seats have been allocated to Christian citizens in the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) in accordance with a quota system that allocates based on a significant Christian presence.\n\nA census revealed that 40 percent of the Christian community worked in the medical, educational, engineering and law sectors. Additionally, the churches in Gaza are renowned for the relief and educational services that they offer, and Muslim citizens participate in these services. Palestinian citizens as a whole benefit from these services. The Latin Patriarchate School, for example, offers relief in the form of medication and social and educational services. The school has been offering services for nearly 150 years.\n\nIn 1974, the idea of establishing a new school was proposed by Father Jalil Awad, a former parish priest in Gaza who recognized the need to expand the Latin Patriarchate School and build a new complex. In 2011, the Holy family school had 1,250 students and the Roman Catholic primary school, which is an extension of the Latin Patriarchate School, continues to enroll a rising number of young students. The primary school was established approximately 20 years ago. Aside from education, other services are offered to Muslims and Christians alike with no discrimination. Services include women’s groups, students' groups and youth groups, such as those offered at the Baptist Church on weekdays. As of 2013, only 113 out of 968 of these Christian schools students were in fact Christians.\n\nIn October 2007, Rami Ayyad, the Baptist manager of The Teacher's Bookshop, the only Christian bookstore in the Gaza Strip, was murdered, following the firebombing of his bookstore and the receipt of death threats from Muslim extremists.\n\nIn addition to neighboring countries, such as Lebanon and Jordan, many Palestinian Christians emigrated to countries in Latin America (notably Argentina and Chile), as well as to Australia, the United States and Canada. The Palestinian Authority is unable to keep exact tallies. The share of Christians in the population has also decreased due to the fact that Muslim Palestinians generally have much higher birth rates than the Christians.\n\nThe causes of this Christian exodus are hotly debated, with various possibilities put forth. Many of the Palestinian Christians in the diaspora are those who fled or were expelled during the 1948 war and their descendants. After discussion between Yosef Weitz and Moshe Sharett, Ben-Gurion authorized a project for the transference of the Christian communities of the Galilee to Argentina, but the proposal failed in the face of Christian opposition. Reuters has reported that the emigrants since then have left in pursuit of better living standards.\n\nThe BBC has also blamed the economic decline in the Palestinian Authority as well as pressure from the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for the exodus. A report on Bethlehem residents stated both Christians and Muslims wished to leave but the Christians possessed better contacts with people abroad and higher levels of education. The Vatican and the Catholic Church blamed the Israeli occupation and the conflict in the Holy Land for the Christian exodus from the Holy Land and the Middle East in general.\n\n\"The Jerusalem Post\" (an Israeli newspaper) has stated that the \"shrinking of the Palestinian Christian community in the Holy Land came as a direct result of its middle-class standards\" and that Muslim pressure has not played a major role according to Christian residents themselves. It reported that the Christians have a public image of elitism and of class privilege as well as of non-violence and of open personalities, which leaves them more vulnerable to criminals than Muslims. Hanna Siniora, a prominent Christian Palestinian human rights activist, has attributed harassment against Christians to \"little groups\" of \"hoodlums\" rather than to the Hamas and Fatah governments. In his last novel, the Palestinian Christian writer Emile Habibi has a character affirm that:\n\"There is no difference between Christian and Muslim: we are all Palestinian in our predicament.\"\n\nAccording to a report in \"The Independent\", thousands of Christian Palestinians \"emigrated to Latin America in the 1920s, when Mandatory Palestine was hit by drought and a severe economic depression.\"\n\nToday, Chile houses the largest Palestinian Christian community in the world outside of the Levant. As many as 350,000 Palestinian Christians reside in Chile, most of whom came from Beit Jala, Bethlehem, and Beit Sahur. Also, El Salvador, Honduras, Brazil, Colombia, Argentina, Venezuela, and other Latin American countries have significant Palestinian Christian communities, some of whom immigrated almost a century ago during the time of Ottoman Palestine. During the 2008 Gaza War, Palestinian Christians in Chile demonstrated against the Israeli bombardment of Gaza. They were hoping to move the government into altering its relations with Israel.\n\nIn a 2006 poll of Christians in Bethlehem by the Palestinian Centre for Research and Cultural Dialogue, 90% reported having Muslim friends, 73% agreed that the Palestinian Authority treats Christian heritage in the city with respect, and 78% attributed the ongoing exodus of Christians from Bethlehem to the Israeli occupation and travel restrictions on the area. Daniel Rossing, the Israeli Ministry of Religious Affairs' chief liaison to Christians in the 1970s and 1980s, has stated that the situations for them in Gaza became much worse after the election of Hamas. He also stated that the Palestinian Authority, which counts on Christian westerners for financial support, treats the minority fairly. He blamed the Israeli West Bank barrier as the primary problem for the Christians.\n\nThe United States State Department's 2006 report on religious freedom criticized both Israel for its restrictions on travel to Christian holy sites and the Palestinian Authority for its failure to stamp out anti-Christian crime. It also reported that the former gives preferential treatment in basic civic services to Jews and the latter does so to Muslims. The report stated that, generally, ordinary Muslim and Christian citizens enjoy good relations in contrast to the \"strained\" Jewish and Arab relations. A 2005 BBC report also described Muslim and Christian relations as \"peaceful\".\n\nThe Arab Human Rights Association, an Arab NGO in Israel, has stated that Israeli authorities have denied Palestinian Christians in Israel access to holy places, prevented repairs needed to preserve historic holy sites, and carried out physical attacks on religious leaders.\n\nMultiple factors, the internal dislocation of Palestinians in wars; the creation of three contiguous refugee camps for those displaced; emigration of Muslims from Hebron; hindrances to development under Israeli military occupation with its land confiscations, and a lax and corrupt judicial system under the PNA that is often incapable of enforcing laws, have all contributed to Christian emigration, which has been a tradition since the British Mandate period. \nThis has been contested, as the main cause of Christian emigration from Bethlehem, Kairos Palestine—an independent coalition Christian organisation, set up to help communicate to the Christian world what is happening in Palestine—sent a letter to \"The Wall Street Journal\" to explain that \"In the case of Bethlehem, for instance, it is in fact the rampant construction of Israeli settlements, the chokehold imposed by the separation wall and the Israeli government's confiscation of Palestinian land that has driven many Christians to leave,\" the unprinted letter, quoted in \"Haaretz\", states. \"At present, a mere 13 percent of Bethlehem-area land is left to its Palestinian inhabitants\".\n\nChristian families are the largest landowners in Bethlehem and have often been subject to theft of property. Bethlehem's core of traditional Christian and Muslim families speak of the rise of a 'foreign', more conservative, Islamic Hebronite class as changing the traditional regional identity of the town, as are the villages dominated by the Ta'amre Bedouin clans close to Bethlehem. Rising Muslim land purchase, said at times to be Saudi-financed, and incidents of land theft with forged documents, except in Beit Sahour where Christian and Muslims share a strong sense of local identity, are seen by Christians as making their demographic presence vulnerable. Christians are often described as of Yamani descent (as are some Muslim clans), vs the al-Qaysi Muslim clans, respectively from southern and northern Arabia. Christians are wary of the international media and of discussing these issues publicly, which involve criticism of fellow Palestinians, since there is a risk that their remarks may be manipulated by outsiders to undermine Palestinian claims to nationhood, distract attention from the crippling impact of Israel's occupation, and conjure up an image of a Muslim drive to oust Christians from Bethlehem.\n\nThe Christian Broadcasting Network (an American Protestant organization) claimed that Palestinian Christians suffer systematic discrimination and persecution at the hands of the predominantly Muslim population and Palestinian government aimed at driving their population out of their homeland. However, Palestinian Christians in Bethlehem and Beit Jala have claimed otherwise that it is the loss of agricultural land and expropriation from the Israeli military, the persecution of 1948 and violence from the military occupation that has led to a flight and major exodus of Christians.\n\nOn 26 September 2015, the Mar Charbel monastery in Bethlehem was set on fire, resulting in the burning of many rooms and damaging various parts of the building.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27701205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27701205", "title": "Panika", "text": "Panika\n\nThe Panika are a Hindu community found in the Indian states of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh. They are also known as Panka and Panikar.\n\nThe classification of the Panika under India's system of positive discrimination varies from one state to another. The entire community had been classified as a Scheduled Tribe (ST) by the Government of India in 1949 but in 1971 the Government of Madhya Pradesh redesignated those in what was then that state's Chhattisgarh region as being an Other Backward Class (OBC). The OBC designation was maintained when the independent Chhattisgarh state was created in 2001 and it remains thus , although as recently as 2013 politicians had promised to investigate whether they could be reclassified as an ST. In Madhya Pradesh, , they are categorised as an ST in some districts and as OBC in others.\n\nThe varying reservation status has an effect when Panikas marry. A spokesman interviewed in 2013 noted that \"If a girl comes to Chhattisgarh after marrying, she will have to loss her tribal credential. If a boy from Madhya Pradesh marries a girl from Chhattisgarh, she will get the recognition of a tribal.\"\n"}
{"id": "49310078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49310078", "title": "Pushpadanta (Jain monk)", "text": "Pushpadanta (Jain monk)\n\nAcharya Pushpadanta (1st century CE) was a Digambara Acharya (head of the monastic order). He along with \"Acharya Bhutabali\" composed the most sacred Jain text, Satkhandagama.\n\n\"Shrut Panchami\" (scripture fifth) is celebrated by Jains in may every year commemorating Pushpadanta and Bhutabali.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2654482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2654482", "title": "Rajneesh movement", "text": "Rajneesh movement\n\nThe Rajneesh movement comprises persons inspired by the Indian mystic Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh (1931–1990), also known as Osho, particularly initiated disciples who are referred to as \"neo-sannyasins\" or simply \"sannyasins\". They used to be known as \"Rajneeshees\" or \"Orange People\", because of the orange and later red, maroon and pink clothes they used from 1970 until 1985. Members of the movement are sometimes called \"Oshoites\" in the Indian press.\n\nThe movement was controversial in the 1970s and 1980s, due to the founder's hostility to traditional values, first in India and later in the United States. In the Soviet Union, the movement was banned as being contrary to \"positive aspects of Indian culture and to the aims of the youth protest movement in Western countries\". These \"positive aspects\" were seen as being subverted by Rajneesh, who was portrayed as a reactionary religious ideologist of the monopolistic bourgeoisie of India, promoting the ideas of the consumer society in a traditional Hindu guise.\n\nIn Oregon, the movement's large intentional community of the early 1980s, called Rajneeshpuram, caused immediate tensions in the local community for its attempts to take over the nearby town of Antelope and later the county seat of The Dalles. \n\nAt the peak of these tensions a circle of leading members of the Rajneeshpuram Oregon commune was arrested for crimes including attempted murder as part of the United States's first recorded bio-terror attack calculated to influence the outcome of a local election in their favour, which ultimately failed. Salmonella was deployed to infect salad products in local restaurants and shops, which poisoned several hundred people. The Bhagwan, as Rajneesh was then called, was deported from the United States in 1985 as part of his Alford plea deal following the convictions of his staff and right hand Ma Anand Sheela, who were found guilty of the attack. The movement's headquarters eventually returned to Poona (present-day Pune), India.\nThis commune was mostly based on meditation and they preached the multiple lover idea. When the movement came to Oregon, the followers were mostly young and college-educated. This commune did not stay open for long as the deportation of its leader led to its demise. The Oregon commune was destroyed in September 1985.\n\nThe movement in India gradually received a more positive response from the surrounding society, especially after the founder's death in 1990. The Osho International Foundation (OIF), previously Rajneesh International Foundation (RIF), is managed by an \"Inner Circle\" set up by Rajneesh before his death. They jointly administer Rajneesh's estate and operate the Osho International Meditation Resort in Pune.\n\nIn the late 1990s, rival factions challenged OIF's copyright holdings over Rajneesh's works and the validity of its royalty claims on publishing or reprinting of materials. In the United States, following a 10-year legal battle with Osho Friends International (OFI), the OIF lost its exclusive rights over the trademark OSHO in January 2009.\n\nThere are a number of smaller centres of the movement in India and around the world including the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands.\n\nRajneesh began speaking in public in 1958, while still a lecturer (later professor) in philosophy at Jabalpur University. He lectured throughout India during the 1960s, promoting meditation and the ideals of free love, a social movement based on a civil libertarian philosophy that rejects state regulation and religious interference in personal relationships; he also denounced marriage as a form of social bondage, especially for women. He criticised socialism and Gandhi, but championed capitalism, science, technology and birth control, warning against overpopulation and criticising religious teachings that promote poverty and subjection.\n\nHe became known as Acharya Rajneesh, \"Acharya\" meaning \"teacher or professor\" and \"Rajneesh\" being a childhood nickname (from Sanskrit रजनि rajani, night and ईश isha, lord). By 1964 a group of wealthy backers had initiated an educational trust to support Rajneesh and aid in the running of meditation retreats. The association formed at this time was known as Jivan Jagruti Andolan (Hindi: Life Awakening Movement). As Goldman expresses it, his rapidly growing clientele suggested \"that he was an unusually talented spiritual therapist\". Around this time he \"acquired a business manager\" from the upper echelons of Indian society, Laxmi Thakarsi Kuruwa, a politically well-connected woman who would function as his personal secretary and organisational chief. She became Rajneesh's first sannyasin, taking the name Ma Yoga Laxmi. Laxmi, the daughter of a key supporter of the Nationalist Congress Party, with close ties to Gandhi, Nehru and Morarji Desai, retained this role for almost 15 years.\n\nUniversity of Jabalpur officials forced Rajneesh to resign in 1966. He developed his role as a spiritual teacher, supporting himself through lectures, meditation camps and individual meetings (\"Darśana\" or \"Darshan\"—meaning \"sight\") for his wealthier followers. In 1971 he initiated six sannyasins, the emergence of the Neo-Sannyas International Movement. Rajneesh differentiated his sannyas from the traditional practice, admitting women and viewing renunciation as a process of renouncing ego rather than the world. Disciples still adopted the traditional \"mala,\" and ochre robe, and change of name. At this time, Rajneesh adopted the title \"Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh\".\n\nBy 1972, he had initiated 3,800 sannyasis in India. The total for the rest of the world at that time was 134, including 56 from the United States, 16 each from Britain and Germany, 12 each from Italy and the Philippines, 8 in Canada, 4 in Kenya, 2 in Denmark and 1 each from France, the Netherlands, Australia, Greece, Sweden, Norway and Switzerland. After a house was purchased for Rajneesh in Poona in 1974, he founded an ashram, and membership of the movement grew. More seekers began to visit from western nations, including therapists from the Human Potential Movement. They began to run group therapy at the ashram.\n\nRajneesh became the first Eastern guru to embrace modern psychotherapy. He discoursed daily upon religious scriptures, combining elements of Western philosophy, jokes and personal anecdotes. He commented on Hinduism, Zen and other religious sources, and Western psychotherapeutic approaches.\n\nSwami Prem Amitabh (Robert Birnbaum), one of the therapists in the Poona ashram, estimates that there were about 100,000 sannyasins by 1979. Bob Mullan, a sociologist from the University of East Anglia, states that \"at any one time there were about 6,000 Rajneeshees in Poona, some visiting for weeks or months to do groups or meditations, with about two thousand working and living on a permanent basis in and around the ashram.\" Lewis F. Carter, a sociologist from the Washington State University, estimates that 2,000 sannyasins resided at Rajneeshpuram at its height.\n\nAfter Rajneesh's death and burial at this site, the ashram in Poona became the Osho International Meditation Resort. Identifying as the Esalen of the East, the resort has classes in a variety of spiritual techniques from a broad range of traditions and markets the facility as a spiritual oasis, a \"sacred space\" for discovering one's self, and uniting the desires of body and mind in a beautiful environment. According to press reports, it attracts some 200,000 people from all over the world each year; prominent visitors have included politicians, media personalities and the Dalai Lama.\n\nA 1972 monograph outlined Rajneesh's concept of sannyas. It was to be a worldwide movement, rooted in the affirmation of life, playful, joyful and based on science rather than belief and dogma. It would not rely on ideology and philosophy, but on practices, techniques and methods aiming to offer every individual the chance to discover and choose their own proper religious path; the intent was to lead people to an essential, universal religiousness. The movement would be open to people of all religions or of none, experimenting with the inner methods of all religions in their pure, original form, not seeking to synthesise them but to provide facilities whereby each might be revived, maintained and defended and their lost and hidden secrets rediscovered. The movement would not seek to create any new religion.\nTo this end, communities would be founded around the world and groups of sannyasins would tour the world to aid seekers of spiritual enlightenment and demonstrate techniques of meditation. Other groups would perform \"kirtan\" (call and response chanting) and conduct experiments in healing. Communities would run their own businesses, and various publishing companies would be founded. A central International University of Meditation would have branches all over the world and run meditation camps, and study groups would investigate the key texts of Tantra, Taoism, Hinduism and other traditions.\n\nIn one survey conducted at Rajneeshpuram, over 70 percent of those surveyed listed their religious affiliation as \"none\"; however, 60 percent of sannyasins participated in activities of worship several times a month. In late 1981 Rajneesh, through his secretary Ma Anand Sheela (Sheela Silverman), announced the inception of the \"religion of Rajneeshism\", the basis of which would be fragments taken from various discourses and interviews that Rajneesh had given over the years. In July 1983 Rajneesh Foundation International published a book entitled \"Rajneeshism: An introduction to Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh and His Religion\", in an attempt to systematise Rajneesh's religious teachings and institutionalise the movement. Despite this, the book claimed that Rajneeshism was not a religion, but rather \"a religionless religion ... only a quality of love, silence, meditation and prayerfulness\". Carter comments that the motivation for formalising Rajneesh's teachings are not easy to determine, but might perhaps have been tied to a visa application made to the Immigration and Naturalization Service to obtain \"religious worker\" status for him.\nPeople followed the norms of wearing similar clothes and participating in the same activities. The people were allowed to come and go as they pleased as long as they did not hurt anybody.\n\nIn the last week of September 1985, after Sheela had fled in disgrace, Rajneesh declared that the religion of \"Rajneeshism\" and \"Rajneeshees\" no longer existed, and that anything bearing the name would be dismantled.\n\nHis disciples set fire to 5,000 copies of the \"Book of Rajneeshism\", a 78-page compilation of his teachings that had defined Rajneeshism as \"a religionless religion\". Rajneesh said he ordered the book-burning to rid the sect of the last traces of the influence of Sheela, whose robes were added to the bonfire.\n\nRajneesh held that families, large cities and nations would ultimately be replaced by small communities with a communal way of life. By 1972, small communes of disciples existed in India and Kenya, and a larger one, to be known as Anand Shila, was planned as a \"permanent world headquarters\" in India. However, this plan was repeatedly thwarted. Large communes were planned in the west. The Rajneesh organisation bought the Big Muddy Ranch near Antelope, Oregon in July 1981, renaming it Rancho Rajneesh and later Rajneeshpuram. Initially, approximately 2,000 people took up residence in the intentional community, and Rajneesh moved there too. The organisation purchased a reception hotel in Portland. In July 1983 it was bombed by the radical Islamic group Jamaat ul-Fuqra, a group that had connections with militants in Pakistani-held Azad Kashmir and sought to attack \"soft\" targets with Indian connections in the United States.\n\nThe Rajneesh movement clashed with Oregon officials and government while at Rajneeshpuram, resulting in tensions within the commune itself. A siege mentality set in among the commune's leaders, and intimidation and authoritarianism ensued. Disillusioned followers began to leave the organisation. Commune members were instructed to cease communication with anyone who left.\n\nAlthough the movement was without clearly defined and shared values, it was well known that Rajneesh discouraged marrying and having children, since he saw families as inherently prone to dysfunction and destructiveness. Not many children were born at the communes in Oregon and England, and contraception, sterilisation, and abortion were accepted. According to Pike, some parents justified leaving their children when moving to the ashram by reasoning that spiritual development was more important.\n\nHugh B. Urban comments that \"one of the most astonishing features of the early Rajneesh movement was its remarkable success as a business enterprise\". It \"developed an extremely effective and profitable corporate structure\", and \"by the 1980s, the movement had evolved into a complex, interlocking network of corporations, with an astonishing number of both spiritual and secular businesses worldwide, offering everything from yoga and psychological counselling to cleaning services.\" It has been estimated that at least 120 million dollars were generated during the movement's time in Oregon, a period when the acquisition of capital, the collection of donations, and legal work were a primary concern. The popular press reported widely on the large collection of Rolls Royce cars Rajneesh had amassed, reported to be 93 at the final count. James S. Gordon reported that some sannyasins saw the cars as an unrivalled tool for obtaining publicity, others as a good business investment or as a test, others as an expression of Rajneesh's scorn for middle-class aspirations and yet others as an indication of the love of his disciples. Gordon opined that what Rajneesh loved most about the Rolls-Royces, apart from their comfort, was \"the anger and envy that his possession of so many—so absurdly, unnecessarily, outrageously many—of them aroused\". He wrote of a bumper sticker that was popular among sannyasins: \"Jesus Saves. Moses Invests. Bhagwan Spends.\"\n\nBy the mid-1980s, the movement, assisted by a sophisticated legal and business infrastructure, had created a corporate machine consisting of various front companies and subsidiaries. At this time, the three main identifiable organisations within the Rajneesh movement were: the Ranch Church, or Rajneesh International Foundation (RIF); the Rajneesh Investment Corporation (RIC), through which the RFI was managed; and the Rajneesh Neo-Sannyasin International Commune (RNSIC). The umbrella organisation that oversaw all investment activities was Rajneesh Services International Ltd., a company incorporated in the UK but based in Zurich. There were also smaller organisations, such as Rajneesh Travel Corp, Rajneesh Community Holdings, and the Rajneesh Modern Car Collection Trust, whose sole purpose was to deal with the acquisition and rental of Rolls Royces. By the early 21st century, members of the movement were running stress management seminars for corporate clients such as BMW, and the movement was reported in 2000 to be making $15–45 million annually in the U.S.\n\nOne of the first surveys of sannyasins was conducted in 1980 at the Poona ashram by Swami Krishna Deva (David Berry Knapp), an American clinical psychologist who would later serve as mayor of Rajneeshpuram. In the survey, Krishna Deva polled 300 American sannyasins and discovered that their median age was just over 30. 60 percent of them had been sannyasins for less than two years, and most continued to live in the United States. Half of them came from California, 97 percent were white, 25 percent were Jewish and 85 percent belonged to the middle and upper-middle classes. Almost two-thirds had university degrees and viewed themselves as \"successful in worldly terms\". Three quarters had previously been involved in some therapy and more than half had previously experimented with another spiritual group. In 1984 the average age of members of the Rajneesh movement was 34; 64 percent of the followers had a four-year college degree.\n\nA survey of 635 Rajneeshpuram residents was conducted in 1983 by Norman D. Sundberg, director of the University of Oregon's Clinical/Community Psychology Program, and three of his colleagues. It revealed a middle-class group of predominantly college-educated whites around the age of 30, the majority of whom were women. Nearly three quarters of those surveyed attributed their decisions to become Rajneeshees to their love for Rajneesh or his teachings. 91 percent stated that they had been looking for more meaning in their lives prior to becoming members. When asked to rate how they felt about their lives as Rajneeshees, 93 percent stated they were \"extremely satisfied\" or nearly so, most of them choosing the top score on a scale of 0 to 8. Only 8 percent stated that they had been as happy before joining.\n\nSeveral incidents leading to the decline of the movement occurred in the county seat and largest city of Wasco County, Oregon, The Dalles. \n\nIn 1984, Rajneeshee teams engaged in a bio-terror attack, poisoning salad products with salmonella at local restaurants and shops, poisoning 751 people. The motivation behind the attack was to rig the local election allowing the Rajneeshees to gain political power in the city and county. \n\nThe Rajneesh were also discovered to have been running what was called \"the longest wiretapping operation ever uncovered.\" \n\nThese revelations brought criminal charges against several Rajneesh leaders, including Ma Anand Sheela, personal secretary to Rajneesh, who pleaded guilty to charges of attempted murder and assault. The convictions would eventually lead to the deportation of the leader of the movement, Rajneesh, along with a 10-year suspended sentence and $400,000 fine, in 1985.\n\nIn addition to the 1984 bio-terror attack, the Rajneesh's battle with the non-profit organisation, 1000 Friends of Oregon, also contributed to their decline. This started with many legal attacks, with each organisation trying to get rid of the other. 1000 Friends wanted to prevent the city from being constructed. The fight went on for years. These legal battles did not just stay within the realms of the courts, they also took place in the media.\n\nThe movement has survived Rajneesh's death. The Osho International Foundation (OIF), the successor to the Neo-Sannyas International Foundation, now propagates his views, operating once more out of the Pune ashram in India, and the movement has begun to communicate on the Internet. Current leaders downplay early controversies in Oregon in an effort to appeal to a wider audience.\n\nUrban has commented that the most surprising feature of the Osho phenomenon lies in Rajneesh's \"remarkable apotheosis upon his return to India\", which resulted in his achieving even more success in his homeland than before. According to Urban, Rajneesh's followers had succeeded in portraying him as a martyr, promoting the view that the Ranch \"was crushed from without by the Attorney General's office ... like the marines in Lebanon, the Ranch was hit by hardball opposition and driven out.\" Sociologist Stephen Hunt, on the other hand, writes in \"Alternative Religions\" (2003) that \"the movement has declined since 1985, and some would argue it is now, for all intents and purposes, defunct.\"\n\nAfter Rajneesh's death, various disagreements ensued concerning his wishes and his legacy. This led to the formation of a number of rival collectives. One of the central disagreements related to OIF's copyright control over his works. One group, Osho Friends International, spent 10 years challenging the OIF's use of the title OSHO as an exclusive trademark. In the United States, on 13 January 2009, the exclusive rights that OIF held over the trademark were finally lost. OIF filed a Notice of Appeal on 12 March, but eventually filed for withdrawal in the Court of Appeals on 19 June, thus cancelling the trademarks of Osho in the US.\nOn 16 March 2018, Netflix released a 6-part documentary entitled \"Wild Wild Country\" regarding the Rajneesh movement.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44181579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44181579", "title": "Recovery of Orthodox Churches in the Second Polish Republic", "text": "Recovery of Orthodox Churches in the Second Polish Republic\n\nThe Recovery of Orthodox Churches in the Second Polish Republic was an action led by successive governments of the Polish state from 1919 to 1939. There were several phases of the action from 1919 to 1924, 1929 to 1934, and 1937 to 1938.\n\nThe restitution action formed part of the general policy of the Second Republic against the Polish Orthodox Church, which aimed to minimize the social and political influence of the Russian, Ukrainian, and Belarusian national minorities. An important motive was also a strong hostility to the Orthodox Church, a religion which was seen as a representative of the partitioning powers on Polish soil, as well as the memory of the \ndissolution of Roman Catholic monasteries in the Russian Empire. Action was initially through spontaneous takeovers of churches by Catholics and in later stages by pre-prepared government plans. Orthodox churches were torn down, closed, adapted to become Roman Catholic churches (as many were originally) or public buildings.\n\nAccording to surviving documents from 1937 to 1938 the goal was total Polonization of areas west of the Bug River (traditionally seen as the border between Catholic and Orthodox Poland) and to maximise Polish cultural influences east of it. These plans were not implemented because of the outbreak of World War II and because of the attitude of the Orthodox Church.\n\nOn December 16, 1918, the head of state issued a decree in which all assets of the Orthodox Church in Poland were put under the administration of the state. Formally, this step was justified by the need to protect the assets of churches abandoned after World War I, during the \"Bieżeństwo\" (the mass exodus of the Orthodox populations from western areas of the then Russian Empire in the face of approaching German troops). The decree did not lose validity even when the population and Orthodox clergy returned to the occupied territories after the war, and after the March constitution guaranteed freedom of religion. Consent to re-open churches and their use for the purpose of worship was issued by the state administration and could not be granted without detailed justification. In 1919, the Ministry of Religious Affairs and Public Education (Ministerstwo Wyznań Religijnych i Oświecenia Publicznego - MWRiOP) ordered seals attached to inactive Orthodox churches, declaring they would take a more comprehensive decision on the Orthodox churches at a later time. In practice, this led to their permanent closures. A July 9, 1919 decree extended this to lands joined to Poland after the Treaty of Riga.\n\nA second decree, the Regulation Commissioner General Directorate of Civil Eastern Territories of October 22, 1919 (rozporządzenie Komisarza Generalnego Zarządu Cywilnego Ziem Wschodnich), known as the \"lex Żeligowski\", only related to areas east of the Bug River. It commanded the return of all church buildings to be operated by the Roman Catholic Church, however it did not address the issue of churches belonging to the Eastern Catholic Churches. Some problems relating to the nationality of the church buildings that had been taken also developed in 1922's temporary regulations on the relationship of government to the Orthodox Church in Poland, which mainly dealt with issues of liturgical language, meeting organisation, conventions, diocesan councils, territorial division of the diocese, education, clergy and Orthodox co-fraternities. After the publication of the temporary regulations, the Orthodox Church was also required to present a complete inventory of existing churches and monasteries, as well as a list of the clergy and the estimated number of its faithful.\n\nIt was only from 1938 to 1939 when statutory solutions to ownership of sacred objects were enacted. In addition to resuming the language issue (it was forbidden to issue religious statements in a language other than Polish), regulation of issues related to the training of religious personnel and the requirement for prayers for the Polish state, the document partially raised the issue of property with more detailed solutions for the next draft law. It set limits on religious land ownership which was relevant as the Orthodox Church still owned 52,200 hectares of land (down from 146,000 hectares in 1918).\n\nDuring the first wave of the recovery, there were spontaneous actions by local Roman Catholic communities in order to take over Orthodox churches for their own use or to close or destroy them. Such an attitude was a reaction to the earlier policies of the Tsarist government, which treated the construction of new Orthodox churches as part of their policy of Russification and often built them in areas where there wasn't a need, or quite consciously constructed them in areas to symbolise Russian rule. This earlier process of Russification by the Tsarist government had included closing down Catholic monasteries, officially banning the building of new churches and giving many of the old ones to the Russian Orthodox church, and banning Catholic schools. The acts of retribution were not done with state or local authority consent, but in some cases they were approved by church authorities.\n\nIn some areas, the latter encouraged the faithful to take over churches: the bishop of Podlaskie, Henryk Przeździecki, issued a special decree on December 11, 1918, which called for the priests of his diocese to immediately restore to the Roman Catholic Church all Orthodox churches which had been originally established as Catholic churches (even those set up as Eastern Catholic churches). He also ordered the immediate reopening of all Roman Catholic churches and chapels closed by the Tsarist authorities. The response to the bishop's call was so great that by 1920, Przeździecki changed his ordinance, leaving the decision open on the fate of specific objects seized from the Orthodox church. Performing these actions was much easier after World War I and the October Revolution because the Orthodox church was in organisational chaos. In 1915, retreating Russian troops often took church equipment with them, especially those from the numerous Orthodox military churches. Many Orthodox clergy left too, gradually returning after 1918.\n\nA specific feature of the first wave was also the recovery and the destruction of churches seen as symbols of Russian rule, such as the Alexander Nevsky Cathedral in Warsaw or the Church of Saints Cyril and Methodius (Cerkiew Świętych Cyryla i Metodego) in Chełm (commemorating the liquidation of the Eastern Catholic diocese of Chelm in 1875). This happened both spontaneously and (in the case of the cathedral in Saxon Square) after long discussions at governmental level. Churches were demolished in Aleksandrów Kujawski, Grajewo, Janów Lubelski, Jędrzejów, Kalisz, Kolno, Kozienice, Lubartów, Lublin, Łask, Łomża, Mława, Modlin Fortress, Opoczno, Osowiec, Ostrów Mazowiecka, Pińczów, Płońsk, Przasnysz, Pułtusk, Raczki, Radomsko, Raduczu, Rawa Mazowiecka, Różan, Rypin, Sieradz, Sierpc, Skierniewice, Słupca, Sosnowiec, Suwałki, Tomaszów Mazowiecki, Warsaw (6 locations), Włocławek and other locations. Some of these places, which did not find their way into the hands of the Catholics, were adapted for secular purposes, for example a former Orthodox church in Ostrołęka became a scrap yard, one in Skierniewice became a granary, and one in Staszów, a theatre.\n\nThe government didn't display a unified position regarding the recovery of churches. Political pressure and pressure from the Catholic Church came in the initial stages, when specific inquiries about the fate of the Orthodox church were considered to favour Catholics. The government was often not thought to have any opinion, which allowed for spontaneous solutions to the problem. The belief of a government bias against it caused much bitterness within the Orthodox Church.\n\nIn practice, the Polish government sought to limit any possible influence of the Orthodox Church, minimising the number of active parishes and Polonizing Orthodox churches associated not only with the Tsar, but - as time went on to an even greater extent - with the Ukrainian national movement. Thus, there were differences in policies for the individual regions. The areas inhabited by an overwhelming majority of Orthodox believers were not massively Catholicised, however measures were carried out to subordinate the hierarchy of the Orthodox church. On the other hand, they totally tried to deny the Orthodoxy in Chełm and Podlasie, according to the declaration by Lublin governor Stanislaw Moskalewski, who in 1921 announced that the country west of the Bug River was purely Polish. In a similar vein, the MWRiOP commented in a February 5, 1924, letter that \"the Lublin province (...) should strive to Polonize Orthodoxy or displace it in favour of the Roman Catholic Church\". Earlier, in 1919, it was established that 5,000 faithful was the norm for the creation of permanently functioning Orthodox parish, while removing the clergy of a closed church would hold back the local population from demanding that it re-open. Back in the 1920s there were cases where a church which had been closed at the request of the population, would re-open for a particularly important holiday, then the practice disappeared, because, according to the governor of Lublin, such temporary openings \"evoke bitterness in the population and unwanted reflections\". Another constant feature of state policy towards the Orthodox church was not issuing construction permits for new churches or for the renovation of existing ones damaged during World War I. Only the governor of the Volyn province, Henryk Józewski, inquired of the MWRiOP whether it could not be more flexible to approve applications for the construction of houses of prayer. This eventually earned a command to send any application that the office deemed appropriate in for evaluation at a central level. The Minister stated that it \"MWRiOP (...) in principle is opposed to the erection of new houses of worship in places where a fixed Pastoral base is provided for\".\n\nIn 1921, the MWRiOP completed work on the first draft of the Act completing the issue of the church, which clearly resolved the issue of ownership of Roman Catholic and Eastern Catholic churches in favour of the Roman Catholic Church and the Ministry reserved the right to decide the fate of any church built on state land with state funds or from contributions of the population. The government discussed this project on December 15, 1921, but in fear of the outbreak of mass Orthodox discontent, completely abandoned its consideration. The text was then supplemented with a caveat that a church, even located in a former Catholic church, can remain in the hands of the Orthodox church if it is actively used by the Orthodox community. This solution, however, was conditional on the consent of the bishop of the appropriate Catholic diocese.\n\nHowever, on May 24, 1921, progress of recovery actions in the Lublin region and local interfaith relations exacerbated the situation to such an extent that the MWRiOP had to not only prohibit further occupation of the churches, but also suspend the execution of orders already obtained by Catholics. The relevant regulation was sent to provincial governors. Despite this, proposals and memoranda concerning churches were still received subsequently and had repeated conflicting situations, although on a smaller scale. The most famous location transferred to Catholics after the formal termination was the recovery of a monastery in Zahorowie (Cerkiew Świętych Piotra i Pawła w Zahorowie).\n\nIn 1925, the Presidium of the Council of Ministers adopted theses responding to the problem of the recovery of the current state of possession of churches with the Orthodox churches and Catholic churches resolving future disputes by mutual agreement, the acquisition of inactive churches by the government, and opening closed churches in the case of real needs of the local community. Declarations of religious liberty and the equality of the two religions, however, had practical consequences. The document was rejected by Bishop Henryk Przeździecki. Przeździecki was also outraged by the placing of the two religions on the same level.\n\nThe problem of church ownership was repeatedly on parliamentary agendas, being raised by different groups. On July 28, 1922, at the request of the Administrative Commission, the Sejm adopted a resolution in which the government was called upon to submit a resolution, which would regulate the issue of the return of Catholic objects confiscated by the Tsarist regime (it did not refer to whether the objects were of Roman Catholic or Eastern Catholic origin though). Since it did not have an adequate resolution, the Committee on the Constitution began to receive large numbers of letters about specific churches and monasteries, written by local Catholics. The Commission moved debate on the issue in the Sejm to 8 February 1924. The result was resolutions in the first Parliament demanded a law regulating the issue, and the second individual administration confirmed recovery of a Catholic church in Lutsk. Ukrainian MPs demanded a third resolution, which asked for Parliament to restrain from further Orthodox property acquisitions until the publication of the relevant act. This proposal was rejected.\n\nThe reactions of the population and the Orthodox clergy to the restitution actions was varied. Reclamation of some churches wasn't met with resistance because they were closed, especially in the case of Orthodox churches taken and converted from earlier Roman Catholic or Eastern Catholic churches. Actions only triggered strong controversy in areas inhabited by a large percentage of the Orthodox church followers, where controversial facilities were actively being used by the local population. Both sides tried to gain the support for its case with the local authorities and the government, writing memoranda and relying on the harm suffered in the past (by Catholics) or by the guaranteed freedom of religion (by the Orthodox). The Orthodox faithful also had the support of Belarusian and Ukrainian organizations, which strengthened their case in Polish national policy. The Lublin Provincial Governor stated that \"the issue of closed churches (...) is the starting point of action of anti-state subversive elements, preying on the dissatisfaction of the population, as well as Ukrainian nationalists seeking influence among the population\".\n\nThere were often clashes and the destruction of Orthodox property, and people were wounded and arrested. In 1919, during the forced retaking of the Narodzenia Bogurodzicy na Górce Orthodox church in Chełm, a mob destroyed the tombs of Orthodox and Eastern Catholic bishops. In turn, the church's ordination ceremonies at Catholic churches were often arranged in very sumptuous ways, arranging the occasions as \"manifestations of being Polish\" and sometimes coincided with a conflict between the faithful of both religions. In Ubrodowice, a group of Catholics seeking to take over the Św. Eliasza church, defended by 60 Orthodox people, were injured. In response to these actions the Metropolitan of Warsaw and the entire Polish Orthodox leadership formally approved the pre-existing practice of celebrating major events by sending priests to closed Orthodox churches, encouraging this kind of action. The MWRiOP then demanded a limit to such activities, citing the presence of the strong political emphasis during this type of worship.\n\nRecovery actions in the first years of independence was also commented on in the press. Leon Radziejowski, in a Rzeczpospolita article titled \"Playing with fire\", noted that while the actions of Tsarist authorities taking Catholic churches was illegal, the issue of the fate of the controversial buildings directly threatened to have an undermining internal effect. Critical voices on the recovery of churches also appeared in the pages of the foreign press.\n\nAccording to estimates by the Ministry in 1914, 630 Orthodox churches operated in Polish lands located in former Eastern Catholic premises and 240 were formerly Roman Catholic churches. In the course of actions to reclaim churches, Roman Catholics took over 175 originally Eastern Catholic churches, and 140 formerly Roman Catholic churches. The Orthodox church still controlled 350 churches and 80 buildings. Other facilities were closed, destroyed or transferred to secular use, with nearly 70% of the churches taken over by Roman Catholics by spontaneous actions without the permission of the authorities.\n\nDuring the first wave of the recoveries, state authorities also took parts of the estates and buildings of Orthodox monasteries when their pre-war inhabitants did not return. This happened in the case of female monasteries in Berezwecz, Leśna, Radecznica, Różanystok, Teolin, Turkowice, Wirów, and a male monastery in Supraśl. In turn, the Roman Catholic Church reclaimed a female monastery: St. Marii Magdaleny in Vilnius (furnished by the Tsarist authorities with objects taken from the Sisters of the Visitation), the church of St. Mikołaja in Dubno (in buildings which were originally Cistercian) and buildings in Volodymyr-Volynskyi and Zahorów Nowy.\n\nKonstanty Srokowski, reporting to Prime Minister Władysław Sikorski on the final results of the actions, did not speak enthusiastically about them and wrote that the Catholic rationale for actions east of the Bug River, whose population had an Orthodox majority, became \"increasingly more slender and doubtful\".\n\nA characteristic feature of this period was the adoption of legal tactics by the Catholic Church. The Archbishop of Vilnius Romuald Jałbrzykowski, the Bishop of Lutsk, Adolf Szelążek, and the Bishop of Pinsk, Zygmunt Łoziński filed a total of 755 lawsuits against various entities about 553 objects from the past including 202 of Roman Catholic origin. Among them were requests for the return of objects that played a special role in the life of the Orthodox clergy - the Dermań and Pochayiv Lavra monasteries, the monastery and the church of the Holy Spirit in Vilnius, and monasteries in Kremenets, Zimno and Zhyrovichy. They repeatedly filed lawsuits related to churches in villages with an overwhelming majority of Orthodox people (in 65 cases, in villages where there was a disputed church and no Catholics), or places that throughout their entire existence were Orthodox (the Monastery of St. Onuphrius in Jabłeczna only stayed Orthodox because of opposition from the Governor of Lublin).\n\nThe Catholic church was well aware that if the Orthodox church conceded to all the legal actions, it would deprive them of a third of the religious buildings in their possession. The Catholic News Agency, commenting on the case, allowed for the possibility that civil unrest would result, but constantly emphasized the need to redress wrongs suffered in the time of the annexation. They did realise however that the number of lawsuits caused issues with not only the Orthodox, but caused doubts among the Catholic faithful, so they issued large numbers of brochures arguing that it was possible to re-transfer disputed objects, and that they would abandon pastoral work in places where there were no Catholics.\n\nDiscussion on restitution was even more lively than during the first wave of church acquisitions, and at the same time the issue of property of the Eastern Catholic Church was raised, questioning the right of Roman Catholics to take over those objects, which should legally have been returned to the Eastern Catholic Church.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church created a bad impression by their undervaluations of the disputed objects, for example the Pochayiv Lavra monastery and its assets were valued at 2,000 złoty. In their actions the Roman Catholic Church in Poland got clear support from the Holy See, but the Greek Catholic Metropolitan Andrey Sheptytsky, warned against new religious coercion. To defend themselves, the Metropolitan of Warsaw Dionizy (Waledyński) published a special pastoral letter, in which he called upon the faithful to raise money for the legal defence. The act of raising funds also involved the clergy, and a committee coordinating all activities was appointed. Publicly, Catholic bishops justified their lawsuits by consistently claiming that their only concerns were buildings which historically and legally belonged to the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nIn 1929, the state authorities also planned to demolish \"unnecessary\" churches, specifically to demolish 97 buildings. Parallel to this was the policy of keeping a number of churches closed, even when they were in Orthodox areas. This time the action was met with a sharp protest from the Orthodox community, the Ukrainian parliamentary representation and the hierarchy of the Orthodox Church. On October 26, 1929 in the Metropolitan's pastoral letter, he called for the unification of the entire Orthodox community in Poland, sacrifice to pay for legal assistance, and prayer. Russian and Ukrainian organisations (a special committee chaired by Serhij Chruckyj developed and published documents relating to the recovery of churches) additionally appealed to the Sejm. Protests also flowed in from the Ukrainian Orthodox Church and from outside Poland, with protests held in Europe, the USA and Japan, and one of the organisations even appealed to the League of Nations. Meanwhile, the Minister of Education Czerwinski, when repeatedly asked by MPs about the fate of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, pretended to be unfamiliar with the topic. He assured them that there was no plans to demolish churches and that he was not aware of cases of desecration of religious objects. Finally, the overwhelming attitude of the Orthodox community meant that fewer churches (23 of them) were destroyed than had initially been planned.\n\nThe official position of the government on the issue of the recovery of churches was expressed by minister Sławomir Czerwiński in January 1930, declaring the need to take into account the demands of all faiths. The government was strongly supportive of concepts of the Catholicism of the eastern borderlands and continued the predetermined policy of Polonizing the Polish Orthodox Church and limiting the development of their religion. On the other hand, government circles feared activism within the Orthodox and Ukrainian communities, as well as violence. Therefore, it considered it dangerous to leave matters in the hands of court. Eventually, on January 16, 1934, an official statement from the Supreme Court closed the judicial path to take over churches.\n\nThe government had been talking with a Pontifical Commission, eager to forge a common position and consistently enforce them on the Orthodox Church. On April 23, 1932 the government resigned from discussions of the problem of the Eastern Catholic Church as too complex, but the Roman Catholic Church repeatedly returned to the subject. There were two approaches to solve the problem - an express agreement between the interested churches or the government's commitment to provide Catholics with those objects which they indicated as necessary. Meanwhile, the government sought to establish specific numbers in regard to the movement of Orthodox churches, Roman Catholic churches and Eastern Catholic churches by conducting further research as to their fates.\n\nA separate project was presented by the government for monasteries. A document from February 1, 1936, announced the liquidation of the monastery of the Holy Trinity (Cerkiew Św. Trójcy i klasztor Bazylianów) in Vilnius, the merger of female monasteries in Vilnius and Berezwecz (buildings of the latter had been taken previously) and the closure of the Skete subordinate of the Pochayiv Lavra. Implementation of this was planned but did not take place.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Polish government finally bowed to the assimilation of national minorities, thereby pre-empting the maximum Polonization of the Orthodox. Significant to this was the speech by the governor of Lublin, Józef Rożniecki, in 1935, for which the factor of the Russification of the Orthodox has become a potential tool of the Ukrainian national movement, and which, therefore, called for a decisive battle for its Polonization. In a speech on 31 January 1935: \"The Role of the Church must correspond to the Polish state, the reason of state, and thus be a factor conducive to the spirit of the raison d'état, involve citizens in the first row of the Polish State, and for the Lublin region must be a factor of Polonization. We strive to Polonize Orthodoxy.\"\n\nAn important role was also played in military circles, demanding a more and more definitive solution to the problems of religious and civil Polonization in Chełm and Lublin, by force. In 1935, during a secret convention dedicated to the Ukrainian population, the Lublin civil administration openly carried on this conversation with the military, represented by General Mieczysław Smorawiński. The military demanded Polonization of the entire area between the Bug and Wieprz rivers to reduce the Ukrainian problem in these areas \"to the role of small issues\", comparable to the issue of Czech settlers or Germans in Volhynia in the district of Chełm. The convention concluded its findings in 35 points making up the program for further proceedings against the Ukrainian minority. Several of the points related to Orthodoxy, ordering its Polonization and preventing further expansion of its structures, including through the creation of non-permanent establishments.\n\nAfter the death of Józef Piłsudski, these trends increased in strength, which was reflected in the establishment of the Minorities Committee, which at the first meeting addressed the issue of the Orthodox Church and upheld the concept of its Polonization, and eventually created the conditions to move the population to Roman Catholicism as the best guarantee of being Polish. According to a document prepared by the Coordinating Committee at the Headquarters Corps District No. II in Lublin, Orthodox Christians were to be divided into three categories: people close to the transition to Catholicism, people forcibly converted to Orthodoxy already associated with that faith, and nationally conscious Ukrainians and Orthodox. If you were attached to the Orthodox Church, but were also Polish, the document recommended careful Polonization, so as not to alienate the people with the demand of immediate conversion.\n\nWith regard to the conscious Ukrainians recommended while promoting the position that:\n\n\"The Republic and the vast majority of its citizens refers to the construction of a Ukrainian State but outside the current borders of the Poland.\"\n\nIn parallel was ordered:\n\n\"The progress of this group of Ukrainians should by all possible means be hindered and ridiculed and to prevent the passage of influence of Eastern Galicia and Volyn.\"\n\nThe formal reason for the demolition of the Orthodox churches would be to remove many unnecessary objects built by the Tsarists which were symbols of Russification and more symbolic than practical. The actual reason, officially not invoked, was the struggle against the Ukrainian movement, as most of the symbols of the church had been destroyed or transferred directly to the Catholic Church after 1918. Particular attention was paid to the closed churches in towns where a significant percentage of the population were Orthodox and actively wanted them to be reopened. Unlike previous waves of the recovery, the government took care to create the right atmosphere, inspiring a series of newspaper articles in support of affirmative action claiming that Orthodox churches may cause re-Russification or Ukrainianization in places of mixed ethnic composition. At the same time the government officially, through Prime Minister Felicjan Sławoj Składkowski, declared a willingness to have prudent policy towards national minorities.\n\nDemolition of the churches took place from May to July, 1938, with the demolitions performed by hired workers, prisoners, engineers or firemen. The Commander in Chief was General Bruno Olbrycht (replaced on May 21 by Colonel Marian Turkowski), and the new governor of Lublin, Major Jerzy Albin de Tramecourt, who was an overt supporter of Polonization. On January 20, 1938, Olbrycht provided detailed guidance: at a county level, guidance officers coming from local military units were to be appointed to head the field teams. Olbrycht also emphasized the importance of the ideological framing for the entire project, consistently emphasizing the validity of the Polonization actions. A special role was marked for the Society for the Development of Eastern Territories (Towarzystwu Rozwoju Ziem Wschodnich). In April of the same year, Olbrycht also presented a demand for the areas to be saturated with Roman Catholic priests.\n\nThere were commonly cases of destruction and desecration of religious objects. In most cases the local population, intimidated, made no attempt to stop this, and only watched the demolitions. Only in a few cases did the faithful risk beatings by the police or get into brawls with workers. Once in court, this usually ended with the defeat of the local population. The breakthrough was a judgment about 30 people from the village of Chmielek (where a church built in 1796 was destroyed) who were acquitted by the judge Stanisław Markowski. From this point on, investigations into people defending Orthodox property were redeemed.\n\nDuring the demolition of churches actions were made without clear criteria. In protest, in parliament July 21, 1938, Polish-Ukrainian politician Stepan Baran listed the cases of dismantling of active monasteries and sites that had been places of worship for centuries. Only five demolished churches had been attended by fewer than 1,000 faithful. The authorities also closed a number of non-permanent establishments.\n\nWhile the Orthodox population made no attempt to actively resist, they more often protested through legal means, using the representatives of the Ukrainian minority in parliament, and through memorials and complaints directly to the government and the Marshal of the Sejm. The authors recounted the cases of church demolitions, and complained of acts of aggression on the part of some participants. The unambiguous attitude towards the government did not have much effect. President Mościcki only contacted Metropolitan Dionizy (Waledyński) at the beginning of April, 1938.\n\nFrom June 30 to July 2 there was an extraordinary congress of Orthodox Church clergy in Chełm, and they wrote a memorandum addressed to the Speakers of both parliamentary chambers, the MRRiOP and the president, and then chose a delegation of lay people to hand it to the correct people. On July 6, the Metropolitan once again sent a telegram to the Prime Minister and the Speaker Edward Rydz-Śmigły, in which he asked for the destruction to stop. Ten days later, as actions to destroy churches continued, the Council of Bishops of the Polish Orthodox Church prepared another memorandum to the state authorities, who had been the recipients of the previous memorandum. They expressed deep sorrow about the government actions, solidarity with the people deprived of their Orthodox churches, and stated that they would not have thought that such a cruel and undeserved blow would fall on Christian churches in a Christian country, something which could be compared to what happened in Godless countries.\n\nA separate pastoral letter, the call was made for a three-day fast on the first days of August, it appealed for people to refrain from revenge and expressing admiration towards those who refused to convert. This text was confiscated by the authorities and the clergy who had read it during services were punished.\n\nUkrainian politicians in parliament, Stepan Baran, Stepan Ivanovych Skrypnyk and Father Marcin Wołkow protested against the demolition of churches. The latter filed an application for the appointment of a committee of inquiry, which would examine the overall relationship between the Orthodox Church and the Polish government but the Speaker of Parliament said this was unconstitutional and did not put the proposal to a vote. Mr Baran in his speech, called for the cessation of pressure on Orthodox clergy on the use of the Polish language in preaching and teaching of religion, and called for the guarantee of freedom to profess the Orthodox faith. Ukrainian organizations protested, including those related to the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, with Metropolitan Archbishop Andrey Sheptytsky issuing a pastoral letter on the case. This also was confiscated by the Polish administration. Protests poured in from other Orthodox Churches in the Ukraine and Russia. In July 1938, the latter group organized a demonstration of solidarity with the Polish Orthodox Christians in New York City and Winnipeg.\n\nLeftist Polish newspapers strongly condemned the activities of the State and the Catholic Church, with the PPS's People's Daily stating that by forcing Roman Catholicism on people and fighting against Orthodoxy people missed was the chance of living with Polish national minorities. On the pages of the Vilnius newspaper \"Słowo\", they strongly criticized the actions in Podlasie and Chełm. Conservative columnist Stanisław Mackiewicz called the action a \"cardinal mistake\" and claiming that its authors should appear before a state tribunal. The official authorities of the Catholic Church, in spite of many accusations of them inspiring, or at least supporting, the destruction of the churches, did not reply to objections posed to them, and only after the action stated that it had no connection with it.\n\nIn terms of political success, the action failed to fulfil its tasks. The sense of danger, common in the Orthodox Church, had contributed to its consolidation and further strengthened the influence of the Ukrainian movement within it. There was a revival of nationalist sentiments among Ukrainians, strengthened contacts between representatives of the nationalities in Podlasie and Chełm and in Volhynia and Galicia. The Governor of Lublin even feared possible riots.\n\nThe destruction of churches, unlike the previous recoveries of Orthodox properties, was brought to an end against the resistance of the faithful and the clergy. A report from the Governor of Lublin on July 16 indicated that at this point the authorities concluded there was no longer sufficient churches to deal with and started to mute the moods associated with the actions. The same document states that in the course of operations, 91 Orthodox churches, 26 prayer houses and 10 chapels were destroyed. In addition, four churches were adapted to be Roman Catholic churches, and one, dominated by the faithful who would not be removed from it, was later given to the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe Orthodox Church was left with practically the minimum necessary of surviving churches, with 20 churches built after 1918 also having been destroyed. Many monuments of culture were destroyed including a church in Szczebrzeszyn which dated from the 16th century, one in Biała Podlaska from 1582, and one in Zamość from 1589. This stopped thousands of the faithful from participating in Orthodox celebrations and some of them, against their will, had to formally adopt Catholicism or begin to participate in the rites celebrated in Roman Catholic churches. In 1938, the Orthodox Church lost a third of all their churches.\n\nIn December 1937, contrary to the opinion of the regional governor Henryk Józewski, the action of forced conversion of local communities to Roman Catholicism in the Volyn region was launched, justified by the need to return Polish people \"Russified\" from the era of the partitions. The first settlement where the action was performed, was Hryńki, where a branch of the Border Protection Corps (Korpusu Ochrony Pogranicza), after insulting the villagers portraits of dignitaries of state, received documents from 40 peasants, forbade residents from leaving Hryńki after sunset and surrounded the village. The end result of these actions was the passage from Orthodoxy to Catholicism of 572 peasants. Similar methods in the Volyn region continued until 1939 effecting ten thousand people. The Government consistently argued that all converts voluntarily changed their religion. The Ukrainian Orthodox Church maintained, however, that the majority of converts to Catholicism did so under the influence of blackmail and coercion, or because of conflicts with local Orthodox clergy. It is now known that those in charge of conversion made promises to give land to the peasants after changing to Catholicism, and argued that their ancestors belonged to the Catholic nobility, but they also used arrest and intimidation to convert those of Orthodox faith.\n\nRoman Catholic clergy actively participated in conversions to Catholicism, directly promoting their religion among the population and steadily expanding networks of parishes. Some parishes were established at the same time in areas where only small groups of Catholics lived, or did not have any faithful at all, especially on greenfield sites. The only strong existing rural centres of Catholicism in the Volyn region were in Huta, Kuty, Wyrka, and Zasmyki.\n\nDespite the completion of the emergency demolition of the churches, the administration continued steps to Polonize the Orthodox Church and reduce its influence. They were particularly active encouraging the Polish language to be used in sermons and pastor's informal contacts with the faithful in place of Ukrainian or Belarusian.\n\nThe administration of the province of Lublin, despite a duty for governors to detail progress on Polonization, found that pushing the Polish language into churches was encountering serious difficulties, since the majority of the clergy and the Orthodox faithful clearly identified with Ukrainian, Belarusian or Russian nationalities and spoke one of those three languages.\n\nIn the first half of 1939 activities to promote the transition to Catholicism continued, but also the effects didn't go as well as planned. New guidelines for the continuation of Polonization activities argued for the dismissal of administrative positions of non-Polish origin, strict control of the Orthodox clergy, and actively supporting the development of Roman Catholic structures in areas populated by the Orthodox. The head of the conversion activities, Colonel Marian Turkowski, openly emphasized that the purpose of the activities was to confirm that \"only Poles in Poland are full citizens and only they have something to say in Poland\".\n\nOn February 23, 1939, the Lublin Provincial Office organized another conference, during which the representatives of the government, the army and local administration discussed policies on nationalities and religions. Governor Jerzy de Tramecourt declared the need to further increase Polish state ownership in the Lublin region by creating a nobility and settlement program, designed to break established historical clusters of Ukrainians. Ultimately, the region of Lublin and Chełm would be thoroughly cleansed of the Orthodox population and the population who strongly identifying with Ukrainian nationality. These actions were planned for the end of 1941 but were not implemented due to the outbreak of World War II.\n\nThe issue of membership of a church was related to the problem of cemeteries, especially those operating at idle or closed churches and Eastern Catholic cemeteries then used by the Orthodox Church. As in the case of churches, until 1938 there lacked a clear and lasting legal solution, and the key role was played by regional authorities. The MWRiOP, not wanting to provoke further conflict, was of the opinion that the cemeteries at recovered churches be made available to the Orthodox, even though they were now Catholic. Despite this, there were cases where local authorities did not respect this order and refused access to Orthodox cemeteries. The final solution adopted by the President of the Second Republic allowed the possibility of creating Orthodox cemeteries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47816808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47816808", "title": "Religion in Northeast China", "text": "Religion in Northeast China\n\nThe predominant religions in Northeast China (including the provinces of Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang, historically also known as Manchuria) are Chinese folk religions led by local shamans. Taoism and Chinese Buddhism were never well established in this region of recent Han Chinese settlement (Han people began to be a large part of the population only by the Qing dynasty). For this reason the region has been a hotbed for folk religious and Confucian churches, which provide a structure, clergy, scriptures and ritual to the local communities. The Way of the Return to the One, the Universal Church of the Way and its Virtue (Shanrendao), and more recently the Falun Gong, have been the most successful sects in Manchuria, claiming millions of followers. Schools of Tibetan Buddhism, traditionally transmitted by the region's Mongol minorities, have made inroads also among Han Chinese.\n\nThe period of the Japanese occupation (1931) and the establishment of an independent \"Manchukuo\" (1932–1945), saw the development of Japanese scholarship on the local religion, and later the establishment of Shinto shrines and sects.\n\nThe native Manchu population, today mostly assimilated to the Han Chinese, practices Han religions but has also maintained pure Manchu shamanism. The local Chinese folk religion has developed many patterns inherited from Manchu and Tungus shamanism, making it different from central and southern folk religion.\n\nAccording to surveys conducted in 2007 and 2009, 7.73% of the population believes and is involved in cults of ancestors, while 2.15% of the population identifies as Christian. The reports didn't give figures for other types of religion; 90.12% of the population may be either irreligious or involved in worship of nature deities, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, folk religious sects, and small minorities of Muslims. The Mongol minority mostly practices Mongolian folk religion and Tibetan-originated schools of Buddhism, while the Korean minority is mostly affiliated to Korean shamanism and Christianity.\n\nThe Chinese folk religion practiced by the Han Chinese who migrated in large numbers in the region by the Qing dynasty, mostly from Hebei and Shandong, has absorbed and developed models of deities and rituals from the indigenous religions of the Manchu and the other Tungusic peoples, making the folk religion of northeastern China different from the folk religion of central and southern provinces of China. Among these influences is the shamanic tradition of the region, known as \"chūmǎxiān\" (出马仙, \"riding for the immortals\"). Fox Gods, generally Great Lord of the Three Foxes (\"Húsān Tàiyé\" 胡三太爷) and Great Lady of the Three Foxes (\"Húsān Tàinǎi\" 胡三太奶), are the most revered deity in the region, with clear parallels in the Japanese cult of Inari Ōkami.\n\nAccording to the 2007 Chinese Spiritual Life Survey, 7.73% of the population believes and is involved in the traditional Chinese religion of the lineage, that is the worship of the divine ancestors of a kinship (group of families sharing the same surname and descending from the same patriarchs) in networks of lineage churches and their ancestral shrines. Taoism and Confucianism have developed in the region since the 1980s.\n\nNortheast China (Manchuria) has been a hotbed for salvationist sects of the folk religion mostly introduced from Shandong and Hebei. They developed greatly throughout the 20th century. The Yiguandao (一貫道 \"Consistent Way\") had a strong presence in the area, but were especially the Guiyidao (皈依道 \"Way of the Return to the One\") and the Universal Church of the Way and its Virtue (also called Shanrendao) to have millions of followers in northeastern China.\n\nThe Holy Church of the Confucian Way (儒门圣教 \"Rúmén Shèngjiào\", also \"Confucian Gate Shengism\", 门 \"mén\" meaning figuratively a \"way\" as a \"gate[way]\") is a folk religious tradition widespread in modern-day Liaoning, with apparent links (at least by name) with the Ruzong Luandao (\"Confucian Traditional Phoenix Way\") and the Shengdao (\"Holy Way\") clusters of sects.\n\nAmong folk religious sects, the Falun Gong was founded in the 1990s in Jilin by Li Hongzhi, and was widespread mostly in northeastern China at the time when it was outlawed by the central government.\n\nShanrendao (善人道 \"Way of the Virtuous Man\"), is a Confucian religious movement founded in the 1920s by Jiang Shoufeng (1875-1926) and his son Jiang Xizhang (1907-2004), and led in the 1930s by the charismatic healer and preacher Wang Fengyi (王凤仪 1864-1937). Its names as a social body are the \"Universal Church of the Way and its Virtue\" (万国道德会 \"Wànguó Dàodéhuì\") or the \"Church of the Way and its Virtue\" (道德会 \"Dàodéhuì\"), also simply \"Morality Church\". Its doctrine, based on a synthesis of traditional Chinese theology and cosmology, holds that spiritual healing can be achieved through traditional Confucian morality, rituals and good actions, and extinction of vices and selfishness.\n\nIn the 1930s, under Wang's leadership, the church gathered 8 million followers in Manchuria, that was 25% of the population. The Universal Church of the Way and its Virtue ceased to exist as a social organisation recognised by political authorities the People's Republic of China since the Communist Revolution of 1949 until recent decades. Shanrendao persisted as an \"underground\" movement across the Maoist period and the Cultural Revolution.\n\nSince the relaxation of antireligion policies in the 1980s the movement has resurfaced and it has grown back especially in its heartland, northeast China (Manchuria), where the members preach filiality and Wang Fengyi's healing methods mostly organised in the form of house churches. Lineages of local healers are organised in \"farms\", and successfully employ storytelling, lectures on virtue, personal confessions, and a set of five chanted affirmations modeled on the five elements.\n\nThe region is home to Chinese Buddhist schools and traditions and Tibetan Buddhist traditions, which are popular among Mongols as well as increasingly among Manchus and Han Chinese. The Jile Temple is an important Chinese Buddhist centre in Harbin.\n\nDuring the period of the Japanese occupation (1931) and the \"Manchukuo\" (1932–1945) the Japanese conducted scholarly research on the local folk religion and established Shinto shrines, although without trying to impose Shinto on the native populations as it was the case in occupied Korea and occupied Taiwan, as the Manchurian State was conceived as a spiritually autonomous nation.\n\nMany Japanese new religions, or independent Shinto sects, proselytised in Manchuria establishing hundreds of congregations. Most of the missions belonged to the Omoto teaching, the Tenri teaching and the Konko teaching of Shinto. The Omoto teaching is the Japanese near equivalent of Guiyidao, as the two religions have common roots and history.\nAccording to the Chinese General Social Survey of 2009, Christianity is the religion of 2.15% of the population of the region. Many Christians are reportedly Koreans. Christianity has a strong presence in the Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture, in Jilin. The Christianity of Yanbian Koreans has a patriarchal character; Korean churches are usually led by men, in contrast to Chinese churches which more often have female leadership. For instance, of the 28 registered churches of Yanji, only three of which are Chinese congregations, all the Korean churches have a male pastor while all the Chinese churches have a female pastor.\n\nMoreover, Korean church buildings are stylistically very similar to South Korean churches, with big spires surmounted by large red crosses. Yanbian Korean churches have been a matter of controversy for the Chinese government because of their links to South Korean churches.\n\nNortheast China is home to a small number of Hui Chinese who traditionally follow Islam. As of 2010 there are 52,100 Muslims in the region, equal to 0.04% of the total population.\n\n"}
{"id": "50091756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50091756", "title": "Snowdrops from a Curate's Garden", "text": "Snowdrops from a Curate's Garden\n\nSnowdrops from a Curate's Garden is a collection of erotic poetry by the English author and occultist Aleister Crowley under the pseudonym \"George Archibald Bishop\", published in Paris in 1904.\n\n"}
{"id": "14438917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14438917", "title": "St. Catherine's taffy", "text": "St. Catherine's taffy\n\nSt. Catherine's Taffy is a variety of taffy made in Quebec to celebrate the feast day of Saint Catherine of Alexandria.\n\nSt. Catherine's Taffy is a candy made by girls in Quebec to honour St. Catherine, the patron saint of unmarried women on her feast day, November 25. St. Catherine's day is sometimes known in Quebec as \"taffy day,\" a day when marriage-age girls would make taffy for eligible boys. Marguerite Bourgeoys, a founder of the Notre-Dame de Montréal and an early teacher at Ville-Marie, the colonial settlement that would later become Montreal is credited with starting the tradition as a way of keeping the attention of her young students.\n\n"}
{"id": "271181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271181", "title": "Tammy Faye Messner", "text": "Tammy Faye Messner\n\nTamara Faye \"Tammy\" Messner (née LaValley; March 7, 1942July 20, 2007), formerly Tammy Faye Bakker, was an American Christian singer, evangelist, entrepreneur, author, talk show host, and television personality. She initially gained notice for her work with \"The PTL Club\", a televangelist program she co-founded with her husband Jim Bakker in 1974. Prior to founding \"The PTL Club\", they had hosted their own puppet show series for local programming in Minnesota in the early 1970s, and Messner also had a career as a recording artist. In 1978, she and Bakker built Heritage USA, a Christian theme park.\n\nMessner would garner significant publicity when Jim Bakker was indicted, convicted, and imprisoned on numerous counts of fraud and conspiracy in 1989, resulting in the dissolution of \"The PTL Club\". After divorcing Bakker in 1992, she remarried to Roe Messner. She was diagnosed with colon cancer in 1996, of which she suffered intermittently for over a decade before dying of the disease in 2007.\n\nOver the course of her career, Messner was noted for her eccentric and glamorous persona, as well as for her moral views that diverged from those of many mainstream Evangelists, particularly her acceptance of the LGBT community and reaching out to HIV/AIDS patients at the height of the AIDS epidemic.\n\nThe eldest of eight children, Tammy Faye was born Tamara Faye LaValley in International Falls, Minnesota, to Pentecostal preachers Rachel Minnie (née Fairchild) and Carl Oliver LaValley.\n\nHer parents were married in 1941. Shortly after she was born, a painful divorce soured her mother against other ministers, alienating her from the church.\n\nIn 1960, she met Jim Bakker while they were students at North Central Bible College in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Tammy Faye worked in a boutique for a time while Jim found work in a restaurant inside a department store in Minneapolis. They were married on April 1, 1961. The following year, they moved to South Carolina, where they began their ministry together, initially traveling around the United States; Bakker preached, while Messner sang songs and played the accordion. In 1970, she gave birth to her daughter, Tammy Sue \"Sissy\" Bakker, and in 1975, gave birth to a son, Jamie Charles Bakker.\n\nBakker and Messner had been involved with television from the time of their departure from Minneapolis until they moved to the Charlotte area via Portsmouth, Virginia, where they were founding members of \"The 700 Club\". While in Portsmouth, they were hosts of the popular children's show \"Jim and Tammy\". They then created a puppet ministry for children on Pat Robertson's Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN), which ran from 1964 to 1973.\n\nMessner co-founded (with Bakker) \"The PTL Club\" (Praise The Lord) in 1974, a televangelist Christian news program that they initially hosted in an abandoned furniture store in Charlotte. The series mixed \"glitzy entertainment with down-home family values\" and preached a \"'prosperity gospel' which put a divine seal of approval on both the growing affluence of American evangelicals and the showy lifestyles of their television ministers.\" \"The PTL Club\" soon grew into its own network and a corporate enterprise within a year of its founding, generating $120 million annually in the 1970s. In 1978, Messner and Bakker used $200 million of PTL funds to build Heritage USA, a Christian retreat and theme park that, at the time, ranked alongside Disney World and Disneyland as one of the most popular theme parks in the United States.\n\nThroughout the series, Messner provided a sentimental and emotive touch to stories, and also often sang Christian songs. She was also noted for her candid discussion of topics considered taboo amongst many of her Evangelist peers, ranging from penile implants to acceptance and compassion for the LGBT community.\n\nAt the height of the AIDS epidemic in the mid-1980s, Messner emotionally interviewed Steven Pieters, a gay Christian minister with AIDS on \"Tammy's House Party,\" a segment of \"The PTL Club\", during which they discussed his sexuality, coming out, diagnosis with AIDS, and the death of his partner. During the program, Messner emotionally addressed her viewership, saying: \"How sad that we as Christians, who are to be the salt of the earth, we who are supposed to be able to love everyone, are afraid so badly of an AIDS patient that we will not go up and put our arm around them and tell them that we care.\" Throughout the AIDS epidemic, Messner advocated for viewers of \"The PTL Club\" to follow Christ and show compassion and pray for the ill, and also invited drug addicts onto the show to interview them about substance abuse.\n\nMessner's friend, the Reverend Mel White, commented on her presence on \"The PTL Club\":\n\nThe Bakkers' control of PTL collapsed in 1987 after revelations that $287,000 had been paid from the organization to buy the silence of Jessica Hahn, who claims Jim Bakker raped her. In his 1997 book, \"I Was Wrong\", Bakker disputed Hahn's account, claiming that he was \"set up\" and that the sex was consensual. The revelations invited scrutiny of the Bakkers, and charges made about their opulent lives, including media reports of an air-conditioned doghouse at their Tega Cay, South Carolina, lakefront parsonage as well as gold-plated bathroom fixtures, dominated newscasts in the 1980s. When asked about her income, Messner told reporters in 1986: \"We don't get what Johnny Carson makes, and we work a lot harder than him.\" The couple's Tega Cay home was later sold by the ministry and burned to the ground not long thereafter. Bakker wrote in his book \"I Was Wrong\" that he watched the home burn on live television while incarcerated. The \"Charlotte Observer\" subsequently ran exposés of PTL's finances and management practices. PTL went bankrupt after being taken over by Lynchburg, Virginia-based Baptist televangelist Jerry Falwell, who offered to step in following the scandals in 1988.\n\nMessner stood by Bakker through the scandal, including several instances when she cried on camera. In 1989 Bakker was sentenced to 45 years in prison on 24 fraud and conspiracy counts. In 1992, while Bakker was still in prison, she filed for divorce, saying in a letter to the New Covenant Church in Orlando, Florida: \"For years I have been pretending that everything is all right, when in fact I hurt all the time...I cannot pretend anymore.\"\n\nOn October 3, 1993, she married property developer Roe Messner in Rancho Mirage, California, after he divorced his own wife. They moved to the Charlotte suburb of Matthews, North Carolina. Tammy and Roe were neighbors to Christian recording star and friend David L Cook. Roe, who had a contracting business, Messner Enterprises in Andover, Kansas, had built much of Heritage USA as well as numerous other large churches and had been a family friend to the Bakkers throughout the PTL years. Roe was the one who produced the money for the $265,000 payment to Hahn, later billing PTL for work never completed on the Jerusalem Amphitheater at Heritage USA. In the Bakkers' fraud trial, Roe testified for Bakker's defense saying that Falwell had sent Messner to the Bakker home in Palm Springs, California, to make an offer to \"keep quiet.\"\n\nIn 1996, Roe was convicted of bankruptcy fraud, having claimed to have owed nearly $30 million to more than 300 creditors in 1990. As he faced sentencing in 1996, he said he could not afford to treat his prostate cancer because he lacked health insurance. He was sentenced to and served 27 months in prison.\n\nThe same year, Messner published her autobiography, \"Tammy: Telling It My Way\", and she co-hosted a TV talk show titled \"The Jim J. and Tammy Faye Show\" with Jim J. Bullock.\n\nIn July 2007, on more solid financial footing, the Messners relocated to Loch Lloyd, Missouri, a suburb of Kansas City. Jim Bakker had relocated his operations to Branson, Missouri, in 2003. Tammy Faye told \"Entertainment Tonight\" they had moved to the \"dream house\" to be closer to Roe's children and grandchildren from his first marriage. The children still live in the Wichita area.\n\nAs her second husband was jailed and she was first diagnosed with colon cancer, she re-entered the public eye in a series of books, movies and television appearances.\n\nShe was the subject of a documentary titled \"The Eyes of Tammy Faye\" (1999), which was narrated by RuPaul, and a follow-up film titled \"Tammy Faye: Death Defying\" (2004).\n\nShe appeared twice on \"The Drew Carey Show\" in 1996 and 1999, playing the mother of character Mimi Bobeck (Kathy Kinney), who was also known for wearing excessive amounts of makeup. On September 11, 2003, she published a new autobiography, \"I Will Survive... and You Will, Too!\", in which she described her battles with cancer and her life with Messner.\n\nDespite her background in Christian fundamentalism, Tammy Faye became a gay icon after her parting from PTL, appearing in Gay Pride marches with such figures as Lady Bunny and Bruce Vilanch. Unlike many American Christian fundamentalists she \"had long refused to denounce homosexuals\" and also expressed compassion towards, and urged support for Americans with HIV/AIDS when it was still a much feared and unknown disease. In the 1980s she interviewed an AIDS patient on her program, \"making an impassioned plea to Christians to love and accept their gay brethren.\" She was benevolently referred to as \"the ultimate drag queen,\"  and said in her last interview with Larry King that, \"When I went — when we lost everything, it was the gay people that came to my rescue, and I will always love them for that.\"\n\nIn early 2004 she appeared on the second season of the VH1 reality television series \"The Surreal Life\". The show chronicled a twelve-day period wherein she, Ron Jeremy, Vanilla Ice, Traci Bingham, Erik Estrada, and Trishelle Cannatella lived together in a Los Angeles house and were assigned various tasks and activities.\n\nTogether, the six put on a children's play and managed a restaurant for a day. She also attended a book signing for her best-seller, \"I Will Survive... And You Will Too\".\n\nAt the end of the show, Messner said she thought of Vanilla Ice and Trishelle Cannatella as children and could relate to them deeply because she had similar feelings and problems when she was their age.\n\nTammy Faye's 11 years with cancer were highly publicized. She was first diagnosed with colon cancer in March 1996, and the disease went into remission by the end of that year.\n\nOn March 19, 2004, Tammy Faye made an appearance on \"Larry King Live\" and announced that she had inoperable lung cancer and would soon begin chemotherapy. She continued receiving chemotherapy throughout mid-2004. On November 30, 2004, also on \"Larry King Live\", she announced that she was cancer free once again. She described the details of her chemotherapy and continued to appear regularly on King's show. A 2004 television documentary of her struggle with cancer was produced in 2004. It was on King's program again that she announced, on July 20, 2005, that her cancer had returned.\n\nOn March 13, 2006, she appeared again on \"Larry King Live\" and stated that she was continuing to suffer from lung cancer, which had reached stage 4, and that she was continuing to receive treatment for it. She also mentioned having difficulty swallowing food, suffering from panic attacks, and enduring substantial weight loss. As her health continued to worsen, a \"Talk of the Town\" article in the October 2, 2006, issue of \"The New Yorker\" stated that she was dying in hospice care, and a December 10, 2006, article in Walter Scott's column in \"Parade\" reported that her son Jay was \"at a North Carolina hospice with his mom, [who is] gravely ill with colon cancer\".\n\nTammy Faye was a guest by phone on CNN's \"Larry King Live\" on December 15, 2006, and stated that she was receiving hospice care in her home. Tammy Faye appeared in her son Jay's documentary series \"One Punk Under God\", wherein she and Jay talked about her cancer treatments. In one episode, Tammy Faye required the use of oxygen in order to talk.\n\nOn May 8, 2007, she issued a statement on her website saying that chemotherapy had stopped, but urging her fans to continue to pray for her. The story was reported on NBC's \"The Today Show\" on May 11, and a feature in which fans and well-wishers could post get-well messages to Tammy was added to her website. As of July 2007, over 228 pages of wishes had been received.\n\nOn July 19, 2007, Tammy Faye made another appearance on CNN's \"Larry King Live\" in what turned out to be her final interview (she died the following day, just hours after the broadcast). At the time, she said she weighed 65 pounds (29.5 kg) and was unable to eat solid food. Messner's husband would later say that he believed that she chose to do the interview to say a final goodbye to her fans.\n\nOn July 20, 2007, Messner died after 11 years with cancer. She was 65 years old. What had started as colon cancer had spread to her lungs. She died in her home, said her publicist, Joe Spotts. A family service was held on the morning of July 21, 2007, in the Messner family plot in Waldron, Kansas. The ceremony was officiated by the Rev. Randy McCain, the pastor of Open Door Community Church in Sherwood, Arkansas. She had frequently spoken about her medical problems, saying she hoped to be an inspiration to others. \"Don't let fear rule your life,\" she said. \"Live one day at a time, and never be afraid.\" She had written on her website in May that the doctors had stopped trying to treat the cancer. She died the day after the airing of her interview on \"Larry King Live\" on CNN. According to CNN.com, the family requested that King officially report the news of her death on July 21, 2007. Her remains were cremated, and her ashes were returned to Waldron Cemetery where they were subsequently buried.\n\nIn June 2006, a stage musical titled \"The Gospel According to Tammy Faye\" opened at the Cincinnati Fringe Festival and was subsequently developed as a larger professional production. The show features songs by J. T. Buck and a book by Fernando Dovalina. The musical is described as a fantasia which takes a balanced and fair look at its subject. The impetus for the show was provided by a lengthy interview that Messner gave the authors in March 2005. The musical aired on August 2006 in Portland, Oregon, and Hood River, Oregon, it was presented on stage at Houston's Alley Theatre at the end of July 2007 under the direction of Les R. Wood. Industry readings presented by the Columbia Gorge Repertory Company were held at the Manhattan Theatre Club in December 2007 the cast including Tony nominee Sally Mayes and veteran Broadway performers William Youmans, Ken Land, Julie Foldesi, James T. Lane and Heather Parcells. The readings were directed by Mindy Cooper. Seth Farber provided musical direction.\n\nAnother musical following the life of Tammy Faye, titled \"Big Tent\", debuted May 23, 2007, at off-Broadway's New World Stages, in New York City. The show features music and lyrics by Ben Cohn and Sean McDaniel, a book by Jeffery Self, and direction by Ryan J. Davis. A star-studded concert of songs from the show opened February 18, 2008, at New York's Metropolitan Room.\n\nA play following the final hours of Tammy Faye, \"Tammy Faye's Final Audition\" by Merri Biechler, premiered at the Cincinnati Fringe Festival on June 2, 2015. The play takes place in a fevered dream at the end of her life wherein she enlists the men in her life for one final TV talk show audition.\n\nA musical about the life of BeBe Winans, \"Born for This\", debuted on June 25, 2018 at the Emerson Cutler Majestic Theatre in Boston, Massachusetts. Tammy Faye and Jim Bakker appear as supporting characters who give BeBe and his sister CeCe their first big break as singers on \"The PTL Club\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7186490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7186490", "title": "The Archbishop", "text": "The Archbishop\n\n\"The Archbishop\" is the third episode of the first series of the BBC sitcom \"Blackadder\" (\"The Black Adder\"). It is set in England in the late 15th century, and follows the exploits of the fictitious Prince Edmund as he is invested as Archbishop of Canterbury amid a Machiavellian plot by the King to acquire lands from the Catholic Church. Most of the humour in the episode relies on religious satire.\n\nThe script pays tribute to the real-life 12th century Archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas Becket. Edmund, faced with the threat of assassination, attempts to escape to France into self-imposed exile; and in a later scene, two drunk knights overhear King Richard IV exclaiming \"Who will rid me of this turbulent priest?\", the words attributed to King Henry II which led to Becket's death in 1170, and embark on a mission to murder Edmund.\n\n\"The Archbishop\" won an International Emmy Award in 1983 in the Popular Arts category.\n\nThe Catholic Church was to be satirized again in the second series, \"Blackadder II\", in the 1986 episode \"Money\".\n\nIn November 1487, the Duke of Winchester, the greatest landowner in the kingdom, is on his deathbed, with King Richard and Godfrey, Archbishop of Canterbury, sitting beside him. Winchester initially plans to leave his lands to the Crown in his will. but Godfrey threatens him with the eternal torments of Hell unless he bequeaths his estate to the Catholic Church. Moments after the will is signed, Winchester dies, and his lands pass on to the Church. Enraged, the King has the Archbishop murdered.\n\nEdmund learns of Archbishop Godfrey's death from his brother Harry and reflects on it scornfully with his companions Lord Percy Percy and Baldrick, remarking that Godfrey was the third Archbishop in a year to suffer such a fate, sarcastically referring to the other absurdly obvious murders as \"tragic accidents\". Edmund then hears of a rumour that Harry is to be appointed as the new Archbishop and speculates gleefully that his brother will also be brutally murdered, thus leaving Edmund next in line for the throne of England. To his horror, King Richard announces the next day that Edmund will be the new Archbishop. Fearing for his life, Edmund tries to grovel his way out of the job, but Richard refuses, threatening to do to him \"what God did unto the Sodomites\" should he anger him.\n\nEdmund attempts to flee to France with Baldrick and Percy, but is caught trying to escape by King Richard and Prince Harry, and claims he was going to Canterbury. Harry accompanies Edmund to Canterbury, where he is ordained as Archbishop of Canterbury and Primate of All England. Edmund takes on Baldrick as a monk and Percy is ordained as Bishop of Ramsgate. All three adopt clerical vestments and shave their heads with a tonsure.\n\nSome time later, news arrives that the wealthy Lord Graveney is on his deathbed. Edmund, fearing reprisals from his father, rushes to Graveney's castle to convince him to leave his lands to the Crown. However, the Bishop of London (the former Archbishop's brother) is already there, attempting to convince Graveney to bequeath his estate to the Church by threatening him with the pains of Hell, just as his brother had done with the dying Duke of Winchester earlier. Graveney confesses to Edmund that he fears damnation for his many sins, which include killing his father so he could have an affair with his own mother over one thousand times. Edmund convinces Graveney that if he were to go to Heaven he would spend eternity \"singing, talking to God and watering pot plants\", contrasting it with a picture of Hell as an opportunity to spend eternity indulging in fornication, murder and pillage. Excited by the prospect of eternal sin, Graveney deeds his lands to the Crown just before dying. In his joy, King Richard embraces Edmund and addresses him as \"my son\".\n\nLater, Baldrick reveals a plan to profit from their ordination by commercialising religious artefacts – selling curses, papal pardons and religious artifacts. He proposes a new product line of holy relics including a set of Shrouds from Turin, a range of anachronistic gifts (such as a pipe racks or a coffee table) purportedly from the carpentry workshop of Jesus Christ, along with a variety of bones and other bodily parts of saints – all revealed to be counterfeit items produced by Baldrick himself. Despite his initial displeasure, Edmund starts to settle in as archbishop, given the benefits the position brings him: he is gaining great new wealth for himself and the crown, for the first time his father actually respects him, and even without needing to kill his brother he has already become a politically powerful man in his own right. \n\nThat night, King Richard and Queen Gertrude drink a toast to Edmund, and Richard remarks that he is grateful that he will never again have to say \"who will rid me of this turbulent priest?\" The end of the sentence is overheard by two drunken knights who take it literally as instructions to murder the current Archbishop of Canterbury. The two assassins surprise Edmund, Baldrick and Percy and attempt to kill them. The trio escape by disguising themselves as nuns, for which they are caught by the Mother Superior. Edmund is promptly excommunicated by the pope (and also two other antipopes), and walks away into a bright, holy light – revealed to be the glow from the fire he set in the nunnery.\n\nIn the epilogue, the Mother Superior laments the corruption of the world, and suggestively informs another nun that she won't be needing \"the unicorn\" that evening – the true nature of which is not revealed.\n\nWilliam Russell, best remembered as Doctor Who companion Ian Chesterton, was a last-minute replacement for actor Wilfrid Brambell in the role of the Duke of Winchester. Brambell walked off set after becoming impatient with delays in shooting the scene. Russell was credited as Russell Enoch.\n\nAmong the scenes cut from the final broadcast version of \"The Archbishop\" was a scene in which Prince Harry consult his newly consecrated brother on the pressing ecclesisatical issues of the day, such as the castration of choirboys and the torture of talkative women. Also cut from the programme was a valedictory soliloquy by Edmund as he prepares to go into exile, bidding farewell to the castle turrets, and King Richard preaching an angry sermon from the pulpit at the funeral of the dead Archbishop Godfrey.\n\nLocation shooting for King Richard's castle was at Alnwick Castle in Northumberland and the surrounding countryside in February 1983. Brinkburn Priory, an authentic reconstruction of a mediaeval monastery church, was used for the scenes of Edmund's consecration at Canterbury Cathedral.\n\nThe depiction of the mediaeval world in \"The Black Adder\" has been the subject of some critical commentary for drawing on popular perceptions of the period which are not always entirely accurate. While the series uses absurdly comic situations to mock religion and belief, the scripts of both \"The Archbishop\" and the later episode \"Witchsmeller Pursuivant\" have been attributed to a post-Reformation perception of Mediaeval Catholicism; Archbishops were not routinely assassinated and hysteria about witches was not widespread in England until the 1640s.\n\nReviewer Katherine J. Lewis draws similarities between Baldrick's relics scene and \"The Pardoner's Tale\" from Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\", whose protagonist also has a trade in fake relics. While \"The Black Adder\" satirises the supposedly unquestioning credulity of the Mediaeval Christian, Lewis suggests that Chaucer's story, by offering a satirical commentary on the relic trade, shows that the teachings of the Church were open to question and ridicule even in the 14th Century.\n\nIn the 2008 documentary \"Blackadder Rides Again\", Richard Curtis and Tony Robinson both mention the relics scene as a particular highlight. Curtis was generally critical of the first series, stating that while comedy writers hone their craft first by writing sketches and then progress to writing situation comedy, the most successful parts of \"The Black Adder\" were in essence just sketches. He points to Baldrick's scene with the holy relics as an example of one of those sequences – entertaining, but ultimately self-contained. Robinson felt that, because he, Rowan Atkinson and Tim McInnerny had just begun to work together, this scene was the first time that the three of them truly \"gelled\" as an ensemble of performers.\n\nThe closing credits of this episode list the cast members \"in order of reverence\".\n\n\"Important characters are in bold.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42877824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42877824", "title": "Water bull", "text": "Water bull\n\nThe water bull, also known as tarbh uisge in Scottish Gaelic, is a mythological Scottish creature similar to the Manx \"tarroo ushtey\". Generally regarded as a nocturnal resident of moorland lochs, it is usually more amiable than its equine counterpart the water horse, but has similar amphibious and shapeshifting abilities.\n\nThe water bull is said to reproduce with standard cattle, the resulting progeny distinguishable by the small size of their ears. According to some myths, the calves of water bulls and ordinary cows ought to be killed at birth by any method other than drowning – they cannot be killed by drowning – to avoid bringing disaster to the herd. Conversely, in northern areas the calves are considered to be of superior quality.\n\nLexicographer Edward Dwelly translates \"tarbh-uisge\" from the Scottish Gaelic as \"water bull, sea bull or cow\" with the addition of \"fabulous\" within parentheses. The Celtic term for a bull is fairly consistently rendered as \"tarbh\" in Scottish Gaelic; \"tarroo\" is the Manx variation and \"tarw\" is the Welsh equivalent. \"Uisge\" is the Scottish Gaelic word for water, river or stream.\n\nBelief in the existence of water bulls persisted in Scotland until at least the last quarter of the 19th century. As with many mythological creatures, descriptions are imprecise. The water bull is able to shapeshift into human form, and live on land or in water. It can be a monstrous, malevolent black beast, especially when described as a \"tarbh uisge\", but not as nasty as the \"each uisge\" or water horse. It can also be amiable and sometimes helpful. It differs from the Manx \"tarroo ushtey\", which is more likely to be a resident of marshland.\n\nAs in the case of kelpies and water horses, most myths about water bulls are about males of the species. Occasionally a water cow is mentioned, as in the Highland tale set at Borrodale on Skye, where a water cow was reputed to reside in a small loch. Canine carcases left out to trap the beast were ignored. Sir Walter Scott also refers to a water cow in a story about an attempt to drain Loch na Beiste to kill one believed to be living there.\n\nThe Manx water bull mating with an ordinary cow usually results in the death of the cow after she produces a dead and \"rude lump of flesh and skin without bones\", whereas its Scottish counterpart produces live calves whose only deformity is apparent in their ears. The bulls have no ears themselves and therefore produce calves with only half ears, described by folklorist and Tiree Minister John Gregorson Campbell as \"knife-eared\". Water cows living at Leverburgh produce offspring with disfigured crimson or purple-coloured ears.\n\nFolklorist John F. Campbell noted a story told on Islay, one of the Inner Hebridean islands, which demonstrates the usefulness of having a water bull. Just after a calf was born to an ordinary cow, an elderly lady, later identified as a witch, advised the herdsman to keep it separate from the other cattle, presumably after she noticed its deformed ears and suspected it was a water bull. She instructed the herdsman to rear the calf on milk from three different cows and to keep it confined in a stable for a minimum of seven years. Years later, a young woman was grazing cattle at a nearby loch when she was approached by an attractive man. He struck up a conversation with her and shortly afterwards the pair sat on the grass with his head resting in her lap, but as he fell asleep she discovered seaweed entwined in his hair, a sign that he was a water horse. She started to run back to the farm. Her suitor awoke, shapeshifted into his true equine form and chased after her. As the woman ran towards the farm, the witch shouted to the herdsman to release the water bull from the stable. The two creatures fought until they fell into the sea. The water horse never returned, but the remains of the bull were found the following day.\n\nAccounts of snaring and destroying the beast are rare, as it is not generally considered to be a threat. In 1819 John MacCulloch, a noted geologist, described how inhabitants around the areas of Loch Awe and Loch Rannoch tried to capture a water bull by shackling a sheep to an oak tree as an enticement, but the tackle was not strong enough. Another story describes a farmer and his two sons hunting a water bull. The farmer's musket was filled with silver sixpence coins as the beast can only be killed with silver.\n\nAccording to Celtic mythology scholar James MacKillop, because the calves of water bulls and ordinary cows might bring disaster to the herd, they are supposed to be killed at birth; it is impossible to kill them by drowning, so other methods have to be used. Conversely, stories published in 1937 by the clergyman George Sutherland suggest these hybrids are considered to be of superior quality to normal pedigree cattle in the far north of Scotland.\n\nThe bull appears to have had a sacred role in a number of Celtic cults. The animal was viewed positively by the Celts as an image of fertility and abundance; one tribe, the Taurini, even adopted the bull's name. It is unknown how it came to be associated with bodies of water in the form of the water bull, but historian and symbologist Charles Milton Smith has suggested that such mythological creatures might originate with the water spouts that can form over the surface of Scottish lochs, which can give the impression of a living form as they move across the water.\n\n"}
