{"id": "3089936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3089936", "title": "Arizona v. Fulminante", "text": "Arizona v. Fulminante\n\nArizona v. Fulminante, 499 U.S. 279 (1991), was a United States Supreme Court case clarifying the standard of review of a criminal defendant's allegedly coerced confession.\n\nIn 1982, Jeneane Michelle Hunt, the 11-year-old stepdaughter of Oreste Fulminante was murdered in Arizona. Later, Fulminante traveled to Florida and was incarcerated for an unrelated crime. While in prison, Fulminante met Anthony Sarivola, a fellow inmate, who was also a confidential informant for the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Sarivola offered Fulminante protection from \"tough treatment\" in prison in exchange for a confession to the murder of Fulminante's stepdaughter. Fulminante agreed, confessing to Sarivola that he murdered his stepdaughter. As a result, Fulminante was charged with the murder, and his confession to Sarivola was used against him at trial.\n\nThe trial court denied Fulminante's motion to suppress the confession on the basis that it was coerced because Fulminante might have been subject to violence in prison had he not confessed. Fulminante was convicted and was sentenced to death. He appealed to the Arizona Supreme Court, which held that the confession was indeed coerced. Reasoning that a harmless error analysis was inappropriate in the case of involuntary confessions, the court ordered a new trial.\n\nIn an unusual occasion where two Justices each produced a partial majority opinion, the Court affirmed the Arizona Supreme Court's conclusion that the threat of violence aimed at Fulminante was credible enough to establish a finding of coercion, upholding the reversal of Fulminante's conviction. The Court held that a harmless error analysis should be applied to any allegedly coerced confession; here, the Court found that a new trial was warranted.\n\nJustice White authored an opinion, of which Parts I, II and IV constituted a majority of the Court. Justice White found that the lower court had properly applied the \"totality of the circumstances\" test in the coercion context as in \"Schneckloth v. Bustamonte\" (1973) and, given that the other majority opinion of the Court had found that a coerced confession invokes harmless error analysis, that the state had not proven beyond a reasonable doubt that Fulminante's forced confession was harmless.\n\nChief Justice Rehnquist also delivered an opinion, of which Part II constituted a majority of the Court. Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote in this portion of his opinion that the harmless error rule adopted in \"Chapman v. California\" (1967) applied to coerced confessions, and reviewed other precedent in developing the rule.\n\nInterpretation of the \"Fulminante\" decision is a major plot element in the Law & Order episode \"Confession\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11678567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11678567", "title": "Autorité de la concurrence", "text": "Autorité de la concurrence\n\nThe Autorité de la concurrence () is France's national competition regulator. Its predecessor, the Competition Council was established in the 1950s. The Competition Authority is an independent administrative authority (AAI) French responsible for fight against anti-competitive practices and study the functioning of markets. It aims to ensure respect for the law linked \"to the defense of a sufficient market competition\" 1.\n\nAlthough it is not considered a court, it pronounced injunctions, makes decisions, and if necessary, imposes penalties, subject to appeal to the Court of Appeal of Paris and the Court of Cassation. It also issues opinions.\n\nThe main sources of law of its action are the Commercial Code (Book IV) and Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Its headquarters are in Paris, at 11 Rue de l'Echelle (some services such as the concentrations or the economy are at 6 avenue de l'Opéra)\n\nCreated by a decree of 9 August 1953 in the form of a commission attached to the Minister for the Economy, the Competition Council, as its name officially by the order of December 1, 1986 has become, since January 13, 2009 and according to the law of 4 August 2008 on modernization of the economy, the Competition Authority. His powers have been gradually extended, including the law of 15 March 2001 on new economic regulations (NRE Act) to meet the control objective of the proper competitive functioning of the market.\n\nIn the early 1950s, in an economic context and directed nationalized since the Great Depression , as well as agreements with professional way since the Second World War with the Vichy regime and the German planning of the French economy the government attention focuses on anti-competitive practices. The persistence of corporatist practices, after the Vichy regime, helping to change the vision of the government on the effects of horizontal agreements between competitors .\n\nThe government decided to take measures against price fixing , down the price system set by the administration since Ordinance No. 45-1483 of 30 June 1945 adopted in the aftermath of the war. Thus, Law No 52-835 of 18 July 1952 enriches the list of anti-competitive practices in the order of 30 June 1945.\n\nIn 1953, both Houses of Parliament tear around the passage of a law establishing the status of cartels. In January 1950, a bill introduced by Henri Teitgen is the establishment of a specialized court for review of agreements to curb unlawful agreements but to allow those deemed consistent with the public interest . Other projects submitted tend to amend Articles 419 and 420 of the penal code to punish agreements. Asked for an opinion, to inform parliamentary debates 5, the Economic Council (forerunner of the present EESC) rejects the draft Henri Teitgen, due to the exorbitant powers of its specialized jurisdiction of the project and in the absence of judicial redress against its decisions.\n\nThe resistance of both Houses encourages the government to override opposition parliamentarians : Article 7 of the Framework Law No. 53-611 of 11 July 1953 empowers the government to take measures \"to maintain or restore a free industrial and commercial competition\" 6 , according to the practice of decree laws in force under the Fourth Republic. The French legislation also seemed upset with the Havana Charter.\n\nAs part of the policy of \"economic and financial recovery\" conducted by the Government of Joseph Laniel, was adopted on the basis of the aforementioned law decree No. 53-704 of 9 August 1953, to \"put an end to practices that by restricting fair trade competition, oppose any price drop\" 7. The decree establishes the principle of \"\"prohibition of all practices that thwart the full exercise of competition by opposing the lowering of cost prices or selling prices\".\" This Order amends the order of 30 June 1945 which established a price system directed to curb high inflation.\n\nTo punish these offenses, is created a technical commission agreements, composed of members of the State Council, judges of the Supreme Court and the Court of Auditors , as well as qualified persons, attached to the Minister of economy. This committee is responsible for examining possible violations of rules prohibiting cartels, and appreciates the possible justifications that were made to them. Entering either the ordinary courts or by the Minister of Economy, the Technical Commission of the agreements provides an opinion to the minister who has the exclusive power to transmit or not the case to the prosecutor or impose fines. The technical commission agreements is then an external expert body with the aim to inform decisions of the Minister for the Economy 9.\n\nThe decree, adopted on the report of Edgar Faure, stems from an initiative of the Director of prices, Louis Franck, who obtained the Secretary of State for Trade introducing a device to fight against cartels, while the attention of the latter is rather addressed the discriminatory practices and price fixing .\n\nThe inaugural session of the Technical Commission of the agreements was held on April 9, 1954, but it was not until 23 April 1955 that really began consideration by the board, business submitted to it for review .\n\nLaw n ° 63-628 of 2 July 1963 supplementary budget for 1963 extends the jurisdiction of the Technical Commission of the agreements with the dominant positions of practices characterized by \"a monopoly or a manifest concentration of economic power, when these activities the object or may have the effect of impeding the normal operation of the market \" (Article 3) 10 .\n\nFollowing the first oil crisis in 1973, which deeply undermines the planning approach adopted in France since the Liberation, the second government of Raymond Barre progressively reduced price controls. Several laws will strengthen the framework of the French competition law.\n\nLaw n ° 77-806 of 19 July 1977 creates the Competition Commission, and extends its jurisdiction on two points. Henceforth, the Competition Commission knows in an advisory capacity to \"all questions concerning competition referred to it by the Government\", and advises on transactions or projects of concentration. In an Assembly decision of 13 March 1981, the Council of State denied him the jurisdiction of qualifying, but the class as \"administrative agency\". Subsequently, Law No. 85-1408 of 30 December 1985 on improving competition qualifies for the first time the Commission of \" \"independent administrative authority\"\".\n\nFollowing the political change of 1986, resulting in the first cohabitation, Ordinance No. 86-1243 of December 1, 1986 repeals the provisions of the Ordinance of 30 June 1945 which established an administrative price control. Now prices are \"freely determined by competition\". The ordinance establishes the Competition Council consisting of sixteen members, appointed for a term of six years on a proposal of the Minister of Economy.\n\nThe Competition Council now has its own power of decision and sanctions on anticompetitive practices, although the power of decision in economic concentrations still held by the Minister of Economy, the Competition Council did in this case an advisory role.\n\nThe ordinance introduced other important innovations, namely enlargement, especially to businesses, Council referral opportunities, transferring the sanctioning power of the Minister Council in the economy, together with a control of the judicial court and a better procedure guaranteeing the rights of interested parties.\n\nThe law ratifying the order of December 1, 1986 provided for the transfer of contentious decisions of the Competition Council to the judicial judge, notwithstanding the traditional jurisprudential criteria that would have involved the jurisdiction of administrative courts.Seized under its constitutional review, the Constitutional Council clears the fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic that \"with the exception of matters reserved by nature to the judiciary, is ultimately the responsibility of the administrative court the annulment or alteration of decisions taken in the exercise of public powers by the authorities exercising executive power, agents, local authorities of the Republic or public bodies under their authority or control\" (decision No. 86-224 DC of 23 January 1987).\n\nFrom 1986, the Competition Council sees its gradually extended powers. Law No. 92-1282 of 11 December 1992 empowers the Council to do under Articles 85 to 87 of the Treaty of Rome, which include prohibitions of dominant positions and agreements 17. Law\"Galland\" of 1 July 1996 expands the adjudicatory functions of the Competition Council to predatory pricing 18.\n\nThe law \"New Economic Regulations\" (called \"NRE\") of 15 May 2001 introduced numerous procedural innovations for the benefit of the Competition Council: the latter may enter into transactions with sanctioned companies, or make use of leniency procedures 19.\n\nThe law 2003-706 of August 1, 2003 of Financial Security integrates the control of bank mergers in the common competition law, by giving the Minister of Economy and when asked for an opinion to the Council competition, the authority to deal with competition problems that would arise for bank mergers 20 .\n\nThe law modernizing the economy of 4 August 2008 transfer to the new Competition Authority all the old powers of the Competition Council, by adding new skills. Some of these changes were advocated by the Attali Commission and by the OECD, in that they were intended to enhance efficiency in competitive market regulation 21.\n\nOne of the great innovations of the law modernizing the economy of 4 August 2008 (Article 96) is to transfer to the new Competition Authority, established as an independent administrative authority, control of concentrations 22. This reform helps to bring the French model of regulation of competition from that in force in other states in Europe, entrusting to an independent authority specialized control of these operations 23.\n\nNow, subject to criteria related to turnover of the undertakings concerned (which would result if any competence of the European Commission), the Competition Authority is the competent authority of common law in this area. The Minister of Economy may, however, once the decision of the Commission made, discuss and approve the transaction in question for \"reasons of general interest other than maintaining competition\" into such industrial development, the competitiveness of enterprises in question in the light of international competition or the creation or maintenance of employment 24.\n\nThe LME Act allows the Competition Authority on its own initiative in opinion on any competition issue and make recommendations to improve the market competition to the Minister responsible for the sector 25. The opinion of the Authority are usually very noticeable, especially one made in September 2014 on concessions highway 26, 27, 28.\n\nThe President of the Competition Authority is appointed for a term of five years by decree on the report of the Minister of Economy. The chairman is appointed \"because of its expertise in the legal and economic fields\" 29. However, since 1963, all presidents of the administrative authority were state councilors.\n\nThe current president of the Authority Bruno Lasserre, state councilor and vice-presidents are Claire Favre, Elisabeth Flüry-Herard, Emmanuel Combe and Thierry Dahan 30.\nThe Competition Authority is composed of a college of 17 members, 41 appointed by decree on report of the Minister of Economy, for a period of five years (renewable term):\nWithin the council, there is a standing committee composed of the president and four vice presidents.\n\nThe Minister of Economy called:\nThe other rapporteurs, who will present the case and the case to the Competition Authority, appointed by the General Rapporteur.\n\nThe competition law applies \"to all production, distribution and services, including those that are made public persons, particularly in the context of public service delegation agreements\", according to Article L. 410-1 of the commercial code. Article L. 461-1 of the Code provides that the Competition Authority \"ensures free competition.\" As such, the Competition Authority has several skills.\n\nThe Competition Authority is mainly responsible for repressing anti-competitive business practices, including agreements and abuse of dominant position .\n\nIt may impose two sanctions:\n\nSeveral people can enter the Competition Authority.\n\nHistorically, only the Minister of the economy, companies and local authorities, professional organizations and trade unions, approved consumer organizations, and chambers of commerce and industry for the interest they charge could grasp the Authority, outside of its self-referral option. Law n ° 2012-1270 of 20 November 2012 on economic regulation overseas are added regions and communities overseas with special status.\n\nSection 11 of the Ordinance of 1 December 1986 provided for the right to self-referral to the Competition Authority, transposed provision in Article L. 462-5 of the Commercial Code. This ability to self-referral has been criticized many times, because of potential damage to the impartiality of the Authority.\n\nIn a first decision \"Company Canal Plus Group and Vivendi Universal\" issued October 12, 2012 (Decision No. 2012-280 QPC), the Constitutional Council , however, felt that the right to self-referral to the Competition Authority proposed by its General rapporteur, \"not [led] the authority not to prejudge the reality of breaches examine\" and considered the article in question complies with the Constitution 42 .\n\nIn a second decision \"Grands Moulins de Strasbourg SA Companies\" rendered October 14, 2015 (Decision No. 2015-489 QPC), the Constitutional Council ruled that the decision of the Competition Authority self-grabs, \"decision which the Council exercises its supervisory role of well functioning markets, has neither the purpose nor the effect of a practice charge with a particular undertaking \" ; therefore, it does not lead to prejudge actual practices that may give rise to sanctions pronounced 43 .\n\nIn case of finding of an anti competitive practice, the Competition Authority may order offenders terminate or impose special conditions and, where appropriate, impose a financial penalty applicable either immediately or in the event of breach of injunctions or in case of non-compliance with commitments accepted 44 .\n\nIf the offender is not a business, the maximum amount of the penalty is three million. The maximum amount of the penalty is for a company 10% of the worldwide turnover before tax achieved the highest during one of the years ended since the year preceding that in which the practices were implemented.\n\nIn a ruling \"Association Accountant Media Association\" issued January 7, 2016 (Decision No. 2015-510 QPC), the Constitutional Council considers that by providing maximum financial penalty in absolute value when the person who committed the offense is not a business, then this maximum is set as a percentage of revenue when that person is a company, the legislator has introduced a difference of treatment directly related to the object of the law establishing it, and that he referred to specific legal categories for determining the penalty with sufficient certainty. In doing so, the Constitutional Court dismisses the grievance ignorance of equality and principle of legality of criminal offenses and penalties 45.\n\nMoreover, the Competition Authority may decide that the decision, in full or in excerpt will be published, distributed or displayed, the cost then being borne by the person concerned.\n\nThe Competition Authority also plays an advisory role. As such, it must be consulted before any regulatory price. It can also be consulted on all matters of competition, especially when monitoring concentrations.\n\nThe entry into force on 1 January 2004 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 of 16 December 2002 made it mandatory for the authorities regulating competition in the member states of the European Union , the application of Community competition rules. National competition authorities (NCAs) when they apply national law on cartels and dominant positions must also apply EU competition law to practices that are \"likely to affect trade between Member States.\"\n\nRegulation of 16 December 2002 is decentralizing the application of competition law in order to increase its effectiveness. This is to allow the European Commission to focus on large-scale operations, and use the capacities of national competition authorities, often better placed to hear an anti-competitive practice.\n\nIn addition, the settlement ends the exemption monopoly held by the European Commission: now, the national competition authorities may make pursuant to Article 101 paragraph 3 of the Treaty of Rome to exempt contribution agreements to economic progress.\n\nRegulation 1/2003 of 16 December 2002 sets up a European Competition Network (ECN), led by the European Commission, and for the optimal application of Community competition law.\n\nIn 2014, the budget of the Competition Authority amounted to €20.7 million, including 16.2 million for staff costs and EUR 4.5 million for operating expenses 46 .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30865703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30865703", "title": "Bar Professional Training Course", "text": "Bar Professional Training Course\n\nThe Bar Professional Training Course or BPTC (previously known as Bar Vocational Course, or BVC) is a postgraduate course which allows law graduates to be named and practise as barristers in England and Wales. The thirteen institutes that run the BPTC along with the four prestigious Inns of Court are often collectively referred to as \"Bar School\".\n\nThe BPTC is currently the most expensive legal course in Europe. For the 2016-17 year, some of the London's colleges fees might exceed £20,000.\n\nThis academic stage is the first of the three stages of legal education, the second being the vocational stage (the BPTC) and the third being the practical stage (pupillage). On successful completion of the vocational stage, which also involves completing twelve qualifying sessions, students are called to the Bar; however, only those who have successfully completed pupillage can work as barristers.\n\nIn addition to passing the Bar Course Aptitude Test (BCAT), the minimum entry requirements for the BPTC is qualifying a Bachelor of Laws with no less than lower second-class (2:2) honours or a non-law academic degree with lower second-class (2:2) honours alongside the Graduate Diploma in Law. Additionally students from outside English speaking countries are required to demonstrate their oral and written English language ability is at least equivalent to a minimum score of 7.5 in each section of the IELTS academic test or a minimum score of 73 in each part of the Pearson Test of English (academic).\n\nBesides, applicants for the BPTC should also demonstrate excellent extracurricular activities. A suitable candidate has to provide strong evidence of a commitment to the English Bar. It is important for a candidate to have Common law, European law, Civil law and Criminal law reasoning as subjects during their course of studies as LLB students.\n\nIn April 2015, Chair of the Bar Council Alastair Macdonald raised concerns about the financial risk involved in taking the BPTC, claiming that \"There are too many people spending too much money in order to train [. . .] with no realistic prospect of being able to make a start in the profession. In the same month, a report commissioned by the Bar Council heavily criticised BPTC providers. The report suggested that course providers were \"using the system to make money from people with no realistic prospect of pupillage,\" and claimed that the course was \"not highly regarded by practitioners.\" The report suggested increasing standards for the course, and introducing a new test to replace the BCAT, which currently has a 98% pass rate, though there are plans to increase the pass mark. Jeremy Robson, a senior lecturer at Nottingham Law School, denied these claims. He noted that all prospective students receive a health warning noting the low number of pupillages compared to course places, and that the practitioners consulted in the working group were \"drawn from a small section of the profession.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6003690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6003690", "title": "Bencher", "text": "Bencher\n\nA bencher or Master of the Bench is a senior member of an Inn of Court in England and Wales and Ireland. Benchers hold office for life once elected. A bencher can be elected while still a barrister (usually, but not always, Queen's Counsel), in recognition of the contribution that the barrister has made to the life of the Inn or to the law. Others become benchers as a matter of course when appointed as a High Court judge. The Inn may elect non-members as honorary benchers – for example, distinguished judges and lawyers from other countries, eminent non-lawyers or members of the British Royal Family, who become known as \"Royal Benchers\" once elected.\n\nOne member of each Inn is the Treasurer, a position which is held for one year only. While succession to the post of Treasurer was once dependent purely on seniority, this is no longer the case. The Treasurer is now elected.\n\nHistorically, the most junior student barristers were only permitted to watch moot court trials and stood within the bar of the moot courtroom. More qualified barristers (known as \"outer\" or \"utter\" barristers) were permitted to join the argument and stood outside the bar. The most senior barristers were permitted to sit on the bench at moots. This third class of barristers became known as \"Benchers\" or \"Masters of the Bench\".\n\nThe practices and regulations vary from Inn to Inn, but the benchers are the ultimate governing body of the relevant Inn. The benchers govern the finances of the Inn, and they alone have the authority to admit students, to call students to the Bar, and to elect other benchers. Today, the benchers of the four Inns have common standards agreed with the Bar Council. They have the formal power to discipline members of their Inn by suspending or expelling them from membership of the Inn, and by disbarring them. Disciplinary functions are now shared with the Council of the Inns of Court, the Bar Standards Board and its Complaints Committee (formerly known as the Professional Conduct and Complaints Committee).\n\nThe terms \"bencher\" and \"treasurer\" are in use by the legal profession in Canada. A bencher in the Canadian context is a member of the board of directors of a provincial law society. Most benchers are lawyers, but in some provinces there are also lay benchers who represent the public interest.\nIn some provinces the head of the board is known as the \"treasurer\". Paralegals are also elected as benchers, in those provinces where law societies govern their profession.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53453759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53453759", "title": "Betsy Riot", "text": "Betsy Riot\n\nThe Betsy Riot is a radical left group that describes itself as a \"decentralized neo-suffragette, punk-patriot resistance movement.\" They are pro-gun control. The group began in August 2016, primarily with an anti-gun industry focus, but since the 2016 presidential election, has broadened its focus to protest Trump administration policies. The group uses profanity, satire and a radical feminist posture in its messaging, with tactics that include graffiti, theatrical protests, pranks, and coordinated messaging actions, such as mailings, banners, and flyers. The group has also encouraged petty vandalism to further their agenda.\n\nAs part of an ongoing demonstration against gun rights advocates, Betsy Riot purchased http://johnlott.com/ (John Lott) and https://waynelapierre.com/ (Wayne LaPierre) and runs them as parody sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "13131229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13131229", "title": "Bicycle Accident Reconstruction and Litigation", "text": "Bicycle Accident Reconstruction and Litigation\n\nBicycle Accident Reconstruction and Litigation is a bicycle law treatise on the engineering and legal aspects of bicycle accidents, directed at engineers and attorneys handling bicycle accident cases. Thus, its scope is confined to the highly technical engineering and legal issues specific to bicycle accidents. However, while its scope within the field of bicycle law is limited, and is thus of limited use as a general treatise on bicycle law, it serves as an invaluable guide to the professional practitioner handling a bicycle accident case.\n\n\"Bicycle Accident Reconstruction and Litigation\", by James M. Green, Paul F. Hill, and Douglas Hayduk (Tucson, Arizona: Lawyers & Judges Publishing Co., 1996) \n"}
{"id": "4822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4822", "title": "Board of directors", "text": "Board of directors\n\nA board of directors is a recognized group of people who jointly oversee the activities of an organization, which can be either a for-profit business, nonprofit organization, or a government agency. Such a board's powers, duties, and responsibilities are determined by government regulations (including the jurisdiction's corporations law) and the organization's own constitution and bylaws. These authorities may specify the number of members of the board, how they are to be chosen, and how often they are to meet.\n\nIn an organization with voting members, the board is accountable to, and might be subordinate to, the organization's full membership, which usually vote for the members of the board. In a stock corporation, non-executive directors are voted for by the shareholders and the board is the highest authority in the management of the corporation. The board of directors appoints the chief executive officer of the corporation and sets out the overall strategic direction. In corporations with dispersed ownership, the identification and nomination of directors (that shareholders vote for or against) are often done by the board itself, leading to a high degree of self-perpetuation. In a non-stock corporation with no general voting membership, the board is the supreme governing body of the institution; its members are sometimes chosen by the board itself.\n\nOther names include board of directors and advisors, board of governors, board of managers, board of regents, board of trustees, or board of visitors. It may also be called \"the executive board\" and is often simply referred to as \"the board\".\n\nTypical duties of boards of directors include:\n\nThe legal responsibilities of boards and board members vary with the nature of the organization, and between jurisdictions. For companies with publicly trading stock, these responsibilities are typically much more rigorous and complex than for those of other types.\n\nTypically, the board chooses one of its members to be the \"chairman\" (often now called the \"chair\" or \"chairperson\"), who holds whatever title is specified in the by-laws or articles of association. However, in membership organizations, the members elect the president of the organization and the president becomes the board chair, unless the by-laws say otherwise.\n\nThe directors of an organization are the persons who are members of its board. Several specific terms categorize directors by the presence or absence of their other relationships to the organization.\n\nAn inside director is a director who is also an employee, officer, chief executive, major shareholder, or someone similarly connected to the organization. Inside directors represent the interests of the entity's stakeholders, and often have special knowledge of its inner workings, its financial or market position, and so on.\n\nTypical inside directors are:\n\nAn inside director who is employed as a manager or executive of the organization is sometimes referred to as an executive director (not to be confused with the title executive director sometimes used for the CEO position in some organizations). Executive directors often have a specified area of responsibility in the organization, such as finance, marketing, human resources, or production.\n\nAn outside director is a member of the board who is not otherwise employed by or engaged with the organization, and does not represent any of its stakeholders. A typical example is a director who is president of a firm in a different industry. Outside directors are not employees of the company or affiliated with it in any other way.\n\nOutside directors bring outside experience and perspectives to the board. For example, for a company that only serves a domestic market, the presence of CEOs from global multinational corporations as outside directors can help to provide insights on export and import opportunities and international trade options. One of the arguments for having outside directors is that they can keep a watchful eye on the inside directors and on the way the organization is run. Outside directors are unlikely to tolerate \"insider dealing\" between insider directors, as outside directors do not benefit from the company or organization. Outside directors are often useful in handling disputes between inside directors, or between shareholders and the board. They are thought to be advantageous because they can be objective and present little risk of conflict of interest. On the other hand, they might lack familiarity with the specific issues connected to the organization's governance and they might not know about the industry or sector in which the organization is operating.\n\n\nIndividual directors often serve on more than one board. This practice results in an interlocking directorate, where a relatively small number of individuals have significant influence over a large number of important entities. This situation can have important corporate, social, economic, and legal consequences, and has been the subject of significant research.\n\nThe process for running a board, sometimes called the board process, includes the selection of board members, the setting of clear board objectives, the dissemination of documents or board package to the board members, the collaborative creation of an agenda for the meeting, the creation and follow-up of assigned action items, and the assessment of the board process through standardized assessments of board members, owners, and CEOs. The science of this process has been slow to develop due to the secretive nature of the way most companies run their boards, however some standardization is beginning to develop. Some who are pushing for this standardization in the USA are the National Association of Corporate Directors, McKinsey Consulting and The Board Group.\n\nA board of directors conducts its meetings according to the rules and procedures contained in its governing documents. These procedures may allow the board to conduct its business by conference call or other electronic means. They may also specify how a quorum is to be determined.\n\nMost organizations have adopted \"Robert's Rules of Order\" as its guide to supplement its own rules. In this book, the rules for conducting board meetings may be less formal if there is no more than about a dozen board members present. An example of the informality is that motions are not required if it's clear what is being discussed.\n\nHistorically, nonprofit boards have not uncommonly had large boards with up to twenty-four members, but a modern trend is to have smaller boards as small as six or seven people. Studies suggest that after seven people, each additional person reduces the effectiveness of group decision-making.\n\nThe role and responsibilities of a board of directors vary depending on the nature and type of business entity and the laws applying to the entity (see types of business entity). For example, the nature of the business entity may be one that is traded on a public market (public company), not traded on a public market (a private, limited or closely held company), owned by family members (a family business), or exempt from income taxes (a non-profit, not for profit, or tax-exempt entity). There are numerous types of business entities available throughout the world such as a corporation, limited liability company, cooperative, business trust, partnership, private limited company, and public limited company.\n\nMuch of what has been written about boards of directors relates to boards of directors of business entities actively traded on public markets. More recently, however, material is becoming available for boards of private and closely held businesses including family businesses.\n\nA board-only organization is one whose board is self-appointed, rather than being accountable to a base of members through elections; or in which the powers of the membership are extremely limited.\n\nIn membership organizations, such as a society made up of members of a certain profession or one advocating a certain cause, a board of directors may have the responsibility of running the organization in between meetings of the membership, especially if the membership meets infrequently, such as only at an annual general meeting. The amount of powers and authority delegated to the board depend on the bylaws and rules of the particular organization. Some organizations place matters exclusively in the board's control while in others, the general membership retains full power and the board can only make recommendations.\n\nThe setup of a board of directors vary widely across organizations and may include provisions that are applicable to corporations, in which the \"shareholders\" are the members of the organization. A difference may be that the membership elects the officers of the organization, such as the president and the secretary, and the officers become members of the board in addition to the directors and retain those duties on the board. The directors may also be classified as officers in this situation. There may also be ex-officio members of the board, or persons who are members due to another position that they hold. These ex-officio members have all the same rights as the other board members.\n\nMembers of the board may be removed before their term is complete. Details on how they can be removed are usually provided in the bylaws. If the bylaws do not contain such details, the section on disciplinary procedures in \"Robert's Rules of Order\" may be used.\n\nIn a publicly held company, directors are elected to represent and are legally obligated as fiduciaries to represent owners of the company—the shareholders/stockholders. In this capacity they establish policies and make decisions on issues such as whether there is dividend and how much it is, stock options distributed to employees, and the hiring/firing and compensation of upper management.\n\nTheoretically, the control of a company is divided between two bodies: the board of directors, and the shareholders in general meeting. In practice, the amount of power exercised by the board varies with the type of company. In small private companies, the directors and the shareholders are normally the same people, and thus there is no real division of power. In large public companies, the board tends to exercise more of a supervisory role, and individual responsibility and management tends to be delegated downward to individual professional executives (such as a finance director or a marketing director) who deal with particular areas of the company's affairs.\n\nAnother feature of boards of directors in large public companies is that the board tends to have more \"de facto\" power. Many shareholders grant proxies to the directors to vote their shares at general meetings and accept all recommendations of the board rather than try to get involved in management, since each shareholder's power, as well as interest and information is so small. Larger institutional investors also grant the board proxies. The large number of shareholders also makes it hard for them to organize. However, there have been moves recently to try to increase shareholder activism among both institutional investors and individuals with small shareholdings.\n\nA contrasting view is that in large public companies it is upper management and not boards that wield practical power, because boards delegate nearly all of their power to the top executive employees, adopting their recommendations almost without fail. As a practical matter, executives even choose the directors, with shareholders normally following management recommendations and voting for them.\n\nIn most cases, serving on a board is not a career unto itself. For major corporations, the board members are usually professionals or leaders in their field. In the case of outside directors, they are often senior leaders of other organizations. Nevertheless, board members often receive remunerations amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars per year since they often sit on the boards of several companies. Inside directors are usually not paid for sitting on a board, but the duty is instead considered part of their larger job description. Outside directors are usually paid for their services. These remunerations vary between corporations, but usually consist of a yearly or monthly salary, additional compensation for each meeting attended, stock options, and various other benefits. such as travel, hotel and meal expenses for the board meetings. Tiffany & Co., for example, pays directors an annual retainer of $46,500, an additional annual retainer of $2,500 if the director is also a chairperson of a committee, a per-meeting-attended fee of $2,000 for meetings attended in person, a $500 fee for each meeting attended via telephone, in addition to stock options and retirement benefits.\n\nIn some European and Asian countries, there are two separate boards, an executive board for day-to-day business and a supervisory board (elected by the shareholders and employees) for supervising the executive board. In these countries, the CEO (chief executive or managing director) presides over the executive board and the chairman presides over the supervisory board, and these two roles will always be held by different people. This ensures a distinction between management by the executive board and governance by the supervisory board and allows for clear lines of authority. The aim is to prevent a conflict of interest and too much power being concentrated in the hands of one person. There is a strong parallel here with the structure of government, which tends to separate the political cabinet from the management civil service. In the United States, the board of directors (elected by the shareholders) is often equivalent to the supervisory board, while the executive board may often be known as the executive committee (operating committee or executive council), composed of the CEO and their direct reports (other C-level officers, division/subsidiary heads).\n\nThe development of a separate board of directors to manage/govern/oversee a company has occurred incrementally and indefinitely over legal history. Until the end of the 19th century, it seems to have been generally assumed that the general meeting (of all shareholders) was the supreme organ of a company, and that the board of directors merely acted as an agent of the company subject to the control of the shareholders in general meeting.\n\nHowever, by 1906, the English Court of Appeal had made it clear in the decision of \"Automatic Self-Cleansing Filter Syndicate Co Ltd v Cuninghame\" [1906] 2 Ch 34 that the division of powers between the board and the shareholders in general meaning depended on the construction of the articles of association and that, where the powers of management were vested in the board, the general meeting could not interfere with their lawful exercise. The articles were held to constitute a contract by which the members had agreed that \"the directors and the directors alone shall manage.\"\n\nThe new approach did not secure immediate approval, but it was endorsed by the House of Lords in \"Quin & Axtens v Salmon\" [1909] AC 442 and has since received general acceptance. Under English law, successive versions of Table A have reinforced the norm that, unless the directors are acting contrary to the law or the provisions of the Articles, the powers of conducting the management and affairs of the company are vested in them.\n\nThe modern doctrine was expressed in \"John Shaw & Sons (Salford) Ltd v Shaw\" [1935] 2 KB 113 by Greer LJ as follows:\n\nA company is an entity distinct alike from its shareholders and its directors. Some of its powers may, according to its articles, be exercised by directors, certain other powers may be reserved for the shareholders in general meeting. If powers of management are vested in the directors, they and they alone can exercise these powers. The only way in which the general body of shareholders can control the exercise of powers by the articles in the directors is by altering the articles, or, if opportunity arises under the articles, by refusing to re-elect the directors of whose actions they disapprove. They cannot themselves usurp the powers which by the articles are vested in the directors any more than the directors can usurp the powers vested by the articles in the general body of shareholders.\nIt has been remarked that this development in the law was somewhat surprising at the time, as the relevant provisions in Table A (as it was then) seemed to contradict this approach rather than to endorse it.\n\nIn most legal systems, the appointment and removal of directors is voted upon by the shareholders in general meeting or through a proxy statement. For publicly traded companies in the U.S., the directors which are available to vote on are largely selected by either the board as a whole or a nominating committee. Although in 2002 the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ required that nominating committees consist of independent directors as a condition of listing, nomination committees have historically received input from management in their selections even when the CEO does not have a position on the board. Shareholder nominations can only occur at the general meeting itself or through the prohibitively expensive process of mailing out ballots separately; in May 2009 the SEC proposed a new rule allowing shareholders meeting certain criteria to add nominees to the proxy statement. In practice for publicly traded companies, the managers (inside directors) who are purportedly accountable to the board of directors have historically played a major role in selecting and nominating the directors who are voted on by the shareholders, in which case more \"gray outsider directors\" (independent directors with conflicts of interest) are nominated and elected.\n\nDirectors may also leave office by resignation or death. In some legal systems, directors may also be removed by a resolution of the remaining directors (in some countries they may only do so \"with cause\"; in others the power is unrestricted).\n\nSome jurisdictions also permit the board of directors to appoint directors, either to fill a vacancy which arises on resignation or death, or as an addition to the existing directors.\n\nIn practice, it can be quite difficult to remove a director by a resolution in general meeting. In many legal systems, the director has a right to receive special notice of any resolution to remove him or her; the company must often supply a copy of the proposal to the director, who is usually entitled to be heard by the meeting. The director may require the company to circulate any representations that he wishes to make. Furthermore, the director's contract of service will usually entitle him to compensation if he is removed, and may often include a generous \"golden parachute\" which also acts as a deterrent to removal.\n\nA recent study examines how corporate shareholders voted in director elections in the United States. It found that directors received fewer votes from shareholders when their companies performed poorly, had excess CEO compensation, or had poor shareholder protection. Also, directors received fewer votes when they did not regularly attend board meetings or received negative recommendations from a proxy advisory firm. The study also shows that companies often improve their corporate governance by removing poison pills or classified boards and by reducing excessive CEO pay after their directors receive low shareholder support.\n\nBoard accountability to shareholders is a recurring issue. In 2010, the \"New York Times\" noted that several directors who had overseen companies which had failed in the financial crisis of 2007–2010 had found new positions as directors. The SEC sometimes imposes a ban (a \"D&O bar\") on serving on a board as part of its fraud cases, and one of these was upheld in 2013.\n\nThe exercise by the board of directors of its powers usually occurs in board meetings. Most legal systems require sufficient notice to be given to all directors of these meetings, and that a quorum must be present before any business may be conducted. Usually, a meeting which is held without notice having been given is still valid if all of the directors attend, but it has been held that a failure to give notice may negate resolutions passed at a meeting, because the persuasive oratory of a minority of directors might have persuaded the majority to change their minds and vote otherwise.\n\nIn most common law countries, the powers of the board are vested in the board as a whole, and not in the individual directors. However, in instances an individual director may still bind the company by his acts by virtue of his ostensible authority (see also: the rule in \"Turquand's Case\").\n\nBecause directors exercise control and management over the organization, but organizations are (in theory) run for the benefit of the shareholders, the law imposes strict duties on directors in relation to the exercise of their duties. The duties imposed on directors are fiduciary duties, similar to those that the law imposes on those in similar positions of trust: agents and trustees.\n\nThe duties apply to each director separately, while the powers apply to the board jointly. Also, the duties are owed to the company itself, and not to any other entity. This does not mean that directors can never stand in a fiduciary relationship to the individual shareholders; they may well have such a duty in certain circumstances.\n\nDirectors must exercise their powers for a proper purpose. While in many instances an improper purpose is readily evident, such as a director looking to feather his or her own nest or divert an investment opportunity to a relative, such breaches usually involve a breach of the director's duty to act in good faith. Greater difficulties arise where the director, while acting in good faith, is serving a purpose that is not regarded by the law as proper.\n\nThe seminal authority in relation to what amounts to a proper purpose is the Supreme Court decision in Eclairs Group Ltd v JKX Oil & Gas plc (2015). The case concerned the powers of directors under the articles of association of the company to disenfranchise voting rights attached to shares for failure to properly comply with notice served on the shareholders. Prior to that case the leading authority was \"Howard Smith Ltd v Ampol Ltd\" [1974] AC 821. The case concerned the power of the directors to issue new shares. It was alleged that the directors had issued a large number of new shares purely to deprive a particular shareholder of his voting majority. An argument that the power to issue shares could only be properly exercised to raise new capital was rejected as too narrow, and it was held that it would be a proper exercise of the director's powers to issue shares to a larger company to ensure the financial stability of the company, or as part of an agreement to exploit mineral rights owned by the company. If so, the mere fact that an incidental result (even if it was a desired consequence) was that a shareholder lost his majority, or a takeover bid was defeated, this would not itself make the share issue improper. But if the sole purpose was to destroy a voting majority, or block a takeover bid, that would be an improper purpose.\n\nNot all jurisdictions recognised the \"proper purpose\" duty as separate from the \"good faith\" duty however.\n\nDirectors cannot, without the consent of the company, fetter their discretion in relation to the exercise of their powers, and cannot bind themselves to vote in a particular way at future board meetings. This is so even if there is no improper motive or purpose, and no personal advantage to the director.\n\nThis does not mean, however, that the board cannot agree to the company entering into a contract which binds the company to a certain course, even if certain actions in that course will require further board approval. The company remains bound, but the directors retain the discretion to vote against taking the future actions (although that may involve a breach by the company of the contract that the board previously approved).\n\nAs fiduciaries, the directors may not put themselves in a position where their interests and duties conflict with the duties that they owe to the company. The law takes the view that good faith must not only be done, but must be manifestly seen to be done, and zealously patrols the conduct of directors in this regard; and will not allow directors to escape liability by asserting that his decision was in fact well founded. Traditionally, the law has divided conflicts of duty and interest into three sub-categories.\n\nBy definition, where a director enters into a transaction with a company, there is a conflict between the director's interest (to do well for himself out of the transaction) and his duty to the company (to ensure that the company gets as much as it can out of the transaction). This rule is so strictly enforced that, even where the conflict of interest or conflict of duty is purely hypothetical, the directors can be forced to disgorge all personal gains arising from it. In \"Aberdeen Ry v Blaikie\" (1854) 1 Macq HL 461 Lord Cranworth stated in his judgment that:\n\nHowever, in many jurisdictions the members of the company are permitted to ratify transactions which would otherwise fall foul of this principle. It is also largely accepted in most jurisdictions that this principle can be overridden in the company's constitution.\n\nIn many countries, there is also a statutory duty to declare interests in relation to any transactions, and the director can be fined for failing to make disclosure.\n\nDirectors must not, without the informed consent of the company, use for their own profit the company's assets, opportunities, or information. This prohibition is much less flexible than the prohibition against the transactions with the company, and attempts to circumvent it using provisions in the articles have met with limited success.\n\nIn \"Regal (Hastings) Ltd v Gulliver\" [1942] All ER 378 the House of Lords, in upholding what was regarded as a wholly unmeritorious claim by the shareholders, held that:\n\nAnd accordingly, the directors were required to disgorge the profits that they made, and the shareholders received their windfall.\n\nThe decision has been followed in several subsequent cases, and is now regarded as settled law.\n\nDirectors cannot compete directly with the company without a conflict of interest arising. Similarly, they should not act as directors of competing companies, as their duties to each company would then conflict with each other.\n\nTraditionally, the level of care and skill which has to be demonstrated by a director has been framed largely with reference to the non-executive director. In \"Re City Equitable Fire Insurance Co\" [1925] Ch 407, it was expressed in purely subjective terms, where the court held that:\n\nHowever, this decision was based firmly in the older notions (see above) that prevailed at the time as to the mode of corporate decision making, and effective control residing in the shareholders; if they elected and put up with an incompetent decision maker, they should not have recourse to complain.\n\nHowever, a more modern approach has since developed, and in \"Dorchester Finance Co Ltd v Stebbing\" [1989] BCLC 498 the court held that the rule in \"Equitable Fire\" related only to skill, and not to diligence. With respect to diligence, what was required was:\n\nThis was a dual subjective and objective test, and one deliberately pitched at a higher level.\n\nMore recently, it has been suggested that both the tests of skill and diligence should be assessed objectively and subjectively; in the United Kingdom, the statutory provisions relating to directors' duties in the new Companies Act 2006 have been codified on this basis.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, the law provides for a variety of remedies in the event of a breach by the directors of their duties:\n\nHistorically, directors' duties have been owed almost exclusively to the company and its members, and the board was expected to exercise its powers for the financial benefit of the company. However, more recently there have been attempts to \"soften\" the position, and provide for more scope for directors to act as good corporate citizens. For example, in the United Kingdom, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors of companies \"to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole\" and sets out the following six factors regarding a director's duty to promote success:\n\nThis represents a considerable departure from the traditional notion that directors' duties are owed only to the company. Previously in the United Kingdom, under the Companies Act 1985, protections for non-member stakeholders were considerably more limited (see, for example, s.309 which permitted directors to take into account the interests of employees but which could only be enforced by the shareholders and not by the employees themselves). The changes have therefore been the subject of some criticism.\n\nMost companies have weak mechanisms for bringing the voice of society into the board room. They rely on personalities who weren't appointed for their understanding of societal issues. Often they give limited focus (both through time and financial resource) to issues of corporate responsibility and sustainability. A Social Board has society designed into its structure. It elevates the voice of society through specialist appointments to the board and mechanisms that empower innovation from within the organisation. Social Boards align themselves with themes that are important to society.These may include measuring worker pay ratios, linking personal social and environmental objectives to remuneration, integrated reporting, fair tax and B-Corp Certification. \n\nSocial Boards recognise that they are part of society and that they require more than a licence to operate to succeed.They balance short-term shareholder pressure against long-term value creation, managing the business for a plurality of stakeholders including employees, shareholders, supply chains and civil society.\n\nThe Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 has introduced new standards of accountability on boards of U.S. companies or companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges. Under the Act, directors risk large fines and prison sentences in the case of accounting crimes. Internal control is now the direct responsibility of directors. The vast majority of companies covered by the Act have hired internal auditors to ensure that the company adheres to required standards of internal control. The internal auditors are required by law to report directly to an audit board, consisting of directors more than half of whom are outside directors, one of whom is a \"financial expert.\"\n\nThe law requires companies listed on the major stock exchanges (NYSE, NASDAQ) to have a majority of independent directors—directors who are not otherwise employed by the firm or in a business relationship with it.\n\nAccording to the Corporate Library's study, the average size of publicly traded company's board is 9.2 members, and most boards range from 3 to 31 members. According to Investopedia, some analysts think the ideal size is seven. State law may specify a minimum number of directors, maximum number of directors, and qualifications for directors (e.g. whether board members must be individuals or may be business entities).\n\nWhile a board may have several committees, two—the compensation committee and audit committee—are critical and must be made up of at least three independent directors and no inside directors. Other common committees in boards are nominating and governance.\n\nDirectors of Fortune 500 companies received median pay of $234,000 in 2011. Directorship is a part-time job. A recent National Association of Corporate Directors study found directors averaging just 4.3 hours a week on board work. Surveys indicate that about 20% of nonprofit foundations pay their board members, and 2% of American nonprofit organizations do. 80% of nonprofit organizations require board members to personally contribute to the organization, as BoardSource recommends. This percentage has increased in recent years.\n\nAccording to John Gillespie, a former investment banker and co-author of a book critical of boards, \"Far too much of their time has been for check-the-box and cover-your-behind activities rather than real monitoring of executives and providing strategic advice on behalf of shareholders\". At the same time, scholars have found that individual directors have a large effect on major corporate initiatives such as mergers and acquisitions and cross-border investments.\n\nThe issue of gender representation on corporate boards of directors has been the subject of much criticism in recent years. Governments and corporations have responded with measures such as legislation mandating gender quotas and comply or explain systems to address the disproportionality of gender representation on corporate boards. A study of the French corporate elite has found that certain social classes are also disproportionately represented on boards, with those from the upper and, especially, upper-middle classes tending to dominate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14471837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14471837", "title": "Border search exception", "text": "Border search exception\n\nIn United States criminal law, the border search exception or doctrine is a doctrine that allows searches and seizures at international borders and their functional equivalent without a warrant or probable cause. The doctrine is not regarded as an exception to the Fourth Amendment, but rather to its requirement for a warrant or probable cause. Balanced against the sovereign's interests at the border are the Fourth Amendment rights of entrants. Not only is the expectation of privacy less at the border than in the interior, the Fourth Amendment balance between the interests of the government and the privacy right of the individual is also struck much more favorably to the government at the border. This balance at international borders means that routine searches are \"reasonable\" there, and therefore do not violate the Fourth Amendment's proscription against \"unreasonable searches and seizures\".\n\nFederal law allows certain federal agents to conduct search and seizures within 100 miles of the border into the interior of the United States. The Supreme Court has clearly and repeatedly confirmed that the border search exception applies within 100 miles of the border of the United States as seen in cases such as \"United States v. Martinez-Fuerte\" where it was held that the Border Patrol's routine stopping of a vehicle at a permanent checkpoint located on a major highway away from the Mexican border for brief questioning of the vehicle's occupants is consistent with the Fourth Amendment. However, searches of automobiles without a warrant by roving patrols have been deemed unconstitutional.\n\nThe U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers, U.S. Border Patrol agents, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Special Agents, and U.S. Coast Guard officers (E4 grade and above) who are all customs officers (those tasked with enforcing Title 19 of the United States Code) with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, are permitted to search travelers and their belongings at the American border without probable cause or a warrant. Pursuant to this authority, customs officers may generally stop and search the property of any traveler entering the United States at random, or even based largely on ethnic profiles.\n\nAt the border, customs officers and Border Patrol agents are authorized to search all travelers' closed containers without any level of suspicion. This authority extends to all physical containers, regardless of size or the possible presence of personal, confidential or embarrassing materials. Pursuant to this authority, Customs may also open and search incoming international mail.\n\nCurrently, the main area of contention concerning the border search exception is its application to search a traveler's cell phone or other electronic device. In 2014, the US Supreme Court issued its landmark ruling in \"Riley v. California\", which held that law enforcement officials violated the Fourth Amendment when they searched an arrestee's cellphone without a warrant. The court explained, “Modern cell phones are not just another technological convenience. With all they contain and all they may reveal, they hold for many Americans 'the privacies of life.' The fact that technology now allows an individual to carry such information in his hand does not make the information any less worthy of the protection for which the Founders fought.\"\n\nIn 2013, before \"Riley\" was decided, the Ninth Circuit court of appeals held that reasonable suspicion is required to subject a computer seized at the border to forensic examination.\n\n\"United States v. Vergara\" is the first federal circuit court to address whether Riley’s reasoning extends to a search of a traveler’s cell phone at the border. In \"Vergara\", a divided panel of the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals held that, “[b]order searches never require probable cause or a warrant,” and Riley’s analysis does not apply to border searches, even for forensic searches of cell phones. The dissent, authored by Judge Jill Pryor, disagreed, concluding that, “[m]y answer to the question of what law enforcement officials must do before forensically searching a cell phone at the border, like the Supreme Court’s answer to manually searching a cell phone incident to arrest, ‘is accordingly simple—get a warrant.’”\n\nThe Supreme Court has not addressed the standard of suspicion necessary for a warrantless border search of electronic materials, even though the number of cell phone border searches continues to rise each year. Notably, Vergara has called upon the Court to resolve the level of Fourth Amendment process necessary for warrantless cell phone searches.\n\nOne impact of these cases is that commerce may be impacted. Sensitive business information, academic materials for conferences, and other types of valuable information may be delayed by these practices.\n\nIn May of 2018, in \"U.S. v. Kolsuz\", the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals has held that it is unconstitutional for US border officials to subject visitors' devices to forensic searches without individualized suspicion of criminal wrongdoing. Just five days later, in \"U.S. v. Touset\", the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals split with the Fourth and Ninth Circuits, ruling that the Fourth Amendment does not require suspicion for forensic searches of electronic devices at the border. The existence of a circuit split is one of the factors that the Supreme Court of the United States considers when deciding whether to grant review of a case.\n\nAlthough routine searches of the persons and effects of entrants are not subject to any requirement of reasonable suspicion, probable cause, or warrant, more invasive searches or seizures of a person's body require some suspicion.\n\nThe Supreme Court has held \"that the detention of a traveler at the border, beyond the scope of a routine customs search and inspection, is justified at its inception if customs agents, considering all the facts surrounding the traveler and her trip, reasonably suspect that the traveler is smuggling contraband in her alimentary canal.\" Characterized in terms of the Fourth Amendment, the Court was saying that such a detention (\"seizure\") was \"reasonable\", and therefore did not violate the Fourth Amendment. \n\nThe Supreme Court expressly \"did not\" rule what level of suspicion would be necessary for a strip, body-cavity, or involuntary x-ray search, though they did say that the only two standards for Fourth Amendment purposes short of a warrant were \"reasonable suspicion\" and \"probable cause\" (rejecting a \"clear indication\" standard).\n\nIn the border search context, reasonable suspicion means that the facts known to the customs officer at the time of the search, combined with the officer's reasonable inferences from those facts, provides the officer with a particularized and objective basis for suspecting that the search will reveal contraband. To form a basis for reasonable suspicion, a customs officer may rely on his training and prior experience, and may rely on entirely innocent factors, if the totality of the circumstances provide the officer with reasonable suspicion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2637316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2637316", "title": "Bowen v. Roy", "text": "Bowen v. Roy\n\nBowen v. Roy, 476 U.S. 693 (1986), was a United States Supreme Court case which established limits on freedom of religion in the United States.\n\nThe plaintiffs were Native American parents who had applied for financial assistance under a U.S. government welfare program. One of the requirements to receive Aid to Families with Dependent Children and food stamps under these programs was that the applicants supply Social Security numbers for their children and themselves. The plaintiffs refused to do so for their daughter, named Little Bird of the Snow, as they claimed use of this number outside her choosing to do so when she came of age, a form of spiritual self-actualization, would violate their religious beliefs. Their belief was that using a social security number to identify her would diminish her spiritual uniqueness and \"rob her spirit.\" At trial Roy testified \"...It serves unique purposes. It's applied to her and only her; and being applied to her, that's what offends us, and we try to keep her person unique, and we try to keep her spirit unique, and we're scared that if we were to use this number, she would lose control of that and she would have no ability to protect herself from any evil that that number might be used against her.\" Other religious faiths had expressed closely similar objections — biblical Christians quoting Revelation, asserting that the SSN is one of a system of numbers the Antichrist will cause all people in American society to accept and use in order to function, to buy or sell goods, or social security numbers are the \"mark of the beast\", of the Antichrist who threatens to control the world and to accept a number is to \"serve the beast.\"\n\nWhen the Roys refused to provide a social security number for their daughter, the Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare cut benefits for Little Bird of the Snow to comply with federal guidelines. The Roys then filed suit, claiming infringement of their right to practice their religion. In the Middle District Court for Pennsylvania, both sides stipulated before and during trial that Little Bird of the Snow did not have a Social Security number. During the last day of the trial, the Social Security administration disclosed it did, after a search, already possess a social security number issued shortly after Little Bird of the Snow's birth.\n\nIn its brief before the Court, the government's brief informed the Social Security Administration \"...itself assigns [Social Security numbers] to persons who are required by federal law to have one but decline to complete an application. If, for religious reasons, the individual requiring [a Social Security number] does not wish to receive a social security card, the agency will accommodate that request. Similarly, when an applicant refuses to sign an application for [a Social Security number] on religious grounds, [Social Security Administration personnel] may sign in lieu of the applicant.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled that the government's use of a Social Security number for the child did not impair her family's freedom to \"believe, express and exercise\" their religion, and that the plaintiffs' claim was without merit. In the majority opinion, Chief Justice Warren Burger noted that \"never to our knowledge has the Court interpreted the First Amendment to require the Government itself to behave in ways that the individual believes will further his or her spiritual development or that of his or her family\", vacating an injunction entered by the District Court enjoining use of a Social Security number by the government.\n\nConcurring in part and dissenting in part, Justice O'Connor noted, \"The Government still refuses to concede that it should now provide welfare benefits to Little Bird of the Snow, even though it now claims to possess Little Bird of the Snow's Social Security number.\"\n\nBy a plurality decision, it was remanded back to the Federal District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, for a hearing on whether the government complied with the Privacy Act in issuing and using a Social Security number. The case was eventually settled with the plaintiffs and government agreeing that all records and data in all its computers containing a social security number for Little Bird of the Snow Roy were to be eradicated or erased.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52049510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52049510", "title": "CW-1 visa", "text": "CW-1 visa\n\nThe CW-1 visa is a non-immigrant visa which allows travel to United States for temporary workers to be employed in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI). \n\nFor employers to be eligible to petition for a CW-1 visa, they must:\n\n\nThe duration of stay for the recipient of a CW-1 is one year. Annually, a maximum of 12,999 workers may be admitted under this visa class. Recipients of a CW-1 may not travel to other parts of the US, with the exception of those who are nationals of the Philippines, who are allowed to travel between\nthe Philippines and CNMI via the Guam airport.\n\nAs of 2016, the CW program is set to expire effective December 31 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "17280848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17280848", "title": "Certificate of legal aid costs", "text": "Certificate of legal aid costs\n\nA certificate of legal aid costs is a British \"certificate of costs allowed following taxation by a judicial or taxing officer.\" It actually has nothing to do with legal aid.\n\nIt is similar to a bill of costs used in Italy, and elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "26937088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26937088", "title": "China International Copyright Expo", "text": "China International Copyright Expo\n\nChina International Copyright Expo is an annual event that brings companies and organizations, both governmental and independent, to China to discuss various aspects of copyright and intellectual property rights (IPR). The Expo was first held in 2008 and was attended by experts and organizations from countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, South Korea, and many more. The Expo \"actively builds an international copyright trade platform, which is focused on industry exchange and trade, this expo consists of four parts; International Copyright Forum, Industrial Exhibition, Thematic Activities, and Cultural Performance Activities.\"\n\nThe China International Copyright Expo is held annually in the National Convention Center in the Olympic Green located just outside the North 4th Ring road in Beijing. The expo consists of four major sections.\n\nThe Expo is hosted by:\n\nThe Expo is operated by:\n\nThe Expo is implemented by:\n\nIn its first year, the China International Copyright Expo was held in the large banquet hall of the Ritz Carlton Hotel in Beijing. In addition to the organizations listed above, it was also sponsored by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Mr. Francis Gurry, Director General of WIPO dubbed the event the, \"Copyright Olympics.\"\n\nThe International Copyright Forum with the theme of Copyright Creates Fortune was sponsored by The National Copyright Administration of the People's Republic of China and World Intellectual Property Organization, organized by China Press and Publishing Journal and Beijing International Copyright Trade Center. The objective of the forum was to look at global trends and enhance communication between the cultural creative market in China and the rest of the world. Michael Keplinger, Deputy Director Genernal of the WIPO was the keynote speaker.\n\nThere were five main thematic activities at the 1st China International Expo. All the activities were primarily sponsored by the organizing committee of the China International Copyright Expo.\n\nThe 2nd China International Copyright Expo, October 24–27, 2009, was held at the China National Convention Center (aka Olympic Green Convention Center) in the Olympic Park, Beijing. There were 11 exhibition zones in all and the exhibition products came from across the cultural creative industry, including: film and television, music, photography, creative cultural, animation, and games. The material supplied by the Beijing International Copyright Trade Center, the organization that executed the event, states that there were, \"about 100 project agreements\" signed \"and financing capital reached more than 100 million RMB.\"\n\nThe International Copyright Forum was kicked off with a speech buy the Vice-Chairman of the Committee of the National People's Congress, Lu Yongxiang, which was followed by the keynote address titled, Copyright Influences the World by the Director of General Administration of Publication and Press, Liu Binjie. In this address Mr. Liu discussed the impacts, especially economic impacts, that the cultural creative industry has had on the world market, and in particular how China has put great focus on this market in recent years.\n\nThis was followed by talks by the Vice-Secretary General of WIPO, Ms. Wang Bin-ying; the influential Chinese economist, professor Li Yi-ning (); noted cultural creative industry scholar, Mr. John Howkins; Vice-Minister of the General Administration of Press and Publication and the National Copyright Administration of China, Yan Xiao-long; Deputy Director General of Copyright Management Department of the National Copyright Administration of China, Mr. Xu Chao; the Vice-Chairman of the Internet Society of China (), Gao Lu-lin; the President of the International Publishers Association, Mr. Herman P. Spruijt; the Chairman of China Film Copyright Protection Association, Mr. Zhu Yong-de; The Chairman of the Board of Sohu Corporation, Mr. Zhang Chao-yang; President of Asia-Pacific division of the Motion Picture Association of America, Mr. Michael Ellis; Director of the Korean Cultural Service in China, Mr. Kim Ik Kyum; and Asia-Pacific President of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry Association, Ms. Leong Mayseey.\n\nFinally, a four-person forum was held where Mr. Yang De-an, Vice-Chairman of China Publishers Association and China Copyright Association; Mr. Tom Allen, Chairman of the United States Publishers Association; Mr. Simon Juden, CEO of The Publishers Association (UK); and Mr. Li Peng-yin, the Vice-Director of China Publish Group.\n\nThe 2nd China International Copyright Expo attracted more than 300 exhibitors from throughout China, and countries such as Korea, Japan, United States, France, Germany, and the UK. Perhaps the most popular booth was hosted by the Country of Honor, Korea. The Korean booth had various cultural performances including music, dancing and Cosplay performance, drawing much attention for all who passed by \n\nIn the 2nd China International Copyright Expo the Thematic Activities were expanded and much improved over the 2008 Expo. There were seven activities most of which were focused on digital media. It seems apparent that the Chinese organizers see the digital market place as a very significant trend and are trying to encourage it domestically and use this expo to expose Chinese products to the international community. All activities were hosted by the Organizing Committee of the China International Copyright Expo with various co-hosts. All activities were executed by Beijing International Copyright Trade Center with various other organizations according to the event.\n\nThematic activities included:\n\nThere were two cultural performances at the 2nd China International Copyright Expo.\n\nThe 3rd China International Copyright Expo will be held November 18–21, 2010 at the National Convention Center (the same venue as the 2009 expo), however the schedule has yet to be released.\n\n"}
{"id": "12831668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12831668", "title": "Commerce Commission", "text": "Commerce Commission\n\nThe Commerce Commission is a New Zealand government agency charged with enforcing legislation that promotes competition in the country's markets and prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct by traders. It is an independent, quasi-judicial body, established under the Commerce Act 1986. The purpose of the Act is to promote competition in New Zealand's economy. It prohibits conducts that restricts competition (restrictive trade practices) and the purchase of a business's shares or assets if that purchase leads to a substantial lessening of competition in the market.\n\nThe Commission is accountable to the Minister of Commerce and Associate Minister of Commerce for its performance. It is intended to be an independent and impartial promoter and enforcer of the law, with a purpose of achieving the best possible outcomes in competitive and regulated markets for the long-term benefit of New Zealanders.\n\nThe Commission undertakes investigations and where appropriate, takes court action. It considers applications for authorisation in relation to anti-competitive behaviour and mergers.\n\nThe Commission also enforces pieces of legislation specific to the telecommunications, dairy and electricity industries.\n\nThe Commerce Commission has specific roles under various Acts, as follows:\n\nThe Fair Trading Act 1986 was developed with the Commerce Act to encourage competition and to protect consumers from misleading and deceptive conduct and unfair trading practices. The Act applies to all aspects of the promotion and sale of goods and services – from advertising and pricing to sales techniques and finance agreements.\n\nThe Act also applies to pyramid schemes, and provides for consumer information standards covering country of origin (clothing and footwear labelling, fibre content labelling, care labelling and supplier information notices relating to motor vehicles. The Commission also enforces six product safety standards relating to baby walkers, pedal bicycles, flammability of children’s night clothes, cigarette lighters, household cots and toys for children aged up to three years.\n\nThe Commission has both enforcement and adjudication roles under the Dairy Industry Restructuring Act 2001. The Act provides for the Commission to undertake enforcement action and requires the Commission to issue determinations to resolve disputes between Fonterra and other parties.\n\nThe Telecommunications Act 2001 regulates the supply of telecommunications services in New Zealand. It requires the Commission to make determinations in respect of designated access and specified services and to undertake costing and monitoring activities relating to the Telecommunications Service Obligations.\n\nThe Commission assumed responsibility for enforcing the major provisions of the Credit Contracts and Consumer Finance Act 2003 on 1 April 2005. This Act repealed the Credit Contracts Act 1981 and the Hire Purchase Act 1971, placing obligations on creditors with respect to disclosure requirements; calculation of fees, charges and interest; and oppressive conduct. It also enables consumers to seek reasonable changes to credit contracts on the grounds of unforeseen hardship. The part of the Act which relates to oppressive contracts known as buy-back transactions was enacted on 14 October 2003 and was already enforced by the Commission prior to April 2005.\n\nIn 2011, former National Finance director and convicted fraudster Trevor Allan Ludlow was the first person to be indefinitely banned by the Commission from working in the consumer finance industry.\n\nThe Commission has a cartel leniency policy to assist in the investigation of anti-competitive arrangements between competitors that are often secret and difficult to detect. The Commission wishes to encourage those involved in cartel conduct to report the cartel to the Commission. The Commission will grant immunity from Commission-initiated proceedings to the first person involved in a cartel to come forward with information and formally apply for leniency, provided they co-operate fully with the Commission in its investigation and prosecution of the cartel.\n\nThe leniency policy applies to arrangements between competitors which substantially lessen competition. It does not include conduct which amounts to a company taking advantage of a substantial degree of market power.\n\nThe Commerce Commission has a role in the regulation of some markets where there is little or no competition. The markets where the Commission is currently involved include: electricity transmission and distribution, gas transmission and distribution, telecommunications, airports and the dairy industry. The Commerce Act Part 4 contains specific provisions for regulation in these markets with a purpose of promoting outcomes that are consistent with outcomes produced in competitive markets such that suppliers of regulated goods or services:\n\nThe regulatory frameworks are defined using input methodologies that establish the rules, requirements, and processes applying to the regulation, or proposed regulation, of goods or services under Part 4 of the Commerce Act 1986. The input methodologies typically cover the approach used to evaluate or determine cost of capital, valuation of assets, allocation of common costs, pricing methodologies, regulatory processes and rules, and the criteria that the Commerce Commission will use to evaluate any proposal.\n\nCommission members are appointed for their knowledge of, and experience in, areas relevant to the Commission’s interests. The Commission comprises a chair, deputy chair, and up to three members. The Telecommunications Act created the position of Telecommunications Commissioner. Associate members and up to two cease and desist members may also be appointed.\n\nThe current members are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2078455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2078455", "title": "Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962", "text": "Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962\n\nThe Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nBefore the Act was passed, citizens of Commonwealth countries had extensive rights to migrate to the UK. In response to a perceived heavy influx of immigrants, the Conservative Party government tightened the regulations, permitting only those with government-issued employment vouchers, limited in number, to settle. The leader of the opposition in Parliament at the time, Hugh Gaitskell of the Labour Party, called the act \"cruel and brutal anti-colour legislation\". \n\nThe Act specified that all Commonwealth citizens without a connection to the UK (including Citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies who were not born in the UK and not holding a British passport issued by the British government) were subject to immigration control. Commonwealth citizens who were residing in the UK or who had resided in the UK at any point from 1960 to 1962 were exempted, as well as CUKCs and Commonwealth citizens holding a passport issued by the British government or who were born in the UK. The exemption also applied to wives and children under 16 of these people, or any person included on these people's passports.\n\nThe Act was amended by the Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1968 and was superseded by another new Act, Immigration Act 1971, which came into force in 1971. \n\nThese Acts resulted from widespread opposition to immigration in Britain from a variety of political groups, including the Conservative Monday Club, whose Members of Parliament were very active and vocal in their opposition to mass immigration.\n\n"}
{"id": "21867622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21867622", "title": "Competition Act", "text": "Competition Act\n\nThe Competition Act is a Canadian federal law governing competition law in Canada. The Act contains both criminal and civil provisions aimed at preventing anti-competitive practices in the marketplace. The Act is enforced and administered by the Competition Bureau, and cases are adjudicated by the Competition Tribunal.\n\nThe first legislation in Canada dealing with competition was first introduced in 1889. The legislation prohibited conspiracies and agreements by businesses in restraint of trade. Inspired by the American Sherman Antitrust Act, the legislation was mostly incorporated into the Canadian Criminal Code two years later. In 1912, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the purpose of the legislation was protect the public interest in free competition. The provisions remained in the Criminal Code until 1960, when the federal government introduced the Combines Investigation Act.\n\nIn 1986, the legislation was again amended and renamed the Competition Act by the conservative government of Brian Mulroney.\n\nThe administration and enforcement of the Competition Act is done by the Competition Bureau, which is also responsible for the administration and enforcement of the Consumer Packaging and Labelling Act, the Textile Labelling Act and the Precious Metals Marking Act.\n\nThe Competition Tribunal is a specialized administrative body that has exclusive jurisdiction to hear certain competition matters.\n\n"}
{"id": "51894591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51894591", "title": "Concurrent intent", "text": "Concurrent intent\n\nConcurrent intent is when there is a specific intent to commit one crime, and at the same time (concurrently) an intent to commit another. An example is when a perpetrator plants a bomb or shoots an automatic weapon in a crowded place, with an intent to kill a specified target, the perpetrator can be found to have a concurrent intent to kill others who are not specifically targeted, but who are in the kill zone. Cases de, fining concurrent intent in common law include \"People v. Stone\" (2009) and \"People v. Bland\" (2002), each of which involve a drive-by shooting into a crowd.\n"}
{"id": "6248046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6248046", "title": "Continental Automated Buildings Association", "text": "Continental Automated Buildings Association\n\nThe Continental Automated Buildings Association (CABA) is an international, not-for-profit, industry organization that promotes intelligent home and intelligent building technologies.\n\nThe organization is supported by an international membership of 380 organizations and over 27,000 industry professionals involved in the design, manufacture, installation and retailing of products relating to home automation and building automation. Public organizations, including utilities and government are also members.\n\nCABA's mission is to enable organizations and individuals to make informed decisions about the integration of technology, ecosystems and connected lifestyles in homes and buildings. Its goal is to bring together a community of experts that evaluates and conveys trends and best practices advancing applications, technology and integrated systems.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1988 as the Canadian Automated Buildings Association. The founding members included Bell Canada, Bell-Northern Research, Ontario Hydro, Hydro-Québec, Consumers Gas, Canadian Home Builders' Association, the Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers Association of Canada, Industry Canada, Minto Developments Inc. and the National Research Council of Canada.\n\nIn 2006, CABA acquired the Internet Home Alliance, an association of technology companies committed to research and development within the intelligent home sector. In 2010, CABA's collaborative research evolved and expanded into the CABA Research Program, which is directed by the CABA Board of Directors. The CABA Research Program's scope now includes market research for both large building technologies and home systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "6273150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6273150", "title": "Convention on Cybercrime", "text": "Convention on Cybercrime\n\nThe Convention on Cybercrime, also known as the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime or the Budapest Convention, is the first international treaty seeking to address Internet and computer crime by harmonizing national laws, improving investigative techniques, and increasing cooperation among nations. It was drawn up by the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, France, with the active participation of the Council of Europe's observer states Canada, Japan, Philippines, South Africa and the United States.\n\nThe Convention and its Explanatory Report was adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe at its 109th Session on 8 November 2001. It was opened for signature in Budapest, on 23 November 2001 and it entered into force on 1 July 2004. As of November 2018, 61 states have ratified the convention, while a further four states had signed the convention but not ratified it.\n\nSince it entered into force, important countries like Brazil and India have declined to adopt the Convention on the grounds that they did not participate in its drafting. Russia opposes the Convention, stating that adoption would violate Russian sovereignty, and has usually refused to cooperate in law enforcement investigations relating to cybercrime. It is the first multilateral legally binding instrument to regulate cybercrime. Since 2018, India has been reconsidering its stand on the Convention after a surge in cybercrime, though concerns about sharing data with foreign agencies remain. \n\nOn 1 March 2006, the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Cybercrime came into force. Those States that have ratified the additional protocol are required to criminalize the dissemination of racist and xenophobic material through computer systems, as well as threats and insults motivated by racism or xenophobia.\n\nThe Convention is the first international treaty on crimes committed via the Internet and other computer networks, dealing particularly with infringements of copyright, computer-related fraud, child pornography, hate crimes, and violations of network security. It also contains a series of powers and procedures such as the search of computer networks and lawful interception.\n\nIts main objective, set out in the preamble, is to pursue a common criminal policy aimed at the protection of society against cybercrime, especially by adopting appropriate legislation and fostering international cooperation.\n\nThe Convention aims principally at:\n\nThe following offences are defined by the Convention: illegal access, illegal interception, data interference, system interference, misuse of devices, computer-related forgery, computer-related fraud, offences related to child pornography, and offences related to copyright and neighbouring rights.\n\nIt also sets out such procedural law issues as expedited preservation of stored data, expedited preservation and partial disclosure of traffic data, production order, search and seizure of computer data, real-time collection of traffic data, and interception of content data. In addition, the Convention contains a provision on a specific type of transborder access to stored computer data which does not require mutual assistance (with consent or where publicly available) and provides for the setting up of a 24/7 network for ensuring speedy assistance among the Signatory Parties. Further, as conditions and safeguards, the Convention requires the provision for adequate protection of human rights and liberties, including rights arising pursuant to obligations under European Convention on Human Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and other applicable international human rights instruments, and shall incorporate the principle of proportionality.\n\nThe Convention is the product of four years of work by European and international experts. It has been supplemented by an Additional Protocol making any publication of racist and xenophobic propaganda via computer networks a criminal offence, similar to Criminal Libel laws. Currently, cyber terrorism is also studied in the framework of the Convention.\n\nIts ratification by the United States Senate by unanimous consent in August 2006 was both praised and condemned. The United States became the 16th nation to ratify the convention. The Convention entered into force in the United States on 1 January 2007.\n\nSenate Majority Leader Bill Frist said: \"While balancing civil liberty and privacy concerns, this treaty encourages the sharing of critical electronic evidence among foreign countries so that law enforcement can more effectively investigate and combat these crimes\".\n\nThe Electronic Privacy Information Centre said: \n\nThe Convention includes a list of crimes that each signatory state must transpose into their own law. It requires the criminalization of such activities as hacking (including the production, sale, or distribution of hacking tools) and offenses relating to child pornography, and expands criminal liability for intellectual property violations. It also requires each signatory state to implement certain procedural mechanisms within their laws. For example, law enforcement authorities must be granted the power to compel an Internet service provider to monitor a person's activities online in real time. Finally, the Convention requires signatory states to provide international cooperation to the widest extent possible for investigations and proceedings concerning criminal offenses related to computer systems and data, or for the collection of evidence in electronic form of a criminal offense. Law enforcement agencies will have to assist police from other participating countries to cooperate with their mutual assistance requests\".\n\nAlthough a common legal framework would eliminate jurisdictional hurdles to facilitate the law enforcement of borderless cyber crimes, a complete realization of a common legal framework may not be possible. Transposing Convention provisions into domestic law is difficult especially if it requires the incorporation of substantive expansions that run counter to constitutional principles. For instance, the United States may not be able to criminalize all the offenses relating to child pornography that are stated in the Convention, specifically the ban on virtual child pornography, because of its First Amendment's free speech principles. Under Article 9(2)(c) of the Convention, a ban on child pornography includes any \"realistic images representing a minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct\". According to the Convention, the United States would have to adopt this ban on virtual child pornography as well, however, the U.S. Supreme Court, in \"Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition\", struck down as unconstitutional a provision of the CPPA that prohibited \"any visual depiction\" that \"is, or appears to be, of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct\". In response to the rejection, the U.S. Congress enacted the PROTECT Act to amend the provision, limiting the ban to any visual depiction \"that is, or is indistinguishable from, that of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct\". 18 U.S.C\n\nThe Convention was signed by Canada, Japan, the United States, and South Africa on 23 November 2001, in Budapest. As of July 2016, the non–Council of Europe states that have ratified the treaty are Australia, Canada, Dominican Republic, Israel, Japan, Mauritius, Panama, Sri Lanka, and the United States.\n\nOn 21 October 2013, in a press release, the Foreign Ministry of Colombia stated that the Council of Europe had invited Colombia to adhere to the Convention of Budapest. Colombia has not acceded to the convention.\n\nAlthough Egypt has not signed off on the Convention, Egyptian President Al Sisi`s government in 2018 has legislated two major computer-crime related laws. Targeting Social networking service such as Facebook and Twitter, the legislation criminalises fake news and terrorism, setting a flag on accounts which carry more than 5,000 subscribers or followers. The early legislation had been criticised by Amnesty International, thus websites can appeal to the courts within 7 days of blacklisting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3233341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3233341", "title": "Crown Prosecutor (Australia)", "text": "Crown Prosecutor (Australia)\n\nCrown Prosecutors are the public prosecutors in the legal system of Australia.\n\nCrown Prosecutors represent the Crown in right of the Commonwealth and in right of each State or Territory in criminal proceedings. Crown Prosecutors are appointed not elected and are not public servants; they are private counsel briefed by the Director of Public Prosecutions for particular cases. Their mixed caseload as prosecutor and defence counsel, with the consequent ability to see both sides, is widely seen as an advantage of the system.\n\nBoth the Commonwealth of Australia and the Australian States and Territories can make criminal laws under the Constitution of Australia, so Crown Prosecutors deal with both state and federal offences. The typical Crown Prosecutor, often a Queen's Counsel or Senior Counsel, will have extensive experience as defence counsel as well as prosecuting counsel.\n\n"}
{"id": "15399756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15399756", "title": "Declaration of incompatibility", "text": "Declaration of incompatibility\n\nA declaration of incompatibility is a declaration issued by a United Kingdom judge that a statute is incompatible with the European Convention of Human Rights under the Human Rights Act 1998 section 4. This is a central part of UK constitutional law. Very few declarations of incompatibility have been issued, in comparison to the number of challenges.\nSection 3(1) of the Human Rights Act 1998 reads as follows: \"So far as it is possible to do so, primary legislation and subordinate legislation must be read and given effect in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights\". Where the court determines a piece of legislation is inconsistent with the Convention rights, the court can issue a declaration of incompatibility under section 4 of the Human Rights Act 1998. However, the declaration of incompatibility is often seen as a last resort as the judiciary will attempt to interpret primary legislation as being compatible. Such a declaration will only be issued if such a reading is not possible. \n\nOnce the court has issued a declaration of incompatibility, the law remains the same until Parliament removes the incompatibility. The courts must still apply the legislation as it is and the parties to the actual case are unaffected by the declaration. Hence, the declaration has no actual legal effect and the parties neither gain nor lose by it. A declaration of incompatibility is only the start of a remedy to a Human Rights Act 1998 claim. Section 8 of the Act enables the court to make any further remedy it sees fit.\n\nIn England and Wales, the High Court, Court of Appeal, Supreme Court, Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, and the Courts Martial Appeal Court can issue declarations of incompatibility. In Scotland, in addition to the Supreme Court, the Court of Session and the High Court of Justiciary are also able to issue declarations of incompatibility. In Northern Ireland, the Northern Irish High Court or Court of Appeals can issue a statement of incompatibility for Acts of the Northern Irish Assembly \n\nBy section 10 of the Human Rights Act 1998, a \"fast track\" option of a remedial order (a type of statutory instrument) can be used by the ministers to amend non-compliant legislation which has been declared incompatible (except if it is a measure of the Church of England). As of 2016 this option has been used twice: in 2001 for the Mental Health Act 1983, and in 2009 for the Sexual Offences Act 2003.\n\nThere had been 20 declarations of incompatibility by April 2013, with 8 having been overturned on appeal. By July 2016 there were two more declarations finalised, and four more subject to appeal.\n\nThe following cases involved declarations of incompatibility that were overturned on appeal:\n\nThe following cases involved the court finding that a statute was incompatible but not making a formal declaration of incompatibility:\n\n"}
{"id": "42051349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42051349", "title": "Dishu system", "text": "Dishu system\n\nDishu () was an important legal and moral system involving marriage and inheritance in ancient China.\n\nIn pre-modern eras, upper-class men in ancient China, Korea and Japan often had more than one spouse to ensure the birth of a male heir to their assets and titles. In China, a priority system was created to rank the offsprings' entitlement to this inheritance. Under this system, a man was allowed one official wife, called a zhengshi (正室, pronounced \"seishitsu\" in Japanese, lit. \"formal household\") or Di\" wife (嫡妻), and her son was called the Di\" son (嫡子). A woman have to go through a formal wedding to become Di wife, otherwise she would be considered as a concubine of her husband. A man can only have one Di wife, unless he has already divorced with her. In the Tang Dynasty, any man who had more than one \"Di\" wife would be considered to be bigamous and would be liable to one year of penal labor. The woman involved would also receive a slightly less severe punishment unless she could prove she had been cheated into the marriage. In either case, the marriage would be annulled.\n\nA secondary spouse was called a ceshi (側室, lit. \"side household\") or Shu\" wife (庶妻). A man only needs a small ritual, or even without any ceremony to have one shu wife. It is allowed to have several Shu wives at the same time according to the law. Shu wife‘s son was called the Shu\" son (庶子). Shu sons, have to regard Di wife of their father as their mother and respect her. Their birth mother, would be called yiniang (姨娘, lit. \"aunt\"). Based on social standards, it is required that Di wife's major responsibilities are managing all Shu wives and taking care of them like her younger sisters. However，if Shu wives do not show respect to Di wife, then Di wife have got right to punish them.\n\n\"Di\" sons, regardless of their age, held much higher social status than the \"Shu\" sons, and the eldest \"Di\" son (嫡長子) held the paramount position over all other children of the house. An illegitimate son, born out of wedlock, was generally categorized as a \"Shu\" son, though he would have much lower status than those born to legitimate \"Shu\" wives.Tang dynasty law prescribed that if a Di son died, his eldest Di son (Di grandson) should be the successor, taking precedence over all other members of the family; if a Di grandson could not be found, the Di son's next full-brother (born of the same \"zhengshi\" mother) should be the successor. If no Di offspring were available, a Shu son could be considered.\n\nDuring most of the history of imperial China, a man could not divorce or demote a \"zhengshi\" wife (以妻為妾) unless she had committed one of \"seven misconducts for divorce\" (七出).\n\nHowever, there were three conditions, known as \"three exceptions\" (三不去), that forbade a man from ever divorcing his wife even if she commits the above seven sins.\n\nTang law prescribed that a man caught demoting his \"zhengshi\" wife to \"ceshi\" without good cause would be sentenced to two years of penal labor, and the \"zhengshi\" wife's status would be restored. Any man who divorced his wife without legitimate reasons (the above-mentioned \"seven misconducts\") would be subjected to eighteen months of penal labor, and a further 100 strokes of the cane if he violated the wife's protection under the \"three exceptions\".\n\nAfter the Song Dynasty, the difference between social status of Di and Shu wives/sons decreased.\n"}
{"id": "2949445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2949445", "title": "Easter Crisis of 1920", "text": "Easter Crisis of 1920\n\nThe Easter Crisis of 1920 was a constitutional crisis and a significant event in the development of constitutional monarchy in Denmark during the Easter in March–April that year. It began with the dismissal of the elected government by the reigning monarch, King Christian X, a reserve power which was granted to him by the Danish constitution.\n\nThe immediate cause was a conflict between the king and the cabinet over the reunification with Denmark of Schleswig, a former Danish fiefdom which had been lost to Prussia during the Second War of Schleswig. Danish claims to the region persisted to the end of World War I, at which time the defeat of the Germans made it possible to resolve the dispute. According to the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, the disposition of Schleswig was to be determined by two Schleswig Plebiscites: one in Northern Schleswig (today Denmark's South Jutland County), the other in Central Schleswig (today part of the German state of Schleswig-Holstein). No plebiscite was planned for Southern Schleswig, as it was dominated by an ethnic German majority and, in accordance with prevailing sentiment of the times in favor of the nation state, remained part of the post-war German state.\nIn Northern Schleswig, 75% voted for reunification with Denmark and 25% for remaining with Germany. In Central Schleswig, the situation was reversed with 80% voting for Germany and 20% for Denmark. In light of these results, the government of Prime Minister Carl Theodor Zahle determined that reunification with Northern Schleswig could go forward, while Central Schleswig would remain under German control.\n\nMany Danish nationalists felt that Central Schleswig should be returned to Denmark regardless of the plebiscite's results, generally motivated by a desire to see Germany permanently weakened in the future. Christian agreed with these sentiments, and ordered Prime Minister Zahle to include Central Schleswig in the re-unification process. As Denmark had been operating as a parliamentary democracy since the Cabinet of Deuntzer in 1901, Zahle felt he was under no obligation to comply. He refused the order and resigned several days later after a heated exchange with the king.\n\nSubsequently, Christian dismissed the rest of the government and replaced it with a de facto conservative care-taker cabinet under Otto Liebe. The dismissal caused demonstrations and an almost revolutionary atmosphere in Denmark, and for several days the future of the monarchy seemed very much in doubt. In light of this, negotiations were opened between the king and members of the Social Democrats. \n\nFaced with the potential overthrow of the Danish crown, Christian backed down and dismissed his own government, installing as a compromise cabinet under Michael Pedersen Friis until elections could be held later that year.\n\nThis was the most recent time that a sitting Danish monarch took political action without the full support of parliament. Following the crisis, Christian accepted his drastically reduced role as symbolic head of state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10897189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10897189", "title": "False allegation of child sexual abuse", "text": "False allegation of child sexual abuse\n\nA false allegation of child sexual abuse is an accusation that a person committed one or more acts of child sexual abuse when in reality there was no perpetration of abuse by the accused person as alleged. Such accusations can be brought by the alleged victim, or by another person on the alleged victim's behalf. Studies on the rate of recorded child abuse allegations in the 1990s suggested that the overall rate of false accusations at that time was approximately 10%.\n\nOf the allegations determined to be false, only a small portion originated with the child, the studies showed; most false allegations originated with an adult bringing the accusations on behalf of a child, and of those, a large majority occurred in the context of divorce and child-custody battles.\n\nAnother possible motive is revenge by the person making the allegation against the accused person. There is also evidence that the UK (and formerly the New Zealand) systems of paying substantial compensation to alleged victims and their parents without requiring proof of the allegation, can provide a motive for making false allegations.\n\nWhen there is insufficient supporting evidence to determine whether an accusation is true or false, it is described as \"unsubstantiated\" or \"unfounded\". Accusations that are determined to be false based on corroborating evidence can be divided into three categories:\n\nA false allegation can occur as the result of intentional lying on the part of the accuser; or unintentionally, due to a confabulation, either arising spontaneously due to mental illness or resulting from deliberate or accidental suggestive questioning, coaching of the child, or faulty interviewing techniques. Researchers Poole and Lindsay suggested in 1997 applying separate labels to the two concepts, proposing the term \"false allegations\" be used specifically when the accuser is aware they are lying, and \"false suspicions\" (weasel word phrase; dissimulation) for the wider range of false accusations in which suggestive questioning may have been involved.\n\nFalse accusations can be prompted, aggravated or perpetuated by law enforcement, child protection or prosecution officials who become convinced of the guilt of the accused.\n\nDisconfirming evidence can lead to cognitive dissonance on the part of these individuals, and lead them to deliberately or unconsciously attempt to resolve dissonance by ignoring, discounting or even destroying the evidence. Once any steps are taken to justify the decision that the accused is guilty, it becomes very difficult for the official to accept disconfirming evidence, and this can continue during appeals, retrials or any other effort to revisit a verdict.\n\nDenial of child sexual abuse by the accused, or by others, is common and its reality is not easily accepted (though such a denial should never be interpreted as evidence of guilt). Reporting rates may also be substantially below actual rates of abuse as many victims do not disclose their abuse, which may result in an overrepresentation of false allegations due to the inaccurate estimation of actual cases of abuse. Of the millions of reports of child sexual abuse each year to state protective agencies in the US (including both substantiated and unsubstantiated reports), there is no formal determination as to what portion of those represent false allegations.\n\nFindings of multiple studies performed between 1987 and 1995 suggested that the rate of false allegations ranged from a low of 6% to a high of 35% of reported child sexual abuse cases. Experts have argued that the reason for the wide range of differences in the rates resulted from different criteria used in various studies. In particular, a lower rate was found in studies that considered false allegations to be based on intentional lying, whereas the higher rates were reported in studies that also added unintentional false allegations resulting from suggestive questioning. A 1992 meta-analysis suggests that false allegations represent between two and ten percent of all allegations.\n\nFalse reports are more common in custody disputes. Children appear to rarely make up false allegations of their own accord but will make false allegations if coercively questioned by individuals who believe abuse has occurred but refuse to accept children's statements that they were not abused (as was common practice during the satanic ritual abuse moral panic). False allegations can also arise as a consequence of false memories, sometimes implanted by questionable therapeutic practices.\n\nWrongful allegations involving alleged child victims may not be confined to sexual abuse. A prominent British paediatric neuropathologist, Dr Waney Squier, made headlines in 2011 by stating she believed that 'half or even more of those who have been brought to trial in the past for SBS have been wrongly convicted'.\n\nFalse retractions of accusations by children who have been abused are suggested to occur for one or more of several reasons: out of shame or embarrassment, fear of being sent to a foster home, due to the reaction of adults leading them to feel their behavior was \"wrong\" or \"bad\", a desire to protect the perpetrator who may be a close family member, fear of destroying the family, coaching by an adult family member insisting the child withdraw the accusation, and more. False retractions are less common when the child receives timely and appropriate support following the statement of the allegation.\n\nAccording to support group Falsely Accused Carers and Teachers (FACT), in 2000 there was a 90% conviction rate for alleged child sex abusers as compared to just 9% for cases of adult rape.\nIn the UK, all the post-1970 court cases that are recognized as authorities on evidence of disposition \"concern charges of sexual abuse of minors\". In 1991, the House of Lords judgment in Director of Public Prosecutions versus P significantly lowered the barrier to admission of similar fact evidence of disposition to commit a crime.\n\nThis, combined with the police practice of \"trawling\" for child abuse victims using door-to-door interviews and the potential for monetary compensation, has created opportunities and incentive for false allegations to occur:\n\nNormally, an allegation of a criminal offence has to stand or fall on its own merits: if a witness accusing someone of sexual abuse was sufficiently credible, or could adduce supporting evidence, then an abuser would be convicted. Until 1991, multiple allegations against the same person could only be held to be mutually corroborating if there were 'striking similarities' between the alleged crimes, indicating a criminal's 'signature,' a distinct modus operandi. But the judgment removed this protection. In effect, the courts have accepted the idea of 'corroboration by volume'.\n\nIn 2002, the Home Affairs Select Committee (Fourth report, 2001/2), which dealt with police trawling practices and referred to the 'enormous difficulties' faced by those accused of child sexual abuse, recommended that the requirement for similar fact evidence to be linked by 'striking similarities' be restored in cases involving allegations of historical child abuse. However this recommendation contradicted the Government White Paper Justice for All (2002), which proposed lowering the threshold for the admission of similar fact evidence still further. \n\nAllegations of sexual abuse can be inherently traumatic to the child when false. People falsely charged with sexual abuse often face numerous problems of their own. The nature of the crime leveled at them often evokes an overwhelming sense of betrayal. In highly publicized cases, the general public has a strong tendency to summarily assume the accused is guilty, leading to very serious social stigma. The accused, even if acquitted, risks being fired from their job, losing their friends and other relationships, having their property vandalized, and being harassed by those believing them to be guilty.\n\nIn 2001 there were 18 support and lobby groups extant in the UK \"set up to redress the injustice suffered by those who, they claim, have been wrongly convicted in abuse cases\". Groups currently active in the UK include False Allegations Against Carers and Teachers (FACT), False Allegations Support Organization (FASO), People Against False Allegations of Abuse (PAFAA with SOFAP), and SAFARI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21535421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21535421", "title": "Free contract", "text": "Free contract\n\nIn economics, free contract is the concept that people may decide what agreements they want to enter into.\n\nA contract may be described as \"free\" when it is free from force or fraud.\n"}
{"id": "28066243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28066243", "title": "Legal drug trade", "text": "Legal drug trade\n\nLegal drug trade, as with other goods object of commerce, in opposition to smuggling or \"illegal\" drug trade, most psychotropic substances' commerce is under control and taxation by world governments, regardless of the relative perceived danger of the goods that are the object of legislation.\nLegal commerce in drugs can be categorized according to the purpose of consumption (therapeutic vs recreational), type of drug involved and phase of the trading process, i.e.: production, distribution or consumption.\n\nDrugs useful for treating diseases are the object of pharmaceutical research and medical practice, and produced by the pharmaceutical industry, which in theory should be above United Nations legislation prohibiting use or sole possession of the drugs termed illegal for other purposes.\n\nPharmaceutical companies, through authorized dealers, guarantee the distribution of their products to their customers.\nSince antiquity, there have been stores specialized in drug selling. Today, they are called pharmacies or, straightforwardly, drugstores. Certain drugs officially considered trade-able without medical supervision are also sold in non-specialized stores, such as supermarkets.\n\nTherapeutic drug consumption can take place in an outpatient setting, or during hospitalization.\n\nAlcoholic beverages, containing psychoactive ethyl alcohol, are produced legally throughout the world. Their production supports a commercial alcohol industry. Consumption of alcohol is subject to regulation in most countries, namely by means of age restrictions.\n\nTobacco, a recreational drug containing nicotine, is produced legally in countries such as Cuba, China, and the United States. This also supports a tobacco industry and the production of a variety of tobacco products, which, like alcoholic beverages, are subject to age restrictions in most countries.\n\nCaffeine, a stimulant drug, is extracted from plants including the coffee plant and the tea bush. It is the most widely consumed psychoactive substance in the world, remaining unregulated and generally recognized as safe by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.\n\nThere are authorized dealers which provide consumers with legal intoxicants, every industry developing a network of distribution to connect with its clients. Drug publicity by producers and distributors aims at increasing consumption.\n\nLegal drugs for recreation are taken by people in private and in public, including places devoted to drug selling for consumption \"in situ\", such as bars and certain restaurants.\n\nThe above-mentioned substances represent the most important products legally produced for the purposes of mind-altering effects.\nSome critics argue that cannabis and opioids occupy the social position of alcohol and tobacco in some non-western countries, where alcohol and its users could be treated in a way resembling the harassment and prosecution of illegal drug users in western countries, in cultural defiance of the UN's worldwide prohibition. They are also the most important public health concern, as a result of prohibition of certain other drugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "17367647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17367647", "title": "List of law schools in Russia", "text": "List of law schools in Russia\n\nThis is a list of main law schools in Russia in alphabetical order.\n\nRussian law schools do not require attendees to have a bachelor's degree. For example, Vladimir Putin attended law school straight out of high school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2784347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2784347", "title": "M. E. Hart", "text": "M. E. Hart\n\nM.E. Hart is an attorney who is best known for his role as “MC Double Def DP” in the Software Publishers Association anti-piracy video, \"Don't Copy That Floppy\", released in 1992, and its sequel, \"Don't Copy That 2\", which was uploaded to the SIIA YouTube page on August 17, 2009, and then released on September 9, 2009.\n\nHart studied at the University of Kentucky and received his bachelor's degree in Russian language and his law degree there. Hart received a CPD certificate in Senior Executive Leadership from Georgetown University. He had numerous positions in law and education, including Attorney/Producer at the Federal Judicial Center, Legal Advisor to the Director of the Office of Human Rights in Washington, D.C., and Equal Employment Opportunity Investigator for the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. He also was an actor with the Washington, D.C. Arena Stage theatre company for six years.\n\nHart is CEO of Hart Learning Group LLC, a company which provides “innovative approaches to: Leadership Development, Effective Communications, Team Dynamics, and Organizational Change,” according to its Web site.\n\n"}
{"id": "40849298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849298", "title": "Macdonald v The Master", "text": "Macdonald v The Master\n\nIn Macdonald v The Master, an important case in the South African law of succession, the deceased had left four handwritten notes before he committed suicide. In one of the notes, there was an indication that his will was to be found on his computer at work in a particular file. The document on the computer was not signed by the deceased nor any witnesses; the Master rejected it.\n\nThe evidence before the court indicated that this computer was password-protected, and that the only recording of the password was written down, sealed, and locked away. Only the deceased would have had access to his computer at work; no one else could have typed the will and left it there. The court held that all three requirements in \"Ex Parte Maurice\" were present, as it was highly probable that the document was drafted by the deceased himself. The court declared the will valid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47154931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47154931", "title": "Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law", "text": "Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law (\"Max-Planck-Institut für ausländisches und internationales Privatrecht\", MPIPRIV) is a legal research institute located in Hamburg, Germany. It is operated by the Max Planck Society. Founded in 1949, it is the successor institution of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Foreign and International Private Law, which was founded in 1926. Since 1956 it is based in Hamburg's district of Rotherbaum. \n\n"}
{"id": "14116233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14116233", "title": "Michael I. Monus", "text": "Michael I. Monus\n\nMichael I. \"Mickey\" Monus (born 1947) is the former president of Phar-Mor, Inc., a defunct deep-discount drug and grocery retail chain that established a strong national presence before declaring bankruptcy in the early 1990s. Accused of perpetrating a $350 million fraud and embezzlement scheme, Monus was fired from the company and faced criminal charges. He was born in Youngstown, Ohio, which is where Phar-Mor was headquartered.\n\nMonus was born into a prominent family on the north side of Youngstown, Ohio. His father, Nathan H. Monus (1921–2016), was a prominent businessman and the estranged younger (and last surviving) brother of Mike Monus and Al B. Monus (1918–?). Mickey's mother, Frances Tamarkin Monus, was a housewife. Mickey attended the Rayen School and University School, a boys preparatory school in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He graduated from Babson College in Wellesley, Massachusetts.\n\nMonus returned to Youngstown, where he worked for a family business. His return coincided with the collapse of the community's core steel industry, and Monus became intrigued with the possibility of launching a retail enterprise whose operations stretched beyond the borders of his hometown.\n\nMonus partnered with David Shapira, to launch Phar-Mor, a \"deep discount\" drugstore which used a strategy of aggressive buying to provide customers with tremendous savings, if fewer selections. With startup money provided by Giant Eagle, Inc., the supermarket company in which Shapira's family members were large shareholders, the Phar-Mor discount drug chain became enormously successful. In 1988, the chain featured 100 stores, and Monus was described in the media as one of the nation's leading entrepreneurs. In an effort to revitalize his hometown's deteriorating retail district, Monus located the company's national headquarters in a remodeled former department store in downtown Youngstown. A notoriously tough negotiator, he was able to keep retail prices low; and by 1991, there were 200 Phar-Mor outlets across the country. Sam Walton once called Monus the only retailer that he feared, since he couldn't understand how Phar-Mor grew so rapidly in a short time. In addition, Monus and another Youngstown businessman, John Antonucci, were the original majority owners of Major League Baseball's Colorado Rockies; they'd even secured the financing for what would become Coors Field.\n\nAmid this success, however, Monus began to show signs of becoming overextended. PharMor stores expanded into new lines, including sportswear. Meanwhile, Monus' decision to sponsor the World Basketball League placed severe financial pressure on the corporation. It was speculated that Mickey Monus' father Nathan was somehow able to escape an indictment despite seemingly significant involvement in the massive fraud.\n\nIn July 1992, board members of Phar-Mor alleged that financial books stored at the corporate headquarters showed that the company had inflated its profits by huge margins. It would be considered one of the largest frauds in US history.\n\nCourt documents also indicated that Monus had embezzled about $10 million from the company, mainly to support his beleaguered World Basketball League and extravagant lifestyle. Monus' business partner David Shapira contacted federal agents, notified investors, and fired Monus, along with Phar-Mor's chief financial officer Patrick Finn. Unsecured claims against Monus totaled $4,104,121, while secured claims were calculated at $15,257,545.\n\nThe subsequent collapse of the discount chain not only marked the end of Monus' tenure as a leading entrepreneur; it disillusioned residents of his hometown, who were still coping with the loss of the community's steel-manufacturing sector.\n\nMonus and Antonucci were forced to sell their stake in the Colorado Rockies. The scandal around Monus forced a last-minute search for a new owner; it was nearly sold to Tampa investors before being bought by Jerry McMorris.\n\nMonus was eventually convicted of having embezzled $10 million. \n\nMonus was found guilty on the government's second attempt to try him; the first trial ended in a hung jury. He was later charged with jury tampering in the first trial, but was acquitted.\n\nHe was sentenced to 19½ years in federal prison and served 10 years. The sentence was reduced after Monus cooperated with federal authorities (FBI) in a case against another Youngstown fraudster, Richard Goldberg.\n\nMonus was also a major benefactor to Youngstown State University, serving as chairman of its board of trustees. It emerged that Ray Issac, the quarterback on the Youngstown State Penguin's 1991 national championship team, had received substantial benefits from Monus over his college career, including $10,000 in cash and the use of several cars. The NCAA made an inquiry after being tipped off to Monus' actions, but dropped it after a cursory internal investigation by Youngstown State. The true scope of the violations was only revealed in 1998, when Isaac admitted tampering with a juror in Monus' fraud trial. Youngstown State admitted to a lack of institutional control and docked itself some scholarships, but was allowed to keep its 1991 title since the statute of limitations had run out.\n"}
{"id": "29157120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29157120", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Spain)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Spain)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice () is a department of the Government of Spain. The ministry has its headquarters in Madrid. The present incumbent of that Ministry is Mrs. Dolores Delgado, an independent judge in a government of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party (PSOE).\n\nThe Ministry of Justice is a department of the General Administration responsible for:\n\nThe Ministry of Justice is organised in the following managerial bodies:\n\nFirst Notary of the Kingdom, in Spanish \"Notario Mayor del Reino\" is the title that holds the Minister of Justice as the person in charge of giving faith of the big events of the country like taking oath of high-ranking officials of the Kingdom. Among its most important tasks is the record of the swearing and promises of the King or Queen, the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Secretaries of State.\n\nLikewise, the First Notary of the Kingdom also intervenes in the civil acts of the Spanish royal family, raising the records of the births, marriages and deaths of their individuals, and authorizing their marital capitulations, powers, assignments and other provisions and contracts. Said protocols and other papers of the civil acts that concern the royal family are kept in the dependencies of the Directorate-General of Registries and Notaries.\n\nThe title is exercised ex officio, from its appointment until its cessation as Minister of Justice. This position does not confer any notarial authority nor does it have any relationship with the General Council of the Notariat (the nationwide organization who represents the notaries), whose highest authority is the President of the General.\n\nIn case of the absence of the minister himself and as public notary, the Director-General of the Registries and the Notary, who is the secretary of the First Notary's Office, acts as the Acting First Notary of the Kingdom.\n\nIf the Minister has no number, their title was Minister of Justice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57850203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57850203", "title": "Ministry of Justice and Human Rights (Chad)", "text": "Ministry of Justice and Human Rights (Chad)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Human Rights of Chad is structured in the following manner:\n\n\nIn keeping with the overseeing of human rights, the ministry manages the following judicial services:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3952254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3952254", "title": "Portuguese nationality law", "text": "Portuguese nationality law\n\nPortuguese nationality law is the legal set of rules that regulate access to Portuguese citizenship, which is acquired mainly through descent from a Portuguese parent, naturalisation in Portugal or marriage to a Portuguese citizen.\n\nIn some cases, children born in Portugal to non-citizens may be eligible for Portuguese citizenship. However this does not apply to children born to tourists or short-term visitors. Portuguese citizenship law is complicated by the existence of numerous former colonies and in some cases it is possible to claim Portuguese citizenship by connection with one of these jurisdictions. The most notable of these are Portuguese India (annexed by India in 1961), East Timor and Macau.\n\nOverall the present Portuguese nationality law, dated from 1981, privileges Jus sanguinis, while the precedent law, of 1959, was based on the principle of Jus soli. This shift occurred in 1975 and 1981, thus basically making it difficult to access naturalization not only to first generation migrants, but also to their children and grandchildren. Only very recently, in 2006, was this situation slightly changed, but still stressing Jus sanguinis.\n\nIn recent years, Portugal created the Golden Visa Program, which provides a way for non-EU residents to gain residency. \n\nPortuguese by origin are:\n\nA person aged 18 or over may be naturalised as a Portuguese citizen after 5 years legal residence. There is a requirement to have \"sufficient knowledge\" of the Portuguese language and \"effective links to the national community\". Children aged under 18 may acquire Portuguese citizenship by declaration when a parent is naturalised, and future children of such Portuguese nationals will be considered Portuguese citizens by birth. A naturalized Portuguese citizen only starts to be considered Portuguese once the naturalization process is done. Therefore, nationality acquired through naturalization \"is not\" transmitted to any possible descendants \"already\" adult by the time their parents' naturalizion process is finished.\nFrom 2006 until 2015, a person whose grandparent did not lose Portuguese citizenship was exempt from the residence requirement when applying for naturalisation.\n\nAs of July 29, 2015, those born outside Portugal who have at least one grandparent of Portuguese nationality, are granted Portuguese citizenship by extension immediately. The new registration procedure replaces the current provision of Article 6, no. 4--according to which a person who was born abroad and is a 2nd generation descendant of a citizen who has not lost his or her citizenship can acquire Portuguese citizenship by naturalization, without a residence requirement. The amendment still needs to be signed by the President before entering into law.\n\nA child adopted by a Portuguese citizen acquires Portuguese citizenship.\nChild should be under 18.\n\nA person married to a Portuguese citizen for at least five years may be able to acquire Portuguese citizenship by declaration. No formal residence period in Portugal is necessary however sufficient knowledge of the Portuguese language and effective ties with the Portuguese community are required.\n\nAn amendment to Portugal's 'Law on Nationality' allows descendants of Portuguese Jews who were expelled in the Portuguese Inquisition to become citizens if they 'belong to a Sephardic community of Portuguese origin with ties to Portugal.'\n\nThe Portuguese parliament passed legislation facilitating the naturalization of descendants of 16th-century Jews who fled because of religious persecution. On that day Portugal became the only country besides Israel enforcing a Jewish Law of Return. Two years later, Spain adopted a similar measure.\n\nThe motion, which was submitted by the Socialist and Center Right parties, was read on Thursday 11 April 2013 in parliament and approved unanimously on Friday 12 April 2013 as an amendment to Portugal's \"Law on Nationality\" (Decree-Law n.º 43/2013). Portuguese nationality law was further amended to this effect by Decree-Law n.º 30-A/2015, which came into effect on 1 March 2015.\n\nThe amended law allows descendants of Jews who were expelled in the 16th century to become citizens if they \"belong to a Sephardic community of Portuguese origin with ties to Portugal,\" according to José Oulman Carp, president of Lisbon's Jewish community. The website of the World Jewish Congress says that the Jewish Community of Lisbon is the organization that unites local communal groups of Lisbon and its environs, while the Jewish Community of Oporto is the organization that unites local communal groups of Oporto.\n\nApplicants must be able to prove Sephardic surnames in their family tree. Another factor is \"the language spoken at home,\" a reference which also applies to Ladino (Judeo-Portuguese and/or Judeo-Spanish). Furthermore, applicants must be able to prove an \"emotional and traditional connection with the former Portuguese Sephardic Community,\" commonly established through a letter from an orthodox rabbi confirming Jewish heritage. The amendment also says applicants need not reside in Portugal, an exception to the requirement of six years of consecutive residency in Portugal for any applicant for citizenship.\n\nFrom 2015 several hundred Turkish Jews who were able to prove that they were descended from Portuguese Jews expelled in 1497, have emigrated to Portugal and acquired citizenship. Nearly 1,800 descendants of Sephardic Jews acquired Portuguese nationality in 2017. By February 2018, 12,000 applications were in process, and 1,800 applicants had been granted Portuguese citizenship in 2017.\n\nPortugal allows dual citizenship. Hence, Portuguese citizens holding or acquiring a foreign citizenship do not lose Portuguese citizenship. Similarly, those becoming Portuguese citizens do not have to renounce their foreign citizenship.\n\nAlthough Portugal allows dual citizenship, some countries, such as Japan, do not. Thus, dual Portuguese–Japanese citizens, under Japanese nationality law, must declare to the Government of Japan whether they are going to keep their Japanese or Portuguese citizenship. A similar procedure had also been required in past years for dual Portuguese–South Korean citizens. However, since 2011, South Korea has allowed dual citizenship for some categories of persons. See the South Korean nationality law article for more information.\n\nBecause Portugal forms part of the European Union, Portuguese citizens are also citizens of the European Union under European Union law and thus enjoy rights of free movement and have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. When in a non-EU country where there is no Portuguese embassy, Portuguese citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country. Portuguese citizens can live and work in any country within the EU as a result of the right of free movement and residence granted in Article 21 of the EU Treaty.\n\nSpecial rules exist concerning the acquisition of Portuguese citizenship through connections with:\n\n\nIn the cases of Portugal's other former colonies, a time limit was set for people to automatically retain Portuguese citizenship or become citizens of the new country.\n\nFormerly known as the \"Estado da Índia\" this territory was an integral part of Portugal (as distinct from a colony) under Portugal's Constitution of 1910.\n\nOn 19 December 1961 India invaded and annexed the territory. The annexation was not recognised by Portugal until 1975, at which time Portugal re-established diplomatic relations with India. The recognition of Indian sovereignty over Portuguese India was backdated to 19 December 1961.\n\nPortuguese nationality law allows those who were Portuguese citizens connected with Portuguese India before 1961 to retain Portuguese nationality. Acquisition of Indian citizenship was determined to be non-voluntary at the time.\n\nOne practical obstacle is that the civil records of Portuguese India were abandoned by Portugal during the invasion and hence it can be difficult for descendants of pre-1961 Portuguese citizens from Portuguese India to prove their status.\n\nEast Timor was a territory of Portugal (Portuguese Timor) until its invasion by Indonesia in 1975, followed by annexation in 1976. Indonesian citizenship was conferred by Indonesia; however, while the Indonesian annexation was recognised by Australia and some other countries, Portugal did not recognise Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor.\n\nThe question of whether East Timorese were entitled to Portuguese citizenship was raised on numerous occasions in the Australian courts in the context of applications for refugee status in Australia by East Timorese. The Australian immigration authorities argued that if East Timorese were Portuguese citizens, they should be expected to seek protection there and not in Australia.\n\nEast Timor became an independent nation on 20 May 2002. However, owing to the lack of employment opportunities in their country and the becoming a member of Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries, many East Timorese have taken advantage of Portuguese citizenship to live and work in Portugal and other EU countries, such as the UK.\n\nThe former Portuguese territory of Macau became a Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on 20 December 1999.\n\nPortugal had extended its nationality laws to Macau and many inhabitants of Macau (either of Chinese & Portuguese blood) hold Portuguese citizenship on this basis. It is no longer possible to acquire Portuguese citizenship by connection with Macau before October 3, 1981 & after the 20 December 1999 transfer of sovereignty to China, except by birth or association with the territory previous to that date.\n\nHowever, those born after 20 December 1999 to Portuguese from Macau or Macanese that hold Portuguese citizenship, and/or to Chinese who hold Portuguese citizenship, are eligible to the citizenship themselves due to the Portuguese heritage law (Jus Sanguinis), except when born to Chinese and/or Portuguese parents who possess Chinese citizenship after December 20, 1999 or when Chinese and/or Portuguese couple w/ Portuguese citizenship renounced their nationality by naturalization after December 20 1999.\n\nAll Portuguese citizens are:\n\nAs Portuguese citizens are also European citizens, their rights include:\n\n\"More information: Citizenship of the European Union\"\n\nVisa requirements for Portuguese citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Portugal. As of February 2018, Portuguese citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 186 countries and territories, ranking the Portuguese passport 4th in terms of travel freedom (tied with American, Austrian, British, Dutch, Luxembourgian, and Norwegian passports) according to the Henley Passport Index.\n\nThe Portuguese nationality is ranked twelfth in Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Visa Restrictions Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers, in addition, to travel freedom on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well. \n\nAs of May 2015, under the newly approved Portuguese Nationality Act (Article 1, n.1, paragraph d) persons born abroad with, at least, one Portuguese ascendant in the second degree of the direct line who has not lost this citizenship, are Portuguese by origin, provided that they declare that they want to be Portuguese, that they have effective ties with the national community and, once these requirements are met, that are only required to register their birth in any Portuguese civil registry.\n\nIn Portuguese nationality law occurred in 2006 based on the proposals of deputy Neves Moreira, member of the Democratic Social Party (PSD). Due to these changes, a foreign-born person whose grandparent never lost Portuguese citizenship is now able to request naturalisation without the need to document 6 years residence in Portugal.\n\nBecause nationality acquired through naturalisation is not the same as nationality acquired through descent, members of the PSD proposed in 2009 another change in the law. This proposal would have given nationality by origin (descent) rather than by naturalisation to the grandchildren of Portuguese citizens but it was rejected. In 2013, members of the PSD tried to pass a similar measure again but due to the political and economic crisis that engulfed the country, no vote was ever taken on the measure.\n\n"}
{"id": "4708208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708208", "title": "Richard B. Morris", "text": "Richard B. Morris\n\nRichard Brandon Morris (July 24, 1904 – March 3, 1989) was an American historian best known for his pioneering work in colonial American legal history and the early history of American labor. In later years, he shifted his research interests to the constitutional, diplomatic, and political history of the American Revolution and the making of the United States Constitution.\n\nMorris attended high school at Towsend Harris Hall in New York City and received his B.A. degree from City College in 1924. He attended Columbia Law School and at the same time earned his Ph.D. degree in history at Columbia University, with Evarts Boutell Greene as his dissertation advisor. His dissertation, published by Columbia University Press as \"Studies in the History of American Law, with Special Reference to the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries\" (1930), still defines the research agenda for historians working on early American law, though at the time it attracted the bitter denunciations of such law-school practitioners of legal history as Julius Goebel, Jr., and Karl Llewellyn, both on the faculty of Columbia Law School. Morris taught at City College until in 1946 he was named to the faculty of Columbia University, after having published his massive and definitive \"Government and Labor in Early America\" (1946).\n\nEventually becoming Gouverneur Morris Professor of History at Columbia (he was no relation to the Revolutionary and founding father Gouverneur Morris), Richard B. Morris continued his pioneering research and writing. His Columbia University colleague Henry Steele Commager enlisted him as co-editor of the influential \"New American Nation\" series, a collaborative history of the United States published by Harper & Row. In 1966 he won the Bancroft Prize in History for his book on the diplomacy of the American Revolution, \"The Peacemakers: The Great Powers and American Independence\" (1965). This project, and the acquisition by Columbia University of the papers of John Jay, led him into one of his most productive scholarly ventures. Two volumes of an unfinished four-volume edition of the previously unpublished papers of John Jay followed (1976, 1980), taking Jay's life from his birth in 1745 to his return to the United States in 1784 to become the Confederation's Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Morris also quarried from his work on Jay a series of lectures in the Gaspar G. Bacon Lecture Series at Boston University, which in 1967 he published as \"John Jay, the Nation, and the Court,\" focusing on Jay as a committed nationalist in his work as a diplomat and as the first Chief Justice of the United States. Morris's Phelps Lectures at New York University resulted in his 1966 book \"The American Revolution Reconsidered,\" which he followed in 1970 with his \"The Emerging Nations and the American Revolution.\" In 1973, preparing for the impending bicentennial of the American Revolution, he published \"Seven Who Shaped Our Destiny: The Founding Fathers as Revolutionaries\", a collection of biographical essays about Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, James Madison, and Alexander Hamilton.\n\nMorris was opposed to the Columbia University protests of 1968, and the agenda of the radicals.\n\nIn 1976, following the general scholarly disappointment with the bicentennial of the American Revolution, Morris, then president of the American Historical Association, joined with James MacGregor Burns, then president of the American Political Science Association, to found Project '87—a joint effort to mark the bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution. Project '87 brought together historians, political scientists, and legal scholars and managed to salvage the Constitution's bicentennial as an occasion for the publication of groundbreaking new historical and legal scholarship on the Constitution and its origins. Morris's own contribution to the Bicentennial, and the culmination of his life's work as a historian, was \"The Forging of the Union, 1781–1789,\" his 1987 volume for the \"New American Nation\" series.\n\nIn 1930, Morris married Berenice Robinson, and their marriage lasted the rest of his life; she died in 1990. They had two sons, Jeffrey B. Morris, a constitutional and legal historian who teaches at the Touro Law School in New York, and Donald R. Morris, a teacher in Wyoming.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53070522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53070522", "title": "Rule of sevens", "text": "Rule of sevens\n\nThe rule of sevens, in English common law, establishes three age brackets for determining a young person's capacity to be responsible for torts and crimes. Children under the age of seven cannot be held to have capacity, while there is a rebuttable presumption that a minor aged 7 to 14 lacks capacity, and minors 14 and older are held to have the same capacity as adults. The rule of sevens is also used in determining capacity to give informed assent to participate in clinical trials.\n"}
{"id": "2004447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004447", "title": "Rylands v Fletcher", "text": "Rylands v Fletcher\n\nThis doctrine was further developed by English courts, and made an immediate impact on the law. Prior to \"Rylands\", English courts had not based their decisions in similar cases on strict liability, and had focused on the intention behind the actions rather than the nature of the actions themselves. In contrast, \"Rylands\" imposed strict liability on those found detrimental in such a fashion without having to prove a duty of care or negligence, which brought the law into line with that relating to public reservoirs and marked a significant doctrinal shift. Academics have criticised it, however, both for the economic damage such a doctrine could cause and for its limited applicability.\n\nThe tort of \"Rylands v Fletcher\" has been disclaimed in various jurisdictions, including Scotland, where it was described as \"a heresy that ought to be extirpated\", and Australia, where the High Court chose to destroy the doctrine in \"Burnie Port Authority v General Jones Pty Ltd\". Within England and Wales, however, \"Rylands\" remains valid law, although the decisions in \"Cambridge Water Co Ltd v Eastern Counties Leather plc\" and \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\" make it clear that it is no longer an independent tort, but instead a sub-tort of nuisance.\n\nIn 1860, Rylands paid contractors to build a reservoir on his land, intending that it should supply the Ainsworth Mill with water. Rylands played no active role in the construction, instead contracting out to a competent engineer. While building it, the contractors discovered a series of old coal shafts and passages under the land filled loosely with soil and debris, which joined up with Thomas Fletcher's adjoining mine. Rather than blocking these shafts up, the contractors left them. On 11 December 1860, shortly after being filled for the first time, Rylands' reservoir burst and flooded Fletcher's mine, the Red House Colliery, causing £937 worth of damage. Fletcher pumped the water out, but on 17 April 1861 his pump burst, and the mine again began to flood. At this point a mines inspector was brought in, and the sunken coal shafts were discovered. Fletcher brought a claim against Rylands and the landowner, Jehu Horrocks, on 4 November 1861.\n\nThe tort of trespass was inapplicable, as the flooding was deemed not to be \"direct and immediate\"; the tort of nuisance was rejected as this was a one-off event. The case was first heard by Mellor J and a special jury in September 1862 at the Liverpool Assizes; a court order led to an arbitrator from the Exchequer of Pleas being appointed in December 1864. The arbitrator decided that the contractors were liable for negligence, since they had known about the old mine shafts. Rylands, however, had no way of knowing about the mine shafts and so was not.\n\nThe case then went to the Exchequer of Pleas, where it was heard between 3 and 5 May 1865. It was heard on two points: first, whether the defendants were liable for the actions of the contractors and secondly, whether the defendants were liable for the damage regardless of their lack of negligence. They decided for the first point that the defendants were not liable, but were split on the second point. Channell B recused. Pollock CB and Martin B held that the defendants were not liable, as since a negligence claim could not be brought there was no valid case. Bramwell B, dissenting, argued that the claimant had the right to enjoy his land free of interference from water, and that as a result the defendant was guilty of trespass and the commissioning of a nuisance. He stated that \"the general law, wholly independent of contract\" should be that the defendants were liable, \"on the plain ground that the defendants have caused water to flow into the [claimant]'s mines, which but for their act would not have gone there...\"\n\nFletcher appealed to the Exchequer Chamber of six judges. The prior decision was overturned in his favour. Blackburn J spoke on behalf of all the judges and said that:\n\nBlackburn J's opinion relied on the liability for damages to land available through the tort of chattel trespass and the tort of nuisance, as well as the \"in scienter action\", injury by a domesticated animal known to have a disposition to injure. Rylands appealed.\n\nThe House of Lords dismissed the appeal and agreed with the determination for Fletcher. Lord Cairns, in speaking for the House of Lords, stated their agreement of the rule stated above by Justice Blackburn, but added a further limitation on liability, which is that the land from which the escape occurs must have been modified in a way which would be considered non-natural, unusual or inappropriate. The case was then heard by the House of Lords on 6 and 7 July 1868, with a judgment delivered on 17 July. Oddly the court consisted of only two judges, Lord Cairns and Lord Cranworth; Lord Colonsay failed to attend. The eventual judgment confirmed Blackburn's decision and general principle, adding a requirement that the use be \"non-natural\". The judgment of Lord Cairns LC was as follows.\n\nThe 'enjoyment of land' was primary in the reasons of Lord Cairns (above). This foundation stone is a recurring theme in the common law throughout the ages, to wit: \"It has been well said, that the use of the law consists, first, in preserving men's persons from death and violence; next, in securing to them the free enjoyment of their property.\" Tindal, CJ: Charge to the Grand Jury at Bristol on the occasion of the 1832 riots over the rejection in the House of Lords of the Reform Bill.\n\nEarly English common law had, in many instances, imposed liability on those who had caused harm regardless of wrongful intent or negligence. Trespass was considered a remedy for all tortious wrongs, and sometimes used as a synonym for torts generally. Over the centuries, however, judges focused more on the intent and negligence behind the actions than the nature of the actions themselves, leading to the development of negligence and nuisance and the further development of trespass. At the time of \"Rylands\", the previous case relied upon was \"Vaughan v Menlove\", decided in the Court of Common Pleas in 1837. The case had almost identical facts to \"Rylands\", but strict liability was never even considered. The case is instead thought of as one of the best attempts of early 19th century English judges to build up the law of negligence. The outcome of \"Rylands\" meant that judges would again impose strict liability on defendants who accumulated dangerous things on their land without any need to prove negligence or wrongful intent. The decision won support for bringing the law relating to private reservoirs up to standard with the law relating to public reservoirs, which contained similar statutory provisions thanks to a pair of private Acts of Parliament passed in 1853 and 1864.\n\nThe decision in \"Rylands\" initially faced little criticism within England and Wales, although many American scholars and judges of the time felt that judgment was a poor one. Doe CJ of the New Hampshire Supreme Court wrote that it \"put a clog upon natural and reasonably necessary uses of matter and tend to embarrass and obstruct much of the work which it seems to be a man's duty carefully to do\". The American interpretation was based primarily on the idea that it would cause economic harm. Further American criticism is based on the idea that it is poor law. Firstly, they argue, it is not trespass, since the damage is not direct, and secondly, it is not a nuisance, because there is no continuous action. Glofcheski, writing in the \"Hong Kong Law Journal\", notes that \"the doctrine has not flourished... a tort imposing strict liability should be closely interpreted and circumspectly applied\". It has been argued that the decision was never entirely accepted by the judiciary as a whole, and that it is difficult to justify. This is for two reasons; firstly, it is a case of very limited applicability, and it has been suggested that it be folded into a general principle of strict liability for \"ultra-hazardous\" activities. Secondly, subsequent case law in England and Wales, particularly in \"Rickards v Lothian\", has undermined the \"non-natural use\" element by introducing a cost/benefit analysis which severely limits the decision's usefulness.\n\nThe first article in the 1960 Canadian Bill of Rights states that \"the right of the individual to life, liberty, security of the person and enjoyment of property, and the right not to be deprived thereof except by due process of law\" is recognised. However it is difficult to adjudicate on this Bill, especially as the provinces have priority over property rights. \nA difficulty is encountered with the definition of \"property\", as remarked by Johansen, which may well be the reason why the matter remains for interpretation by precedent. The 1974 test case for the Bill of Rights, Attorney General of Canada v. Lavell, provided an impetus for the 1982 Charter of Rights, which specifically excludes the \"enjoyment of property\" for reasons described in the Constitutional history of Canada page. Fridman on Torts in Canada has helpful material.\n\nIn Ontario, a common law province, \"Rylands\" was upheld by a lower court in Smith v. Inco Ltd. a case alleging that a factory in Port Colborne, Ontario had contaminated adjacent lands with nickel. A subsequent Ontario Court of Appeal ruling in 2010 found that the plaintiff had not provided sufficient evidence of economic harm, raising the legal burden of proof but not invalidating \"Rylands\" as precedent law. However, it has been said that the Court of Appeal erred in law in their adjudication over the words \"non-natural\". In April 2012, the Supreme Court of Canada chose not to hear the appeal.\n\nMineral rights in the subsurface seem to be preferred over the landowner's rights by the Mineral Tenure Act or the Petroleum and Natural Gas Act in British Columbia (also a common law province) so that recourse to Rylands is quite limited, as case law has developed over liability \"to compensate the owner of a surface area for loss or damage caused by the entry, occupation or use of that area\" (MTA) and \"compensation for nuisance and disturbance from the entry, occupation or use\" (PNGA). The compensation for \"entry, use and occupation of the Property\" seems not to \"exceed the entire [taxable] value of the land\" as written in the registry. This means in effect that the relocation costs (of, say, a farming operation, or an abode) or emotional damage are likely not payable by the expropriator. Even municipalities cannot exclude miners. The powers of an arbitrator include compensation for land, timber and time, but expressly do not include watershed, health and welfare, or lost cattle. Miners avoid environmental review; the province has no discretion to refuse mineral leases; miners need not notify landowners of transactions; the province can exempt mines from review when mining commences; and landowners do not have rights to refuse to negotiate.\n\nThe impact of Rylands v Fletcher in Quebec law, which is based for historical reasons on the civil code, was evaluated by the Supreme Court of Canada in the 1916 case of Vandry et al. v. Quebec Railway, Light, Heat and Power Co. The SCC found that a section in the civil code had ample scope to support the liability of the Quebec Power Co.\n\nThe rule in \"Rylands v Fletcher\" gives support to \"Ernst v. EnCana Corporation, 2013 ABQB 537\".\n\nThe party that can be sued in a \"Rylands\" claim is an owner or occupier of land, along with anyone who stores or collects the dangerous material, as in \"Rainham Chemical Works Ltd v Belvedere Fish Guano Co Ltd\". The party suing was initially one with an interest in land, but \"Perry v Kendricks Transport Ltd\" confirmed that an interest in land was not necessary to bring a claim. Historically, personal injury claims have been allowed, as in \"Hale v Jennings\". More recent cases, however, such as the House of Lords decision in \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\", have confirmed that \"Rylands\" is \"a remedy for damage to land or interests in land. It must...follow that damages for personal injuries are not recoverable under the rule\". \n\nIn \"Cambridge Water\" Lord Goff opined that the rule in \"Rylands\" should not further be developed, and that rather than being an independent tort it should be instead considered a sub-tort of nuisance. Statutory provisions, such as the Environmental Protection Act 1990, were a more modern and appropriate way of addressing environmental problems which would previously have been covered by \"Rylands\". Subsequently, \"Transco\" disapproved of the Australian decision in \"Burnie Port Authority v General Jones Pty Ltd\" to absorb \"Rylands\" into the general law of negligence, deciding that \"Rylands\" should continue to exist but, as Lord Bingham said, as a \"sub-species of nuisance...while insisting upon its essential nature and purpose; and...restate it so as to achieve as much certainty and clarity as is attainable\". It is now a sub-tort, rather than an independent tort; they have confirmed that it will be allowed to remain.\n\nDonal Nolan has argued that to consider \"Rylands\" as part of private nuisance is unsound. Private nuisance requires the claimant to have an interest in land, while \"Rylands\" does not; although exceptions to this rule have occasionally been made in private nuisance, in \"Hunter v Canary Wharf Ltd\", the House of Lords ruled that to make exceptions would transform nuisance from a tort against land to a tort against the person, and should not be permitted. John Murphy, Professor of Common Law at the University of Manchester, agrees with Nolan, and makes the additional point that nuisance is focused on a loss of enjoyment to land, not physical damage as \"Rylands\" is. It has also been concerned that the reasonable use test, which appears in nuisance, is not applicable to cases brought under \"Rylands\".\n\nThe first requirement under \"Rylands\" is that the defendant \"for his own purposes brings onto land and collects and keeps there\". In \"Rylands\", this was the keeping of water in a reservoir; other cases in England and Wales have illustrated what sort of material is considered. In \"British Celanese v AH Hunt\", the accumulation was of metal foil strips. \"For his own purpose\" is not understood to be \"for his benefit\", although that was what Blackburn was referring to at the time; in \"Smeaton v Ilford Corp\", \"Rylands\" was held to apply to a local authority accumulating sewage on its land, although there was no benefit to the local authority from doing this.\n\nThe next element of \"Rylands\" is that the thing be something \"likely to do mischief if it escapes\". Before \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\" this did not have to be a dangerous item (see below); the risk was instead in its behaviour if it escapes. In \"Rylands\" the \"thing\" was water. Other examples are fire, as in \"Jones v Festiniog Railway\", gas, as in \"Batchellor v Tunbridge Wells Gas Co\", fumes, as in \"West v Bristol Tramways Co\", and electricity, as in \"Hillier v Air Ministry\". The extent of the \"thing\"'s accumulation can also be considered, as in \"Mason v Levy\", where it was not just the type of thing kept but the sheer amount which created the danger. It is essential for a \"Rylands\" claim that there be an escape of a dangerous thing \"from a place where the defendant has occupation of or control over land to a place which is outside his occupation or control\". In \"Read v J Lyons & Co Ltd\", an explosion in a munitions factory killed an inspector on the property. \"Rylands\" was held not to apply, because there was no escape. The dangerous thing that escapes does not always have to be the thing which was accumulated, but there must be a causal link. In \"Miles v Forest Rock Granite Co (Leicestershire) Ltd\", explosives stored on the defendant's land led to the escape of rocks in a blast, and the defendant was found liable.\n\nIn \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\", Lord Bingham stated \"obiter\" that \"I do not think the mischief or danger test should be at all easily satisfied. It must be shown that the defendant has done something which he recognised, or judged by the standards appropriate at the relevant place and time, he ought reasonably to have recognised, as giving rise to an exceptionally high risk of danger or mischief if there should be an escape, however unlikely an escape may have been thought to be.\"\n\nThe requirement of \"non-natural use\", which was created when the case went to the House of Lords, was described by Lord Moulton, in \"Rickards v Lothian\", as \"some special use bringing with it increased danger to others\". Because the idea of something being \"non-natural\" is a subjective one, the interpretation of this principle has varied over the years. In \"Musgrove v Pandelis\", a car filled with petrol was considered \"non-natural\", while in \"Rainham Chemical Works Ltd v Belvedere Fish Guano Co Ltd\", so was the operation of a munitions factory during war-time. There is no single concrete test to define what is \"non-natural\", for reasons given by Lord Bingham in \"Transco plc v Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council\"; \"[non-natural use] is not a test to be inflexibly applied: a use may be extraordinary and unusual at one time or in one place but not so at another time or in another place...I also doubt whether a test of reasonable user is helpful, since a user may well be quite out of the ordinary but not unreasonable\"...\n\nThere are several defences in England and Wales to a claim under \"Rylands v Fletcher\"; act of an unknown third party, contributory negligence, consent and statutory authority. An act of an unknown third party will absolve the defendant of liability, as in \"Perry v Kendricks Transport Ltd\". In \"Northwestern Utilities Ltd v London Guarantee and Accident Co Ltd\", the principle was established that if a claimant knows of the unknown third party and their actions, the defendant is additionally likely to be able to deny liability. As \"Rylands\" requires strict liability, any contributory negligence voids most of the claim. Initially it was sufficient to offset the case itself; with the Law Reform (Contributory Negligence) Act 1945, courts instead apportion damages, taking into account how much of the harm was contributed by the claimant. Nevertheless, contributory negligence is still a viable partial defence to a \"Rylands\" claim. Other valid defences are where the claimant has consented, expressly or impliedly, to the accumulation of the \"thing\", and where there is statutory authority for the accumulation.\n\nThe principles of \"Rylands v Fletcher\" were initially applied in Scots law, first in the case of \"Mackintosh v Mackintosh\", where a fire spreading from the defendant's land to the claimant's land caused property damage. Scots lawyers and judges applied \"Rylands\" differently from their English counterparts, however. While the rule is interpreted in England and Wales as being distinct from negligence and the rules of duty of care and liability applied there, the principle in Scotland was that \"negligence is still the ground of liability. The only difference is that in such cases the proprietor is doing something upon his property which is in its nature dangerous and not necessary (or usual?) in the ordinary management of the particular kind of property, and he is therefore bound to observe a higher degree of diligence to prevent injury to his neighbour\". The use of \"Rylands\" in Scots law, which was started in \"Mackintosh\", finally came to an end in \"RHM Bakeries v Strathclyde Regional Council\". Lord Fraser, as part of his judgment, stated that the idea of strict liability that was brought into play by \"Rylands\" was not a part of Scots law, and the idea that it ever had been valid was \"a heresy that ought to be extirpated\".\n\nWithin the United States, there are many situations in which strict liability is applied to actions, and \"Rylands\" is commonly cited as the origin of that rule (particularly where strict liability is based on the defendant's \"ultrahazardous activity\"); it was first applied in \"Ball v. Nye\", by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. The Supreme Court of Minnesota also adopted it in \"Cahill v. Eastman\", while the highest courts of New York, New Hampshire and New Jersey all rejected the principle, in \"Losee v. Buchanan\", \"Brown v. Collins\", and \"Marshall v. Welwood\" respectively. The Supreme Court of New Jersey, however, reversed \"Welwood\" in 1983 in \"Department of Environmental Protection v. Ventron Corp\". Many courts in the United States have attempted to use \"Rylands\" to justify absolute liability, which it was never intended to do; while absolute liability is where no defence is applicable, in \"Rylands\" itself Lord Cairns accepted that there were some situations where the case should not be applied.\n\nIn Australia, the principles of \"Rylands v Fletcher\" were \"killed off\" by the High Court of Australia in \"Burnie Port Authority v General Jones Pty Ltd\". The High Court's view was that the \"Rylands\" principles \"should now been seen ... as absorbed by the principles of ordinary negligence, and not as an independent principle of strict liability\". Contrasting this, the principles have escaped destruction in Hong Kong, where the courts are yet to follow the examples set by Australia and England and Wales, and \"Rylands\" remains an independent tort.\n\nThe rule of strict liability famously laid down by Blackburn J., in Rylands v. Fletcher, proved to be rather ineffective with the passage of time to counter the dangerous use of one’s property or an industry that produced substances or wastes detrimental to public health. The pre-requirements essential for establishing a liability under the principle of strict liability viz., the non-natural use of land, use of a dangerous thing, and the element of escape provided substantial loopholes to the enterprises to escape liability under the Rylands v. Fletcher rule. Moreover, the exceptions provided within the rule (and restated by the Supreme Court of India in MC Mehta v. Union of India) afford ample opportunity to the commercial enterprises to escape liability.\n\nThe Supreme Court of India in MC Mehta v. Union of India evolved a more stringent rule of strict liability than the Rylands v. Fletcher rule. In this case, which involved the leakage of and the harm caused by Oleum gas from one of the units of Shriram industries in Delhi, the court held that keeping in mind the needs and demands of a modern society with highly advanced scientific knowledge and technology where for the sake of development programme, it was necessary to carry out inherently dangerous or hazardous industry, a new rule had to be laid down to adequately deal with the problems arising in a highly industrialised economy. This new rule had to be based on the English rule of strict liability, but had to be even more stringent, as a result of which no firm carrying out an inherently dangerous or hazardous activity might escape from liability, irrespective of whether there was any negligence involved on the part of the firm or not. \n\nThe court also pointed out that the duty owed by such an enterprise to the society is “absolute and non-delegable” and that the enterprise cannot escape liability by showing that it had taken all reasonable care and there was no negligence on its part. The bases of the new rule as indicated by the Supreme Court are two:\n\n1) If an enterprise is permitted to carry on any hazardous or inherently dangerous activity for its profit, the law must presume that such permission is conditional on the enterprise absorbing the cost of any accident (including indemnification of all those who suffer harm in the accident) arising on account of such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity as an appropriate item of its overheads; and\n\n2) The enterprise alone has the resource to discover and guard against hazards or danger and to provide warning against potential hazards.\n\nThe rule in Rylands v. Fletcher requires non-natural use of land by the defendant and escape of the thing from his land, which causes damage. But the rule in MC Mehta v. Union of India is not dependent upon any such condition. The necessary requirements for applicability of the new rule of absolute liability are that the defendant is engaged in hazardous or inherently dangerous activity and that harm results to anyone on account of an accident in the operation of such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity.\n\nThe rule in Rylands v. Fletcher will not cover cases of harm to persons within the premises where the inherently dangerous activity is carried out, for the rule requires escape of the thing which causes harm from the premises. The new rule makes no distinction between the persons within the premises where the enterprise is operating and persons outside the premises because escape of the thing causing harm from the premises is not a necessary condition for the applicability of the rule. Further, the rule in Rylands v. Fletcher, though strict in the sense that it is not dependent on any negligence on the part of the defendant and in this respect similar to the new rule, is not absolute as it is subject to many exceptions but the new rule in Mehta’s case is not only strict but absolute and is subject to no exception.\n\nAnother important point of distinction between the two rules is in the matter of award of damages. Damages awardable where the rule in Rylands v. Fletcher applies will be ordinary or compensatory; but in cases where the rule applicable is the one laid down in MC Mehta’s case the court can allow exemplary damages, and the bigger and more prosperous the enterprise, the greater can be the amount of compensation payable by it. A small bump in the road was encountered in Charan Lal Sahu v. Union of India and doubts were expressed as to the quantum of damages payable. But the Supreme Court set all doubts aside in another landmark decision in the case of Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India where, it was held that the rule laid down in Mehta’s case was not obiter and was appropriate and suited to the conditions prevailing in the country. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "41454032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41454032", "title": "Saab Automobile bankruptcy", "text": "Saab Automobile bankruptcy\n\nSaab Automobile was sold to Spyker Cars N.V. in 2010 after a deal between Spyker and then-current owner General Motors. After struggling to avoid insolvency throughout 2011, the company petitioned for bankruptcy following the failure of a Chinese consortium to complete a purchase of the company; the purchase had been blocked by former owner GM, which opposed the transfer of technology and production rights to a Chinese company. In 2012, Spyker filed a lawsuit against GM asking for US$3 billion in damages after GM had attempted to block the deals between Spyker and Chinese automaker Youngman, who were investing in Saab Automobile. Consequently, Saab was forced to file bankruptcy in 2012. Spyker's claim was dismissed in June 2013.\n\nOn 26 January 2010, General Motors confirmed that Spyker and GM had come to an agreement allowing Spyker to purchase Saab, subject to regulatory and government approval; the sale was completed on February 23, 2010. General Motors would continue to supply Saab with engines and transmissions, and also completed vehicles in the shape of the new Saab 9-4x from GM's Mexican factory. The deal included a loan from the European Investment Bank, guaranteed by the Swedish government. It comprised US$74m in cash up front, payable to GM by July 2010, and shares in Spyker in the amount of US$320m.\n\nSaab announced that it was going to build its US headquarters in Royal Oak, Michigan. A new Saab 9-3 was confirmed for 2012, while production restarted at the Saab plant in Sweden in March 2010. Victor Muller, CEO and founder of Spyker Cars stated in an interview that the take-over was financed solely by Vladimir Antonov with the knowledge of General Motors.\n\nIn July, the company said it expected to sell between 50,000 to 55,000 vehicles in 2010. As part of its expansion programme Saab announced plans to return to China after General Motors withdrew the brand from the Chinese market in 2008 due to the global financial meltdown, Saab planned to sell between 2,000 and 5,000 cars initially and should the reception of the vehicle go well, it planned to move production to China as well, as the deal would have seen 10 dealerships open. The deal was to be signed with China Automobile Trading Co. Ltd.\n\nIn October, the company revised its production target for the year to 30,000 to 35,000 vehicles from 45,000 vehicles, this was down to the fact that it needed more time to recover from plant shutdown for two months at the beginning of the year and reverse liquidation proceedings.\nIt was reported that it was the second time forecast was cut in less than three months. Eventually Saab sold 31,696 cars in 2010.\n\nOn February 25, Spyker Cars N.V. announced that it had agreed to sell the sports car arm to focus on Saab. Spyker intended to change its name, in May, to include the Saab name.\n\nAt the beginning of April several suppliers halted shipment of components to the Trollhättan assembly plant because of unpaid invoices. As a result Saab had to stop production on April 5.\n\nOn 3 May, Spyker Cars reached an agreement with Chinese automaker Hawtai Motor to obtain emergency funding for Saab, aiming to restart production within a week. On May 12, the deal with Hawtai collapsed when it failed to get the necessary approvals. Spyker was still hopeful that a deal could be made with Hawtai. Great Wall Motor, another Chinese car maker, was also rumoured to be in talks with Spyker about investing; however, this was denied by Great Wall on May 13.\n\nOn May 16, Spyker announced that it had signed a memorandum of understanding with China's Pang Da Automobile Trade Co. (Pang Da) that would give Saab the financing needed to restart production, and give Pang Da an equity stake in Spyker.\n\nOn June 8, Saab said it had stopped production due to an insufficient supply of parts. This occurred only two weeks after resuming production following a seven-week hiatus. Production was due to start again on August 9.\n\nOn June 23, Saab announced that it was unable to pay June salaries to the entire workforce of 3,800 due to lack of funding. The trade union IF Metall gave Saab seven days to pay the salaries to their employees; otherwise, IF Metall threatened to force a liquidation of the company. On June 29, Saab employees were paid.\n\nIn June, China Youngman Automobile Group (Youngman) and Pang Da announced their intention to buy 54% of Saab for €245 million. They also announced that they would finance three new models, Saab 9-1, Saab 9-6 and Saab 9-7.\n\nOn July 26, Saab announced that it was unable to pay July salaries to 1,600 white-collar workers. The company was also unable to verify when the salaries would be paid. However, the entire workforce of blue-collar workers were paid on July 25.\n\nOn July 27, it was reported that Bahama-based Gemini Fund would ensure employee salaries did not pay out to Saab, because of the uncertainty arising in securities that would protect the payment. On the same day it was also confirmed by Russian businessman Vladimir Antonov's Swedish representative Lars Carlström that Antonov has close ties to the fund. On July 28, the trade union Unionen announced that if Saab did not pay the white-collar workers within two weeks, Unionen will force the company into bankruptcy. On the same day, European Investment Bank (EIB) announced it had rejected the request from Vladimir Antonov to become part-owner of Saab. In response to that decision, the director general of Swedish National Debt Office, Bo Lundgren, severely criticised the EIB for its treatment of Antonov in recent months. On August 5, Saab paid the salaries to the white-collar workers through equity issuance where the Gemini Fund bought 5m shares in Saab.\n\nOn August 17, the Swedish Enforcement Administration (SEA) started a distraint process of Saab as a result of the company not settling its debts.\n\nOn August 19, it was confirmed that SEA had more than 90 cases with claims amounting to 169 million SEK ($25.5 million/€18.4 million) against Saab, of which 22 were in the distraint phase. On the same day, the SEA found an account at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, which they hoped contained at least SEK5.1 million ($0.8 million/€0.555 million) which would be used to pay off Saabs debt to Kongsberg Automotive.\n\nOn August 23, Saab spokesperson, Gunilla Gustav, announced there was a chance the August salaries may not be paid because of lack of funding. One reason is that Saab had not received the money it was promised. The president of Unionen, Cecilia Fahlberg, was highly critical of unpaid salaries becoming an issue for the third time during the summer, and said the union would restart bankruptcy proceedings unless the salaries were paid. As a result of the announcement, shares of Saabs parent company, Swedish Automobiles, fell by 20%.\n\nOn August 25, it was confirmed that the August salaries had not been paid to the blue-collar employees, and most likely its white-collar workers also, whose salaries were rumoured to be paid on August 26. On the same day, SEA announced that it had foreclosed on about SEK50 million (US$7.9 million/€5.45 million) and it was entitled to the money from the company's payroll account if it didn't not find the remainder earlier. Saab had to have approximately SEK100 million (US$15.8 million/€10.9 million) each month in the payroll account in order to remunerate its entire workforce.\n\nOn August 26, Swedish Automobile announced that they had pushed back the interim report until the following week (week 35). On the same day it was reported that Saab was preparing an application for reconstruction of the company. Saab was lacking the appropriate funds to start production or pay salaries to its employees and debts to its subcontractors.\n\nOn August 31, after a five-day delay, Saab released its interim report which announced a loss of €201.5 million with revenues of €359 million after the first six months. It was also reported that Saab was preparing an application for reconstruction of the company. Again this is as a result of insufficient funds preventing the start of production, payment of employee salaries, and payment of subcontractor debts. In 2011 Saabs Trollhättan plant ended production.\n\nOn September 7, Saab Automobile petitioned Swedish court for a voluntary reconstruction. The aim was to protect the company from creditor's claims until Chinese government approval could be completed for a €245 million deal agreed in June 2011 with Pang Da and Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile (Zhejiang Youngman). The following day, the Swedish courts rejected Saabs reconstruction petition, expressing doubt that the automaker could secure the funding necessary to continue.\n\nOn September 12, Saab announced that it had signed a technology license agreement worth €70 million with Zhejiang Youngman. On the same day, it became known that the trade unions Unionen and Swedish Organization for Managers (Ledarna) submitted the application requesting that Saab be put into liquidation. Saab Automobile confirmed through a press release that the trade unions had petitioned for bankruptcy supervision of the company.\n\nOn September 22, Saab Automobile AB and its subsidiaries Saab Automobile Powertrain AB and Saab Automobile Tools AB (collectively Saab Automobile) received approval for their proposal for voluntary reorganization from the Court of Appeal in Gothenburg, Sweden.\n\nOn 28 October, media reports stated that the Chinese carmaker Youngman and the Chinese automotive retailer Pang Da had agreed to a joint US$140 million takeover of Saab Automobile and its UK dealer network unit from Swedish Automobile, with Youngman and Pang Da taking 60 and 40 percent stakes respectively.\n\nOn 6 December, GM announced that it would not continue its licenses to GM patents and technology to Saab if the company had been sold to Pang Da and Zhejiang Youngman, stating that the new owner's use of the technology is not in the best interest of GM investors. This was somewhat ironic since most of the patents in question were Saabs in origin but surrendered to GM's ownership back in 2000. Because of this, Saab started working on a new proposal which would not change the original ownership structure and would not include a Chinese partner as an owner of the company, but instead as a 50% owner of a new daughter company.\n\nOn 19 December 2011 with no alternatives left after GM continued to block any form of involvement with a Chinese partner, Saab officially filed for bankruptcy after a three-year fight for survival. Under Sweden's bankruptcy laws, a party that files for bankruptcy can be bought out of bankruptcy. Therefore, this was not the end of Saab.\n\nIn the aftermath, both Saab’s CEO Victor Muller and Saab’s manager of government relations, Anna Petre, stated that the original deal with Pang Da and Youngman that would have given the two Chinese companies 54% of Saab’s parent company, Swedish Automobile (SWAN), was cleared with GM. The turbulence created by Saab’s administrator, Guy Lofalk, leading the Chinese to believe they could take a 100% ownership, and the subsequent bid for 100% of SWAN, supposedly severely hurt the relationship with GM. Muller blamed Guy Lofalk for the collapse of the talks. He claimed that Lofalk had led the Chinese investors to believe they could become sole owners of the company. Muller also said he [Lofalk] knew that sole ownership was impossible. GM's had strong concerns about licenses. \"Until this problem arose the relationship with GM was excellent,\" Muller said.\n\nThere is some doubt as to the validity of both Muller and Petre's opinions. Both General Motors and Guy Lofalk have denied their claims. General Motors also refute Mullers statements that they approved his sale of Saab to Chinese parties.\n\nSince 26 January 2010 Saab was managed by the board, with Victor Muller presiding.\n\nVictor Muller, as CEO of Spyker cars, is now suing General Motors and claims it is accountable for the bankruptcy of Saab. Muller said: \"Ever since we were forced to file for Saab Automobile’s bankruptcy in December of last year, we have worked relentlessly on the preparation for this lawsuit which seeks to compensate Spyker and Saab for the massive damages we have incurred as a result of GM’s unlawful actions\". Obviously Muller changed his opinion and now blames General Motors instead of Guy Lofalk. In June 2013 the claim was dismissed by a US federal judge.\n\nOn 29 January 2012 the receivers handling Saab’s bankruptcy stated that discussions were being held with four or five interested parties with the intention of buying Saab out of bankruptcy. Parties that publicly showed interest were China's Youngman, Indian Mahindra and Mahindra and the Turkish private equity firm Brightwell Holdings. On 14 February 2012 the receivers of the bankruptcy let the press know that there were now six or seven interested parties to buy Saab as a whole and restart production of Saab vehicles and that they aimed to have a final candidate before the end of February. On March 6, 2012, three companies placed bids for complete Saab Automobile buy out; Mahindra and Mahindra and Youngman with bids in the region of US$300m-400m, and Tata Motors with an alleged bid of US$350m, which was later denied.\n\nOn April 10, 2012, many documents regarding the bankruptcy became official and the deadline for final bids of Saab Automobile was reached. Since the first reconstruction in 2009, Saab had gathered a debt of approximately €1.3 billion. The total value of all assets was found to be approximately €360m. The potential sale of Saab would therefore mean that many with claims on Saab Automobile would not be paid. GM’s claim of approximately €220m would be prioritized because it consisted of preference shares. The handful of previous interested parties in buying Saab Automobile out of bankruptcy were confirmed to have handed in final bids and were all intending to produce Saab cars in Trollhättan in one form or another. The receivers hoped to have a deal done before summer. The receivers also found that the sale of the Saab Automobile property in the summer of 2011 may not have been legitimate and the property may have to be returned to Saab.\n\nOn 16 April 2012, a meeting on Saab’s bankruptcy was held at the District Court of Vänersborg. The official receivers in charge of the Saab liquidation valued the assets at US$500m and the debt at US$2,000m. After subtracting the value of the assets, Saab leaves a debt of US$1,500m.\n\nOn 29 May 2012, Saab AB (aerospace and defence company) CEO Håkan Buskhe spoke to the media for the first time in an interview regarding the bankruptcy of Saab Automobile. Saab AB has the rights to the name Saab Automobile and has the possibility to block the use of the name for any potential buyer of Saab Automobile. Buskhe said that as long as any potential buyer would continue production and development in Trollhättan Saab AB would grant the use of the name but that it will block any deal with a buyer who had the intent of taking production and development outside Sweden. It was also mentioned that Saab AB has strategic partnerships with one of the interested parties in buying Saab Automobile, Indian Mahindra, regarding aerospace and defence and that Saab AB is trying to sell its Jas 39 Gripen fighter jet to India. However, Buskhe did not want to comment on Mahindra's offer on Saab Automobile.\n\nOn 6 August 2012, Spyker, represented by the law firm Patton Boggs filed a lawsuit against General Motors in the United States District Court of the Eastern District of Michigan claiming US$3 billion in damages for the actions GM took in the fall of 2011 to stop the various proposed deals between Spyker and Youngman concerning Saab Automobile where Youngman claimed to be ready to invest several billion dollars in Saab Automobile to guarantee its future. More precisely, under the Automotive Technology License Agreement (ATLA) between GM Global Technology Operations Inc (GTO) and Saab, GM refused licensing of the platforms and technology in Saab cars if any Chinese party would be involved in Saabs ownership structure. To solve this issue, Spyker and Youngman came up with a deal where Youngman would provide Saab with a loan of €200 million which would be converted into an equity interest in Saab only after Saab ceased using GM technology in its vehicles. Despite this, GM maintained that it would still refuse licensing of platforms and technology needed for production of Saab cars in Trollhättan and also threatened to cease 9-4X production at GM's plant in Mexico, should the deal go through. Consequently, the deal finally collapsed and Saab was forced to file for bankruptcy. According to Spyker, the actions taken by GM were not legal. Since Saab had been in receivership since the bankruptcy, and would be until the deal with Nevs was closed, Spyker and the receivers of Saab Automobile had entered into an agreement where Spyker would bear the costs of the litigation in exchange for 90% of the claim if the case is successful.\n\nIn June 2013, the district court dismissed the lawsuit, ruling that General Motors was within its rights to block the sale. Saab was purchased by National Electric Vehicle Sweden in June 2012, with production of the Saab 9-3 resuming in December 2013.\n\nA swedish book, Saabs sista strid, was published on August 28, 2014. The book chronicles Saab Automobile under Spyker Cars and the road to bankruptcy. The author is swedish financial journalist Jens B Nordström.\n\n"}
{"id": "7720337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720337", "title": "State of World Liberty Index", "text": "State of World Liberty Index\n\nThe State of World Liberty Index was a ranking of countries according to the degree of economic and personal freedoms that their citizens enjoy. It was a compilation of several similar indices created by other organizations. The index's original author Nick Wilson defined freedom as \"the ability for the individual to live their lives as they choose, as long as they do not infringe on the rights of others to do the same.\" \n\nOnly one report (the 2006 State of World Liberty Index, released 12 August 2006) was produced by the State of World Liberty Project and the original website is now defunct. However, Patrick Rhamey, professor in the Department of International Studies at the Virginia Military Institute , has updated the rankings through 2018 using the same concept, with some adjustments to the original method .\n\nThe index has been cited by human rights organisations, governments, pro-democracy groups, news organisations, and others.\n\nThe 2006 State of World Liberty Index was created by combining the rankings of four other indexes of world liberty into one: the \"2005 Economic Freedom of the World\" Index (Fraser Institute/Cato Institute), the \"2006 Index of Economic Freedom\" (The Heritage Foundation/Wall Street Journal), the \"2005 Freedom in the World\" index (Freedom House), and the \"2005 Press Freedom Index\" (Reporters Without Borders). \n\nThese reports are used to score countries in three categories: individual freedom, economic freedom, and government size and taxation. These three scores are then averaged to give a country's overall score.\n\nIn the 2006 index, Estonia was ranked most free overall, with a score of 85.25; North Korea was last with a score of 6.80. Hong Kong was ranked most free in both the economic liberty category and the government size and taxation category, but a personal freedom score of only 61.74 greatly reduced its overall ranking. \n\nThirty-five countries (22%) scored above 99 in the individual freedom category.\n\nThe 2018 Rankings reproduce the original ranking concept using the same data sources, albeit adjusting the weighting of data to best capture the original intent of measuring \"the ability of the individual to live their lives as they choose.\" Measures are also standardized appropriately given the different scales used across indices and the government burden category was condensed into the broader indicator of economic freedom. \n\nIn the 2018 index, New Zealand is ranked most free overall, while North Korea is last. Hong Kong was ranked most free in economic liberty, while Norway and Sweden were ranked most free in the social liberty category.\n"}
{"id": "2741837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741837", "title": "Statute of the Jewry", "text": "Statute of the Jewry\n\nThe Statute of the Jewry was a statute issued by Edward I of England in 1275. It placed a number of restrictions on Jews of England, most notably outlawing the practice of usury.\n\nSince the time of the Norman conquest, Jews had been filling a small but vital role in the English economy. Usury by Christians was banned by the Catholic Church at the time, but Jews were permitted to act as moneylenders and bankers. That position enabled some Jews to amass tremendous wealth, but also earned them the enmity of the English populace, which added to the increasing antisemitic sentiments of the time, due to widespread indebtedness and financial ruin among the gentile population.\n\nWhen Edward returned from the Crusades in 1274, two years after his accession as King of England, he found that land had become a commodity, and that many of his subjects had become dispossessed and were in danger of destitution. Jews traded land for money, and land was often mortgaged to Jewish moneylenders.\n\nAs special direct subjects of the monarch, Jews could be taxed indiscriminately by the King. Some have described the situation as indirect usury: the monarch permitting and encouraging Jews to practise usury and then taxing the profit. In the years leading up to the Statute, Edward taxed them heavily to help finance his forthcoming military campaigns in Wales, which commenced in 1277. One theory holds that he had exhausted the financial resources of the Jewish community when the Statute was passed in 1275.\n\n\nThe licence to buy land was included so that farming, along with trading, could give Jews an opportunity to earn a living with the abolition of usury. Unfortunately, other provisions along with widespread prejudice made this difficult for many.\n\nAfter fifteen years had passed, it was discovered that Jews widely but secretly continued to practise usury, leading Edward I to issue the Edict of Expulsion in 1290.\n\n"}
{"id": "8886709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8886709", "title": "The Four Stages of Cruelty", "text": "The Four Stages of Cruelty\n\nThe Four Stages of Cruelty is a series of four printed engravings published by English artist William Hogarth in 1751. Each print depicts a different stage in the life of the fictional Tom Nero.\n\nBeginning with the torture of a dog as a child in the \"First stage of cruelty\", Nero progresses to beating his horse as a man in the \"Second stage of cruelty\", and then to robbery, seduction, and murder in \"Cruelty in perfection\". Finally, in \"The reward of cruelty\", he receives what Hogarth warns is the inevitable fate of those who start down the path Nero has followed: his body is taken from the gallows after his execution as a murderer and is mutilated by surgeons in the anatomical theatre.\n\nThe prints were intended as a form of moral instruction; Hogarth was dismayed by the routine acts of cruelty he witnessed on the streets of London. Issued on cheap paper, the prints were destined for the lower classes. The series shows a roughness of execution and a brutality that is untempered by the funny touches common in Hogarth's other works, but which he felt was necessary to impress his message on the intended audience. Nevertheless, the pictures still carry the wealth of detail and subtle references that are characteristic of Hogarth.\n\nIn common with other prints by Hogarth, such as \"Beer Street\" and \"Gin Lane\", \"The Four Stages of Cruelty\" was issued as a warning against immoral behaviour, showing the easy path from childish thug to convicted criminal. His aim was to correct \"that barbarous treatment of animals, the very sight of which renders the streets of our metropolis so distressing to every feeling mind\". Hogarth loved animals, picturing himself with his pug in a self-portrait, and marking the graves of his dogs and birds at his home in Chiswick.\n\nHogarth deliberately portrayed the subjects of the engravings with little subtlety since he meant the prints to be understood by \"men of the lowest rank\" when seen on the walls of workshops or taverns. The images themselves, as with \"Beer Street\" and \"Gin Lane\", were roughly drawn, lacking the finer lines of some of his other works. Fine engraving and delicate artwork would have rendered the prints too expensive for the intended audience, and Hogarth also believed a bold stroke could portray the passions of the subjects just as well as fine lines, noting that \"neither great correctness of drawing or fine engraving were at all necessary\".\n\nTo ensure that the prints were priced within reach of the intended audience, Hogarth originally commissioned the block-cutter J. Bell to produce the four designs as woodcuts. This proved more expensive than expected, so only the last two of the four images were cut and were not issued commercially at the time. Instead, Hogarth proceeded to create the engravings himself and announced the publication of the prints, along with that of \"Beer Street\" and \"Gin Lane\", in the \"London Evening Post\" over three days from 14–16 February 1751. The prints themselves were published on 21 February 1751 and each was accompanied by a moralising commentary, written by the Rev. James Townley, a friend of Hogarth's. As with earlier engravings, such as \"Industry and Idleness\", individual prints were sold on \"ordinary\" paper for \"1s.\" (one shilling, equating to about £  in 2018 terms), cheap enough to be purchased by the lower classes as a means of moral instruction. \"Fine\" versions were also available on \"superior\" paper for \"1s. 6d.\" (one shilling and sixpence, about £  in 2018 terms) for collectors.\n\nVariations on plates III and IV exist from Bell's original woodcuts, bearing the earlier date of 1 January 1750, and were reprinted in 1790 by John Boydell, but examples from either of the woodcut printings are uncommon.\n\nIn the first print Hogarth introduces Tom Nero, whose surname may have been inspired by the Roman Emperor of the same name or a contraction of \"No hero\". Conspicuous in the centre of the plate, he is shown being assisted by other boys to insert an arrow into a dog's rectum, a torture apparently inspired by a devil punishing a sinner in Jacques Callot's \"Temptation of St. Anthony\". An initialled badge on the shoulder of his light-hued and ragged coat shows him to be a pupil of the charity school of the parish of St Giles. Hogarth used this notorious slum area as the background for many of his works including \"Gin Lane\" and \"Noon\", part of the \"Four Times of the Day\" series. A more tender-hearted boy, perhaps the dog's owner, pleads with Nero to stop tormenting the frightened animal, even offering food in an attempt to appease him. This boy supposedly represents a young George III. His appearance is deliberately more pleasing than the scowling ugly ruffians that populate the rest of the picture, made clear in the text at the bottom of the scene:\nThe other boys carry out equally barbaric acts: the two boys at the top of the steps are burning the eyes out of a bird with a hot needle heated by the link-boy's torch; the boys in the foreground are throwing at a cock (perhaps an allusion to a nationalistic enmity towards the French, and a suggestion that the action takes place on Shrove Tuesday, the traditional day for cock-shying); another boy ties a bone to a dog's tail—tempting, but out of reach; a pair of fighting cats are hung by their tails and taunted by a jeering group of boys; in the bottom left-hand corner a dog is set on a cat, with the latter's intestines spilling out onto the ground; and in the rear of the picture another cat tied to two bladders is thrown from a high window. In a foreshadowing of his ultimate fate, Tom Nero's name is written under the chalk drawing of a man hanging from the gallows; the meaning is made clear by the schoolboy artist pointing towards Tom. The absence of parish officers who should be controlling the boys is an intentional rebuke on Hogarth's part; he agreed with Henry Fielding that one of the causes for the rising crime rate was the lack of care from the overseers of the poor, who were too often interested in the posts only for the social status and monetary rewards they could bring.\n\nBelow the text the authorship is established: \"Designed by W. Hogarth, Published according to Act of Parliament. 1 Feb.. 1751\" The Act of Parliament referred to is the Engraving Copyright Act 1734. Many of Hogarth's earlier works had been reproduced in great numbers without his authority or any payment of royalties, and he was keen to protect his artistic property, so had encouraged his friends in Parliament to pass a law to protect the rights of engravers. Hogarth had been so instrumental in pushing the Bill through Parliament that on passing it became known as the \"Hogarth Act\".\n\nIn the second plate, the scene is Thavies Inn Gate (sometimes ironically written as Thieves Inn Gate), one of the Inns of Chancery which housed associations of lawyers in London. Tom Nero has grown up and become a hackney coachman, and the recreational cruelty of the schoolboy has turned into the professional cruelty of a man at work. Tom's horse, worn out from years of mistreatment and overloading, has collapsed, breaking its leg and upsetting the carriage. Disregarding the animal's pain, Tom has beaten it so furiously that he has put its eye out. In a satirical aside, Hogarth shows four corpulent barristers struggling to climb out of the carriage in a ludicrous state. They are probably caricatures of eminent jurists, but Hogarth did not reveal the subjects' names, and they have not been identified. Elsewhere in the scene, other acts of cruelty against animals take place: a drover beats a lamb to death, an ass is driven on by force despite being overloaded, and an enraged bull tosses one of its tormentors. Some of these acts are recounted in the moral accompanying the print:\nThe cruelty has also advanced to include abuse of people. A dray crushes a playing boy while the drayman sleeps, oblivious to the boy's injury and the beer spilling from his barrels. Posters in the background advertise a cockfight and a boxing match as further evidence of the brutal entertainments favoured by the subjects of the image. The boxing match is to take place at Broughton's Amphitheatre, a notoriously tough venue established by the \"father of pugilism\", Jack Broughton: a contemporary bill records that the contestants would fight with their left leg strapped to the floor, with the one with the fewest bleeding wounds being adjudged the victor. One of the advertised participants in the boxing match is James Field, who was hanged two weeks before the prints were issued and features again in the final image of the series; the other participant is George \"the Barber\" Taylor, who had been champion of England but was defeated by Broughton and retired in 1750. On Taylor's death in 1757, Hogarth produced a number of sketches of him wrestling Death, probably for his tomb.\n\nAccording to Werner Busch, the composition alludes to Rembrandt's painting, \"Balaam's Ass\" (1626).\n\nIn an echo of the first plate, there is but one person who shows concern for the welfare of the tormented horse. To the left of Nero, and almost unseen, a man notes down Nero's hackney coach number to report him.\n\nBy the time of the third plate, Tom Nero has progressed from the mistreatment of animals to theft and murder. Having encouraged his pregnant lover, Ann Gill, to rob and leave her mistress, he murders the girl when she meets him. The murder is shown to be particularly brutal: her neck, wrist, and index finger are almost severed. Her trinket box and the goods she had stolen lie on the ground beside her, and the index finger of her partially severed hand points to the words \"God's Revenge against Murder\" written on a book that, along with the \"Book of Common Prayer\", has fallen from the box. A woman searching Nero's pockets uncovers pistols, a number of pocket watches—evidence of his having turned to highway robbery (as Tom Idle did in \"Industry and Idleness\"), and a letter from Ann Gill which reads:\n\nThe spelling is perfect and while this is perhaps unrealistic, Hogarth deliberately avoids any chance of the scene becoming comical. A discarded envelope is addressed \"To Tho Nero at Pinne...\". Ronald Paulson sees a parallel between the lamb beaten to death in the \"Second Stage\" and the defenceless girl murdered here. Below the print, the text claims that Nero, if not repentant, is at least stunned by his actions:\n\nVarious features in the print are meant to intensify the feelings of dread: the murder takes place in a graveyard, said to be St Pancras but suggested by John Ireland to resemble Marylebone; an owl and a bat fly around the scene; the moon shines down on the crime; the clock strikes one for the end of the witching hour. The composition of the image may allude to Anthony van Dyck's \"The Arrest of Christ\". A lone Good Samaritan appears again: among the snarling faces of Tom's accusers, a single face looks to the heavens in pity.\n\nIn the alternative image for this stage, produced as a woodcut by Bell, Tom is shown with his hands free. There are also differences in the wording of the letter and some items, like the lantern and books, are larger and simpler while others, such as the man to the left of Tom and the topiary bush, have been removed. The owl has become a winged hourglass on the clock tower.\n\nHaving been tried and found guilty of murder, Nero has now been hanged and his body taken for the ignominious process of public dissection. The year after the prints were issued, the Murder Act 1752 would ensure that the bodies of murderers could be delivered to the surgeons so they could be \"dissected and anatomised\". It was hoped this further punishment on the body and denial of burial would act as a deterrent. At the time Hogarth made the engravings, this right was not enshrined in law, but the surgeons still removed bodies when they could.\n\nA tattoo on his arm identifies Tom Nero, and the rope still around his neck shows his method of execution. The dissectors, their hearts hardened after years of working with cadavers, are shown to have as much feeling for the body as Nero had for his victims; his eye is put out just as his horse's was, and a dog feeds on his heart, taking a poetic revenge for the torture inflicted on one of its kind in the first plate. Nero's face appears contorted in agony and although this depiction is not realistic, Hogarth meant it to heighten the fear for the audience. Just as his murdered mistress's finger pointed to Nero's destiny in \"Cruelty in Perfection\", in this print Nero's finger points to the boiled bones being prepared for display, indicating his ultimate fate.\n\nWhile the surgeons working on the body are observed by the mortar-boarded academics in the front row, the physicians, who can be identified by their wigs and canes, largely ignore the dissection and consult among themselves. The president has been identified as John Freke, president of the Royal College of Surgeons at the time. Freke had been involved in the high-profile attempt to secure the body of condemned rioter Bosavern Penlez for dissection in 1749.\nAside from the over-enthusiastic dissection of the body and the boiling of the bones \"in situ\", the image portrays the procedure as it would have been carried out.\n\nTwo skeletons to the rear left and right of the print are labelled as James Field, a well-known boxer who also featured on a poster in the second plate, and Macleane, an infamous highwayman. Both men were hanged shortly before the print was published (Macleane in 1750 and Field in 1751). The skeletons seemingly point to one another. Field's name above the skeleton on the left may have been a last minute substitution for \"GENTL HARRY\" referring to Henry Simms, also known as Young Gentleman Harry. Simms was a robber who was executed in 1747. The motif of the lone \"good man\" is carried through to this final plate, where one of the academics points at the skeleton of James Field, indicating the inevitable outcome for those who start down the path of cruelty.\nThe composition of the scene is a pastiche of the frontispiece of Andreas Vesalius's \"De humani corporis fabrica\", and it possibly also borrows from \"Quack Physicians' Hall\" (c. 1730) by the Dutch artist Egbert van Heemskerck, who had lived in England and whose work Hogarth admired. An earlier source of inspiration may have been a woodcut in the 1495 \"Fasciculo di medicina\" by Johannes de Ketham which, although simpler, has many of the same elements, including the seated president flanked by two windows.\n\nBelow the print are these final words:\n\nHogarth was pleased with the results. \"European Magazine\" reported that he commented to a bookseller from Cornhill (a Mr. Sewell):\n\nIn his unfinished \"Apology for Painters\" he commented further:\n\nIn his 1817 book \"Shakespeare and His Times\", Nathan Drake credits the representation of \"throwing at cocks\" in the first plate for changing public opinion about the practice, which was common at the time, and prompting magistrates to take a harder line on offenders. In his \"Lectures on Ethics\" Immanuel Kant refers to the engravings as an example of how cruelty towards animals leads indirectly to failing duties towards humans as Hogarth \"brings home to us the terrible rewards of cruelty, and this should be an impressive lesson to children.\"\nOthers found the series less to their liking. Charles Lamb dismissed the series as mere caricature, not worthy to be included alongside Hogarth's other work, but rather something produced as the result of a \"wayward humour\" outside of his normal habits. Art historian Allan Cunningham also had strong feelings about the series:\n\nThe Anatomy Act 1832 ended the dissection of murderers, and most of the animal tortures depicted were outlawed by the Cruelty to Animals Act 1835, so by the 1850s \"The Four Stages of Cruelty\" had come to be viewed as a somewhat historical series, though still one with the power to shock, a power it retains for a modern audience.\n\n\na. A pair of impressions from Bell's original printing were acquired for £1600 by the University of Glasgow's Hunterian Museum and Art Gallery in 2005.\n\nb. There is some confusion over the date of George \"The Barber\" Taylor's career and death. In his earlier work Paulson puts him as a pupil of Broughton, killed in a fight with him in 1750, and the Tate Gallery dates Hogarth's sketches to c. 1750. In \"Hogarth's \"Harlot\"\", he states that Taylor retired in 1750 but came out of retirement in 1757 for a final fight in which he was badly beaten, dying from his injuries several months later. Most records date Taylor's championship to the middle 1730s.\n\nc. The initials on the box are normally read as A. G. for Ann Gill, but the G resembles a D, suggesting the box too may have been stolen.\n\nd. John Ireland identifies the president as \"Mr Frieake, the master of Nourse, to whom Mr Potts was a pupil\". Since Ireland identifies him as the master of Nourse, he undoubtedly means John Freke, an acquaintance of Hogarth's and surgeon at St Bartholomew's Hospital from 1729–1755 and a Governor 1736–1756. The dissection could be taking place at St Bartholomew's Hospital, where all three surgeons were based, but it also has features of the Cutlerian Theatre of the Royal College of Physicians near Newgate (particularly the throne, which bears their arms, and its curved wall resembling a cockpit) and the niches of the Barber-Surgeons' Hall (which was not used for dissection after the surgeons split away to form the Company of Surgeons in 1745).\n"}
{"id": "37978698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37978698", "title": "The Giving of Orders", "text": "The Giving of Orders\n\n\"The Giving of Orders\" is a 1926 essay by Mary Parker Follett. In it, she addresses issues of authority in business management, specifically how managers can gain influence over informal groups that naturally form in the workplace. She found that people respond better to situations than to top-down orders and managers should give people the means and willingness to respond to given situations instead of merely giving orders: \"My solution is to depersonalize the giving of orders, to unite all concerned in a study of the situation, to discover the law of the situation, and obey that.\"\n\nAs a young girl, Mary Follett faced many struggles. Her sister died while she was young and her father was in and out of her life. She was always involved in government and recent issues going on throughout her community. Although, she had limited access to research funds and other resources, she was able to write two influential books;\" The New State\" and \"Creative Experience\" which were insights gained by twenty years of civic and professional work in Boston's immigrant neighborhoods. By commuting everyday from her home in Boston to Roxbury, she recognized the difference between both cities and decided to make changes in Ward 17. With so much involvement throughout her lifetime, she started a revolution.\n\nBy addressing the way managers gain influence over informal groups, Follett explains that training the employee can not only help them better understand their job description, but also helps the employer to be better understood. She argues that \"orders should be the composite conclusion of those who give and those who receive them; more than this, that they should be the integration of the people concerned and the situation; more even than this, that they should be the integrations involved in the evolving situation.\". Follett found that workmen respond better to \"the order integral to a particular situation\", which is arrived at by \"joint study of the problem\". She argued that when \"orders are simply part of the situation, the question of someone giving and someone receiving does not come up. Both accept the orders given by the situation.\" In all, Follett cautions managers to avoid giving orders but rather to look with others to the situation at hand to determine an appropriate response. Follett felt that depersonalizing orders would foster collaborative decision making, in which managers and employees would \"discover\" the most appropriate decision. Follett developed the circular theory of power, distinguishing between \"power-over\" and \"power-with\" (coercive vs. co-active power), while also advocating for power sharing and employee participation.\n\nWhile Follett's writings were popular during her time period, they were nearly forgotten within ten years of her death. Scholars speculate that this could be due to gender discrimination and the fact that her ideas were too ahead of her time. Even though her perspective on voice is much more extreme than contemporary researchers, there has been renewed interest in her writings in the last couple of decades. Follett's work came during the height of Frederick Taylor's Scientific Management movement, which advocated the \"one right way\" for tasks to be performed, and Max Weber's view that direct hierarchy was the best form of leadership for larger organizations. The Giving of Orders challenged both of these paradigms and presented an alternative to purely top-down hierarchy in management. Many consider Follett “the Prophet of Management” because her ideas have affected the field of management for the past six decades.\n"}
{"id": "20783351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20783351", "title": "Toonen v. Australia", "text": "Toonen v. Australia\n\nToonen v. Australia was a landmark human rights complaint brought before the United Nations Human Rights Committee (UNHRC) by Tasmanian resident Nicholas Toonen in 1994. The case resulted in the repeal of Australia's last sodomy laws when the Committee held that sexual orientation was included in the antidiscrimination provisions as a protected status under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).\n\nIn 1991, Toonen complained to the Human Rights Committee that Tasmanian laws criminalising consensual sex between adult males in private were a violation of his right to privacy under Article 17 of ICCPR; distinguished between people on the basis of sexual activity, sexual orientation and identity in violation of Article 26; and meant that gay men in Tasmania were unequal before the law.\n\nAs a result of his complaint, Toonen lost his job as General Manager of the Tasmanian AIDS Council, because the Tasmanian Government threatened to withdraw the Council’s funding unless Toonen was fired. On 31 March 1994, the Committee agreed that, because of Tasmania's law, Australia was in breach of the obligations under the treaty. In response, the Commonwealth Government passed a law overriding Tasmania's criminalization of gay sex, Australia's last sodomy laws. The \"Toonen\" decision has subsequently been referenced by the Committee and by other treaty bodies in making rulings.\n\nAustralia inherited the United Kingdom's sodomy laws on white colonisation after 1788. These were retained in the criminal codes passed by the various colonial parliaments during the 19th century, and by the state parliaments after Federation.\n\nFollowing the Wolfenden report, the Dunstan Labor government in South Australia introduced a \"consenting adults in private\" defence in 1972. This defence was initiated as a bill by Murray Hill, father of former Defence Minister Robert Hill, and repealed the state's sodomy law in 1975. The Campaign Against Moral Persecution during the 1970s raised the profile and acceptance of Australia's gay and lesbian communities, and other states and territories repealed their laws between 1976 and 1990. The exceptions were Tasmania and Queensland.\n\nMale homosexuality (i.e., sodomy) was decriminalised in South Australia in 1975, and in the Australian Capital Territory in 1976, followed by Victoria in 1980, and New South Wales and the Northern Territory in 1984. Western Australia did the same in 1989. The states and territories that retained different ages of consent or other vestiges of sodomy laws later began to repeal them: Western Australia did so in 2002, and New South Wales and the Northern Territory did so in 2003. Tasmania decriminalised sodomy in 1997 following the High Court case \"Croome v Tasmania\".\n\nIn 1991, Nicholas Toonen, a gay activist, challenged two provisions of the Tasmanian Criminal Code: Sections 122(a) and (c), and 123, which criminalized all forms of sexual contact between consenting adult men in private, arguing that their continued existence in the Criminal Code of Tasmania had a profound and harmful impact on many Tasmanian people by fueling discrimination, harassment, and violence against gay and lesbian Tasmanians.\n\nAccording to Toonen's submission to the Committee, the laws\n\nempower Tasmanian police officers to investigate intimate aspects of his private life and to detain him, if they have reason to believe that he is involved in sexual activities which contravene the above sections. He adds that the Director of Public Prosecutions announced, in August 1988, that proceedings pursuant to Sections 122(a), (c) and 123 would be initiated if there was sufficient evidence of the commission of a crime.\n\nAlthough in practice the Tasmanian police had not charged anyone under Section 122 with \"unnatural sexual intercourse\" or \"intercourse against nature,\" or under Section 123 with \"indecent practice between male persons\" for several years, Toonen argued that because of his high-profile activism, his activities as an HIV/AIDS worker, and his long-term relationship with another man, his private life and liberty were threatened by the continued existence of these laws. He additionally argued that the laws restricted him from \"openly exposing his sexuality\" and publicizing his views on law reform as this would have been \"prejudicial to his employment,\" contending that the Sections \"created the conditions for discrimination in employment, constant stigmatization, vilification, threats of physical violence and the violation of basic democratic rights.\"\n\nToonen further complained that Tasmanian \"figures of authority\" (such as members of the Lower House of Parliament; municipal councillors; clergy and the general public) were known to openly make derogatory remarks about gays and lesbians, including statements such as \"representatives of the gay community are no better than Saddam Hussein\"; \"the act of homosexuality is unacceptable in any society, let alone a civilized society\"; and \"you are 15 times more likely to be murdered by a homosexual than a heterosexual\". Some had further suggested that all Tasmanian homosexuals should be exiled to an uninhabited island or be subjected to compulsory sterilization. This, claimed Toonen, constituted a \"campaign of official and unofficial hatred\" against gays and lesbians, and made it difficult for the Tasmanian Gay Law Reform Group to disseminate information about its activities and advocate the decriminalization of homosexuality.\n\nToonen alleged that Sections 122 (a) and (c) and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code violated articles 2(1), 17 and 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights because:\n\n(a) they do not distinguish between sexual activity in private and sexual activity in public and bring private activity into the public domain. In their enforcement, these provisions result in a violation of the right to privacy, since they enable the police to enter a household on the mere suspicion that two consenting adult homosexual men may be committing a criminal offence. Given the stigma attached to homosexuality in Australian society (and especially in Tasmania), the violation of the right to privacy may lead to unlawful attacks on the honour and the reputation of the individuals concerned.\n\n(b) they distinguish between individuals in the exercise of their right to privacy on the basis of sexual activity, sexual orientation and sexual identity, and\n\n(c) the Tasmanian Criminal Code does not outlaw any form of homosexual activity between consenting homosexual women in private and only some forms of consenting heterosexual activity between adult men and women in private. That the laws in question are not currently enforced by the judicial authorities of Tasmania should not be taken to mean that homosexual men in Tasmania enjoy effective equality under the law.\n\nThe remedy requested by Toonen was the repeal of these provisions.\n\nIn considering the admissibility of the complaint, the Committee determined that the author (Toonen) could be deemed a \"victim\" within the meaning of article 1 of the Optional Protocol, and that his claims were admissible \"ratione temporis\" (within the temporal jurisdiction of the Committee). The communication was declared admissible on 5 November 1992.\n\nIn its response, the federal government of Australia conceded that Toonen had been a victim of arbitrary interference with his privacy, that he was personally and actually affected by the laws challenged by him, and that the laws could not be justified on public health or moral grounds, but noted that the government of Tasmania denied that he had been the victim of a violation of the Covenant. The federal government noted that, while the state pointed out that no prosecutions or investigations had been made under the relevant Sections since 1984, the risk of prosecution or investigation remained.\n\nThe government of Tasmania argued that the retention of the Sections in question was justified and partly motivated by an effort to stem the spread of HIV/AIDS in the state, and that the laws were further justified on moral grounds; the federal government did not accept either claim, noting that laws against homosexuality in all other parts of Australia had been repealed, and that discrimination on the basis of sexuality was unlawful in three of six Australian states and the two self-governing internal Australian territories.\n\nThe federal government requested the Committee's guidance in interpreting whether sexual orientation could be subsumed under the term \"... or other status\" in article 26, requiring examination of the issues of:\n\n\nThe Committee found that adult consensual sexual activity in private is covered by the concept of \"privacy\", and that Toonen was affected by the continued existence of the Tasmanian laws, which continuously and directly interfered with his privacy, despite their lack of recent enforcement.\n\nThe Committee noted that \"the criminalization of homosexual practices cannot be considered a reasonable means or proportionate measure to achieve the aim of preventing the spread of AIDS/HIV\", further noting that \"The Australian Government observes that statutes criminalizing homosexual activity tend to impede public health programmes by driving underground many of the people at the risk of infection.\"\n\nThe Committee found that the Sections did not meet the \"reasonableness\" test in the circumstances of the case, and that they arbitrarily interfered with Toonen's right under article 17, paragraph 1.\n\nAs regards the guidance sought by the Australian government as to whether sexual orientation may be considered an \"other status\" for the purposes of article 26, the Committee found the reference to \"sex\" in article 26 is to be taken as including sexual orientation.\n\nThe Human Rights Committee therefore found that the facts before it revealed a violation of articles 17, paragraph 1, juncto 2, paragraph 1, of the Covenant. The author was entitled to a remedy under article 2(3)(a) of the Covenant, and the opinion of the Committee was that an effective remedy would be the repeal of Sections 122(a), (c) and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code, and requested a response from the Federal government in 90 days.\n\nCommittee member Bertil Wennergren submitted an appendix to the decision, in which he disagreed with the Committee's view that it was unnecessary to consider whether there had also been a violation of article 26 of the Covenant. In his opinion, a finding of a violation of article 17, paragraph 1, should rather have been deduced from a finding of violation of article 26.\n\nWennergren argued that the criminalization of certain behaviours under Sections 122(a), (c) and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code must be considered incompatible with article 26 of the Covenant (a) made a distinction between heterosexuals and homosexuals, and (b) criminalized sexual contacts between consenting men without at the same time criminalizing such contacts between consenting women, thereby setting aside the principle of equality before the law, in violation of article 26:\n\nThe discriminatory criminal legislation at issue here is not strictly speaking \"unlawful\" but it is incompatible with the Covenant, as it limits the right to equality before the law. In my view, the criminalization operating under Sections 122 and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code interferes with privacy to an unjustifiable extent and, therefore, also constitutes a violation of article 17, paragraph 1 . . . I share the Committee's opinion that an effective remedy would be the repeal of Sections 122(a), (c) and 123, of the Tasmanian Criminal Code. \n\nIn response to the Tasmanian Parliament's refusal to repeal the offending laws, the Federal government passed the Human Rights (Sexual Conduct) Act 1994 - Section 4, legalising sexual activity between consenting adults throughout Australia and prohibiting the making of laws that arbitrarily interfere with the sexual conduct of adults in private. In 1997 in the case of \"Croome v Tasmania\", Croome applied to the High Court of Australia for a ruling as to whether the Tasmanian laws were inconsistent with the Federal Human Rights (Sexual Conduct) Act. The Tasmanian Government repealed the relevant Criminal Code provisions after failing in its attempts to have the matter struck out.\n\nAccording to Nick Poynder in a public lecture presented at Monash University's Castan Centre for Human Rights Law in Melbourne on 28 April 2003, the Committee's views are \"widely published and carry significant moral and persuasive authority\":\n\nThere is no doubt . . . that the UNHRC's views in Toonen v Australia, that Tasmania's anti-homosexual laws were in breach of Article 17 of the ICCPR . . . led directly to the enactment by the Australian Parliament of legislation rendering those laws ineffective. \n\nAccording to Justice Michael Kirby, in a speech given on the 2004 bicentenary of Tasmania, the changes in law resulted in Tasmania becoming \"one of the most enlightened\" Australian states:\n\nEarly leadership was given by the Tasmania Police. It was followed by the Health Department, concerned to respond strongly to HIV/AIDS. An education reference group was established to turn around earlier policy and to combat homophobia in Tasmanian schools. Soon a programme was instituted to remove sexuality discrimination entirely from Tasmanian law and official practice. Tourism Tasmania even dedicated resources to promoting the State as a place friendly to gay visitors. For those who knew the whole history, this was truly a story of amazing Tasmania. Whereas in 1988, support for decriminalisation of homosexuality in this State had been 15% below the national average, by the time decriminalisation occurred in 1997, it was 15% above the average. Indeed, it was reportedly higher in Hobart than in Melbourne or Sydney. \n\nThis case law \"Toonen v. Australia\" is also referred to by the Declaration of Montreal, and a report of UN High Commissioner for Human Rights on sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "33356588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33356588", "title": "Transport (Wales) Act 2006", "text": "Transport (Wales) Act 2006\n\nThe Transport (Wales) Act 2006 (c 5) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was passed in response to a resolution approved by the National Assembly for Wales on 17 March 2004.\n\nThe Transport (Wales) Act 2006 (Commencement) Order 2006 (S.I. 2006/1403 (W.140) (C.48)) was made under this section.\n\n"}
{"id": "25321610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25321610", "title": "Utthalum", "text": "Utthalum\n\nUtthalum () is a Thai word and legal term, meaning \"immoral, unconventional, ingrate, against the custom\".\n\nThe term refers to a person who enters a case against his own parents or grandparents, or known in Thai as \"khon utthalum\" (; \"\"utthalum\" person\"). It does also refer to a case brought by an \"utthalum\" person, called in Thai \"khadi utthalum\" (; \"\"utthalum\" case\").\n\nThe ancient Thai law, the Law of Case Admission (พระไอยการลักษณะรับฟ้อง) under the Code of the Three Great Seals (กฎหมายตราสามดวง), prescribed:\n\n\"Section 21. A case shall be dismissed if it is instituted by an \"utthalum\" person, that is, a person who never appreciates the kindness of his own father, mother, grandfather or grandmother, and accuses the latter before any sort of court.\n\nSection 25. Any person who is \"utthalum\", that is, a person who never appreciates the kindness of his own father, mother, grandfather or grandmother, and accuses the latter before any sort of court, shall be punished with flagellation, in order that such evil deed will not be followed by others. Also, the case brought by him shall never be taken up.\"\n\nLater in the codification of the Civil and Commercial Code, the drafting committee resolved to derive certain rules of virtue from the Code of the Three Great Seals, including the principle of \"utthalum.\" The Civil and Commercial Code, Book 5: Family, Title 2: Parent and Child, Part 2: Rights and Duties of Parent and Child, which is in force still, prescribes:\n\n\"Section 1562. No person may enter a case, either civil or criminal, against any of his or her own ascendants. The public prosecutor may, however, take up the case upon application of such person or his or her close relative.\"\n\nAs section 1562 results in the restriction of rights of persons, Thai courts tend to interpret that the term \"ascendant\" (; ; from Sanskrit, \"purvakarī\", or Pāli, \"pubbakarī\", \"one who nurtures another first\") does not cover adoptive parents or grandparents.\n\n"}
{"id": "9326374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9326374", "title": "Venezuelan constitutional referendum, 2007", "text": "Venezuelan constitutional referendum, 2007\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Venezuela on 2 December 2007 to amend 69 articles of the 1999 Constitution. Reform was needed, according to Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, to initiate the transformation into a socialist country; detractors said he was using the reforms to become a dictator.\n\nThe referendum was narrowly defeated, giving Chávez the first and only election loss of his nine-year presidency. University student protests and opposition from former allies helped fuel the defeat, but the referendum results and the 44% abstention rate suggest that support also waned among Chávez's traditional base of Venezuela's poor.\n\nOn 15 August 2007, Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez proposed an amendment to 33 articles of Venezuela's 350-article Constitution. A constitutional provision allows the president, the National Assembly of Venezuela or a constituent assembly to ask for changes; reform should be approved by a national referendum. The 1999 constitution was promoted by Chávez and adopted by popular referendum. The proposed constitutional reforms were needed, according to Chávez, to complete the transition to a socialist republic and implement his socialist agenda; detractors said he was using the reforms to become a dictator. The proposal was hailed by government supporters as \"the start of a new era towards socialism\", but \"Podemos\", a pro-government party, expressed disagreement and claimed Chávez was seeking lifelong power.\n\nVenezuela's constitutional procedures require three debates before the National Assembly, to reform the constitution. The first debate was successfully held on 21 August 2007 and gave initial approval to the general purpose of the reform. During the second successful vote on 11 September 2007, the National Assembly added amendments to the original Chávez reform proposal, again angering the \"Podemos\" party, which said that the National Assembly had infringed the Constitution. The third vote on 25 October 2007 approved the proposal, enlarged from 33 articles to 69. Final parliamentary approval for the referendum was given on 2 November 2007.\n\nThe final proposal included 69 constitutional amendments to be voted on in two blocks: 33 that were originally proposed by President Chávez plus another 13 articles introduced by the National Assembly (Proposal A) and 23 more reform articles proposed by the National Assembly (Proposal B). Proposed changes included:\n\nIn November 2007, demonstrations arose in Caracas, Venezuela and six other cities over the proposed constitutional changes. \"Tens of thousands\" of \"Yes\" voters marched in Caracas after the referendum had finally been approved on 2 November. A 7 November riot at the Central University of Venezuela resulted in gunfire and several injuries; footage was caught on tape. In late November 2007, just days before the referendum, tens of thousands marched in Caracas for both the \"Yes\" and \"No\" votes. An opposition politician estimated the crowd marching for the \"No\" vote at 160,000. Protests were largely peaceful, and only one death has been reported.\n\nSome of Chávez's supporters expressed concerns and disagreement with his proposals to change the constitution. Many voters abstained in the vote, rather than cast a \"No\" vote against Chávez. The student movement played a crucial role in consolidating this position and in organizing numerous rallies. The student movement has played a large role in the Venezuelan political process, having gained a prominent position during the RCTV broadcast license expiration protests. Although the student movement is not limited to the opposition, it has been the opposition students that have gained the largest support, in part because they are not officially affiliated with any political cadres. After the election the student movement was awarded $500,000 from libertarian Cato Institute located in Washington, D.C. USA.\n\nRaúl Baduel, former Minister of Defense and one of the four founding members of Chávez's Revolutionary Bolivarian Movement-200, expressed his concern by describing the reform as \"nothing less than an attempt to establish a socialist state in Venezuela ... [which] is contrary to the beliefs of Simón Bolívar and it is also contrary to human nature and the Christian view of society, because it grants the state absolute control over the people it governs\". Other leaders and former Chávez supporters who distanced themselves from the proposal were Ismael García, a deputy in the National Assembly, and Ramón Martínez, governor of Sucre State. Marisabel Rodríguez, Chávez's ex-wife, called the proposed changes an attempt to achieve \"an absolute concentration of power\".\n\nVenezuela's state television network broadcast coverage prior to the referendum of a memo written in Spanish, claiming it evidenced a plan by the C.I.A. to destabilize Chávez—an allegation referred to as Operation Pliers. Chávez threatened to cut off oil exports to the United States if violence resulted from the referendum and declared at his campaign's closing that \"whoever voted 'Yes' was voting for Hugo Chávez, but whoever voted 'No' was voting for George W. Bush\". The U.S. has responded by calling the allegations \"ridiculous\" and \"a fake\". Independent analysts doubt the authenticity of the document, noting both the lack of an original document in English and that \"the timing of its release is strange.\"\n\nPolls from November saw very close results. In mid-November, a Hinterlaces poll found that 51% of decided voters supported the change, while Mecanálisis said 64% of decided voters would vote against reform. A poll by Keller & Asociados concluded defeat for the proposal with 45% \"No\" to 31% \"Yes\" votes; about 65% of eligible people planned to vote. A late-November poll by Datanalisis of 1,854 likely voters indicated 49% were opposed, with 39% in favor. Reportedly, some moderate Chávez backers were likely to vote \"No\"; it was the first Datanalisis survey to project a loss, contrasted with earlier surveys that showed a win for Chávez \"amid low turnout and despite widespread skepticism of his proposal\".\n\nThe proposal was narrowly defeated, 51 to 49 percent, in the first major electoral defeat for Chávez in the nine years of his presidency. Chávez conceded defeat, saying, \"I congratulate my adversaries for this victory\", and \"for now, we could not do it.\"\n\nSource: National Electoral Council (CNE)\n\nIn conceding defeat, Chávez insisted that he would \"continue in the battle to build socialism\". Although two days later Chavez called \"victoria de mierda\" (shitty victory) to the results, further saying that \"but already you are covering it (the victory) in shit\". Chávez conceded defeat by saying \"for now, we couldn't\" \"(\"por ahora no pudimos\"\"), echoing the phrase he used after the failure of the February 1992 Venezuelan coup d'état attempt. Manuel Rosales, a 2006 Venezuelan presidential candidate, said, \"Tonight, Venezuela has won\". Leopoldo López, a popular opposition mayor, said \"Venezuela won today, democracy won today\".\n\nLatin American media responses included special reports that highlighted Chávez's first electoral setback in nine years and his ethical acceptance of defeat. According to a Mercosur press release, the general Latin American response was praise for the \"democratic maturity\" evidenced by the Venezuelan people. Brazil's Foreign Affairs Minister, Celso Amorin, said \"The president accepted the result in a very calm and elegant manner.\" President Felipe Calderón of Mexico said Chávez had shown \" ... enormous valor to admit such results\". Spain's Foreign Affairs minister, Miguel Ángel Moratinos, said that \"free expression of people's sovereignty has been accepted by all sides including those who had promoted the referendum\". Néstor Kirchner, Argentine President described Chávez as a \"great democrat\". A response characterized by Mercosur as \"blunt\" came from Cuban Foreign Affairs minister Felipe Perez Roque: \"those who have organized plots to destabilize Venezuela, to abolish its democratically elected government and even attempt a coup against President Chávez are active and we hope that they quit and let the Venezuelan people build their future in peace\".\n\nThe U.S. administration of President George W. Bush hailed the defeat as a victory for democracy. Bush said, \"The Venezuelan people rejected one-man rule. They voted for democracy.\" A National Security Council spokesman said, \"We congratulate the people of Venezuela on their vote and their continued desire to live in freedom and democracy\". A State Department Undersecretary said, \"We felt that this referendum would make Chávez president for life, and that’s not ever a welcome development. In a country that wants to be a democracy, the people spoke, and the people spoke for democracy and against unlimited power.\"\n\nThe Organization of American States Secretary-General José Miguel Insulza called the results of the referendum an \"exemplary development\" on the part of the Venezuelan government and people, saying that democracy in the Americas \"passed a difficult test and emerged stronger, showing clearly its consolidation.\" Reporters without Borders expressed hope that the result of the vote would end the \"media war\" in Venezuela.\n\nThe day after the referendum, financial markets were buoyed by Chávez's defeat; Venezuelan bonds rose and the stock index in Caracas surged 4% following a year-to-date 24% decline.\n\nChávez said on 5 December that he intended to launch a second attempt to change the Constitution. According to \"El Universal\" newspaper, he said: Responding to George W. Bush's remarks, he said: During a press conference with the military high command, he expressed on Venezolana de Televisión the possibility of bringing the proposal back in \"the same form, transformed or simplified\" in a future referendum and the creation of the bolivarian militias by modifying the laws regarding the armed forces. He also described the opposition's victory as \"full of shit\" and his defeat as \"full of courage, valor and dignity\".\n\nA month after the referendum was defeated, Chávez named Ramon Carrizales to replace vice-president Jorge Rodríguez, who had been blamed by many Chávez supporters for the failed referendum.\n\nSource: National Electoral Council (CNE)\n\n"}
{"id": "11382919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11382919", "title": "Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer", "text": "Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer\n\nThe Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer is a multilateral environmental agreement signed in 1985 that provided frameworks for international reductions in the production of chlorofluorocarbons due to their contribution to the destruction of the ozone layer and resulting increase in the threat of skin cancer. \nDuring the 1970's, research indicated that man-made chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) reduce and convert ozone molecules in the atmosphere. CFCs are stable molecules composed of carbon, fluorine, and chlorine that were used prominently in products such as refrigerators. The threats associated with reduced ozone pushed the issue to the forefront of global climate issues and gained promotion through organizations such as the World Meteorological Organization and the United Nations. The Vienna Convention was agreed upon at the Vienna Conference of 1985 and entered into force in 1988. The Vienna Convention provided the framework necessary to create regulatory measures in the form of the Montreal Protocol.\n\nIn terms of universality, it is one of the most successful treaties of all time, having been ratified by 197 states (all United Nations members as well as the Holy See, Niue and the Cook Islands) as well as the European Union. While not a binding agreement, it acts as a framework for the international efforts to protect the ozone layer; however, it does not include legally binding reduction goals for the use of CFCs, the main chemical agents causing ozone depletion. \n\nThe treaty's provisions include the international sharing of climate and atmospheric research to promote knowledge of the effects on the ozone layer. In addition, the treaty calls for the adoption of international agencies to assess the harmful effects of depleted ozone and the promotion of policies that regulate the production of harmful substances that influence the ozone layer. One of the outcomes of the Vienna Convention was the creation of a panel of governmental atmospheric experts known as the Meeting of Ozone Research Managers, which assesses ozone depletion and climate change research and produces a report for the Conference of Parties (COP). Additionally, the COP utilizes the data assessed to suggest new policies aimed at limiting CFC emissions. \n\nCurrently, the COP meets every three years and coordinates with the timing of a similar meeting rendered under the Montreal Protocol. The Ozone Secretariat functions as an administrator of the COP, Montreal Meeting of Parties (MOP), and Open-Ended Working Groups that help facilitate functions under the convention. A Multilateral Fund exists to aid developing nations transition from ozone-depleting chemicals using guidelines under the convention, which is administered by a Multilateral Fund Secretariat. The Multilateral Fund has aided thousands of projects in nearly 150 countries, preventing the usage of roughly 250,000 tons of ozone-depleting chemicals. \n\n"}
{"id": "6787954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6787954", "title": "Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties between States and International Organizations or between International Organizations", "text": "Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties between States and International Organizations or between International Organizations\n\nThe Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties between States and International Organizations or Between International Organizations (VCLTIO) is an extension of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties which deals with treaties between States. It was developed by the International Law Commission and opened for signature on 21 March 1986.\n\nArticle 85 of the Convention provides that it enters into force after the ratification by 35 states (international organizations may ratify, but their ratification does not count towards the number required for entry into force). As of October 2017, the treaty has been ratified by 32 states and 12 international organizations. As a result, the Convention is not yet in force.\n\nThere are 32 state parties, where the convention is ratified: Mexico, Colombia, Argentina, Uruguay, Senegal, Liberia, Gabon, Australia, United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden, Estonia, Belarus, Moldova, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Spain, Germany, Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Italy, Austria, Croatia, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Malta, Albania and Palestine.\n\nAdditionally, there are 12 international organizations that issued formal confirmations of the convention: IAEA, ICAO, Interpol, ILO, IMO, OPCW, CTBTO Preparatory Commission, the UN, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO.\n\nThe signatory states that have not ratified are: Ivory Coast, DR Congo, United States, Brazil, Bosnia and Herzegovina, South Korea, Japan, Serbia, Montenegro, Morocco, Egypt, Sudan, Burkina Faso, Benin, Zambia, and Malawi. Additionally, there are international organizations that have signed, but not completed their formal confirmation procedures: CoE, FAO, ITU, UNESCO and WMO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6929187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6929187", "title": "Webster v. New Lenox School District", "text": "Webster v. New Lenox School District\n\n\"Webster v. New Lenox School District\", 917 F.2d 1004 (7th Cir. 1990) was a court case in Illinois, in which a social studies teacher Ray Webster sued the New Lenox School District 122 in New Lenox, Illinois, which he accused of violating his First Amendment right to free speech for stopping him from teaching \"creation science\" in class. The court found however that the school district had a right to restrict Webster to teaching the specified curriculum, and that in any case the teaching of \"creation science\" was illegal, having been ruled to violate the establishment clause in the U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\", 482 U.S. 578 (1987).\n\nThe case hinged on the school district's \"pedagogical interest in establishing the curriculum and legitimate concern with possible establishment clause violations\".\n\nWebster appealed and the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed the District Court's original decision deciding \"teaching creation science for any reason was a form of religious advocacy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "45677385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45677385", "title": "Whithair v A-G", "text": "Whithair v A-G\n\nWhithair v A-G [1996] 2 NZLR 45 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding the Bill of Rights Act.\n"}
{"id": "52816427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52816427", "title": "Working With Children Check", "text": "Working With Children Check\n\nThe Working With Children Check (WWCC) is an Australian background check requirement, assessing the criminal record of those working or volunteering in child-related work. The check is known as the WWCC (or WWC) in most states and territories. The equivalent check in Queensland is known as a \"Blue Card.\" In the ACT, the equivalent check is known as the Working with Vulnerable People registration.\n\nIn Australia, the Working With Children Check is legislated by each state and territory for the purpose of conducting background checks for people seeking to engage in child-related work. These checks aim to prevent people from working or volunteering with children if records indicate that they may pose an unacceptable level of risk to children. While the check is currently conducted on a state level, an Australian government royal commission has called for the transition to a nationwide check. At the same time, some researchers have questioned the effectiveness of a nationwide approach, citing advantages of the particular state scheme developments.\n\nIn Australia, this form of pre-employment screening for child-related work began in 2000, when the state of New South Wales introduced its Working With Children Check scheme. Since then, every state and territory has established some form of the scheme. Each of the eight state and territory children check schemes operate independently of each other.\n\nIn 2016, South Australia announced it would be switching from a model of criminal background checks to a WWCC model, following a recent royal commission report.\n\nIn New South Wales, since changes to the WWCC system in 2013, about 1,800 people have been barred from working with children in the state.\n\nIn NSW, the application process involves registering online with the Office of the Children's Guardian, and bringing 100 points of ID to a Service NSW centre. The verification is subsequently emailed to the individual, however, the employer is required to verify the check online as well.\n\nEmployers of child-related services need access and update the online WWC system with their current employees to include the Working With Children (WWC) number of each child-related employee. This means that technically if there is an adverse finding in the future, an employer could theoretically be notified, however there is no official requirement to do so, on the contrary, there is concern that lack of coordination between states may allow some adverse issues slip through. According to Working With Children NSW, if the verification result is CLEARED or APPLICATION IN PROGRESS, the worker may commence child-related work. If the verification result is NOT FOUND, EXPIRED, INTERIM BARRED or BARRED, the employer must not employ the worker for child-related work and it is a criminal offence to do so.\n\nOnce a person has a Working With Children Check they can seek employment in child-related work; the Check relates to the individual, not to the specific position of employment. As such, individuals may use the same check for multiple positions or workplaces.\n\nThe WWCC expires after a certain time (5 years) and should be renewed before the deadline to avoid employment compliance issues.\n\nCertain roles and positions are exempt from the WWCC requirement. For example, in Queensland, shopping mall Santas are exempt, while those hired by schools and other venues are required to undergo the check. A parent who volunteers at their child's school may be exempt from the check. In other instances, some roles, such as tutors, will require a WWCC in some states but not in others. Schoolchildren are generally exempt from the check, however, the check is required for Year 12 students who repeated their studies (completing a 13th year), as they turned 18.\n\nThe WWCC is intended to exclude people with inappropriate criminal histories from working with children, but at the same time, it is not a mechanism for accessing individual criminal history information. The WWCC process is actually designed to protect the individual from having to reveal his or her record, as the application is made by the individual, and if rejected is not otherwise publicised.\n\nSome criticism of the WWCC system followed a report that a man being investigated by counter-terrorism authorities, who had previously been involved in a standoff with police at gunpoint in which he threatened them with a sword, continued to be authorised to work with children. Nesha Oneil Hutchinson, President of Australian Childcare Alliance NSW stated that the Working With Children Check system contained serious flaws where unless an individual was convicted of a crime against a child, they may still pass the check. This would allow individuals convicted of crimes against adults to be allowed to work with children. Additionally, the state-based system would possibly allow someone committed of a crime against a child in another state to receive the check as well.\n\nIn 2015, final decisions on thousands of applications for checks in South Australia were delayed due to staffing shortages. In some instances, individuals were unable to work while the applications were still being processed, leading members of the public to call for an interim measure to let people work at least until a new clearance was issued.\n\n"}
