{"id": "62238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62238", "title": "Abu Bakr bin Yahya al-Suli", "text": "Abu Bakr bin Yahya al-Suli\n\nAbu Bakr Muhammad bin Yahya al-Suli (, 880, Gorgan-946, Basra) was a nadim (boon companion) of successive Abbasid caliphs. He was noted for his poetry and scholarship and wrote a chronicle called \"Akhbar al-Radi wa'l-Muttaqi\", detailing the reigns of the caliphs al-Radi and al-Muttaqi. He was a legendary player of shatranj, a game ancestral to chess, and is still remembered to this day.\n\nUpon the death of al-Radi in 940, al-Suli fell into disfavour with the new ruler due to his sympathies towards Shi'a Islam and as a result had to go into exile at Basra, where he spent the rest of his life in poverty. Born into an illustrious family of Turkish origin, Al-Suli's great-grandfather was the Turkish prince Sul-takin and his uncle was the poet Ibrahim ibn al-'Abbas as-Suli.\n\nAl-Suli's chronicle has long been in the shadow of more famous chronicles such as those of al-Mas'udi and Miskawayh, perhaps because al-Suli was seen as a nadim and not a serious scholar. However, the account is significant for offering an eyewitness account of the transition to Buyid rule. It was during al-Radi's caliphate in 936 that the position of \"amir al-umara\" was created, which allowed for the transfer of executive power from the caliph to an \"amir\", a position that the Buyids later used to establish a new dynasty alongside the Abbasids. After this point, the Abbasids never regained their full power. However, al-Suli's account makes it clear that not \"all\" power was transferred to the amirs.\n\nAl-Suli came to prominence as a shatranj player sometime between 902 and 908 when he beat al-Mawardi, the court shatranj champion of al-Muktafi, and the Caliph of Baghdad. Al-Mawardi was so thoroughly beaten that he fell from favour, and was replaced by al-Suli. After al-Muktafi's death, al-Suli remained in the favour of the succeeding ruler, al-Muqtadir and in turn ar-Radi.\n\nAl-Suli's shatranj-playing ability became well-known and he is still considered one of the best Arab players of all time. His biographer ben Khalliken, who died in 1282, said that even in his lifetime great shatranj players were said to play like al-Suli. Documentary evidence from his lifetime is limited, but the endgames of some of the matches he played are still in existence. His skill in blindfold chess was also mentioned by contemporaries. Al-Suli also taught shatranj. His most well known pupil is al-Lajlaj (\"the stammerer\").\n\nOne of his most prominent achievements is his book, \"Kitab Ash-Shatranj\" (Book of Chess), which was the first scientific book written on chess strategy. It contained information on common chess openings, standard problems in middle game, and annotated end games. It also contains the first known description of the knight's tour problem. Many later European writers based their work on modern chess on al-Suli's work. He also wrote several historical books.\n\nal-Suli created a shatranj problem called \"al-Suli's Diamond\" that went unsolved for over a thousand years.\nAs this is a shatranj, the \"queen\" (counsellor) is a very weak piece, able to move only a single square diagonally. It is possible to win in shatranj by capturing all pieces except the king, unless the opponent is able to do the same on the next move.\n\nDavid Hooper and Ken Whyld studied this problem in the mid-1980s but were unable to crack it. It was finally solved by Russian Grandmaster Yuri Averbakh. The solution, starting with 1. Kb4, is given in Hans Ree's \"The Human Comedy of Chess\", and on the web.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52228899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52228899", "title": "Al-Musabbihi", "text": "Al-Musabbihi\n\nAl-Amīr al-Mukhtār ʿIzz al-Mulk Abū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Abiʾl Qāsim ʿUbayd Allāh ibn Aḥmad ibn Ismāʿīl ibn ʿAbd al-Azīz al-Ḥarranī al-Musabbiḥī al-Kātib, commonly known simply as al-Musabbihi (4 March 977 – April/May 1030), was a Fatimid historian, writer and administrative official. He is known to have authored some 40,000 pages of manuscripts dealing with an array of topics, including history, psychology, law, grammar, sexology and cooking. \"Akhbār Miṣr\", a contemporary chronicle of Egyptian history and news, was among al-Musabbihi's well-known works. However, like the vast majority of al-Musabbihi's works, only fragments of \"Akhbār Miṣr\" survived; most of his writings disappeared not long after his death. \n\nAl-Musabbihi was a devout Sunni Muslim born in Fustat, where he lived most of his life and died. He was known to be loyal to the Fatimid government and maintained particularly close ties with Caliph al-Hakim (r. 996–1021). Early in his career, he served in the Fatimid military and was made a provincial governor in Upper Egypt before becoming a leading figure in the Fatimids' central administration in Cairo.\n\nAl-Musabbihi was born a Sunni Muslim in Fustat, Egypt on 4 March 977. His family was originally from Harran in Upper Mesopotamia (al-Jazira). Not common for a locally-born Sunni civilian, al-Musabbihi joined the Fatimid military. He was made governor of al-Qays and Bahnasa (both in Upper Egypt) and held the title of \"amir\" (commander). He was later appointed head of the \"dīwān al-tartīb\", a position equivalent to general secretary of the central administration. He traveled daily from al-Fustat to his government post in Cairo and on most evenings, he stopped by the historic Mosque of Amr ibn al-As and interacted with his and his father's friends, most of whom were Syrian Muslim traditionalists. Though he was a devout Sunni Muslim, al-Musabbihi was loyal to the Fatimids' Ismaili Shia state and maintained a particularly close relationship with the eccentric caliph al-Hakim (r. 996–1021). The latter was known to get along with the residents of Fustat. Al-Musabbihi died in Fustat in April/May 1030.\n\nAl-Musabbihi was a prolific writer, who authored numerous manuscripts on a variety of subjects, including history, practical psychology, sexology, law, grammar and cooking. The later medieval historians Ibn Khallikan and Ibn Sa'id al-Andalusi documented in detailed lists all of al-Musabbihi's works and the amount of pages for each work; al-Musabbihi's total work amounted to roughly 40,000 pages, with some works alone consisting of over a thousand pages. However, most of his work disappeared not long after he died.\n\nAmong al-Musabbihi's main works was the roughly 13,000-page chronicle of Egypt's history, known as \"Akhbār Miṣr\". Like al-Musabbihi's other works, much of \"Akhbār Miṣr\" was lost early on, with exceptions including quotations of this work that were copied in other historians' compilations. The only known manuscript of \"Akhbār Miṣr\" that was preserved is chapter 40, which is located in the Escorial in Spain. This section of al-Musabbihi's work documented events occurring in the caliphate between 1023/24 and 1024/25 and also contained poems and letters by other writers who were well-acquainted with al-Musabbihi. According to Thierry Bianquis, this manuscript \"provides an insight into the contemporary literary composition, in elegant prose and poetry, of Egypt and Iraq at the beginning of the 11th century\". The modern Egyptian historian Ayman Fuad Sayyid claims the 15th-century Egyptian historian al-Maqrizi had in his possession chapter 34 of \"Akhbar Misr\", which recorded events for the year 1004/05. \n\n\"Akhbar Misr\" was a contemporary work in which al-Musabbihi recorded the day-to-day events in the Fatimid Caliphate and at the end of the year, recorded the obituaries of notable individuals. As an administrative official in Cairo, he also documented the often violent struggle for power in the aftermath of al-Hakim's death, centered around various military commanders and civil officials, who utilized informers and forged documents to discredit each other in front of al-Hakim's child successor, az-Zahir (r. 1021–1036). He held suspicions about the intrigues of Sitt al-Mulk's entourage with az-Zahir. According to Bianquis, \"it is possible that ideological control [following al-Hakim's death] was imposed on official historiography and that a certain number of texts, including the writings of al-Musabbihi, were spontaneously destroyed\". Al-Musabbihi also included news about the Bedouin uprising against the Fatimids in Syria in 1024/25 that placed the Mirdasids and Jarrahids in power there. Moreover, \"Akhbār Miṣr\" recorded regular aspects of life in Fustat, ranging from road accidents and crimes to wholesale and retail prices on goods amid a famine to hippopotami roaming in the Nile River.\n"}
{"id": "4037331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4037331", "title": "Alice Kober", "text": "Alice Kober\n\nAlice Elizabeth Kober (December 23, 1906 – May 16, 1950) was an American classicist best known for extensive investigations that eventually led to the decipherment of Linear B.\n\nThe daughter of Hungarian immigrants, Kober was born in Yorkville, a neighborhood on Manhattan's Upper East Side. She attended Hunter College High School, and in the summer of 1924, she placed third in a New York City scholarship contest. The $100-a-year prize helped her to attend Hunter College, where she majored in Latin, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and graduated magna cum laude. She earned a master's degree in classics at Columbia University in 1929 and a PhD in 1932.\n\nWhile working on her doctorate, Kober taught at Hunter High and Hunter College and, in 1930, became an assistant professor of classics at Brooklyn College, where she remained for the rest of her career. A former student, Eva Brann, wrote that Kober was \"aggressively nondescript...Her figure dumpy with sloping shoulders, her chin heavily determined, her hair styled for minimum maintenance, her eyes behind bottle-bottom glasses snapped impatiently and twinkled not unkindly.\" On campus she shared an office with four other faculty members and served on standard committees. After teaching herself Braille, she also brailled textbooks, library materials, and final exams for blind students at Brooklyn College. Kober lived with her widowed mother and, so far as is known, never had a romantic partner.\n\nBeginning in the 1930s, Kober privately studied Linear B, as yet an undeciphered script of an unidentified Aegean language of the Bronze Age, keeping massive statistics on 180,000 hand-cut cards and tabulations in forty notebooks. Kober used a hand punch to create a kind of \"database, with the punched holes marking the parameters on which the data could be sorted.\" She also mastered a host of languages, ancient and modern, including Hittite, Old Irish, Akkadian, Tocharian, Sumerian, Old Persian, Basque and Chinese. From 1942 to 1945, while teaching full-time in Brooklyn, she commuted weekly by train to Yale to take classes in advanced Sanskrit. She also studied field archeology in New Mexico.\n\nIn 1946, Kober received a one-year Guggenheim Fellowship to study Linear B full-time. Making the acquaintance of John Linton Myres, she gained access to many more Linear B inscriptions collected by the archaeologist of Knossos, Sir Arthur Evans, and hand copied most of them at Oxford University in 1947. Kober's major discovery was that Linear B was an inflected language, difficult to write in a syllabic script.\n\nFurther progress in deciphering the language was delayed by her renewed teaching duties and the thankless job of proofreading and correcting Myres's \"Scripta Minoa\". A chain smoker, Kober died, probably of cancer, in 1950 at the age of 43. After her death, the architect Michael Ventris built on Kober's work and with some inspired guesses deciphered the script in 1952, establishing that it was Mycenaean Greek.\n\nKober's extensive correspondence and papers, including support for her search for inflections in Linear B, are available online at the Program for Aegean Scripts & Prehistory (PASP) at the University of Texas at Austin: Alice E. Kober Papers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4944379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4944379", "title": "American Jewish Historical Society", "text": "American Jewish Historical Society\n\nThe American Jewish Historical Society (AJHS) was founded in 1892 with the mission to foster awareness and appreciation of American Jewish history and to serve as a national scholarly resource for research through the collection, preservation and dissemination of materials relating to American Jewish history.\n\nThe American Jewish Historical Society is the oldest national ethnic historical organization in the United States. The Society's library, archives, photograph, and art and artifacts collections document the American Jewish experience. They are housed in the Center for Jewish History in Manhattan.\n\nThe society has administrative offices in both New York, New York, and in Boston, Massachusetts. It has served as a public educational and interpretive function by publishing a journal, a newsletter, monographs and reference works on the American Jewish experience.\n\nIn 2007, it was among over 530 New York City arts and social service institutions to receive part of a $20 million grant from the Carnegie Corporation, which was made possible through a donation by New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg.\n\nThe Society publishes books, a genealogy program, museums tours, academic assistance and other related educational activities. Additionally, the American Jewish Historical Society publishes the following publications:\n\nThe American Jewish Historical Society has some 40 million items in its archives, including manuscripts, printed material, photographs, audio files, film files, digital material, and objects. Important elements of the Society's collection include hundreds of historical manuscripts and other records of American Jewish groups, including the papers of the Council of Jewish Federations and Welfare Funds, the Synagogue Council of America, the American Jewish Congress, the American Jewish Committee, and the Hebrew Benevolent Society, as well as the papers of HIAS (formerly the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society) from 1954 to 2000; United Jewish Appeal-Federation of New York and predecessor organizations from 1909 to 2004; and the American Soviet Jewry Movement.\n\nThe Society holds the original manuscript of \"The New Colossus\" by Emma Lazarus, as well as very early American Jewish documents, including Judah Monis's Hebrew grammar textbook (1735), the first American siddur for Jewish holidays printed in English (1761), and the first Hebrew‐English prayerbook published in the United States (1826). The Society also holds documents from American Jewish Patriots of the American Revolution, including the marriage contract of Haym Salomon (1777). The Society's Loeb Portrait Database of American Jewish Portraits is a repository of more than 400 portraits of pre-1865 American Jews.\n\nThe Society also maintains the Jewish-American Hall of Fame, which was founded in 1969 at the Judah L. Magnes Museum in Berkeley, California, and became part of the American Jewish Historical Society in 2001.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33018370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33018370", "title": "Archaeological Museum of Cherchell", "text": "Archaeological Museum of Cherchell\n\nThe Archaeological Museum of Cherchell is an archaeological museum located in the center of the seaport town of Cherchell in Tipaza Province, Algeria.\n\nThe Cherchell Museum houses what are widely considered to be some of the best examples of Roman and Greek antiquities on the African continent. Cherchell was called Caesarea of Mauretania during the Roman empire, and was the rich capital of Roman Mauretania Caesariensis. Many artifacts from these various periods of Cherchell's former history have been uncovered by archaeologists, a large number of which are on display in the Cherchell Archaeological Museum.\n\nExhibits include works by Byzantine silversmiths, such as ornately decorated patera (vessels used for drinking), as well as intricately designed mosaics. It was during the Roman reign over Mauritania in 25 BC, under the leadership of Juba II, that a theater, library and other buildings were established in Cherchell (Caesarea).\n\nJuba II also gathered an impressive collection of artworks, particularly marble sculptures, some of which have landed up in museums in other parts of the world, but excellent examples are to be found in Cherchell Museum, along with a sculpture of the head of his wife, Cleopatra Selene II. Partial ruins of the Roman theater, Roman baths, and Civile Basilica are found on the outskirts of Cherchell.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10478793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10478793", "title": "Aryeh Kasher", "text": "Aryeh Kasher\n\nAryeh Kasher (; 1935 – October 26, 2011) was an Israeli academic and writer. He was a professor at Tel Aviv University and winner of the 1990 Bialik Prize for Hebrew literature.\n\nKasher grew up in Kfar Vitkin, where he graduated from elementary school and high school. In his youth he wrote the radio feuilleton \"Hilik Haviv\" with his childhood friends and classmates Gad Yaacobi (later a government minister and member of the Knesset) and Micha Gisser (later professor of economics at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque, New Mexico). In the Israeli army, he served at the Nahal.\n\nHe began his history teaching in Emek Hefer regional school in the early 1960s. He received a MA from Tel Aviv University—the subject of his thesis, completed in 1966, was history background and messianism in Assumption of Moses.\n\nKasher received his PhD in Jewish studies from Tel Aviv University in 1973. The dissertation subject was \"The jurisric-political class and the rights system of the Jews of Egypt in the Hellenistic period and the Roman Principate\". His advisor was . taught him and influenced his work.\n\nKasher taught Jewish history in Tel Aviv University for many years and led the Center for the Study of Israel and its Settlements at Tel Aviv University, affiliated to Yad Yitzhak Ben-Zvi Institute. He retired in 2005.\n\nHis speciality was the history of the Jews and Land of Israel during the Second Temple period.\n\nIn 1990, Kasher was the co-recipient (jointly with ) of the Bialik Prize for Jewish thought.\n\nHis book deals with two major subjects: first, the Idumeans Judaizing, located in Idumea and the Yturs in the Galilee and their integrating in the Jewish society. The Judaizing action describe in the Hellenistic Historiography as an act of compulsion by the Hasmonean, in order to abase their name. Kasher argues that the judaising conducted out of good will and cooperation of the nations who judaized with the Hasmonean. He examines the consequences of the Hellenistic influence in the Idumean society, and its implications on their relations with the neighbor Jewish nation, even though in the Bible the Idumean accused in co-operation with Babylon power and the ruin of Jerusalem and the temple in the year 586 BCE.\nThe second part of the book deals with the Nabataeans relations with the Jews from 332 BCE to 70 AD. The relations start with great friendship in the beginning of the Hashmonean period and ends in the Alexander Jannaeus wars and the Roman rule.\nIt is a pioneering monographic research, that was held in the first time by Aryeh Kasher. till his research historians used to study specially the Jewish People and the regime that conquer the country and hardly look for the non Jewish Israel country inhabitants. This because we hardly have national history papers of this nations authors, the archeological finding about them is scarse and the majority of the knowledge we have is from Josephus, who describe them through their relations with the Jewish people.\n\nThe book describes the history of the Jews relating to their relations with the Hellenistic cities in Israel country, in chronological order, during the period from the country conquest by Alexander the Great till the end of the big revolt against the Romans. The Jews saw the citizens of the Hellenistic cities as the heirs of Canaan and the Philistines from the Biblical period, whom the Hasmonean try to distinct, in the spirit of the Biblians saying. with all that accompany political, economical and cultural rival, that gather strength since the Hellenistic period.\n\nPioneers research about Herod the Great. Psychological biography about in collaborate with the psychiatrist professor . The book stands as an antithesis to : \"Herod the Great: the man and his deed\", third edition, Bialik Institute, 1964. In this book Shalit describe Herod as king that contribute a great deal to the Jewish People due to his monumental building enterprises. Kasher choose in his study to another aspect in Herod personality: his murderousness and interpret him as suffer from a paranoid illness.\nKasher's research based on Josephus's writing as a main source of knowledge. He was assisted by professor Witztum that using the psychological research tools in order to decipher the complex personality of Herod and diagnose his illness as inferiority complex, a man that murder his closest relatives and anyone who he suspect by the least sign of treason, including his wife and three sons.\nThe manuscript of the book won the Bahat Prize given for distinguished reference books by the University of Haifa in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8349750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8349750", "title": "Boris Grekov", "text": "Boris Grekov\n\nBoris Dmitrievich Grekov (21 April 1882 in Myrhorod – 9 September 1953 in Moscow) was a Soviet historian noted for his comprehensive studies of Kievan Rus and the Golden Horde. He was a member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences (1934) and several foreign academies, as well as Director of the Russian History Institute in Moscow.\n\nGrekov entered Warsaw University in 1901 but moved to the Moscow University four years later. During the pre-revolutionary years he researched the economic and social history of the Novgorod Republic (published in 1914).\n\nDuring the revolution, Grekov participated in the White Movement in the Crimea, and in 1930, his son was arrested in connection with the \"Platonov Affair\" and sent to the Solovki Islands Penal Colony. Both of these facts were widely known in the 1930s, and this led Grekov to make wide-ranging concessions to the official ideology during the Stalin Purges and, according to A. H. Plakhonin, to write scholarship \"on order\" for the regime.\n\nAt this time, he turned toward the study of Kievan Rus and became known as an opponent of the Ukrainian historian Mykhailo Hrushevsky, who claimed the heritage of Kievan Rus primarily for modern Ukraine. His major work, Kievan Rus appeared in 1939 and was the first of three of his works to win the Stalin Prize. In this work, steeped in Marxist-Leninist and Stalinist ideology, he stressed the agricultural rather than commercial basis of the economy of this polity and argued that the heritage of Kievan Rus was equally shared by modern Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus.\n\nGrekov's extensive research on Kievan Rus provided insights into the economic and cultural development of medieval Rus' during the period of the Tatar domination. He summarized these findings in \"Culture of Kiev Rus\" (1944) and \"Russian Peasants from the Most Ancient Times to the Seventeenth Century\" (1946). But his most lasting work (and the one which is still regularly reprinted) was \"Golden Horde\", written in collaboration with Alexander Yakubovsky and first published in 1937. The second (and now classical) edition appeared in 1950 under the title \"Golden Horde and Its Downfall\".\n\nGrekov also gave considerable attention to the collection and publication of primary sources, especially chronicles. His student, Vladimir Pashuto, carried this work forward and began the collection of foreign sources for the medieval period in the history of the Eastern Slavs.\n\n"}
{"id": "27164853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27164853", "title": "Carel Gerretson", "text": "Carel Gerretson\n\nDoctor Frederik Carel Gerretson (born Kralingen, 9 February 1884 – died Utrecht, 27 October 1958) was a Dutch writer, essayist, historian, and politician.\n\nGerretson was educated in a public elementary school in Rotterdam before continuing his education there and in Amersfoort. He undertook officer training at the Koninklijke Militaire Academie in Breda before switching to academic study at the University of Utrecht, the Solvay Institute of Sociology and the University of Heidelberg.\n\nGerretson was a professor of colonial history at the University of Utrecht. He was particularly interested in the Dutch colonial experience, especially in the Dutch East Indies. In this area he was involved in a noted academic dispute with the historian Annie Romein-Verschoor over the personality of Jan Pieterszoon Coen. Being a Marxist, Romein-Verschoor characterized Coen as an imperialist. Gerretson, a staunch nationalist and supporter of the empire, argued that Coen should be praised. Gerretson suggested that Coen was not widely appreciated because the Dutch people tend to avoid cult of personality.\n\nGerretson also published books on a number of books on the petroleum industry, with works such as \"Geschiedenis der \"Koninklijke\"\" and a history of Royal Dutch, before branching out into other areas. Gerretson had been a secretary and board member at Bataafsche Petroleum Maatschappij, a predecessor of Royal Dutch, since 1917. He was awarded the prestigious Constantijn Huygens Prize in 1950 for his writings. He had also written for a number of newspapers and journals including \"De Groene Amsterdammer\", \"Utrechts Provinciaal en Stedelijk Dagblad\", \"Leeuwarder Courant\", \"Het Vaderland\", \"Nieuwe Rotterdamsche Courant\", \"Algemeen Handelsblad\" and numerous others.\n\nUsing the pseudonym Geerten Gossaert, Gerretson also became noted as a poet with his work \"De moeder\" receiving regular reprints. He also published works under the name Arthur Lawick.\n\nGerretson's nationalist principles led him to politics and he initially was associated with the conservative Calvinist Christian Historical Union (CHU) before moving to the fascist politics of the National Union, of which he was one of the founders in 1925. In 1933 he took the leadership of the 'Corporative Concentration', an attempt to unite the Netherlands' divided extreme right spearheaded by Alfred Haighton, although Gerretson proved a divisive leader as he clashed frequently with Jan Baars. As a consequence Baars and his followers left the movement and the General Dutch Fascist League, which was the main entity in the alliance, collapsed, allowing the initiative to pass to Nazi-inclined elements such as the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands of Anton Mussert and Ernst Herman van Rappard's National Socialist Dutch Workers Party.\n\nGerretson returned to the CHU and became a leading figure in the party at the head of a pro-colonial faction based in Utrecht. A strong voice on the right of the party, noted for his rhetoric, Gerretson would later become an isolated figure within the CHU. He was elected to the Senate of the States-General of the Netherlands in 1951 for the CHU as a representative for South Holland and served in the first parliamentary commission for foreign policy, where he was in disagreement with the spirit of decolonisation that pervaded in the commission. Gerretson was a CHU candidate in the 1956 general election but lost his Senate seat. He was a policy adviser for the party from 1951 to 1955 and was also a regular contributor to the CHU organ \"De Nederlander\".\n"}
{"id": "636251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636251", "title": "Carnatic region", "text": "Carnatic region\n\nThe Carnatic region is the region of peninsular South India lying between the Eastern Ghats and the Western Ghats, in the modern Indian states of Karnataka,Tamil Nadu and southern Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe name 'Carnatic' or 'Karnatic' is originally a Tamil word which means that 'Karai' (கரை) meaning 'shore' and 'nataka' (நாடக) meaning dance. Since the word 'Carnatic' or 'Karnataka' region and music or 'கரை நாடக சங்கீதம் (Tamil)' is the base of Kaveri-based regions during the chola periods (especially developed in the city of Poompuhar (பூம்புகார் ), which was swallowed during a tsunami - remains still can be seen in Tamil Nadu with the same city name) to improve and to integrate Tamil based dance and music. So comes the name 'carnatic' or 'Karnatic' region / zone, as big landscape covering the whole gamut of kaveri based areas in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and some in Andhra Pradesh. This particular dialect has been introduced during the Chola time period as a proof of in 'Carnatic' or 'Karnatic' zone development. In a later stage, this was combined together with Sanskrit words. The music was patronized by Chola, Pandyan, Rashtrakutas and later Vijayanagar kings.\n\nFurther to add, there are several theories as to the derivation of the term. It may derive from the Sanskrit language \"karņāţakam\" from \"karņa\" = \"ear\" + \"aţati\" = \"he pleases\" = \"that which pleases the ear\", thus \"Karnāṭaka saṃgīta\" = \"Karnataka music\", which was coined by Sarangadeva.\n\nAccording to Bishop Robert Caldwell, in his \"Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian Languages\", the term is derived from \"kar\", black, and \"nadu\", country, i.e. the black country, which refers to the black soil prevalent on the plateau of the Southern Deccan.\n\nHattangadi Narayan Rao suggests a derivation from \"karu\", elevated, + \"nadu\", land, \"an elevated land\", also descriptive of the region's geography.\n\nThe English \"Carnatic\" has been classicalised in spelling.\n\nThe region is located in Southern India, between the Western Ghats, Eastern Ghats and the Coromandel Coast, in the Presidency of Madras. Properly the name is, in fact, applicable only to the country of the Kanarese extending between the Eastern and Western Ghats, over an irregular area narrowing northwards, from Palghat in the south to Gulbarga, Bidar in the north, and including Mysore. The extension of the name to the country south of the Karnataka was probably due to the Muslim conquerors who in the 16th century overthrew the kingdom of Vijayanagar, and who extended the name, which they found used of the country north of the Ghats to that south of them. After this period the plain country of the south came to be as called \"Karnataka Payanghat\", or lowlands, as distinguished from \"Karnataka Balaghat\", or highlands. The misapplication of the name Carnatic was carried by the British a step further than by the Mahommedans, it being confined by them to the country below the Ghats, Mysore not being included. Officially, however, this name is no longer applied, the Carnatic having become a mere geographical term. Administratively, the name Carnatic (or rather Karnataka) is now applied only to the Bombay portion of the original Karnataka, viz, the districts of Belgaum, Dharwar and Bijapur, part of Gulbarga district, North Karnataka, and the native states of the Southern Maharashtra agency and Kolhapur.\n\nThe region generally known to Europeans as the Carnatic, though no longer a political or administrative division, is of great historical importance. It extended along the eastern coast about 600 kilometers in length, and from 50 to 100 kilometers in breadth. It was bounded on the north by the Guntur circar, and thence it stretched southward to Cape Comorin. It was divided into the Southern, Central and Northern Carnatic. The region south of the river Coleroon, which passes the town of Trichinopoly, was called the \"Southern Carnatic\". The principal towns of this division were Tanjore, Trichinopoly, Madurai, Tranquebar, Negapatam and Tinnevelly. The \"Central Carnatic\" extended from the Coleroon river to the river Pennar; its chief towns being Madras, Pondicherry, Arcot, Vellore, Cuddalore, Pulicat, Nellore and a few other towns. The \"Northern Carnatic\" extended from the river Pennar to the northern limit of the country; and the chief town was Ongole. The Carnatic, as above defined, comprehended within its limits the maritime provinces of Nellore, Chingleput, South Arcot, Tanjore, Madura and Tinnevelly, besides the inland districts of North Arcot and Trichinopoly. The population of this region consists chiefly of Brahmanical Hindus. Mahommedans are thinly scattered over the country.\n\nAt the earliest period of which any records exist, the area now known as the Carnatic was divided between the Pandya and Chola kingdoms, which with that of Chera dynasty or Kerala formed the three Tamil kingdoms of southern India. The Pandya kingdom practically coincided in extent with the districts of Madura and Tinnevelly; that of the Cholas extended along the Coromandel coast from Nellore to Pudukottai, being bounded on the north by the Pennar River (Penner River) and on the south by the Southern Vellaru.\n\nThe government of the area was shared for centuries with these dynasties by numerous independent or semi-independent chiefs, evidence of whose perennial internecine conflicts is preserved in the multitudes of forts and fortresses, the deserted ruins of which crown almost all the elevated points. In spite, however, of this passion of the military classes for war, the Tamil civilization developed in the country was of a high type. This was largely due to the wealth of the country, famous in the earliest times as now for its pearl fisheries. Of this fishery Korkai (the Greek KhXxot), now a village on the Tambraparni River in Tinnevelly, but once the Pandya capital, was the centre long before the Christian era.\n\nIn Pliny's day, owing to the silting up of the harbour, its glory had already decayed and the Pandya capital had been removed to Madura, famous later as a centre of Tamil literature. The Chola kingdom, which four centuries before Christ had been recognized as independent by the Maurya king Ashoka, had for its chief port Kaviripaddinam at the mouth of the Kauvery, every vestige of which is now buried in sand.\n\nFor the first two centuries after Christ, a large sea-borne trade was carried on between the Roman empire and the Tamil kingdoms; but after Caracalla's massacre at Alexandria in A.D. 215, this ceased, and with it all intercourse with Europe for centuries also. Henceforward, until the 9th century, the history of the country is illustrated only by occasional and broken lights.\n\nThe 4th century saw the rise of the Pallava power, which for some 400 years encroached on, without extinguishing, the Tamil kingdoms. When in A.D. 640 the Chinese traveller Hsuan Tsang visited Kanchi (Conjevaram), the capital of the Pallava king, he learned that the kingdom of Chola (Chu-li-ya) embraced but a small territory, wild, and inhabited by a scanty and fierce population; in the Pandya kingdom (Malakuta), which was under Pallava suzerainty, literature was dead, Buddhism all but extinct, while Hinduism and the naked Jain saints divided the religious allegiance of the people, and the pearl fisheries continued to flourish.\n\nThe power of the Pallava kings was shaken by the victory of Vikramaditya Chalukya in AD 740, and shattered by Aditya Chola at the close of the 9th century. From this time onward, the inscriptional records are abundant. The Chola Dynasty, which in the 9th century had been weak, now revived, its power culminating in the victories of Rajaraja the Great, who defeated the Chalukyas after a four years war, and, about AD 994, forced the Pandya kings to become his tributaries. A magnificent temple at Tanjore, once his capital, preserves the records of his victories engraved upon its walls. His career of conquest was continued by his son Rajendra Choladeva I, self-styled Gangaikonda owing to his victorious advance to the Ganges, who succeeded to the throne in AD 1018. The ruins of the new capital which he built, called Gangaikonda Cholapuram, still stand in a desolate region of the Trichinopoly district. His successors continued the eternal wars with the Chalukyas and other dynasties, and the Chola power continued in the ascendant until the death of Kulottunga Chola III in 1278, when a disputed succession caused its downfall and gave the Pandyas the opportunity of gaining for a few years the upper hand in the south.\n\nIn 1310, however, the Mahommedan invasion under Malik Kafur overwhelmed the Hindu states of southern India in a common ruin. Though crushed, however, they were not extinguished; a period of anarchy followed, the struggle between the Chola kings and the Mussulmans issuing in the establishment at Kanchi of a usurping Hindu dynasty which ruled till the end of the 14th century, while in 1365 a branch of the Pandyas succeeded in re-establishing itself in part of the kingdom of Madura, where it survived till 1623.\n\nAt the beginning of the 15th century, the whole country had come under the rule of the kings of Vijayanagar; but in the anarchy that followed the overthrow of the Vijayanagar empire by the Mussulmans in the 16th century, the Hindu viceroys (nayakkas) established in Madura, Tanjore and Kanchi made themselves independent, only in their turn to become tributary to the kings of Golconda and Bijapur, who divided the Carnatic between them.\n\nTowards the close of the 17th century, the country was reduced by the armies of Aurangzeb, who in 1692 appointed Zulfikar Ali, Nawab of the Carnatic, with his seat at Arcot.Meanwhile, the Marathas power had begun to develop; in 1677 Shivaji had suppressed the last remnants of the Vijayanagar power in Vellore, Gingee and Kurnool, while his brother Venkoji, who in 1674 had overthrown the Nayaks of Tanjavur, established in that city a dynasty which lasted for a century. The collapse of the Delhi power after the death of Aurangzeb produced further changes. The Nawab Saadet-Allah of Arcot (1710–1732) established his independence; his successor Dost Ali (1732–1740) conquered and annexed Madura in 1736, and his successors were confirmed in their position as Nawabs of the Carnatic by the Nizam of Hyderabad after that potentate had established his power in southern India. After the death of Nawab Mahommed Anwar-ud-din (1744–1749), the succession was disputed between Mahommed Ali and Husein Dost. In this quarrel, the French and English, then competing for influence in the Carnatic, took opposite sides. The victory of the British established Mahommed Ali in power over part of the Carnatic till his death in 1795. Meanwhile, however, the country had been exposed to other troubles. In 1741 Madura, which the Nawab Dost Ali (1732–1740) had added to his dominions in 1736 after the demise of the Nayaks of Madurai, was conquered by the marathas; and in 1743 Hyder Ali of Mysore overran and ravaged the central Carnatic.The latter was re-conquered by the British, to whom Madura had fallen in 1758; and, finally, in 1801 all the possessions of the Nawab of the Carnatic were transferred to them by a treaty which stipulated that an annual revenue of several lakhs of pagodas should be reserved to the nawab, and that the British should undertake to support a sufficient civil and military force for the protection of the country and the collection of the revenue. On the death of the nawab in 1853, it was determined to put an end to the nominal sovereignty, a liberal establishment being provided for the family.\n\nThe Carnatic region, when first entered into by the British, was ruled by military chieftains called Poligars. In 1805, after the decisive defeat of the Poligars, the Poligar forts and military establishments were destroyed.\n\nCarnatic region was place of Carnatic Wars between Mughan Empire, Britain and France which were ultimately led to British victory and the domination of British Empire over India.\n\n"}
{"id": "13443179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13443179", "title": "Donna Maguire", "text": "Donna Maguire\n\nDonna Maguire (born c. 1967 in Newry, County Down, Northern Ireland) is a former volunteer in the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) once described as Europe's most dangerous woman.\n\nA former convent girl from Newry, Maguire joined the IRA and, according to \"The Independent\" newspaper, was trained by Dessie Grew. In early 1989 she travelled to Europe as part of an IRA active service unit based in The Hague and Hanover. On 12 July 1989 Maguire and Leonard Hardy were arrested at Rosslare, County Wexford after arriving on a ferry from Cherbourg, and mercury switches, explosives and photographs of British Army bases in Germany were seized. At their trial at the Special Criminal Court in Dublin in February 1990 Maguire was acquitted of possession of explosives, but Hardy was sentenced to five years imprisonment. German authorities had requested Maguire's extradition in relation to a bombing at a British Army barracks at Osnabrück on 19 June 1989 and the killing of a British soldier in a car bomb attack in Hanover several days later, but she was not re-arrested when she left court and she immediately returned to Europe.\n\nMaguire was arrested in Belgium near the border with the Netherlands on 16 June 1990, after a farmer reported hearing gunshots in woods and two handguns, a machine gun and explosives were found nearby. A second IRA member was arrested with Maguire but escaped across the border before being captured by Dutch police, who also arrested a second man who had been travelling with Maguire. Maguire was extradited to the Netherlands on 6 December 1990. In March 1991 she was acquitted of the murder of two Australian tourists mistaken for off-duty British soldiers in Roermond in May 1990, a decision which was upheld at an appeal in July of the same year. On 7 October 1991 Maguire was extradited to Germany.\n\nWhile on trial in Düsseldorf on charges relating to the June 1990 murder of a British soldier in Dortmund, German authorities announced on 16 November 1992 she was also being charged with attempted murder over the 1989 Osnabrück bombing. On 9 June 1994 Maguire and three other IRA members were acquitted of the Dortmund murder although the judge said it was \"clear they are members of the IRA and trained as IRA volunteers\", and also acquitted of involvement in the May 1990 bombing of a British Army base in Hanover. She was remanded into custody to await trial on other charges relating to the 1989 Osnabrück bombing, and in June 1995 received a nine-year prison sentence after being found guilty of attempted murder, explosives offences and spying on British Army bases in Germany with intent to sabotage. Due to the length of time spent in custody on remand—during the trial Maguire became the longest-serving remand prisoner in German legal history—Maguire walked free from court.\n\nOn 17 January 1996 Maguire received £13,500 compensation due to a 1985 accident in Newry, when she tripped due to a broken paving stone. She told the court \"I have had to give up dancing, jogging and swimming because the ankle swells up. I can't wear high heels and the ankle is not very stable when I walk on rough ground or gravel\". The compensation award was described as a disgrace by Ulster Unionist Party MP Ken Maginnis, and Conservative Party MP David Wilshire said it was shocking and obscene and called for the law to be changed. Colin Parry, who received £7,500 after the death of his 12-year-old son in the Warrington bomb attacks, called for a review of the compensation system saying \"It's a kick in the teeth. Every time these judgments come along, it reminds us how little society appears to value a child's life\".\n\nMaguire married Hardy in County Louth in July 1996, and they have three children. Hardy was arrested in August 2005 while on a family holiday in Torremolinos, Spain and extradited to Germany in January 2006 to face charges over his role in the 1989 Osnabrück bombing. In April 2006 Hardy was found guilty of attempted murder and deliberately causing an explosion and was sentenced to six years imprisonment. It later transpired Hardy was not sent to prison and had left the court via a side door with Maguire, and a spokesperson for the Federal Ministry of Justice issued a statement saying that \"Leonard Hardy is not in detention\".\n\nIn January 2015, It was announced that Leonard Hardy and Maguire had been arrested by Spanish police in Lanzarote last week as part of an investigation into money laundering and smuggling. Five other people were also arrested and 11 searches were carried out in the provinces of Las Palmas, Alicante, Málaga and Murcia. They said it involved properties with an estimated value of 10.5 million euros.\n"}
{"id": "35723982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35723982", "title": "Early Kurdish nationalism", "text": "Early Kurdish nationalism\n\nThe nationalist movement among the Kurdish people first emerged in the late 19th century with an uprising in 1880 led by Sheik Ubeydullah. Many Kurds worked with other opponents of the Ottoman regime within the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP). A growth in ethnic consciousness at the start of the 20th century was spearheaded by the Society for the Advancement of Kurdistan (SAK). Some Kurdish nationalist groups agitated for secession, others for autonomy.\n\nDuring the First World War, while some Kurdish nationalists were working with the British and Russian enemy powers, Kurdish tribal forces were fighting alongside Ottoman troops on the Russian front. Deaths and displacements occurred on a large scale among Kurdish civilians due to wartime conditions and deliberate ethnic cleansing policies.\n\nThere was a brief opportunity for Kurdish nationalism after World War I with the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire. Western powers (particularly the United Kingdom) promised the Kurds they would act as guarantors for Kurdish freedom, a promise they subsequently broke. Some of the autonomist Kurdish groups received British support leading up to the Treaty of Sèvres (1920), which prepared for local autonomy for the Kurdish regions and envisaged later independence. Opposition from Kemal Atatürk, leader of the new nation-state of Turkey, and changes in British policy, prevented such a result. Following the Treaty of Lausanne (1923) the Kurdish territory was partitioned between Turkey, the French mandate of Syria, the British mandate of Iraq, and Persia.\n\nThe nationalist movement among the Kurds first emerged in the late 19th century with an uprising led by a Kurdish landowner and head of the powerful Şemdinan family, Sheik Ubeydullah. In 1880, Ubeydullah demanded political autonomy or outright independence for Kurds and the recognition of a Kurdistan state separate from both the Ottoman Empire and Qajar Persia. The uprising was suppressed by the Ottomans.\n\nThe first Kurds to challenge the authority of the Ottoman Empire did so primarily as Ottoman subjects, rather than Kurds. They worked with other Turks and Ottoman subjects who were in opposition to the policies of Sultan Abdul Hamid and in 1889 formed the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP). Abdul Hamid responded with a policy of repression, but also of integration, co-opting prominent Kurdish opponents into the Ottoman power structure with prestigious positions in his government. This strategy appears successful given the loyalty displayed by the Kurdish Hamidiye regiments during World War I.\n\nIn the first decade of the 20th century, Kurdish nationalism was still an ambiguous, controversial, or unfamiliar concept for many Kurds. Educated Kurds, primarily from Istanbul, sought a political solution largely within the confines of the Ottoman Empire and one that did not rest solely on an ethnic basis. That kind of identity was related with a more tribal consciousness; one that lacked sophistication for many. Others had much to lose if the status quo was altered. For many, this stemmed from a religious concern, where the Sultan had long brought Muslims under a secure Caliphate. Others, particularly tribal chieftains, had economic concerns. Still other Kurds, especially those outside of Anatolia, lacked understanding of nationalism or were simply unaware and unaffected.\n\nAn organization known as the Kürdistan Teali Cemiyeti (Society for the Advancement of Kurdistan, or SAK) was central to the forging of a distinct Kurdish identity. It took advantage of the period of political liberalization during the Second Constitutional Era (1908–1920) of Turkey to transform a renewed interest in Kurdish culture and language into a political nationalist movement based on ethnicity. The emphasis on the Kurdish people as a distinct ethnic group was encouraged around the start of the 20th century by Russian anthropologists who suggested that the Kurds were a European race (compared to the Asiatic Turks), based on physical characteristics and their language which is part of the Indo-European language group. Based more on this ethno-nationalistic standpoint, two prominent Kurdish families, the Badr Khans and the Sayyids, renewed opposition to the empire. These clans founded the first two strains of Kurdish nationalism. The Badr Khans were secessionists while the Sayyids of Nihiri were autonomists.\n\nOperating within the autonomist framework, Shaykh Abd al Qadir in 1910 appealed to the Committee on Union and Progress (which, after the 1908 Young Turk Revolution, now held the power of the government after deposing Sultan Abd al Hamid) for an autonomous Kurdish state in the east. That same year, Said Nursi traveled through the Diyarbakir region and urged Kurds to unite and forget their differences, while still carefully claiming loyalty to the CUP. Other Kurdish Shaykhs in the region began leaning towards regional autonomy.\n\nDuring this time, the Badr Khans had been in contact with discontented Shaykhs and chieftains in the far east of Anatolia ranging to the Iranian border, more in the framework of secession, however. Shaykh Abd al Razzaq Badr Khan eventually formed an alliance with Shaykh Taha and Shaykh Abd al Salam Barzani, another powerful family in Kurdistan. Because of this possible Kurdish threat as well as the alliance's dealings with Russia, Ottoman troops moved against this alliance in 1914. Two brief and minor rebellions, the rebellions of Barzan and Bitlis, were quickly suppressed.\n\nThe problem for these early Kurdish rebels was one of coordination. The British vice-consul in Bitlis reported that \"Could the Kurds combine against the government even in one province, the Turkish troops in their eastern part of Asia Minor would find it difficult to crush the revolt.\" (p. 101) \n\nThe outbreak of World War I was a powerful check to growing Kurdish nationalism. However, some Kurds continued to work behind the scenes for an independent Kurdistan. These represent some of the first attempts by Kurds to work with foreign powers against Turks for their autonomy. In 1914, General Muhammad Sharif Pasha offered his services to the British in Mesopotamia. Elsewhere, members of the Badr Khan family held close relations with Russian officials and discussed their intentions to form an independent Kurdistan.\n\nMeanwhile, the conflict between Kurds and Armenians in the east raged. Kurds were threatened with punishment by Ottoman authorities if they did not obey orders to evict or kill the Armenians. In rare instances, Kurds spared their Christian victims and protected them because they were neighbors with whom they had held cordial relations. It is difficult to accept that the struggle was a purely ethnic one. The Armenians, it was reasoned, presented a real threat for many Kurds, especially the farther one went east. Armenians, after all, had relationships with the hostile European powers and Russia. According to David McDowall, \"most Kurds involved in the massacres probably felt it was a question of 'them or us'\". (p. 105) \n\nKurds contributed significantly to the Ottoman Empire's war effort. Tribal forces served against the Russian army in Persia and Turkey. Kurdish battle casualties are estimated at 300,000. However, the effect of the war on the Kurdish populated areas was more severe. Many regions throughout Kurdistan were laid waste and their populations decimated by advancing and retreating troop forces. Furthermore, as the war continued, the Young Turks implemented large scale ethnic cleansing of both Armenians and Kurds, including the deportation of Kurds from Erzurum and Bitlis in the winter of 1916. By the end of World War I, up to 700,000 Kurds had been forcibly deported and almost half of the displaced perished. Nevertheless, at this time the Ottoman Kurds still had the legal right to conduct their affairs in Kurdish, celebrate unique traditions, and identify themselves as a distinct ethnic group.\n\nThe Kurdish ethnonationalist movement that emerged following World War I and the end of the Ottoman Empire was largely in reaction to the changes taking place in mainstream Turkey, primarily radical secularization which the strongly Muslim Kurds abhorred, centralization of authority which threatened the power of local chieftains and Kurdish autonomy, and rampant Turkish nationalism in the new Turkish Republic which obviously threatened to marginalize them.\n\nIn 1918, the prominent Kurdish nationalist Şerif Pasha pressed the British to adopt a policy supporting autonomous Kurdish regions throughout Kurdistan. He suggested that British officials be charged with appointing officials to administer the regions and control their finances. Strategically, he desired movement towards this plan to be made before the end of the war and the Paris Peace Conference. Şerif was not able to convince the British of this. However, his efforts to plead the cause of his people leading up to the Peace Conference impressed Western powers. Because of his friendship with Armenians, after he was chosen to represent the Kurds by various Kurdish nationalist organizations at the Peace Conference, a Kurdo-Armenian peace accord was reached between Şerif and Armenian representatives at the conference in 1919. The British persuaded the Kurdish and Armenian representatives to sign this Kurdish-Armenian declaration of solidarity against the Kemalists for strategic reasons. The British thought this would increase the likelihood of independent Kurdish and Armenian states that would create a buffer between British Mesopotamia and the Turks.\n\nThe first opportunity for the Kurds to establish an independent state came with the collapse of the Ottoman Empire and the end of the First World War. In his Fourteen Points Programme for World Peace, US President Woodrow Wilson included the statement that non-Turkish minorities of the Ottoman Empire should be \"assured of an absolute unmolested opportunity of autonomous development\". Aside from the supporters of such sentiments in the US, Britain, France, and of course of Kurds, there were other aspects to consider. These included the operational breakup of the Ottoman Empire, the Kemalist movement, Russia's territorial ambitions, the status of the Christian Armenian population, and Britain's desire to preserve stability in and around its colonial possessions.\n\nTurkish forces often broke the terms of the Armistice by arming Kurdish forces in eastern Anatolia. Turkish forces were able to stir up religious resentment among Kurds against Christian Armenians in a desire to create an effective Kurdish buffer between Turkey and a possible Armenian state, or obviate its creation altogether. Much of this groundwork was performed by 'Ali Ihsan Pasha.\n\nElsewhere, anti-British sentiment was developed by 'Ali Beg and his Turco-Kurdish independence party, and the Kurdish Club, which Edward William Charles Noel claimed was plagued with corruption and self-seeking individuals who were also members of the Turkish CUP.\n\nFollowing the Treaty of Mudros, Istanbul's Kurds began resurrecting their nationalist groups. By the end of 1918, Shaykh Abd al Qadir of the Badr Khans and others reconstituted the Kurdish Club under the new title of The Society for the Rise of Kurdistan. But to many, including the British, it was unclear exactly who and what the Kurdish Club and its affiliates in the provinces represented.\n\nUnderstanding the threat that these renewed Kurdish clubs represented if allied with the British (who had by now made it clear that they were leaning towards providing an autonomous Kurdish state), the CUP began advocating policies of decentralization and penetrated these Kurdish clubs in order to maintain their loyalty. Furthermore, Kurdish nationalism was then tactically supported in eastern regions. While inspiring Sunni solidarity among the Kurds, they worked to foment anti-British sentiment among the Kurds.\n\nBy 1919, two developments destroyed Kurdish hopes of achieving either autonomy or independence in eastern Anatolia. The Greeks landed at Smyrna and the Italians invaded further south in Antalya. The psychological effect that these foreign, Christian invasions had on the Muslim Kurdish population was significant and inevitable. Ideas of nationalism were instantly eclipsed by the Christian threat and the Ottoman government easily mobilized Kurds under Pan-Islamic unity. The second disaster was the rise of Mustafa Kemal. He militantly voiced concern for the safety of the sultanate and called for the preservation of eastern Anatolia against the Christian threat. This likewise had a similar effect on Kurds. Kemalist power grew throughout 1919. With this growth, came persecution of the Kurds and the narrowing of Kurdish political space. A new Kurdish political party was refused registration. Newspapers related calls for Kurdish independence with that of supporting Armenian nationalism as well. Outspoken Kurds were imprisoned or executed for treasonous statements. In 1920, the National Pact was signed.\n\nLeading up to the Treaty of Sèvres, in addition to the inability of Kurds to produce a credible leadership, a big failure in reaching a better understanding of an autonomous Kurdish state was due simply to the amount of time that passed between Mudros in 1918 and Sèvres in 1920. Kurds were provided with little alternative by the British. After the Greek attempts in Anatolia, the rise of the Kemalists, and a growing perceived Armenian threat, Anatolian Kurds lacked nationalistic, secessionist desires.\nThe Treaty was signed between the Allied powers and the government in Istanbul, despite the growing power and authority of the government and the authority of the Grand National Assembly in Ankara. The government in Istanbul was compelled to sign the Treaty even though they themselves strongly disapproved of the terms.\n\nIn the eyes of the Kurds, the treaty had its flaws. The treaty excluded the Kurdish territories in Syria, the part of the Dersim region lying west of the Euphrates, and the failure to demarcate a boundary between the Kurds and the Armenians. However, these flaws were minor and dominated by \"the fundamental fact that the treaty had been forced upon an unwilling and token government that lacked a constituency even in Istanbul.\" (p. 137)\n\nSection III of the treaty includes all information related to the issue of an autonomous state of Kurdistan in articles 62 – 64. Under article 62, British, French, and Italian officials were assigned to draft within six months of the implementation of the treaty \"a scheme of local autonomy for the predominantly Kurdish areas\". Article 64 explicitly states that Kurdish regions have the right to proclaim independence from Turkey or other regions ruled over by the Principal Allied Powers in any part of Kurdistan.\n\nThe Treaty of Sèvres was signed on August 10, 1920. Supporters of the Kurdish military leader Colonel Halid Beg Cibran and other Kurdish nationalists began advocating against the Kemalists and Turkish nationalist sentiments in fear that those sentiments would betray their own interests in an independent Kurdistan. Halid Beg Cibran traveled throughout parts of eastern Anatolia garnering support for his cause, at times using violent coercion against non-supportive Kurdish Alevi tribes.\n\nElsewhere, the Koçgiri rebellion fully erupted in the Dersim region in November 1920. During this time, the Kemalist government in Ankara was attempting to influence Kurds to join the Turkish nationalistic cause by offering jobs and bribes. Throughout 1920, Kurdish organizers in the Dersim region were increasingly successful in tribal organization for an autonomous Kurdistan against the Kemalists, even though many in the region supported the Kemalists. During the summer months, Kurdish armed forces in the region began attacking Turkish ammunition sites and police stations. By November, three months after the signing of the Treaty of Sèvres, Kurds were demanding official recognition for their autonomy. However, winter stifled their ability to organize and armed operations ceased. During this time, Kemalists were able to surround the region and co-opt many Kurdish tribal leaders and bring them into the Kemalist camp.\n\nClashes erupted again as early as January 1921. With their new position of advantage, Turkish Kemalists arrested and deported Kurdish nationalists and demanded the unconditional surrender of the Kurdish forces that they met, threatening the destruction of their villages if they did not cooperate. Yet, Kurdish forces won several important battles and gained important footholds in the region by March. These successes prompted an increased response from Ankara. By April, the Kurdish rebellion was decisively put down. Reasons behind the Koçgiri rebellion were both ideological and strategic. The main reason for Kurdish support for the rebellion was in order to implement articles 62-64 of the Treaty of Sèvres and increase their autonomy in Kurdish Anatolia. Strategically, Kurdish organizers and forces in the region thought they could take advantage of the fledgling Kemalist government as well as its preoccupation with the Greek conflict in the west. The Kurds severely miscalculated in this last respect. There is also evidence that they anticipated foreign support from the French, British, or Greeks. But there is no evidence that they received any. Some Kurdish forces disagreed with requesting foreign support against the Turks as well.\n\nThere are four main reasons that the Koçgiri rebellion failed. Firstly, the Kurds received no outside European support. Secondly, the tribal nature of Kurdish society allowed the Kemalists to co-opt tribes and break up the unity of the movement. Thirdly, there were religious and sectarian differences among Kurds (primarily Sunni and Alevi differences) that created mistrust and a weak unity. Lastly, the Turks' military, organizational, and patronage power was overwhelmingly superior. It should also be noted that it is unlikely that any of the tribes involved in the revolt had battle experience in World War I. Most of the Kurdish Hamidiye regiments that fought in the Balkans under the Ottoman flag lived further east and south. The Kocgiri rebellion was also located near Ankara was relatively accessible by Turkish forces.\n\nThe Koçgiri rebellion had a significant impact on the government of Ankara. The government continued its policy of attempting to win over Kurdish tribal leaders but set up special commissions to investigate the rebellion. A draft law came before the Grand National Assembly in February 1922 that dealt with administering the Kurdish regions. Because of its superficial nature in dealing with Kurdish autonomy, most Kurdish deputies in the Grand National Assembly opposed it. In his analysis of the draft law, Rober Olson claims that Kurdish opposition to the law reveals that these Kurdish Kemalists were hopeful of obtaining greater autonomy for the Kurds. He also claims that the draft law and its overwhelming majority support reveals that at the time Turks in the Assembly did not favor a violent policy towards the Kurds, but that they \"did not remotely consider independence or even autonomy in any meaningful sense of that term\" for the Kurds (p. 41).\n\nFirst direct contact with Kurds in Iraq and British was in 1917 after the British occupied Khanaqin and later other regions in the north of present Iraq, including Kifri, Tuz Khurmatu, and Kirkuk. In 1918, the first Kurdish troops to fight against the Turks were employed by the British. After further British success in the region, Kurdish tribal leaders were impressed and sought to cast their support behind the British effort. Kurdish notables, including Shaykh Mahmud, agreed that they would further seek support from the British for an autonomous state under the British occupied territory.\n\nThe Kurdish enthusiasm was not matched by the British. They began withdrawing from Kirkuk and the surrounding regions in May 1918. These areas were promptly reoccupied by Turkish forces. This reoccupation by Turkish forces resulted in much retribution for the Kurds in the region. The British withdrawal was a severe blow to British prestige and ridiculed Kurdish leaders who had spoken in support of the British. Kurds would remain suspicious and doubtful of British power and their intention years after World War I ended.\n\nIndeed, Turkish propaganda against the British was not limited to just Eastern Anatolia and Persia. They had a strong presence in the Mosul \"wilayat\" of south Kurdistan. In 'Amadiya, Kurds were more easily influenced against the British because the British were a new, foreign presence in their land. Many Kurdish chieftains in the region, far from Istanbul, preferred the old scheme of things under the Ottomans, where they had enjoyed semi-autonomy. New administrative measures under the British, including the collection of taxes and the repatriation of Assyrian refugees agitated the 'Amadiya Kurds. After this agitation and pressure by Turkish inciters, Kurds in the region revolted against the British. This revolt was summarily put down, however, by 1919. Minor revolts of this kind broke out sporadically over the coming years in the Mosul region.\n\nDuring the conflict between Kemalists and the Kurds and the Turkish war of independence in the 1920s many Kurds fled to Syria from Turkey to escape oppression. These refugees settled mainly in the Jazira region of northern Syria where formerly nomadic Kurds had already settled decades earlier and become agriculturalists. Unified Kurdish political activity in Syria was relatively undeveloped and sparse. During the Turkish war of independence, Kurdish tribes in Jazira assisted French forces in repelling Turkish advances. The French at this time had considered the creation of a Kurdish enclave stretching from Urfa in the west to Cizre in the east.\n\nFrench policies of decentralization benefited many Kurds in this region at the time because of the increased local power they were given. However, Kurds in Syria were not unified in this position. Many wealthy Kurds in Damascus supported the central authority and status quo under the Ottoman Turks and were not supportive of French decentralization. Other Kurdish tribes supported Syrian independence from the French alongside Arab tribes. This diversity in opinion regarding Kurdish autonomy and relations with the French \"hindered the development of Kurdish nationalist political activity in Syria.\" (p. 28).\n\nBritish policy towards the Kurds changed several times between the years of 1918 and 1923, the years between the Armistice of Mudros and the Treaty of Lausanne. The common historical argument is that the abrogation of the Treaty of Sèvres was a result of the success of Kemalist forces and militant Turkish nationalism. However, the evolution of British policy towards the Kurds eventually ran counter to the implementation of articles 62-64 of the Treaty of Sèvres.\n\nAfter the armistice of Mudros and until the signing of the Treaty of Sèvres in August 1920, British policy toward the Kurds was that of supporting autonomous units throughout Kurdistan. Kurdish nationalism and autonomy throughout Kurdish populated regions was supported heavily by British intelligence agent Edward William Charles Noel during this time. But the growing strength of Turkish nationalist forces by 1920 undermined Noel's policy ambitions, especially in the north.\n\nThe British grew further hesitant to establish a \"quasi-autonomous\" independent Kurdistan in the south because of the possibility that the French would respond by establishing a similar state with French advisers in the north.\n\nAfter World War I and after full Turkish evacuation of southern Kurdistan, Britain reached an agreement with Sheikh Mahmud Barzanji and other Kurdish notables on what was later called 'The Tribal System' or 'The Sandeman System' named after Sir Robert Groves Sandeman. It was based on the principle of indirect rule. Tribal chieftains were entrusted with the government of their own tribes and were made responsible for British administrative duties through Sheikh Mahmud. They were recognized and paid as British government officials. This region of south Kurdistan became known as the South Kurdish Confederation. Many other Kurdish tribes soon agreed to join this system. After years of war and struggle, they were eager to join a peaceful settlement that might offer them protection and financial support.\n\nThis system eventually fell apart due to disagreements between Sheikh Mahmud and the British. The British had created quite a powerful Kurdish leader through their financial support. Sheikh Mahmud developed a very opportunistic strategy towards the British. After building up so much power in the region, Sheikh Mahmud eventually started an all out rebellion against the British after they attempted to curb his unruly behavior. The Sheikh and his followers were defeated in June 1919.\n\nThe Sheikh by no means commanded the support of all Kurds in the confederation. The Sheikh's call to arms against the British under nationalism and Islam proved mostly futile. Kurds in southern Kurdistan were too unfamiliar with the concept of nationalism. And their past experiences under the Sultan with jihad during World War I for four years against the British had proved a failure.\n\nAn aspect that ultimately spelled the downfall for a British policy supporting an autonomous Kurdistan was the Air Scheme policy. This policy of using primarily the Royal Air Force as the dominant military presence in Mesopotamia was experimental at the time. The Air Scheme was popular among British policymakers. The biggest proponents of the Air Scheme were also among the biggest supporters of a \"Greater Iraq.\" The preference in early 1920 strategy was to include southern Kurdistan under the auspices of the British Air Scheme. British policy at this point still regarded northern Kurdistan as would be described in articles 62-64 of the Treaty of Sèvres.\n\nHowever, in policy meetings that took place in Cairo in March 1921 British policy towards the Kurds was altered. The newly formed Middle East Department concluded that \"purely Kurdish areas should not be included in the Arab state of Mesopotamia\". The framers of this policy stated that Kurdish areas would be put under control of the British High Commission and not under control of any Iraqi government. Noel and others supported this position because they thought Kurds would prefer rule closer to home and rule that was not under Arabs or Turks. This position was also thought to be strategic because an autonomous Kurdistan would create a buffer between the Turks outside of Iraq as well as anti-British movements within Iraq. Winston Churchill, the Secretary of Colonies at the time, agreed with these sentiments and this position. Churchill also feared that a future ruler of Iraq would oppress the Kurdish minority.\n\nIn the end, this policy was reversed largely by the work of Sir Percy Cox, the first High Commissioner of Iraq. Over time, Cox became convinced that it was best to include southern Kurdistan as an integral part of Iraq, for financial and fiscal purposes. Under the impression that such a policy would not go against the policy adopted in Cairo, Churchill agreed to this new policy. Correspondence shows that Churchill still assumed that the only link between the southern Kurdish regions and Iraq would be through the British High Commission.\n\nAs Turkish forces grew in strength and militancy, Cox began dealing with King Faisal I of Iraq in determining how Kurds in southern Kurdistan should be incorporated into Iraq territorially and politically. Cox and Faysal devised a policy whereby Kurdish regions could decide whether or not to join Iraq politically instead of merely territorially under the High Commission. Cox claimed that two out of the four of these defined Kurdish districts wished to become part of Iraq. Churchill was convinced and went along with the policy and Cox's dealings with Faysal.\n\nAfter the Armistice, Kurdish nationalistic sentiments grew in Persian Kurdistan where before it had few adherents. This was due in part to the Ottoman Sultan's support. These pan-Islamic policies were designed to win over the Kurds in the region in the possibility of using them as a barrier against the Russians or Armenians.\n\nHowever, Kurdish nationalism grew in other environments. In 1918, members of the Mukri tribe of the Mahabad region were in talks with British officials discussing a possible scheme for an independent Kurdish state under British protection. Like Sharif Pasha, these individuals stressed their desire for autonomy and a desire to reach a peace agreement with the Armenians.\n\nLater in 1921, the Persian Kurd, Simko Shikak pursued a different strategy. Simko dealt directly with Persian and Russian officials. He became impatient with Persia's unwillingness to act on granting Kurdish autonomy, and so rebelled in 1922. In the Persian operations against Simko's rebellion, Turkish armies provided valuable support. The rebellion was quickly put down. Following this rebellion, however, Major Noel tried, unsuccessfully, to bring together Simko and other Kurdish nationalist leaders, including Shaykh Mahmud. The object was to create a Kurdish alliance to frustrate Turkish designs. No agreement was reached between these leaders.\n\nAfter it became apparent how vehemently the government in Ankara opposed the Treaty of Sèvres and with the rising power of the Kemalists, Major Noel and the British began seriously considering supporting a Kurdish rebellion. The fear that the rebellion might not be controllable resulted in the plan's abandonment.\n\nThis plan was revived, however, in 1921 after Kemalist troops were found meddling with tribes south of the Armistice line. British policymakers again began contemplating assisting a wide-scale Kurdish rebellion against the Turks in order to counter their growing strength and influence in the region. There were many drawbacks to this plan. This would reflect negatively on King Faysal of Iraq, as weapons would come to northern Kurdistan via Iraq. If the revolt failed, it was thought that the British in Iraq would face a massive amount of Kurdish refugees. There was also the constant worry that Kurdish leaders were unreliable and the Kurdish forces were not unified. But the French had reached an agreement with the government in Ankara on the basis of the National Pact rather than the Treaty of Sèvres. This was done after the Greeks seemed likely to lose against the Turks. France ceded much of its previously occupied land in southern Anatolia, thus providing the Kemalists with the ideal assembly point for an assault on British occupied Iraq. This caused the British to re-evaluate the plausibility of their plans to foment rebellion among the Kurds against the Turks.\n\nYet it still appeared that the British favored Kurdish autonomy in Iraq when they issued a Joint Declaration with the Iraqi government in 1922 that was communicated to the League of Nations. It recognized the right of the Kurds to form a government within the borders of Iraq.\n\nIn the end, as Kemalist forces spread and grew in strength, \"the British desire for peace with Turkey, on the best terms for itself, of course, subordinated Britain's Kurdish policy to this objective.\" (p. 81). It became desirable for the British to negotiate peace with Turkey on much different terms than those of the Treaty of Sèvres.\nOn 24 July 1923, the Treaty of Lausanne was signed between the British, their allies, and the Turks. The treaty failed to mention the Kurds, even though they made up around 1/3rd of the population of Turkey in the new borders and contained 48.5 percent of the total Kurdish population.\n\nBorders between Turkey and Iraq were to be decided between Great Britain and Turkey within nine months of the implementation of the treaty. Kurdish leaders did petition the League of Nations and Britain for the recognition of Kurdish autonomy during negotiations on the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923. In the end, the League of Nations abandoned ethnic considerations in favor of economic and strategic ones. Kurdish territory in modern-day Iraq was granted to Iraq, under British control. The Kurdish regions were fully incorporated into the state in 1923 when Iraq held its first elections to the Constituent Assembly.\n\nThe Iraqi Prime Minister, before the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne, was authorized to meet with Kurdish tribal leaders in Sulaymaniyah in 1923. By this time, he found that they were very much in support of the plan to recognize their national aspirations but within the framework of one country. They even displayed support to King Faysal in a meeting with him in May 1923. These Kurdish leaders, as well as other Kurdish business men and dignitaries were opposed to Shaykh Mahmud's style of nationalism because of his history of political manipulation and lawlessness. According to Muhsin al-Musawi, many tribal Shaykhs and many in the Kurdish elite were strongly inclined by this time to a unified Iraq. Nevertheless, Kurds in Iraq established the short-lived Kingdom of Kurdistan in the city of Sulaymaniyah. The Kingdom lasted from September 1922 until July 1924.\n\n"}
{"id": "47870680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47870680", "title": "Emishi", "text": "Emishi\n\nThe constituted an ethnic group of people who lived in northeastern Honshū in the Tōhoku region which was referred to as in contemporary sources. The first mention of them in literature dates to AD 400, in which they are mentioned as \"the hairy people\" from the Chinese records. Some Emishi tribes resisted the rule of the Japanese Emperors during the late Nara and early Heian periods (7th–10th centuries AD). The origin of the Emishi is unknown, but they are often thought to have descended from the Jōmon people and been related to the Ainu people.\n\nThe Emishi were represented by different tribes, some of whom became allies of the Japanese (\"fushu, ifu\") and others of whom remained hostile (\"iteki\"). The Emishi in northeastern Honshū relied on their horses in warfare. They developed a unique style of warfare in which horse archery and hit-and-run tactics proved very effective against the slower contemporary Japanese imperial army that mostly relied on heavy infantry. Their livelihood was based on hunting and gathering as well as on the cultivation of grains such as millet and barley. Recently, it has been thought that they practiced rice cultivation in areas where rice could be easily grown. The first major attempts to subjugate the Emishi in the 8th century were largely unsuccessful. The imperial armies, which were modeled after the mainland Chinese armies, were no match for the guerrilla tactics of the Emishi.\n\nIt was the development of horse archery and the adoption of Emishi tactics by the early Japanese warriors that led to the Emishi defeat. The success of the gradual change in battle tactics came at the very end of the 8th century in the 790s under the command of the general Sakanoue no Tamuramaro. They either submitted themselves to imperial authority as \"fushu\" and \"ifu\" or migrated further north, some to Hokkaidō. By the mid-9th century, most of their land in Honshū was conquered, and they ceased to be independent. However, they continued to be influential in local politics as subjugated, though powerful, Emishi families created semi-autonomous feudal domains in the north. In the two centuries following the conquest, a few of these domains became regional states that came into conflict with the central government.\n\nThe record of Emperor Jimmu in the \"Nihon Shoki\" mentions the \"Emishi\" (愛瀰詩) with ateji—whom his armed forces defeated before he was enthroned as the Emperor of Japan. According to \"Nihon Shoki\", Takenouchi no Sukune in the era of Emperor Keikō proposed that they should subjugate Emishi (蝦夷) of Hitakami no Kuni (日高見国) in eastern Japan. The first mention of Emishi from a source outside Japan was in the Chinese \"Book of Song\" in 478 which referred to them as \"hairy people\" (毛人). The book refers to \"the 55 kingdoms (国) of the hairy people (毛人) of the East\" as a report by King Bu—one of the Five kings of Wa.\n\nMost likely by the 7th century AD, the Japanese used this kanji to describe these people, but changed the reading from \"kebito\" or \"mōjin\" to \"Emishi\". Furthermore, during the same century, the kanji character was changed to 蝦夷, which is composed of the kanji for \"shrimp\" and for \"barbarian\". This is thought to refer to the long whiskers of a shrimp; however, this is not certain. The barbarian aspect clearly described an outsider, living beyond the border of the emerging empire of Japan, which saw itself as a civilizing influence; thus, the empire was able to justify its conquest. This kanji was first seen in the T'ang sources that describe the meeting with the two Emishi that the Japanese envoy brought with him to China (see below). The kanji character may have been adopted from China, but the reading \"Ebisu\" and \"Emishi\" were Japanese in origin and most likely came from either the Japanese \"yumishi\" which means bowman (their main weapon) or \"emushi\" which is sword in the Ainu tongue.\n\nOther origins—such as the word \"enchiu\" for \"man\" in the Ainu tongue—have been proposed. However, the way it sounds is almost phonetically identical to \"emushi\" so it may most likely have had an Ainoid origin. \"Ainoid\" distinguishes the people who are related to, or who are ancestors of, the Ainu, who first emerge as \"Ezo\" in Hokkaido in the Kamakura period and then become known as Ainu in the modern period.\n\nThe \"Nihon Shoki\"s entry for Emperor Yūryaku, also known as Ohatsuse no Wakatakeru, records an uprising, after the Emperor's death, of Emishi troops who had been levied to support an expedition to Korea. Emperor Yūryaku is suspected to be King Bu, but the date and the existence of Yūryaku are uncertain, and the Korean reference may be anachronistic. However, the compilers clearly felt that the reference to Emishi troops was credible in this context.\n\nIn 658, Abe no Hirafu's naval expedition of 180 ships reaches \"Aguta\" (present day Akita) and Watarishima (Hokkaidō). An alliance with \"Aguta\" Emishi, Tsugaru Emishi and Watarishima Emishi was formed by Abe who then stormed and defeated a settlement of Mishihase (Su-shen in the Aston translation of the \"Nihongi\") a people of unknown origin. This is one of the earliest reliable records of the Emishi people extant. The Mishihase may have been another ethnic group who competed with the ancestors of the Ainu for Hokkaidō. The expedition happens to be the furthest northern penetration of the Japanese Imperial army until the 16th century, and that later settlement was from a local Japanese warlord who was independent of any central control.\n\nIn 709, the fort of Ideha was created close to present day Akita. This was a bold move since the intervening territory between Akita and the northwestern countries of Japan was not under government control. The Emishi of Akita in alliance with Michinoku attacked Japanese settlements in response. Saeki no Iwayu was appointed \"Sei Echigo Emishi shōgun\". He used 100 ships from the Japan sea side countries along with soldiers recruited from the eastern countries and defeated the Echigo (present day Akita) Emishi.\n\nIn 724, Taga Fort was built by Ōno no Omi Azumahito near present-day Sendai and became the largest administrative fort in the northeast region of Michinoku. As \"Chinju shōgun\" he steadily built forts across the Sendai plain and into the interior mountains in what is now Yamagata Prefecture. Guerilla warfare was practiced by the horse riding Emishi who kept up pressure on these forts, but Emishi allies \"ifu\" and \"fushu\" were also recruited and promoted by the Japanese to fight against their kinsmen.\n\nIn 758, after a long period of stalemate, the Japanese army under Fujiwara no Asakari penetrated into what is now northern Miyagi Prefecture, and established Momonofu Castle on the Kitakami River. The fort was built despite constant attacks by the Emishi of Isawa (present-day southern Iwate prefecture).\n\n773 AD marked the beginning of the Thirty-Eight Years' War () with the defection of Korehari no Azamaro, a high-ranking Emishi officer of the Japanese army based in Taga Castle. The Emishi counterattacked along a broad front starting with Momonohu Castle, destroying the garrison there before going on to destroy a number of forts along a defensive line from east to west established painstakingly over the past generation. Even Taga Castle was not spared. Large Japanese forces were recruited, numbering in the thousands, the largest forces perhaps ten to twenty thousand strong fighting against an Emishi force that numbered at most around three thousand warriors, and at any one place around a thousand. In 776 a huge army of over 20,000 men was sent to attack the Shiwa Emishi, but failed to destroy the enemy who then successfully counterattacked their cumbersome foes in the Ōu Mountains. In 780 the Emishi attacked the Sendai plain, torching Japanese villages there. The Japanese were in a near panic as they tried to tax and recruit more soldiers from the Bandō.\n\nIn the 789 AD Battle of Koromo River (also known as Battle of Sufuse) the Japanese army under Ki no Kosami \"Seito shōgun\" was defeated by the Isawa Emishi under their general Aterui. A four thousand-strong army was attacked as they tried to cross the Kitakami River by a force of a thousand Emishi. The imperial army suffered its most stunning defeat, losing a thousand men, many of whom drowned.\n\nIn 794, many key Shiwa Emishi including Isawa no kimi Anushiko of what is now northern Miyagi Prefecture became allies of the Japanese. This was a stunning reversal to the aspirations of those Emishi who still fought against the Japanese. The Shiwa Emishi were a very powerful group and were able to attack smaller Emishi groups successfully as their leaders were promoted into imperial rank. This had the effect of isolating one of the most powerful and independent Emishi, the Isawa confederation. The newly appointed \"shōgun\" general, Sakanoue no Tamuramaro, then attacked the Isawa Emishi, relentlessly using soldiers trained in horse archery. The result was a desultory campaign that eventually led to Aterui's surrender in 802. The war was mostly over and many Emishi groups submitted themselves to the imperial government. However, skirmishes still took place and it was not until 811 that the so-called Thirty-Eight Years' War was over. North of the Kitakami River, the Emishi were still independent, but the large scale threat that they posed ceased with the defeat of the Isawa Emishi in 802.\n\nAfter their conquest, some Emishi leaders became part of the regional framework of government in the Tōhoku culminating with the Northern Fujiwara regime. This regime and others such as the Abe and Kiyohara were created by local Japanese \"gōzoku\" and became regional semi-independent states based on the Emishi and Japanese people. However, even before these emerged, the Emishi people progressively lost their distinct culture and ethnicity as they became minorities.\n\nThe Northern Fujiwara were thought to have been Emishi, but there is some doubt as to the lineage of them, and if they were descended from local Japanese families who resided in the Tōhoku (unrelated to the Fujiwara of Kyoto) then the study would confirm this. Both the Abe and Kiyohara families were almost certainly of Japanese descent, both of whom represented \"gōzoku\", powerful families who had moved into the provinces of Mutsu and Dewa perhaps during the ninth century though when they emigrated is not known for certain. They were likely a Japanese frontier family who developed regional ties with the descendants of the Emishi \"fushu\", and may have been seen as \"fushu\" themselves since they had lived in the region for several generations.\n\nSoon after World War II, mummies of the Northern Fujiwara family in Hiraizumi (the capital city of the Northern Fujiwara), hence thought to have been related to the Ainu, were studied by scientists. However, the researchers concluded that the rulers of Hiraizumi were like other Japanese of the time, and certainly not related to the ethnic Ainu. This was seen as evidence that the Emishi were not related to the Ainu. This had the effect of popularizing the idea that the Emishi were like other contemporary ethnic Japanese who lived in northeast Japan, outside of Yamato rule.\n\nMinamoto no Yoritomo, a descendant of Emperor Seiwa, finally defeated the Northern Fujiwara in 1189 and established the Kamakura shogunate in 1192.\n\nThis theory suggests that Emishi is Ainu. With the cold weather of the Kofun period, the bearer of the Jōmon that flourished mainly in Hokkaido contacted and interacted with the bearer of Kofun culture who came northward from southwest Japan, reaching the vicinity of the south of the northern Tōhoku region. After that, Emishi in Hokkaido is finally inherited to the Ainu.\n\nThere is a theory that the Emishi spoke the \"\" (the ancestor of Tōhoku dialect) and are a different ethnic group from the Ainu. Especially from the similarity of Tōhoku dialect and Izumo dialect, it is suggested that some of who did not obey after the escaped to Tōhoku region and became Emishi.\n\nRecent scholarship has created a much more complicated portrait of this people. By and large, they are seen as indigenous to Japan and not simply as ancestors to the Ainu, but descendants of the Jōmon. Even though historically they emerge as serious challengers to the nascent Japanese state, they had inherited a rich and separate tradition that went back several millennia before the Japanese speakers came to the islands of Japan.\n\nIn the study of Jōmon skeletal remains dating from thousands of years ago, a direct connection with the modern Ainu was confirmed, showing a definite linkage between the two groups. This linkage however, shows that the Jōmon people were very different from modern Japanese and other modern East Asians. The physical appearance of a number of the Ainu who were first encountered by the Europeans in the 19th century were similar to Caucasians, and thus caused quite a stir among contemporary academics, and has spurred debate about their origins. It is thus surmised that the Jōmon also were physically unlike other East Asians. This said, physical anthropologists have found that diachronically, and geographically, the skeletal structure of the Jōmon population changed over time from southwest to northeast, paralleling the actual migration of Japanese speakers historically, so that more Jōmon traits are preserved in the north.\n\nStudies have also shown that skeletal remains from larger settlements in the Tōhoku corresponding to places where burial mounds (kofun) were built have traits that are halfway between Ainu and present day Japanese, so the idea that the Emishi were made up solely of Ainoid ancestors is untrue. The Emishi were a mix of both Ainoid and types of people scholars have called \"\"Kofun\" people\" who were not a separate race or ethnic group, but were a mixture of both native Jōmon and the more recent groups identified with the Yayoi culture. This dovetails nicely with the \"transformation\" theory that native Jōmon peoples changed gradually with the infusion of Yayoi immigrants into the Tōhoku rather than the \"replacement\" theory which posits that one population (Jōmon) was replaced by another (Yayoi).\n\nThe Emishi were composed of two main populations, the Jōmon Ainoid who were the majority and a smaller group the \"Kofun\" united by a common Ainoid language distinct from Japanese. These two populations were not distinguished by contemporaries, but rather by present-day physical anthropologists. Historically, they were seen as one group by contemporaries, mainly those who were descendants of the natives (the Jōmon) called \"Emishi\" and \"Ebisu\" who also had in their population those of mixed ethnicity, most likely descendants of early Japanese colonists. In addition, the contemporary Japanese for their part looked upon the Emishi as foreigners and barbarians whose lands they desired to conquer and incorporate into the Japanese state.\n\nThough it is not known how much the Emishi population changed as Japanese settlers and frontiersmen began to live in their territories even before the conquest, the existence of Emishi \"Kofun\" types attests to some form of ethnic mixing. The Japanese established trading relations with the Emishi by which their horses were imported and iron tools and weapons exported to their territories. To complicate matters, some ethnic Japanese allied themselves with the Emishi in their wars against the Yamato court. The latter were known in the \"Nihon Shoki\" as \"Japanese captives\" of the Emishi.\n\nThe people who migrated to the northern tip of Honshū and Hokkaidō region retained their identity and their separate ethnicity, and their descendants eventually formed the Satsumon culture in Hokkaidō. Historically, they became a distinctly different population from those who were conquered and integrated into the Japanese state. The Emishi (not including them) became more like other ethnic Japanese while the Hokkaidō Emishi, known by contemporaries as \"Watarishima\" Emishi, or \"Emishi who crossed to the island\", eventually became known as the Ezo, and later in the modern period the Ainu.\n\nThe evidence that the Emishi were also related to the Ainu comes from historical documents. One of the best sources of information comes from both inside and outside Japan, from contemporary Tang- and Song-dynasty histories as these describe dealings with Japan, and from the \"Shoku Nihongi\". For example, there is a record of the arrival of the Japanese foreign minister in AD 659 in which conversation is recorded with the Tang Emperor. In this conversation we have perhaps the most accurate picture of the Emishi recorded for that time period. This episode is repeated in the \"Shoku Nihongi\" in the following manner:\n\nTwo Emishi, a man and woman, from contemporary Tōhoku accompanied the minister Sakaibe no Muraji to Tang China. The emperor was delighted with the two Emishi because of their \"strange\" physical appearance. This emperor was most likely the Emperor Tang Taizong who was familiar with many ethnic groups throughout his Empire, from Uyghurs and Turks to Middle Eastern traders. The Japanese envoy for his part describes the contemporary relationship with the various Emishi: those who had allied themselves with the Yamato court (known as \"niki-emishi\", i.e. \"gentle Emishi\"), those who remained as enemies staunchly opposed to Yamato (known as \"ara-emishi\", i.e. \"rough Emishi\" or \"wild Emishi\"), and the distant Tsugaru Emishi (located in present-day northern Aomori and in southern Hokkaidō). All Chinese documents from the Tang and Song refer to them as having a separate state north of Japan and call them (Mandarin \"máo rén\", Sino-Japanese \"mōjin\", \"hairy people\"). This is also corroborated in the \"Shoku Nihongi\", in which they are described consistently as having long beards and as \"kebito\", or \"hairy people\", characteristics that have been used to describe the Ainu in the modern period. These same kanji characters were read as \"emishi\" before the Nara period.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56637710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56637710", "title": "Engels' pause", "text": "Engels' pause\n\nEngels’ Pause refers to the early period of the industrial revolution, when, due to great technological upheaval, the livelihood of a large number of people worsened before society began to prosper in the longer term. The term was coined by an economic historian, Robert C. Allen, who links the idea to a view of the Britain of 1760–1913. During the first half of the nineteenth century in Britain, wage growth stagnated while output per worker nonetheless grew. After the middle of the nineteenth century, real wages began growing in line with productivity.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution in the 19th century was an all-encompassing societal transformation, which concerned everything from technology and culture to social structures and the economy. The changes caused by industrialisation meant that the principles of society had to be redesigned. It has been argued that a similar transformation is currently underway in industrialised Western nations, where digitisation and robotisation are transforming society. In the Western world, particularly the United States and the United Kingdom, the 2010s can be seen as the beginning of a similar ”pause”, in which the position of workers and the capacity of current systems to maintain the development of society are at least temporarily weakened.\n\nFor example, the think tank Demos Helsinki has written that in addition to the economy, the whole of society is changing its shape at this point in time, just like in the Industrial Revolution. During industrialisation, productivity began to increase as the pillars of society and business were designed in accordance with the new modes of operation. This eventually led to an unprecedented period of prosperity. At the same time, two new social classes were born: the working class, with a major part of 20th century politics revolving around improving their living conditions, and the middle class, whose expansion was one of the most important results of the increase in prosperity triggered by industrialisation and political reforms. Likewise, the birth of the political party landscape and urban planning in their current forms can be placed at the beginning of industrialisation. It is possible that digitisation and robotisation have initiated a decades-long period of transformation comparable to the industrial revolution, during which the basic structures of society will shake, forms of livelihood will change and wealth will be radically redistributed.\n\nAt the time of the first Engels’ Pause, there were big changes in, for example, the social security system, the party system, elementary schools, urban planning, public transport and many other areas of society, in order to enable society to respond to the transformation caused by industrialisation. \n\nAllen, the inventor of the term “Engels’ Pause”, has also reflected on the similarities between 19th century industrialisation and the present day. He does not, however, directly use the term “Engels’ Pause” in his deliberations.\n\nErik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee have also referred to a similar phenomenon with their concept of ”the Second Machine Age”. The term refers to how people’s incomes do not increase although technology is developing and enables more efficient production.\n"}
{"id": "1571749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571749", "title": "Ethnic studies", "text": "Ethnic studies\n\nEthnic studies, in the United States, is the interdisciplinary study of difference—chiefly race, ethnicity, and nation, but also sexuality, gender, and other such markings—and power, as expressed by the state, by civil society, and by individuals. Ethnic studies is an academic field that spans the humanities and the social sciences, it emerged as an academic field in the second half of the 20th century partly in response to charges that traditional social science and humanities disciplines such as anthropology, history, literature, sociology, political science, cultural studies, and area studies which were conceived from an inherently Eurocentric perspective. Its origin, then, lies in the civil rights era, when ethnic studies was originally conceived to re-frame the way that specific disciplines had told the stories, histories, struggles and triumphs of people of color on what was seen to be their own terms. In recent years, it has broadened its focus to include questions of representation, racialization, racial formation theory, and more determinedly interdisciplinary topics and approaches.\n\nIn the United States, the field of ethnic studies evolved out of the Civil Rights Movement during the 1960s and early 1970s, which contributed to growing self-awareness and radicalization of people of color such as African-Americans, Asian Americans, Latino Americans, and American Indians. Ethnic studies departments were established on college campuses across the country and have grown to encompass African American Studies, Asian American Studies, Raza Studies, Chicano Studies, Mexican American Studies, and Native American Studies, as well as Jewish-American Studies and Italian-American Studies.\nThe first strike demanding the establishment of an Ethnic Studies department occurred in 1968, led by the Third World Liberation Front (TWLF), a joint effort of the Black Student Union, Latin American Students Organization, Asian American Political Alliance, Pilipino American Collegiate Endeavor, and Native American Students Union at San Francisco State University. This was the longest student strike in the nation's history, and resulted in the establishment of a School of Ethnic Studies. President S. I. Hayakawa ended the strike after taking a hardline approach,when he appointed Dr. James Hirabayashi the first dean of the School (now College) of Ethnic Studies at San Francisco State University, and increased recruiting and admissions of students of color in response to the strike's demands. In 1972, The National Association for Ethnic Studies was founded to foster interdisciplinary discussions for scholars and activists concerned with the national and international dimensions of ethnicity encouraging conversations related to anthropology, Africana Studies, Native Studies, Sociology and American Studies among other fields.\n\nMinority students at The University of California at Berkeley- united under their own Third World Liberation Front, the TWLF, initiated the second longest student strike in the history of this country on January 22, 1969. The groups involved were the Mexican American Student Confederation, Asian American Political Alliance, African American Student Union, and the Native American group. The four co-Chairmen of the TWLF were Ysidro Macias, Richard Aoki, Charlie Brown, and LaNada Means.\n\nThis strike at Berkeley was even more violent than the San Francisco State strike, in that more than five police departments, the California Highway Patrol, Alameda County Deputies, and finally, the California National Guard were ordered onto the Berkeley campus by Ronald Reagan in the effort to quash the strike. The excessive use of police force has been cited with promoting the strike by the alienation of non-striking students and faculty, who protested the continual presence of police on the Berkeley campus. The faculty union voted to join the strike on March 2, and two days later the Academic Senate called on the administration to grant an interim Department of Ethnic Studies. On March 7, 1969, President Hitch authorized the establishment of the first Ethnic Studies Department in the country, followed by the establishment of the nation's first College of Ethnic Studies at San Francisco State University on March 20, 1969. \n\nCourses in ethnic studies address perceptions that, because of the Eurocentric bias and racial and ethnic prejudice of those in power, American historians have systematically ignored or undervalued the roles of such ethnic minorities as Asian Americans, Blacks, Mexicans, Latinos and Native Americans. Ethnic studies also often encompasses issues of intersectionality, where gender, class, and sexuality also come into play. There are now hundreds of African American, Asian American, Mexican American and Chicano/Latino Studies departments in the US, approximately fifty Native American Studies departments, and a small number of comparative ethnic studies programs. College students, especially on the East Coast, continue to advocate for Ethnic Studies departments. The Ethnic Studies Coalition at Wellesley College, the Taskforce for Asian and Pacific American Studies at Harvard University, and CRAASH at Hunter College are among student organizations calling for increased institutional support for Ethnic Studies. Ethnic studies as an institutional discipline varies by location. For instance, whereas the Ethnic Studies Department at UC Berkeley comprises separate \"core group\" departments, the department at UC San Diego does not do so.\n\nWhile early ethnic studies scholarship focused on the repressed histories and identities of various groups in the U.S., the field of study has expanded to encompass transnationalism, comparative race Studies, and postmodernist/poststructuralist critiques. While pioneering thinkers relied on frameworks, theories and methodologies such as those found in the allied fields of sociology, history, literature and film, scholars in the field today utilize multidisciplinary as well as comparative perspectives, increasingly within an international or transnational context. Central to much Ethnic Studies scholarship is understanding how race, class, gender, sexuality, ability, and other categories of difference intersect to shape the lived experiences of people of color, what the legal scholar Kimberle Crenshaw calls intersectionality. \n\nMost recently, \"whiteness\" studies has been included as a popular site of inquiry in what is a traditionally academic field for studying the racial formation of communities of color. Instead of including whites as another additive component to ethnic studies, whiteness studies has instead focused on how the political and juridical category of white has been constructed and protected in relation to racial \"others\" and how it continues to shape the relationship between bodies of color and the State. As Ian Haney-Lopez articulates in \"White By Law: The Legal Construction of Race\", the law has functioned as the vehicle through which certain racialized groups have been included or excluded from the category of whiteness across time, and thus marked as inside or outside the national imaginary (read as white) and the privileges that result from this belonging. Important to whiteness studies, according to scholars such as Richard Dyer, is understanding how white bodies are both invisible and hypervisible, and how representations of whiteness in visual culture reflect and, in turn, shape a persistent commitment to white supremacy in the U.S. even as some claim the nation is currently a colorblind meritocracy. In addition to visual culture, space also reproduces and normalizes whiteness. The sociologist George Lipsitz argues that whiteness is a condition rather than a skin color, a structured advantage of accumulated privilege that resurfaces across time spatially and obscures the racism that continues to mark certain bodies as out of place and responsible for their own disadvantage. Such attention to geography is an example of the way ethnic studies scholars have taken up the study of race and ethnicity across almost all disciplines using various methodologies in the humanities and social sciences.\n\nIn general, an \"Ethnic Studies approach\" is loosely defined as any approach that emphasizes the cross-relational and intersectional study of different groups. George Lipsitz again is important here, in demonstrating how the project of anti-black racism defines the relationship between the white spatial imaginary and other communities of color. Thus the redlining of the 1930s that prevented upwardly mobile African Americans from moving into all-white neighborhoods also forced Latino and Asian bodies into certain spaces.\n\nEthnic studies exists in dialogue—and occasional tension—with a variety of related fields and disciplines.\n\nIn the case of traditional disciplines, ethnic studies often confronts resistance if not outright hostility to its mission. With many departments clinging to the ideal of objective and detached scholarship, the field is generally seen as a more politicized (and therefore, for some, a more troubling) form of academic inquiry. This hostility reflects, in some cases, a disinterest in the diversification of subject areas and the preservation of historically prominent fields. In the case of interdisciplinary fields, as ethnic studies has moved from a study of specific racial and ethnic groups towards the scrutiny of power dynamics, it has grown closer to fields like African American studies, Asian American studies, Native American studies, Latin@ studies, and American studies. Even more recently, ethnic studies has grown philosophically and politically closer to LGTBQ studies.\n\n\"Ethnic Studies\" is often housed within departments or units with many different names. Teaching units often have a range of different names—Critical Ethnic Studies, Comparative American Cultures, Ethnic Studies, or American Studies and Ethnicity—for curricula and faculty who are gathered together under the same set of academic interests. A wide variety of curricula are employed in the service of each of these rubrics. Occasionally, the gap between American Studies and Ethnic Studies can be productively bridged, especially in departments where the bulk of faculty focus on race and ethnicity, difference and power. But that bridgework can be troublesome, obscuring one foci and sharpening the emphasis on another.\n\nAs a consequence of this great variation, though, ethnic studies needs to be understood within its specific institutional context. And, despite considerable financial (and often political) pressure to consolidate or eliminate ethnic studies within American Studies—or to house Native American studies, Latin@ studies, and Asian American studies within either ethnic studies or American Studies—the relationships between these fields should be considered within each institution's governing eco-system.\n\nThe National Association for Ethnic Studies was founded in 1972 by several scholars who wanted to study race through an interdisciplinary approach. It was initially named the National Association of Interdisciplinary Studies for Native-American, Black, Chicano, Puerto Rican, and Asian Americans. The organization was officially renamed in 1985. It is the oldest ethnic studies association in the United States.\n\nFrom its founding, the organization has strived to promote scholarship, research, and curriculum design for its members. The organization hosts an annual conference.\n\nNAES also publishes the Ethnic Studies Review, a peer-reviewed journal for scholarship in ethnic studies.\n\nThe Critical Ethnic Studies Association began with its first conference in March 2011 at the University of California Riverside, Critical Ethnic Studies and the Future of Genocide: Settler colonialism/Heteropatriarchy/White Supremacy. This prompted the people who had organized and partaken in the conference to form the association. The second conference then took place in September 2013 at the University of Illinois Chicago and it was themed, Decolonizing Future Intellectual Legacies and Activist Practices. The third conference took place from April 30-May 2015 at York University in Toronto and it is titled, Sovereignties and Colonialisms: Resisting Racism, Extraction and Dispossession.\n\nIn some instances, ethnic studies has become entrapped within and similar to the mandates of liberal multiculturalism, which relies on politics beholden to US nation-building and capitalist imperatives. Ethnic studies is in a difficult position, because as it gets more legitimizes within the academy, it has frequently done so by distancing itself from the very social movements that were the triggers for its creation. On the other hand, ethnic studies departments have always existed on the margins of the academic industrial complex, and become further marginalized through funding cuts due to the 2008 global economic crisis. Instead of just dismissing or wholly embracing identitarian nationalism, CESA seeks to construct an open dialogue around issues like white supremacy, settler colonialism, capitalism, and heteropatriarchy, militarism, occupation, indigenous erasure, neocolonialism, anti-immigration anti-Islam, etc. in order to expand the parameters and capacities of ethnic studies.\n\nCESA's goal is not to romanticize all movements or dictate a specific relationship between scholars and activists. Instead, it questions the emphasis of professionalization within ethnic studies, the politics of the academic industrial complex, or the engagement of larger movements for social transformation. It recognizes that at times Ethnic Studies has been complicit in neutralizing the university, rather than questioning the university's ideologies actions, knowledge, and power. It works to situate the university as a point of contention, as a location among many for political struggles. CESA invites participation from all types of people: scholars, students, activists, arts, media makers, and educators of all fields, generations, and disciplines. The Critical Ethnic Studies Association was founded as a transnational, interdisciplinary, and un-disciplinary association of scholars, activists, students, artists, media makers, educators, and others who are directly concerned with interrogating the limitations of ethnic studies in order to better engage the historical stakes of the field. It organizes projects and programs to reimagine ethnic studies and its future through new interventions, both scholarly and activist based. They aim to develop an approach to scholarship, institution building, and activism animated by the spirit of the decolonial, antiracist, and other global liberationist movements that enabled the creation of Ethnic Studies in the first place. It hopes that this approach will continue to inform its political and intellectual projects.\n\nThere is a huge emphasis on counteracting institutional marginalization, revisiting the ideas that prompted the creation of ethnic studies, and to create new conversations that challenge US hegemony in traditional ethnic studies. Their goals include establishing an interdisciplinary network of scholars and activists stimulating debate on critical ethnic studies, providing forums such as the biannual conference or dialogues thought seminars, social media, etc. There is also a focus on publishing a journal, \"Critical Ethnic Studies\", for new scholarships, and to facilitate dialogues that is critical and constructive between activist and academics.\n\nUnless noted otherwise, each school's respective program is titled as \"Ethnic Studies\". \n\nCentral Washington University Ethnic Studies minor\nArizona\n\nCalifornia\n\nColorado\n\nConnecticut\n\nDistrict of Columbia\n\nHawai'i\n\nIdaho\n\nIowa\n\nIllinois\n\nKansas\n\nMassachusetts\n\nMichigan\nMinnesota\n\nNebraska\n\nNew Hampshire\n\nNew York\n\nOhio\n\nOregon\n\nPennsylvania\n\nRhode Island\n\nTexas\n\nThailand\n\nUtah\n\nVermont\n\nWashington\n\nWisconsin\n\n\nWhile ethnic studies courses have had a presence throughout high schools in Southwest states, there have been attacks on the discipline in the past couple of years, with the state of California never fully enforcing such courses in its high schools. However, students and educators of school districts across Southern California are pushing towards implementing ethnic studies courses into school requirements. The El Rancho Unified School District (ERUSD), which serves the area of Pico Rivera, became the first school district in California to require an ethnic studies class as part of its students' graduation requirement in 2014. The ethnic studies resolution in ERUSD was both drafted and proposed by ERUSD's board President, Aurora Villon and Vice President, Jose Lara and was presented as an effort to \"expose ... students to global perspectives and inclusion of diversity\". This graduation requirement for ERUSD high school students is expected to be fully implemented by the 2015–2016 academic school year.\n\nIn a similar move, Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) will also begin to require ethnic studies courses in its high schools and will include such courses in its A-G graduation requirements. In November 2014, the LAUSD board approved a resolution proposed by board members Bennett Kayser, George McKenna and Steve Zimmer. The ethnic studies curriculum will begin as a pilot program in at least five high schools. It is expected that by the 2017–2018 academic school year, every high school will offer at least one course in ethnic studies and the class would be compulsory by the time the class of 2019 graduates. While LAUSD board members proposed the resolution, many students took on the efforts by creating petitions and rallies in support of the ethnic studies resolution.\n\nThe New York State government has implemented the Dignity for All Students Act (DASA) which requires administrative, supervisory, and student service personnel to be trained in \"Harassment, Bullying, Cyber bullying, and Discrimination in Schools: Prevention and Intervention\". In this case, ethnic studies is framed through the lens of \"bullying\" as an challenge for minority students to get the most out of their education in a safe classroom environment. For the creators of DASA, bullying has the potential to disrupt a student's bodily and emotional safety.\n\nDASA aims to do the following:\n\n\nSee the section below titled \"Arizona ban.\"\n\n\n\nEthnic studies has always been opposed by different elements. Proponents of ethnic studies feel that this is a reactionary movement from the right. They note the rise of the conservative movement during the 1990s in the United States, in which the discipline came increasingly under attack. For proponents, the backlash is an attempt to preserve \"traditional values\" of Western culture, symbolized by the United States. For some critics, this is a slant by proponents to disparage criticism by false association to right wing ideology. They have no objection about African, Latino or Native American culture being legitimate topics of academic research. What they object to is the current state of ethnic studies which they see as characterized by excessive left wing political ideology, postmodernist relativism which, in their view, greatly undermined the scholarly validity of the research. However, ethnic studies is accused of promoting \"racial separatism\", \"linguistic isolation\" and \"racial preference\".\n\nIn 2005, Ward Churchill, a professor of ethnic studies at University of Colorado at Boulder, came under severe fire for an essay he wrote called \"On the Justice of Roosting Chickens\", in which he claimed that the September 11 attacks were a natural and unavoidable consequence of what he views as unlawful US policy, and referred to the \"technocratic corps\" working in the World Trade Center as \"little Eichmanns\". Conservative commentators used the Churchill affair to attack ethnic studies departments as enclaves of \"anti-Americanism\" which promote the idea of ethnic groups as \"victims\" in US society, and not places where serious scholarship is done.\n\nIn the face of such attacks, ethnic studies scholars are now faced with having to defend the field. In the media, this takes form of characterising the attack as right wing reactionary movement. For example, Orin Starn, a cultural anthropologist and specialist in Native American Studies at Duke University, says: \"The United States is a very diverse country, and an advocate would say we teach kids to understand multiculturalism and diversity, and these are tools that can be used in law, government, business and teaching, which are fields graduates go into. It promotes thinking about diversity, globalization, how we do business and how we work with nonprofits.\"\n\nIn reaction to criticisms that ethnic studies academics undermine the study of a unified American history and culture or that ethnic studies are simply a \"colored\" version of American Studies, defenders point out that ethnic studies come out of the historically repressed and denied presence of groups within the U.S. knowledge-production, literature and epistemology. Efforts to merge ethnic studies with American studies have been met with fierce opposition as was the case at UC Berkeley. While the field is already decades old, the ongoing creation of new ethnic studies departments is fraught with controversy. Administrators at Columbia University attempted to placate student protests for the creation of an Ethnic Studies Department in 1996 by offering American Studies as a compromise.\n\nOn May 11, 2010, Arizona Governor Jan Brewer signed House Bill 2281 (also known as HB 2281 and A.R.S. §15–112), which prohibits a school district or charter school from including in its program of instruction any courses or classes that\nBut the law must still allow:\n\nComing off the heels of SB 1070, Superintendent of Public Instruction Tom Horne was adamant about cutting Mexican-American Studies in the Tucson Unified School District. He devised HB 2281 under the belief that the program was teaching \"destructive ethnic chauvinism and that Mexican American students are oppressed\". In January 2011, Horne reported TUSD to be out of compliance with the law. In June of that year, the Arizona Education Department paid $110,000 to perform an audit on the TUSD's program, which reported \"no observable evidence was present to suggest that any classroom within the Tucson Unified School District is in direct violation of the law.\" John Huppenthal (elected Superintendent as Horne became Attorney General) ordered the audit as part of his campaign promise to \"Stop La Raza\", but when the audit contradicted his own personal findings of noncompliance, he discredited it. Despite a formal appeal issued on June 22, 2011 by TUSD to Huppenthal, Judge Lewis Kowal backed the Superintendent's decision and ruled the district out of compliance in December, 2011. On January 10, 2012 the TUSD board voted to cut the program after Huppenthal threatened to withhold 10% of the district's annual funding. Numerous books related to the Mexican-American Studies program were found in violation of the law and have been stored in district storehouses, including Shakespeare's \"The Tempest\", Paolo Freire's \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\", and Bill Bigelow's \"\"Rethinking Columbus: The Next 500 Years\".\n\nSupporters of MAS see HB 2281 as another attack on the Hispanic population of Arizona. This is due partly to the fact that none of the other three ethnic studies programs were cut. Support for the ethnic studies programs subsequently came from scholars, community activist groups, etc. For example, The Curriculum Audit of the Mexican American Studies Department refuted all of the violations under House Bill 2281. The audit instead recommended that the courses be implemented further, given the positive impacts of the courses on the students. In addition to the defense of the ethnic studies department, the UN Charter of Human Rights challenges the bill as a violation of fundamental human, constitutional, and educational rights (Kunnie 2010). A 2011 documentary, Precious Knowledge directed by Ari Palos and produced by Eren McGinnis for Dos Vatos Productions, argues that while 48% of Hispanic students drop out, TUSD's program had become a model of national success, with 93% of enrolled students graduating and 85% going on to college. The film shows a 165-mile community run from Tucson to Phoenix in protest of the state's decision, as well as student-led marches and stand-ins. \nIn one instance, students overtook a board meeting by chaining themselves to the board members' chairs. A student protest group, UNIDOS (United Non-Discriminatory Individuals Demanding Our Studies), has remained active speaking out before legislators and school board members on behalf of the program. In a separate case, two students and 11 teachers sued the state, contending that the law is unconstitutional. The teachers, however, have been denied standing in the lawsuit as public employees.\n\nThe Mexican American Studies course was first brought under attack after the Deputy Superintendent of Public Education gave a speech to students, countering an allegation that \"Republicans hate Latinos.\" The students walked out of the speech, and Tom Horne, the Superintendent, blamed the rudeness of the students on the teachers from their Mexican American Studies courses. He called for removal of the courses. When his call was not answered, he made an effort for a bill to be put into law banning Mexican American Studies courses.\n\nHouse Bill 2281, which prohibited the Mexican American Studies courses, was approved in December 2010. In an effort to enforce the bill, the district court gave the Superintendent of the school district the right to withhold funding to schools that continue to teach the ethnic studies course. Judge Kowal ruled the course “biased, political, and emotionally charged,” and upheld both the bill and the withholding of funding from schools.\n\nAn appeal was filed in October 2010. The initial appeal was challenging House Bill 2281 for violation of First Amendment (for viewpoint discrimination) and Fourteenth Amendment (for void-for-vagueness) rights. This initial appeal was filed by 10 teachers, the director of the Mexican American Studies program, and 3 students and their parents. Once the students graduated, 2 dropped their appeals, and the teachers and program director were dismissed for want of standing in January 2012. This left one student and her father on the appeal.\n\nIn March 2013, the appeals court ruled only in favor of the plaintiffs on the grounds that there was a First Amendment overbreadth violation to House Bill 2281. The plaintiffs decided to further appeal the case.\n\nOn July 7, 2015, the appeal on the ban of the Mexican American Studies, \"Maya Arce vs Huppenthal\", reached a federal appeals court. Overseen by Judge Rakoff, the court reversed part of what the district court had ruled on banning the course. Judge Rakoff looked at the 4 categories (listed above) that constitute which classes are prohibited.\n\nRakoff's statement said that House Bill 2281 was created with the Mexican American Studies course in mind. Since the Mexican American studies course was the only course in Arizona to be banned, it became clear that the bill had targeted the one course. This led the court to find the bill to be partially unconstitutional as it did not require similar Mexican American Studies courses outside of the Tucson Unified School District to cease teaching the courses. The bill also did not ban African American Studies courses that were being taught.\n\nRakoff's final ruling affirmed part of the bill to be unconstitutional regarding the plaintiff's First Amendment right. However, Rakoff upheld the district court's ruling that the bill is not overbroad. Rakoff sent part of the appeal back to the district court to review the claim that the bill is discriminatory.\n\nIn August 2017, a different federal judge found that the bill was motivated by discriminatory intent, and struck down the ban on ethnic studies as unconstitutional. The judge felt that the ban had been passed \"not for a legitimate educational purpose, but for an invidious discriminatory racial purpose and a politically partisan purpose.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13357428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13357428", "title": "Half-Caste Act", "text": "Half-Caste Act\n\nHalf-Caste Act was the common name given to Acts of Parliament passed in Victoria and Western Australia in 1886. They became the model for legislation of Aboriginal communities throughout Australia, such as the Aboriginal Protection and restriction of the sale of opium act 1897 in Queensland.\n\nThe Victorian Half-Caste Act (in full, an \"Act to amend an Act entitled \"An Act to Provide for the Protection and Management of the Aboriginal Natives of Victoria\"\") was an extension and expansion of the Aboriginal Protection Act which gave extensive powers over the lives of Aboriginal people to the Board for the Protection of Aborigines, including regulation of residence, employment and marriage.\n\nIn particular, the 1886 act started to remove Aboriginal people of mixed descent, known as 'half-castes', from the Aboriginal stations or reserves to force them to assimilate into European society. These expulsions separated families and communities, causing distress and leading to protest. Nevertheless, the Board refused to assist the expelled people. It was assumed that the expulsions would lead to the decline in the population of the reserves and their eventual closure.\n\nThe failure of this policy and its inhumanity led to Victoria's \"Aborigines Act\" of 1910 and \"Aboriginal Lands Act\" of 1970, which abandoned this policy.\n\nBefore 1886 dealings with \"natives\" in Western Australia had been the responsibility of the UK Colonial Office. In 1886 an Aboriginal Protection Board was established with five members and a secretary, all of whom were nominated by the Governor.\n\nFollowing the furore over the Fairburn Report (which revealed slavery conditions among Aboriginal farm workers) and the work of the Rev. John Gribble, Parliament introduced the Aborigines Protection Act 1886 (WA), or \"Half-caste act\". This introduced employment contracts between employers and Aboriginal workers over the age of 14. There was no provision in the 1886 WA Act for contracts to include wages. But, employees were to be provided with \"substantial, good and sufficient rations\", clothing and blankets. The 1886 WA Act provided a resident magistrate with the power to indenture 'half-caste' and Aboriginal children, from a suitable age, until they turned 21. An Aboriginal Protection Board, was also established to prevent the abuses reported earlier, but rather than protect Aborigines, it mainly succeeded in putting them under tighter government control. It was intended to enforce contracts, employment of prisoners and apprenticeships, but there was not sufficient power to enforce clauses in the north, and they were openly flouted. The Act defined as \"Aboriginal\" \"every Aboriginal native of Australia, every Aboriginal half-caste, or child of a half-caste\". Governor Broome insisted that the act contain within it a clause permitting traditional owners to continue hunting on their tribal lands.\n\nThe effect of the Act was to give increasing power to the Board over Aboriginal people, rather than setting up a system to punish whites for wrongdoing in relation to Aboriginal people. An Aboriginal Department was set up, under the office of the Chief Protector of Aborigines. Nearly half of the Legislative Council voted to amend the act for contract labour as low as age 10 but it was defeated. McKenzie Grant, the member for The North, claimed that child labour of age six or seven was a necessary commonplace, as \"in this way they gradually become domesticated\". The Attorney General Septimus Burt, in debate on the 2nd reading speech, claimed that contracts were being issued, not for current work, but to hold Aboriginal people as slaves on stations for potential future work, and so prevent them from being free to leave.\n\nProtectors of Aborigines were appointed by the Board under the conditions laid down in the various acts. In theory, Protectors of Aborigines were empowered to undertake legal proceedings on behalf of Aboriginal people, dictate where Aboriginal people could live or work, and keep all wages earned by employed Aboriginals.\n\nAs the boards had limited funds Protectors received very limited remuneration, and so a range of people were appointed as local Protectors, including Resident Magistrates, Jail Wardens, Justices of the Peace and in some cases ministers of religion, though most were local Police Inspectors. The minutes of the board show they mostly dealt with matters of requests from religious bodies for financial relief and reports from Resident or Police Magistrates pertaining to trials and convictions of Aboriginal people under their jurisdiction.\n\nAboriginal protection boards also issued permits to allow Aboriginals the right to leave their respective missions and enter the mainstream society for a set period of time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190846", "title": "Henry Dodwell", "text": "Henry Dodwell\n\nHenry Dodwell (October 16417 June 1711) was an Anglo-Irish scholar, theologian and controversial writer.\n\nDodwell was born in Dublin in 1641. His father, William Dodwell, who lost his property in Connacht during the Irish rebellion, was married to Elizabeth Slingsby, daughter of Sir Francis Slingsby and settled at York in 1648. Henry received his preliminary education at St Peter's School, York.\n\nIn 1654 he was sent by his uncle to Trinity College, Dublin, where he became a scholar and fellow, receiving the Bachelor of Arts in 1662 and Master of Arts in 1663. Having conscientious objections to taking religious orders, he relinquished his fellowship in 1666, but in 1688 was elected Camden professor of history at Oxford. In 1691 he was deprived of his professorship for refusing to take the oath of allegiance to William and Mary.\n\nDodwell retired to Shottesbrooke in Berkshire to be near his friend, Francis Cherry. As the movement behind the refusal to swear allegiance declined, with the death of William Lloyd who had been deprived of his bishopric, and the decision by Thomas Ken to relinquish his claim to the See of Bath and Wells, Dodwell returned to the Church of England in 1710.\n\nHe died in Shottesbrooke.\n\nLiving on the produce of a small estate in Ireland, he devoted himself to the study of chronology and ecclesiastical polity, providing a defence of the deprived nonjuring bishops. Edward Gibbon speaks of his learning as \"immense,\" and says that his \"skill in employing facts is equal to his learning,\" although he severely criticizes his method and style. Dodwell's works on ecclesiastical polity are more numerous than those on chronology.\n\nIn his ecclesiastical writings he was regarded as one of the greatest champions of the non-jurors; but the doctrine which he afterwards promulgated, that the soul is naturally mortal, and that immortality could be enjoyed only by those who had received baptism from the hands of one set of regularly ordained clergy, and was therefore a privilege from which dissenters were hopelessly excluded, did not strengthen his reputation.\n\nBishop Burnet thus addresses him in one of his letters : \"You are a learned man ; and your life has been not only without blemish, but exemplary ; but you do not seem to remember, or enough to consider, the woe our Saviour has denounced against those by whom scandals come ; and, according to the true notion of scandal, I know no man, that has laid more in the way of the little ones, or weaker Christians, than you have done. I do assure you, I would rather wish that I could neither read nor write, than to have read or writ to such purposes as you have been pursuing now above thirty years. You seem to love novelties and paradoxes, and to employ your learning to support them. I do assure you, I have a just value for many valuable things that I know to be in you ; and do heartily lament every thing that is otherwise.\"\n\nPrinted 1689 in Latin under the title of \"Dissertationes in Irenaeum\". These Dissertations are only a to what he farther designed, which was to show what the ancient heresies were, which disturbed the primitive Church, and what the foundation of them was.\n\nWe have at this day, certain most authentic ecclesiastical writers of the times, as Clemens Romanus, Barnabas, Hermas, Ignatius, and Polycarp, who wrote in the same order wherein I have named them, and after all the writers of the New Testament. But in Hermas you will not find one passage, or any mention of the New Testament, nor in all the rest is any one of the evangelists named. If sometimes they cite passages like those we read in our gospels, you will find them so changed, and for the most part so interpolated, that it cannot be known whether they produced them out of ours, or some apocryphal gospels. Nay, they sometimes cite passages which most certainly are not in our present gospels.\n\nHis chief works on classical chronology are:\n\nHis eldest son Henry Dodwell was the author of a pamphlet entitled \"Christianity not founded on Argument\", to which a reply was published by his brother William Dodwell (1709–1785), who was concurrently engaged in a controversy with Conyers Middleton on the subject of miracles. The pamphlet received many published replies at the time, and even as late as 1904 replies were still being made. Even the great Jonathan Swift was moved to write a reply against it.\n\n"}
{"id": "11434725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11434725", "title": "Heredia, Costa Rica", "text": "Heredia, Costa Rica\n\nHeredia () is a city in the Heredia province of Costa Rica, of which it is the capital; it is 10 kilometers to the north of the country's capital, San José.\n\nThe city is home to one of the largest colleges in Costa Rica, the National University of Costa Rica, which accepts many international students.\n\nPrior to its founding, the area around Heredia was inhabited by the native tribe that is known as the Huetares, who were commanded at the coming of the Spanish by the \"Cacique\" Garavito. In 1706 settlers from Cartago, set up a small church at a place they called \"Alvirilla\", which soon became more populated. Between 1716 and 1717 the settlers moved their village to the north, to a place the Indians called Cubujuquí. In 1736 Heredia was deemed sufficiently large to be granted its own parish, and the first incarnation of the Iglesia de la Inmaculada was built to serve as its parish church. In 1751, the Bishop of Nicaragua and Costa Rica, Monseñor Pedro Agustín Morel de Santa Cruz supervised the founding of the first school in Heredia, which was run by the church. This school is now known as the Liceo de Heredia. In 1763 the town was promoted to the status of \"Villa\"; it was later renamed Heredia in honor of the President of the Real Audiencia of Guatemala who had conferred the status, don Alonso Fernández de Heredia. During the 18th century the area around Heredia was developed, with the founding Barva and other towns. On October 31, 1796, Padre Felix de Alvarado laid the foundation stone for the rebuilding of the Iglesia de la Inmaculada. The Municipality of Heredia was founded on 19 May 1812, and in 1824, Heredia was promoted to city by Juan Rafael Mora, the first President of the Republic. The 1848 constitution made Heredia the capital of Heredia Province, promoted it to \"cantón\", and assigned it seven parishes.\n\nFor a brief period in the 1830s, Heredia served as the capital of Costa Rica.\n\nHeredia is located 11km north of San José and is part of the greater metropolitan area.\n\nWarm year-round, the temperatures are tempered by the amount of cloud cover that affects the area. The rains are spread throughout the year, but the rainiest period is May to October. The climate is relatively mild throughout the year.\n\nThe city's football club is Herediano, who have won the league title 25 times. They play their home games at the Estadio Eladio Rosabal Cordero.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "848901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=848901", "title": "Historian's fallacy", "text": "Historian's fallacy\n\nThe historian's fallacy is an informal fallacy that occurs when one assumes that decision makers of the past viewed events from the same perspective and having the same information as those subsequently analyzing the decision. It is not to be confused with presentism, a mode of historical analysis in which present-day ideas (such as moral standards) are projected into the past.\n\nThe idea that a critic can make erroneous interpretations of past works because of knowledge of subsequent events was first articulated by British literary critic Matthew Arnold. In his 1880 essay \"The Study of Poetry\", Arnold wrote:\n\nThe course of development of a nation’s language, thought, and poetry, is profoundly interesting; and by regarding a poet’s work as a stage in this course of development we may easily bring ourselves to make it of more importance as poetry than in itself it really is, we may come to use a language of quite exaggerated praise in criticising it; in short, to overrate it. So arises in our poetic judgments the fallacy caused by the estimate which we may call historic.\n\nThe concept of the historian's fallacy was named and outlined in 1970 by David Hackett Fischer, who suggested it was analogous to William James's psychologist's fallacy. Fischer did not suggest that historians should refrain from retrospective analysis in their work, but he reminded historians that their subjects were not able to see into the future. As an example, he cited the well-known argument that Japan's surprise attack on Pearl Harbor should have been predictable in the United States because of the many indications that an attack was imminent. What this argument overlooks, says Fischer, citing the work of Roberta Wohlstetter, is that there were innumerable conflicting signs which suggested possibilities other than an attack on Pearl Harbor. Only in retrospect do the warning signs seem obvious; signs which pointed in other directions tend to be forgotten. (See also: hindsight bias.)\n\nIn the field of military history, historians sometimes use what is known as the \"fog of war technique\" in hopes of avoiding the historian's fallacy. In this approach, the actions and decisions of the historical subject (such as a military commander) are evaluated primarily on the basis of what that person knew at the time, and not on future developments that the person could not have known. According to Fischer, this technique was pioneered by the American historian Douglas Southall Freeman in his influential biographies of Robert E. Lee and George Washington.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "530331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530331", "title": "History of Punjab", "text": "History of Punjab\n\nThe History of Punjab is intertwined with the history of the broader Indian subcontinent and the surrounding regions of South Asia, Central Asia and West Asia. Historically known as Sapta Sindhu, or the \"Land of Seven Rivers\", the name Punjab was given by later Muslim conquest in the Indian subcontinent. \n\nAncient Punjab region was the primary geographical extent of the Indus Valley Civilisation, which was notable for advanced technologies and amenities that the people of the region had used. The region was historically a Hindu-Buddhist region, known for its high activity of scholarship, technology, and arts. Intermittent wars between various kingdoms was characteristic of this time, except in times of temporary unification under centralised Indian Empires or invading powers.\n\nAfter the arrival of Islamic invaders, that had managed to rule throughout a long period of the region's history, much of Western Punjab had become a centre of Islamic culture in the Indian subcontinent. An interlude of Sikh rule under the Maharaja Ranjit Singh and his Sikh Empire had seen a brief resurfacing of traditional culture until the British had annexed the region into their larger British Empire. After the British had left, the region was partitioned into a Hindu-Sikh majority area that would go to the secular state of India, and a Muslim majority area that would go to the Islamic state of Pakistan to prevent conflict.\n\nPunjab in ancient times was known as the \"Sapt-Sindhava\", or \"land of the seven rivers\". The name \"Punjab\" was given by later Islamic invaders. The aforementioned seven rivers were the Vitsta and Vitamasa (Jhelum), Asikni (Chenab), Parusni and Iravati (Ravi), Vipasa (Beas), and the Satudri (Sutlej).\n\nIt is believed by most scholars that the earliest trace of human habitation in India traces to the Soan valley between the Indus and the Jhelum rivers. This period goes back to the first inter-glacial period in the second Ice Age, from which remnants of stone and flint tools have been found.\nPunjab and the surrounding areas are the location of the ruins of the Indus Valley Civilisation, also known as the Harappan Civilisation. There are ruins of cities, thousands of years old, found in these areas with the most notable being those of Harappa, Rakhigarhi and Rupar. Besides the aforementioned sites, hundreds of ancient settlements have been found throughout the region, spanning an area of about 100 miles. These ancient towns and cities had advanced features such as city-planning, brick-built houses, sewage and draining systems, as well as public baths. The people of the Indus Valley also developed a writing system, that has to this day not been deciphered.\n\nLiterary evidence from the Vedic era suggests a transition from early small janas, or tribes, to many Janapadas (territorial civilisations) and gaṇa sangha societies. The latter are loosely translated to being oligarchies or republics. These political entities were represented from the \"Rig Veda\" to the \"Astadhyayi\" by Panini. Archaeologically, the time span of these entities corresponds to phases also present in the Indo-Gangetic divide and the upper Gangetic basin.\n\nSome of the early Janas of the \"Rig Veda\" can be strongly attributed to Punjab. Although their distribution patterns are not satisfactorily ascertainable, they are associated with the Porusni, Asikni, Satudri, Vipas, and Saraswati. The rivers of Punjab often corresponded to the eastern Janapadas. \"Rig Vedic\" Janas such as the Druhyus, Anus, Purus, Yadus, Turvasas, Bharatas, and others were associated in Punjab and the Indo-Gangetic plain. Other \"Rig Vedic\" Janapadas such as the Pakhthas, Bhalanasas, Visanins, and Sivas were associated with areas in the north and west of Punjab.\nAn important event of the \"Rig Vedic\" era was the \"Battle of Ten Kings\" which was fought on the banks of the river Parusni (identified with the present-day Ravi river) between king Sudas of the Trtsu lineage of the Bharata clan on the one hand and a confederation of ten tribes on the other. The ten tribes pitted against Sudas comprised five major tribes: the Purus, the Druhyus, the Anus, the Turvasas and the Yadus; in addition to five minor ones: the Pakthas, the Alinas, the Bhalanas, the Visanins and the Sivas. Sudas was supported by the Vedic Rishi Vasishtha, while his former Purohita, the Rishi Viswamitra, sided with the confederation of ten tribes. Sudas had earlier defeated Samvaran and ousted him from Hastinapur. It was only after the death of Sudas that Samvaran could return to his kingdom.\n\nA second battle, referred to as the Mahabharat in ancient texts, was fought in Punjab on a battlefield known as Kurukshetra. This was fought between the Pandavas and the Kauravas. Duryodhana, a descendant of Kuru (who was the son of king Samvaran), had tried to insult the Panchali princess Draupadi in revenge for defeating his ancestor Samvaran.\n\nMany Janapadas were mentioned from Vedic texts and are confirmed by Ancient Greek historical sources. Most of the Janapadas that had exerted large territorial influence, or Mahajanapadas, had been raised in the Indo-Gangetic plain with the exception of Gandhara in modern-day Afghanistan. There was a large level of contact between all the Janapadas of ancient India with descriptions being given of trading caravans, movement of students from universities, and itineraries of princes.\n\nPre-Islamic Punjab was also a centre of learning for Ancient India, and many ashrams and universities. The most notable of the universities is that at Taxila (also referred to as Takhsh-Shila), which was dedicated to the study of the \"three Vedas and 18 branches of knowledge\". In its heyday, it had attracted students from all over India as well as those from surrounding countries.\n\nAfter overrunning the Achaemenid Empire, Alexander the Great turned his sights to India. This was the first time he moved beyond the limits of the Persian Empire. Alexander sent heralds ahead of him to the native rulers on the west side of the Indus and divided his army into two. He led one wing himself, and the other was commanded by Hephastion. Alexander took his troops and razed several cities, fought a battle at Massaka which turned into a massacre, and conducted the battle at Aornos rock. Somewhere in this region, Alexander visited a city called Nysa which was in legend founded by a god. After crossing the Indus, Alexander was welcomed by the native ruler of Takshashila, known to the Greeks as Taxila, and other allies. Onesikritos was sent to interview the native ascetics about their way of life, but the conversation was rumoured to be difficult as the Greeks had to use three different levels of interpreters. Alexander was nevertheless impressed enough to bring an Indian philosopher whom the Greeks called Kalanos. Another Indian philosopher was asked also but had refused to come. When Alexander had reached Malloi and Oxydrakai in 325 B.C, the people had claimed that they always lived freely, directly contradicting with Persian accounts of rule over the region. After this, Alexander's first opponent was the Raja Porus. Porus and Taxiles were longtime enemies, and the latter saw Alexander's arrival as a way to settle old scores.\n\nPorus and Alexander had fought a battle on the Hydaspes, which was the last major battle of Alexander's campaign. The armies had met in June, when the monsoon had begun, and it was the first time Alexander and his troops had encountered Elephants in battle. After the defeat of Porus in Greek sources, most armies that he had encountered had come to submit, with very few refusing to do so such as the people of Sangala who were massacred.Supposedly after the disheartened and homesick attitude of his troops, Alexander had returned home through Malois. On his return, Alexander had conquered many resisting Indian janas and Janapadas, and those who had refused were killed. Many Brahmans were noted to be executed by Alexander, much to the shock of the Indians. Nevertheless, Alexander made little effort to retain the land he had conquered.\n\nChandragupta Maurya, with the aid of Kautilya, had established his empire around 320 B.C. The early life of Chandragupta Maurya is not clear. Kautilya enrolled the young Chandragupta in the university at Taxila to educate him in the arts, sciences, logic, mathematics, warfare, and administration. With the help of the small Janapadas of Punjab and Sindh, he had gone on to conquer much of the North West. He then defeated the Nanda rulers in Pataliputra to capture the throne. Chandragupta Maurya fought Alexander's successor in the east, Seleucus when the latter invaded. In a peace treaty, Seleucus ceded all territories west of the Indus and offered a marriage, including a portion of Bactria, while Chandragupta granted Seleucus 500 elephants.\n\nChandragupta's rule was very well organised. The Mauryans had an autocratic and centralised administration system, aided by a council of ministers, and also a well-established espionage system. Much of Chandragupta's success is attributed to Chanakya, the author of the \"Arthashastra\". Much of the Mauryan rule had a strong bureaucracy that had regulated tax collection, trade and commerce, industrial activities, mining, statistics and data, maintenance of public places, and upkeep of temples.\n\nMauryan rule was advanced for its time, and foreign accounts of Indian cities mention many temples, libraries, universities, gardens, and parks. A notable account was that of the Greek ambassador Megasthenes who had visited the Mauryan capital of Pataliputra.\n\nThe assassination of the last Mauryan emperor by the general Pushyamitra did not end in the break up of Mauryan rule entirely. Some of the eastern provinces, such as that of Kalinga, were quick to assert independence. Punjab and much of the Indo-Gangetic plain were still under the hold of Pushyamitra's empire as well as under the subsequent smaller offshoots that had asserted its claim over the region.\n\nThe origins of the Gupta Empire are believed to be from local Rajas as only the father and grandfather of Chandra Gupta are mentioned in inscriptions. Chandra Gupta's reign was an unsettled one, but under his son, Samudra Gupta, the empire reached supremacy over India roughly similar to the proportions that the Maurya Empire had exercised before. Various records exist of Samudra Gupta's conquest, showing that nearly all of North India and a portion of Southern India had been under Gupta rule. The Empire was organised along the lines of provinces, frontier feudatories, and subordinate kings of vassal states that had sworn fealty to the Empire. In the case of Punjab, the local Janapadas were semi-independent but were expected to obey orders and pay homage to the empire. Samudra Gupta was regarded as a patron of the arts and humanities. Inscriptions give evidence to the Raja not only being a learned man, but one fond of the company of poets and writers; one type of coinage even shows him playing on the veena.\n\nSamudra Gupta was succeeded by his son Rama Gupta in whose time the Scythians, known as the Sakas, had begun to be recognised as a threat. Rama Gupta had attempted to pay off the Sakas, but this had cost him his throne. Usurped by Chandra Gupta II, the new emperor had begun to consolidate the power of the empire where traces of disruption had presented himself. Chandra Gupta II had gone on to defeat the Sakas, earning him the name \"Sakari Chandra Gupta\". By this time the Empire still ruled over much of North India, but the authority in the South seemed to lapse.\n\nAlthough the main achievement for which Chandra Gupta II is known is the victory over invaders, he was described as devoted to the arts of peace. Chandra Gupta II was an ardent worshipper of Vishnu, and was a patron of the revival of Puranic Hinduism——a movement that had revived and redefined Hinduism——displacing much of Buddhist influence within the period of a century. Under the Gupta court at this time the arts, sciences, and literature had flourished.\n\nThe 200 years of Gupta rule are said to be the climax of Hindu Imperial tradition. From the context of literature, art, religion, science, commerce, and architecture, the period under Gupta rule had prospered. The Mauryan bureaucracy, already converted to caste, had functioned with impartial loyalty throughout the Empire and surrounding areas. The Empire was organised in similar lines to that of the Mauryan Empire, and had a system of viceroys, governors, administrators, and ministers. Seals of police chiefs, military suppliers, and chief justices give further insight into the administration of the Guptas. The empire was also known for its art and architecture, characterised by the reduction of the foreign influence of the Greeks and Kushans, and re-assertion of Hindu art. The Gupta period was also the classical age of Sanskrit literature. Much of the original ancient Hindu texts from before the Gupta Empire are lost, but the current iterations of Sanskrit works such as that of the \"Mahabharata\" and \"Bhagvad Gita\" are from the editions of this time. The complete re-writing of the Hindu texts raised the question of why the writers of the period would do this. A historian claims that this was due to the foreign influence that was present due to previous invaders, and a re-writing was required for the re-assertion of the original ideals. Another feature of the Gupta rule was the development of Indian science. The early development of the decimal system with respect to zero, the heliocentric model, accurate calculations of the duration of a day, reasons behind eclipses, and advances in the natural sciences were all achievements from this period. Major scholars from this time included Aryabhata and Varahamhira.\n\nThe White Huns, who initially were part of the predominantly Buddhist Hephthalite group, established themselves in Afghanistan by the first half of the 5th century, with their capital at Bamiyan. The Huns invaded the Gupta Empire under Kumara Gupta (r.415-455). Kumara Gupta had just earlier defeated several revolts from the Pushyamitras, a tribe of central India. After the death of Kumaragupta in 467, the Huns renewed their attacks and managed to invade border provinces around this time. Kumara Gupta's son Skanda Gupta had managed to defeat further Hun invasions. Skanda Gupta managed to defeat the Huns in such a manner that they were fully routed; the consequences of the Gupta victory over the Huns were far-reaching, leading a historian to believe that this was likely the reason for the Hun invasions further West.\n\nAfter the death of Skanda Gupta, the Empire suffered from various wars of succession. The last major Gupta King was Buddha Gupta; after him, the Empire had split into various branches across India. Nevertheless, by the sixth century, the Huns had established themselves and Toramana and his son Mihirakula, who has been described to be a Saivite Hindu, had ruled over the approximate areas of Punjab, Rajputana, and Kashmir. Several accounts, including those by Chinese pilgrims, make reference to the cruelty of the Huns. There had been several alliances throughout this time that had checked the advance of the Huns, but it was not until 533-534 that Raja Yashovarman of Mandasor firmly defeated them.\n\nAfter the disintegration of the Gupta Empire, Northern India was ruled by several independent kingdoms which carried on the traditions of the Gupta Empire within their own territories. Harshavardhana, commonly called Harsha, was an Indian emperor who ruled northern India from 606 to 647 from his capital Kanauj. Harsha's grandfather was Adityavardhana, a feudatory ruler of Thanesvar in eastern Punjab. Under his son Prabhakarvardhana, the dynasty emerged as a major state which was constantly at odds with the Huns and the nearby rulers of Malwa. Harsha was his nephew, and sought to conquer all of the country; at the height of his power, his kingdom spanned the entirety of Northern India. Harsha was defeated by the south Indian Emperor Pulakeshin II of the Chalukya dynasty when Harsha tried to expand his Empire into southern peninsula of India.\n\nArab armies had earlier tried to penetrate deep into South Asia but were defeated by the South Indian Emperor Vikramaditya II of the Chalukya dynasty, South Indian general Dantidurga of the Rashtrakuta dynasty in Gujarat, and by Nagabhata of the Pratihara Dynasty in Malwa in the early 8th century. Despite repeated campaigns, in 698 and 700, Arabs also failed to occupy the Kandahar-Ghazni-Kabul route to the Khyber Pass. Two small Hindu states of Zabul and Kabul in southern Afghanistan stubbornly defended this strategic area between the river Sindh and Koh Hindu Kush.\n\nA Brahmin dynasty, more commonly known as the Hindu Shahis, was ruling from Kabul and later Waihind, another Brahmin dynasty ruled in Punjab. During this period a Turkic kingdom was established Ghazni and Sabuktagin ascended its throne in 977. The kingdom had rapidly conquered nearby kingdoms, and also conquered the Shahi capital of Kabul. Alarmed by the rapid expansion of the Ghaznavids, the Hindu Shahi kingdom twice attacked Sabuktagin but failed in his objective. Gradually, Sabuktagin conquered all Shahi territories in Afghanistan, north of the Khyber Pass. He died in 997 and was succeeded by his son Mahmud after a brief war of succession among the brothers. \n\nBhima Deva Shahi was the fourth king of the Hindu Kabul Shahis. As a devout Brahmin, in his old age, he committed ritual suicide in his capital town of Waihind, located on the right side of river Sindh, fourteen miles above Attock. As Bhimadeva had no male heir, Jayapala succeeded the Shahi throne, which had included areas spanning from Punjab to Kabul in Afghanistan. Jayapala was defeated at Peshawar by Mahmud of Ghazni and the Shahis lost all territory north of river Sindh. Anandapala and Trilochanapala, his son and grandson respectively, resisted Mahmud for another quarter of a century but Punjab was finally annexed to the Sultanate of Ghazni, around 1021. After the Muslim attacks, many Punjabi scholars of Sanskrit had fled to schools and universities in Benares and Kashmir, which were at the time unaffected by Islamic invasion. Al Biruni wrote: \"Hindu sciences have fled far away from those parts of the country that have been conquered by us, and fled to places which our hand cannot yet reach, to Kashmir, to Benares, and other places.\" These places were later to face the same depredations.\n\nIn the late 12th century, Muhammad of Ghori began a systematic invasion of India. Between 1175 and 1192, the Ghurid dynasty had occupied the cities of Uch, Multan, Peshawar, Lahore, and Delhi. In 1206, the Ghurid general Qutb-al-din Aybeg and his successor Iltutmish founded the first of the series of Delhi Sultanates. Each dynasty would be an alternation of various inner-Asian military lords and their clients, constantly vying for power. These sultanates would make Delhi a safe haven for Muslim Turks and Persians who would flee the eventual Mongol invasions.\n\nThe Khalji dynasty was the second dynasty of the Delhi sultanates, ruling from 1290 to 1320. This dynasty was a short-lived one, and extended Islamic rule to Gujarat, Rajasthan, the Deccan, and parts of Southern India. The Khalji dynasty reworked the tax system in India. Previously, the ruler would assign village locals to collect a share of the peasant's produce, using it to pay the soldiers and administrators. In 1300, Ala-al-din Khalji demanded that peasants pay one half of their produce, abolished the authority of local chiefs, and deprived the local lords of their power.\n\nIf the Delhi Sultanate, an offshoot of the Islamic conquest, was to rule over India, it was necessary for there to be the cultural and ideological integration of the people. This effort of integration and cohesion took time to develop. The first gesture to bring the people into Islam was to destroy major Hindu temples. This was done to loot riches and to signify the defeat of the Hindu rulers and their gods. Sometimes these destroyed temples were replaced by Mosques in order to show victory to both Hindus and rival Muslims. Examples are the mosque of Quwwat-al-Islam which incorporated stones and iron pillars from Hindu structures, and the Qutb Minar, which highlighted the presence of Islam. The dynasties of the Delhi sultanates stressed allegiance to the Caliphate and supported the judicial authority of the Ulama.\n\nThe Khalji dynasty was succeeded by the Tughluq dynasty, which had ruled from 1320 to 1413. Muhammad bin Tughluq was supported by Turkic warriors, and was the first to introduce non-Muslims into the administration, to participate in local festivals, and permit the construction of Hindu temples. To maintain his identity as a Muslim, the Muhammad bin Tughluq adhered to Islamic laws, swore allegiance to the caliph in Cairo, appointed Ulamas, and imposed the tax on non-Muslims. The Tughluq dynasty, however, disintegrated rapidly due to revolts by governors, resistance from locals, and the re-formation of independent Hindu kingdoms. The rule of the Delhi sultanates around this time was based upon Iranian-Muslim tradition. According to Barani, a Tughluq administrator in around 1360, the ruler must \"follow the teachings of the Prophet, enforce Islamic law, suppress rebellions, punish heretics, subordinate nonbelievers, and protect the weak against the strong\". The Islamic values that were idealised by the Delhi sultanates were ones that brought men in accordance with God's command by cultivating moral values in the governing authorities. \n\nAfter the death of the last Tughluq ruler Nasir-ud-din Mahmud, the nobles are believed to have chosen Daulat Khan Lodi for the throne. In 1414, Lodi was defeated by Khizr Khan, the founder of the Sayyid dynasty of the Sultanate. Khizr Khan professor to rule as the viceroy of Timur and his successor Shah Rukh. Under the Sayyid dynasty, Punjab, Dipalpur, and parts of Sindh had come under the rule of the Sultanates. During this time, various regions such as Bengal, Deccan, Malwa, and others had gained independence from the Sultanate. The rule of the Sayyid dynasty was characterised by frequent revolts by the Hindus of the various Punjabi doabs. The rule of the Sayyids experienced another revolt under the rule of their general Bahlul Lodi, who had at first occupied much of Punjab, yet failed to capture Delhi. In his second attempt, Bahlul Lodi captured Delhi and founded the Lodi dynasty, the last of the Delhi sultanates. The Lodi dynasty reached its peak under Bahlul's grandson Sikander Lodi. Various road and irrigation projects were taken under his rule, and the rule had patronised Persian culture. Despite this, there was still persecution of the local Hindu people as many temples, such as that of Mathura, were destroyed and had a system of widespread discrimination against Hindus. The rule of the last Lodi emperor was a weak one, and was eclipsed by the arrival of Babur's army. \n\nIn 1526, Babur, a Timurid descendant of Timur and Genghis Khan from the Fergana Valley (modern-day Uzbekistan) was ousted from his ancestral domain in Central Asia. Bābur turned to India and crossed the Khyber Pass. From his base in Afghanistan, he was able to secure control of Punjab, and in 1526 he decisively defeated the forces of the Delhi sultan Ibrāhīm Lodī at the First Battle of Panipat. The next year, he defeated the Rajput confederacy under Rana Sanga of Mewar, and in 1529 defeated the remnants of the Delhi sultanates. At his death in 1530 the Mughal Empire encompassed almost all of Northern India.\n\nBābur’s son Humāyūn (reigned 1530–40 and 1555–56) had lost territory to rebels, but Humāyūn’s son Akbar (reigned 1556–1605) defeated the Hindu king Hemu at the Second Battle of Panipat (1556) and reestablished Mughal rule. Akbar's son Jahangir had furthered the size of the Mughal Empire through conquest, yet left much of the state bankrupt as a result. Jahangir's son Shah Jahan (reigned 1628–1658) was known for his monuments, including the Taj Mahal. Shah Jahan's son Aurangzeb was especially known for his religious intolerance and was known for his destruction of schools and temples which he saw as un-Islamic. In addition to the murder of a Sikh Guru, Aurangzeb had instilled heavy taxes on Hindus and Sikhs that had later led to an economic depression.\n\nDuring the reign of Muḥammad Shah (1719–48), the empire began to decline, accelerated by warfare and rivalries, and. After the death of Muḥammad Shah in 1748, the Marathas attacked and ruled almost all of northern India. Mughal rule was reduced to only a small area around Delhi, which passed under Maratha (1785) and the British (1803) control. The last Mughal, Bahādur Shah II (reigned 1837–57), was exiled to Burma by the British.\n\nThe Sikh religion began around the time of the conquest of Northern India by Babur Shah, the founder of the Mughal Empire. The later Muslim Emperor Jahangir, however, saw the Sikhs as a political threat. He ordered Guru Arjun Dev to be put to death after he had refused to change the passage about Islam in the Adi Granth. When the Guru refused, Jahangir ordered him to be put to death by torture. Guru Arjan Dev's death led to the sixth Guru Guru Hargobind to declare sovereignty in the creation of the Akal Takht and the establishment of a fort to defend Amritsar. Jahangir then jailed Guru Hargobind at Gwalior, but released him after a number of years when he no longer felt threatened. The succeeding son of Jahangir, Shah Jahan, took offence at Guru Hargobind's declaration and after a series of assaults on Amritsar, forced the Sikhs to retreat to the Sivalik Hills. The ninth Guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur, moved the Sikh community to Anandpur and travelled extensively to visit and preach in defiance of Aurangzeb, who attempted to install Ram Rai as new guru. Guru Tegh Bahadur aided Kashmiri Pandits in avoiding conversion to Islam and was arrested by Aurangzeb. When offered a choice between conversion to Islam and death, he chose to die rather than compromise his principles and was executed. Guru Gobind Singh assumed the guruship in 1675 and established the Khalsa, a collective army of baptised Sikhs, on 30 March 1699. The establishment of the Khalsa united the Sikh community against various Mughal-backed claimants to the guruship.\n\nBanda Singh Bahadur (also known as \"Lachman Das\", \"Lachman Dev\" and \"Madho Das\"), (1670–1716) met Guru Gobind Singh at Nanded and adopted the Sikh religion. A short time before his death, Guru Gobind Singh ordered him to conquer Punjab and gave him a letter that commanded all Sikhs to join him. After two years of gaining supporters, Banda Singh Bahadur initiated an agrarian uprising by breaking up the large estates of Zamindar families and distributing the land to the peasants. During the rebellion, Banda Singh Bahadur made it a point to destroy the cities in which the Muslims had been cruel to the supporters of Guru Gobind Singh. He executed Wazir Khan in revenge for the deaths of Guru Gobind Singh's sons after the Sikh victory at Sirhind. He ruled the territory between the Sutlej river and the Yamuna river, established a capital in the Himalayas at Lohgarh and struck coinage in the names of Guru Nanak and Guru Gobind Singh. In 1716, he was defeated by the Mughals at his fort at Gurdas Nangal. The captured Sikhs were beheaded, their heads stuffed with hay, mounted on spears and carried on a procession to Delhi en route to the Qutb Minar. Banda Singh was told to dismount, as the Muslims placed his child in his arms and bade him to kill it. The child was ripped open and fed to him, as the Muslims had dismembered his limbs after refusing to convert to Islam.\n\nIn 1747, the \"Durrani kingdom\" was established by the Pakhtun general, Ahmad Shah Abdali, and included Balochistan, Peshawar, Daman, Multan, Sindh, and Punjab. The first time Ahmad Shah invaded Hindustan, the Mughal imperial army checked his advance successfully. Yet subsequent events led to a double alliance, one by marriage and another politically, between the Afghan King and the Mughal Emperor. The battle of Panipat was the effect of this political alliance. After the victory of Panipat, Ahmad Shah Durrani became the primary ruler over Northern India. The influence of Durrani monarch continued in Northern India up to his death.\n\nIn 1757, the Sikhs were persistently ambushing guards to loot trains. In order to send a message, and prevent such occurrences from recurring, Ahmad Shah destroyed the Shri Harimandir Sahib and filled the Sarovar (Holy water pool) with cow carcasses.\n\nIn 1758 the Maratha Empire's general Raghunathrao attacked and conquered Lahore and Attock driving out Timur Shah Durrani, the son and viceroy of Ahmad Shah Abdali, in the process. Lahore, Multan, Kashmir and other subahs on the eastern side of Attock were under Maratha rule. In Punjab and Kashmir, the Marathas were now major players. In 1761, following the victory at the Third battle of Panipat between the Durrani and the Maratha Empire, Ahmad Shah Abdali captured remnants of the Maratha Empire in Punjab and Kashmir regions and had consolidated control over them.\n\nIn 1762, there were persistent conflicts with the Sikhs. Sikh holocaust of 1762 took place under the Muslim provincial government based at Lahore to wipe out the Sikhs, with 30,000 Sikhs being killed, an offensive that had begun with the Mughals, with the Sikh holocaust of 1746, and lasted several decades under its Muslim successor states. The rebuilt Harminder Sahib was destroyed, and the pool was filled with cow entrails, again.\n\nIn 1799, a process to unify Punjab was started by Ranjit Singh. Training his army under the style of the East India Company, it was able to conquer much of Punjab and surrounding areas. The use of the suzerain-vassal polity as established by previous rulers had been instrumental in establishing the political control of the Sikhs. During this time, there was an increase in the population of Sikhs as well. In towns and cities, there was an increase in the population of urban Sikhs, while the same happened with an increase in rural Sikhs. This had also likely led to some of the ideological differences between Sikhs around this time.\n\nThe invasions of the Muslim Zaman Shah, the second successor of Ahmad Shah Abdali had served as a catalyst. After the first invasion, Singh had recovered his own fort at Rohtas. During the second invasion, he had emerged as a leading Sikh chief. After the third invasion, he had decisively defeated Zamah Shah. This had eventually led to the takeover of Lahore in 1799. In 1809, Singh signed the Treaty of Amritsar with the British; in this treaty, Singh was recognised as the sole ruler of Punjab by the British and was given freedom to fight against the Muslims of surrounding areas.\n\nWithin ten years of Ranjit Singh's death in 1839, the Empire was taken over by the British who had already more or less exerted indirect or direct influence throughout the Subcontinent. At Lahore, there were increasing levels of nobles vying for power. A growing instability, allowed the British to come in and take over control of the area. After the British victories at the battles of the Sutlej in 1845–46, the army and territory of the boy Raja Duleep Singh was cut down. Lahore was garrisoned by British troops, and given a resident in the Durbar. In 1849, the British had formally taken control.\nThe Punjab ruled under the British was larger than that under Ranjit Singh. The colonial rule of Punjab had instated a system of bureaucracy and measure of the law. Replacing the 'paternal' system of the ruling was replaced by 'machine rule' with a system of laws, codes, and procedures. For purposes of control, the British established new forms of communication and transportation. These included post systems, railways, roads, and telegraphs. Irrigation projects between 1860 and 1920 brought 10 million acres of land under cultivation. Despite these developments, colonial rule was marked by exploitation of resources. For the purpose of exports, the majority of external trade was controlled by British export banks. The Imperial government exercised control over the finances of Punjab and took the majority of the income for itself.\n\nTo the agrarian and commercial class was added a professional middle class that had risen the social ladder through the use of the English education, which opened up new professions in law, government, and medicine.\n\nBy the 1870s there had been communities of Muslims of the Wahabi sect, drawn from the lower classes, that intended to use jihad to get rid of the non-Muslims by force. A highlight of religious controversy during this time was that of the Ahmaddiya movement. Mirza Gulam Ahmad in his Burahin-i-Ahmaddiya which was meant to rejuvenate Islam on the basis of the Quran, had attempted to refute both Christian missionaries, and Hindus and Sikhs. In another work, Ahmad argued that Guru Nanak was a Muslim. He interpreted Jihad as a peaceful method, and declared himself to be the Messiah. This was met with significant controversy. In the first and second decades of the early 20th century, the idea of Hindu and Muslim separation had become an active political tone. Muslims were told to remain aloof of the Indian National Congress, the main body seeking Indian Independence, because there was a general fear that representation based on elections and employment based upon competition was not in their interest. The All India Muslim League's demand for separate electorates for Muslims was granted at Amritsar in 1909. The Muslim league also demanded separate electorates in every province, even in those without Muslim majority populations, which was also granted by the Indian National Congress in 1916.\n\nAn important event of the British Raj in Punjab was the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre of 1919. The British brigadier-general R.E.H Dyer marched fifty riflemen of the 1/9th Gurkhas, 54th Sikhs, and 59th Sikhs into the Bagh and ordered them to open fire into the crowd that had collected there. The official number of deaths given by the British was given as 379 people dead, but there are reported to be greater than 1000 killed. There had been many Indian Independence movements in Punjab at the time as well. Notably, the actions of Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, and Rajguru on 17 December, 1928 in which the trio was responsible for killing J.P Saunders in revenge for the latter's murder of Lala Lajpati Rai. They were also responsible for the bombing of the Legislative Assembly in Delhi on the 8th of April in 1929. The three believed that the nonviolent movement was a failure. Nevertheless, the use of violence in the Indian Independence movement became unpopular after the execution of the trio on the 23 March 1932.\n\nIn 1947, the Punjab Province of British India was divided along religious lines into West Punjab and East Punjab. The western part was assimilated into the new country of Pakistan while the east stayed in India. This led to riots. The Partition of India in 1947 split the former Raj province of Punjab; the mostly Muslim western part became the Pakistani province of West Punjab and the mostly Sikh and Hindu eastern part became the Indian province of Punjab. Many Sikhs and Hindus lived in the west, and many Muslims lived in the east, and so partition saw many people displaced and much intercommunal violence. Several small Punjabi princely states, including Patiala, also became part of India.\nThe undivided Punjab, of which Punjab (Pakistan) forms a major region today, was home to a large minority population of Punjabi Sikhs and Hindus unto 1947 apart from the Muslim majority.\n\nBacked and trained by the Pakistani Inter-Services-Intelligence starting from the 1970s, a minority of Sikhs called for the creation of a state known as Khalistan, along with the lines of Pakistan. This had led to the state of emergency given by Indira Gandhi, who had called in Indian troops to stop the militants who were holding the Golden Temple hostage. Terrorist attacks targeted members of the Sikh majority that opposed the creation of Khalistan and wished to stay with India. The extremists carried out various attacks, including placing a bomb in an Air India flight over the Atlantic Ocean, killing more than 300 people. Other terrorist attacks had continued, notably against the Punjab police and others, in which more Sikhs were killed than other groups. Much of the funding for the fringe group had come from expatriate sources abroad in America and Europe, and most of the Sikh fringe separatist movements were based in Pakistan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13277", "title": "Holy Roman Empire", "text": "Holy Roman Empire\n\nThe Holy Roman Empire (; ) was a multi-ethnic complex of territories in Central Europe that developed during the Early Middle Ages and continued until its dissolution in 1806 during the Napoleonic Wars. The largest territory of the empire after 962 was the Kingdom of Germany, though it also came to include the neighboring Kingdom of Bohemia, the Kingdom of Burgundy, the Kingdom of Italy, and numerous other territories.\n\nOn 25 December 800, Pope Leo III crowned the Frankish king Charlemagne as Emperor, reviving the title in Western Europe, more than three centuries after the fall of the earlier ancient Western Roman Empire in 476. The title continued in the Carolingian family until 888 and from 896 to 899, after which it was contested by the rulers of Italy in a series of civil wars until the death of the last Italian claimant, Berengar I, in 924. The title was revived again in 962 when Otto I was crowned emperor, fashioning himself as the successor of Charlemagne and beginning a continuous existence of the empire for over eight centuries. Some historians refer to the coronation of Charlemagne as the origin of the empire, while others prefer the coronation of Otto I as its beginning. Scholars generally concur, however, in relating an evolution of the institutions and principles constituting the empire, describing a gradual assumption of the imperial title and role.\n\nThe exact term \"Holy Roman Empire\" was not used until the 13th century, but the concept of \"translatio imperii\", the notion that he—the sovereign ruler—held supreme power inherited from the ancient emperors of Rome, was fundamental to the prestige of the emperor. The office of Holy Roman Emperor was traditionally elective, although frequently controlled by dynasties. The mostly German prince-electors, the highest-ranking noblemen of the empire, usually elected one of their peers as \"King of the Romans\", and he would later be crowned emperor by the Pope; the tradition of papal coronations was discontinued in the 16th century.\n\nThe empire never achieved the extent of political unification as was formed to the west in France, evolving instead into a decentralized, limited elective monarchy composed of hundreds of sub-units: kingdoms, principalities, duchies, counties, prince-bishoprics, Free Imperial Cities, and other domains. The power of the emperor was limited, and while the various princes, lords, bishops, and cities of the empire were vassals who owed the emperor their allegiance, they also possessed an extent of privileges that gave them \"de facto\" independence within their territories. Emperor Francis II dissolved the empire on 6 August 1806 following the creation of the Confederation of the Rhine by emperor Napoleon I the month before.\n\nIn various languages the Holy Roman Empire was known as: , , (before Otto I), (by Otto I), , , , (before Otto I), (by Otto I). Before 1157, the realm was merely referred to as the \"Roman Empire\". The term \"sacrum\" (\"holy\", in the sense of \"consecrated\") in connection with the medieval Roman Empire was used beginning in 1157 under Frederick I Barbarossa (\"Holy Empire\"): the term was added to reflect Frederick's ambition to dominate Italy and the Papacy. The form \"Holy Roman Empire\" is attested from 1254 onward.\n\nIn a decree following the 1512 Diet of Cologne, the name was changed to the \"Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation\" (, ), a form first used in a document in 1474. The new title was adopted partly because the Empire had lost most of its Italian and Burgundian (Kingdom of Arles) territories to the south and west by the late 15th century, but also to emphasize the new importance of the German Imperial Estates in ruling the Empire due to the Imperial Reform. By the end of the 18th century, the term \"Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation\" had fallen out of official use. Besides, contradicting the traditional view concerning that designation, Hermann Weisert has stated in a study on imperial titulature that, despite the claim of many textbooks, the name \"Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation\" never had an official status and points out that documents were thirty times as likely to omit the national suffix as include it. This, or the shortened \"Roman Empire of the German Nation\", is often used in Germany to refer to the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nIn a famous assessment of the name, the political philosopher Voltaire (1694–1778) remarked sardonically: \"This agglomeration which was called and which still calls itself the Holy Roman Empire was in no way holy, nor Roman, nor an empire.\"\n\nAs Roman power in Gaul declined during the 5th century, local Germanic tribes assumed control. In the late 5th and early 6th centuries, the Merovingians, under Clovis I and his successors, consolidated Frankish tribes and extended hegemony over others to gain control of northern Gaul and the middle Rhine river valley region. By the middle of the 8th century, however, the Merovingians had been reduced to figureheads, and the Carolingians, led by Charles Martel, had become the \"de facto\" rulers. In 751, Martel's son Pepin became King of the Franks, and later gained the sanction of the Pope. The Carolingians would maintain a close alliance with the Papacy.\n\nIn 768 Pepin's son Charlemagne became King of the Franks and began an extensive expansion of the realm. He eventually incorporated the territories of present-day France, Germany, northern Italy, and beyond, linking the Frankish kingdom with Papal lands.\n\nIn 797, the Eastern Roman Emperor Constantine VI was removed from the throne by his mother Irene who declared herself Empress. As the Church regarded a male Roman Emperor as the head of Christendom, Pope Leo III sought a new candidate for the dignity. Charlemagne's good service to the Church in his defense of Papal possessions against the Lombards made him the ideal candidate. On Christmas Day of 800, Pope Leo III crowned Charlemagne emperor, restoring the title in the West for the first time in over three centuries. In 802, Irene was overthrown by Nikephoros I and henceforth there were two Roman Emperors.\n\nAfter Charlemagne died in 814, the imperial crown passed to his son, Louis the Pious. Upon Louis' death in 840, it passed to his son Lothair, who had been his co-ruler. By this point the territory of Charlemagne had been divided into several territories, and over the course of the later ninth century the title of Emperor was disputed by the Carolingian rulers of Western Francia and Eastern Francia, with first the western king (Charles the Bald) and then the eastern (Charles the Fat), who briefly reunited the Empire, attaining the prize. After the death of Charles the Fat in 888, however, the Carolingian Empire broke apart, and was never restored. According to Regino of Prüm, the parts of the realm \"spewed forth kinglets\", and each part elected a kinglet \"from its own bowels\". After the death of Charles the Fat, those crowned emperor by the pope controlled only territories in Italy. The last such emperor was Berengar I of Italy, who died in 924.\n\nAround 900, autonomous stem duchies (Franconia, Bavaria, Swabia, Saxony, and Lotharingia) reemerged in East Francia. After the Carolingian king Louis the Child died without issue in 911, East Francia did not turn to the Carolingian ruler of West Francia to take over the realm but instead elected one of the dukes, Conrad of Franconia, as \"Rex Francorum Orientalium\". On his deathbed, Conrad yielded the crown to his main rival, Henry the Fowler of Saxony (r. 919–36), who was elected king at the Diet of Fritzlar in 919. Henry reached a truce with the raiding Magyars, and in 933 he won a first victory against them in the Battle of Riade.\n\nHenry died in 936, but his descendants, the Liudolfing (or Ottonian) dynasty, would continue to rule the Eastern kingdom for roughly a century. Upon Henry the Fowler's death, Otto, his son and designated successor, was elected King in Aachen in 936. He overcame a series of revolts from a younger brother and from several dukes. After that, the king managed to control the appointment of dukes and often also employed bishops in administrative affairs.\n\nIn 951, Otto came to the aid of Adelaide, the widowed queen of Italy, defeating her enemies, marrying her, and taking control over Italy. In 955, Otto won a decisive victory over the Magyars in the Battle of Lechfeld. In 962, Otto was crowned Emperor by Pope John XII, thus intertwining the affairs of the German kingdom with those of Italy and the Papacy. Otto's coronation as Emperor marked the German kings as successors to the Empire of Charlemagne, which through the concept of \"translatio imperii\", also made them consider themselves as successors to Ancient Rome.\n\nThe kingdom had no permanent capital city. Kings traveled between residences (called Kaiserpfalz) to discharge affairs. However, each king preferred certain places; in Otto's case, this was the city of Magdeburg. Kingship continued to be transferred by election, but Kings often ensured their own sons were elected during their lifetimes, enabling them to keep the crown for their families. This only changed after the end of the Salian dynasty in the 12th century.\n\nIn 963, Otto deposed the current Pope John XII and chose Pope Leo VIII as the new pope (although John XII and Leo VIII both claimed the papacy until 964 when John XII died). This also renewed the conflict with the Eastern Emperor in Constantinople, especially after Otto's son Otto II (r. 967–83) adopted the designation \"imperator Romanorum\". Still, Otto II formed marital ties with the east when he married the Byzantine princess Theophanu. Their son, Otto III, came to the throne only three years old, and was subjected to a power struggle and series of regencies until his age of majority in 994. Up to that time, he had remained in Germany, while a deposed Duke, Crescentius II, ruled over Rome and part of Italy, ostensibly in his stead.\n\nIn 996 Otto III appointed his cousin Gregory V the first German Pope. A foreign pope and foreign papal officers were seen with suspicion by Roman nobles, who were led by Crescentius II to revolt. Otto III's former mentor Antipope John XVI briefly held Rome, until the Holy Roman Emperor seized the city.\n\nOtto died young in 1002, and was succeeded by his cousin Henry II, who focused on Germany.\n\nHenry II died in 1024 and Conrad II, first of the Salian Dynasty, was elected king only after some debate among dukes and nobles. This group eventually developed into the college of Electors.\n\nThe Holy Roman Empire became eventually composed of four kingdoms. The kingdoms were:\n\nKings often employed bishops in administrative affairs and often determined who would be appointed to ecclesiastical offices. In the wake of the Cluniac Reforms, this involvement was increasingly seen as inappropriate by the Papacy. The reform-minded Pope Gregory VII was determined to oppose such practices, which led to the Investiture Controversy with King Henry IV (r. 1056–1106). He repudiated the Pope's interference and persuaded his bishops to excommunicate the Pope, whom he famously addressed by his born name \"Hildebrand\", rather than his regnal name \"Pope Gregory VII\". The Pope, in turn, excommunicated the king, declared him deposed, and dissolved the oaths of loyalty made to Henry. The king found himself with almost no political support and was forced to make the famous Walk to Canossa in 1077, by which he achieved a lifting of the excommunication at the price of humiliation. Meanwhile, the German princes had elected another king, Rudolf of Swabia. Henry managed to defeat him but was subsequently confronted with more uprisings, renewed excommunication, and even the rebellion of his sons. After his death, his second son, Henry V, reached an agreement with the Pope and the bishops in the 1122 Concordat of Worms. The political power of the Empire was maintained, but the conflict had demonstrated the limits of the ruler's power, especially in regard to the Church, and it robbed the king of the sacral status he had previously enjoyed. The Pope and the German princes had surfaced as major players in the political system of the empire.\n\nWhen the Salian dynasty ended with Henry V's death in 1125, the princes chose not to elect the next of kin, but rather Lothair, the moderately powerful but already old Duke of Saxony. When he died in 1137, the princes again aimed to check royal power; accordingly they did not elect Lothair's favoured heir, his son-in-law Henry the Proud of the Welf family, but Conrad III of the Hohenstaufen family, the grandson of Emperor Henry IV and thus a nephew of Emperor Henry V. This led to over a century of strife between the two houses. Conrad ousted the Welfs from their possessions, but after his death in 1152, his nephew Frederick I \"Barbarossa\" succeeded him and made peace with the Welfs, restoring his cousin Henry the Lion to his – albeit diminished – possessions.\n\nThe Hohenstaufen rulers increasingly lent land to \"ministerialia\", formerly non-free servicemen, who Frederick hoped would be more reliable than dukes. Initially used mainly for war services, this new class of people would form the basis for the later knights, another basis of imperial power. A further important constitutional move at Roncaglia was the establishment of a new peace mechanism for the entire empire, the Landfrieden, with the first imperial one being issued in 1103 under Henry IV at Mainz. This was an attempt to abolish private feuds, between the many dukes and other people, and to tie the Emperor's subordinates to a legal system of jurisdiction and public prosecution of criminal acts – a predecessor of the modern concept of \"rule of law\". Another new concept of the time was the systematic foundation of new cities by the Emperor and by the local dukes. These were partly caused by the explosion in population, and they also concentrated economic power at strategic locations. Before this, cities had only existed in the form of old Roman foundations or older bishoprics. Cities that were founded in the 12th century include Freiburg, possibly the economic model for many later cities, and Munich.\n\nFrederick I, also called Frederick Barbarossa, was crowned Emperor in 1155. He emphasized the \"Romanness\" of the empire, partly in an attempt to justify the power of the Emperor independent of the (now strengthened) Pope. An imperial assembly at the fields of Roncaglia in 1158 reclaimed imperial rights in reference to Justinian's Corpus Juris Civilis. Imperial rights had been referred to as \"regalia\" since the Investiture Controversy but were enumerated for the first time at Roncaglia. This comprehensive list included public roads, tariffs, coining, collecting punitive fees, and the investiture or seating and unseating of office holders. These rights were now explicitly rooted in Roman Law, a far-reaching constitutional act.\n\nFrederick's policies were primarily directed at Italy, where he clashed with the increasingly wealthy and free-minded cities of the north, especially Milan. He also embroiled himself in another conflict with the Papacy by supporting a candidate elected by a minority against Pope Alexander III (1159–81). Frederick supported a succession of antipopes before finally making peace with Alexander in 1177. In Germany, the Emperor had repeatedly protected Henry the Lion against complaints by rival princes or cities (especially in the cases of Munich and Lübeck). Henry gave only lackluster support to Frederick's policies, and in a critical situation during the Italian wars, Henry refused the Emperor's plea for military support. After returning to Germany, an embittered Frederick opened proceedings against the Duke, resulting in a public ban and the confiscation of all his territories. In 1190, Frederick participated in the Third Crusade and died in the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia.\n\nDuring the Hohenstaufen period, German princes facilitated a successful, peaceful eastward settlement of lands that were uninhabited or inhabited sparsely by West Slavs. German speaking farmers, traders, and craftsmen from the western part of the Empire, both Christians and Jews, moved into these areas. The gradual Germanization of these lands was a complex phenomenon that should not be interpreted in the biased terms of 19th-century nationalism. The eastward settlement expanded the influence of the empire to include Pomerania and Silesia, as did the intermarriage of the local, still mostly Slavic, rulers with German spouses. The Teutonic Knights were invited to Prussia by Duke Konrad of Masovia to Christianize the Prussians in 1226. The monastic state of the Teutonic Order () and its later German successor state of Prussia were, however, never part of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nUnder the son and successor of Frederick Barbarossa, Henry VI, the Hohenstaufen dynasty reached its apex. Henry added the Norman kingdom of Sicily to his domains, held English king Richard the Lionheart captive, and aimed to establish a hereditary monarchy when he died in 1197. As his son, Frederick II, though already elected king, was still a small child and living in Sicily, German princes chose to elect an adult king, resulting in the dual election of Frederick Barbarossa's youngest son Philip of Swabia and Henry the Lion's son Otto of Brunswick, who competed for the crown. Otto prevailed for a while after Philip was murdered in a private squabble in 1208 until he began to also claim Sicily.\n\nPope Innocent III, who feared the threat posed by a union of the empire and Sicily, now supported by Frederick II, who marched to Germany and defeated Otto. After his victory, Frederick did not act upon his promise to keep the two realms separate. Though he had made his son Henry king of Sicily before marching on Germany, he still reserved real political power for himself. This continued after Frederick was crowned Emperor in 1220. Fearing Frederick's concentration of power, the Pope finally excommunicated the Emperor. Another point of contention was the crusade, which Frederick had promised but repeatedly postponed. Now, although excommunicated, Frederick led the Sixth Crusade in 1228, which ended in negotiations and a temporary restoration of the Kingdom of Jerusalem.\n\nDespite his imperial claims, Frederick's rule was a major turning point towards the disintegration of central rule in the Empire. While concentrated on establishing a modern, centralized state in Sicily, he was mostly absent from Germany and issued far-reaching privileges to Germany's secular and ecclesiastical princes: In the 1220 \"Confoederatio cum principibus ecclesiasticis,\" Frederick gave up a number of \"regalia\" in favour of the bishops, among them tariffs, coining, and fortification. The 1232 \"Statutum in favorem principum\" mostly extended these privileges to secular territories. Although many of these privileges had existed earlier, they were now granted globally, and once and for all, to allow the German princes to maintain order north of the Alps while Frederick concentrated on Italy. The 1232 document marked the first time that the German dukes were called \"domini terræ,\" owners of their lands, a remarkable change in terminology as well.\n\nThe Kingdom of Bohemia was a significant regional power during the Middle Ages. In 1212, King Ottokar I (bearing the title \"king\" since 1198) extracted a Golden Bull of Sicily (a formal edict) from the emperor Frederick II, confirming the royal title for Ottokar and his descendants and the Duchy of Bohemia was raised to a kingdom. Bohemian kings would be exempt from all future obligations to the Holy Roman Empire except for participation in the imperial councils. Charles IV set Prague to be the seat of the Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nAfter the death of Frederick II in 1250, the German kingdom was divided between his son Conrad IV (died 1254) and the anti-king, William of Holland (died 1256). Conrad's death was followed by the Interregnum, during which no king could achieve universal recognition, allowing the princes to consolidate their holdings and become even more independent rulers. After 1257, the crown was contested between Richard of Cornwall, who was supported by the Guelph party, and Alfonso X of Castile, who was recognized by the Hohenstaufen party but never set foot on German soil. After Richard's death in 1273, the Interregnum ended with the unanimous election of Rudolf I of Germany, a minor pro-Staufen count.\n\nDuring the 13th century, a general structural change in how land was administered prepared the shift of political power towards the rising bourgeoisie at the expense of aristocratic feudalism that would characterize the Late Middle Ages. Instead of personal duties, money increasingly became the common means to represent economic value in agriculture. Peasants were increasingly required to pay tribute to their lands. The concept of \"property\" began to replace more ancient forms of jurisdiction, although they were still very much tied together. In the territories (not at the level of the Empire), power became increasingly bundled: Whoever owned the land had jurisdiction, from which other powers derived. It is important to note, however, that jurisdiction at this time did not include legislation, which virtually did not exist until well into the 15th century. Court practice heavily relied on traditional customs or rules described as customary.\n\nDuring this time territories began to transform into the predecessors of modern states. The process varied greatly among the various lands and was most advanced in those territories that were almost identical to the lands of the old Germanic tribes, \"e.g.\" Bavaria. It was slower in those scattered territories that were founded through imperial privileges.\n\nThe difficulties in electing the king eventually led to the emergence of a fixed college of prince-electors (\"Kurfürsten\"), whose composition and procedures were set forth in the Golden Bull of 1356, which remained valid until 1806. This development probably best symbolizes the emerging duality between emperor and realm (\"Kaiser und Reich\"), which were no longer considered identical. The Golden Bull also set forth the system for election of the Holy Roman Emperor. The emperor now was to be elected by a majority rather than by consent of all seven electors. For electors the title became hereditary, and they were given the right to mint coins and to exercise jurisdiction. Also their sons were to know the imperial languages – German, Latin, Italian, and Czech.\n\nThe shift in power away from the emperor is also revealed in the way the post-Hohenstaufen kings attempted to sustain their power. Earlier, the Empire's strength (and finances) greatly relied on the Empire's own lands, the so-called \"Reichsgut\", which always belonged to the king of the day and included many Imperial Cities. After the 13th century, the relevance of the \"Reichsgut\" faded, even though some parts of it did remain until the Empire's end in 1806. Instead, the \"Reichsgut\" was increasingly pawned to local dukes, sometimes to raise money for the Empire, but more frequently to reward faithful duty or as an attempt to establish control over the dukes. The direct governance of the \"Reichsgut\" no longer matched the needs of either the king or the dukes.\n\nThe kings beginning with Rudolf I of Germany increasingly relied on the lands of their respective dynasties to support their power. In contrast with the \"Reichsgut\", which was mostly scattered and difficult to administer, these territories were relatively compact and thus easier to control. In 1282, Rudolf I thus lent Austria and Styria to his own sons. In 1312, Henry VII of the House of Luxembourg was crowned as the first Holy Roman Emperor since Frederick II. After him all kings and emperors relied on the lands of their own family (\"Hausmacht\"): Louis IV of Wittelsbach (king 1314, emperor 1328–47) relied on his lands in Bavaria; Charles IV of Luxembourg, the grandson of Henry VII, drew strength from his own lands in Bohemia. It was thus increasingly in the king's own interest to strengthen the power of the territories, since the king profited from such a benefit in his own lands as well.\n\nThe \"constitution\" of the Empire still remained largely unsettled at the beginning of the 15th century. Although some procedures and institutions had been fixed, for example by the Golden Bull of 1356, the rules of how the king, the electors, and the other dukes should cooperate in the Empire much depended on the personality of the respective king. It therefore proved somewhat damaging that Sigismund of Luxemburg (king 1410, emperor 1433–1437) and Frederick III of Habsburg (king 1440, emperor 1452–1493) neglected the old core lands of the empire and mostly resided in their own lands. Without the presence of the king, the old institution of the \"Hoftag\", the assembly of the realm's leading men, deteriorated. The \"Imperial Diet\" as a legislative organ of the Empire did not exist at that time. The dukes often conducted feuds against each other – feuds that, more often than not, escalated into local wars.\n\nSimultaneously, the Catholic Church experienced crises of its own, with wide-reaching effects in the Empire. The conflict between several papal claimants (two anti-popes and the \"legitimate\" Pope) ended only with the Council of Constance (1414–1418); after 1419 the Papacy directed much of its energy to suppress the Hussites. The medieval idea of unifying all Christendom into a single political entity, with the Church and the Empire as its leading institutions, began to decline.\n\nWith these drastic changes, much discussion emerged in the 15th century about the Empire itself. Rules from the past no longer adequately described the structure of the time, and a reinforcement of earlier \"Landfrieden\" was urgently needed. During this time, the concept of \"reform\" emerged, in the original sense of the Latin verb \"re-formare\" – to regain an earlier shape that had been lost.\n\nWhen Frederick III needed the dukes to finance a war against Hungary in 1486, and at the same time had his son (later Maximilian I) elected king, he faced a demand from the united dukes for their participation in an Imperial Court. For the first time, the assembly of the electors and other dukes was now called the Imperial Diet (German \"Reichstag\") (to be joined by the Imperial Free Cities later). While Frederick refused, his more conciliatory son finally convened the Diet at Worms in 1495, after his father's death in 1493. Here, the king and the dukes agreed on four bills, commonly referred to as the \"Reichsreform\" (Imperial Reform): a set of legal acts to give the disintegrating Empire some structure. For example, this act produced the Imperial Circle Estates and the \"Reichskammergericht\" (Imperial Chamber Court), institutions that would – to a degree – persist until the end of the Empire in 1806.\n\nHowever, it took a few more decades for the new regulation to gain universal acceptance and for the new court to begin to function effectively; only in 1512 would the Imperial Circles be finalized. The King also made sure that his own court, the \"Reichshofrat\", continued to operate in parallel to the \"Reichskammergericht\". Also in 1512, the Empire received its new title, the \"Heiliges Römisches Reich Deutscher Nation\" (\"Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation\").\n\nIn 1516, Ferdinand II of Aragon, grandfather of the future Holy Roman Emperor Charles V, died. Due to a combination of (1) the traditions of dynastic succession in Aragon, which permitted maternal inheritance with no precedence for female rule; (2) the insanity of Charles's mother, Joanna of Castile; and (3) the insistence by his remaining grandfather, Maximilian I, that he take up his royal titles, Charles initiated his reign in Castile and Aragon, a union which evolved into Spain, in conjunction with his mother. This ensured for the first time that all the realms of what is now Spain would be united by one monarch under one nascent Spanish crown. The founding territories retained their separate governance codes and laws. In 1519, already reigning as \"Carlos I\" in Spain, Charles took up the imperial title as \"Karl V\". The balance (and imbalance) between these separate inheritances would be defining elements of his reign and would ensure that personal union between the Spanish and German crowns would be short-lived. The latter would end up going to a more junior branch of the Habsburgs in the person of Charles's brother Ferdinand, while the senior branch continued to rule in Spain and in the Burgundian inheritance in the person of Charles's son, Philip II of Spain.\n\nIn addition to conflicts between his Spanish and German inheritances, conflicts of religion would be another source of tension during the reign of Charles V. Before Charles's reign in the Holy Roman Empire began, in 1517, Martin Luther launched what would later be known as the Reformation. At this time, many local dukes saw it as a chance to oppose the hegemony of Emperor Charles V. The empire then became fatally divided along religious lines, with the north, the east, and many of the major cities – Strasbourg, Frankfurt, and Nuremberg – becoming Protestant while the southern and western regions largely remained Catholic.\n\nCharles V continued to battle the French and the Protestant princes in Germany for much of his reign. After his son Philip married Queen Mary of England, it appeared that France would be completely surrounded by Habsburg domains, but this hope proved unfounded when the marriage produced no children. In 1555, Paul IV was elected pope and took the side of France, whereupon an exhausted Charles finally gave up his hopes of a world Christian empire. He abdicated and divided his territories between Philip and Ferdinand of Austria. The Peace of Augsburg ended the war in Germany and accepted the existence of Protestantism in form of Lutheranism, while Calvinism was still not recognized. Anabaptist, Arminian and other minor Protestant communities were also forbidden.\n\nGermany would enjoy relative peace for the next six decades. On the eastern front, the Turks continued to loom large as a threat, although war would mean further compromises with the Protestant princes, and so the Emperor sought to avoid it. In the west, the Rhineland increasingly fell under French influence. After the Dutch revolt against Spain erupted, the Empire remained neutral, \"de facto\" allowing the Netherlands to depart the empire in 1581, a secession acknowledged in 1648. A side effect was the Cologne War, which ravaged much of the upper Rhine.\n\nAfter Ferdinand died in 1564, his son Maximilian II became Emperor, and like his father accepted the existence of Protestantism and the need for occasional compromise with it. Maximilian was succeeded in 1576 by Rudolf II, a strange man who preferred classical Greek philosophy to Christianity and lived an isolated existence in Bohemia. He became afraid to act when the Catholic Church was forcibly reasserting control in Austria and Hungary, and the Protestant princes became upset over this. Imperial power sharply deteriorated by the time of Rudolf's death in 1612. When Bohemians rebelled against the Emperor, the immediate result was the series of conflicts known as the Thirty Years' War (1618–48), which devastated the Empire. Foreign powers, including France and Sweden, intervened in the conflict and strengthened those fighting Imperial power, but also seized considerable territory for themselves. The long conflict so bled the Empire that it never recovered its strength.\n\nThe actual end of the empire came in several steps. The Peace of Westphalia in 1648, which ended the Thirty Years' War, gave the territories almost complete independence. Calvinism was now allowed, but Anabaptists, Arminians and other Protestant communities would still lack any support and continue to be persecuted well until the end of the Empire. The Swiss Confederation, which had already established quasi-independence in 1499, as well as the Northern Netherlands, left the Empire. The Habsburg Emperors focused on consolidating their own estates in Austria and elsewhere.\n\nAt the Battle of Vienna (1683), the Army of the Holy Roman Empire, led by the Polish King John III Sobieski, decisively defeated a large Turkish army, stopping the western Ottoman advance and leading to the eventual dismemberment of the Ottoman Empire in Europe. The army was half forces of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, mostly cavalry, and half forces of the Holy Roman Empire (German/Austrian), mostly infantry.\n\nBy the rise of Louis XIV, the Habsburgs were chiefly dependent on their hereditary lands to counter the rise of Prussia; some of whose territories lay inside the Empire. Throughout the 18th century, the Habsburgs were embroiled in various European conflicts, such as the War of the Spanish Succession, the War of the Polish Succession, and the War of the Austrian Succession. The German dualism between Austria and Prussia dominated the empire's history after 1740.\n\nFrom 1792 onwards, revolutionary France was at war with various parts of the Empire intermittently.\n\nThe German mediatization was the series of mediatizations and secularizations that occurred between 1795 and 1814, during the latter part of the era of the French Revolution and then the Napoleonic Era. \"Mediatization\" was the process of annexing the lands of one imperial estate to another, often leaving the annexed some rights. For example, the estates of the Imperial Knights were formally mediatized in 1806, having \"de facto\" been seized by the great territorial states in 1803 in the so-called \"Rittersturm\". \"Secularization\" was the abolition of the temporal power of an ecclesiastical ruler such as a bishop or an abbot and the annexation of the secularized territory to a secular territory.\n\nThe empire was dissolved on 6 August 1806, when the last Holy Roman Emperor Francis II (from 1804, Emperor Francis I of Austria) abdicated, following a military defeat by the French under Napoleon at Austerlitz (see Treaty of Pressburg). Napoleon reorganized much of the Empire into the Confederation of the Rhine, a French satellite. Francis' House of Habsburg-Lorraine survived the demise of the empire, continuing to reign as Emperors of Austria and Kings of Hungary until the Habsburg empire's final dissolution in 1918 in the aftermath of World War I.\n\nThe Napoleonic Confederation of the Rhine was replaced by a new union, the German Confederation, in 1815, following the end of the Napoleonic Wars. It lasted until 1866 when Prussia founded the North German Confederation, a forerunner of the German Empire which united the German-speaking territories outside of Austria and Switzerland under Prussian leadership in 1871. This state developed into modern Germany.\n\nThe only princely member state of the Holy Roman Empire that has preserved its status as a monarchy until today is the Principality of Liechtenstein. The only Free Imperial Cities still being states within Germany are Hamburg and Bremen. All other historic member states of the HRE were either dissolved or are republican successor states to their princely predecessor states.\n\nThe Holy Roman Empire was not a highly centralized state like most countries today. Instead, it was divided into dozens – eventually hundreds – of individual entities governed by kings, dukes, counts, bishops, abbots, and other rulers, collectively known as princes. There were also some areas ruled directly by the Emperor. At no time could the Emperor simply issue decrees and govern autonomously over the Empire. His power was severely restricted by the various local leaders.\n\nFrom the High Middle Ages onwards, the Holy Roman Empire was marked by an uneasy coexistence with the princes of the local territories who were struggling to take power away from it. To a greater extent than in other medieval kingdoms such as France and England, the Emperors were unable to gain much control over the lands that they formally owned. Instead, to secure their own position from the threat of being deposed, Emperors were forced to grant more and more autonomy to local rulers, both nobles, and bishops. This process began in the 11th century with the Investiture Controversy and was more or less concluded with the 1648 Peace of Westphalia. Several Emperors attempted to reverse this steady dissemination of their authority but were thwarted both by the papacy and by the princes of the Empire.\n\nThe number of territories represented in the Imperial Diet was considerable, numbering about 300 at the time of the Peace of Westphalia. Many of these \"Kleinstaaten\" (\"little states\") covered no more than a few square miles, and/or included several non-contiguous pieces, so the Empire was often called a \"Flickenteppich\" (\"patchwork carpet\"). \nAn entity was considered a \"Reichsstand\" (imperial estate) if, according to feudal law, it had no authority above it except the Holy Roman Emperor himself. The imperial estates comprised:\n\nA sum total of 1,500 Imperial estates has been reckoned. For a list of \"Reichsstände\" in 1792, see List of Imperial Diet participants (1792).\n\nA prospective Emperor had first to be elected King of the Romans (Latin: \"Rex Romanorum\"; German: \"römischer König\"). German kings had been elected since the 9th century; at that point they were chosen by the leaders of the five most important tribes (the Salian Franks of Lorraine, Ripuarian Franks of Franconia, Saxons, Bavarians, and Swabians). In the Holy Roman Empire, the main dukes and bishops of the kingdom elected the King of the Romans. In 1356, Emperor Charles IV issued the Golden Bull, which limited the electors to seven: the King of Bohemia, the Count Palatine of the Rhine, the Duke of Saxony, the Margrave of Brandenburg, and the archbishops of Cologne, Mainz, and Trier. During the Thirty Years' War, the Duke of Bavaria was given the right to vote as the eighth elector, and the Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg (colloquially, Hanover) was granted a ninth electorate; additionally, the Napoleonic Wars resulted in several electorates being reallocated, but these new electors never voted before the Empire's dissolution. A candidate for election would be expected to offer concessions of land or money to the electors in order to secure their vote.\n\nAfter being elected, the King of the Romans could theoretically claim the title of \"Emperor\" only after being crowned by the Pope. In many cases, this took several years while the King was held up by other tasks: frequently he first had to resolve conflicts in rebellious northern Italy or was quarreling with the Pope himself. Later Emperors dispensed with the papal coronation altogether, being content with the styling \"Emperor-Elect\": the last Emperor to be crowned by the Pope was Charles V in 1530.\n\nThe Emperor had to be male and of noble blood. No law required him to be a Catholic, but as the majority of the Electors adhered to this faith, no Protestant was ever elected. Whether and to what degree he had to be German was disputed among the Electors, contemporary experts in constitutional law, and the public. During the Middle Ages, some Kings and Emperors were not of German origin, but since the Renaissance, German heritage was regarded as vital for a candidate in order to be eligible for imperial office.\n\nThe Imperial Diet (\"Reichstag\", or \"Reichsversammlung\") was not a legislative body as we understand it today, as its members envisioned it more like a central forum where it was more important to negotiate than to decide. The Diet was theoretically superior to the emperor himself. It was divided into three classes. The first class, the Council of Electors, consisted of the electors, or the princes who could vote for King of the Romans. The second class, the Council of Princes, consisted of the other princes. The Council of Princes was divided into two \"benches\", one for secular rulers and one for ecclesiastical ones. Higher-ranking princes had individual votes, while lower-ranking princes were grouped into \"colleges\" by geography. Each college had one vote.\n\nThe third class was the Council of Imperial Cities, which was divided into two colleges: Swabia and the Rhine. The Council of Imperial Cities was not fully equal with the others; it could not vote on several matters such as the admission of new territories. The representation of the Free Cities at the Diet had become common since the late Middle Ages. Nevertheless, their participation was formally acknowledged only as late as in 1648 with the Peace of Westphalia ending the Thirty Years' War.\n\nThe Empire also had two courts: the \"Reichshofrat\" (also known in English as the Aulic Council) at the court of the King/Emperor, and the \"Reichskammergericht\" (Imperial Chamber Court), established with the Imperial Reform of 1495.\n\nAs part of the Imperial Reform, six Imperial Circles were established in 1500; four more were established in 1512. These were regional groupings of most (though not all) of the various states of the Empire for the purposes of defense, imperial taxation, supervision of coining, peace-keeping functions, and public security. Each circle had its own parliament, known as a \"Kreistag\" (\"Circle Diet\"), and one or more directors, who coordinated the affairs of the circle. Not all imperial territories were included within the imperial circles, even after 1512; the Lands of the Bohemian Crown were excluded, as were Switzerland, the imperial fiefs in northern Italy, the lands of the Imperial Knights, and certain other small territories like the Lordship of Jever.\n\nThe Army of the Holy Roman Empire (German \"Reichsarmee\", \"Reichsheer\" or \"Reichsarmatur\"; Latin \"exercitus imperii\") was created in 1422 and came to an end even before the Empire as the result of the Napoleonic Wars. It must not be confused with the Imperial Army (\"Kaiserliche Armee\") of the Emperor.\n\nDespite appearances to the contrary, the Army of the Empire did not constitute a permanent standing army that was always at the ready to fight for the Empire. When there was danger, an Army of the Empire was mustered from among the elements constituting it, in order to conduct an imperial military campaign or \"Reichsheerfahrt\". In practice, the imperial troops often had local allegiances stronger than their loyalty to the Emperor.\n\n\"Reichshofrat\" resided in Vienna.\n\n\"Reichskammergericht \" resided in Worms, Augsburg, Nuremberg, Regensburg, Speyer and Esslingen before it was moved permanently to Wetzlar.\n\n\"Reichstag\" resided variously in Paderborn, Bad Lippspringe, Ingelheim am Rhein, Diedenhofen (now Thionville), Aachen, Worms, Forchheim, Trebur, Fritzlar, Ravenna, Quedlinburg, Dortmund, Verona, Minden, Mainz, Frankfurt am Main, Merseburg, Goslar, Würzburg, Bamberg, Schwäbisch Hall, Augsburg, Nuremberg, Quierzy-sur-Oise, Speyer, Gelnhausen, Erfurt, Eger (now Cheb), Esslingen, Lindau, Freiburg, Cologne, Konstanz and Trier before it was moved permanently to Regensburg.\n\nThe Holy Roman Empire never had a capital city. Usually, the Holy Roman Emperor ruled from a place of his own choice. This was called an imperial seat. Seats of the Holy Roman Emperor included: Aachen (from 794), Munich (1328–1347 and 1744–1745), Prague (1355–1437 and 1576–1611), Vienna (1438–1576, 1611–1740 and 1745–1806) and Frankfurt am Main (1742–1744) among other cities.\n\nImperial elections were mostly held in Frankfurt am Main, but also took place in Augsburg, Rhens, Cologne and Regensburg. Going as far as into the 16th century, the elected Holy Roman Emperor was then crowned and appointed by the Pope in Rome, but individual coronations also happened in Ravenna, Bologna and Reims.\n\nOverall population figures for the Holy Roman Empire are extremely vague and vary widely. Given the political fragmentation of the Empire, there were no central agency that could compile such figures. According to an overgenerous contemporary estimate of the Austrian War Archives for the first decade of the 18th century, the Empire, including Bohemia and the Spanish Netherlands had a population of close to 28 million with a breakdown as follow:\n\n- 65 ecclesiastical states with 14 per cent of the total land area and 12 per cent of the population;<br>\n- 45 dynastic principalities with 80 per cent of the land and 80 per cent of the population;<br>\n- 60 dynastic counties and lordships with 3 per cent of the land and 3.5 per cent of the population;<br>\n- 60 imperial towns with 1 per cent of the land and 3.5 per cent of the population;<br>\n- Imperial knights' territories, numbering into the several hundreds, with 2 per cent of the land and 1 per cent of the population.\n\nGerman demographic historians have traditionally worked on estimates of the population of the Holy Roman Empire based on assumed population within the frontiers of Germany in 1871 or 1914. More recent estimates use less outdated criteria, but they remain guesswork. One estimate based on the frontiers of Germany in 1870 gives a population of some 15–17 million around 1600, declined to 10–13 million around 1650 (following the Thirty Years' War). Other historians who work on estimates of the population of the early modern Empire suggest the population declined from 20 million to some 16–17 million by 1650.\n\nA credible estimate for 1800 gives 27 million inhabitants for the Empire, with an overall breakdown as follow:\n\n- 9 million Austrian subjects (including Silesia, Bohemia and Moravia);<br>\n- 4 million Prussian subjects;<br>\n- 14–15 million inhabitants for the rest of the Empire.\n\nLargest cities or towns of the Empire by year:\n\nRoman Catholicism constituted the single official religion of the Empire until 1555. The Holy Roman Emperor was always a Roman Catholic.\n\nLutheranism was officially recognized in the Peace of Augsburg of 1555, and Calvinism in the Peace of Westphalia of 1648. Those two constituted the only officially recognized Protestant denominations, while various other Protestant confessions such as Anabaptism, Arminianism, etc. coexisted illegally within the Empire. Anabaptism came in a variety of denominations, including Mennonites, Schwarzenau Brethren, Hutterites, the Amish, and multiple other groups.\n\nIn addition, a Jewish minority existed in the Holy Roman Empire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18739413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18739413", "title": "Isaac-Joseph Berruyer", "text": "Isaac-Joseph Berruyer\n\nIsaac-Joseph Berruyer (7 November 1681, Rouen – 18 February 1758, Paris) was a French Jesuit historian. He entered the Society of Jesus in 1697.\n\nHis great work is \"A History of the People of God,\" published in three parts.\n\nThe first of these parts bears the title \"Histoire du peuple de Dieu depuis son origine jusqu'à la venue du Messie\" (7 vols., Paris, 1728). A revised and augmented edition of this was published in Paris in 1733. Next followed (Paris, 1734), a supplement, containing a continuation of the prophecies of the \"Old Testament\", the History of Job, maps necessary for understanding the sacred history, etc. By 1736 seven editions of the work had been issued. It was translated into German, Italian, Spanish, and Polish.\n\nThe second part of the \"history\" was published, also at Paris, in 1753: \"Histoire du peuple de Dieu depuis la naissance du Messie jusqu'à la fin de la Synagogue.\" in 1754 an \"édition plus exacte\" appeared at Antwerp (8 vols.) and in 1755, at Paris, still another edition (4 vols.). The latter contained five questions: (1) On Christ, the object of scriptures; (2) On Christ, the Son of God; (3) On Christ, the Son of Man; (4) On Christ, the founder of a new religion; (5) On the Presentation of Christ in the Temple and the Purification of the Blessed Virgin Mary. According to Augustin de Backer this second part of the History was published without the knowledge, and against the will, of the superiors in the Jesuit house in Paris. Berruyer put his name to only a small number of copies of this publication.\n\nThe third part of the work has the title, \"Histoire du peuple de Dieu, ou paraphrase des Épitres des Apôtres\" (2 vols., Lyons, 1757). The work, as various parts appeared, aroused an uproar and some bitter controversy. The freedom with which he described certain facts was considered unbecoming. Serious fault was found with the author for giving to portions of the sacred narrative the air of romance rather than of sober history. Some propositions put forward by him were construed as favoring Nestorianism. But above all Berruyer was blamed for following the opinions of Jean Hardouin.\n\nThe work was condemned by many bishops of France, by the superiors of the Society, by the Sorbonne, and by the Parliament of Paris. The first part was put on the Index, 27 May 1732; the second part, 3 December 1754, and by a Brief of Benedict XIV, 17 February 1758; the third part 24 April 1758, and by and Brief of Clement XIII, 2 December 1758. (See \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\", Rome, 1900, 62). A corrected edition of the first part, approved by the Roman Censors, was published at Besançon in 1828.\n\n"}
{"id": "4754466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4754466", "title": "Issam Nassar", "text": "Issam Nassar\n\nDr Issam Nassar (), is a Palestinian historian of photography in Palestine and the Middle East. He is professor of History at Illinois State University and a research fellow at the Institute for Palestine Studies. He taught at the University of California at Berkeley in 2006; Bradley University in 2003–2006 and al-Quds University in 1998–2003.\n\nNassar is the co-editor of \"Jerusalem Quarterly\" () and author of a number of books and articles, among them \"Laqatat Mughayirah\" (\"Different Snapshots: The History of Early Local Photography in Palestine\").\n\n"}
{"id": "34604641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34604641", "title": "James Hight", "text": "James Hight\n\nSir James Hight (3 November 1870 – 17 May 1958) was a New Zealand university professor, educational administrator and historian. He was born in Halswell near Christchurch, New Zealand on 3 November 1870. He died on 17 May 1958 and is buried at Linwood Cemetery.\n\nIn 1935, Hight was awarded the King George V Silver Jubilee Medal. In the 1947 New Year Honours he was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire for services to education.\n\nThe library building at the University of Canterbury is named for him.\n"}
{"id": "140359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140359", "title": "John Edward Lloyd", "text": "John Edward Lloyd\n\nSir John Edward Lloyd (who wrote as J. E. Lloyd) (5 May 1861 – 20 June 1947), was a Welsh historian, the author of the first serious history of the country's formative years, \"A History of Wales from the Earliest Times to the Edwardian Conquest\", 2 vols. London: Longmans, Green & Co., 1911; Second edition 1912; Third edition 1939.\n\nAnother of his great works was \"Owen Glendower: Owen Glyn Dŵr\", Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1931. For his achievements in the field, he was knighted in 1934. Under his editorship, the first edition of the \"Dictionary of Welsh Biography\" was compiled, though not published until after his death (1950).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2932718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2932718", "title": "John Hetherington", "text": "John Hetherington\n\nJohn Hetherington is a presumed apocryphal English haberdasher, often credited as the inventor of the top hat, which is said to have caused a riot when he first wore it in public on 15 January 1797.\n\nThe common form of the story, as reproduced in many books, has it that he was arraigned before the Lord Mayor on 15 January 1797 on a charge of breach of the peace and inciting a riot, and was required to post a £500 bond. Reportedly he had \"appeared on the public highway wearing upon his head what he called a silk hat (which was shiny lustre and calculated to frighten timid people)\" and the officers of the Crown stated that \"several women fainted at the unusual sight, while children screamed, dogs yelped and a younger son of Cordwainer Thomas was thrown down by the crowd which collected and had his right arm broken\".\n\nEvidently this story first appeared in a late 1890s edition of the \"Hatters' Gazette\": in 1899 the quarterly journal \"Notes and Queries\" reported the story, noting that it originated in \"a recent number of the Hatters' Gazette\".\n\nLater accounts also attribute the story to the \"Hatters' Gazette\" — however, both the \"Australian Law Review\" of 1927, and \"The Dearborn Independent\" in its \"I Read in the Papers\" column of 8 January 1927, erroneously describe it as being reported in a 1797 edition of the \"Hatters' Gazette\" (\"The Dearborn Independent\" specifying it more narrowly as the 16 January 1797 edition) — obviously an error, as the \"Hatters' Gazette\" only began publication in 1878.\n\n\"The Canberra Times\" for 10 June 1927 reproduced the usual account, with an introduction saying, \"During a discussion in the columns of 'The Times' (London) on the pioneer of umbrellas, a correspondent sent an extract from an old journal in her possession, dated 16 January 1797, giving the following amusing account of the wearing of the first silk hat in London\". It is not known which \"old journal\" is referred to, but as noted above it cannot be the \"Hatters' Gazette\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2785896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2785896", "title": "King's Highway (ancient)", "text": "King's Highway (ancient)\n\nThe King’s Highway was a trade route of vital importance in the ancient Near East, connecting Africa with Mesopotamia. It ran from Egypt across the Sinai Peninsula to Aqaba, from where it turned northward across Transjordan, leading to Damascus and the Euphrates River.\n\nAfter the Muslim conquest of the Fertile Crescent in the 7th century AD and until the 16th century it served as the \"darb al-hajj\" or pilgrimage road for Muslims coming from Syria, Iraq and beyond and heading for the holy city of Mecca.\n\nIn modern Jordan, Highway 35 and Highway 15 follow this route, connecting Irbid in the north with Aqaba in the south. The southern part crosses several deep wadis, making it a highly scenic if curvy and rather low-speed road.\n\nThe Highway began in Heliopolis, Egypt and from there went eastward to Clysma (modern Suez), through the Mitla Pass and the Egyptian forts of Nekhl and Themed in the Sinai desert to Eilat and Aqaba. From there the Highway turned northward through the Arabah, past Petra and Ma'an to Udruh, Sela, and Shaubak. It passed through Kerak and the land of Moab to Madaba, Rabbah Ammon/Philadelphia (modern Amman), Gerasa, Bosra, Damascus, and Tadmor, ending at Resafa on the upper Euphrates.\n\nNumerous ancient states, including Edom, Moab, Ammon, and various Aramaean polities depended largely on the King's Highway for trade.\n\nThe Nabataeans used this road as a trade route for luxury goods such as frankincense and spices from southern Arabia. It was possibly the cause of their war with Hasmonean Alexander Jannaeus and with Iturea in the beginning of the 1st century BC.\n\nDuring the Roman period the road was called \"Via Regia\". Emperor Trajan rebuilt and renamed it \"Via Traiana Nova\", under which name it served as a military and trade road along the fortified Limes Arabicus.\n\nThe Highway has also been used as an important pilgrimage route for Christians, as it passed next to Mount Nebo, Moses' death and burial site according to the Bible. Another road connected it with Jerusalem via al-Maghtas, the \"Baptism Site\" on the Jordan River (where Jesus is believed to have been baptized by John the Baptist), Livias and Jericho.\n\nAfter the Muslim conquests, the road was used it as the main Hajj route from Syria to Mecca, until the Ottoman Turks built the Tariq al-Bint in the 16th century.\n\nA difficult time was during the Crusader period, when the road passed through the province of Oultrejordain of the Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem. During periods of truce the Hajj caravans were usually left unharmed by the Crusader lords of Oultrejourdain, with the memorable exception of Raynald of Châtillon, who attacked and plundered the pilgrims twice. His deeds would eventually lead not only to his own death at the hands of Saladin, but altogether to the fall of the Crusader kingdom in 1187.\n\nThe King's Highway or \"Derech HaMelech\" is referred to in the Book of Numbers, (, ), where it is related that the Israelites, in their Exodus journey needed to use the road. They had left from Kadesh, and requested right of way across from King Edom but were refused passage. He vowed he would attack them if they used the road. They even offered to pay for any water their cattle drank. Still King Edom refused them passage and advanced against them with a large and heavily armed force. After making a detour and coming to the Transjordan area between River Arnon and River Jabbok., they directed the same request to Sihon the Amorite King, and for the second time on the same road they were denied passage and King Sihon engaged them in battle at Jahaz. And they won that battle by the edge of the sword, a close call. As a result, they gained control in that land and to the north of it. The tribes of Manasseh (eastern half), Gad, and Reuben subsequently settled those territories.\n\nMany of the wars of the Israelites against the kingdoms of the trans-Jordanian highlands during the period of the Kingdom of Israel (and its sister-kingdom, the Kingdom of Judah) were probably fought, at least in part, over control of the Highway.\n\n"}
{"id": "28562226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28562226", "title": "Leipziger Weltchronik", "text": "Leipziger Weltchronik\n\nThe Leipziger Weltchronik (German for \"World chronicle of Leipzig\") is preserved in five papyrus fragments in the Papyrus Collection in Leipzig. The fragments were bought in 1913, but were only published in 2010. The chronicle dates to the first half of the 2nd century AD. These are the earliest known fragments of a world chronicle. On the badly preserved fragments events on the founding of Thebes (Boeotia) and a list of Babylonian and Egyptian kings are preserved. Hesiod is named. The chronicle is perhaps Christian. \n\nThe following events are preserved in the four remaining columns:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "130578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130578", "title": "Lima, Oklahoma", "text": "Lima, Oklahoma\n\nLima is a town in Seminole County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 53 at the 2010 census, a 28.4 percent decline from 74 at the 2000 census.\n\nLima is located at (35.173362, -96.598337). According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , all of it land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 74 people, 30 households, and 18 families residing in the town. The population density was 159.9 people per square mile (62.1/km²). There were 39 housing units at an average density of 84.3 per square mile (32.7/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 43.24% White, 36.49% African American, 5.41% Native American, and 14.86% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2.70% of the population.\n\nThere were 30 households out of which 13.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 40.0% were married couples living together, 16.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 36.7% were non-families. 33.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.47 and the average family size was 3.05.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 28.4% under the age of 18, 5.4% from 18 to 24, 18.9% from 25 to 44, 33.8% from 45 to 64, and 13.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 44 years. For every 100 females, there were 117.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 89.3 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $18,750, and the median income for a family was $15,625. Males had a median income of $23,125 versus $14,375 for females. The per capita income for the town was $6,473. There were 47.4% of families and 59.7% of the population living below the poverty line, including 70.4% of under eighteens and 40.0% of those over 64.\n\nNew Lima High School has won four Oklahoma High School Boys Class B Championships in 1967, 1968, 1977, and 1978.<br> Center Eddie Louie was named the Oklahoma state Boys' Basketball Player of the Year for 1978. Jim Knapp, New Lima long time coach, won the state’s Boys' Basketball Coach of the Year in 1978; he also won the title in 1973. Louie also led the team to the state’s Tournament of Champions Champion earlier that season. \"The Oklahoman\" named the 1978 New Lima Boys Basketball team as the #24 \"best in sports,\" noting, \"1978 New Lima boys basketball: 31-0. Tiny Class B state champs also won Tournament of Champions, beating Tulsa Washington. Senior stars Eddie Louie and George Allen finished careers 113-10 with two state crowns.\"\n\nThey also won the 1978 Class B Baseball State Championship over Eakly, 3-0.\n\nThe New Lima girls continued the school's winning basketball tradition: winning the 1984 and 1985 Girls Class B Championships.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "665585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665585", "title": "List of speeches", "text": "List of speeches\n\nThis list of speeches includes those that have gained notability in English or in English translation. The earliest listings may be approximate dates.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15456749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15456749", "title": "Mariano Armellini", "text": "Mariano Armellini\n\nMariano Armellini (7 February 1852 – 24 February 1896) was an Italian archaeologist and historian. Born in Rome, he was one of the founders of the Pontifical Academy of Martyrs.\n\nHe is the author of \"Gli antichi cimiteri cristiani di Roma e d'Italia\" (\"The Ancient Christian Cemeteries of Rome and Italy\") and \"Le catacombe romane\" (\"The Roman Catacombs\"), but became famous chiefly for \"Le chiese di Roma dal secolo IV al XIX\" (\"The Churches of Rome from the 4th to the 19th Centuries\"), a major work in which he recorded many of the city's churches, including those no longer extant.\n\n"}
{"id": "163288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163288", "title": "Milan Šufflay", "text": "Milan Šufflay\n\nMilan pl. Šufflay (8 November 1879 – 19 February 1931) was a Croatian historian and politician. He was one of the founders of Albanology and the author of the first Croatian science fiction novel. As a Croatian nationalist, he was persecuted in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and his murder subsequently caused an internationally publicized affair.\n\nŠufflay was born into a lower noble family (hence \"pl.\", \"plemeniti\", \"noble\", equivalent of \"von\") in Lepoglava, in the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia to Augustin Šufflay (1847–190?), a teacher, andFranciska Welle von Vorstern (1847–1910), a German Hungarian from Osijek. The family coat of arms was included in \"Der Adel von Kroatien und Slavonien\" (1899) as \"Sufflay de Otrussevcz\". Their original surname was Sufflei or Schufflei, and their estate was Otruševec.\n\nHe attended a comprehensive high school in Zagreb and studied history at the University of Zagreb. He received a Ph.D. in 1901 from the same university with thesis \"Croatia and the Last Endeavor of the Eastern Empire Under the Scepter of Three Komnenos (1075-1180)\". He was a brilliant student both in high school and at the university. Already during his studies, he spoke French, German, Italian, English, all the Slavic languages, as well as Latin, old Greek, and middle Greek. Later in life, he learned modern Greek, Albanian, Hebrew, and Sanskrit. Tadija Smičiklas considered Šufflay his most gifted student and took him as his assistant when editing \"Codex Diplomaticus\" of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\nŠufflay became a historian of the Balkans and was convinced that the history of the Croats can be properly researched only from that perspective. His conviction clashed with the prevailing opinion of Croatian historians that the Croats were representatives of the West, as opposed to the Balkans. Ignoring the proposal of the university senate, Ban Pavao Rauch appointed him a university professor in Zagreb in 1908. However, when Nikola Tomašić, his distant cousin and enemy, became a Ban in 1910, Šufflay had to leave the university. In early 1915 he was drafted, but university professors were exempt from military duty. He was soon released because of illness, and he wrote his most important works in that period.\n\nIn the new state, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, he was arrested for high treason and charged with spying for a foreign power together with Ivo Pilar, another Croatian historian. Their defense lawyer was Ante Pavelić, at the time a leader of the Party of Rights and an associate of Šufflay. Šufflay was sentenced to three years and six months in prison. The reaction to the sentence was stronger abroad than in Croatia, as scientific colleagues from numerous countries tried to obtain his release but without success. He did his time in the Sremska Mitrovica prison. After serving over half of his sentence, he was released from prison in 1922 and he returned to his scientific work.\n\nIn 1924, Šufflay wrote his first science fiction novel, \"On the Pacific in 2255\", which is considered the first Croatian science fiction novel.\n\nIn 1924, Šufflay became a member of the leadership of the Pure Party of Rights, a rightwing Croatian political party inspired by the work of Josip Frank, a fervent nationalist. The party had reportedly not managed to win more than a few seats in the 300-strong legislative.\n\nIn 1928, when Stjepan Radić was assassinated in the Yugoslav parliament, a year before king Alexander I would establish his dictatorship, Šufflay wrote \"Hrvatska u svijetlu svjetske historije i politike\" (Croatia in the Light of World History and Politics). He wrote that the Croatian people was suffering under the Yugoslav dictatorship and that it had to free itself. He claimed that the border between Western and the Eastern Civilisations lay on the Drina river, the \"destined borderline on the Drina river on which the mighty Roman Empire snapped into two... a border both spiritual and cultural\".\n\nŠufflay's idea about the delineation on the Drina river would later influence Greater Croatian irredentism.\n\nIn 1928, he was appointed a professor at the University of Budapest, but he could not take the job because he did not hold a passport.\n\nOn the request of the Albanian government and the Academy of Sciences in Vienna, he continued the work of Jireček and Thalloczy, editing the 3rd book of \"Codex albanicus\", an archival collection. In 1931, he finally obtained a passport and travelled to Albania to sign a contract to work on \"Acta Albaniae\".\n\nMembers of the regime organisation, Young Yugoslavia, under royal protection, ambushed him at his doorstep in Zagreb and broke his skull with a hammer, killing him. Then, they broke into his apartment and took the manuscript of the third book of \"Codex albanicus\". There was never any investigation about the criminals. The authorities denied any knowledge of the assailants and banned activities related to Šufflay's funeral.\n\nAlbert Einstein and Heinrich Mann sent a letter to the International League for Human Rights in Paris appealing to the global cultural public to protest against the murder of Milan Šufflay appealing for protection of Croat scientists from the Yugoslavian regime.\nThe appeal was addressed to the Paris-based \"Ligue des droits de l'homme\" (Human Rights League) and made the front page of the \"New York Times\" on 6 May 1931.\nIt accused the king of complicity in the crime.\n\nIn June 1940, in the Banovina of Croatia, a trial was organized for Šufflay's murder.\n\nThe murderers were the police agents Belošević and Zwerger, who fled to Belgrade. All later attempts of the Banovina of Croatia to have them extradited were fruitless.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6244699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6244699", "title": "National Museum of Singapore", "text": "National Museum of Singapore\n\nThe National Museum of Singapore is the oldest museum in Singapore. Its history dates back to 1849, when it was started as a section of a library at Singapore Institution and called the Raffles Library and Museum. After several relocations, in 1887 it moved to its permanent site at Stamford Road in the Museum Planning Area.\n\nThe museum focuses on exhibits related to the history of Singapore. It is one of four national museums in the country, the other three being the two Asian Civilisations Museums at Empress Place Building and Old Tao Nan School, and the Singapore Art Museum. It was named the \"National Museum of Singapore\" in 1965; between 1993 and March 2006, it was known as the Singapore History Museum. \n\nThe National Museum of Singapore underwent a three-and-a-half-year restoration and reopened on 2 December 2006, with the official reopening by former President of Singapore S. R. Nathan and the Minister for Information, Communications and the Arts taking place on 7 December 2006. The Singapore History Gallery opened on 8 December of the same year.\n\nThe museum was established in 1849 by the then Singapore Institution Committee. It was called the \"Raffles Library and Museum\" and exhibited items of historical and archaeological value from Singapore and elsewhere in Asia. The museum was part of an establishment of a public repository of knowledge of Malayan in a school, museum and library. This objective can be traced to an 1823 meeting called by Sir Stamford Raffles to discuss a revival of the region's cultural heritage. The museum occupied a section of the library of the Singapore Institution, later became the Raffles Institution. In 1874, the museum moved to the Town Hall (now known as the Victoria Theatre and Concert Hall). However, due to the growing collection in the museum, it moved back to the Singapore Institution in 1876 situated at the new wing of the institution.\n\nThe Raffles Library and Museum later moved to Stamford Road in a new building that was commissioned by the colonial government in 1882. The museum was officially opened on 12 October 1887 which also marked the Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria. The library was referred to by the locals in Malay as \"Rumah Kitab\" (\"house of books\") or \"Tempat Kitab\" (\"place of books\"). The museum was designed by Sir Henry McCallum but a scaled down version was used as the Colonial Office rejected the initial proposal, Major J.F. McNair co-designed the later version.\n\nIn its early years, the museum was well known for its zoological and ethnographic collections of Southeast Asia especially Malaya and British Borneo before the World War II. The museum was a centre of research and knowledge, directors and curators were by and specialists of good research accomplishments including zoologists Richard Hanitsch, John Moulton, Cecil Boden Kloss, Frederick Chasen and anthropologists HD Collings and Gibson-Hill who were also interested in ornithology, Malay history, ethnography and photography. The museum was the seat of the editorial office of the Journal of the Malayan Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, it was visited by scholars who were en route to their trips to Malaya and Indonesia. The collections included a selection of northern Nias objects from the field trips of Elio Modigliani, as well as the basketwork gifted by Dr William Abbott, who collected them during the 1900s for the United States National Museum, later the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nExtensions were carried out in 1906, 1916, 1926 and 1934 due to the inadequate space for the growing number of times ti. L and books. During the Japanese Occupation, the place was left intact by the Japanese occupying army due to the reputation of its Raffles collection and research integrity. The museum split from the library, with the latter forming the National Library adjacent to the museum building in 1960 which was demolished and relocated to Victoria Street in 2005, the former was housed in the Stamford Road building.\n\nAfter Singapore's independence in 1965, the museum focused its collection to nation-building and the history of Singapore and was renamed the National Museum. Its zoological collections was moved to the biology department of the National University of Singapore and to some museums such as in Kolkata in India and Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia. This all happened in 1969. Its most iconic artefact was the skeleton of a blue whale found in Port Dickson in 1893 and was displayed from 1903 to 1969. The museum then featured exhibits on history, ethnology and arts of Singapore and the region.\n\nHawpar Group donated a jade collection in January 1980. Restoration works of the building were carried out in 1985 which included a repainting of the building and restoring some of the distinctive features. After restoration, the museum was gazetted as a national monument on 14 February 1992. The museum came under the management of the National Heritage Board in 1993 and was renamed the Singapore History Museum becoming the flagship of the four national museums in Singapore. The building was closed in April 2003 for extension and restoration works and the museum was temporarily relocated to Riverside Point where an exhibition known as \"Rivertales\" was displayed.\n\nThe National Museum building was closed for a period of three and a half years and museum operation was temporarily located at Riverside Point. The building underwent a S$132.6 million revamp with a new annexe block behind the building on the site, which was formerly the demolished Drama Centre. Its new wing is partially built on ground hollowed out from nearby Fort Canning Hill, and a 30-metre deep diaphragm wall was built to prevent subsidence. A foundation stone ceremony was held on 25 November 2004 and it was then the museum publicly announced the name change. The structural top out ceremony was on 28 November 2005 and the new building is twice as large as the old one. The temporary museum at Riverside closed its operation on 6 March 2006 and the new museum reopened on 7 December 2006.\n\nPoor restoration works in the 1980s cost some of its architecture features to be hidden or badly damaged. The fish scaled tiles were all taken down and cleaned, all 3,000 tiles were individually numbered to allow it to be replaced in the correct sequence. Every row of tiles was shaped differently, so as to match the curves of the dome. Badly restored tiles were removed and new replaced tiles were made in the original zinc material used in the old 19th century tiles made in Manchester, England. The tiles had deteriorated badly due to the effects of acid rain. A titanium-zinc-based coating was used to protect the new tiles, to prevent further oxidation and erosion.\n\nOn the building's dome, there are stained glass panels, these panels were all taken down, inspected and cleaned. These panels had deteriorated due to its age and the effects of gravity on the lead works. Each panel had to be transported in a special mould and sent to a stained glass restorer who used 18th century reinforcement techniques to restore the lead and glass works; the process took four months to complete. Modern staircases have been installed in the building to contrast the old and new. A spiral staircase which leads to the roof of the old museum building was restored. The windows and doors were conserved and the original type and size of timber and 18th century carpentry techniques were used to restore the timber windows and doors. Some of the original timber works used huge timber sections made of kapur wood. These sections required about four months to source, supply, fumigate, treat, cut and deliver to the site.\n\nThe balustrades on the second floor of the old rotunda were patterned after those in London's Royal Albert Hall. The details of the balustrades were hidden after years of paint. The old paint was removed and a special clear coat was applied to prevent rusting of the wrought iron and to allow the details to be visible. Plaster works were carried out on the plaster motifs, cornices, balustrades, capitals and carving of the old building were either deteriorated or destroyed during the earlier renovations. Skilled artisans from India were brought in to recreate the plaster works which include restoring many of the windows, doors and cornices.\n\nIts largest work done was the coat of arms of Queen Victoria and the entire northern facade which had been destroyed. An ornate rose timber ceiling rose in the original galleries were hidden by false ceilings constructed for air-conditioning in the 1980s. The rear of the building had few windows and replicas had to be made for windows facing Fort Canning and timber wood was imported from Indonesia. A 22-metre long and 11-metre high glass connector replaced a hard ceiling for visitors to view the museum's dome from the museum itself, whereas previously, one had to view the entire dome across Stamford Road.\n\nThe museum will have a permanent 2,800 m² gallery space at the new glass clad building within a glass rotunda known as the Singapore History Gallery. It will feature the history of Singapore from the 14th century in a story-telling approach. Images and film can be projected on its 15-metre high cylindrical walls. There will be a narration of the history and display of artistic expressions of the history.\n\nA ramp spiral in the new building leads down to an exhibition space holding the nation's treasures which includes the Singapore Stone and 14th century gold ornaments unearthed from nearby Fort Canning Hill in 1928. There will be a 250-seat auditorium known as \"The Mesh\" for talks, lectures and workshops for the young and old at the Fort Canning entrance. It will have retail facilities as well as a café and a restaurant at the Stamford Road block of the building. Elevators and escalators have been constructed at the museum with access for the disabled. An area will feature classrooms and outreach programmes. A vehicular entrance can be accessed by Fort Canning Road at the new building. In the basement, there is a column-free 1,200 m² exhibition gallery for temporary exhibits. It has insulated walls without windows and the space is climatically controlled to protect the exhibits from light and heat or humidity changes.\n\nA resource centre will be housed in the building which will contain old books, photographs, negatives and stamps for public viewing. It had been fitted with Wireless@SG items.\n\nThe museum used to house a vast collection of zoological items, but were transferred to the National University of Singapore (NUS) and other museums in the Commonwealth. It currently has eleven precious artefacts, namely the Singapore Stone, the Gold Ornaments of the Sacred Hill from East Java, Dagguerreotype of Singapore Town which was one of the earliest photographs of Singapore, the will of Munshi Abdullah, the portrait of Frank Athelstane Swettenham, the hearse of Tan Jiak Kim, a Peranakan coffin cover, the mace of the City of Singapore commemorating King George VI's raising of the island's status to a city in 1951, the \"Xin Sai Le\" puppet stage, William Farquhar's drawings of flora and fauna and the portrait of Shenton Thomas, who was the former governor of Singapore. Rocks from the nearby Fort Canning Hill were used to create two sculptures commissioned from Cultural Medallion-winner Han Sai Por.\n\nUnlike countries such as South Korea or Japan, there is no central authority which maintains and awards a national treasure status for these artifacts. The National Museum of Singapore, being the custodian of most of these \"national treasures\" and the National Heritage Board being the coordinating authority of history in Singapore have at different times, came up with different lists.\n\nNational Museum was designed in Neo-Palladian and Renaissance style and consists of two rectangular parallel blocks, with a dome at the front of the building. Its architects were Henry McCallum who designed the original version and J.F. McNair who designed the scaled down version of the building. The building has two rotundas, a new glass-clad rotunda at the rear area of the building. Its glass rotunda is a cylindrical shaped building which is made up of two drums, with the outer one made of glass which sheaths an inner one made of wire mesh. Black out curtains has the same length of the inner drum with images projected on sixteen video projectors in the day. The curtains are drawn after sunset, and projection can be beamed out through the glass to get a view of the city. Coats of arms are found on the building's front.\n\nThe redeveloped building was designed by local W Architects with the glass-clad rotunda designed inspired by Chinese American I.M. Pei. The chief design consultant was Mok Wei Wei from W Architects, who was appointed in June 2004 and modified the designs of glass rotunda and the atrium between the two buildings. The new glass clad building was designed such that the old building would still be the centrepiece of the museum. A six-metre gap exists between the back of the main museum building and its new annexe as conservation guidelines do not allow old and new buildings to be directly connected. In the gallery theatre, bricks are designed in a herringbone brick pattern, which helps to control the echoes and acoustics in the space. Initially, the designers planned to use bricks from the old National Library building, but the cost was too expensive. Black concrete flooring was used for the new block instead of grey granite flooring as initially planned.\n\nGoh Seng Choo Gallery\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4211782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4211782", "title": "Ontario Classical Association", "text": "Ontario Classical Association\n\nThe Ontario Classical Association was founded in 1944 with Eric A. Havelock as its first president. The association promotes the study of classics through lobbying, scholarships, and colloquia for members. Its membership consists primarily of university and secondary school classics teachers, as well as students and amateurs. \n\n"}
{"id": "32242149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32242149", "title": "Patricia Carson", "text": "Patricia Carson\n\nBaroness Patricia Mary Carson (5 March 1929, Oreston - 13 October 2014, Ghent) was an Anglo-Belgian historian and author.\n\nPatricia Carson was the daughter of Archibald-Stewart Carson and Hilde-Dorothy (née Clewlow) Carson. In 1954, she married Raoul Van Caenegem, historian and professor at the University of Ghent; the couple had two sons and a daughter. \n\nCarson obtained a Bachelor in history at the University of London, followed by a Master of arts (history) with a thesis on London in the 18th century. After her wedding, she lived permanently in Ghent and made her speciality of studying the relations between Great Britain and the Low Countries throughout the centuries. Her most successful book, many times reprinted, was \"The Fair Face of Flanders\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52443680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52443680", "title": "Premio Friuli Storia", "text": "Premio Friuli Storia\n\nThe Premio Friuli Storia (Friuli Book Prize for Contemporary History) is an annual Italian literary award established in 2013 to promote standards of excellence in the writing of history books for a general readership. It is the only national Italian literary prize for non-fiction which entrusts the selection of the winner to a committee of non-specialist readers.\n\nA scientific committee composed of academic historians produces a shortlist of books each year at the end of May. For the period 2017-2019, the committee is chaired by Tommaso Piffer and composed of Elena Aga Rossi, Roberto Chiarini, Ernesto Galli della Loggia, Charles S. Maier, Paolo Pezzino, Silvio Pons and Andrea Zannini. The winner is selected by a group of 300 readers and the final result is announced in September in Udine.\n\n"}
{"id": "16394058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16394058", "title": "Renier of St Laurent", "text": "Renier of St Laurent\n\nRenier of St Laurent (died 1188) was a twelfth-century Benedictine monk of St Laurent Abbey, Liège. He is known as a writer of theological and exegetical works, controversial and historical works, and numerous biographical and hagiographical works. Works by him are in \"Patrologia Latina\" and \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\".\n\nThe \"Triumphale Bulonicum\" is a chronicle and commemorates the siege of Bouillon Castle by Albero, prince-bishop of Liège, 17 August to 22 September 1141. It is based on eye-witness accounts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33726369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33726369", "title": "Richard Bryn Williams", "text": "Richard Bryn Williams\n\nRichard Bryn Williams, or Bryn Williams (1902–1981), was a Welsh writer, poet, playwright and historian.\n\nWilliams was born in Blaenau Ffestiniog, Gwynedd, Wales. When he was seven years old, his family moved to Trelew, Chubut, Patagonia, Argentina. He returned to Wales in 1923 and studied at the University College of North Wales (now Bangor University). He became an expert on Patagonian history and was a major contributor to the province's literature.\n\nHe was a supporter of the National Eisteddfod, as well as competing in the cultural festival itself, and won the chair both in 1964 and 1968, and from 1975 to 1978 he was archdruid, using the bardic name \"Bryn\". Almost all of his numerous works reflect the life of Patagonia and its history.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55394366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55394366", "title": "Riwat Site 55", "text": "Riwat Site 55\n\nRiwat Site 55 is an Upper Palaeolithic archaeological site in the Soan Valley, near the village of Rawat in Punjab, Pakistan. It is approximately 45,000 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "42662081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42662081", "title": "Roberto Cassá", "text": "Roberto Cassá\n\nRoberto Cassá Bernaldo de Quirós is a Dominican historian, writer, and educator. He is the president of the Dominican Academy of History and member of the Academy of Sciences of the Dominican Republic and the Association of Historians of Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nCassá is Director of the General Archive of the Nation.\n\nRoberto Cassá was born on 12 September 1948, the son of the Dominican lawyer José Cassá Logroño (Santo Domingo, 1916–) and his wife María Bernaldo de Quirós Villanueva (Madrid, 1923–Santo Domingo, 2013), a Spaniard who migrated with her family in 1940 after the end of the Spanish Civil War to the Dominican Republic and whose parents and siblings, dissatisfied with Trujillo’s regime, moved to Mexico in 1947. He studied at the Colegio Santa Teresita; and graduated from the high school at the Lycée Objío Manuel Rodríguez.\n\nIn the year 1974 obtained his BA in History at the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo; in 1988 obtained a master's degree in Latin American studies History and a PhD in Sociology, both at the Autonomous University of Mexico. He was Professor of Social History and Social History Dominican Universal Tegnologico Institute in Santo Domingo from 1975 to 1985.\n\nFrom 1987 he was employed as a professor of the Center for Economic Research and Teaching in Mexico, where he taught Economic History. He was also a professor of history at the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences from 1986 to 1989. Was also a professor at the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo for over two decades.\n\nHe has participated in numerous projects of historical, sociological and economic research sponsored by private, state and academic institutions, he is also president of the Academy of the Dominican History and member of the Academy of Sciences of the Dominican Republic and the Association of Historians of American America and the Caribbean.\n"}
{"id": "739974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739974", "title": "Rostow's stages of growth", "text": "Rostow's stages of growth\n\nRostow's Stages of Economic Growth model is one of the major historical models of economic growth. It was published by American economist Walt Whitman Rostow in 1960. The model postulates that economic growth occurs in five basic stages, of varying length:\n\n\nRostow's model is one of the more structuralist models of economic growth, particularly in comparison with the \"backwardness\" model developed by Alexander Gerschenkron, although the two models are not mutually exclusive.\n\nRostow argued that economic take-off must initially be led by a few individual economic sectors. This belief echoes David Ricardo's comparative advantage thesis and criticizes Marxist revolutionaries' push for economic self-reliance in that it pushes for the \"initial\" development of only one or two sectors over the development of all sectors equally. This became one of the important concepts in the theory of modernization in social evolutionism.\n\nBelow is an outline of Rostow's Five Stages of Growth:\n\nRostow claimed that these stages of growth were designed to tackle a number of issues, some of which he identified himself, writing: \"Under what impulses did traditional, agricultural societies begin the process of their modernization? When and how did regular growth become a built-in feature of each society? What forces drove the process of sustained growth along and determined its contours? What common social and political features of the growth process may be discerned at each stage? What forces have determined relations between the more developed and less developed areas; and what relation if any did the relative sequence of growth bear to outbreak of war? And finally where is compound interest taking us? Is it taking us to communism; or to the affluent suburbs, nicely rounded out with social overhead capital; to destruction; to the moon; or where?\"Rostow asserts that countries go through each of these stages fairly linearly, and set out a number of conditions that were likely to occur in investment, consumption, and social trends at each state. Not all of the conditions were certain to occur at each stage, however, and the stages and transition periods may occur at varying lengths from country to country, and even from region to region.\n\nRostow's model is a part of the liberal school of economics, laying emphasis on the efficacy of modern concepts of free trade and the ideas of Adam Smith. It disagrees with Friedrich List's argument which states that economies which rely on exports of raw materials may get \"locked in\", and would not be able to diversify, regarding this Rostow's model states that economies may need to depend on raw material exports to finance the development of industrial sector which has not yet of achieved superior level of competitiveness in the early stages of take-off. Rostow's model does not disagree with John Maynard Keynes regarding the importance of government control over domestic development which is not generally accepted by some ardent free trade advocates. The basic assumption given by Rostow is that countries want to modernize and grow and that society will agree to the materialistic norms of economic growth.\n\nAn economy in this stage has an unlimited production function which barely attains the minimum level of potential output. This does not entirely mean that the economy's production level is static. The output level can still be increased, as there was often a surplus of uncultivated land which can be used for increasing agricultural production. Modern science and technology has yet to be introduced. As a result, these pre-Newtonian societies, unaware of the possibilities to manipulate the external world, rely heavily on manual labor and self-sufficiency to survive. States and individuals utilize irrigation systems in many instances, but most farming is still purely for subsistence. There have been technological innovations, but only on ad hoc basis. All of that this can result in increases in output, but never beyond an upper limit which cannot be crossed. Trade is predominantly regional and local, largely done through barter, and the monetary system is not well developed. Investment's share never exceeds 5% of total economic production.\n\nWars, famines and epidemics like plague cause initially expanding populations to halt or shrink, limiting the single greatest factor of production: human manual labor. Volume fluctuations in trade due to political instability are frequent; historically, trading was subject to great risk and transport of goods and raw materials was expensive, difficult, slow and unreliable. The manufacturing sector and other industries have a tendency to grow but are limited by inadequate scientific knowledge and a \"backward\" or highly traditionalist frame of mind which contributes to low labour productivity. In this stage, some regions are entirely self-sufficient.\n\nIn settled agricultural societies before the Industrial Revolution, a hierarchical social structure relied on near-absolute reverence for tradition, and an insistence on obedience and submission. This resulted in concentration of political power in the hands of landowners in most cases; everywhere, family and lineage, and marriage ties, constituted the primary social organization, along with religious customs, and the state only rarely interacted with local populations and in limited spheres of life. This social structure was generally feudalistic in nature. Under modern conditions, these characteristics have been modified by outside influences, but the least developed regions and societies fit this description quite accurately..\n\nIn the second stage of economic growth the economy undergoes a process of change for building up of conditions for growth and take off. Rostow said that these changes in society and the economy had to be of fundamental nature in the socio-political structure and production techniques. This pattern was followed in Europe, parts of Asia, the Middle East and Africa. There is also a second or third pattern in which he said that there was no need for change in socio-political structure because these economies were not deeply caught up in older, traditional social and political structures. The only changes required were in economic and technical dimensions. The nations which followed this pattern were in North America and Oceania (New Zealand and Australia).\n\nThere are three important dimensions to this transition: firstly, the shift from an agrarian to an industrial or manufacturing society begins, albeit slowly. Secondly, trade and other commercial activities of the nation broaden the market's reach not only to neighboring areas but also to far-flung regions, creating international markets. Lastly, the surplus attained should not be wasted on the conspicuous consumption of the land owners or the state, but should be spent on the development of industries, infrastructure and thereby prepare for self-sustained growth of the economy later on. Furthermore, agriculture becomes commercialized and mechanized via technological advancement; shifts increasingly towards cash or export-oriented crops; and there is a growth of agricultural entrepreneurship.\n\nThe strategic factor is that investment level should be above 5% of the national income. This rise in investment rate depends on many sectors of the economy. According to Rostow capital formation depends on the productivity of agriculture and the creation of social overhead capital. Agriculture plays a very important role in this transition process as the surplus quantity of the produce is to be utilized to support an increasing urban population of workers and also becomes a major exporting sector, earning foreign exchange for continued development and capital formation. Increases in agricultural productivity also lead to expansion of the domestic markets for manufactured goods and processed commodities, which adds to the growth of investment in the industrial sector.\n\nSocial overhead capital creation can only be undertaken by government, in Rostow's view. Government plays the driving role in development of social overhead capital as it is rarely profitable, it has a long gestation period, and the pay-offs accrue to all economic sectors, not primarily to the investing entity; thus the private sector is not interested in playing a major role in its development.\n\nAll these changes effectively prepare the way for \"take-off\" only if there is basic change in attitude of society towards risk taking, changes in working environment, and openness to change in social and political organisations and structures.\nAccording to Rostow, the preconditions to take-off begins from an external intervention by more developed and advanced societies, which \"set in motion ideas and sentiments which initiated the process by which a modern alternative to the traditional society was constructed out of the old culture.\" The pre-conditions of take-off closely track the historic stages of the (initially) British Industrial Revolution. \n\nReferring to the graph of savings and investment, notably, there is a steep increase in the rate of savings and investment from the stage of \"Pre Take-off\" till \"Drive to Maturity:\" then, following that stage, the growing rate of savings and investment moderates. This initial and accelerating steep increase in savings and investment is a pre-condition for the economy to reach the \"Take-off\" stage and far beyond.\n\nThis stage is characterized by dynamic economic growth. As Rostow suggests, all is premised on a sharp stimulus (or multiple stimuli) that is/are any or all of economic, political and technological change. The main feature of this stage is rapid, self-sustained growth. Take-off occurs when sector led growth becomes common and society is driven more by economic processes than traditions. At this point, the norms of economic growth are well established and growth becomes a nation's \"second nature\" and a shared goal. In discussing the take-off, Rostow is noted to have adopted the term \"transition\", which describes the process of a traditional economy becoming a modern one. After take-off, a country will generally take as long as fifty to one hundred years to reach the mature stage according to the model, as occurred in countries that participated in the Industrial Revolution and were established as such when Rostow developed his ideas in the 1950s.\n\nPer Rostow there are three main requirements for take-off:1. The rate of productive investment should rise from approximately 5% to over 10% of national income or net national product2. The development of one or more substantial manufacturing sectors, with a high rate of growth;3. The existence or quick emergence of a political, social and institutional framework which exploits the impulses to expansion in the modern sector and the potential external economy effects of the take-off. The third requirement implies that the needed capital must be mobilized from domestic resources and steered into the economy, rather than into domestic or state consumption.Industrialization becomes a crucial phenomenon as it helps to prepare the basic structure for structural changes on a massive scale. Rostow says that this transition does not follow a set trend as there are a variety of different motivations or stimulus which began this growth process.\nTake off requires a large and sufficient amount of loanable funds for expansion of the industrial sector which generally come from two sources which are:\n\nThe take-off also needs a group of entrepreneurs in the society who pursue innovation and accelerate the rate of growth in the economy. For such an entrepreneurial class to develop, firstly, an ethos of \"delayed gratification\", a preference for capital accumulation over expenditure, and high tolerance of risk must be present. Secondly, entrepreneurial groups typically develop because they can not secure prestige and power in their society via marriage, via participating in well-established industries, or through government or military service (among other routes to prominence) because of some disqualifying social or legal attribute; and lastly, their rapidly changing society must tolerate unorthodox paths to economic and political power.\n\nThe ability of a country to make it through this stage depends on the following major factors:\n\nAn example of a country in the Take-off stage of development is Equatorial Guinea. It has the largest increases in GDP growth since 1980 and the rate of productive investment has risen from 5% to over 10% of income or product.\n\nIn the table note that Take-off periods of different countries are the same as the industrial revolution in those countries.\n\nAfter take-off, there follows a long interval of sustained growth known as the stage of drive to maturity. Rostow defines it \"as the period when a society has effectively applied the range of modern technology to the bulk of its resources.\" Now regularly growing economy drives to extend modern technology over the whole front of its economic activity. Some 10-20% of the national income is steadily invested, permitting output regularly to outstrip the increase in population. The makeup of the economy changes unceasingly as technique improves, new industries accelerate, older industries level off. The economy finds its place in the international economy: goods formerly imported are produced at home; new import requirements develop, and new export commodities to match them. The leading sectors in an economy will be determined by the nature of resource endowments and not only by technology.\nOn comparing the dates of take-off and drive to maturity, these countries reached the stage of maturity in approximately 60 years.\n\nThe structural changes in the society during this stage are in three ways:\nDuring this stage a country has to decide whether the industrial power and technology it has generated is to be used for the welfare of its people or to gain supremacy over others, or the world \"in toto\".\n\nA prime example of a country in the Drive to Maturity stage is South Africa. It is developing a world-class infrastructure- including a modern transport network, widely available energy, and sophisticated telecommunications facilities. Additionally, the commercial farm sector shed 140,000 jobs, a decline of roughly 20%, in the eleven-year period from 1988 to 1998.\n\nThis diversity leads to reduction in poverty rate and increasing standards of living, as the society no longer needs to sacrifice its comfort in order to build up certain sectors.\n\nThe age of high mass consumption refers to the period of contemporary comfort afforded many western nations, wherein consumers concentrate on durable goods, and hardly remember the subsistence concerns of previous stages. Rostow uses the Buddenbrooks dynamics metaphor to describe this change in attitude. In Thomas Mann's 1901 novel, \"Buddenbrooks\", a family is chronicled for three generations. The first generation is interested in economic development, the second in its position in society. The third, already having money and prestige, concerns itself with the arts and music, worrying little about those previous, earthly concerns. So too, in the age of high mass consumption, a society is able to choose between concentrating on military and security issues, on equality and welfare issues, or on developing great luxuries for its upper class. Each country in this position chooses its own balance between these three goals. There is a desire to develop an egalitarian society and measures are taken to reach this goal. According to Rostow, a country tries to determine its uniqueness and factors affecting it are its political, geographical and cultural structure and also values present in its society.\n\nHistorically, the United States is said to have reached this stage first, followed by other western European nations, and then Japan in the 1950s.\n\nThis step is more of a theoretical speculation by Rostow rather than an analytical step in the process by Rostow. Individuals begin having larger families and do not value income as a pre-requisite for more vacation days. Consumer products become more durable and more diverse. New Americans will behave in a way where the high economic security and level mass consumption is considered normal. Rostow does make the point that it is possible with the large baby boom it could either cause economic issues or dictate an even larger diffusion of consumer goods. With increasing urban and suburban population there will be undoubtedly an increase in consumer goods and services as well.\n\n\nRostow's thesis is biased towards a western model of modernization, but at the time of Rostow the world's only mature economies were in the west, and no controlled economies were in the \"era of high mass consumption.\" The model de-emphasizes differences between sectors in capitalistic vs. communistic societies, but seems to innately recognize that modernization can be achieved in different ways in different types of economies.\n\nAnother assumption that Rostow took is of trying to fit economic progress into a linear system. This assumption is questioned due to empirical evidence of many countries making 'false starts' then reaching a degree of progress and change and then slipping back. E.g.: In the case of contemporary Russia slipping back from high mass consumption to a country in transition.\n\nAnother criticism of Rostow's work is that it consideres large countries with a large population (Japan), with natural resources available at just the right time in its history (Coal in Northern European countries), or with a large land mass (Argentina). He has little to say and indeed offers little hope for small countries, such as Rwanda, which do not have such advantages. Neo-liberal economic theory to Rostow, and many others, does offer hope to much of the world that economic maturity is coming and the age of high mass consumption is nigh.This does leave a potential \"grim meathook future\" for the outliers, which do not have the resources, political will, or external backing to become competitive with already developed economies. (See Dependency theory)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3854242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3854242", "title": "Royal descent", "text": "Royal descent\n\nA royal descent is a genealogical line of descent from a past or present monarch. \n\nBoth geneticists and genealogists have attempted to estimate the percentage of living people with royal descent. From a genetical perspective, the number of unprovable descendants must be virtually unlimited if going back enough generations, according to coalescent theory, as the possibility increases exponentially following every century back in time. In other words, the number of descendants from a monarch increases as a function of the length of time between the monarch's death and the birth of the particular descendant.\n\nAs for descendants of genealogical documented lineages, various estimated figures have been proposed. For instance, Mark Humphrys, a professor of computer science at Dublin City University in Ireland, and genealogy enthusiast, estimate the people of provable genealogical ancestry from medieval monarchs to millions. In any case, the percentage of genealogical descendants are bound to increase with time; not only with every new generation but also due to more extensive combination of individual efforts in genealogy software, including international services available online.\n\nIn genealogy, royal descent is sometimes claimed as a mark of distinction and is seen as a desirable goal. However, due to the incompleteness and varying uncertainty of existing records, the number of people who do claim royal descent tend to be higher than the number who can actually prove it. Historically, pretenders, impostors and those hoping to improve their social status have often claimed royal descent, some with fabricated lineages. The importance of royal descent to some genealogists has been criticized.\n\nLogically, for every royalty in a person's family tree, there are bound to be virtually an unlimited number of undocumented individuals whose births, deaths and lives went completely unrecorded by history. A truism that would naturally apply even to someone who is per se a living royalty.\n\nFrom a genetical, scientifical perspective, it is theoretically true that \"statistically, most of the inhabitants of Western Europe are probably descended from William the Conqueror; they are equally likely to be descended from the man who groomed his charger.\"\n\nThere has been a long tradition for royalty predominantly to intermarry those of their own class. As a result, the ruling houses of Europe have tended to be closely related to one another, and descent from a particular monarch will be found in many dynasties – all present European monarchs, and a great many pretenders, are genealogical descendants of William the Conqueror (1028–1087), for example, and further back in time of Charlemagne (742/747/748–814). Through Charlemagne, some researchers have even speculated on descent from antiquity.\n\nThe practice of restrictive marriages has been noted as increasing over the years until the 20th century: the passage of time strengthened the conviction that royalty only allied with royalty, and from the 16th century marriages between royalty and commoner became rarer and rarer. This is one reason why descent from more recent monarchs is rarer amongst commoners than from monarchs further back.\n\nMembers of untitled families today may be descended from illegitimate children of royalty as primogenitors. Since illegitimate children of royalty were seldom permitted to marry into other royal families because their unacceptable status, these children tended to marry upper-class or middle-class families from their own country.\n\nAt one time, publications on this matter stressed royal connections for only a few families. One example included James Pierpont and others. Also, there are NEHGS articles on United States presidents and \"tycoon\" families and of royal descent that emphasize the discriminating notion, of which the \"most royal candidate theory\" is a notable result. That is, those of royal descent excel (to wit, Roberts' article on eminent descendants of Mrs. Alice Freeman Thompson Parke). Many, too, were at the forefront of social progress, for example, Anne (Marbury) Hutchinson who was banished from the Massachusetts Bay Colony for her progressive beliefs.\n\nAccording to American genealogist Gary Boyd Roberts, an expert on royal descent, most Americans with significant New England Yankee, Mid-Atlantic Quaker, or Southern planter ancestry are descended from medieval kings, especially those of England, Scotland, and France. William Addams Reitwiesner documented many U.S. descendants of Renaissance and modern monarchs. Some Americans may have royal descents through German immigrants who had an illegitimate descent from German royalty.\n\nDue to primogeniture, many colonists of high social status were younger children of English aristocratic families who came to America looking for land because, since given their birth order they could not inherit. Many of these immigrants initially enjoyed high standing where they settled. They could often claim royal descent through a female line or illegitimate descent. Some Americans descend from these 17th-century British colonists who had royal descent. There were at least 650 colonists with traceable royal ancestry, and 387 of them left descendants in America (almost always numbering many thousands, and some as many as one million). These colonists with royal descent settled in various states, but a large majority in Massachusetts or Virginia. Several families which settled in those states, over the two hundred years or more since the colonial land grants, intertwined their branches to the point that almost everyone was somehow related to everyone else. As one writer observed, \"like a tangle of fish hooks\".\n\nOver time, opposing factors have affected the percentage of Americans who have provable royal descent. The passage of the generations has further intermingled the ancestry of the English colonists' descendants, thus increasing the percentage who descend from one of the immigrants with royal ancestry. At the same time, however, waves of post-colonial immigrants from other countries decreased the percentage who have royal descent.\n\nRoyal descent plays an important role in many African societies; authority and property tend to be lineally derived. Among tribes which recognize a single ruler, the hereditary blood line of the rulers (who early European travelers described as kings, queens, princes, etc., using the terminology of European monarchy) is akin to a dynasty. Among groups which have less centralized power structures, dominant clans are still recognized. Oral history would be the primary method of transmitting genealogies, and both nobles and commoners base their status on descent. The royal blood is among the centralized power of all blood groups.\n\nRoyal descent is easier to prove than descent from less historically documented ancestors, since genealogies and public records are typically fuller, better known and preserved in the case of royal descent than in the case of descent from less noted individuals. Typically, it is only since the 20th century that family history has been an interest pursued by people outside the upper classes. Hence, the continuous lines of descent from royal ancestors are typically much better researched and established than those from other ancestors. Until the parish record system introduced the 16th century, and civil registration in the 19th century, family records are fuller for landowners than for ordinary people.\n\nBetween 1903 and 1911, the Melville Henry Massue published volumes titled \"The Blood Royal of Britain\" which attempted to name all the then-living descendants of King Edward III of England (1312–1377). He gave up the exercise after publishing the names of about 40,000 living people, but his own estimate was that the total of those of royal descent who could be proved and named if he completed his work at that time was 100,000 people. His work, however, was heavily dependent upon those whose names were readily ascertainable from works of genealogical reference, such as Peerages and Burke's Landed Gentry.\n\nThe English geneticist Professor Stephen Jones estimates that 25% of the British population is descended from the Plantagenets.\n\nNotably, the phrase \"English descent\" does not, of course, mean purely English descent: As soon as an immigrant family marries into an indigenous family, it acquires all the ancestors of its indigenous parent, and is therefore no less likely to be able to claim a royal descent than a non-immigrant family.\n\n"}
{"id": "10534739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10534739", "title": "Simon Kitson", "text": "Simon Kitson\n\nSimon Kitson (born  1967) is a British historian.\n\nKitson did his undergraduate studies at the University of Ulster and his post-graduate studies at the University of Sussex, under the supervision of Roderick Kedward. His doctoral thesis on the Marseille Police, was examined by Mark Mazower and Clive Emsley.\n\nHe lectured in French Studies at the University of Birmingham before becoming Director of Research at the University of London Institute in Paris (ULIP). Dr Kitson left ULIP in April 2011 and became a senior research fellow at the Institute of Historical Research. Kitson is currently an Associate Professor of French Studies at the University of Auckland, New Zealand. He is a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society and a fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. He is also known for the web resource on Vichy France that he set up and for being the founder of the Facebook group 'Simon Kitson's France: News and Discussion'. He is British Correspondent of the French history journal \"Vingtième Siècle\". and is on the editorial board of the \"Journal of War and Culture Studies\".\n\nKitson has worked extensively on the French police and counter-espionage services. He is also a specialist on Vichy France, on which he published \"Vichy et la Chasse aux Espions Nazis\" with Autrement of Paris in 2005, \"The Hunt for Nazi Spies\" with the University of Chicago Press in 2008. and \"Police and Politics in Marseille, 1936–1945\" with Brill of Amsterdam in 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43129012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43129012", "title": "Social Science History Association", "text": "Social Science History Association\n\nThe Social Science History Association, formed in 1976, brings together scholars from numerous disciplines interested in social history.\n\nSocial Science History is a quarterly, peer-reviewed academic journal. It is the official journal of the Social Science History Association. Its articles bring an analytic, theoretical, and often quantitative approach to historical evidence. The journal's founders intended to \"improve the quality of historical explanation\" with \"theories and methods from the social science disciplines\" and to make generalizations across historical cases. The first issue came out in the fall of 1976. The journal's articles that are most-accessed and cited through JSTOR are about social and political movements and associated narratives.\n\nThe \"Social Science History Association\" was formed in 1976 as an interdisciplinary group with a journal \"Social Science History\" and an annual convention. The goal was to incorporate in historical studies perspectives from all the social sciences, especially political science, sociology and economics. The pioneers shared a commitment to quantification. However, by the 1980s the first blush of quantification had worn off, as critics complained that quantification undervalued the role of contingency, and warned against a naive positivism. Meanwhile quantification became well-established inside economics, in the field of cliometrics, as well as in political science. In history, quantification remained central to demographic studies, but slipped behind in political and social history.\n\n\nSSHA Networks are special interest groups that generate ideas and help coordinate sessions at conferences. These are the network topics for 2013:\n"}
{"id": "18023463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18023463", "title": "Social savings", "text": "Social savings\n\nSocial savings is an growth in accounting techniques in order to evaluate the historical implications of new technology on economic growth. Developed in 1950 by American economic historian and scientist Robert Fogel, explains the methodology works to estimate the cost-savings of the new technology compared with the next best alternative. The first oral presentation was at the 1960 Purdue Cliometrics meeting, and the first published version was in the Journal of economic history in 1962.\n\nA recent survey can be found in \"economic and history: surveys in Cliometrics\", edited by David Greasley and Les Oxley and published by Wiley-Blackwell in 2011. The relevant chapter is entitled \"social savings\" and is by Tim Leunig, London School of Economics. \n\nThe amount of social savings (SS) may be calculated as\nwhere P is the price per unit of the alternative technology, P is the price of the technology being evaluated. T is the quantity processed by the technology being evaluated. This saving in resource costs may be taken to be equal to the gain in real national income. Two noted social savings applications include social savings analysis on the contribution of the railway to the 19th century economic growth and the impact of information technology to the 20th century economic growth.\n\nSocial savings was introduced and applied to the railroads in a seminal book by economic historian and scientist Robert Fogel. The social savings analysis involved using quantitative methods to imagine what the U.S. economy would have been like in 1890 if there were no railroads. In the absence of railroads, freight transportation by rivers and canals would have been only moderately more expensive along most common routes. Fogel concluded that the difference in cost (or \"social savings\") attributable to railroads was negligible - about 2.7% of GNP. This counterfactual history view was vastly different from views proffered by railroad historians and made a controversial name for cliometrics.\n"}
{"id": "14396799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14396799", "title": "Stepanos Asoghik", "text": "Stepanos Asoghik\n\nStepanos Asoghik (), also known as Stepanos Taronetsi (), was an Armenian historian of the 11th century. His dates are unknown but he came from Taron and earned the nickname \"Asoghik\" (\"teller of stories\"). He wrote a \"Universal History\" in three books. The first two books summarise the history of the world - with particular reference to Armenia - using the Bible, Eusebius of Caesarea, Moses of Khoren and others as sources. The third book deals with the history of the century leading up to Asoghik's own time in a rather disconnected fashion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1303475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303475", "title": "Stephen Bungay", "text": "Stephen Bungay\n\nStephen Francis Bungay (born 2 September 1954) is a British management consultant, historian and author who has made a special study of the Battle of Britain.\n\nBungay read Modern Languages at Oxford, where he received an MA with First Class Honours. He subsequently studied for a doctorate in philosophy at Oxford and the University of Tübingen in Germany, where he was a Research Fellow of the Humboldt Foundation. Stephen worked in the London and Munich offices of The Boston Consulting Group for a total of seventeen years. On leaving BCG, he ran a Division of an insurance company before subsequently joining the Ashridge Strategic Management Centre. He teaches on several executive programmes at Ashridge Business School, and works as an independent consultant, teacher and speaker.\nHe published his first book on military history, \"The Most Dangerous Enemy – A History of the Battle of Britain\", in 2000. A new illustrated edition appeared in 2010. His second history book, \"Alamein\", was published in 2002. Since 2004 he has also been a frequent contributor to television programmes. He featured in the Channel 4 series 'Spitfire Ace', and has appeared on individual programmes for Channel 5, BBC 2 and BBC 4, the History Channel, National Geographic and TV New Zealand.\n\nHe married Atalanta Beaumont in 1987, the daughter of Tim Beaumont, Baron Beaumont of Whitley. They have two sons born in 1990 and 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5909968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5909968", "title": "The Fable of the Bees", "text": "The Fable of the Bees\n\nThe Fable of The Bees: or, Private Vices, Public Benefits is a book by Bernard Mandeville, consisting of the poem \"The Grumbling Hive: or, Knaves turn’d Honest,\" along with prose discussion of the poem. The poem was published in 1705, and the book first appeared in 1714. The poem suggests many key principles of economic thought, including division of labor and the \"invisible hand\", seventy years before these concepts were more thoroughly elucidated by Adam Smith. Two centuries later, the noted economist John Maynard Keynes cited Mandeville to show that it was \"no new thing ... to ascribe the evils of unemployment to ... the insufficiency of the propensity to consume\", a condition also known as the \"paradox of thrift,\" which was central to his own theory of effective demand.\n\nAt the time, however, it was considered scandalous. Keynes noted that it was \"convicted as a nuisance by the grand jury of Middlesex in 1723, which stands out in the history of the moral sciences for its scandalous reputation. Only one man is recorded as having spoken a good word for it, namely Dr. Johnson, who declared that it did not puzzle him, but 'opened his eyes into real life very much'.\"\n\nIt was also reported that:\nMandeville gave great offense by this book, in which a cynical system of morality was made attractive by ingenious paradoxes. ... His doctrine that prosperity was increased by expenditure rather than by saving fell in with many current economic fallacies not yet extinct. Assuming with the ascetics that human desires were essentially evil and therefore produced \"private vices\" and assuming with the common view that wealth was a \"public benefit\", he easily showed that all civilization implied the development of vicious propensities... \n\nThe poem had appeared in 1705 and was intended as a commentary on England as Mandeville saw it. Keynes described the poem as setting forth \"the appalling plight of a prosperous community in which all the citizens suddenly take it into their heads to abandon luxurious living, and the State to cut down armaments, in the interests of Saving\".\n\nThe \"hive\" is corrupt but prosperous, yet it grumbles about lack of virtue. A higher power decides to give them what they ask for:\n\nThis results in a rapid loss of prosperity, though the newly virtuous hive does not mind:\n\nThe poem ends in a famous phrase:\n\nThe poem attracted little attention. The 1714 work, however, quickly achieved notoriety, being understood as an attack on Christian virtues. What it actually means remains controversial down to the present day. Mandeville did say:\n\nWhat Country soever in the Universe is to be understood by the Bee-Hive represented here, it is evident from what is said of the Laws and Constitution of it, the Glory, Wealth, Power and Industry of its Inhabitants, that it must be a large, rich and warlike Nation, that is happily govern'd by a limited Monarchy. The Satyr therefore to be met with in the following Lines upon the several Professions and Callings, and almost every Degree and Station of People, was not made to injure and point to a particular Persons, but only to shew the Vileness of the Ingredients that all together compose the wholesome Mixture of a well-order'd Society; in order to extol the wonderful Power of Political Wisdom, by the help of which so beautiful a Machine is rais'd from the most contemptible Branches. For the main Design of the Fable, (as it is briefly explain'd in the Moral) is to shew the Impossibility of enjoying all the most elegant Comforts of Life that are to be met with in an industrious, wealthy and powerful Nation, and at the same time be bless'd with all the Virtue and Innocence that can be wish'd for in a Golden Age; from thence to expose the Unreasonableness and Folly of those, that desirous of being an opulent and flourishing People, and wonderfully greedy after all the Benefits they can receive as such, are yet always murmuring at and exclaiming against those Vices and Inconveniences, that from the Beginning of the World to this present Day, have been inseparable from all Kingdoms and States that ever were fam'd for Strength, Riches, and Politeness, at the same time.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau commented on \"The Fable of the Bees\" in part one of his \"Discourse on the Origin and Basis of Inequality Among Men\" (1754):\n\nMandeville sensed very well that even with all their morality men would never have been anything but monsters if nature had not given them pity in support of reason; but he did not see that from this quality alone flow all the social virtues he wants to question in men. In fact, what are generosity, clemency, humanity, if not pity applied to the weak, to the guilty, to the human species in general?\n\nMandeville is today generally regarded as a serious economist and philosopher. He produced a second volume of \"The Fable of the Bees\" in 1729, with an extensive set of dialogues that set out his economic views. His ideas about the division of labor draw on those of William Petty, and are similar to those of Adam Smith. Mandeville says:\n\nWhen once Men come to be govern’d by written Laws, all the rest comes on a-pace. Now Property, and Safety of Life and Limb, may be secured: This naturally will forward the Love of Peace, and make it spread. No number of Men, when once they enjoy Quiet, and no Man needs to fear his Neighbour, will be long without learning to divide and subdivide their Labour...\nMan, as I have hinted before, naturally loves to imitate what he sees others do, which is the reason that savage People all do the same thing: This hinders them from meliorating their Condition, though they are always wishing for it: But if one will wholly apply himself to the making of Bows and Arrows, whilst another provides Food, a third builds Huts, a fourth makes Garments, and a fifth Utensils, they not only become useful to one another, but the Callings and Employments themselves will in the same Number of Years receive much greater Improvements, than if all had been promiscuously follow’d by every one of the Five...\nThe truth of what you say is in nothing so conspicuous, as it is in Watch-making, which is come to a higher degree of Perfection, than it would have been arrived at yet, if the whole had always remain'd the Employment of one Person; and I am persuaded, that even the Plenty we have of Clocks and Watches, as well as the Exactness and Beauty they may be made of, are chiefly owing to the Division that has been made of that Art into many Branches. (\"The Fable of the Bees, Volume two\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31880880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31880880", "title": "Theoretical foundations of evolutionary psychology", "text": "Theoretical foundations of evolutionary psychology\n\nThe theoretical foundations of evolutionary psychology are the general and specific scientific theories that explain the ultimate origins of psychological traits in terms of evolution. These theories originated with Charles Darwin's work, including his speculations about the evolutionary origins of social instincts in humans. Modern evolutionary psychology, however, is possible only because of advances in evolutionary theory in the 20th century.\n\nEvolutionary psychologists say that natural selection has provided humans with many psychological adaptations, in much the same way that it generated humans' anatomical and physiological adaptations. As with adaptations in general, psychological adaptations are said to be specialized for the environment in which an organism evolved, the environment of evolutionary adaptedness, or EEA. Sexual selection provides organisms with adaptations related to mating. For male mammals, which have a relatively fast reproduction rate, sexual selection leads to adaptations that help them compete for females. For female mammals, with a relatively slow reproduction rate, sexual selection leads to choosiness, which helps females select higher quality mates. Charles Darwin described both natural selection and sexual selection, but he relied on group selection to explain the evolution of self-sacrificing behavior. Group selection is a weak explanation because in any group the less self-sacrificing animals will be more likely to survive and the group will become less self-sacrificing.\n\nIn 1964, William D. Hamilton proposed inclusive fitness theory, emphasizing a \"gene's-eye\" view of evolution. Hamilton noted that individuals can increase the replication of their genes into the next generation by helping close relatives with whom they share genes survive and reproduce. According to \"Hamilton's rule\", a self-sacrificing behavior can evolve if it helps close relatives so much that it more than compensates for the individual animal's sacrifice. Inclusive fitness theory resolved the issue of how \"altruism\" evolved. Other theories also help explain the evolution of altruistic behavior, including evolutionary game theory, tit-for-tat reciprocity, and generalized reciprocity. These theories not only help explain the development of altruistic behavior but also account for hostility toward cheaters (individuals that take advantage of others' altruism).\n\nSeveral mid-level evolutionary theories inform evolutionary psychology. The r/K selection theory proposes that some species prosper by having many offspring while others follow the strategy of having fewer offspring but investing much more in each one. Humans follow the second strategy. Parental investment theory explains how parents invest more or less in individual offspring based on how successful those offspring are likely to be, and thus how much they might improve the parents' inclusive fitness. According to the Trivers-Willard hypothesis, parents in good conditions tend to invest more in sons (who are best able to take advantage of good conditions), while parents in poor conditions tend to invest more in daughters (who are best able to have successful offspring even in poor conditions). According to life history theory, animals evolve life histories to match their environments, determining details such as age at first reproduction and number of offspring. Dual inheritance theory posits that genes and human culture have interacted, with genes affecting the development of culture and culture, in turn, affecting human evolution on a genetic level (see also the Baldwin effect).\n\nCritics of evolutionary psychology have sometimes challenged its theoretical underpinnings, saying that humans never developed powerful social instincts through natural selection and that the hypotheses of evolutionary psychologists are merely just-so-stories.\n\nEvolutionary psychology primarily uses the theories of natural selection, sexual selection, and inclusive fitness to explain the evolution of psychological adaptations.\n\nEvolutionary psychology is sometimes seen not simply as a subdiscipline of psychology but as a metatheoretical framework in which \"the entire field of psychology can be examined.\"\n\nEvolutionary psychologists consider Charles Darwin's theory of natural selection to be important to an understanding of psychology. Natural selection occurs because individual organisms who are genetically better suited to the current environment leave more descendants, and their genes spread through the population, thus explaining why organisms fit their environments so closely. This process is slow and cumulative, with new traits layered over older traits. The advantages created by natural selection are known as adaptations. Evolutionary psychologists say that animals, just as they evolve physical adaptations, evolve psychological adaptations.\n\nEvolutionary psychologists emphasize that natural selection mostly generates specialized adaptations, which are more efficient than general adaptations. They point out that natural selection operates slowly, and that adaptations are sometimes out of date when the environment changes rapidly. In the case of humans, evolutionary psychologists say that much of human nature was shaped during the stone age and may not match the contemporary environment.\n\nSexual selection favors traits that provide mating advantages, such as the peacock's tail, even if these same traits are usually hindrances. Evolutionary psychologists point out that, unlike natural selection, sexual selection typically leads to the evolution of sex differences. Sex differences typically make reproduction faster for one sex and slower for the other, in which case mates are relatively scarce for the faster sex. Sexual selection favors traits that increase the number of mates for the fast sex and the quality of mates for the slow sex. For mammals, the female has the slower reproduction rate. Males typically evolve either traits to help them fight other males or traits to impress females. Females typically evolve greater abilities to discern the qualities of males, such as choosiness in mating.\n\nInclusive fitness theory, proposed by William D. Hamilton, emphasized a \"gene's-eye\" view of evolution. Hamilton noted that what evolution ultimately selects are genes, not groups or species. From this perspective, individuals can increase the replication of their genes into the next generation not only directly via reproduction, by also indirectly helping close relatives with whom they share genes survive and reproduce. General evolutionary theory, in its modern form, \"is\" essentially inclusive fitness theory.\n\nInclusive fitness theory resolved the issue of how \"altruism\" evolved. The dominant, pre-Hamiltonian view was that altruism evolved via group selection: the notion that altruism evolved for the benefit of the group. The problem with this was that if one organism in a group incurred any fitness costs on itself for the benefit of others in the group, (i.e. acted \"altruistically\"), then that organism would reduce its own ability to survive and/or reproduce, therefore reducing its chances of passing on its altruistic traits.\n\nFurthermore, the organism that benefited from that altruistic act and only acted on behalf of its own fitness would increase its own chance of survival and/or reproduction, thus increasing its chances of passing on its \"selfish\" traits.\nInclusive fitness resolved \"the problem of altruism\" by demonstrating that altruism can evolve via kin selection as expressed in Hamilton's rule:\ncost < relatedness × benefit\nIn other words, altruism can evolve as long as the fitness \"cost\" of the altruistic act on the part of the actor is less than the \"degree of genetic relatedness\" of the recipient times the fitness \"benefit\" to that recipient.\nThis perspective reflects what is referred to as the gene-centered view of evolution and demonstrates that group selection is a very weak selective force.\n\nMiddle-level evolutionary theories are consistent with general evolutionary theory, but focus on certain domains of functioning (Buss, 2011) Specific evolutionary psychology hypotheses may be derivative from a mid-level theory (Buss, 2011). Three very important middle-level evolutionary theories were contributed by Robert Trivers as well as Robert MacArthur and E. O. Wilson\n\n"}
{"id": "31272890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31272890", "title": "Timeline of Latvian history", "text": "Timeline of Latvian history\n\nThis is a timeline of Latvian history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Latvia and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Latvia. See also the list of presidents of Latvia.\n\n"}
{"id": "43376375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43376375", "title": "Timeline of the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict", "text": "Timeline of the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict\n\nTimeline of the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict. Over 2014, Palestinians suffered the highest number of civilian casualties since the Six-Day War in 1967, according to a United Nations report, given the July–August conflict, and rising tolls in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. A spike in Israeli casualties also occurred. 2,256 Palestinians and 85 Israelis died, while 17,125 Palestinians, and 2,639 Israelis suffered injuries.\n\nFor events pertaining to the conflict which occurred before 8 July 2014, see Background of the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict and Operation Brother's Keeper.\n<section begin=Overview />\n\nAs the Israeli operation began, and the IDF bombarded targets in the Gaza Strip with artillery and airstrikes, Hamas continued to fire rockets and mortar shells into Israel in response. A cease-fire proposal was announced by the Egyptian government on 14 July, backed by Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas; the Israeli government accepted it and temporarily stopped hostilities on the morning of 15 July, but Hamas rejected it in \"its current form\", citing the fact Hamas has not been consulted in the formation of the ceasefire and it omitted many of their demands. By 16 July, the death toll within Gaza had surpassed 200 people.\n\nOn 16 July, Hamas and Islamic Jihad offered the Israeli government a 10-year truce with ten conditions centred on the lifting of the blockade and the release of prisoners who were released in the Gilad Shalit prisoner swap and were re-arrested; it was not accepted. On 17 July, a five-hour humanitarian ceasefire, proposed by the UN, took place. Approximately five and a half hours prior to the ceasefire's effect, the IDF sighted 13 armed Hamas militants emerging from a Gazan tunnel on the Israeli side of the Gaza border. IDF destroyed the tunnel's exit, ending the incursion. After the ceasefire, IDF began a ground offensive on the Gaza Strip focused on destroying tunnels crossing the Israel border. On 20 July, the Israeli military entered Shuja'iyya, a populous neighborhood of Gaza City, resulting in heavy fighting.\n\nOn 24 July, over 10,000 Palestinians in the West Bank protested against the Israeli operation; 2 Palestinian protesters died. 150 Hamas militants who surrendered to the IDF were being questioned about Hamas operations. On 25 July, an Israeli airstrike killed Salah Abu Hassanein, the leader of Islamic Jihad's military wing. On 26 July, another humanitarian ceasefire took place for twelve hours, followed by a unilateral extension by Israel for another twenty-four hours, which was rejected by Hamas. The Palestinian death toll in the Gaza Strip topped 1,000.\n\nOn 1 August, the US and UN announced that Israel and Palestine had agreed to a 72-hour ceasefire starting at 08:00. There was dispute about the terms of the ceasefire: Israel and the US stated that they allowed Israel to \"continue to do operations to destroy tunnels that pose a threat to Israeli territory that lead from the Gaza Strip into Israel proper as long as those tunnels exist on the Israel side of their lines\"; Hamas said that it would not accept such a condition. The ceasefire broke down almost immediately after it started. Israel blamed Hamas for violating the ceasefire, saying a group of Israeli soldiers were attacked by Palestinian militants emerging from a tunnel. Palestinians said the IDF was the first to breach the ceasefire when at 08:30 it destroyed 19 buildings while undertaking work to demolish tunnels. According to the PLO, the Palestinian Authority and Gazan sources, Hamas attacked an Israeli unit, killing an Israeli officer (Hadar Goldin, who was initially thought to have been captured) while Israeli forces were still engaged in military activities in Rafah on Gaza's territory before the truce came into effect. Tweets reported the battle in Rafah before the deadline for the cease-fire. Hamas also killed two soldiers in a suicide bombing attack. Senior Hamas leader Moussa Abu Marzouk accused Israel of creating pretexts to undermine the Gaza ceasefire and said that Palestinian fighters abducted the officer and killed the two soldiers before the start of the humanitarian truce, which a Hamas witness has stated began at 7:30 and lasted five minutes, while Israel said the event took place at 09:20, after the 08:00 start of the ceasefire.\n\nOn 3 August, IDF pulled most of its ground forces out of the Gaza Strip after completing the destruction of 32 tunnels built by Hamas and other militants. On 5 August, Israel announced that it had arrested Hossam Kawasmeh on 11 July, and suspected him of having organized the killing of the three teenagers. According to court documents, Kawasmeh stated that Hamas members in Gaza financed the recruitment and arming of the killers.\n\nOn 10 August, another Egyptian proposal for a 72-hour ceasefire was negotiated and agreed upon Israeli and Palestinian officials, and on 13 August it was extended for another 120 hours to allow both sides to continue negotiations for a long-term solution to end the month-long fighting. On 19 August, a 24-hour ceasefire extension renewal was violated just hours after agreement with 29 Hamas rockets fired in 20 minutes, with IAF airstrikes in response, killing 9 Gazans. The Israeli delegation was ordered home from Cairo.\n\nOn 21 August, an Israeli airstrike in Rafah killed three of Hamas's top commanders: Mohammed Abu Shammala, Raed al Atar and Mohammed Barhoum. During the period from 22 to 26 August, over 700 rockets and mortar shells fired into Israel, killing 3 Israelis. On 26 August, Israel and Hamas accepted another cease-fire at 19:00.\n\nOn 16 September, Mortar shell fired to Israel for the first time since the cease-fire. Citizens worried that the fighting would resume with the Gaza Strip at the beginning of the new year (Rosh Hashanah). Defense Minister, Moshe Ya’alon estimated that fighting would not resume with the Gaza Strip at the end of this month.\nAbbas call for UNSC resolution to end Mideast conflict. Hollande, French president show supported in his effort. On Tuesday, 20 September, negotiations between Israel and Gaza will begin in Cairo.\n\nAccording to Palestinians on 1 October, Israeli forces entered the Gaza Strip and fired upon Palestinian farmers and farms. No injuries were reported.\n\nIDF reported that on 31 October a rocket or a mortar shell was launched from Gaza into southern Israel without causing harm.\n\nOn 23 November, a Palestinian farmer was shot dead in Gaza, marking the first time a Palestinian from Gaza had been killed by Israeli fire since a seven-week war between Israel and Hamas militants ended with an Egyptian-brokered ceasefire on 26 August. The Israeli army said two Palestinians had approached the border fence and had ignored calls to halt, prompting troops to fire warning shots in the air. \"Once they didn't comply, they fired towards their lower extremities. There was one hit,\" a spokeswoman said.<section end=Overview />\n\nAfter an Israeli Air Force strike killed 7 Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip the day before, Hamas responded by launching rockets and assumed responsibility for all rockets fired from Gaza. In preparations for a potential escalation in fighting, the Israeli Defense Force (IDF) called up 1,500 reserves on 7 July. These reserves were positioned around southern Israel and were working on training in case of escalation.\n\nThe IDF continued calling up additional reserves on 8 July, stating plans to call up 40,000 or more. Due to the rocket fire from the Gaza Strip into Israel, the IDF Home Front Command closed all summer camps and banned gatherings of more than 300 people within 40 km of Gaza, while universities suspended studies and final exams, and people were cautioned to stay close to shelter. In Gaza, 37,000 students who had completed high school had their graduation delayed.\n\nIn the early morning of 8 July, Israel announced it had struck at least 50 targets in Gaza overnight Monday, injuring 17 people. In the Central Gaza Strip, 13 IAF airstrikes, with 16 missiles, struck numerous targets In Gaza City, 9 airtstrikes involving 11 missiles struck militant sites, agricultural plots and a blacksmith workshop. In the Northern Gaza Strip, 36 airstrikes using 45 missiles targeted numerous houses and militant training sites, and a poultry farm. In Khan Yunis 7 airstrikes using 18 missiles demolished 3 houses, with collateral damage to nearby homes. In Rafah 4 airstrikes involving 9 missiles hit 2 houses and agricultural sites.\n\nA force of five Hamas naval commandos landed on a beach in Israel near kibbutz Zikim and advanced toward an IDF command post. Israeli infantry, aircraft, and a naval vessel engaged the Hamas commandos, killing all five. A short while later, a parachute was found abandoned near Yad Mordechai and a Gaza tunnel exploded near Kerem Shalom.\n\nThis was followed by Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu instructing the IDF to \"take their gloves off\" against Hamas and instructed them to take any means necessary to restore peace to Israeli citizens. As the afternoon progressed, the IDF continued their targeted retaliation, including the home of senior Hamas member Abdul Rahman Juda, which served as a command and control center.\n\nAdditionally, the IDF targeted and killed Muhammad Sa'aban a commander of Hamas's naval commando unit. The IDF targeted the homes of Hamas members Eiad Sakik, Abdullah Hshash, Samer Abu Daka, and Hassan Abdullah. The Palestinians confirmed that all homes were called by the IDF prior to being hit, asking residents to leave. The IDF assassinated Islamic Jihad commander Hafez Hamad, who was a commander in its military wing in Beit Hanoun, in an airstrike on his home.\n\nLate afternoon, Hamas announced that all Israelis are now legitimate targets. Early evening, the Iron Dome Defense system shot down a rocket over Tel Aviv.\n\nHamas, in the evening, held a press conference to express their demands to stop their offense on Israel. Hamas demanded that Israel halt what it termed aggression in Jerusalem; the West Bank; and the Gaza Strip, re-release of the prisoners of the Gilad Shalit deal, and re-commit to all the terms of the Operation Pillar of Defense cease-fire. Hamas claimed responsibility for rocket fire. In addition, the Islamic Jihad (PIJ) claimed responsibility for 60 rockets, the Popular Resistance Committees asserted they had fired 17, and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine claimed responsibility for three.\nLate in the evening, a second rocket was shot down over Tel Aviv. Following this air sirens went off in Binyamina and Hamas stated that a rocket was fired at Haifa. This was all followed by several rockets being fired at Jerusalem and two landing just outside Jerusalem. Just before midnight, a rocket hit Hadera, north of Tel Aviv, making it the longest range rocket ever shot into Israel. Upon investigation of the shrapnel, Israel determined it was a Syrian-made M302 Rocket.\n\nBy the end of 8 July, Israeli Air Force (IAF) and the Israeli Navy had struck 435 targets in Gaza, resulting in the death of at least 23 Palestinians, including two children under five, and over 122 injuries. Also, during the first day 225 rockets were fired from Gaza into Israel and 40 of out of 225 were intercepted.\n\nProperty damage in Israel totaled approximately 10 million NIS, from 35 vehicles, 52 buildings, 12 agriculture-related damages reported.\n\nJust after midnight on 9 July, President Mahmoud Abbas announced he would convene an emergency meeting of the Palestinian leadership to discuss the escalation, in addition to contacting Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi to attempt to broker a ceasefire.\n\nThe IDF confirmed that overnight it struck 160 targets in Gaza, bringing the total to 435 sites that Israel has struck, while from Gaza 235 rockets have been fired. Overnight in Rafah 95 airstrikes, with 130 missiles, targeted houses, militant training sites and border tunnels. In Khan Yunis. 74 airstrikes struck 9 houses, 2 mosque minarets, and militant sites with 80 missiles. In the Central Gaza Strip, 20 airstrikes using 30 missiles destroyed 4 houses. Also targeted were militants and agricultural plots. 65 Palestinians were wounded. In Gaza City, 42 airstrikes, employing 75 missiles, struck various targets. In the Northern Gaza Strip 112 airstrikes were launched with 114 missiles, destroying 6 houses, killing 8 and injuring a further 89. On the morning of 9 July the IDF confirmed that two further rockets had been shot down over Tel Aviv.\n\nIn an interview given to \"The Guardian\" published in the morning, a spokesperson for Medical Aid for Palestinians stated that at least seven children have died as a result of Israeli air strikes so far.\n\nIn the afternoon, the Iron Dome shot down a rocket over Zichron Yaakov, 120 km (75 miles) from the Gaza border. This was immediately followed by two rockets landing in the Mount Carmel region, just short of Haifa; Hamas said they were responsible, and that Gaza had been hit 500 times in the past two days. The IDF announced that they had struck 129 targets in Gaza including Palestinian militants, rocket launchers, weapons stores, tunnels and command centers.\n\nIn the early evening two rockets, believed by Israel to have been aimed at Haifa, landed in an open field in Caesarea. Israel struck a house in Gaza, killing a mother and her two children. Palestinians reported that the Islamic Jihad Communications Commander was killed in IAF strike on his house. Following the Israeli attacks on Gaza, the death toll rose to 43; Abbas called the operation an Israeli genocide. Within the first 36 hours of Operation Protective Edge, Israel hit more targets in Gaza than they had in the full eight days of Operation Pillar of Defense.\n\nAs night fell, Hamas fired multiple rockets toward Dimona, which they said were attempting to hit the nuclear reactors. Israel continued to strike Gaza; Palestinian casualties rose to 51 dead and 450 injuries Over the same period, Magen David Adom reported that there had been no Israeli deaths and 68 injuries, 59 from shock and nine while running for shelter.\n\nAs the second day came to an end, the IDF announced that it had hit over 550 targets in Gaza over the first two days. Hamas fired approximately 180 rockets into Israel during the second day. Palestinian casualties were 68 dead and 550 injured (some of them civilians).\n\nShortly after midnight, the United Nations Security Council announced that it would hold a special meeting to discuss the current Israel–Palestinian conflict. Several hours later, Ban Ki-moon announced that he would be addressing the Security Council and that he had already spoken with several world leaders.\n\nThroughout the night, Israel continued their targeted attacks on Gaza, hitting several sites, resulting in 14 additional deaths, including some women and children. Overnight in the Northern Gaza Strip, 111 airstrikes, involving 120 missiles,struck 15 houses and other targets., with 9 deaths and 51 wounded. In Gaza City, 46 airstrikes, using 54 missiles, hit 14 houses, 2 security sites and a press vehicle, resulting in 10 fatalities and 70 injured. In the Central Gaza Strip, 30 airstrikes, with 33 missiles, demolished 9 houses and struck police stations, resulting in 7 fatalities and 25 wounded. In Khan Yunis, 57 airstrikes demolished 12 houses and a beach resort killing 19 civilians. Israel vowed to intensify the attacks as the operation enters its third day. Eight of those killed were members of the Kaware family. Israel announced that although the family was warned, and they did leave the house, they returned after the warning shot hit the house. They returned home moments after the second rocket was fired and it was too late to reprogram. In total 320 sites in Gaza were hit overnight.\n\nOn the morning of 10 July, Gazan rockets were fired at Tel Aviv, Dimona, Mitzpe Ramon, Eshkol, Ashkelon, Netivot, Yeruham, and other locations. Finance Minister Yair Lapid warned that there would be an IDF ground operation if the rocket fire did not stop. During the morning of 10 July, an IDF Spokesman said that since the beginning of the operation in Israel 234 missiles had exploded and 61 rockets had been hit by the counter-rocket defense system Iron Dome. Israel additionally issued a warning to the 100,000 residents of Gaza near the border with Israel to evacuate their homes, leading many to believe that preparations for an Israeli ground offensive are underway.\n\nIn the early afternoon, at an IDF checkpoint on Highway 5, a car with Palestinian plates carrying Palestinians Arabs was stopped. The car contained two cooking gas tanks connected to what is believed to be a detonation device. Shin Bet is investigating what is believed to have been a car bomb. One of the two suspects later confessed they intended to perpetrate a terror attack.\n\nIn the late afternoon, an Israeli airstrike killed three Islamic Jihad members, Mahmoud Walud, Hazm Balusha, and Alla'a Abd al-Nabi, whom Israel holds responsible for rockets fired at Tel Aviv. With this strike, the total number of Palestinians killed in day three of the operation reached 33. The IDF also announced that 96 rockets had been fired from Gaza on 10 July and that 442 rockets had been launched over the past three days.\n\nIn the early evening, siren went off around Jerusalem, for the second time in the three-day-old operation. Two rockets were shot down over Jerusalem by the Iron Dome and one landed in the Abu Ghosh area.\n\nIn the evening, the US Consulate General in Jerusalem announced aid for any US citizens in Gaza who wish to leave. The US Consulate announcement came as Israel announced it would intensify the strikes in Gaza. Additionally, Israel announced that their goal is not a ceasefire, but that they want to fully dismantle Hamas's infrastructure.\n\nAs in the past few nights, militants from Gaza chose to shoot a large number of rockets into Israel during the 20:00 news broadcast, with tonight's resulting in a number of injuries after a direct hit on a house. Initial reports indicated that an Israeli was killed when a rocket hit their car; however this was later proven to be untrue as the car was empty, and the Israeli death count remained at zero since the operation started.\n\nAs the third day of fighting came to an end, Israel announced that 144 rockets had been shot at Israel on 10 July, and 442 since the operation started. This rocket fire has resulted in injuries to 123 people; one seriously, 21 moderately to lightly and 101 from shock. Israel had struck 201 targets In Gaza, resulting in 23 deaths and carried out almost 900 airstrikes on the Gaza strip since the start of the operation, killing at least 100 Palestinians (some of whom were civilians).\n\nHamas stated that they are ready for a long battle and that they plan a ground operation to free Palestinian prisoners.\n\nOvernight, in the Northern Gaza Strip 45 airstrikes hit 5 houses, 7 offices, 2 security sites, and militants. UNRWA buildings were damaged. There were 4 fatalities and 36 wounded. In Gaza City there were 40 airstrikes, with ground and sea shelling. 5 houses, a site of the Naval Police, the Gaza fishing harbor, a security compound, the 4th floor of al-Wafaa' Rehabilitation Hospital and a monument of the Turkish Marmara Ship were destroyed. In the Central Gaza Strip, 37 airstrikes struck militant sites, a motorbike, a charity office, destroying 9 houses. In Khan Yunis, 31 airstrikes destroyed 12 houses. In Palestinian calculations there were 19 civilian dead and 37 wounded. At approximately 03:30, the Iron Dome counter-rocket defense system shot down a rocket over Haifa, the first time a rocket from Gaza reached that far. An elderly woman running for cover when hearing the sirens collapsed and was pronounced dead at the scene.\n\nIn the early morning, Hussein Izzat Atwe, a member of Al-Jamaa Al-Islamiya fired rockets at Israel, from the Hasbaya region of Lebanon. Only one projectile was reported to have hit Israel and caused little or no damage. When Lebanon investigated they found six additional rockets ready to be fired, including one which had exploded when fired. One man was later arrested in connection with the rocket fire after police found blood in his car which matched blood found at the scene of the rocket launchers.\n\nIsraeli troops fired 25 artillery shells into Lebanon at the outskirts of the village of Kfar Shuba.\n\nIn the early evening, Egypt seized rockets that were being smuggled from Gaza into Egypt; it was believed these were to be used to fire on Israel.\n\nAfter three and a half days of the operation, Israel had struck 1,090 sites in Gaza, while 525 rockets had been fired from Gaza at Israel.\n\nIn the evening, two Israeli soldiers were injured by anti-aircraft missiles near Nahal Oz.\nBy the end of that day, Israel had struck 235 targets in Gaza, resulting in 23 deaths. From Gaza 137 rockets were fired toward Israel, causing no deaths.\n\nOvernight in the Northern Gaza Strip, 57 airstrikes, together with tank and gunboat fire, struck and shelled a variety of sites, destroying 10 houses and institutional offices, including a disability rehabilitation center. 77 people were wounded including 28 children and 21 women. In Gaza City, 43 airstrikes, combined with ground and sea shelling destroyed 11 houses, and hit security sites, and open land, with 11 killed and 30 wounded. In the Central Gaza Strip, 35 airstrikes demolished 9 houses, militant sites, open areas, and some charities and mosques. There were 6 fatalities and 41 wounded. In Khan Yunis, 39 airstrikes hit housing, demolishing 12 houses, and open areas, a charity and a bank. There were 9 fatalities. In Rafah 34 airstrikes targeted houses, destroying 8, and government offices and tunnels, and ground and sea artillery was all offices. There were 28 fatalities. An IDF strike targeting Gaza police chief Tayseer Al-Batsah's home killed 21 people and wounded 45. The police chief's Gaza City house was nearly destroyed by two rockets. Many of those killed were leaving a mosque, next door to the home, at the time of the strike.\n\nJust before dawn, an IDF missile hit a center for disabled people in northern Gaza killing two of its residents and injuring five more. A mosque which the IDF said was being used as an armory was also hit.\n\nRockets were fired at Beersheba and Ashdod wounding ten people, one of them seriously. Ten rockets aimed at Tel Aviv were launched, for which Hamas claimed responsibility; no casualties were reported. At around 20:00 in the evening, Hamas convened a news conference and announced that at 21:00 they would fire J80 rockets into central Israel that would challenge the Iron Dome system. The Iron Dome system intercepted three of the rockets; the rest fell in open areas. there were no injuries and minor shrapnel damage. In response, the IDF launched a combined attack involving artillery, helicopters, and fighter jets on many targets throughout the Gaza Strip. Rockets were fired at Haifa, where an elderly woman died of a heart attack while trying to reach a bomb shelter.\n\nLater in the evening, three rockets were fired from Gaza toward the Jewish settlement of Efrat, but all three landed in Palestinian neighborhoods; two in Bethlehem and one in Hebron.\n\nAround 23:00, two rockets were fired from Lebanon into western Galilee, causing no casualties; the IDF responded with artillery fire. By day's end, Israel had struck 180 targets in Gaza, resulting in 51 deaths. From Gaza 125 rockets were fired toward Israel, with no deaths.\n\nBy the start of the sixth day, Israel had struck 1,320 sites within Gaza, resulting in 167 deaths and more than 1,000 injured. During the same time frame, more than 600 rockets have been launched at Israel from Gaza.\n\nIn the early hours of the morning, Israeli naval commandos landed in Gaza on the al-Sudaniya beach, on a mission to raid a compound from which long-range rockets were being fired. The Israeli commandos encountered Hamas fighters during the raid, and a gunfight ensured. Three Hamas fighters were killed and four of the commandos were lightly wounded. Israel stated that their mission was successful, and it took out several long-range rocket launchers.\n\nAt 6:00am, 670 people living in Gaza who had dual citizenship were given a chance to be escorted by the IDF out of Gaza to their respective embassies in Israel. A 30-minute window was given to people wishing to leave; many people missed this opportunity and remained in Gaza.\n\nLater in the morning, Israel began dropping leaflets, making telephone calls, and sending texts warning Palestinians in northern Gaza to evacuate by noon. Schools in Gaza have been opened to shelter those who are evacuating their homes; which can shelter up to 35,000 people. Although Hamas discouraged people from following Israel's advice, it is believed that approximately 10,000 did, in fact, leave. After Israel began striking their targets in the north the number of people who left their home was reported at 17,000, totaling about 25% of the town's 70,000 residents.\n\nIn the morning, Palestinians fired four rockets at Gush Dan, the Shfela, and Ashdod. A boy was seriously injured in an Ashkelon rocket attack. In the afternoon, Hamas fired a heavy barrage of Fajr-5, M-75 and M-160 rockets to all parts of the country, including Ashkelon and Gush Dan. Iron Dome intercepted a rocket over Rishon Le-Zion, the Sharon plain and Haifa.\n\nIn the evening, a rocket fired from Gaza hit the infrastructure in Israel that provides electricity to 70,000 Palestinians in Gaza, cutting off their power. This was followed by a break from the rocket fire, which correlated with the World Cup. An Israel missile killed 9 youths and wounded 15 as they were watching the Argentine-Netherlands semi-final match in a beach café in Khan Younis,\n\nBy day's end, Israel had struck 173 targets in Gaza, resulting in 13 deaths. 130 rockets were fired from Gaza toward Israel, but there were no resulting fatalities.\n\nBy the start of day seven of the operation, there had been 1,320 strikes by Israel in Gaza, and 940 rockets fired from Gaza at Israel.\n\nThroughout the day, 115 rockets were fired from Gaza toward Israel, causing no fatalities. Israel struck 163 targets in Gaza, killing seven Hamas fighters and raising the overall death toll to 185. The IDF said that after the first seven days they believed 3,000 of the 9,000 rockets in Gaza had been destroyed. 1,050 rockets had been fired at Israel, leaving roughly 5,000 remaining rockets as of that time and date.\n\nIn the early afternoon, the IDF announced it had utilized a MIM-104 Patriot missile to down a drone, near Ashdod, which came from Gaza. Hamas later took responsibility for this drone, stating they had sent six into Israel, which successfully completed three missions over IDF military bases.\n\nIn the early evening, Hamas said it destroyed an IDF Merkava tank stationed near Gaza with a Kornet anti-tank missile; Israel confirmed that a missile had been fired at a tank, but said that the tank's Trophy Active Protection System destroyed the missile before it could cause any damage or injuries.\n\nAs day seven of the operation came to an end, news broke that a ceasefire negotiated by Egypt was close to being announced, effective 9:00am the following day. This would be followed by negotiations in Cairo on 10 July. Hamas acknowledged that negotiations were ongoing, however no agreements had been finalized.\n\nDuring the night, for the first time during the operation, two rockets were fired at Eilat, from Egypt.\n\nAt 07:00, Israel announced it had officially voted to accept the ceasefire proposed by Egypt for 09:00. Hamas rejected the ceasefire, claiming that it had not been consulted on it, and criticized it as an initiative of surrender rather than a truce, vowing that \"our battle with the enemy will continue and will increase in ferocity and intensity.\" Ismail Haniyeh, the deputy head of the Hamas political bureau, stated that although Hamas was contacted about the ceasefire, they would not accept it unless Israel fulfilled the \"demands of the Palestinian people\", such as ending the blockade. Hamas fired 40 rockets into Israel within the first five hours of the proposed ceasefire timeframe.\n\nAt approximately 15:00, six hours after Israel announced it would accept the ceasefire, Netanyahu announced that, due to the continued rocket fire from Gaza, they would be renewing their strikes.\n\nNetanyahu, on the evening of 15 July, fired Deputy Defense Minister Danny Danon. According to Netanyahu's associates, Danon lost his job for stating that Hamas had \"humiliated\" Israel.\n\nIn the evening, eight days into the operation, an Israeli civilian, Dror Hanin, a rabbi who was delivering food to Israeli soldiers, was killed in a mortar attack at the Erez crossing. He was the first Israeli directly killed in the war and the second Israeli death that was a result of it (the first being an elderly woman in Haifa who died of a heart attack while running to a bomb shelter).\n\nOn 15 July, Israel had struck 96 targets in Gaza, resulting in 16 deaths and 156 rockets had been fired toward Israel.\nIn eight days Israel had struck 1,603 targets in Gaza, causing 194 deaths. From Gaza 1,147 rockets were launched toward Israel, causing one Israeli death.\n\nAround midnight, the start of day nine of fighting, Netanyahu vowed to intensify and expand Israeli strikes after accelerated rocket launches from Gaza during the six-hour Israeli cessation of hostilities.\n\nDuring the night, Israeli warplanes bombed the house of senior Hamas leader Mahmoud al-Zahar. Israel also hit the homes of several Hamas leaders including Bassem Naim, Fathi Hammad and Ismail al-Ashqar, all four homes were reportedly empty at the time. Shortly after these attacks, it was announced the death toll within Gaza had surpassed 200 people. During the night, Israel sent pre-recorded messages to approximately 100,000 people in Gaza City to leave their homes by 8am.\n\nMagen David Adom in the evening reported that they offered to transfer donated blood to help those injured in Gaza; however the Palestinian Authority rejected the blood and rejected their offer to help run blood drives.\n\nIn the early afternoon, Hamas and the PIJ proposed a ten-year truce with Israel. The Palestinian terms for a truce included:\n\nLater in the afternoon, four Palestinian boys from the Fatah-aligned Bakr family, aged between 9 and 11,Ismail, Zachariah, Ahed and Mohammed Bakr, were killed on a Gaza beach by a shell fired by an Israeli naval gunboat as they were playing soccer. A later Israeli criminal investigation closed the case stating the site was a Hamas Naval Police and Naval Force compound, which was shelled when several figures were observed entering it \"at a running pace\" and \"the figures were not identified at any point during the incident, as children.\"A 2015 IDF internal report, published in 2018 by The Intercept, concluded that the four were killed by missiles fired from a Hermes 450 surveillance drone hovering above the beach, after the go-ahead was given by an Israeli air force commander at the Palmachim air base, south of Tel Aviv. One boy was said to be mistaken for a Hamas militant was killed, and as the other 3 fled, the drone operators asked their supervisors how far they could pursue the other three along the beach. Since no reply was given, the other three were then taken out. No charges were laid for criminal negligence since, in the view of the reviewing committee, it was impossible with air surveillance to identify the four as children.\n\nDuring the day, UNRWA discovered approximately 20 rockets hidden in a vacant school in the Gaza Strip. Israel claimed that the rockets were returned to Hamas. Christopher Gunness, the spokesperson of UNRWA, has denied this, saying that \"According to longstanding UN practice in UN humanitarian operations worldwide, incidents involving unexploded ordnance that could endanger beneficiaries and staff are referred to the local authorities. Local authorities fall under the government of national consensus in Ramallah.\"\n\nOn 16 July Israel had struck 50 targets in Gaza, resulting in 17 deaths. From Gaza 94 rockets were fired toward Israel, resulting in no fatalities. \n\nDuring the night, Israel agreed to a five-hour humanitarian ceasefire, proposed by the UN, followed shortly by Hamas' acceptance. The ceasefire took place from 10:00 to 15:00, local time.\n\nApproximately five and a half hours prior to the ceasefire's effect, 13 armed Hamas fighters emerged from a tunnel on the Israeli side of the Gaza border near kibbutz Sufa. The IDF detected the infiltrators, who went back to the tunnel shaft to escape back to Gaza after realizing they had been spotted. The IDF hit the tunnel shaft with an airstrike, killing five of the infiltrators. No Israeli casualties were sustained in this incident. Israeli Army Radio reported the men were carrying weapons and abduction-related equipment, including tranquilizers and handcuffs. Subsequent searches of the tunnel uncovered ammunition, grenades, grenade-launchers, and military-grade vests.\n\nApproximately two hours into the ceasefire, three rockets were fired from Gaza into Israel. Israel attributed them to Hamas, although responsibility for them was not claimed. At exactly 15:00, at the end of the agreed upon five-hour ceasefire, sirens began ringing again in Israel, in the Ashkelon region.\n\nIn the early evening, for the second time since the operation began, the IDF shot down a drone launched from Gaza into Israel, using an MIM-104 Patriot missile. Hamas later acknowledged having launched the drone.\n\nAt the beginning of the night, IDF artillery batteries fired hundreds of shells into the northern Gaza strip after warning civilians to leave the area. Hamas ordered civilians not to leave, and some were still present when the attack started. IDF ground forces then entered Gaza. The Egyptian government stated that it held Hamas responsible for the hostilities leading to Israel's ground operations, as Hamas had been offered but rejected a ceasefire. Israeli Prime minister Netanyahu said that the ground invasion's task was to disable the tunnels near the border used by Hamas to invade Israel.\n\nShortly after Israeli ground forces entered Gaza, Israeli tanks began shelling Wafa Hospital in Gaza. Israel said it had given the hospital multiple advance warnings to evacuate their 17 patients before attacking a weapons storage facility at the hospital.\n\nShortly after midnight, the IDF announced approval to call up 18,000 additional reserves, bringing the total reserves IDF allowed to call to 72,000. Overnight the IDF destroyed the home of PIJ leader Abdullah al-Shami.\n\nThe IDF announced that 20 Hamas fighters were killed and 13 captured in the opening hours of the ground offensive. One Israeli soldier was killed during an operation against rocket launchers in Beit Hanoun on the early morning of July 18 after IDF troops came under fire, in an incident in which five other Israeli soldiers were injured. It was later established that he was killed by friendly fire.\n\nIn the early afternoon, Israel announced that paratroopers had found eight tunnels and later announced that thirteen more tunnels had been discovered.\n\nThe IDF announced that it had hit 260 targets in Gaza and uncovered 21 tunnels so far. Hamas military commander Ali Jandiya was killed in an Israeli airstrike on his home in Shuja'iyya. Three militants were killed by Israeli tank shelling on the building they were positioned in after firing an anti-tank missile at an Israeli tank. A search of the building uncovered a stockpile of weapons that included anti-tank missiles. Separately, Israeli commandos of the Maglan unit destroyed a Hamas position with a precision missile, and an armored force hit a militant squad preparing to fire an anti-tank missile. The IDF announced that a militant had been killed by Israeli troops after requesting medical assistance, only to attempt a grenade attack. An Israeli commando force of the Sayeret Rimon unit also ran into and killed a militant riding a motorcycle while combing a tunnel opening.\n\nShortly after midnight, the IDF said that more than 40 militants had been killed since the start of the ground operation, and an additional 21 militants had been captured.\n\nIn the late morning, nine Hamas militants entered Israel via a tunnel, wearing IDF uniforms and carrying weapons, handcuffs, syringes, and sedatives. They were met by IDF troops. One militant and two IDF soldiers were killed in the resulting exchange of fire. The remaining militants escaped through the tunnel, and several of them were later killed in Gaza by an Israeli airstrike. Hamas claimed to have killed five IDF soldiers in the attack.\n\nDuring the day, an anti-tank missile was fired at an IDF position in Gaza, killing a soldier. In the evening, a Hamas fighter emerged from a tunnel in southern Gaza and opened fire at an Israeli unit, killing a soldier and wounding another. The soldiers returned fire, killing the attacker.\n\nIn the afternoon, a rocket fired from Gaza at Israel landed on a tent of an Israeli Bedouin family, killing a man, critically injuring a 4-month-old, and injuring two others. By that night the IDF had uncovered 34 tunnels within Gaza, and was dismantling them.\n\nOn 19 July, over 94 rockets were fired from Gaza at Israel. That day the IDF hit 140 sites in Gaza, bringing the total to 260 since the ground operation started, causing 49 Palestinian deaths on that day and 348 since the operation started.\n\nIn the evening, the Battle of Shuja'iyya began. The IDF launched a preemptive bombardment of the Shuja'iyya neighborhood of Gaza City, prior to a ground incursion. According to the IDF, at least 15 Palestinian militants were killed in the preemptive bombardment. An IDF force spearheaded by the Golani Brigade then entered Shuja'iyya. Late on 19 July, forward elements of the Golani Brigade met Hamas units and fierce combat broke out, with Hamas fighters emerging from tunnels and bunkers to engage the Israelis, employing sniper fire, automatic weapons, and anti-tank missiles, pinning down some Israeli formations.\n\nThe Battle of Shuja'iyya, which had begun the previous day, continued as Israeli troops and Hamas fighters continued to battle in Shuja'iyya. On the morning of 20 July, seven Israeli soldiers were killed when an Israeli M113 armored personnel carrier was hit by an anti-tank missile. Hamas fighters managed to seize the body of Staff Sergeant Oron Shaul, one of the soldiers killed in the attack on the armored personnel carrier. IDF engineering forces later reached the wreck of the APC and towed it back to Israel. In the following hours, three more Israeli soldiers were killed in clashes with Hamas fighters, and three others were killed when an anti-tank missile hit a building where soldiers were setting up a command center. The IDF brought in D9 armored bulldozers to destroy enemy positions. In one case, a few Hamas fighters were killed when an IDF bulldozer destroyed a tunnel they were in. After particularly heavy fire was laid down on Israeli forces in Shuja'iyya, the IDF launched a massive artillery barrage and series of airstrikes after ordering the infantry into armored personnel carriers, with artillery fire landing within 100 meters of Israeli forces. According to the IDF, 37 Hamas fighters were killed in the bombardment, and all firing ceased afterward.\n\nIn total, at least 72 and up to 120 Palestinians, including civilians, were killed in the battle, in what local medical authorities, along with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, called a massacre. The IDF stated that Shuja'iyya had been the site of 8% of the rocket launches since 8 July, and that residents had been warned to leave two days earlier.\n\nHamas requested via the Red Crescent a humanitarian ceasefire for the Shuja'iyya neighborhood to allow the evacuation of wounded from the area. The IDF agreed, and the ceasefire began at 13:30; however, only an hour into the truce, IDF troops came under fire and responded. Despite the issues during the ceasefire, Israel agreed to extend it by one hour.\n\nIn total, the IDF confirmed that 13 IDF soldiers were killed during the fighting in Shuja'iyya. Another 56 soldiers were wounded and scores were hospitalized, including the commander of the Golani Brigade, Colonel Ghassan Alian. The IDF claimed that more than 100 Palestinian militants were killed in Gaza during the night. In one airstrike aimed at a Hamas member, 25 members of one family were killed along with the target. During the overnight fighting, the IDF uncovered ten more tunnel systems.\n\nThe military wing of Hamas claimed to have killed at least 32 Israeli soldiers since 19 July. Hamas also claimed captured an Israeli soldier named Shaul Aron. However, Ron Prosor, the Israeli ambassador to the United Nations, denied the report. Israel confirmed that Staff Sergeant Oron Shaul was missing, but eventually declared him dead.\n\nSince the beginning of the operation, IDF has struck some 2,800 targets in Gaza, while 1,497 rockets have been fired from Gaza at Israel.\n\nDuring the night, two cells of Palestinian militants attempted to infiltrate Israel using tunnels. While the Israeli Air Force directly hit the first cell, ground troops engaged the second. At least ten militants were killed in the two incidents. During one attack, 10 Palestinians exited the tunnel wearing full IDF uniforms. Four IDF soldiers were killed in the attack when an anti-tank missile hit their jeep. Another three Israeli soldiers were killed in heavy fighting in Shuja'iyya, during which the Israeli Air Force dropped 120 one-ton bombs on the neighborhood, striking within 250 meters of ground troops. Israeli commandos of the Egoz Unit killed 10 Palestinian militants in Shuja'iyya, including one who was carrying an explosive belt. The commander of the Egoz Unit was seriously wounded in the fighting. Two other Israeli soldiers were killed in fighting elsewhere in Gaza. An Israeli officer commanding a paratrooper unit in the Khan Yunis area was fatally shot by a sniper, and would die of his injuries in January 2017.\n\nAn Israeli airstrike in Gaza City killed Islamic Jihad commander Sha’ban Suleiman al-Dahdouh, a commander in the Islamic Jihad's battalion in Zeitoun.\n\nReports from Gaza in the afternoon stated that the IDF shelled a hospital, killing five and injuring many others. The IDF commented on the situation stating that their target was a stock of anti-tank missiles which was stored in the immediate vicinity of the hospital.\n\nAt the Erez Border Crossing, IDF set up a field hospital for injured Palestinians from Gaza.\n\nA 21 July CNN report stated that more than 83,000 Palestinians have sought refuge in U.N. facilities with more than 2,000 rockets fired at Israel since the start of the Operation, the latter information from the IDF. That day as well, President of the United States Barack Obama called for a return to the Gaza-Israel cease-fire agreement while also expressing regret at the civilian casualties both in Israel and in Palestine.\n\nShortly after midnight, the United Arab Emirates announced they would be giving $41 million in aid to Gazans and the U.S. government announced $47 million in aid.\n\nA night raid by an Israeli force of the Nahal Brigade killed eight Palestinian fighters. In the morning, a battle took place between an Israeli paratrooper unit and Hamas fighters in which 15 Hamas operatives and an Israeli soldier were killed. Two Israeli tank officers were also killed in fighting in Gaza. A tank company commander was killed by a Hamas sniper in Shuja'iyya, and a tank platoon commander was killed by enemy fire during combat in Beit Hanoun. Senior Hamas operative Muhammad Majed Abu Kamil was killed in an Israeli airstrike in Juhor ad-Dik. Another Hamas member was killed in an airstrike on his home in the Khan Yunis area.\n\nIn the late morning, Al Jazeera stated their office was currently under attack by the IDF. IDF denied this, but could not rule out indirect damage from nearby targets.\n\nIn the afternoon, the IDF released additional information about the infiltrators from Gaza the day before. Details included the announcement that at least three were children, including a 13- and 14-year-old who were both wearing suicide vests.\n\nIn the evening, the EU released a statement condemning the firing of rockets from Gaza at Israeli civilians, the use of human shields, and called for the disarming of Hamas, the PIJ and all other militant groups in Gaza. The EU added that although Israel has the right to defend itself, they were appalled at the loss of human life in Gaza and asked Israel to try harder to limit civilian casualties.\n\nLate in the evening, the UNRWA announced that for the second time in a week, during a routine inspection, rockets were found in one of their schools.\n\nDuring the night, a number of reports began circulating that the IDF was shelling the Al-Wafa hospital. The IDF later commented that, on several occasions, they were under direct fire from the hospital, a violation of international law; they also stated that they had been warning the hospital for several days to move the patients. A doctor from the hospital, Dr. Basman Alashi, confirmed that the hospital had been evacuated prior to the strike. The IDF released a video showing firing from the hospital, IDF's warning calls and finally the airstrike which triggered secondary explosions from weapons cached inside the hospital.\n\nIn the early morning, Hamas claimed to have shot down an F-16 over Gaza; however, Israel neither confirmed nor denied this claim.\n\nIn the afternoon, the IDF announced that it had recently discovered a new tunnel in Gaza in which IDF uniforms, maps, and weapons were found. In total, the IDF had uncovered 28 tunnel systems and over 60 tunnel openings since the beginning of the operation.\n\nThe IDF assassinated Mahmoud Awad Ali Ziadeh, a senior Islamic Jihad commander, in an attack on his home in the Jabaliya Camp. Ziadeh had served as a battalion commander in Islamic Jihad's northern Gaza Strip brigade.\n\nA force of IDF paratroopers was attacked after entering a booby trapped house in Khan Yunis. Hamas operatives detonated the explosives that the house was rigged with, collapsing portions of the building, and opening fire. Three soldiers were killed, and a fourth was fatally wounded and died of his injuries on 31 August.\n\nDuring the night, 150 Palestinian militants, mostly Hamas operatives, were taken prisoner in raids in Khan Yunis and Rafah. Of them, 70 who were suspected of involvement in terror attacks were transferred to military intelligence and Shin Bet facilities for interrogation, while the remainder were later released. The IDF announced that it had killed 15 militants within the past 24 hours.\n\nAn UNRWA school in Beit Hanoun, being used as a shelter, was struck resulting in 11 being killed, including 7 children and two women, and UN staff, and some 110 civilians, including 55 children and 31 women, were wounded. While Israel has not admitted responsibility for the attack, a senior Israel military officer has admitted that the school shelling could have been caused by Israeli forces, Additionally several other Gaza rockets have landed in Beit Hanoun and the IDF has not ruled out one of these rockets landing on the school. Gaza authorities however said that the school was shelled by Israeli forces. Both the UN and Fatah stated that they were investigating the incident and was unaware of who struck the school. The school was used as a shelter, and about 800 people were inside at the time it was hit.\n\nIn the morning, Palestinian militants fired an anti-tank missile at IDF troops from Wafa Hospital. The IDF returned fire and killed two militants. A militant waiting in ambush was killed by IDF Paratroopers. During the night, an Israeli unit was engaged by Hamas fighters, and an Israeli infantry officer was fatally wounded in the firefight. He died of his injuries two days later. A grenade explosion outside of combat wounded five Israeli soldiers, one of whom also died of his injuries two days later.\n\nDuring the evening, over 10,000 Palestinians in the West Bank protested the current operation at the Qalandia border crossing, resulting in at least 2 Palestinian deaths after Al-Aqsa Brigades members opened fire on Israeli forces. This protest was the largest since the second intifada. Following these protests and several riots over the past few weeks, Hamas called for more, including a third intifada.\n\nPalestinian officials have called for 25 July to be a \"Day of Rage\" in the West Bank and within Israel. In preparation of the expected protests and riots, the IDF and police have been stationed in critical points across Israel. It was reported that 3,000–4,000 police officers would be stationed around Jerusalem.\n\nThe IDF confirmed that three soldiers were killed during fighting in Gaza. One of them was killed in the course of a failed abduction attempt during which a Palestinian militant was also killed. Two soldiers from the Nahal Brigade were wounded in battle and seven others were injured by a bomb when they entered a booby trapped house. During the night, the IDF announced that a division commander was injured when a wall collapsed in one of the tunnels. The IDF claimed that six Hamas fighters were killed by Israeli paratroopers. The Israeli Air Force, acting on intelligence from Shin Bet, assassinated Islamic Jihad operative Salah Abu Hassanein, a member of the military council of the Al-Quds Brigades and head of Islamic Jihad's information department. His two children were also killed in the attack.\n\nOverall, the Gazan death toll rose to 867. Rockets were fired at central Israel, and communities near the Gaza border continued to come under fire. One rocket was intercepted by an Iron Dome system. One person in Israel was moderately injured by a rocket.\n\nHamas claimed to have killed at least 10 Israeli soldiers in fighting in Gaza on July 25.\n\nIn the afternoon of 25 July, both Israel and Hamas stated that they were reviewing John Kerry's proposal, which would call for an immediate ceasefire followed by meetings in Cairo. Discussions would consist of:\n<br>Palestinian Demands\nIsrael announced in the evening that they had rejected the ceasefire, and would not accept any ceasefire that does not include destroying the Hamas tunnels. Israel, however, stated they would agree to a 12-hour humanitarian ceasefire in good faith.\n\nAlso on 25 July, anonymous sources within the Shin Bet claimed that the war had prevented 'a catastrophic event on an apocalyptic magnitude such as the Yom Kippur war', citing evidence said to have been uncovered of a planned September attack during Rosh Hashanah, in which 200 militants would have simultaneously infiltrated Israel through dozens of tunnels beneath Gaza, thousands of Hamas militants dressed in IDF fatigues would have swarmed over Israel to seize kibbutzim and murder or abduct as many Israeli citizens as possible. However, IDF Army Radio later quoted an unnamed \"senior military official\" as saying \"all the tunnels were aimed at military targets and not at the Gaza-vicinity communities\". In April 2015 intelligence sources stated that Mohammad Deif had planned such an operation, whose execution had been cancelled by the Hamas political leadership. Attempts by the Qassam Brigades nonetheless to conduct the operation during the war then failed, according to IDF assessments, because of the presence of large numbers of Israeli troops within the Strip.\n\nAn Israeli unit operating in Beit Hanoun, Battalion 931 of the Nahal Brigade, encountered a force of Hamas fighters and engaged them in a 17-minute battle, killing 15 Hamas fighters while losing 2 dead and 10 wounded. Another Nahal Brigade soldier was killed when an anti-tank missile struck his position in Gaza, and an Israeli Engineering Corps soldier was killed in a mortar attack on an IDF assembly zone in Israel near the Gaza border. The IDF announced that Ismail Muhammad Saad Akluk, a senior Hamas member who had been involved in Hamas' weapons development and research programs, particularly in rocket and drone production, was killed when the Israeli Air Force bombed his vehicle, acting on intelligence provided by Shin Bet.\n\nBoth Israel and Hamas agreed to a 12-hour humanitarian ceasefire from 08:00 to 20:00. Although they stated that no shots would be fired, the IDF announced that they would continue to demolish tunnels during the ceasefire. The IDF stated that by the end of the ceasefire, only 9 rockets had been shot at Israel so far on 26 July, all before the ceasefire started.\n\nJust prior to the expiration of the 12 hour ceasefire, Israel agreed to another four-hour extension of the ceasefire. Hamas, however, rejected the extension, and began firing rockets into Israel again, though Israel did not retaliate.\n\nThe Palestinian death toll rose above 1,000 as 150 bodies were found during the ceasefire. Additionally, the IDF death toll reached 42 after 2 soldiers who were previously injured died from their wounds. It was also determined that the Oron Shaul had been killed in action, though his body remained missing and was presumably in the hands of Hamas.\n\nThe four-hour ceasefire extension ended at midnight, and, despite the continued rocket fire from Gaza, Israel agreed to an additional ceasefire throughout all of 27 July; however, Hamas rejected it. Hamas stated that they would not agree to any ceasefire that does not include a pullout of IDF troops.\n\nSeveral hours after Israel respected UN's call to continue the humanitarian ceasefire, Hamas began firing a heavy barrage of rockets which was intercepted by the Iron Dome; in response, the IDF resumed attacks on military targets in Gaza.\nLater, Hamas requested another 24-hour ceasefire via the UN, but continued firing and took responsibility for the attacks.\n\nAs Israel continued the demolition of tunnels between Gaza and Israel, Egypt announced that they had destroyed 13 tunnels connecting Gaza to Egypt, bringing the total number of tunnels destroyed on the Egyptian border to 1,639.\n\nIsrael's Health Ministry offered humanitarian aid which included medical equipment and blood donations worth millions of shekels to the Gaza Strip, but the Palestinian Authority refused to accept it.\n\nThe IDF later announced that they had concluded their investigation into the UNRWA deaths. They stated that one mortar bomb had landed in a courtyard of the school but caused no injuries, and that the damage that caused the casualties was not caused by the IDF. The UN stated that they will be conducting their own investigation as well.\n\nThat afternoon, Israel announced for the second time in three weeks that a car bombing had been thwarted. The car contained electrically connected gas canisters, a pipe bomb, and a switch.\n\nIn the evening, Barack Obama called Netanyahu and reaffirmed his support for Israel's right to defend itself against rockets and tunnels, but expressed concern about the civilian death toll in Gaza. Obama called for a disarmed and demilitarized Gaza in any ceasefire proposal.\n\nDespite the unified Palestinian government, Fatah spoke out during the night against Hamas and their recent arrests of Fatah members within Gaza.\n\nAt 07:00, the United Nations Security Council held an emergency meeting to issue a statement calling for both sides to have an immediate and indefinite humanitarian ceasefire. The statement did not mention Hamas or Israel; instead, it only referenced the conflict in Gaza and requested that Egypt mediate a permanent ceasefire.\n\nIn the afternoon, there were reports of an explosion at the Al-Shifa Hospital that resulted in dozens of injuries. Initial reports from Gaza stated the Israeli F-16 planes fired missiles at the hospital, but Israel stated that they believed the explosion was caused when militants attempted to fire a Fajr-5 rocket at Tel Aviv and it malfunctioned and exploded. Hamas stated that neither they nor the PIJ had anything to do with the explosion.\n\nIn the evening, several Hamas members infiltrated Israel through a tunnel and attacked an IDF base near Nahal Oz. According to the IDF, five soldiers and at least one of the infiltrators were killed, and the rest of the infiltrators escaped. The infiltrators attempted unsuccessfully to take an IDF soldier's body back with them. Hamas claimed that the infiltrators killed 10 IDF soldiers and all returned safely.\n\nIn a separate incident, four IDF soldiers of the 7th Armored Brigade were killed by Hamas mortar fire toward Israel's Eshkol region. Shortly afterward, the IDF warned via text messages and phone calls the residents of Jabalia, Zeitoun and Shejaiya to evacuate their homes. Soon after the warnings, Zeitoun and Jabalia came under fire by the IDF. The IDF later extended the evacuation warnings to Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya.\n\nIn Gaza, an Israeli soldier was killed when an anti-tank rocket hit the D9 armored bulldozer he was driving. The militant squad that fired the RPG then withdrew into a nearby building that was then demolished by an IDF bulldozer, killing eight militants. Two others were found alive and taken prisoner by Givati Brigade troops.\n\nHamas said that its fighters managed to kill 19 Israeli soldiers on Monday alone in three separate attacks. \"Ten were killed in a behind-enemy-lines operation in eastern Gaza City, six killed in mortar attack on Israeli troops in eastern Khan Younis, and two in clashes in northern Gaza Strip,\" the group said.\n\nIsrael criticized John Kerry's proposed ceasefire, stating that it favors Hamas and its continuity. Furthermore, Israel informed other nations that no ceasefire deal will be accepted without the destruction of the tunnels leading from Gaza to Israel and the demilitarization of the Gaza Strip.\n\nShortly after midnight, France announced that it had agreed to transfer 8 million Euros to Gaza in aid. In Israel, Guy Meroz reported that Israeli supermarket magnate Rami Levy was providing food to the families of Israeli soldiers who were killed in action.\n\nOvernight, over 100 were killed in Gaza. Israel targeted 70 locations within Gaza, including the home of a senior political leader of Hamas, Ismail Haniyeh. Additionally, Israeli forces targeted the building containing Hamas' media offices for Al-Aqsa TV and radio. The PIJ announced that Ahmed Najam Abu Hamda, the commander of its forces in Rafah, was one of 32 killed by Israel overnight. Fuel tanks located outside the only Gazan power plant were also struck overnight, causing massive blackouts across Gaza.\n\nIn Rafah, Israeli Givati Brigade troops of the Sayeret Rimon commando unit who were serving as lookouts for other Israeli troops on an anti-tunnel mission were attacked by a squad of five Hamas fighters while positioned in a building. All five of the militants were killed. Four were killed by a single Israeli soldier who ignored his commander's order to take cover and returned fire, and the fifth was killed by another soldier after running to a nearby mosque.\n\nIn the early evening, a squad of five Hamas fighters infiltrated into Israel from a tunnel in the southern Gaza Strip. IDF Givati Brigade troops identified them as they emerged from the tunnel and killed all five without sustaining any casualties. A subsequent search of the tunnel shaft from which they had emerged uncovered numerous weapons. The militants were carrying a large amount of explosives and weapons for what the IDF believed was for a suicide mission.\n\nIn the early morning, it was announced that Egypt agreed to have Hamas and PIJ representatives be part of the Palestinian delegation set to meet on 29 July in Cairo. In the afternoon, the PLO said that a 3-day unilateral ceasefire would be announced shortly. Hamas however rejected the ceasefire. Later in the evening, it was again announced that all sides had agreed to a ceasefire, though no official word was given.\n\nWaddah Abu Amer, a political leader of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP), his wife, and five children were killed when the army fired a missile into their home in Khan Younis.\n\nAs of 29 July 200,000 of Gaza's 1.6 million residents were seeking shelter in UNRWA schools. Additionally 1,190 Palestinians have been killed through 22 days of the conflict.\n\nDuring the night, the PIJ stated that no Palestinian group had been formally invited to Egypt to discuss a ceasefire.\n\nA UNRWA school was once again hit overnight resulting in 19 Palestinian deaths. Israel admitted that one of their rockets hit the school when they were returning fire after being shot at from the vicinity of the school.\n\nIsrael agreed to a four-hour humanitarian ceasefire from 15:00 to 19:00, however stated that it did not apply to areas they were currently operating in, and residents were requested to not return home. Hamas rejected the ceasefire, calling it a media stunt by Israel.\n\nThe IDF announced that nine militants were killed in clashes with IDF troops throughout the day. Three IDF soldiers from the Maglan commando unit were killed and fifteen wounded after entering an explosives-rigged building near Khan Yunis that was subsequently blown up on top of them. The building, which was allegedly a UNRWA health clinic, had an entry shaft to a tunnel the soldiers were sent in to eliminate. IDF soldiers evacuating the casualties were fired on by Palestinian militants. UNRWA later announced that this building was not their property and they did not have a health center at this location. Hamas claimed that at least 15 Israeli soldiers were killed in this attack.\n\nThe US announced that they agreed to transfer a number of arms to Israel, including rocket launchers, mortar rounds, grenades and other arms. For many years, the US has stored weapons in Israel for their use, under the War Reserves Stock Allies-Israel program, however they have agreed to transfer these to Israel for their use.\n\nIn the early morning the IDF the call-up of an additional 18,000 reservists, bring the total to 84,000.\n\nFive Israeli soldiers of the 188th Armored Brigade were killed in a mortar attack on their position in Israel's Eshkol Regional Council, near the border with Gaza. Three other soldiers were wounded by sniper fire in Gaza. There were a number of clashes between the IDF and militants in Gaza, including one where Golani Brigade troops killed an armed Palestinian emerging from a tunnel and another where a paratrooper squad identified about five militants and called in an airstrike which killed them. A total of 15 Palestinian militants were killed. According to Magen David Adom, 26 people were injured by rocket fire, most of them suffering from shock. A man was seriously injured in Kiryat Gat by shrapnel after a rocket was intercepted over the city, and two soldiers were injured by rocket fire in Sderot.\n\nThe Palestinian Authority announced that it plans to sue Israel in the International Criminal Court for war crimes. The PA chose to join the ICC and sue Israel despite the risk of knowing it can be sued back by Israel.\n\nIsrael and Hamas agreed to a 72-hour humanitarian cease-fire set to begin on 1 August at 08:00. The United States Secretary of State, John Kerry, stated \"this is a respite. It is a moment of opportunity, not an end.\" Furthermore, Netanyahu, stated that Israel will continue to destroy Hamas' tunnel network with or without a ceasefire. Delegates from Israel, the US, the UN, and other parties have agreed to meet in Cairo to discuss terms during the ceasefire. Hamas would be represented, though Israel and the US would not negotiate with Hamas given their terrorist classification. Egypt will be the mediator between the two allies and Hamas.\n\nThe cease-fire comes after the death toll in Gaza rose to at least 1,441, surpassing the casualties of the Gaza War that occurred in late 2008 through early 2009.\n\nHours before the 72-hour ceasefire was announced, US Secretary of State John Kerry announced that \"... Israel will be able to continue its defensive operations that are behind its lines, and Palestinians will be able to receive food, medicine and additional humanitarian assistance.\"\n\nOvernight 29 July–August 1, Israel and Hamas agreed to a 3-day ceasefire, to come into force at 08:00hrs. Forces were to remain in place. Israel declared it would continue search and destroy operations on tunnels within its lines: Hamas agreed not to fire over the border, but said it would not tolerate continued operations against their tunnels during the period.\n\nHamas fighters emerged from a tunnel in Rafah and attacked an Israeli reconnaissance unit of the Givati Brigade. A suicide bomber exploded among the soldiers while gunmen exchanged fire with them. Three Israeli soldiers were killed, including the reconnaissance unit's commander and his radio operator. Hamas fighters managed to seize the body of one of the soldiers, Second Lieutenant Hadar Goldin, before escaping. A Hamas fighter wearing an Israeli uniform was also reportedly killed in the clash. According to the IDF, the unit was attacked 90 minutes after the ceasefire came into effect. Israel adopted the Hannibal Protocol. Colonel Ofer Winter, the commander of the Givati Brigade, on the night the ceasefire was brokered, ordered a search and destroy operation for a suspected tunnel or related infrastructure 2 km northwest of Israel's border, in an area Israel had earlier searched and then withdrawn from. At the time of the brokered ceasefire it lay beyond Israel's lines. The orders foresaw making \"a big boom before the ceasefire” came into effect. At 07:30 am, Hamas's military wing tweeted that battles were taking place in east Rafah, causing casualties for the IDF. Palestinian casualties started arriving at the al-Najjar hospital by 08:00 am, and Hamas declared it had captured a Lieutenant Hadar Goldin. After 08:00 Palestinians, hearing of the ceasefire, began to return to their homes in the area. No warning was given to Rafah residents: for three hours, massive firepower was trained on the area. The IDF fired around 800 artillery shells and 260 mortar shells, while combat planes bombed about 20 targets and combat helicopters bombed another 14. By day's end, the munitions expended had reached 2,000. Bulldozers flattened houses in which people were hiding. Cars in which Palestinians tried to flee were shot at. Survivors described jets, drones, helicopters and artillery raining fire at pedestrians and vehicles, including ambulances either returning for the ceasefire or fleeing the renewed onslaught. According to Palestinian sources, about 130 Palestinians were killed and hundreds wounded. An IDF investigation concluded that 42 Palestinian militants and 72 civilians were killed in the bombardment. Throughout the day,Israel kept up fire on the al-Najjar hospital and its vicinity, causing further casualties, and it had to be evacuated when the fire became too intense, at 15:30 pm.\n\nThe White House Press Secretary, Josh Earnest called the capture of the IDF soldier a barbaric violation of the ceasefire. The US Deputy National Security Advisor, Tony Blinken also commented calling the capture outrageous and demanding the immediate return of the soldier. John Kerry called the incident outrageous and called for the immediate and unconditional release of the soldier. Ban Ki-moon stated that he placed full blame for the truce violations on Hamas and ordered the immediate release of Goldin. Canada's Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird called the capture and breaking of the ceasefire \"disgraceful and repugnant\" and stated that Hamas has lost all credibility. Turkey Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu stated that although a ceasefire is the number one priority they are willing to help Israel in any way they can find Goldin.\n\nAt around 10:00 at least 15 Hamas rockets were fired from Gaza, seven reportedly intercepted by Iron Dome. Otherwise, Hamas did not engaged in any further combat clashes with the Israeli forces that day in Rafah. By day's end 2,201 houses were destroyed or damaged.\n\nAt around 02:30 A.M. Hamas military wing, Qassam Brigades, denied holding Hadar Goldin. It also acknowledged that it had lost contact soon after the firefight with group that was thought to have clashed with Goldin and the other soldiers. It presumed that Goldin and the militant squad which had taken him were all killed by Israeli airstrikes and artillery fire. That morning Israeli forensic investigators concluded Goldin had died the day before. Israel continued through to 3 August to lay waste greenhouses, homes, fields and orchards, turning the outskirts of Rafah into a wasteland.\n\nAccording to officials within the Gaza Health Ministry, the intense bombardment in the area where Goldin was thought to have been abducted, caused at least 112 Palestinian casualties.\n\nAs morning unfolded on the 27th day of the conflict, Israel targeted Gaza as air raids and tank shelling resumed in the southern and central part of Gaza. At least 13 Palestinians have been reported killed in the ongoing raids, and many are still missing.\n\nAt around 09:30-10:00 The Al-Zafer 9 tower, and many other buildings in central Gaza was subject to heavy Israeli fire.\n\nAl-Aqsa TV initially reports that at around 11:00 a UN school in Rafah is under Israeli fire. Various reports, including reports from the Palestinian health ministry have reported that at least seven people were killed in the attack and more than 30 injured. Latest reports suggest that \"...an explosion just outside the school gates.\", were witnessed at around 10:30 Further reports suggest that \"... It was not immediately clear whether the strike was the result of Israeli or Palestinian fire.\" Israel released a statement, stating Israeli military surveillance video showed that the IDF had targeted three militants who were near the school on a motorcycle. The IDF is still investigating the incident further. The death toll in Gaza topped 1,800.\n\nIt has been determined by the IDF that 2nd Lt. Hadar Goldin was killed in action, after Israel employed its \"Hannibal Directive,\" which dictates that Israel bombard the area where the soldier was taken captive, even at the risk of the soldier, in order to ensure that he is not taken captive into enemy territory. Also, the IDF is reportedly finishing its destruction of the dozens of tunnels it has discovered, however Netanyahu has declared that Israel's operation in Gaza to restore security will continue, and made it clear that Israel will not negotiate ceasefires with Hamas due to the latest, of many breaches, in the ceasefires. Consequently, Israel will withdraw its forces when it deems security has been restored.\n\nAhmad al-Mabhouh, a Hamas commander who was an engineering and sabotage expert in a Hamas unit in the Jabaliya refugee camp, was killed in an Israeli airstrike based on intelligence provided by Shin Bet. Mabhouh, who was a nephew of Hamas commander Mahmoud al-Mabhouh, had participated in rocket attacks on Israel and the preparation of complex explosive charges to be used by Hamas. Four other militants were killed when the building they were positioned in was shelled by the IDF and collapsed. Givati Brigade soldiers discovered and seized quantities of weapons and munitions, and discovered the entrance to a tunnel. Three militants were spotted emerging from the tunnel, and fled under heavy IDF shelling to a nearby home. All three were killed when the home was shelled. The tunnel was subsequently destroyed. Palestinian militants fired at least 119 rockets at Israel throughout the day, eight of which were shot down by the Iron Dome.\n\nThe IDF began redeploying ground forces, including the removal of many of their forces, however Israel Cabinet Minister, Amir Peretz, clarified, saying, \"It's not a withdrawal. It's setting up a new line that is a more controlled line with the air force doing its work.\"\n\nIsrael declared a seven-hour humanitarian ceasefire, except for Rafah, starting from 10:00-17:00 to allow aid for civilians. A few hours before the ceasefire was due to start, an Israeli airstrike killed senior Islamic Jihad commander Danial Mansour in northern Gaza, and rocket fire from Gaza continued to hit Israel. the IDF stated this occurred just prior to 10:00. According to news reporters, just 6 minutes after the beginning the ceasefire, an ASM missile was fired at a three-story house in the Shati refugee camp, killing a Palestinian eight-year-old girl.\n\nIn the early afternoon, a man named Mohammad Jabbis, in downtown Jerusalem, driving an industrial digger, hit a pedestrian, bus, and car; before the driver was shot and killed by police. The victim, a 25-year-old male, died after resuscitation attempts failed. The bus was empty at the time of the incident minimizing the casualties. Israel later announced that the tractor driver's cousin's house was destroyed by the IDF two weeks ago, and this is believed to be a revenge attack.\n\nAt approximately 16:00 an IDF soldier was shot in the stomach just outside Mount Scopus at Hebrew University. After the soldier was shot, the shooter jumped on his motorcycle heading toward the Arab village of Wadi al-Joz.\n\nIn the late evening it was announced that once again both Hamas and Israel has agreed to a 72-hour ceasefire. Netanyahu has previously stated he wouldn't explore a ceasefire until the tunnels were all destroyed, which was finishing earlier on 4 August.\n\nShortly after midnight, hours before the ceasefire, Obama signed \"The Iron Dome Bill\" providing $225 million in additional funding for the Iron Dome.\n\nIn the early afternoon a security guard was stabbed at the entrance to Ma'ale Adumim. The security guard then opened fire on the stabber who was able to flee on foot toward Kfar Azaria.\n\nAs day 29 ended, both sides had thus far held their fire, and both sides has representation in Cairo to discuss a more permanent truce.\n\nAfter 30 hours of silence in southern Israel, false alarm sirens rang out along the Gaza border.\n\nIn the evening Egypt proposed an extension of the cease fire from Friday morning until Sunday morning. Israel later announced that they accepted the extension.\nHamas later responded by saying there was no agreement to extend the ceasefire and would renew fire if their demands were not met.\n\nAs permanent ceasefire talk progresses, the main separation point holds with Hamas demanding the lifting of the blockade, with Israel demanding Hamas demilitarization. Israel has agreed that it will release the blockade and expand the Gaza fishing zone, on the condition that all the groups in Gaza demilitarize.\n\nIn the evening it was announced that the body of Ayman Taha, a Hamas official, was found in Shuja'iyya ruins. It is believed that he was executed for spying for Egypt. Additionally Hamas admitted that a number of collaborators with Israel have been executed.\n\nAn armed Palestinian man on a bus, who was in the country illegally, was arrested in Beit Shemesh.\n\nAmid the stalemate regarding the negotiations in Cairo, hours before the end of the 72-hour cease-fire, Israel announced fire from southern Gaza into Israel resumed, however Hamas denied it. At 04:02, rocket sirens sounded in southern Israel, and at 04:35, mortar rounds landed in southern Israel as well. No injuries were reported.\n\nAt 08:00, at the end of the ceasefire, rockets from Gaza were fired at Ashkelon, with one rocket downed by the Iron Dome. Within the first few hours after the ceasefire's end, over 35 rockets were fired from Gaza at Israel, resulting in two injuries.\n\nAfter several hours of rocket fire, Netanyahu ordered Israel to respond and resume targeted strikes in Gaza. Israel announced that their troops were still positioned along the Gaza border, and are prepared for any necessary action.\n\nThe Israeli delegation left Cairo, stating they will not negotiate any long term ceasefire while under fire.\n\nThe IDF stated that since resuming fighting, over 57 rockets were fired from Gaza, and the IDF struck 51 targets in Gaza.\n\nSenior Hamas official Moaaz Zaid was killed when an airstrike hit a mosque in Gaza. Two other Hamas operatives were killed in an airstrike on the motorcycle they were riding in the Maghazi refugee camp. The IDF claimed to have attacked 60 targets and killed nine militants in targeted killings. Two Hamas operatives were killed in fighting with the IDF in Al-Qarara when they emerged from a tunnel and attacked an Israeli tank.\n\nOver 30 rockets were fired at Israel, and 49 targets were struck in Gaza.\n\nAfter Israel has previously stated they will not negotiate while under rocket fire, Hamas and the PIJ stated they would leave Cairo on 10 August if Israel did not attend negotiations. Later it was announced that Israel and the Palestinian factions accepted a three-day ceasefire, beginning midnight.\n\nIn the afternoon, the Kerem Shalom border crossing was closed, due to rocket fire landing in the area, for the protection of the workers. Much of the food and aid that enters Gaza goes through this crossing, and were unable to be transferred during that time. Later, the IDF discovered and attacked six militants attempting to use the crossing to enter Israel, killing all of them.\n\nTurkey announced in the evening that they would utilize the 72 hour ceasefire to evacuate wounded Palestinians to their hospitals.\n\nBefore midnight, as in the other ceasefire, both sides took final shots at each other. Israel successfully targeted Faraj Abu Raviah, who was active in the tunnel network of northern Gaza Strip, while in a tunnel in Gaza. A series of rockets was fired from Gaza at various locations around Israel, including Eshkol, Ashdod, Gush Dan, and Tel Aviv.\n\nIn the morning, as the ceasefire appeared to hold, Egypt's foreign ministry announced that they opened the Rafah border crossing to allow aid into Gaza, although some Gaza residents claimed the crossing was still closed. Hamas official Izzat al-Risheq, a member of the Hamas negotiating team in Cairo, announced that Hamas does not object to Fatah policemen manning the Rafah crossing.\n\nIn the afternoon, the UN announced a fact finding mission, whose members will be William Schabas, Amal Clooney and Doudou Diène. Later, Clooney turned down the offer, due to other commitments. Israel claimed that the committee, and particularly the chairman Schabas, is biased against Israel, pointing to previous comments by Schabas, including calls for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to be tried before the International Criminal Court. Israel referred to the inquiry as a kangaroo court. Canadian Foreign Minister John Baird called the UN Human Rights Council a \"sham\" for appointing the committee, and said the committee is a \"shame\" and will do nothing to promote peace.\n\nThe Turkish Humanitarian Relief Foundation (IHH) announced a new attempt to breach the Israeli naval blockade of Gaza.\n\nAs talks in Cairo continued, varying reports stated the progress were being made toward a long term ceasefire, although Israel still did not agree to building a seaport or an airport in Gaza.\n\nHamas claimed that the Israeli Navy violated the ceasefire and fired at Gaza. Israel maintains that a fishing boat attempted to leave the permitted fishing zone, and that the Navy then fired warning shots at the boat.\n\nDuring the night, the UK announced that if the fighting in Gaza continued after the ceasefire, they would suspend their military sales to Israel, while investigating whether they have been used properly.\n\nIn the late morning, Al-Aqsa radio again reported that Israel was in violation of the ceasefire, by firing on Beit Lahiya. Later reports from Gaza medical facilities corrected the earlier reports, stating 6 were killed in an attempt to disable Israeli missiles that had not exploded. Two journalists were killed in Beit Lahiya along with three Hamas police engineers and three other people by an unexploded Israeli bomb that detonated as a police engineering team was working to neutralize it. The two journalists, who had been reporting on the efforts to defuse the bomb, were Simone Camilli, an Italian video journalist working for the Associated Press, and Ali Shehda Abu Afash, a Palestinian journalist who had been working with Camilli.\n\nHamas originally scheduled a press conference for 21:30, when they were expected to announce that the ceasefire talks failed. Israel however has agreed to extend the ceasefire an additional 72 hours. At 21:45, few hours prior to the end of the ceasefire, sirens were heard in Ashkelon, in which the rocket landed in an open area. Israeli police later confirmed that an additional rocket from Gaza landed in Sha'ar HaNegev. Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri denied any rocket fire.\n\nThe Palestinian factions, shortly before the ceasefire expired, announced the extension of the ceasefire by five days. Despite the ceasefire extension announcement, shortly before midnight the Iron Dome intercepted a rocket over Netivot, while two more landed in open areas.\n\nDuring the night, despite the ceasefire still in affect, Netanyahu ordered the IDF to retaliate for the rocket fire. Israel struck four targets in Gaza, followed by two more rockets fired from Gaza into Israel.\n\nThe US confirmed that it has suspended the sale of Hellfire Missiles to Israel due to the current conflict.\n\nPIJ officer Ziad al-Nakhaleh stated that even if a lasting agreement isn't achieved by Monday, the ceasefire will continue, in addition to confirming that the seaport and airport talks have been postponed.\n\nA report by al-Shorouk stated that the 11 terms of the ceasefire are:\n\n\nPalestinians in Cairo tell Israel to meet their demands or \"face a long war.\" Israeli officials stated that if talks in Cairo fail, it will be up to the UN Security Council to negotiate a truce.\n\nIsrael responded to Palestinian demands by saying that no demands will be met without security being guaranteed in Israel, including the demilitarization of Gaza. As a sign of good faith, Israel removed the fishing blockade and allowed Gazan fishermen to fish up to the three miles out.\n\nIn the evening, as the five-day ceasefire neared an end, Netanyahu stated that they are prepared for any scenario in Gaza. In preparation for possible restart of violence, the train to Sderot was canceled, so they could be fortified to protect against anti-tank missile attacks on them.\n\nIsrael arrested 93 Hamas activists, who planned a third intifada and overthrowing the PA, according to Shin Bet.\n\nLater in the evening, reports began circulating that Israel and the Palestinian factions have agreed to a long term ceasefire, which would be signed and announced at 23:00. The Palestinians later confirmed they have accepted the ceasefire.\n\nOvernight news leaked that the US and Israel came to an agreement over the blockade of Gaza. Israel agreed to ease the blockade and in exchange, the US will use their international influence to prevent Hamas from rearming.\n\nIn the afternoon, shortly before 16:00, three rockets fired from Gaza exploded outside of Be'er Sheva, breaking the ceasefire with the first action by either side in nearly 6 days. Shortly before the rocket fire, Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum stated \"If Netanyahu doesn’t understand … the language of politics in Cairo, we know how to make him understand,\" possibly hinting at the rocket fire, although Hamas denied involvement in the rocket fire. Netanyahu ordered the IDF to retaliate against the renewed fire, and ordered the negotiators to return from Cairo due to the violations.\n\nAt about 18:30 the Iron Dome intercepted two rockets over Netivot, its first interception in over a week. Later, two rockets were shot down over Sderot and another two over Be'er Sheva, as well as several fired at Tel Aviv, which Hamas took credit for.\n\nHamas announced that they blame Israel for the ending of the ceasefire. The US however has stated that they hold Hamas responsible for breaking the ceasefire and reiterated Israel's right to defend itself. According to a senior Fatah official Qatar threatened Hamas' political bureau chief Khaled Mashal that it would expel him if Hamas accepts the Egyptian ceasefire deal.\n\nIsrael attempted to assassinate the chief commander of Hamas' military wing, Mohammad Deif, in an airstrike on his house in the Sheikh Radwan district of Gaza City, killing his wife and two children. Israeli intelligence concluded in April 2015 that Deif had survived the assassination attempt, the fifth Israeli attempt to assassinate him.\n\nIn total 50 rockets were fired from Gaza at Israel, and Israel struck 30 targets in Gaza, on 19 August.\n\nIn the morning, reports leaked that Qatar threatened to expel Khaled Mashaal if Hamas accepted the Egyptian ceasefire.\n\nHamas threatened to fire additional rockets at Ben Gurion on 21 August as 06:00. Their warning stated that all airlines should cancel their flights.\n\nOn 20 August from Gaza 168 rockets were fired at Israel, a record since the operation began, accounting for over 200 rockets since the conflict resumed. In response, Israel carried out 92 attacks into Gaza.\n\nIn the morning the IDF killed three Hamas commanders in an airstrike:\nAll three were also heavy involved with the cross-border tunnels. Attar and Abu Shamaleh were also believed to have been involved in the attack in which Hadar Goldin was killed and his body seized. Hamas said that Israel would not break their resistance, and would pay a heavy price for their crimes.\n\nThe IDF in the afternoon called up 10,000 reservists.\nHamas killed 3 Palestinians and seven were arrested.\n\nIn the morning Hamas shot dead 11 Palestinians it suspected of being informants for Israel at an abandoned police station, and another seven near a mosque. Hamas warned that others would soon be killed.\n\nShooting in the south continued. A Grad rocket fired from Gaza hit a synagogue in Ashdod, injuring three civilians In the afternoon Grad rockets were fired toward Gush Dan. In Sha'ar Hanegev a 4 year old Israeli child was killed in a mortar attack on kibbutz Nahal Oz. The Israeli Prime Minister said that military operations would intensify in response. At least 130 rockets were reported to have been fired, of which some were intercepted; others caused some damage and injuries. A rocket attack on Gan Yavne fatally wounded an IDF soldier who was on home leave from his unit after having served in the war. He died of his injuries a week later. Five others were also injured in the attack, including the soldier's younger brother. The IDF initially carried out about 30 airstrikes in Gaza, killing seven people according to the Gaza Health Ministry. Later, an Israeli airstrike destroyed a building in Gaza. The Palestinians reported at least 12 dead and dozens wounded. It was reported that 20 militants were killed and 50 wounded in the attack.\n\nIn the early afternoon the IDF stated that more than 100 rockets and mortars were fired into Israel since midnight.\n\nHamas killed four more Palestinians for collaborating with Israel, saying that they had been tried based on evidence. An aid to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas condemned the executions as \"provocative,\" illegal, and without a fair trial. Amnesty International said \"Hamas must also remember that the right to a fair trial before a competent court remains in force during times of armed conflict\".\n\nAn apartment complex, known as Al Zafer Tower 4, collapsed after an Israeli strike which was preceded by roof knocking to warn the residents. According to the IDF, the building was used as one of the headquarters for Hamas.\n\nAn unnamed Israeli army intelligence officer said that Hamas had over 2,000 short-range rockets and many dozens of mid-range rockets left, less than 30% of those they had before the operation started.\n\nIsrael assassinated senior Hamas official Mohammed al-Ghoul, who was Hamas' payroll head, in an airstrike on his car in northern Gaza. He had just taken $13 million from a contact who had smuggled it into Gaza from the Sinai which was to be used to pay the salaries of Hamas fighters. The cash he had taken was destroyed, which severely impacted Hamas' ability to pay salaries.\n\nIn the afternoon a mortar wounded three Israeli Arabs who worked as taxi drivers tasked with taking a group of Gazans from the crossing into Israel for medical care. About 135 rockets and mortar shells were fired on 24 August; five fell in built-up areas, ten were intercepted, and the remainder exploded in Israeli territory.\n\nFive rockets from south Lebanon were fired into northern Israel early in the morning, the Lebanese Army later located the launcher used. The rockets caused an electrical power failure and injuries in two kids. Israel did not return fire but appealed to the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon to investigate.\n\nFive rockets were fired from Syria into the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights. The IDF later assessed that rocket fire was unintentional and was a stray rocket from the Syrian Civil War.\n\nThe Israeli Prime Minister said \"I call on the inhabitants of Gaza to vacate immediately every site from which Hamas is carrying out terrorist activity. Every one of these places is a target for us.\"\n\nIn the early morning hours news began to leak of Abbas's new plan for an independent Palestinian state, which would be announced on 26 August. In the first stage of the plan, Abbas would request from the UN a deadline for Israeli withdrawal to the 1967 borders. The response from the Israeli Prime Minister's office indicated that Israel would oppose a withdrawal\n\nHamas, one day after Iran claimed it down an Israeli drone, claimed it as well had downed an Israeli drone over Gaza.\n\nIn the afternoon, according to an unnamed Palestinian source said to be familiar with the issue, the Palestinian factions would agree to a monthlong ceasefire proposed by Egypt in order to restart truce talks in Cairo. Egyptian mediators were awaiting Israeli approval before formally announcing the plan on Monday evening\n\nHamas POWs interrogated by the IDF revealed that Hamas does in fact use mosques in Gaza for military operations. They also revealed that their tunnels were strategically built near kindergartens and clinics.\n\nIn the late evening, a rocket once again was fired from Lebanon into Israel, landing in the Upper Galilee. The IDF returned fire toward the source of the rocket launch.\n\nMore than 120 rockets and mortars have been fired from the Gaza Strip.\n\nGazan sources reported that overnight Israel struck a 13-story building in Gaza known as the Italian Tower, after firing three warning shots into the building, which contained a mix of residences, offices (including the Ministry of Public Works), and retail stores. Two were reported killed, about 20 injured, and most of the complex was destroyed. Hamas fired at sick Gazans as they tried to leave the Strip for treatment Three Salafist militants in Rafah were killed in an Israeli airstrike as they fired rockets at Israel.\n\nThe head of the Palestinian delegation to the Cairo cease-fire talks, said that difference of opinion among different Palestinian groups was delaying an agreement. Hamas stated that the wording in the new Egyptian ceasefire proposal was acceptable to them, stating \"we’re prepared to discuss at a later stage the various controversial issues: the sea port, the prisoners and the airport, what’s important at this stage is ending the Israeli aggression, opening the crossings and rebuilding the Strip.\" In hopes to restart future peace talks, the US sent Marine Corps general John Allen to Israel as a negotiator.\n\nDuring the day rockets hit a house and kindergarten playground. Two Israeli civilians were killed and four were injured in a mortar attack on kibbutz Nirim. A border crossing used by Gazans seeking medical treatment in Israel, among others, was under frequent rocket fire. Power lines were damaged in the Eshkol Region.\n\nHamas, and Islamic Jihad accepted an Egyptian ceasefire draft at 19:00 for a month. Hamas claimed it was accepted by both sides, and that they were waiting for a Cairo to determine the zero hour for implementation. Israel approves the ceasefire. The ceasefire was infringed. Egypt agreed to open the Israel–Gaza barrier.\n\nIt was reported that the cease-fire accepted by Netanyahu without cabinet voted, therefore Bennett calls for vote on Gaza ceasefire.\n\nIn Gaza Hamas said in a news conference that they declared victory, and television showed Palestinians celebrating in the streets, with some waving the Hamas flag and others waving the Palestinian Authority flag. The truce came into effect at 19:00 on 26 August; in the previous day over 182 rockets and mortar bombs were fired at Israel, 143 of them falling in open areas and five in residential areas, while 27 were intercepted. Since the collapse of a ceasefire the week before, over 1,045 rockets and mortars were fired at Israel, 141 of which were intercepted.\n\n, when a month-long ceasefire was agreed, nearly 2,000 people had been killed in Gaza, and 69 Israelis. It was estimated that reconstruction in the Gaza Strip after damage suffered in this conflict would take 10 years. After Hamas had declared victory, Israeli sources said that the IDF had struck 5,200 \"terror targets\" in Gaza and killed 1,000 \"terrorists\", that Hamas had received \"the worst blow in its history\", and that over 4,500 rockets had been fired into Israel. The UN estimated that at least 100,000 Gazans had been internally displaced following Operation Protective Edge. Ceasefires for a few hours or days had been agreed previously, but were either broken, or fighting continued after their expiry.\n\nAfter the first comments of Netanyahu on August, opinions differ. Hamas wants to persuade the Gazans that it has won a victory, but others wonder if the costs of the battle were worth it.\n\nThe cost of the war was economically and socially expensive as the Governor Karnit Flug states that she agrees with an increase the budget deficit for 2015 from 2.5% to 3% provided it stems from one-time requirements for covering the costs of Operation Protective Edge and its results.\nSome will said that the war started after Israel opposed to the unity government of Palestinian Authority with Fatah and Hamas and as result, the negotiations plunged into crisis. Supposedly, those actions gave a validated to Hamas to kidnapping and kill the three teenage boys, which end, in fact, with an agreement with Hamas about casefire.\n\nOther said that Hamas is a terrorist argumentation that uses the suffer and the pain in Gaza for his own purpose. Netanyahu by himself told, all ready, that Hamas is adamantly opposed to negotiations with Israel, and that the reason why so soon, after the sign deal, they were shooting from Gaza towards Israel. Even after the fighting ends Hamas warned that this was only an interlude in Hamas' fight against Israel.\nTherefore, the agreement with Hamas let for nothing, not only Israel had loss money and lives, she also get nothing because Hamas still control in Gaza and become even stronger in Gaza. The head of the Central Committee of Netanyahu's Likud party told \"We promised the voters we would be decisive against Hamas, but when we had the chance we hesitated. It’s only a matter of time until we will have to face Hamas again.\" The fact that Netanyahu didn’t call the cabinet for a vote show that he was afraid of the opposition.\n\nNetanyahu's right flank in the government has been sharpening its knives even before the fighting with Hamas began and by the middle of the fighting, Minister Avigdor Lieberman reported to the media that Likud Yisrael Beiteinu dismantles partnership with Likud-Beiteinu. Liberman reported that \"Israel can't ensure safety of citizens in the South as long as Hamas rules Gaza\", in additional he said, \"It is impossible and forbidden to trust lowly murderers. Therefore, we are against a cease-fire that allows Hamas to rearm and wage another battle against Israel whenever it finds it comfortable...A real peace process and a strategic breakthrough will only be possible after we succeed in freeing the Middle East and the Palestinians from the threat of Hamas (and no one else will do so in our place)\" Others have sniped at Netanyahu for his handling of the crucial US-Israel relationship, \"He shouldn’t have gone into a direct confrontation with the Americans,\" Israeli Knesset member David Tzur.\n\nIn response, on 27 August, Netanyahu, in his first comments, told that Hamas was hit hard and won few concessions. He also said that the goal of the opening Operation Protective Edge was not brings down Hamas but a long-term calm and inflicting substantial damage to \"terrorist infrastructure\". Israeli officials emphasized that there were no direct talks with Hamas because the Palestinian delegation was headed by a Palestinian Authority official. Israel already open the border crossings reopen. In addition Israel prevent many attacks. A source close to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said \"not an arrangement; it is a cease-fire…a comprehensive deal will be possible only after the two sides discuss the various demands in a month's time.\" On 28 August, at the Morning Show, \"Keshet - Morning\" it was reported that Israel also respected the requests of the Arab countries which worried to citizens of Gaza.\n\nSkeptical citizens in the South said that they lost there trust in the Government. Many believe that the goods planned to enter Gaza under international supervision will fall into the hands of Hamas. Eshkol Regional Council Mayor: \"We'll see what happens in the coming days, I don't think the cease-fire will last,\" Although Netanyahu standing that Israel would not accept any further rocket fire, and if the attacks resumed, Israel would react with even more force.\n\nOn 1 September, it was reported by BBC that Israel intended to \"expropriate 4 sq km (1.5 sq miles) of Palestinian land in the occupied West Bank\". The military-run local administration said it was a response to the kidnapping and killing of three Jewish teenagers in the area in June.\n\nOn 7 July, political source warns Hamas rebuilding Gaza warfare tunnels despite the ceasefire. Lieberman response that he does not believe it is possible to demilitarize Gaza. Meantime, Mahmoud al-Zahar continues to threaten, \"If the Palestinian resistance in the West Bank held a quarter of the tools at the disposal of the resistance in Gaza – Israel would be demolished in a day.\"\n\nThe celebration took hold for two days. Two men were killed during the celebration. Abu Obeida, a spokesman for the Hamas military wing, stood over an Israeli flag as he addressed the crowd.\n\"Gaza achieved victory because it has done what major armies failed to do. It forced the enemy to retreat,\" he said. \"We must know that no voice is louder than the voice of the resistance.\"\n, \"We are here today to declare the victory of the resistance, the victory of Gaza, with the help of God, and the steadfastness of our people and the noble resistance,\" Hamas spokesman Sami Abu said in a news conference at Gaza's Shifa Hospital. Zuhri also said that their main goal is to liberating Jerusalem.\n\nAbbas associates said that the PA would take legal action against Israel in The Hague, home to the International Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice. on 1 September,\n\nIt appears that the unity government of Hamas Fatah is in crisis. There were allegations that Hamas abused Fatah members during Gaza war. They harassed, beaten and in some cases even killed Fatah members. Fatha soucre said, \"they are just closed minded, unethical racist people who discriminate against non-Hamas people\" In addition, on 1 September, Abbas told that Mashaal is a lair because Hamas worked to bring down the PA ever since its establishment. As mentioned, on 18 August Israel arrested 93 Hamas men, which tried to carry out a coup of the Palestinian Authority.\n\nAbbas was quoted as saying, \"Hamas’s goal is to destroy the West Bank and create chaos in order to stage a coup against us. Hamas wants to drive me crazy. Since the kidnapping of [IDF soldier] Gilad Schalit they have been contacting the Americans and Israelis and Europeans and others. They have been doing things behind our backs.\" He also point out about the murder of the three youths, \"When I asked Mashaal [about the murder of the three youths] he replied: ‘I don’t know.’ Then he told me, ‘I neither deny nor confirm.’ Lies and beating around the bush.\" Abbas pointed out that Saleh Arouri, later confirmed that his movement had been behind the murder of the youths.Mashaal enied the claim. After Operation Protective Edge, support for Hamas rises, 61 percent of Palestinians say they would vote for Hamas.\n\nOn 6 September, there were made first hints for the ending of the unity government. Abbas called in the media that \"We won't accept the continuation of the situation with Hamas as it is now and in this shape. There must be one authority and one regime.\" He also reported that Hamas killed 120 men who defied because the house arrest imposed on them.\nMeanwhile, U.S. opposed for Abbas’ diplomatic plan since it is a unilateral Palestinians say, Herzog asked Abbas to avoid unilateral moves at the United Nations \"that might hamper the chances for an agreement.\" Herzog added that he supports \"real negotiations based on security and the fixing of borders as a first step.\" Despite this Abbas would be expected to bring the plan for a vote in the United Nations General Assembly but in any case, the General Assembly resolutions are not binding.\n\nOn 7 September, during the speech at Arab League, Abbas interrupted after he mention the revolution made by Hamas in 2007. It reported that the session was planned to be closed to media. Hamas officials responded to Abbas's allegations by urging him to stop \"inciting\" against them. The Palestinian Ma’an News Agency reported today that in a speech given to Fatah Party on Sunday, Abbas said that the Egyptian government offer to the PA 618-square mile area of the Sinai adjacent to Gaza. Abbas rejected the offer.\n\nQatari media which knows that Qatar's support of Hamas calling Hamas' efforts a victory.\n\nOn Al-Akhbar, Lebanese media, reported as the end of the firecaese that \"Israel in shock: Intelligence failure in handling the rockets\", and other media say that Israel had caved to Hamas' demands.\n\nEgypt which has a strong opponent of the Muslim Brotherhood condemns Israeli action in Gaza but thoughts that the actions of Hamas lead for nothing, only to more pain and suffering of the citizens's Gaza, while \"The Hamas movement continues listening to voices from Qatar and Khaled Mashal who stays there and enjoys his time at the gym of one of the most luxurious hotels in Qatar\"\n\nU.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Tuesday that the United States welcomed the newly announced cease-fire. \"We strongly support today's cease-fire agreement, and call on all parties to fully and completely comply with its terms. ... We are all aware that this is an opportunity, not a certainty.\"\n\n\n"}
