{"id": "57126929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57126929", "title": "3DISCO", "text": "3DISCO\n\n3DISCO (stands for “3D imaging of solvent-cleared organs“) is histological method which make biological samples more transparent (so called “cleared”), by using series of organic solvents for matching refractive index (RI) of tissue and surrounding medium. Structures in transparent tissues can be examined by fluorescence microscopy without need for time-consuming physical sectioning and following reconstruction \"in silico\".\n\nThe method was developed by team around Ali Ertürk and Hans-Ulrich Dodt from Max-Planck-Institute in Munich primarily for clearing and imaging unsectioned mouse brain and spinal cord. Later on the method or its modifications were successfully used in many fields of biological research to image and investigate whole body of mouse, structure and function of mouse brain, stem cells, tumor tissues, developmental processes or whole human embryos.\n\nUse of organic solvents for clearing (making transparent) the tissue was first mentioned more than century ago by German anatomist Werner Spalteholz. But with some exceptions (reviewed in ) was clearing techniques for whole 20th century almost forgotten. Their renaissance came in last decade, probably thank to spread of advanced techniques of fluorescence microscopy which allow optical sectioning of the specimen (confocal, multiphoton or light sheet microscopy).\n\nOf actual clearing techniques, first used organic solvent was mixture of benzyl alcohol and benzyl benzoate (BABB). Authors used this solution to clear mouse brain, mouse embryos and whole body of \"D. melanogaster\". Main drawback of this solution is bleaching of GFP signal and insufficient clearing of highly myelinated tissue of adult animals. Therefore, many other reagents were tested with aim to find GFP compatible and more sufficient clearing. As results tetrahydrofuran (THF) and dibenzyl ether (DBE) were chosen as the best regents for clearing. Based on those findings the 3DISCO protocol was published in 2012.\n\n3DISCO protocol consists of three steps:\n\n\nThe biological samples (tissues) are heterogeneous structures consist of compounds which differ in their refractive indexes. For example, water have RI 1.33, lipids and proteins around 1.40 – 1.45. As result the light is scattered on its path through the tissue, which leads to decrease in resolution or even to disappearance of signal in samples thicker than few tents of micrometers. Series of steps including dehydration and delipidation of tissue and its subsequent incubation and imaging in medium with RI similar to imaged structures therefore decrease the scattering of light and leads to transparent sample.\n\nAfter fixation with (usually with paraformaldehyde) and eventually labeling with dyes, the samples are dehydrated via incubation in solutions with growing concentration (50%, 70%, 80% and 100% in water) of tetrahydrofurane (THF). Because its lack of reactive alcohol, aldehyde or ketone groups, THF is less reactive and preserve fluorescence better than other dehydrating solutions. After dehydration the sample is rinsed first in dichlormethane (DCM) and finally in dibenzyl ether (DBE) to match the refractive index of tissue and surrounding medium leading to transparent sample. In DBE samples are stored and imaged as well.\n\n3DISCO protocol is best suited for fixed tissues labeled with strong fluorophores, ideally transgenic models expressing fluorescent proteins such as GFP (alternatively staining with synthetic dyes is possible as well). For antibody labeling the 3DISCO method was optimized and published under name iDISCO (see below Modifications and applications).\n\nWhole process is relatively easy to perform and require just changes of given solutions with no need for some customized laboratory equipment. Process of clearing and subsequent imaging is fast (hours to days depending on sample size), especially in comparison with physical sectioning of whole organ, imaging of their parts and reconstruction before subsequent image analysis (that could easily take several weeks). Above that 3DISCO works on many types of tissues (lung, spleen, lymph nodes, mammary gland, tumors).\n\nMain drawbacks of this method are partial delipidation of tissue during clearing discriminating use of lipophilic dyes, shrinkage of tissue during clearing, partial degradation of fluorescence, complete degradation of fluorescence during long term storage and toxicity of used reagents (and their potential to damage the microscopy objectives if leak from imaging chamber).\n\nNote that this chapter illustrates development and use of solvent-based clearing methods and does not provide complete list of applications and modifications of them.\n\n3DISCO method was soon after publication adopted by other researchers and modified with aim to specific goals, like use of retrograde or antibody labeling (iDISCO), clearing whole body of mouse (uDISCO) or clearing of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples (DIPCO).\n\nAuthors of iDISCO (stands for “immunolabeling-enabled imaging of solvent-cleared organs“) included pretreatment of sample with methanol, hydrogen peroxide, detergents and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) together with antibody labeling before clearing. This preprocess overcome two drawbacks of antibody labeling of large samples. First lowering the autofluorescence of samples and enhance signal-to-noise ratio, and second make tissue more penetrable for antibodies. As result samples as large as mouse embryos or whole mouse organs can be successfully dyed with fluorescent labeled antibodies and thereafter cleared and imaged.\n\nAuthors of uDISCO (from “ultimate imaging of solvent-cleared organs“) enhance a shrinkage of tissue, a common bystander effect of dehydration of sample in first step of clearing. They used tert-butanol instead of THF for dehydration and also different solution for imaging, which preserve fluorescence better than DBE. Thank to shrinkage of the tissue, they can observe large samples up to size of whole mouse body. It is worth to mention that uDISCO was highlighted by media worldwide including New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Business Insider, Nature and Science magazines. It was also chosen as one of the top 10 scientific images of 2016 by Nature.\n\nDIPCO (from “diagnosing immunolabelled paraffin-embedded cleared organs”) is pipeline combine deparaffinization of FFPE embedded tumor specimens, iDISCO clearing and phenotyping of tumor tissue. Tumor FFPE samples are widely stored in biobanks and used for diagnostics, and their 3D analysis could potentially help to improve stratification of cancer patients.\n\nClearing methods, including 3DISCO, was mainly developed for neuroscience research first. The reason is in high morphological and functional complexity of nervous system, which investigation is time-consuming and laborious with classical histology methods. Majority of studies is therefore focused on mouse central nervous system (rodents are one of main model organisms for neurobiology). Authors of 3DISCO method used it first for studying regeneration in the central nervous system (CNS) of mouse, including counting of microglia, astrocytes and mapping trajectories of axons after injury. 3DISCO was also used for mapping the development of mouse CNS. Its modification iDISCO was used for functional studies of brain activity or for mapping amyloid plaques, microglia, vasculature and other properties of brains in Alzheimer diseased patients and mouse models. Modification uDISCO was then used for single cell mapping of neurons in whole unsectioned CNS of mouse.\n\nIn recent years the use of “DISCO” methods is broadened to research on many other tissues, including single-cell mapping of transplanted stem cells in whole mouse organs, imaging of whole human embryos in different developmental stages or examination and diagnostics of human tumors tissue.\n\n"}
{"id": "4487915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4487915", "title": "Agustín Feced", "text": "Agustín Feced\n\nAgustín Feced (born June 11, 1921, died 1980s or 1990s) was a Major and Commander of the Argentine National Gendarmerie, and the head of the Police of the Province of Santa Fe for the city of Rosario, during the Dirty War. He was in charge of the 2nd Regional Police Corps, and he was also part of Intelligence Battalion 601 of the Argentine Army since June 1974, before the beginning of the military dictatorship, in the last days of the presidency of Juan Perón.\n\nHe was born in Acebal, Santa Fe. He was officially declared dead in 1986 but this is disputed, it has been widely claimed that he was still alive after this date.\n\nBetween 1976 and 1979, and already under the dictatorship of the Proceso de Reorganización Nacional, Feced was the head of the Intelligence Service of the 2nd Corps, which doubled as an illegal detention center (the major one in the area, of a total of about 10). His office coordinated the repressive scheme in Rosario and its neighboring areas. People were kidnapped by squads and taken to the IS to be held and tortured. Feced is known to have taken part in the kidnappings, in torture sessions when the victim was for some reason interesting to him, and in the killings, which were often conducted in faraway locations and sometimes passed as fights between the police and armed terrorists. Two of Feced's foremost assistants in these crimes were José Rubén Lo Fiego and Mario Alfredo Marcote.\n\nThe Intelligence Service is now a memorial site called \"Centro Popular de la Memoria\" (People's Memorial Center), preserved by an organization of victims' relatives.\n\nAccording to the extensive research conducted after the end of the Proceso, 720 people were \"disappeared\" in Santa Fe and 350 in Rosario. Feced, together with then-Commander of the 2nd Army Corps Leopoldo Galtieri, is considered responsible for most of them. Before the closing of the case against him, Feced was accused of 270 crimes against humanity. Though Rosario had comparatively a smaller amount of \"disappeared\" people than other metropolitan areas, the proportion of those kidnapped that were set free from the detention centers and camps is also smaller, and there were many more victims of torture and murder.\n\nThe Supreme Council of the Armed Council started an investigation about Feced in 1983, and produced a large amount of documentation including lists of missing people, anonymous burials in a cemetery in Rosario, and tens of criminal collaborators.\n\nThis investigation took 3 years before it was passed on to the Federal Justice in Rosario. Feced was in theory to be in prison since the official opening of the case on January 31, 1984; later he was transferred by justice to the custody of the Military Hospital of Campo de Mayo (Buenos Aires). There he is claimed to have undergone heart surgery in 1985. At the time, though, he was in fact free in Formosa. These facts point to complicity and protection by many powerful interest (military, government officials, and some powerful businessmen such as Alberto Gollán). On July 21, 1986, Feced was officially declared dead by the Military Hospital.\n\nMany witnesses, survivors of the IS, claim to have seen Feced alive after that date. An admission book of the Ariston Hotel in Rosario, presented as evidence to the court by journalist Claudio de Luca, showed a signature with Feced's handwriting, dated July 29, 1988. Francisco Oyarzábal, brother of a murdered victim, reported that Feced had been seen alive in Paraguay.\n\nThe investigation of the Intelligence Service case was archived in 1987 after the passing of the laws called \"Ley de Obediencia Debida\" (Law of Due Obedience) and \"Ley de Punto Final\" (Full Stop Law), during the presidency of Raúl Alfonsín, which restricted the accountability for human rights abuses to the highest levels of the military hierarchy (who had been already tried) and put an end to ongoing criminal investigations into the lower levels.\n\nOn December 15, 1989, the Penal Federal Court of Rosario, without giving weight to the above inconsistencies, declared the case against Feced extinct (closed) due to his alleged death. The rest of the people involved in the crimes of the Intelligence Service were pardoned by decree of President Carlos Menem in 1989–1990.\n\nResearch conducted by journalist Carlos del Frade since 1999, and published in 2002, shows that Feced's last recorded domicile was in the city of Buenos Aires. Though he was supposedly ill and senile, one of his former neighbors, interviewed by del Frade, contradicts this impression.\n\nWithin the San Antonio Cemetery in Formosa, in the area reserved for members of the Gendarmería, there is a grave with the name of Agustín Feced, and an announcement in the local newspaper \"La Mañana\" says that he was buried there the same day of his death, at 5:30 PM. The official records of the cemetery show only one person being buried there and then, and it is not Feced; but he does appear in an old notebook also found there. The unofficial record in the notebook was written by Ramón Giménez, Feced's son-in-law and then a top government official. Feced's coffin is sealed in the wall next to another one that dates from the mid-1990s, and almost 3 meters above the ground. According to the guardian of the cemetery, San Antonio did not have lifts for coffins \"until a few years ago\" (1999), and work hours are 8:00 AM to 1:00 PM, so Feced could not have been buried like that \"unless [somebody] brought three ladders and a lot of people to get [the coffin] up there.\"\n\nThe case against the officers of the Intelligence Division, including Feced and many of his collaborators, was re-opened by federal judge Omar Digerónimo on September 6, 2004, who ordered a number of arrests. José Lo Fiego, Mario Marcote and another former police officer, José Carlos Scortechini, surrendered themselves almost immediately, but denying all the accusations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33821632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33821632", "title": "Albert II, Margrave of Brandenburg", "text": "Albert II, Margrave of Brandenburg\n\nAlbert II, Margrave of Brandenburg (born: – died: 25 February 1220) was a member of the House of Ascania. He was Margrave of Brandenburg from 1205 until his death in 1220.\n\nAlbert II was the youngest son of Otto I and his second wife Ada of Holland. His father Otto I promoted and directed the foundation of German settlement in the area, which had been predominantly Slavic until the 12th century.\n\nAlbert II was, from 1184 onwards, Count of Arneburg in the Altmark. The Altmark belonged to Brandenburg, and his older brother Otto II claimed that this implied that the Ascanians owned Arneburg.\n\nAlbert participated in the Third Crusade (1189–1192). After his return, he was temporarily imprisoned in 1194 by Otto for unexplained reasons. He was present at the inaugural meeting of the Teutonic Knights in 1198 in Acre.\n\nAlbert II inherited the Margraviate in 1205, after the death of his eldest brother Otto II.\n\nIn the dispute about the imperial crown between the Houses of Hohenstaufen and Guelph in the early 13th century, Albert initially supported the Hohenstaufen King Philip of Swabia, like Otto before him. After Philip's assassination in 1208, however, he changed sides, because Emperor Otto IV had assisted him in securing the Margraviate against the Danes, and had confirmed Ascanian ownership of Brandenburg in a deed in 1212.\n\nDuring this period, Albert II had a lengthy dispute with Archbishop Albert I of Magdeburg. He also played an important rôle in the Brandenburg tithe dispute.\n\nAlbert II definitively secured the regions of Teltow, Prignitz and parts of the Uckermark for the Margraviate of Brandenburg, but lost Pomerania to the House of Griffins.\n\nAlbert II died in 1220. At the time, his two sons were still minors. Initially, archbishop Albert I of Magdeburg acted as regent. In 1221, however, Albert's widow, Countess Matilda, took up the regency. After her death in 1225, the brothers were declared legal adults and began ruling the Margraviate jointly.\n\nStephan Warnatsch describes Otto I's children as follows:\n\n\"[They] continued the territorialisation drive that had been initiated [by their father] and, from the end of the 12th Century, as the influx of settlers grew stronger, and, consequently, more people were available to develop the territory, started to expand into the areas of Ruppin, and in particular, Barnim and Teltow. Moreover, the Oder region and the southern Uckermark were also targets of the Ascanian expansion. In all these areas, the Ascanians ran into opposition from competing local princes.\"\n\nIn 1205, Albert married Matilda of Groitzsch (1185–1225), daughter of the Count Conrad II of Lusatia, a member of the House of Wettin, and wife Elizabeth, from the Polish Piast dynasty. They had four children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13689356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13689356", "title": "Ambrella", "text": "Ambrella\n\nAmbrella () is a Japanese video game development company that works under a publishing agreement with Nintendo best known for making spin-off games for the \"Pokémon\" video game franchise. Ambrella was formerly a part of Marigul Management.\n\nAmbrella developed the Nintendo 64 voice recognition game, \"Hey You, Pikachu!\" in 1998, \"Pokémon Channel\" for the Nintendo GameCube in 2003, and \"Pokémon Dash\" for the Nintendo DS in 2004. Ambrella developed \"My Pokémon Ranch\" for the Wii's WiiWare service, which was released in Japan on March 25, 2008, and in North America on June 9, 2008. It developed \"Pokémon Rumble\" which was released in North America on November 16, 2009.\n\nThe company has developed further entries in the \"Pokémon Rumble\" series with \"Pokémon Rumble Blast\" for Nintendo 3DS, \"Pokémon Rumble U\" for the Wii U, and \"Pokémon Rumble World\" for the Nintendo 3DS. The most recent \"Rumble\" games were released via the Nintendo eShop, and contain some variant of microtransactions; \"Pokémon Rumble World\" uses traditional microtransactions and \"Pokémon Rumble U\" uses NFC figurines that predate Amiibo.\n\n"}
{"id": "55476807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55476807", "title": "Assassination of Ataullah Shah", "text": "Assassination of Ataullah Shah\n\nOn 19 August 2017, Attaullah Shah, a prominent worker of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F), was shot dead by unknown assailants at Bannu ada, Dera Ismail Khan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. No one claimed responsibility of the assault.\n\nAtaullah Shah originated from Paniyala and was leaving in Dera Ismail Khan for several years. He was a spiritual teacher and was serving as Khateeb (sermon-giver) of a local mosque. Shah was considered a member of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F) and was aide of its chief Maulana Fazl-ur-Rehman.\n\nIn May 2017, a suicide bombing targeting Abdul Ghafoor Haideri, a leader of JUI (F), left 25 people dead. However Haideri himself managed to escape. The current attack came weeks after Qari Haq Nawaz, leader of JUI (F), was shot dead by unknown assailants in Charsada.\n\nDera Ismail Khan has been home to terrorism in the past. There had been many incidents of bombings. However, for the past half a decade, there had been no such incident in the city. The violence sparked again in August 2017. Two police constables were gunned down on August 11 near Kotli Imam Hussain Imambargah. Two days later, a government servant was shot dead at his doorstep in Maryali area. A milk-seller was critically injured due to firing in Eidgah on August 17.\n\nShah was walking to home after offering Fajr prayer. In the way, gunmen riding on a motorcycle opened fire, and killed him. The gunmen managed to flee. Local police chief Amjad Khan says, \"Attaullah Shah was walking towards home after praying at a mosque in the city of Dera Ismail Khan, when the assailants opened fire early Saturday morning.\" As the news of his death spread, several workers of JUI (F) gathered at the hospital. No one claimed responsibility of attack. Security forces cordoned off the area and started a search operation. Shops and business centers remained closed as the fear spread. His funeral prayer was offered on the evening of the day he was killed. Shah's body was sent to his native town, Paniyala for burial.\n\n"}
{"id": "12952595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12952595", "title": "Astronaut birthplaces by US state", "text": "Astronaut birthplaces by US state\n\nThis article lists the birthplaces of astronauts from the United States' space program and other space travelers born in the United States or holding American citizenship. Space travelers who did not work for NASA are indicated in \"italics\".\n\nAstronauts who were born in 46 states and the District of Columbia have flown in space. No astronauts have yet flown in space who were born in Alaska, Nevada, Vermont or Wyoming.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1581427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1581427", "title": "Bereitschaftspotential", "text": "Bereitschaftspotential\n\nIn neurology, the Bereitschaftspotential or BP (from German, \"readiness potential\"), also called the pre-motor potential or readiness potential (RP), is a measure of activity in the motor cortex and supplementary motor area of the brain leading up to voluntary muscle movement. The BP is a manifestation of cortical contribution to the pre-motor planning of volitional movement. It was first recorded and reported in 1964 by Hans Helmut Kornhuber and Lüder Deecke at the University of Freiburg in Germany. In 1965 the full publication appeared after many control experiments.\n\nIn the spring of 1964 Hans Helmut Kornhuber (then docent and chief physician at the department of neurology, head Professor Richard Jung, university hospital Freiburg im Breisgau) and Lüder Deecke (his doctoral student) went for lunch to the 'Gasthaus zum Schwanen' at the foot of the Schlossberg hill in Freiburg. Sitting alone in the beautiful garden they discussed their frustration with the passive brain research prevailing worldwide and their desire to investigate self-initiated action of the brain and the will. Consequently, they decided to look for cerebral potentials in man related to volitional acts and to take voluntary movement as their research paradigm.\n\nThe possibility to do research on electrical brain potentials preceding voluntary movements came with the advent of the 'computer of average transients' (CAT computer), invented by Manfred Clynes, the first still simple instrument available at that time in the Freiburg laboratory. In the electroencephalogram (EEG) little is to be seen preceding actions, except of an inconstant diminution of the α- (or μ-) rhythm. The young researchers stored the electroencephalogram and electromyogram of self-initiated movements (fast finger flexions) on tape and analyzed the cerebral potentials preceding movements time-reversed with the start of the movement as the trigger, literally turning the tape over for analysis since they had no reversal playback or programmable computer. A potential preceding human voluntary movement was discovered and published in the same year. After detailed investigation and control experiments such as passive finger movements the Citation Classic with the term \"Bereitschaftspotential\" was published.\n\nThe BP is ten to hundred times smaller than the α-rhythm of the EEG; only by averaging, relating the electrical potentials to the onset of the movement it becomes apparent. Figure shows the typical slow shifts of the cortical DC potential, called Bereitschaftspotential, preceding volitional, rapid flexions of the right index finger. The vertical line indicates the instant of triggering t = 0 (first activity in the EMG of the agonist muscle). Recording positions are left precentral (L prec, C3), right precentral (R prec, C4), mid-parietal (Pz); these are unipolar recordings with linked ears as reference. The difference between the BP in C3 and in C4 is displayed in the lowest graph (L/R prec). Superimposed are the results of eight experiments as obtained in the same subject (B.L.) on different days. see Deecke, L.; Grözinger, B.; Kornhuber H.H. (1976)\n\nNote that the BP has two components, the early one (BP1) lasting from about −1.2 to −0.5; the late component (BP2) from −0.5 to shortly before 0 sec. The pre-motion positivity is even smaller, and the motor-potential which starts about fifty to sixty milliseconds before the onset of movement and has its maximum over the contralateral precentral hand area is still smaller. Thus, it takes great care to see these potentials: exact triggering by the real onset of movement is important, which is especially difficult preceding speech movements. Furthermore, artifacts due to head-, eye-, lid-, mouth-movements and respiration have to be eliminated before averaging because such artifacts may be of a magnitude which makes it difficult to render them negligible even after hundreds of sweeps. In the case of eye movements eye muscle potentials have to be distinguished from cerebral potentials. In some cases animal experiments were necessary to clarify the origin of potentials such as the R-wave. Therefore, it took many years until some of the other laboratories were able to confirm the details of Kornhuber & Deecke's results. In addition to the finger or eye movements as mentioned above, the BP has been recorded accompanying willful movements of the wrist, arm, shoulder, hip, knee, foot and toes. It was also recorded prior to speaking, writing and also swallowing.\n\nThe magnetoencephalographic (MEG) equivalent of the Bereitschaftspotential (BP), 'Bereitschafts(magnetic)field' (BF), or readiness field (RF) was first recorded in Hal Weinberg's laboratory at Simon Fraser University Burnaby B.C. Canada in 1982. It was confirmed that the early component, BP 1 or BF1, respectively was generated by the supplementary motor area (SMA), including the pre-SMA, while the late component, BP2 or BF2, was generated by the primary motor area, MI.\n\nA very similar – and equally important – event-related potential (ERP) component had earlier been discovered by the British neurophysiologist William Grey Walter in 1962 and published in 1964. It is the contingent negative variation (CNV). The CNV also composes two waves; the initial wave (i.e., O wave) and the terminal wave (i.e., E wave). The terminal CNV has similar characteristics as the BP and many researchers have claimed that the BP and the terminal CNV are the same component. At least there is a consensus that both indicate a preparation of the brain for a following behavior.\n\nThe Bereitschaftspotential was received with great interest by the scientific community, as reflected by Sir John Eccles's comment: \"There is a delightful parallel between these impressively simple experiments and the experiments of Galileo Galilei who investigated the laws of motion of the universe with metal balls on an inclined plane\". The interest was even greater in psychology and philosophy because volition is traditionally associated with human freedom (cf. Kornhuber 1984). The spirit of the time, however, was hostile to freedom in those years; it was believed that freedom is an illusion. The tradition of behaviourism and Freudism was deterministic. While will and volition were frequently leading concepts in psychological research papers before and after the first world war and even during the second war, after the end of the second world war this declined, and by the mid-sixties these key words completely disappeared and were abolished in the thesaurus of the American Psychological Association. The BP is an electrical sign of participation of the supplementary motor area (SMA) prior to volitional movement, which starts activity prior to the primary motor area. The BP has precipitated a worldwide discussion about free will (cf. the closing chapter in the book \"The Bereitschaftspotential\").\n\nAs said above, the activity of the SMA generates the early component of the Bereitschaftspotential (BP1 or BP early). The SMA has the starting function of the movement or action. The role of the SMA was further substantiated by Cunnington et al. 2003, showing that SMA proper and pre-SMA are active prior to volitional movement or action, as well as the cingulate motor area (CMA). This is now called ‘anterior mid-cingulate cortex (aMCC)’. Recently it has been shown by integrating simultaneously acquired EEG and fMRI that SMA and aMCC have strong reciprocal connections that act to sustain each other’s activity, and that this interaction is mediated during movement preparation according to the Bereitschaftspotential amplitude.\n\nEEGs and EMGs are used in combination with Bayesian inference to construct Bayesian networks which attempt to predict general patterns of Motor Intent Neuron Action Potentials firing. Researchers attempting to develop non-intrusive brain-machine interfaces are interested in this, as are system analysis, operations research, and epistemology (e.g. the Smith predictor has been suggested in the discussion). (explanation needed!)\n\nIn a series of experiments in the 1980s, Benjamin Libet studied the relationship between conscious experience of volition and the BP e.g. and found that the BP started about 0.35 sec \"earlier\" than the subject's reported conscious awareness that \"now he or she feels the desire to make a movement.\" Libet concludes that we have no free will in the initiation of our movements; though, since subjects were able to prevent intended movement at the last moment, we do have the ability to veto these actions (\"free won't\").\n\nThese studies have provoked widespread debate. See also the recent extensive critique by Klemm, 2010.\n\nKornhuber and Deecke have shown that we have free will also for the initiation of our movements and actions, not absolute freedom though, which would mean freedom from nature which is impossible but relative freedom—freedom in \"degrees of freedom.\" According to Kornhuber and Deecke one can take efforts to increase one's degree of freedom through self-improvement, but one can also lose degrees of freedom through self-mismanagement, see below under \"further reading\" at third position Kornhuber and Deecke (2012).\n\nIn 2016, a group around John-Dylan Haynes in Berlin (Germany) determined the time window after the BP in which an intended motion could possibly be cancelled upon command. The authors tested whether human volunteers could win a “duel“ against a BCI (Brain Computer Interface) designed to predict their movements in real-time from observations of their EEG activity (the BP). They aimed to determine the exact time at which cancellation (veto) of movements was not possible anymore (the point of no return). The computer was trained to predict by means of the BP when a proband would move. The point of no return was at 200 ms before the movement. However, even after that, when a pedal was already set in motion, the subjects were able to reschedule their action by not completing the already started behavior. The authors pointed out in their report that cancellation of self-initiated movements had already been reported by Libet in 1985. Thus, the new achievement was a more precise determination of the point of no return.\n\nAn interesting use of the Bereitschaftspotential is in Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) applications; this signal feature can be identified from scalp recording (even from single-trial measurements) and interpreted for various uses, for example control of computer displays or control of peripheral motor units in spinal cord injuries. The most important BCI application is the 'mental' steering of artificial limbs in amputees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29955894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29955894", "title": "Brighterion", "text": "Brighterion\n\nBrighterion (est. in 2000) is an artificial intelligence company owned by MasterCard.\n\nDr. Akli Adjaoute, while finishing his PhD in Artficial Intelligence at Pierre and Marie Curie University, founded his first company, Conception En Intelligence Artificielle in 1988 in Paris, France where he was able to successfully apply his years of research in the field of artificial intelligence in various industries throughout Europe. Conception En Intelligence Artificielle initially offered Rylm, a platform (MINDsuite) based on Smart Agents, Neural Networks, Business Rules, Genetic Algorithms, Constraint Programming, Fuzzy Logic and Cased-based Reasoning.\n\nRylm’s first application was in the decommissioning of nuclear facilities and Radioactive waste. This application was led by the team that invented the programming language PROLOG and is described in the Radioactive Waste Handling Operations paper.\n\nRylm’s second application was in healthcare at Necker Hospital as highlighted by the French magazine L’Usine Nouvelle Technologies.\n\nAnother application of Rylm was in network troubleshooting as described in the French magazine 01 Informatique.\n\nThe technology behind Rylm was also successfully applied in various other fields including: financials, supply chain, retail, and military.\n\nRylm has received recognition for its industry-leading technology including mention in the Meta Group report Data Mining Market for best Machine Learning Technology.\n\nIn 2000, this technology formed the foundation of Brighterion, Inc. and in 2002, Raymond Kendall, three-time Secretary General of INTERPOL joined the company as its chairman. Since the founding of Brighterion, the core technology has been adapted and improved for real-time applications in the fields of homeland security, payment, compliance, IoT, healthcare, and marketing.\n\nBrighterion has received multiple awards including: the Payment Security Excellence Award, the 2017 Cool Vendor by Gartner, Inc. and the Morgan Stanley Fintech Award. \n\nBrighterion holds several patents.\n\nIn August 2017, Mastercard acquired Brighterion .\n"}
{"id": "49541612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49541612", "title": "CAPP-Seq", "text": "CAPP-Seq\n\nCAncer Personalized Profiling by deep Sequencing (CAPP-Seq) is a sensitive method used to quantify DNA in cancer. It measures Cell-free tumor DNA which is released from dead tumor cells into the blood. This method can be generalized for any cancer type that is known to have recurrent mutations. CAPP-Seq can detect one molecule of mutant DNA in 10,000 molecules of healthy DNA.\n\nCAPP-Seq was designed to lower sequencing costs by only targeting specific areas of the genome that are recurrently mutated for a given cancer. This allows for sequencing costs between $200-$300 USD. It can also target multiple areas of the genome at once and a variety of different types of mutations, allowing for a lower amount of input DNA compared to other methods.\n\nPopulation analysis is performed to identify recurrent mutations in a given cancer type. This is done by analyzing public data sets such as the COSMIC cancer database and TCGA.\nA ‘selector’ is designed which consists of biotinylated DNA oligonucleotide probes targeting the recurrently mutated regions chosen for the specific cancer type. The selector is chosen using a multiphase bioinformatics approach. Using the selector, a probe-based hybridization capture is performed on tumor and normal DNA to discover mutations specific to the patient. The hybridization capture is then also applied to ctDNA to quantify the mutations that were previously discovered.\n\nPeripheral blood is collected from patients and ctDNA is isolated from ≥1 mL of plasma. DNA libraries are made using the KAPA Library kit with some modifications in order to optimize protocols for use with ctDNA. The KAPA HiFi polymerase is used here because it is the most effective and produces the fewest number of errors. Input DNA can be as low as 4 ng.\n\nThere were four main goals in adapting this protocol for ctDNA work:\n\n\nThese were achieved by allowing adaptor ligation to be carried out at 16℃ for 16 hours to increase adaptor ligation efficiency and recovery. The most important adaptation is during enzymatic and clean-up steps; they are performed with-bead, in order to minimize tube transfer steps which increases recovery.\n\nIn CAPP-Seq, design of selector is a crucial step that identifies recurrent mutations in a particular cancer type using publicly available next generation sequencing data. For inclusion in CAPP-seq selector, the recurrent mutations that are enriched in a population is described by an index- Recurrence Index (RI). RI is the number of mutations per kilobase of a given genomic locus of a patient carrying particular mutations. RI represents a patient level recurrence frequency estimated for somatic mutations and all mutations. Known and driver recurrent mutations in a population can be ranked based on the RI and therefore RI is used to design a selector. A six phase design strategy is employed to design selector.\n\n\nHuman cancer is heterogeneous and recurrent cancer mutations are present only a minority of patient. Therefore, a careful and non-redundant design of selector is the vital part in CAPP-Seq and also the size of the selector is related to its downstream costs.\n\nHybridization capture with the selector probe set is performed on tumor DNA from a biopsy and sequenced to a depth of ~10,000× coverage. The biotinylated selector probes bind selectively to the regions of the DNA library that were chosen to be where the recurrently mutations occur in the given cancer type. In this way you are left with a smaller library that is enriched for only the regions you want, which can then be sequenced. This allows the determination of patient specific mutations. Hybridization capture with the same selector is then performed on ctDNA from the blood to quantify the previously identified mutations in the patient. CAPP-Seq can be applied to ctDNA from multiple blood samples at different time points in order to follow tumor evolution.\n\nA series of steps are involved in analysis of CAPP-Seq data from mutation detection to validation and open source software can do most of the analysis. After the first step of variant calling, germline and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) mutations are removed in CAPP-seq to reduce the background biases. Several statistical significance tests can be performed against background to all type of variant calling. For example, statistical significance of tumor-derived SNVs can be estimated by random sampling of background alleles using Monte Carlo method. For the indel calls, statistical significance is calculated applying a separate method that used a strand specific analysis by Z-test shown in previous work. Finally, a computational validation steps reduces the false positive calls. However, a robust computational framework specific for CAPP-seq data analysis is a high demand in this field.\n\nSensitivity of this technology depends on the effective design of selector and highly biased with the size of the cohort and type of cancer under study. The lack of background to find the statistically significant recurrent variants has limited its performance due to stochastic noise and biological variability. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis on several cancer patient and cancer cured patient (sample collected at different tumor stages, circulating DNA time point, treatment, etc.) showed that CAPP-seq has higher sensitivity and specificity compared to previous methods in non–small-cell lung cancer.\n\nThe detection limit of CAPP-Seq is affected by three main areas: the input amount of ctDNA molecules, sample cross-contamination, potential allelic bias in the capture reagent, and PCR or sequencing errors. CtDNA is able to be detected at a lower limit of 0.025% fractional abundance in the blood. Sample cross-contamination was found to be a very small contribution and reports have shown minimal allelic bias towards capture of reference alleles in PBLs (peripheral blood lymphocytes). PCR and sequencing errors are also minimal.\n\nIt is important to note that when using CAPP-Seq on ctDNA it still currently not known whether ctDNA is released at equal rates from primary tumors and metastatic disease, so this should be taken into consideration. This could cause problems with determining tumor burden and clonal evolution if different tumors or clones are dying off and releasing their DNA at different rates. It is also unknown how tumor histology affects ctDNA release.\n\nAnother major limitation with only using ctDNA levels to detect tumor burden is that ctDNA can only predict residual tumor, it cannot tell you where the tumor or tumors are located within the body. This means that ctDNA will be best used complementary to imaging for disease burden at this time.\n\nCAPP-Seq has many advantages over other methods such as digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) and amplicon sequencing. CAPP-Seq can survey many loci in the same experiment compared to dPCR and amplicon sequencing which use multiple different experiments and therefore use up much more sample. Another advantage is that CAPP-Seq can not only detect point mutations but it can also detect indels, structural variations, and copy number variations.\n\nAnother advantage of CAPP-Seq is that because it only targets specific areas of interest in the genome it is more cost effective than whole exome sequencing and whole genome sequencing which are 171X and 44X more expensive respectively.\n\nUsing circulating tumor DNA as opposed to solid tumor biopsies allows analysis of the full repertoire of tumor cells dispersed throughout the tumor and distant metastasis. Therefore, there is a better chance of finding all mutations associated with this cancer. Having a full overview of the cancer and what is driving it will allow for better treatment plans and management of disease.\n\nWhen treating cancer it is useful to have precise measurements of the total body disease burden. It helps with determining prognostic significance and treatment response. This is normally done using computed tomography (CT scans), positron emission tomography (PET scans) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). These medical imaging procedures are expensive and are not without their own problems. These imaging techniques are not able to accurately resolve small tumors (≤1 cm in diameter). Imaging can also be affected by radiation-induced inflammation and fibrotic changes, making is hard to determine if there is residual tumor or just effects of treatment.\n\nIt has been found that levels of ctDNA in plasma significantly correlate with tumor volume as compare with medical imaging (CT, PET and MRI)., Detection of ctDNA can predict residual tumor or imminent relapse, in some cases even better than medical imaging and current methods.\n\nDetection of ctDNA has been found to be a predictor of relapse in multiple studies thus far. In a study in late stage NSCLC (non-small cell lung cancer) they found two cases where ctDNA correctly determined the outcome of a patient when medical imaging was wrong. In one cause, the imaging predicted relapse based on a suspected residual tumor which turned out to only be radiation induced inflammation, but ctDNA was not detected and the patient did not relapse. In another case, the imaging showed no tumor but ctDNA was detected and the patient relapsed shortly afterwards. In another study on DLBCL (diffuse large B cell lymphoma), ctDNA was also found to be predictive of relapse.\n\nBiopsies are invasive and associated with risks to the patient. Therefore, multiple biopsies to monitor disease progression are rare and diagnostic biopsies are relied on for genetic information. This can be problematic because of tumor heterogeneity and tumor evolution. Firstly, biopsies only sample one portion of the tumor, and because tumors are heterogeneous, this will not cover the full genetic landscape of the tumor. Secondly, after treatment tumors evolve and there may be new mutations not represented in the diagnostic sample.\n\nBiopsy-free tumor genotyping, by way of CAPP-Seq and ctDNA, addresses many of these issues. A simple blood test is non-invasive and much safer and easier to subject cancer patients to multiple times through the course of treatment. Using ctDNA gives a better sample of tumor DNA compared to a single area of a tumor collected in a biopsy, allowing a better estimate of tumor heterogeneity. Taking multiple samples of ctDNA at different time points following the course of treatment allows tumor evolution to be uncovered. This can help detect the emergence of mutations that confer resistance to a targeted therapy and allow the course of treatment to be adjusted accordingly. CAPP-Seq specifically allows for the screening of multiple genomic locations which will become important as the list of cancer mutations important for treatment continues to grow. In a study for late stage NSCLC, they performed a version of CAPP-Seq where the tumor biopsy was not sequenced first, and they were able to correctly classify 100% of patient plasma samples with a 0% false positive rate. This shows that even without previous knowledge of tumor mutations, they can be accurately discovered by ctDNA alone.\n"}
{"id": "53631046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53631046", "title": "Caffe (software)", "text": "Caffe (software)\n\nCAFFE (Convolutional Architecture for Fast Feature Embedding) is a deep learning framework, originally developed at University of California, Berkeley. It is open source, under a BSD license. It is written in C++, with a Python interface.\n\nYangqing Jia created the caffe project during his PhD at UC Berkeley. Now there are many contributors to the project, and it is hosted at GitHub.\n\nCaffe supports many different types of deep learning architectures geared towards image classification and image segmentation. It supports CNN, RCNN, LSTM and fully connected neural network designs. Caffe supports GPU- and CPU-based acceleration computational kernel libraries such as NVIDIA cuDNN and Intel MKL.\n\nCaffe is being used in academic research projects, startup prototypes, and even large-scale industrial applications in vision, speech, and multimedia. Yahoo! has also integrated caffe with Apache Spark to create CaffeOnSpark, a distributed deep learning framework.\n\nIn April 2017, Facebook announced Caffe2, which includes new features such as Recurrent Neural Networks.\nAt the end of March 2018, Caffe2 was merged into PyTorch.\n\n"}
{"id": "30862769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862769", "title": "Dying Earth genre", "text": "Dying Earth genre\n\nDying Earth is a subgenre of science fantasy or science fiction which takes place in the far future at either the end of life on Earth or the End of Time, when the laws of the universe themselves fail. Themes of world-weariness, innocence (wounded or otherwise), idealism, entropy, (permanent) exhaustion/depletion of many or all resources (such as soil nutrients), and the hope of renewal tend to dominate.\n\nThe Dying Earth genre differs from the apocalyptic subgenre in that it deals not with catastrophic destruction, but with entropic exhaustion of the Earth. The genre was prefigured by the works of the Romantic movement. Jean-Baptiste Cousin de Grainville's \"Le Dernier Homme\" (1805) narrates the tale of Omegarus, the Last Man on Earth. It is a bleak vision of the future when the Earth has become totally sterile. Lord Byron's poem \"Darkness\" (1816) shows Earth after the Sun has died.\n\nAnother early example is \"La Fin du Monde\" (\"The End of the World\", aka \"Omega: the last days of the world\"), written by Camille Flammarion and published in France in 1893. The first half of the novel deals with a comet on a collision course with earth in the 25th century. The last half focuses on Earth's future history, where civilizations rise and fall, humans evolve, and finally Earth ends as an old, dying, and barren planet.\n\nAnother early and more famous science fiction work to utilize the familiar Dying Earth imagery was H. G. Wells's famous novella \"The Time Machine\" (1895). At the end of this work, the unnamed time traveller travels into the far future, where there are only a few living things on a dying Earth. He then returns to his own time to relate his tale to a circle of contemporaries.\n\nTwo brooding works by William Hope Hodgson would elaborate on Wells's vision. \"The House on the Borderland\" (1908) takes place in a house besieged by unearthly forces. The narrator then travels (without explanation and perhaps psychically) into a distant future in which humanity has died and then even further, past the death of Earth. Hodgson's \"The Night Land\" (1912) describes a time, millions of years in the future, when the Sun has gone dark. The last few millions of the human race are gathered together in a gigantic metal pyramid, the Last Redoubt (probably the first arcology in literature), under siege from unknown forces and Powers outside in the dark.\n\nA work by the early French science fiction author J.-H. Rosny aîné, \"La Mort de la Terre\" (1910), deals with the last, scattered generation of an evolved humankind on an exhausted, desert earth and their encounter with a new type of mineral-metallic life. In some ways it reads like the inversion of his earlier \"Les Xipéhuz\" (1887), in which early humans encounter and battle an utterly alien and incomprehensible form of life.\n\nFrom the 1930s onwards, Clark Ashton Smith wrote a series of stories situated in Zothique, the last continent of Earth. Smith said in a letter to L. Sprague de Camp, dated November 3, 1953:\n\nAlthough not technically set on a dying Earth, many of the sword and planet stories of the early twentieth century set on Mars—most notably Edgar Rice Burroughs's Barsoom series and works influenced by it, such as the Eric John Stark stories of Leigh Brackett and C.L. Moore's series focusing on Northwest Smith—share similarities with the genre. In these stories, ancient and exotic Martian (or other) civilizations have undergone a decadent decline, enlivened by the presence of demonic adversaries from past ages. The fact that scientists had seriously speculated that Mars had once borne life, which had by the present almost or, perhaps entirely, died out, gave a special entropic kick to these escapist adventures. \n\nUnder the influence of Smith, Jack Vance wrote the short story collection \"The Dying Earth\". The collection would have several sequels. These works gave the subgenre its name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30747330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30747330", "title": "European Algae Biomass Association", "text": "European Algae Biomass Association\n\nThe European Algae Biomass Association (EABA), established on June 2, 2009, is the European association representing both research and industry in the field of algae technologies\n\nEABA was founded during its inaugural conference on June 1-2nd, 2009 at Villa La Pietra in Florence.\n\nThe general objective of the European Algae Biomass Association (EABA) is to promote mutual interchange and cooperation in the field of algae production and use, including biofuels uses and all other utilisations. It aims at creating, developing and maintaining solidarity and links between its Members and at defending their interests at European and international level. Its main target is to act as a catalyst for fostering synergies among scientists, industrialists and decision makers in order to promote the development of research, technology and industrial capacities in the field of algae.\n\nIn this perspective EABA intends to constitute a basis for:\n\nEABA’s president, Prof. Mario Tredici, is serving a 2-years term since his election on June 2, 2009. The EABA Vice-presidents are Mr. Claudio Rochietta, (Oxem, Italy), Prof. Patrick Sorgeloos (University of Ghent, Belgium) and Mr. Marc Van Aken (SBAE Industries, Belgium). The EABA Executive Director is Mr. Raffaello Garofalo.\nThe association is headquartered in Florence, Italy.\n\nEABA has 58 founding members and the EABA total membership reached 79 members in December 2010.\n\nAquaFUELs is a European research project focusing on establishing the state of the art on research, technological development and demonstration activities using algae biomass for 2nd generation biofuels, assessing the overall sustainability of algae biofuels.\n\nAquaFUELs promotes critical thinking and reasoning are necessary to draft the lines of future developments in this field, with a view to understanding the place of algae among renewable energy sources in the EU, with a careful eye to sustainability and social implications.\n\nAquaFUELs aims to draw the detailed, comprehensive and concrete picture of the actual status quo of EU and international initiatives on algae biofuels. Based on this work, AquaFUELs will successively elaborate an overall assessment on the technology, and identify major research and industrial needs.\n\nThe surveys and assessments produced by AquaFUELs will address the full life cycle analysis - from collection to fuel use - in terms of environmental, economic and social sustainability. A major mean to reach project goals will be the coordination of a critical mass of ongoing research activities, that will be actively involved in the preparation of surveys as well as in the elaboration of the assessment studies and identification of future needs. Creating and maximizing synergies among these initiatives is the major project result.\n\nThe project provides support to the establishment of the European Algae Biomass Association, which promotes mutual interchange and cooperation in the field of algae biomass research, production and use.\n\nEABA is a candidate member of the European Renewable Energy Council\n\n"}
{"id": "3190223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3190223", "title": "Extreme Measures", "text": "Extreme Measures\n\nExtreme Measures is a 1996 American crime thriller film based on Michael Palmer's 1991 novel of the same name, dealing with the ethics of medical sacrifices. The film was directed by Michael Apted and starred Hugh Grant, Gene Hackman, Sarah Jessica Parker and David Morse.\n\nDr. Guy Luthan (Hugh Grant) is a New York emergency room doctor who one night comes across a strange patient: a homeless man who has a wristband from a hospital he's not familiar with, mentioning a drug he's never heard of, and with strange symptoms, including a wildly fluctuating heart rate. When the man dies, Guy attempts to follow up and find out more about the patient - only to find that the body and all records have disappeared, and he's told by his superiors to drop the case.\n\nAs he continues trying to find out what happened, Guy's personal and professional life get suddenly sidetracked. His home is ransacked and cocaine is planted near his bedside. The police arrest him and he is convicted and in the process he loses his job, his license to practice medicine and all of his friends. In desperation, he manages to get the help of some homeless men who lead him to their underground home. His ER patient who died also had lived there. Through them he's led to an organization, led by neurosurgeon Dr. Lawrence Myrick (Gene Hackman), that performs spinal experiments on the homeless people, all of whom have died thus far, in an attempt to find a cure for paralysis.\n\nMyrick attempts to sway Guy to join his team, telling him that his “test subjects” are heroes, and that killing one to save millions is worth the sacrifice. Guy admits that while there is some truth in what Myrick says, Myrick’s victims did not choose to give up their lives, which makes Myrick a murderer. Myrick is accidentally shot and killed by rogue FBI Agent Frank Hare (David Morse). Later, Myrick’s widow hands the discs and documentation regarding the research to Guy telling him \"my husband was trying to do a good thing, but in the wrong way\". He opens the package, views the materials and proceeds towards the neurology building where he is now working.\n\nThe film was based on a 1991 novel by Michael Palmer. It was originally developed as a vehicle for Alec Baldwin.\n\nThen it went to Simian Films, the company of Hugh Grant and his then-girlfriend Elizabeth Hurley, which had set up at Castle Rock Entertainment. The film marked a change of pace for Grant, being a drama. \"I was always on the lookout for one (a drama), but I wasn't saying, `I've got to do a serious role now.' It was just that that was the best script around.\"\n\nThe script was developed for about a year, including rewrites with involvement from William Goldman. \"We just tamed it a bit for me,\" said Grant. \"We just tweaked it.\"\n\nPalmer said, \"They apologized for the way they deviated from the book. Hugh Grant has turned the protagonist into a character he can live with, but the nature of the character hasn't changed. The more I think about it, the more it seems like my book.\"\n\nFilming took place in Toronto and New York City, beginning February 1996.\n\nDirector Michael Apted found it challenging working with Grant and Hurley. \"It's not something I'd recommend, however genial the people are... It was tricky. We had the same agendas, mercifully, so it was all right... Producers are powerful. And actors are powerful these days. So, to have the double whammy up there, it makes your job harder. The other challenge I had was that this was the first film they (Hurley and Grant) produced. They were learning as they were doing... I didn't know whether they were going to be dilettante producers... They really got their hands dirty. They weren't just swanning in for the glamour bits. They were there the whole time in the trenches.\"\n\nAdded Hurley: \"I've been on film sets for about nine years as a hired hand so it wasn't that I didn't know anything... Yes, there are things I know now that I didn't know before. But there are things a monkey could learn to do... I think learning to keep on top of things ... You have to, sort of, learn that as you go. I hadn't realized how fragile a film could be. I did end up being very hands-on. I ended up doing much more than I had expected to. I didn't realize how easy it was to really not make the film you set out to make... I think having to concentrate very, very hard on every department was a shock.\"\n\nThe film had a mixed reception from critics. It currently holds a 56% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Roger Ebert and Gene Siskel both gave the film 3 out of 4 stars. Ebert mentioned in his review that the film is \"pitched at a higher level than most thrillers; the dialogue is literate and intelligent, and Grant is more of an everyman than an action hero.\" Grant's performance received particular praise for this film, along with \"An Awfully Big Adventure\", for playing against type in his post-Four Weddings and a Funeral career in the late 1990s. Kenneth Turan, who disliked the film, said of Grant's performance: \"Though he doesn't have enough weight to stabilize the film when the plotting turns silly, overall he does a capable job in an unlikely role.\" \n\nDespite debuting in second place, the film was not a box office success.\n\n"}
{"id": "1498102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1498102", "title": "Femtotechnology", "text": "Femtotechnology\n\nFemtotechnology is a hypothetical term used in reference to structuring of matter on the scale of a femtometer, which is 10 m. This is a smaller scale in comparison with nanotechnology and picotechnology which refer to 10 m and 10 m respectively.\n\nWork in the femtometer range involves manipulation of excited energy states within atomic nuclei, specifically nuclear isomers, to produce metastable (or otherwise stabilized) states with unusual properties. In the extreme case, excited states of the individual nucleons that make up the atomic nucleus (protons and neutrons) are considered, ostensibly to tailor the behavioral properties of these particles.\n\nThe most advanced form of molecular nanotechnology is often imagined to involve self-replicating molecular machines, and there have been some speculations suggesting something similar might be possible with analogues of molecules composed of nucleons rather than atoms. For example, the astrophysicist Frank Drake once speculated about the possibility of self-replicating organisms composed of such nuclear molecules living on the surface of a neutron star, a suggestion taken up in the science fiction novel \"Dragon's Egg\" by the physicist Robert Forward. It is thought by physicists that nuclear molecules may be possible, but they would be very short-lived, and whether they could actually be made to perform complex tasks such as self-replication, or what type of technology could be used to manipulate them, is unknown.\n\nPractical applications of femtotechnology are currently considered to be unlikely. The spacings between nuclear energy levels require equipment capable of efficiently generating and processing gamma rays, without equipment degradation. The nature of the strong interaction is such that excited nuclear states tend to be very unstable (unlike the excited electron states in Rydberg atoms), and there are a finite number of excited states below the nuclear binding energy, unlike the (in principle) infinite number of bound states available to an atom’s electrons. Similarly, what is known about the excited states of individual nucleons seems to indicate that these do not produce behavior that in any way makes nucleons easier to use or manipulate, and indicates instead that these excited states are even less stable and fewer in number than the excited states of atomic nuclei.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43885602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43885602", "title": "Frank Kenny", "text": "Frank Kenny\n\nFrancis \"Frank\" Kenny (9 August 1878 – 26 April 1930) was an Australian rules footballer who played with St Kilda in the Victorian Football League (VFL).\n\nKenny, a South Melbourne junior, made two appearances for St Kilda, in the 1904 VFL season. He debuted in St Kilda's round 15 loss to Melbourne at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. The following week he played against Collingwood at Junction Oval, in a 61-point loss.\n\nAlso a district cricketer for South Melbourne, Kenny played several cricket matches alongside his twin brother Arthur, a Victorian first-class cricketer. It is said that their identical appearances used to confuse opposition players, when one of them came in to bat after another had earlier been dismissed.\n\nKenny suffered a fractured skull in an assault outside Flinders Street station on 23 April 1930 and died of his injuries in Royal Melbourne Hospital three days later. He had been selling race cards to passers-by and got into an argument with a rival vendor, Francis Edwards, who struck him. As a result of the inquest, Edwards was charged with manslaughter.\n"}
{"id": "186529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186529", "title": "Futabatei Shimei", "text": "Futabatei Shimei\n\nAfter quitting his studies at the Russian language department at the Tokyo Foreign Language School (東京外国語学校 \"Tōkyō Gaikokugo Gakkō\") in protest over administrative restructuring, Futabatei published the literary criticism \"Shōsetsu Sōron\" at the encouragement of the critic and author Tsubouchi Shōyō in 1886. Futabatei's first novel \"Ukigumo\" was never finished, but its realist style strongly influenced fellow authors in his day. Futabatei was accomplished in Russian and translated the work of Ivan Turgenev and other Russian realists into Japanese.\n\nIn 1902, he learned Esperanto in Russia. Returning to Japan in 1906, he published the first Japanese-Esperanto instruction book \"世界語\" \"Sekaigo\".\n\nFutabatei died of tuberculosis on the Bay of Bengal while returning from Russia as a special correspondent for the \"Asahi Shimbun\" newspaper. He was cremated and buried in Singapore.\n\nThe origin of his pen name is in the curse his father said when told by his son that he aspired to study literature: \"Kutabatte shimae\" (くたばってしまえ), \"Drop dead!\".\n\nCriticism\n\nNovels\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26893018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26893018", "title": "Gears of War 3", "text": "Gears of War 3\n\nGears of War 3 is a military science fiction third-person shooter video game developed by Epic Games and published by Microsoft Studios for the Xbox 360. It is the third installment of the \"Gears of War\" series. Originally due for release on April 8, 2011, the game was delayed and eventually released on September 20, 2011. The story was written by science fiction author Karen Traviss.\n\nLike its predecessors, the game received widespread critical acclaim from critics. Critics praised its story, voice acting, graphics and visuals, and music, but criticized its lack of innovation. \"Gears of War 3\" sold over 3 million copies and was the second best selling game in the U.S.\n\nA sequel, titled \"Gears of War 4\", was announced in June 2015 and was released on October 11, 2016.\n\nLike its predecessors, \"Gears of War 3\" is a third-person shooter that emphasizes the use of cover and squad tactics in order to survive combat situations. The player's character can carry four weapons: one pistol, one set of grenades, and two primary weapons. Firearms can be swapped with other weapons dropped by fallen foes or at stockpiles throughout the game, along with ammunition. When the player reloads a weapons ammunition, they have an opportunity for an \"active reload\", shown by a small cursor moving over a line with a marked section on the player's heads-up display (HUD). If the player hits a control button when the cursor is in the marked section, they will reload faster with the resulting reload being slightly more powerful than normal bullets, causing more damage to opponents as well as allowing for more \"knockback\" meaning that enemies running directly at you will be slowed on shot. If they press the button outside this section, this temporarily jams the weapon, leaving the player vulnerable and taking longer to reload. Alternatively, the player can opt to not try for the active reload, reloading the weapon at normal speed, but with no added damage.\nWhen in combat, the player can take some damage from enemy fire, filling a blood-colored \"crimson omen\" on the HUD as a measure of the player's health, unlike the traditional health bar in other shooters. By staying out of the line of fire, this will dissipate over time, but by taking too much damage, the player will become downed or killed, and must be \"revived\" by an ally within a short \"bleed-out\" period, or else the player will die, unless playing the game on Insane difficultly in which case a player will die immediately after taking too much damage without the bleed-out. The player can also be killed during the bleed-out by the use of the game's signature execution moves by the enemy. Some types of damage, such as explosives or head shots, can kill the player immediately without the bleed-out period. Similarly, the player can also cause enemies to fall into bleed-out in the same manner. The player and their allies and enemies can use nearly any structure as cover, firing blind from behind it or leaning out to take aimed shots while usually exposing their head more. Players can quickly switch between nearby covering walls or jump over lower cover to rush forward. Within \"Gears of War 3\", some cover can be destroyed after taking some amount of damage, which can be used to a tactical advantage to draw out enemies from cover.\n\nNew to \"Gears of War 3\" is the ability to tag enemy opponents; computer-controlled allies will then concentrate fire on these marked enemies, while human allies will be alerted to their location on their HUD. Players can now also swap weapons and ammunition (and money during Horde Mode) with other allies in the course of battle.\n\nThe player maintains an experience level that persists across all game modes. The player earns experience through kills, performing special types of kills and executions, reviving and aiding teammates, and through general process of the campaign or competitive modes. Players can also gain experience points by winning medals and ribbons, which are awarded for defeating enemies with certain weapons or winning several matches. Earning levels unlocks the use of special characters and weapon skins within the game's multiplayer mode.\n\n\"Gears of War 3\" takes place two years after Jacinto, humanity's last stronghold, is destroyed in an effort to completely eradicate the Locust Horde. The Coalition of Ordered Governments (COG) remnants relocate to Vectes, a secluded island, in order to rebuild their civilization. The COG then disbands after Chairman Prescott mysteriously disappears and seemingly abandons his forces. A new foe, the Lambent, are threatening humanity's dwindling numbers. As the Lambent begin to invade Vectes, Marcus Fenix and his comrades retreat to the \"CNV Sovereign\", a helicopter carrier, and take refuge at sea.\n\n\"Gears of War 3\" begins as Chairman Prescott unexpectedly arrives on the \"Sovereign\". Prescott informs Marcus Fenix he needs to relay important information to the ship's senior officer, Captain Michaelson. The Lambent then launch a surprise attack on the ship, which leaves Michaelson dead and Prescott mortally wounded. Before dying, Prescott gives Marcus an encryption to the disc that Colonel Hoffman has and reveals that his father, Adam Fenix, is still alive but captive on Azura, a secret COG base. Marcus, Dom, Cole, and Baird fight their way to the Anvil Gate Fortress, where Hoffman possesses the necessary equipment to decrypt Prescott's disc. Upon arriving at Anvil Gate, Marcus and his comrades assist Hoffman's soldiers in repelling a combined Lambent and Locust assault.\n\nUpon further analysis of the disc's content, Marcus learns that Azura is protected by man-made hurricane generators, making the island only accessible by submarine. Marcus and his comrades, joined by old friend Dizzy Wallin, successfully find a submarine but require Imulsion to fuel it. Dom suggests they first venture to an abandoned town called Mercy, where they discover that humans are becoming Lambent. During extraction, the Gears are nearly overrun by Locust and Lambent; Dom sacrifices himself to create an explosion that wipes out the hostile forces. Demoralized, they are forced to continue their search for fuel in the city of Char after their truck runs out of fuel. The ruined city is inhabited by several Stranded civilians who are led by Griffin (voiced by Ice-T). Despite his dislike for the COG and Gears, Griffin reluctantly tasks Marcus to recover a supply of Imulsion. After acquiring the fuel they are attacked by the Locust Horde, led by Queen Myrrah. Griffin's forces sustain heavy casualties in the ensuing battle, but the Gears are ultimately able to escape and reach the shipyards where they have to fight the Locust as they repair and fuel their submarine.\n\nMarcus' group finally arrives at Azura, discovering that it is a sanctuary and resort for Sera's most elite and powerful individuals. Adam contacts the Gears and reveals he is being held captive atop Azura's main hotel tower. Marcus's group battles through waves of hostiles before finding his father. Adam quickly explains that he has created a device capable of eradicating all Lambent and Locust life forms on Sera. Adam had worked with Myrrah before to try to tune the wave so that only Lambent would be affected, but with the Imulsion, revealed to be a parasitic lifeform, now infecting humans, Adam ran out of time, infuriating Myrrah. Marcus and his comrades defend Adam from the Locust and Lambent, and from an attack by Myrrah. Adam reveals that he had to infect himself with Lambent cells in order to test his machine. As the machine begins to pulsate with energy, Adam bids his son farewell before the device kills him. Myrrah rises from the rubble and begins insulting Adam. Marcus fatally stabs Myrrah with Dom's commando knife he got back in Mercy. Shortly afterwards, the machine emits a blue wave of energy that sweeps across Sera, destroying the Locust, Lambent, and the Imulsion. The scene transitions back to Marcus, who is mournfully wondering what humanity has left. He is comforted by Anya, who assures Marcus that the sacrifices of Adam, Dom, and their comrades have guaranteed humanity a future.\n\n\"Gears of War 3\" includes a stereoscopic mode for 3DTV sets. It uses TriOviz for Games Technology, which is integrated with Unreal Engine 3, for stereoscopic 3D support. All \"Gears of War 3\" gameplay and cinematics have S3D support, and this extends to split-screen play as well.\n\nOn December 17, 2010, Epic Games confirmed that the Epic Edition of \"Bulletstorm\" for the Xbox 360 included early access to the multiplayer beta of \"Gears of War 3\" and access to exclusive content. It was later announced that pre-ordering \"Gears of War 3\" in any edition at GameStop in the United States or GAME in the United Kingdom would grant access to the public beta. The \"Gears of War 3\" exclusive beta began on April 18, 2011, a week before the GameStop pre-order beta which began on April 25, 2011. There was in-game content unlockable exclusively for beta testers that included characters and weapon skins. All players that participated in the beta received a medal to identify themselves as beta testers upon the release of the final game. The beta concluded on May 15, 2011.\n\nAccording to Tim Sweeney, \"Gears of War 3\" cost between $48,000,000 and $60,000,000 to develop. The game was officially unveiled on \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\" by Cliff Bleszinski, with a teaser trailer featuring the song \"Heron Blue\" by Sun Kil Moon. Prior to the official reveal, an advert for the game was accidentally displayed on the Xbox 360 Dashboard.\n\nThe game was available for pre-order in three retail versions: Standard, Limited, and Epic. The game also has special character variants based on where the game was pre-ordered. Confirmed variants include Mechanic Baird, Commando Dom, Savage Grenadier Elite, and Savage Kantus. On May 23, 2011, Epic Games confirmed that an exclusive replica Retro Lancer designed by NECA will be available exclusively at GameStop, while a gold version of the replica Retro Lancer is also available exclusively at Play.com.\n\nClayton Carmine, brother of Anthony and Benjamin, of the previous two games, appears in \"Gears of War 3\". Carmine is more competent, witty, and muscular in the third game, with tattoos of his brothers and the reasons they died on his arms (Keep your head down! and Practice reloading!). He was shown wielding a Mulcher machine gun in several released pictures from the game. A vote was held between July 29, 2010 and September 6, 2010 to determine whether Carmine would live or die based on sales of Xbox avatar T-shirts available for purchase on Xbox Live; Epic had developed endings reflecting either choice prior to the conclusion of the vote. Additionally, actual T-shirts were available from San Diego Comic-Con with all purchases. The voting campaign raised over $150,000, which was all donated to Child's Play.\n\nIce-T voices the character of Griffin. It was announced during E3 2011 that Ice-T's band, Body Count, would be reuniting to make a song titled \"The Gears of War\", which was featured in the Horde 2.0 trailer.\n\nAnnounced via Twitter from Cliff Bleszinski, \"Gears of War 3\" will have unlockables just like \"Gears of War 2\".\n\n\nAt the San Diego Comic-Con International Convention, Paul Jr. Designs aka \"PJD\", the company of Paul Teutul, Jr. from the Discovery series \"American Chopper\", revealed their commissioned \"Gears of War\" trike. Discovery episodes chronicled their efforts to build the trike, visits to Epic and them interpreting various merchandising and promotional material into the bike. The team from Epic was impressed and even mentioned the possibility of adding the trike to a future game in the series.\n\nOn 29 August 2011, Microsoft and Epic Games announced a \"Gears of War 3 Season Pass\" that entitles gamers to the first four installments of downloadable content (at a discount) that will roll out over the course of the next year, with the first releasing in November 2011. Previous characters in the series, including Tai and RAAM, will be future downloadable content characters. It has also been confirmed that Story DLC will be available after launch, and that the regular cast of Gears of War will not be in future DLC.\n\nThe first downloadable content is the \"Horde Command Pack\", which was released on November 1, 2011. In addition to new character and weapon skins, it provides three new maps for use in Versus and Horde mode and three new fortifications that the players can build.\n\nThe second downloadable content is called \"Versus Booster Map Pack\". It was released on November 24, 2011 and is available for free. The pack contains five multiplayer maps which includes Blood Drive, Azura, and Rustlung, which were originally made available through the Horde Command Pack; and Bullet Marsh and Clocktower, which will be new to \"Gears of War 3\".\n\nThe third downloadable content is \"RAAM's Shadow\". The expansion was released on December 13, 2011.\nIt includes four new multiplayer characters, a new weapon set named \"Chocolate\", new achievements, and over 3 hours of singleplayer gameplay. The story takes place before the first \"Gears of War\", set in Sera post-emergence day. Zeta Squad is enlisted to evacuate Ilima City and protect the citizens against a Locust Kryll storm. The player will be in the role of General RAAM, the main antagonist from the first \"Gears of War\". Zeta is led by Michael Barrick (from \"Gears of War\" comics fame) and composed of returning characters such as Lt. Minh Young Kim, from the first \"Gears of War\" and Tai Kaliso from \"Gears of War 2\", and also includes a new female character, Alicia Valera.\n\nThe fourth downloadable content is entitled: \"Fenix Rising\", and it was released on January 17, 2012. The DLC includes five new multiplayer maps and also introduced four new character skins and a new system that allows players to rank up through level 100 multiple times.\n\nThe fifth and final downloadable content, entitled \"Forces of Nature\" was released on March 27, 2012. The map pack is based around weather and natural disasters and consists of three new multiplayer maps (Aftermath, Artillery, and Cove), as well as remade versions of Jacinto and Raven Down. On top of the new maps, the DLC also includes four new character models, five weapon skins ready to use immediately, and two unlockable weapon skins. New Easter-egg type weapons, Elemental Cleavers, are introduced.\n\nUpon release, \"Gears of War 3\" received critical acclaim, garnering an aggregate score of 91.49% on GameRankings and 91/100 on Metacritic. Jeff Gerstmann of Giant Bomb gave \"Gears of War 3\" a review of 5 out of 5 stars; stating \"Gears of War 3 is a fantastic follow-up that answers important questions about the nature of the Gears universe while backing it all up with an even bigger, better multiplayer suite.\" IGN called it \"the spectacular conclusion to one of the most memorable and celebrated sagas in video games.\" \"Game Informer\" gave it a 9.5/10, saying that \"\"Gears 3\" is a fantastic idea polished to near perfection by an enormous crew of talented developers and a bottomless budget,\" with \"a constantly shuffling deck of threats that encourage players to experiment with new weapons and tactics,\" \"hilariously over-the-top set piece moments,\" and a \"smart approach to network play.\"\n\nAfter \"Eurogamer\" published an 8/10 review for the game, Epic Games' Cliff Bleszinski reported, saying \"When people rated [\"Gears of War 2\"] higher than [\"Gears of War 3\"], it kind of upset me because I know [\"Gears of 3\"] is a better game on every level.\" His comments were criticized by \"Destructoid\" and \"GamePro\". In \"GamePro\", McKinley Noble argued that \"slamming a 'bad' review that's actually pretty favorable does come off as selfish\".\n\n\"Gears of War 3\" received more than one million pre-orders. The game sold more than 3 million copies during its first week—higher than the previous two \"Gears of War\" entries. It was the second-best selling game only behind \"Madden NFL 12\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44804130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44804130", "title": "Greg Lundgren", "text": "Greg Lundgren\n\nGreg Lundgren is a Seattle-based artist, author, filmmaker and entrepreneur.\n\nVital 5 Productions was a \"one-man arts organization\" for which Lundgren won a Genius Award in 2003. The program created exhibits, publications and issued grants. In 2007, it was the subject of an eight-week 911 Media Arts Center retrospective called \"Straight to Video: the first 10 years of Vital 5\".\n\nLundgren wrote \"The Vital 5 Cookbook\", published in 2006, as a set of \"recipes\" for exhibition and self-expression. The title may have been a reference to \"The Anarchist Cookbook\".\n\nLundgren started Vital 5's Arbitrary Art Grants program in 2009, issuing $500 grants to local artists to \"serve as catalysts to create large-scale group projects and performances\".\n\nIn 2015, Vital 5 Productions retrofitted the 3rd floor of the historic King Street Station in downtown Seattle for contemporary art exhibition. This 22,000 square foot space hosted Out of Sight - a survey of contemporary art in the Pacific Northwest concurrent with the Seattle Art Fair. Giant Steps - a 48 Hour Artist Residency on the Moon, a group exhibition and competition, opened in the space on March 3, 2016. The second year of Out of Sight will launch on August 4, 2016.\n\nHis funeral monument business, Lundgren Monuments, opened in 2004, and he opened a \"death boutique\" showroom on Seattle's First Hill in 2008 including work by other artists such as Jesse Edwards (artist) and Michael Leavitt (artist). Lundgren has been noted for \"bring[ing] more art and design into the world\" of death care, and creating \"a renaissance in the funerary arts in 21st-century America.\"\n\nLundgren Monuments specializes in large-scale cast glass monuments with the intent of bringing more color, light and diversity into the cemetery landscape. They also design and build modern urns and host group exhibitions focused on contemporary design and alternatives to traditional death care.\n\nAn exhibit at Lundgren Monuments in 2010 was called \"the first time in history that a group of architects have focused their talents on the cremation urn as an architectural object\".\n\nAn urn/artwork called \"The Final Turn\", which he collaborated with architect Tom Kundig in designing, was noted in \"Robb Report\" and \"The New York Times\", and is shown in Cooper-Hewitt's National Design Awards gallery.\n\nLundgren, along with mortician and author Caitlin Doughty, TED speaker Jae Rhim Lee, alternative funeral home director Jeff Jorgenson, and other death professionals, founded The Order of the Good Death, promoting alternative death care and putting Seattle in the forefront of this new endeavor.\n\n\nLundgren has written two children's books and one book about making art.\n\nLundgren's feature length one-take film \"CHAT\", starring Rosalie Edholm as a camgirl sex worker, was screened at the Northwest Film Forum in July, 2014, and again in September for Seattle's Local Sightings Film Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15867737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15867737", "title": "Hannelore Schmatz", "text": "Hannelore Schmatz\n\nHannelore Schmatz (16 February 1940 – 2 October 1979) was a German mountaineer. She collapsed and died as she was returning from summiting Mount Everest via the southern route, the first woman and first German citizen to die on the upper slopes of Everest.\n\nSchmatz was on an expedition via the South East Ridge route with her husband when she died at 8,300 metres (27,200 ft). Gerhard Schmatz was the expedition leader, 50 years of age at the time and the oldest man to summit Everest. On the same expedition was the American Ray Genet, who also died while descending from the summit. Exhausted from the climb, they had stopped to bivouac as the night approached, despite the fact that their Sherpa guides had urged them not to. Ray Genet died later that night and both the Sherpa and Schmatz were distressed, but decided to continue their descent. It has been widely reported that at one point Schmatz wanted to rest and she died in her sleep, though this is untrue. At the height of 8,300m Schmatz sat down and said \"Water, Water\" to her Sherpa and died.\nSungdare Sherpa, one of the Sherpa guides remained with her body, and as a result, lost most of his fingers and toes.\n\nGenet's body ultimately disappeared under the snow, but Schmatz's body was swept further down the mountain.\n\nFor years, Schmatz's remains could be seen by anyone attempting to summit Everest by the southern route. Her body was frozen in a sitting position, leaning against her backpack with eyes open and hair blowing in the wind, about 100 metres above Camp IV.\n\nIn 1984, police inspector Yogendra Bahadur Thapa and Sherpa Ang Dorje fell to their deaths while trying to recover Schmatz’s body on a Nepalese police expedition.\n\nChris Bonington spotted Schmatz from a distance in 1985, and initially mistook her body for a tent until he got a closer look.\n\nLene Gammelgaard, the first Scandinavian woman to reach the peak of Everest, quotes the Norwegian mountaineer and expedition leader Arne Næss, Jr. describing his encounter with Schmatz's remains, in her book \"Climbing High: A Woman's Account of Surviving the Everest Tragedy\" (1999), which recounts her own 1996 expedition.\n\nThe wind eventually blew Schmatz's remains over the edge and down Kangshung Face.\n\n"}
{"id": "37518608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37518608", "title": "Helicos single molecule fluorescent sequencing", "text": "Helicos single molecule fluorescent sequencing\n\nThe Helicos Genetic Analysis System platform was the first commercial NGS (Next Generation Sequencing) implementation to use the principle of single molecule fluorescent sequencing, a method of identifying the exact sequence of a piece of DNA. It was marketed by the now defunct Helicos Biosciences.\n\nThe fragments of DNA molecules are first hybridized in place on disposable glass flow cells. Fluorescent nucleotides are then added one-by-one, with a terminating nucleotide used to pause the process until an image has been captured. From the image, one nucleotide from each DNA sequence can be determined. The fluorescent molecule is then cut away, and the process is repeated until the fragments have been completely sequenced.\n\nThis sequencing method and equipment were used to sequence the genome of the M13 bacteriophage.\n\nThe Helicos Genetic Analysis System is capable of sequencing nucleic acids, from several nucleotides to several thousand nucleotides. However, the yield of sequences per unit mass is dependent on the number of 3’ end hydroxyl groups, and thus having relatively short templates for sequencing is more efficient than having long templates. Helicos recommends a length less than 1000nt (nucleotides), optimally about 100-200nt. Long fragments can be cleaved by shearing the DNA (the recommended approach), or restriction enzymes. Short fragments are removed to improve yield.\n\nDNA samples are hybridized to a primer immobilized on a flow cell for sequencing, so it is usually necessary to generate a nucleic acid with an end compatible for hybridization to those surfaces. The target sequence attached to the flow cell surface could, in theory, be any sequence which can be synthesized, but, in practice, the standard commercially available flow cell is oligo(dT)50. To be compatible with the oligo(dT)50 primer on the flow cell surface, it is necessary to generate a poly(dA) tail of at least 50 nt at the 3’ end of the molecule to be sequenced. Because the fill and lock step will fill in excess A’s but not excess T’s, it is desirable for the A tail to be at least as long as oligo(dT) on the surface. Generation of a 3’ poly(dA) tail can be accomplished with a variety of different ligases or polymerases. If there is sufficient DNA to measure both mass and average length, it is possible to determine the proper amount of dATP to be added to generate poly(dA) tails 90 to 200 nucleotides long. To generate tails of this length, it is first necessary to estimate how many 3’ ends there are in the sample and then use the right ratio of DNA, dATP, and terminal transferase to obtain the optimal size range of tails.\n\nIf the tailed DNA targeted for sequencing is hybridized to the flow cell directly after tailing, it would have a free 3’ hydroxyl that could be extended in the sequencing reaction just like the surface-bound primer and potentially confuse the sequence determination. Thus, prior to sequencing, it is also necessary to block the 3’ ends of the molecules to be sequenced. Any 3’ end treatment that makes the molecule unsuitable for extension can be used. Typically, tailed molecules are blocked using terminal transferase and a dideoxynucleotide, but any treatment that leaves a 3’ phosphate or other modification that prevents extension can be similarly effective.\n\nThe single molecule fluorescent sequencing is carried out on a glass flow cell with 25 channels for the same or different samples. The system can be run with either one or two flow cells at a time. In the standard configuration, each channel is equivalent and holds approximately 8 μl. Samples are generally loaded with higher volume (usually 20 μl or more) to ensure even hybridization along the length of the flow cell. Samples are inserted into the flow cell via the sample loader included with the overall system. Each channel is individually addressable, and sample is applied using a vacuum. Hybridization to the flow cell is typically carried out at 55◦C for 1 hr.\n\nGenerally, samples for sequencing are prepared in such a way that the poly(A) tail is longer than the oligo(dT)50 on the surface of the flow cell. To avoid sequencing the unpaired A residues, a fill and lock treatment is needed. After hybridization, the temperature is lowered to 37◦C, and then dTTP and Virtual Terminator nucleotides corresponding to dATP, dCTP, and dGTP are added along with DNA polymerase. Virtual terminator nucleotides incorporate opposite the complementary base and prevent further incorporation because of the chemical structure appended to the nucleotide. Thus, all of the unpaired dAs present in the poly(A) tail are filled in with TTP. The hybridized molecule is locked in place when the polymerase encounters the first non-A residue and inserts the appropriate virtual terminator nucleotide. Because every DNA molecule should now have a dye attached, an image will include all molecules capable of nucleotide incorporation. Also, because the label could correspond to any base, no sequence information is obtained at this stage. Thus, for most molecules, sequencing commences with the second base of the original molecule.\n\nIn order to sequence the hybridized DNAs, it is first necessary to cleave off the fluorescent dye and terminator moieties present on the virtual terminator nucleotides. The current generation of nucleotides is synthesized with a disulfide linkage that can be rapidly and completely cleaved. Following cleavage, the now-separated fluorescent dyes are washed away and then new polymerase and a single fluorescent nucleotide are added. After excitation of the fluorescent moiety by the system laser, another image is taken, and, on a standard sequencing run, this cyclic process is repeated 120 times. The number of sequencing cycles is user adjustable and can be modified depending on user needs for run time and length of read. During a standard run, two 25-channel flow cells are used, with each flow cell alternating between the chemistry cycle and the imaging cycle.\n\nDuring the imaging process, four lasers illuminate 1100 Fields of View (FOV) per channel with pictures taken by four CCD (Charge-coupled device) cameras via a confocal microscope. Though single molecules are visualized, multiple photon emissions are registered for each molecule, with the time spent at each FOV dependent on the brightness of the dye in the particular nucleotide as well as camera speed and detection efficiency. At the present time, the imaging process is the rate-determining step, and run time could be reduced at the expense of throughput by reducing the number of FOV per channel.\n\nUnder optimal conditions, for a standard 120-cycle, 1100 field-of view run, 12,000,000 to 20,000,000 reads that are 25 nucleotides or longer and align to the reference genome should be expected from each channel, for a total of up to 1,000,000,000 aligned reads and 35 Gb of sequence from each run. A full run takes up to 8 days to complete.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54693448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54693448", "title": "Inu no Osanpo", "text": "Inu no Osanpo\n\nInu no Osanpo (犬のおさんぽ), (lit. \"Walk the Dog\") is a dog walking simulation game developed by Wow Entertainment and published by Sega for the Sega NAOMI arcade system in 2001. Players \"walk\" a virtual dog by walking on a treadmill and control the pet with a leash attached to a plastic dog in front of the player. The game was only released in Japan.\n\n\"Inu no Osanpo\" simulates the experience of walking a dog. Players first choose one of six breeds of dog to walk: Poodle, Pug, Pembroke Welsh Corgi, Shiba Inu, Labrador Retriever, or Siberian Husky. The difficulty of the game changes depending on the breed of dog chosen. After selecting a dog, the player selects one of three possible walking routes, each with a unique scenario. Route A, intended for beginners, is a walk to the pet store in order to buy dog food. Route B, of intermediate difficulty, is a simulated walk to a field so that the dog can play with a frisbee. Route C, the most difficult path, takes the player through a city on his/her way home from the dog park.\n\nOnce a dog and route have been chosen, the walk begins. The goal of Inu no Osanpo is to maintain the dog's happiness long enough to complete the entire route. This is displayed in-game via a \"mood meter\" and the presence of musical notes around the dog's head. Players must move the plastic leash-shaped controller to steer their dog away from danger; such as traffic and larger dogs, and towards points of interest such as cats. The player must also avoid garbage and rotten food that is left on the road in order to prevent the dog from eating it and becoming sick. While the virtual dog is never injured, failure to keep the dog out of danger decreases its mood meter. In addition, players must move at the right pace in order to keep the dog happy. Walking too fast will drag the dog and decrease its mood, but walking too slow will cause it to become angry and tug at the leash. By doing well, the player can unlock a bonus stage where they must follow their dog as it chases a runaway cat.\n\nThe game ends when the chosen route is completed, or when the dog's mood level decreases to zero. After the game ends, the player's score is calculated and the distance walked, amount of movement, and number of calories burned are displayed. \n\nIGN called the game \"odd\" and proof that \"Sega is absolutely insane\". \n"}
{"id": "41504968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41504968", "title": "Iván Balás", "text": "Iván Balás\n\nIván Balás ( ; ; 1894 – 1971) was a Yugoslav tennis player of Hungarian ethnicity. He was the one of the first to play for the Yugoslavian team at the International Lawn Tennis Challenge, and later the Davis Cup in 1927. Technically his match was the second rubber of the tie. Apart from team competitions, he clinched international championships for Yugoslavia, Hungary, Austria, Romania and Slovakia in various events.\n\nIván Balás was born in 1894 in Elemir, Bečkerek (renamed Zrenjanin in 1946), Banat, then part of Austria-Hungary and now Serbia. He was born into a wealthy landowner family of ethnic Hungarians, the son of Iván Balás, Sr. (1866, Tápióbicske – 1909, Budapest and Erna Koronghy (1874, Baracháza – 1850, Budapest). Hs family's wealth contributed to his rapid growth in tennis. His Hungarian father ), built two tennis courts in Elemir where his son Iván learned tennis. Iván attended the Nagybecskerek high school. He continued his studies in Budapest.\n\nIn college Balás played tennis as well as basketball, hockey, football and athletics. He began to win club and international tournaments in Nagybecskerek. Balás' first public triumph was recorded in 1922 in the men's singles of the National Championship in Novi Sad.\n\nAt the 1924 Olympics in Paris, he played both singles in doubles. In the men's singles, he was defeated in the first round by Jack Nielsen (Norway). And in doubles, he and Đorđe Dunđerski advanced to the second roundbut lost to Jacques Brugnon/Henri Cochet (France).\n\nIn 1926, he was crowned the champion of Yugoslavia. He was drafted into the Kingdom of Yugoslavia Davis Cup team for the first-ever Davis Cup match against India in Zagreb in May 1927, joined by Đorđe Dunđerski. Although they didn't win a game or set, both of them provided strong resistance. Balás even had two balls to have a chance to serve out the first set in the match against Hassan-Ali Fyzee, but did not succeed, as the Indian player came back to claim the match. On the third ball, the game was suspended due to bad weather, and so the match was decided after the first two days' results. The organizers agreed not to wait on Monday but to pass the remaining two dead rubbers and the victory to India.\n\nBalás next represented Hungary, debuting in a match against Austria. At the time he was fifth/sixth on the Hungarian rankings. In 1930 he earned the second place in mixed doubles at the Bucharest International Championship (lost to Ghica Poulief and Nini Golescu) In Cluj-Napoca he lifted the doubles trophy with partner Béla Kehrling, defeating Romanian champion Constantin Cantacuzino and Alexandru Botez; he also finished third in singles and mixed contest. In 1931 he reached four doubles finals, including the Hungarian Covered Courts tournament mixed and men's doubles, and the Warsaw International Championships doubles and mixed doubles.\n\nIn 1928, Balás was engaged in Hungary, and he was no longer in the Davis Cup team of Yugoslavia. He mostly played and practised in Budapest and joined the Magyar Atlétikai Club. In 1944 he moved to Austria, where he continued his tennis career and got married to Zita Kremmel in 1950. On April, 11th 1951 their daughter Charlotte was born. As of 1951 he lived and worked in France, where he was a devoted tennis player and coach for the rest of his life.\n\nBalás died in Paris in 1971. The tennis club \"Galeb\" in Zrenjanin organizes a traditional tournament each year that bears his name.\n\n"}
{"id": "18435643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18435643", "title": "Jim Corbett (athletic director)", "text": "Jim Corbett (athletic director)\n\nJames Joseph Corbett (November 10, 1919 – January 29, 1967) was an American sports administrator who served as athletics director at Louisiana State University from 1954 until his death in 1967. \n\nCorbett was born in Woburn, Massachusetts and attended high school in nearby Arlington. He graduated from Southeastern Louisiana College in 1944.\n\nIn addition to his role at LSU, Corbett also served as the first president of the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics from 1965–1966, and for more than 10 years was a member of the Sugar Bowl Executive Committee.\n\nHe died of a massive heart attack in New Orleans, aged only 47. LSU President John A. Hunter said, \"Not only is it a tragedy as far as LSU is concerned, but it is a tragic personal loss because we all loved him so much. I think he ran one of the most efficient athletic departments in the United States and we never had an employee more dedicated to LSU than Jim was.\"\n\nThe National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics (NACDA) established the Corbett Award, which is presented annually \"to the collegiate administrator who through the years has most typified Corbett's devotion to intercollegiate athletics and worked unceasingly for its betterment.\" The first recipient was Bernie Moore, commissioner emeritus for the Southeastern Conference.\n\nThree months after Corbett's death, the Sugar Bowl Executive Committee established a memorial award in his name. It honored the most outstanding male or female collegiate athlete of the year in Louisiana, as selected by a panel of Louisiana's sports journalists. \n"}
{"id": "38043575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38043575", "title": "John Crabbe Cunningham", "text": "John Crabbe Cunningham\n\nJohn Crabbe Cunningham (1927 – 31 January 1980) was a Scottish climber. Born in Glasgow, he climbed extensively in the Scottish mountains, where he pioneered new techniques of ice climbing.\n\nFor several years, he worked for the British Antarctic Survey (BAS) of the British Antarctic Territory (BAT). On 23 November 1964, he became the first to climb Antarctica's Mount Jackson. In 1960–61, he was a member of the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey, serving as Station Commander at Stonington Island in 1962–63. He was a member of the British Antarctic Survey, and was Station Commander of Adelaide Island in 1964–65. He was also a member of the South Georgia Survey of 1955–56. He died after a climbing accident off \"sea-cliffs\" of mountains of Holyhead on 31 January 1980, when was carried away by sea waves to his death as he did not know how to swim.\n\nDuring the 1950s and '60s, Cunningham went to New Zealand, India and Antarctica. He wanted to climb to Mt. Everest, and in 1953 he had gone to Nepal via India with Dr. Hamish MacInnes, also a Scottish mountaineer, to start his climb. However, Hillary and Tenzing had made it to the top of Mount Everest before he could begin.\n\nHe then started his career with the British Antarctic Survey. He was the base leader at Adelaide Island. In the 1970s, after he returned to Scotland, he became an instructor at the Glenmore Lodge near Aviemore. In this capacity he perfected innovations in techniques for front point cramponing and use of curved pick ice axes on steep sloping ice. He had used this front point technique while working in Antarctica on icebergs and cliffs with a slope of 70 to 90 degrees. In 1976 he became an instructor at I M Marsh Campus in Liverpool. In 1980, he took his students for practical instruction on climbing to the South Stack cliffs on Anglesey. Here he drowned on 31 January 1980 after being swept into the sea, as he did not know how to swim. His students survived.\n\nCunningham is the namesake of Mount Cunningham () in the Queen Maud Bay at the southern end of South Georgia, His biography, titled \"Creagh Dhu Climber, the life and times of John Cunningham\", was published by Ernest Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "5231601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5231601", "title": "Kole Nedelkovski", "text": "Kole Nedelkovski\n\nKole Nedelkovski (Bulgarian and ) was a Macedonian revolutionary and poet, and member of the Bulgarian Communist Party. He was a member of the Macedonian Literary Circle and he published two poetry books. Today, Nedelkovski is seen as one of the founders of the modern Macedonian poetry.\n\nHe was born in Vojnica, near Veles, Ottoman Empire as \"Nikola Kr(a)stev Nedelkov\". Hunted from the Serbian police he emigrated to Bulgaria in 1933. In Sofia, Nedelkovski joined the \"Macedonian Literary Circle\". Besides Nedelkovski, the most active members of the Circle were Dimitar Mitrev, Gjorgji Abadžiev, Venko Markovski, Nikola Vapcarov and others. Later, he became a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party. He ended his life escaping the police in Sofia in 1941, by jumping from an attic window, or by another version, was thrown out of the window.\n\nHis poem \"A Voice from Macedonia\" (\"Glas od Makedonij\"a) is one of the most famous revolutionary poems in the Macedonian literature. His poetry describes the difficult life of the Macedonian people prior to World War II and glorifies the communist ideas and fight against capitalism. Nedelkovski's poems were published in Macedonian, more precisely on Skopje-Veles dialect. The differences between Standard Macedonian and Skopje-Veles dialect are minor.\n\nNedelkovski published two poetry books:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1778264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1778264", "title": "Lady Octopus", "text": "Lady Octopus\n\nLady Octopus (real name Carolyn Trainer and also known as Doctor Octopus II) is a supervillainess in Marvel Comics. The character is depicted as a protégée to her predecessor of the name and primarily an enemy to Spider-Man and Scarlet Spider (Ben Reilly).\n\nLady Octopus first appearance was in \"Amazing Spider-Man\" #406 (October 1995) and was created by J.M. DeMatteis and Angel Medina.\n\nCarolyn Trainer is the daughter of Seward Trainer who was a student of Doctor Octopus. After Doctor Octopus was killed by Kaine during the Clone Saga, Carolyn replaced the teacher she adored.\n\nShe obtained a set of four tentacles identical to Octavius's and made use of a personal force-field that kept anything from hitting her. However, her tentacles could lash out from the shield at any time during its use. She took the \"Doctor Octopus\" name in honor of her beloved instructor and began a campaign to steal her father's research in merging reality and virtual reality.\n\nWhen she found her father was being protected by Scarlet Spider, she became jealous of the father-son relationship between him and her father. She tried but failed to blackmail her way into gaining Trainer's data by stealing a serum that could cure a seriously ill Mary Jane Watson, resulting in her being beaten heavily by Spider-Man and revealing she was working for the mysterious Master Programmer.\n\nCarolyn continued her efforts to merge reality and virtual reality, ending up in a technological gang war against Mr. Tso and his boss Alistair Smythe with the Scarlet Spider in the middle of it. She hired the Looter, Override and Aura, and the Pro to assist her in this, as well as Stunner (Octavius's lover), and eventually succeeded in defeating Smythe and gaining the technology she needed before the Scarlet Spider thwarted her.\n\nThe Master Programmer was revealed to be a digitized copy of Doctor Octopus' mind and Carolyn's overall plan had been to allow Master Programmer to exist in the real world, effectively resurrecting the original Doctor Octopus. This thwarted, she attempted to claim her father's then-comatose body and was finally captured by the police.\n\nLater, she was involved in the resurrection of Doctor Octopus. The cult group known as The Hand, working for the Rose, dug up Octavius' corpse and brought him back from the dead, albeit with large mental gaps. Carolyn injected him with all the data of the Master Programmer and returned the tentacles to him. She joined him as an assistant and faded into the background.\n\nLady Octopus made a small appearance in \"Secret War\" as Lady Octopus to distinguish her from her mentor. She was given a new suit of armor by Lucia von Bardas and Tinkerer. She and Hobgoblin V were sent to assassinate Captain America, but were defeated. They regrouped to a dock where a small army of Tinkerer's clients where waiting (consisting of Boomerang, Constrictor, Crimson Dynamo IX, Crossfire, Eel II, Goldbug, Grim Reaper, King Cobra, Mentallo, Scorcher, Scorpion, Shocker, Spider-Slayer XIX, Trapster and Wizard). Lady Octopus fought Spider-Man and Captain America when the Fantastic Four join the battle. Just then, Lucia von Bardas activated the devices in the villains' suits linking them together to a giant bomb. After Daisy Johnson deactivated von Bardas, Lady Octopus and the other villains Lucia von Bardas manipulated were all hospitalized with severe injuries.\n\nLady Octopus has been hired by Walter Declun (a former member of Damage Control) to assist Absorbing Man, Hydro-Man, Killer Shrike, a Mandroid, Porcupine II, and Rock to defend him from Black Panther and the Fantastic Four after they uncovered his plot to destabilize all of Wakanda on Doctor Doom's behalf. Walter Declun also upgraded their technological equipment in order to perform the job.\n\nLady Octopus was later seen shortly before the Siege of Asgard when she went on a rampage in New York only to be defeated by Mockingbird and Ronin.\n\nLady Octopus has no superhuman abilities. The harness she uses can act as an extension of her own body, and can lift far more than her human body, provided she braces herself appropriately with other tentacles. The reaction time of these \"tentacles\" is superhumanly fast. The tentacles also enable her to traverse very difficult terrain and cover ground at car-like speeds. The tentacles are also armed with lasers.\n\nThrough the tentacles, Lady Octopus seems able to interface with appropriately equipped computer systems and enter virtual-reality interfaces telepathically.\n\nThe force field the harness projected over her body was resistant to most traumatic concussive force and conventional weapons attack. The weak point of the force field is around the tentacles themselves, something Scarlet Spider took advantage of with his impact webbing.\n\nAside from her harness, Lady Octopus was highly learned in the science of robotics, information technology, applied physics, and mechanical engineering.\n\nA version of her in the MC2 alternate future series \"Spider-Girl\" returned to supervillainy years after Otto Octavius's death, initially reclaiming the 'Doctor Octopus' title. Intending to create mutate soldiers for the mob, Carolyn Trainer briefly turned John Jameson back into Man-Wolf, before beating Spider-Girl in a pitched battle. Later, she freed crime boss Canis from prison in the hope of uniting to take over the criminal underworld and oppose the Black Tarantula; it turned out she was in fact working for the Tarantula, setting Canis up for a fall. Spider-Girl battled her once again and finally took her down.\n\nLady Octopus appears in the \"Spider-Man\" episode \"Between an Ock and a Hard Place,\" voiced by Kari Wahlgren. This version has a Ph.D in electronics and hacked the computers so that she would fake her criminal record and be in the cell next to Doctor Octopus in the Cellar. Doctor Octopus manipulated Carolyn in her alias of Lady Octopus into obtaining some crystals for his modified version of Neuro Cortex to enhance his mind and she gave Spider-Man a hard time with her Octobots. After Spider-Man webbed her down in a seafood restaurant next to a hardware store, Lady Octopus caught up to Spider-Man where she heard that Doctor Octopus used her and goes on the attack. With Miles Morales, Gwen Stacy, and Anya Corazon starting to fight back mentally, Spider-Man works with Lady Octopus to fight Doctor Octopus physically. With the resulting fight placing Doctor Octopus in a coma, Spider-Man admits that Lady Octopus made a terrible supervillain as the police start to arrive at Horizon High. After being told by Spider-Man not to blow her second chance like Doctor Octopus did, Carolyn discards her tentacle harness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "884901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=884901", "title": "Latrell Sprewell", "text": "Latrell Sprewell\n\nLatrell Fontaine Sprewell (born September 8, 1970) is an American former professional basketball player; he played for the Golden State Warriors, the New York Knicks, and the Minnesota Timberwolves. During his time as a professional, Sprewell was named to the yearly NBA All-Star game four times; he also helped the Knicks reach the NBA Finals and the Timberwolves the Western Conference finals. Despite his accomplishments, his career was overshadowed by a 1997 incident in which he choked coach P. J. Carlesimo during a practice, which ultimately resulted in a 68-game suspension.\n\nSprewell's career came to an unexpected end in 2005 when he refused a $21-million three-year contract offer from the Timberwolves, which Sprewell implied would not be enough to feed his children. The Timberwolves offered him nothing more. Since that time, he has made headlines for grounding his million-dollar yacht and subsequently having it repossessed for missed payments, having two of his homes foreclosed upon, and being prohibited from seeing his children.\n\nAfter attending Washington High School in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Sprewell played competitively with the Three Rivers Community College Raiders Basketball Team in Poplar Bluff, Missouri from 1988–1990, and from 1990–1992 with the University of Alabama, where he was a teammate of future NBA players Robert Horry, Jason Caffey and James Robinson.\n\nHe was selected 24th overall in the 1992 NBA draft by the Golden State Warriors. Sprewell, nicknamed \"Spree\", made an immediate impact, starting 69 of the 77 games he played in during his rookie season and averaging 15.4 points per game. His performance would improve over the next few years, leading the team in scoring and playing for the Western Conference All-Star team in 1994, 1995, and 1997, scoring 24.2 ppg in 1996–97, fifth in the league. Additionally, in 1993–1994 he led the league in games played and minutes per game as the Warriors, led by Sprewell and NBA Rookie of the year power forward Chris Webber, made it back to the playoffs. They would, however, lose in the first round to the Phoenix Suns in three games.\n\nThough a four-time All-Star, a significant blemish on Sprewell's career was an incident that took place on December 1, 1997, when he attacked head coach P. J. Carlesimo during a Warriors practice. When Carlesimo yelled at Sprewell to make crisper passes (specifically asking him to \"put a little mustard\" on a pass), Sprewell responded that he was not in the mood for criticism and told the coach to keep his distance. When Carlesimo approached, Sprewell threatened to kill him and dragged him backwards by his throat, choking him for 7–10 seconds before his teammates and assistant coaches pulled Sprewell off his coach. Sprewell returned about 20 minutes later after showering and changing and again accosted Carlesimo. He landed a glancing blow at Carlesimo's right cheek before being dragged away again by the assistant coaches. It was not his first violent incident with the Warriors; in 1995, Sprewell fought with teammate Jerome Kersey and returned to practice carrying a two-by-four, and reportedly threatened to return with a gun. In a 1993 practice, Sprewell fought with Byron Houston, who was 50 pounds heavier than Sprewell and had what many teammates describe as having a Mike Tyson-like demeanor and physique.\n\nSprewell was suspended for 10 games without pay. However, the next day, in the wake of a public uproar, the Warriors voided the remainder of his contract altogether, which included $23.7 million over three years, and the NBA suspended him for one year. Sprewell took the case to arbitration and the contract voiding was overturned, but the league did suspend him for the rest of the season without pay, which amounted to 68 games. He sought to vacate the arbitration contract under the terms of the collective bargaining agreement. His case went through all appeals, and was remanded. During the time he was serving his suspension from the NBA, Sprewell was charged with reckless driving for his role in a 90-mile-per-hour accident that injured two people. He spent three months under house arrest as part of a no-contest plea.\n\nDue to the NBA lockout, Sprewell did not play again until February 1999, after the Warriors traded him to the New York Knicks for John Starks, Chris Mills and Terry Cummings. Sprewell played 37 games for the Knicks that season, playing off the bench in all but four games.\n\nMany pundits felt that signing the volatile Sprewell was too big a gamble for the Knicks to take, but Sprewell himself vowed he was a changed man. The Knicks, who at the time still revolved around veteran All-Star center Patrick Ewing, narrowly qualified for the 1999 playoffs, making the field as the eighth seed in the Eastern Conference. The Knicks navigated past the Miami Heat, Atlanta Hawks and finally the Indiana Pacers, making it as the first eighth seed in NBA history to the 1999 NBA Finals, where they met the San Antonio Spurs, who beat them in five games although Sprewell enjoyed a good series for the most part, averaging 26.0 ppg. He tallied 35 points and grabbed 10 rebounds in the Knicks' 78-77 Game 5 loss, and was subsequently featured on the cover of the September 1999 issue of \"SLAM Magazine\".\n\nSprewell moved into the Knicks' starting lineup for the 1999–2000 season at small forward, and averaged 18.6 points, helping the Knicks to a 50-32 record good enough for the third seed in the Eastern Conference led by Sprewell, Ewing and shooting guard Allan Houston. The Knicks navigated past the Toronto Raptors in three hard-fought games and the Miami Heat in seven even harder-fought games in the first two rounds of the playoffs, en route to the Eastern Conference Finals against the Indiana Pacers. But their quest for back-to-back NBA Finals appearances came to an end when they were defeated by the Pacers in 6 games in the Eastern Conference Finals. Sprewell averaged 19.7 ppg in the series, and the Knicks gave him a five-year/$62 million contract extension.\n\nThe 2000–01 season saw Sprewell step up as the Knicks' leader with Ewing traded to the Seattle SuperSonics, making his only All-Star appearance for the Knicks that year, scoring 17.7 points off the bench. However, despite another impressive season from Sprewell the Knicks would lose in the first round to the Toronto Raptors in five games in those 2001 playoffs. In 2001–02 Sprewell averaged 19.4 ppg, including 49 points in a game against the Boston Celtics, one of three times he scored 40 or more points that season; but it was not enough as the Knicks would miss the playoffs for the first time in 15 years.\n\nPrior to the 2002–03 season, Sprewell reported to training camp with a broken hand, which he claimed occurred when he slipped on his yacht; the Knicks fined him a record $250,000 for failing to report the incident to them. He then sued the \"New York Post\" for claiming he had broken his hand in a fight. Sprewell ultimately lost the lawsuit against the \"New York Post\".\n\nThat season, Sprewell made NBA history as he hit 9 of 9 three-point shots in one game, making the most three pointers without a single miss for the first time en route to a season-high 38 points versus the Los Angeles Clippers. The record has since been tied by then-Chicago Bulls guard Ben Gordon and broken by Nuggets guard Ty Lawson, who made 10 threes without missing in a game against the Minnesota Timberwolves. After that season, in which the Knicks missed the playoffs for the second year in a row, Sprewell was traded to the Minnesota Timberwolves in a four-team trade involving Keith Van Horn, Glenn Robinson and Terrell Brandon.\n\nIn the 2003–04 season, Sprewell became part of the league's highest-scoring trio alongside superstar power forward Kevin Garnett and point guard Sam Cassell. With a 58-24 record, the Timberwolves qualified for the 2004 playoffs as the top seed in the Western Conference. They navigated past the Denver Nuggets in five games, and Sacramento Kings in seven, in the first two rounds of the playoffs. In the Western Conference Finals they met the Los Angeles Lakers, who defeated them in six games thanks to miracle shooting by Laker superstar off-guard Kobe Bryant, still the only appearance by the Timberwolves in the conference finals. Sprewell finished third in team scoring at 16.8 ppg, behind Garnett's 24.2 and Cassell's 19.8.\n\nOn October 31, 2004, the Minnesota Timberwolves offered Sprewell a three-year, $21 million contract extension, substantially less than what his then-current contract paid him. Claiming to feel insulted by the offer he publicly expressed outrage, declaring, \"I have a family to feed.\" He declined the extension and the Timberwolves offered him nothing more. Having once more drawn the ire of fans and sports media, Sprewell had the worst season of his career in the final year of his contract. In the summer of 2005, the Denver Nuggets, Cleveland Cavaliers and Houston Rockets all expressed interest in signing Sprewell, but none ended up signing him.\n\nOne month into the 2005–06 season and without a contract, Sprewell's agent, Bob Gist, said his client would rather retire than play for the NBA minimum salary, telling \"Sports Illustrated\", \"Latrell doesn't need the money that badly. To go from being offered $7 million to taking $1 million, that would be a slap in the face.\" Several days later, Gist said that Sprewell planned to wait until \"teams get desperate\" around the trade deadline in February, and then sign with a contending team -an eventuality that never materialized for him. Gist said that Sprewell would not be interested in signing for any team's $5 million mid-level exception, calling that amount \"a level beneath which [Sprewell] would not stoop or kneel!\"\n\nIn March 2006, Sprewell was offered contracts by the Dallas Mavericks and San Antonio Spurs, both of whom were considered at the time to be strong favorites to win the NBA Championship, but Sprewell failed to respond and remained a free agent as the season came to a close. The Los Angeles Lakers also showed minimal interest in him at the start of that season, but nothing ever came of it.\n\nOver the course of his career, Sprewell started 868 of the 913 games he played in, averaging 18.8 ppg, 4.2 apg and 4.1 rpg with playoff career averages of 19.7 ppg, 3.4 apg and 4.3 rpg. He was elected to the All-NBA First Team at the end of his second season, and to the All-NBA Defensive second team that same year.\n\nSprewell's personal life since he last played in the NBA has been plagued with controversy and financial trouble. In 1994, his four-year-old daughter was attacked by his pet pit bull and bitten in her nose, lips, forehead and one ear, requiring surgery. Much earlier, while attending junior college, Sprewell had been arrested for stealing. In 2016, he appeared in a Priceline.com television advertisement, poking fun at himself.\n\nOn August 30, 2006, Milwaukee police investigated a claim by a 21-year-old female who claimed that she and Sprewell were having consensual sex aboard his yacht, named \"Milwaukee's Best\", when Sprewell began to strangle her. Police allegedly observed red marks on her neck. Police investigating the allegation searched Sprewell's yacht for evidence. On September 6, police declined to press charges. Sprewell then sought a restraining order along with \"civil remedies\" against the accuser.\n\nOn January 31, 2007, Sprewell's long-term companion sued him for $200 million for ending their relationship agreement. She claimed Sprewell agreed to support her and their four children through college.\n\nOn August 22, 2007, it was reported by multiple news agencies that Sprewell's yacht was repossessed by federal marshals after failing to continue paying for and insuring the vessel, for which he reportedly still owed approximately $1.3 million. In addition, while piloted by Sprewell, the yacht ran ashore near Atwater Beach, just north of Milwaukee. Sprewell refused to contract with a professional salvage firm to remove the yacht, which was eventually freed with the help of a local fishing vessel.\n\nIn February 2008 the yacht was auctioned for $856,000 after Sprewell defaulted on a $1.5 million mortgage, and three months later a Milwaukee area home owned by Sprewell went into foreclosure status. Between September 2007 and January 2008, according to documents, Sprewell had failed to make mortgage payments of $2,593 per month. In July 2009 a Westchester mansion owned by Sprewell went into foreclosure status, but that action was dismissed on motion of another party's attorney, Roger K. Marion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26874249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26874249", "title": "Mary Watson (folk hero)", "text": "Mary Watson (folk hero)\n\nMary Watson (born 17 January 1860 – 1881), was an Australian folk heroine. She was 21 years old and had been married less than eighteen months when she died of thirst on No. 5 Island in the Howick Group off Cape Flattery in Far North Queensland, Australia, in 1881. She, with her four-month-old baby, Ferrier, and a wounded Chinese workman, Ah Sam, had drifted for eight days and some forty miles in a cut-down ship's water tank, used for boiling sea slugs, after mainland Aborigines had attacked her absent husband's \"bêche de mer\" station on Lizard Island. Her diary describing their last days was found with their remains in 1882, and Mrs Watson became an emblem of pioneer heroism for many Queenslanders.\n\nMary was born at Fiddler's Green outside St Newlyn East near Truro, Cornwall, England, on 17 January 1860, the daughter of Mary Phillips and Thomas Oxnam, and migrated to Queensland with her family in 1877. Having accepted a position as a governess with an hotelier's family, at eighteen Mary travelled from Maryborough to the isolated port of Cooktown, where she met and married bêche de mer fisherman Robert F. Watson in May 1880.\n\nWatson took her with him to set up a fishing station on Lizard Island, then otherwise uninhabited. In September 1880, Watson left his wife and son behind with two Chinese servants known as Ah Sam and Ah Leung, while he and his partner Percy Fuller made an extended fishing trip in their luggers.\n\nA few weeks later a party of mainland Aborigines of the Guugu Yimmidir group made one of their habitual seasonal trips by canoe to the island, where Watson had set up his household in a stone structure close to a small creek, the island's only supply of fresh water. Mary had probably also inadvertently trespassed on an indigenous ceremonial ground normally taboo to women and children. The Aborigines attacked Ah Sam, who suffered seven spear wounds, and Ah Leung was killed in a vegetable garden he was tending. Mary Watson frightened off the group by firing a gun and then, with a small supply of food and water, put to sea in the iron tank, hoping to be picked up by a passing vessel. The party drifted from 2 to 7 October, occasionally landing on reefs and islets. Mary's final diary entry ended 'No water. Near dead with thirst.'\n\nWhen passing fishing vessels reported the wreck of Mrs Watson's stone cottage, and fires burning on the island, it was assumed that Captain Watson's wife had been kidnapped or killed. Mounted police and native troopers under Inspector Hervey Fitzgerald from Cooktown shot a number of coastal Cape York people—possibly as many as 150— from three mainland groups in retaliation. None of those shot, it would be claimed afterwards, was directly involved in the events.\nThe remains of Mary and her baby were found some months later among the mangroves on No. 5 Howick Island, still in the iron tank, but now covered with fresh rainwater from a recent tropical downpour. Ah Sam had died on the beach nearby. A concealed spring existed on the islet, but they had not found it. When the bodies were returned to Cooktown a procession of 650 escorted them to their burial at Two Mile Cemetery (now Cooktown Cemetery), on the road to the Palmer River goldfields.\n\nFive years later a public subscription was raised to fund the Mary Watson's Monument, a marble drinking fountain in the main street, completed in 1886. The James Cook Historical Museum in Cooktown holds a replica of the iron tank.\n\nIn the intervening years Mrs Watson's story was retold in numerous newspaper and folk accounts, including heroic poems, usually with little attention given to the Aboriginal and Chinese aspect of the events.\n\nA highly dramatic version of the story has been told by Australian author Ion Idriess in one of his a lesser-known titles \"The Opium Smugglers\" (1948), and was touched upon by Robert Drewe in his novel \"The Savage Crows\" (1976). Australian painter Alan Oldfield's series of paintings 'The Story of Mrs Watson, 1881', begun in 1986 and exploring the spiritual dimensions of the events, are now in the permanent collection of the Cairns Art Gallery, North Queensland.\n\nAn Arthur C Clarke character in his 1963 novel \"Dolphin Island\" accurately retells the tale mentioning both Aboriginals and Chinese servants changing only the island's name to Dolphin Island.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30797477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30797477", "title": "Mary of Exeter", "text": "Mary of Exeter\n\nMary of Exeter was a carrier pigeon who flew many military missions with the National Pigeon Service during World War II, transporting important messages across the English Channel back to her loft in Exeter, England. She was awarded the Dickin Medal in November 1945 for showing endurance on war service despite being injured on three occasions and emerging uninjured when her loft was bombed.\n\nMary of Exeter was owned by Charlie Brewer, a cobbler from Exeter. She served with the National Pigeon Service between 1940 and 1945 carrying top secret messages. Mary made four trips from France to England.\n\nShe died in 1950 and is buried in Ilford Animal Cemetery.\n\nMary completed many missions, including three in which she was wounded by enemy attacks, requiring a total of 22 stitches. In addition, she survived a Luftwaffe bomber attack on her Exeter pigeon loft.\n\nOn one occasion she was attacked by German-kept hawks stationed in Pas-de-Calais returning home with wounds to her neck and right breast. She recovered sufficiently and was put back in service two months later.\n\nOn another occasion, Mary returned with the tip of one wing shot off and three pellets were removed from her body. She recovered, passed flight tests, was returned to service despite the shortened wing.\n\nDuring her final trip her neck muscles were damaged by shrapnel. Her owner made her a leather collar to hold her head up, and took her out of service.\n\nMary's loft, located at the Exeter home of a shoemaker named Charlie Brewer who had become a loft keeper and intelligence agent during the war, was damaged during the Luftwaffe's 1942 raids on Exeter, killing many of the pigeons housed there. Mary, however, survived.\n\nA blue plaque was unveiled at 6 West Street, Exeter, EX1 1BA, the site of Charlie Brewer’s home and shoemaker’s shop for 63 years. His pigeon loft was also at these premises. The unveiling took place on 20 January 2018, followed by a celebration and refreshments at the nearby Picturehouse Cinema.\n\n"}
{"id": "50365244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50365244", "title": "Melville Edelstein", "text": "Melville Edelstein\n\nDr Melville Leonard Edelstein (1919June 16, 1976) was born to Nachum and Rose Edelstein in King William's Town. His Litvak parents had first travelled to the UK and then Cape Town in 1896 before joining the masses of \"boere-Jode\" [Afrikaner or farmer Jews] where his parents had settled and Nachum started and ran a successful business.\n\nDr. Edelstein was a sociologist and respected academic and had devoted his efforts to humanitarian and social welfare projects in Soweto. Serving as Deputy Chief Welfare Officer, Dr Edelstein instituted many projects aimed at assisting youth, disabled, poor and marginalized communities within Soweto, where he worked for some 18 years. A practicing orthodox Jew, Melville Edelstein was apolitical & dedicated to serving the good of mankind. He was also a pacifist who refused to enlist for World War II. While employed as a social worker for the Welfare Section of the Non-European Affairs Department, which fell under the City of Johannesburg, he showed great concern for the people of Soweto, where he served for 18 years.\n\nDr Edelstein was one of the two white men who died in the Soweto uprising of 16 June 1976. Dr Melville Edelstein was brutally slain by a crowd of enraged students in Soweto on June 16, 1976.\n\nEarlier on the fateful morning, he greeted students as they passed his offices on Mputhi Street. However once the shock of the police shooting spread through their ranks, high spirits turned to anger, and Dr Edelstein was killed for being a white official in the wrong place at the wrong time. That morning, Dr Edelstein was hosting the official opening for a branch of his Sheltered Workshop Programme in Orlando East, designed to provide employment for disabled people. When news of the student protests reached the project, the ceremony was brought to a hurried end as dignitaries and workers were ferried out of the township.\nConcerned about the safety of a woman colleague, - Pierette Jacques, back at the Youth Centre in Youth Centre in Jabavu – Dr Edelstein drove through crowds of gathering students to get to her office. Edelstein then rushed through the offices, instructing staff to leave immediately.\n\nWhile there an angry mob broke into the building and stoned him to death. Reporter Peter Magubane later found his body with a note saying “Beware Afrikaans is the most dangerous drug for our future.” The reporter said, “If they’d known who he was, this would never have happened.”\n"}
{"id": "15403368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15403368", "title": "Mike Perez (boxer)", "text": "Mike Perez (boxer)\n\nIsmaikel \"Mike\" Perez (born 20 October 1985) is a Cuban professional boxer competing as a cruiserweight.\n\nPerez was a successful amateur boxer in Cuba. In 2005, while competing with the Cuban team at a tournament in Liverpool, he caught the eye of Irish boxing promoter Gary Hyde. Hyde later expressed his desire to turn Perez professional, and to do that he had to arrange his defection from Cuba. In December 2007, under cover of darkness, Perez swam offshore from Cuba, to a boat manned by a Mexican cartel. After transferring through two other boats, enduring storms and depleted food and water supplies, Perez eventually reached Mexican soil nine days later. The Cartel then held him there, until they secured final payment from organizer, Gary Hyde. Upon receiving it, Perez was released, allowing him to board a flight to his new home. On January 10, 2008, Perez touched down in Ireland, where he settled in Cork along with fellow Cubans Alexei Acosta and Luis Garcia. Today, he fights under the nickname Mike \"The Rebel\" Perez, in reference to Cork which is known as the \"Rebel County\".\n\nPerez had over 400 amateur bouts. In 2004, he won gold at the World Junior Championships in Jeju City, South Korea. The southpaw beat Englishman Danny Price in the semifinals, before defeating Russian fighter Nikolay Pavlyukov 38-16 in the final. Perez later beat fighters such as Kenneth Egan and Constantin Bejenaru, but moved up to 201 lbs and initially struggled against world class competition like Luis Ortiz, who beat him in 2006 to become the Cuban national champion. Perez avenged that loss in the 2007 championships, but lost to Osmay Acosta in that year's final.\n\nIn 2008, Perez turned professional under Cuban coach Nicholas Cruz Hernández, who had also moved to Ireland in 1988.\n\nOn 7 May 2011, Perez won the International Prizefighter tournament, held in London, England. Perez faced Kertson Manswell and Gregory Tony, before defeating American fighter Tye Fields in the final to take home the £32,000 prize. After the fight, Perez stated the victory would earn him a world title shot in the near future.\n\nHe then fought and won against American journeyman Zack Page in a rematch on November 9, 2011, in York Hall, Bethnal Green, London.\n\nPerez made his United States debut on 30 December 2011, against the Nigerian heavyweight boxer Friday Ahunanya. The location for the fight was Morongo Casino, Resort & Spa, Cabazon, California. Perez won a unanimous decision, by winning all of the rounds, on the judges' scorecards.\n\nAfter a hiatus through 2012, Perez returned to the ring in May 2013. On the undercard of Wladimir Klitschko vs. Francesco Pianeta, he met American fighter Travis Walker. After 10 rounds, he took the win by way of unanimous decision.\n\nOn November 2, 2013, he made his HBO debut against Magomed Abdusalomov at Madison Square Garden. Perez won by unanimous decision after a brutally-fought 10 rounds. The fight left Abdusalamov permanently and severely injured, as he suffered a stroke and had to go into a medically-induced coma before surgery. Abdusalamov's family later sued the New York State Athletic Commission due to negligence. The lawsuit ended with a $22 million dollar settlement. Perez's form dipped after this fight, as he drew and lost many of his next fights. He would later reveal that he struggled with alcoholism during this time, to the point of getting into the ring drunk a few times.\n\nPerez returned on January 18, 2014 to fight Carlos Takam at the Bell Centre in Montreal. Takam and Perez fought to a majority draw. The fight was shown on HBO on the Pascal vs Bute under card.\n\nPerez then lost a narrow split decision to Bryant Jennings on July 2014 on scores of 114-113 and 115-112 for Jennings and 113-114 for Perez. Referee Harvey Dock controversially deducted a point from Perez in the final round.\n\nOn May 22, 2015 Perez was brutally knocked out by Alexander Povetkin 91 seconds into a WBC heavyweight title eliminator. Following the loss to Povetkin, Perez spent over two years away from the ring, before returning in 2017 as a cruiserweight.\n\nOn July 6, Perez was announced as the final entrant to the cruiserweight World Boxing Super Series.\n\nAt the Draft Gala, which took place on July 8 in Monte Carlo, Perez was chosen by WBC champion Mairis Briedis as his quarter final opponent. On July 22, the WBSS announced the fight would take place in Briedis' home country of Latvia at the Riga Arena in Riga on September 30, 2017. This would be the 8th time Briedis fights at the arena.\n\nBriedis won a scrappy fight in his hometown, beating Mike Perez by unanimous decision after 12 rounds (116-110, 115-111, 114-112). Perez was deducted a point in round 3 following an accidental headbutt. Briedis was also docked a point during round 10 for excessive holding. With the win, Briedis moves on to the semifinals to face top-seeded Oleksandr Usyk.\n\nCruiserweight \n\nAt the Draft Gala, which took place on July 8 in Monte Carlo, Perez was chosen by WBC champion Mairis Briedis as his quarter final opponent. On July 22, the WBSS announced the fight would take place in Briedis' home country of Latvia at the Riga Arena in Riga on September 30, 2017. This would be the 8th time Briedis fights at the arena.\n\nBriedis won a scrappy fight in his hometown, beating Mike Perez by unanimous decision after 12 rounds (116-110, 115-111, 114-112). Perez was deducted a point in round 3 following an accidental headbutt. Briedis was also docked a point during round 10 for excessive holding. With the win, Briedis moves on to the semifinals to face top-seeded Oleksandr Usyk.\n\nPerez resides in Cork, Ireland with his wife Camille.\n\n!\n!Result\n!Record\n!Opponent\n!Type\n!Round, time\n!Date\n!Location\n!Notes\n"}
{"id": "4532665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4532665", "title": "Mosquitor", "text": "Mosquitor\n\nMosquitor is a fictional character in Mattel's \"Masters of the Universe\" toyline, one of the best-selling toylines of the 1980s.\n\nHe is a member of the Evil Horde, he was packaged as the \"evil energy-draining insectoid.\" He is a cyborg creature with a long, pointed metal head, with a needle on the end of the nose-piece which he injects into his opponents to drain the blood from them. He has a transparent metallic chest through which the blood of his opponent can be seen, filling him up to charge him with energy.\n\nMosquitor was introduced into the \"MotU\" toy line in 1987. He was one of the final figures to be released before the toy line's demise, and as a result is one of the rarest. The action figure's special feature is a switch on its back, which when pressed caused his chest to flow with blood.\n\nThe figure came packaged with the mini-comic \"Enter: Buzz-Saw Hordak!\" The comic reveals him as a new minion of Hordak, and his main function in the story is draining the energy of the Sorceress, enabling Hordak to create a fake, holographic Sorceress from her life force. At a later stage in the story, he is set upon He-Man, and almost overpowers him. The comic also hints at a tension between himself and Dragstor; after serving as a test object for Mosquitor's ability, Dragstor clearly resents Mosquitor's great power and his value to Hordak.\n\nMosquitor also appears in the \"MotU\" Marvel comics, where he is able to fly and shoot beams from the needle of his nose-piece.\n\nGiven that he was released so late into the toyline's run, Mosquitor's exposure was minimal throughout the various story media and he never made an animated appearance.\n\nThe action figure first released by Mattel in 1987 is a very rare and sought after collectors item today. Its rare existence can be attributed to being released very late into the toy series original run. The mint condition (known as MOC / Mint on Card) version of this figure can fetch high dollars on auction sites such as eBay.\n\nHe also did not appear in the updated \"Masters of the Universe\" cartoon series, produced in 2002 by Mike Young Productions, or in its tie-in comics. The Horde were intended to be released among the next wave of villains and fill the role of main opposition to He-Man in the show's third season. The second-season episode \"The Power of Grayskull\" features the Horde in a flashback sequence, as an evil force from Ancient Eternia. However, since the toy line and cartoon were canceled shortly afterwards, the third season was never made.\n\nMosquitor was released by NECA as part of Series 6 of the \"Masters of the Universe\" series of ministatues designed by Four Horsemen Studios.\n\nMosquitor was voted No.6 in The 10 Most Unfortunate Masters Of The Universe Toys by Io9. Mosquitor was voted by Mania.com as the second most Crazy Masters of the Universe Figures. Mosquitor was voted No.9 in The 12 Coolest Masters of the Universe Action Features by Topless Robot.\n"}
{"id": "4156434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4156434", "title": "Paul Williams (boxer)", "text": "Paul Williams (boxer)\n\nPaul Williams (born July 27, 1981) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 2000 to 2012. He won the WBO welterweight title twice, in 2007 and 2008; the WBO interim junior middleweight title in 2008; and challenged for the unified middleweight title in 2010. Nicknamed \"The Punisher\", and standing at a height of 6 foot 1 inches, Williams was unusually tall for the three divisions in which he competed. His career was cut short in 2012 after a motorcycle accident left him paralyzed from the waist down.\n\nHis debut was in the year 2000. He is promoted by the Goossens. In 2005 he outpointed former Olympic bronze medalist Terrence Cauthen and, later that year, he knocked out Alfonso Sanchez in 5 rounds.\nHis ESPN debut was a second-round knockout of Sergio Rios on Wednesday Night Fights. Williams made his HBO debut against then-undefeated Walter Matthysse, winning by a tenth-round technical knockout. That was followed by a victory over former junior welterweight world champion Sharmba Mitchell. He knocked Mitchell down three times en route to a fourth-round TKO.\n\nWilliams became the mandatory challenger for WBO Welterweight Champion Antonio Margarito. The match took place July 14, 2007, in Carson, California, at the Home Depot Center with Williams winning a unanimous decision in which turned out to be a close fight where Williams' seemingly stronger finish seemed to seal him the decision victory in the eyes of boxing experts and fans alike.\nWilliams fought Carlos Quintana on February 9, 2008 in his first defense of his title. Williams lost to Quintana by decision in what many considered a minor upset.\n\nWilliams and Quintana had a rematch at the Mohegan Sun Arena in Uncasville, Connecticut on June 7, 2008 for the WBO Welterweight title, at Williams' request. Williams got off to a quick start when a left hand sent Quintana into a daze as several follow-up barrages put Quintana down. He got up, but Williams opened up with dozens of unanswered punches as the referee jumped in to stop the fight while Quintana was going down again.\n\nWilliams was rumored to be moving up two weight classes to fight Kelly Pavlik for the WBC Middleweight title but instead Pavlik himself decided to move up two weight classes himself to fight Bernard Hopkins. Williams fought Andy Kolle on September 25. Williams dominated the fight from the start and recorded a first-round knockout in 1:37 seconds.\n\nAfter failing to secure another meaningful contest at welterweight, Williams vacated his WBO welterweight title in order to fight Verno Phillips for the WBO Interim Light Middleweight title.\n\nOn November 29, 2008, Williams defeated Phillips by way of TKO after 8 rounds after the Doctor stopped the fight. In doing so he secured the WBO Interim Light Middleweight title.\n\nWilliams fought Winky Wright on April 11, 2009, in a 12-round middleweight bout featured on HBO. Williams defeated Wright in a unanimous decision which was not close on the scorecards – two of the three judges gave Williams all but one round while the third scored all 12 rounds for Williams.\n\nWilliams was then preparing to fight Middleweight Champion Kelly Pavlik in a bout scheduled to take place on October 3, 2009 in Atlantic City, New Jersey. The bout was postponed when it was discovered Pavlik had a staph infection in his knuckle and had been rescheduled for December 5. However, the bout was called off for a second time six weeks prior to the fight because Pavlik's infection had not completely healed.\n\nOn December 5, 2009 Paul Williams fought Sergio Martínez in a war of a twelve-round main event. In the first round Martinez was knocked down due to bad balance and a grazing left hand that landed just below the ear. In the final seconds of the 1st round though Martinez scored a knockdown of his own over Williams. The next two rounds were heavily in Martinez's favor as he hit Williams with barrages of counter punches. After Martinez was seemingly won the first 3 rounds, rounds 4-7 showed Williams coming back effectively landing hard lefts to the head of Martinez. In rounds 8-10 Martinez again confused Williams with using different varieties of punches, including straight lead lefts to the body followed by right hooks to the head and straight lefts to the face. The final 2 rounds showed much fatigue in Martinez and Williams but both warriors fought through to the end, although Williams seemed to win both of the last 2 rounds by being the far more active boxer (while the punching exchanges were very closely contested during those final 2 rounds as well), which would ultimately prove to be the difference and as a result of having far superior activity during those final 2 rounds, Williams won a close majority decision over Martinez. The judges scored the fight 114-114, 115-113 for Williams and 119-110 for Williams, thus making Williams emerge as the majority decision winner.\n\nAfter his close win over Sergio Martínez, Paul Williams moved on to face Puerto Rican prospect Kermit Cintrón. The two met on May 8, 2010 Live on Saturday Night HBO Boxing. In the fourth round, Kermit Cintron fell out of the ring unintentionally and was not allowed to continue fighting due to hitting the arena floor. Williams was ahead on two of the three judges' scorecards at the time of the stoppage and was declared the winner by split technical decision. Cintron, who believed he should have been ahead on the scorecards, filed a complaint to have the ruling changed to a no-contest, claiming he was not given the five-minute recovery time allowed under California rules.\n\nA highly anticipated rematch with Sergio Martinez eventually materialized at Boardwalk Hall, Atlantic City, New Jersey on November 20, 2010. Upon the Williams camp's insistence, the fight was contested at the catchweight limit of 158 pounds instead of the middleweight limit of 160, with Martinez's WBC Middleweight title on the line. The fight was billed as a potential \"fight-of-the-year,\" however the fight ended abruptly and dramatically when Sergio Martinez delivered a knockout blow with 2:02 left in the 2nd round. The punch was a short left cross that caught Williams right on the chin as he attempted to deliver a left-hand of his own. Williams' right hand was at his waist when the punch landed, rendering Paul Williams unconscious upon contact.\n\nOn July 9, 2011, Paul Williams fought in a light middleweight contest in Atlantic City against former Cuban amateur sensation Erislandy Lara. Throughout the fight, Lara repeatedly hit Williams with hard left hands and appeared to have won the fight convincingly in the eyes of the HBO crew and those sitting at ringside. However, the judges awarded Williams with a narrow majority decision, a highly controversial verdict that ultimately led to the suspension of the three judges by the New Jersey Athletic Control Board.\nOn May 27, 2012, Williams was severely injured when he crashed his motorcycle in Georgia. He swerved to avoid hitting a car while traveling at about 75 mph on the motorcycle and was launched sixty feet. Witnesses say he landed on his head and his body \"folded like a suitcase.\" The accident left him with a part of his spinal cord severely bruised, paralyzing him from the waist down. Since it was bruised and not severed, it gives him a chance to regain sensation. The doctors told Williams the swelling could go down in a year or two, potentially giving him a chance of walking again. The accident came as Williams was preparing for his PPV main event against Canelo Alvarez on September 15. \"I'm just chilling in a wheelchair because I got tired of walking,\" Williams said in an interview with Jim Gray on \"Showtime Championship Boxing\" on the day he was supposed to fight. \"Whether I am walking or not walking, my game ain't over until the Lord takes my life.\"\n"}
{"id": "2184979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2184979", "title": "Pig-nosed turtle", "text": "Pig-nosed turtle\n\nThe pig-nosed turtle (\"Carettochelys insculpta\"), also known as the pitted-shelled turtle or Fly River turtle, is a species of turtle native to northern Australia and southern New Guinea.\n\n\"Carettochelys insculpta\" is the only living member of the genus \"Carettochelys\", the subfamily Carettochelyinae and the family Carettochelyidae, though several extinct carettochelyid species have been described from around the world. Some literature claims two subspecies, but a recent paper rejects this.\n\nThe pig-nosed turtle is unlike any other species of freshwater turtle. The feet are flippers, resembling those of marine turtles. The nose looks like that of a pig, having the nostrils at the end of a fleshy snout, hence the common name. The carapace is typically grey or olive, with a leathery texture, while the plastron is cream-coloured. Males can be distinguished from females by their longer and narrower tails. Pig-nosed turtles can grow to about carapace length, with a weight of over .\nUnlike the soft-shelled turtles of the family Trionychidae, pig-nosed turtles retain a domed bony carapace beneath their leathery skin, rather than a flat plate. They also retain a solid plastron, connected to the carapace by a strong bony bridge, rather than the soft margin of the trionychids.\n\nPig-nosed turtles are not completely aquatic. Little is known about their general behaviour, as there have been few studies in the wild. Their known extreme aggression in captivity suggests the species is markedly more territorial than most other turtles and tortoises. They seem to display a degree of social structure during the cooler dry season around the hydrothermal vents that line some river systems they inhabit.\n\n\"C. insculpta\" is omnivorous, eating a wide variety of plant and animal matter, including the fruit and leaves of figs, as well as crustaceans, molluscs and insects.\n\nFemales of \"C. insculpta\" reach maturity at 18 or more years, and males around 16 years. They lay their eggs late in the dry season on sandy river banks. When the offspring are fully developed, they will stay inside the eggs in hibernation until conditions are suitable for emergence. Hatching may be triggered when the eggs have been flooded with water or by a sudden drop in air pressure signaling an approaching storm.\n\nUsing environmental triggers, along with vibrations created by other hatching turtles in the same clutch, gives a better chance for survival. Using a universal trigger rather than simply waiting for incubation to finish means they all hatch at the same time. This provides safety in numbers; also, the more turtles that hatch, the more help they have to dig through the sand to the surface.\n\n\"C. insculpta\" is native to freshwater streams, lagoons and rivers of the Northern Territory of Australia, as well as to the island of New Guinea, where it is believed to occur in all the larger, and some smaller, southward-flowing rivers.\n\n\"C. insculpta\" experienced a population decline of more than 50% in the thirty years between 1981 and 2011. Although the turtles are protected in Indonesia under Law No. 5/1990 on Natural Resources and Ecosystems Conservation, smuggling occurs. Some 11,000 turtles captured from smugglers were released into their habitats in the Wania River, Papua Province, Indonesia, on 30 December 2010. In March 2009, more than 10,000 turtles retrieved from smugglers were also released into the Otakwa River in Lorentz National Park. 687 pig-nosed turtles were seized at an Indonesian airport in March 2013. They were reportedly destined for Hong Kong.\n\nPig-nosed turtles have become available through the exotic pet trade, with a few instances of captive breeding. While juveniles are small and grow slowly, their high cost and large potential size makes them suitable only for experienced aquatic turtle keepers. They tend to be shy and prone to stress. They get sick easily, which can cause problems with their feeding, but they are known to eat commercially available processed turtle pellets or trout chow, as well as various fruits and vegetables. Breeding is rarely an option to the hobbyist, as adults are highly aggressive and will attack each other in all but the largest enclosures.\n\nWild populations of this turtle are declining rapidly because of illegal capture for the pet trade. It is estimated that between 2003 and 2013, more than 80,000 individuals were confiscated in 30 seizures in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34927039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34927039", "title": "Pocket World", "text": "Pocket World\n\nPocket World (previously known as \"Pokémon World\") was an unofficial British video games magazine published monthly by Imagine Publishing which focused mainly on the Pokémon franchise of video games, trading cards and anime. The magazine also featured news and reviews for games on all platforms. At issue 125, the magazine changed its title from \"Pokémon World\" to \"Pocket World\" and featured more information on franchises such as Yu-Gi-Oh!, Skylanders and Bakugan, despite this change, Pokémon still was the magazine's main focus.\n\nIssue 174 which came out in 2015 was its final issue.\n\nUnrelated: Pocket World: island of adventure. Google Play game.\n"}
{"id": "7909383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7909383", "title": "Programmable matter", "text": "Programmable matter\n\nProgrammable matter is matter which has the ability to change its physical properties (shape, density, moduli, conductivity, optical properties, etc.) in a programmable fashion, based upon user input or autonomous sensing. Programmable matter is thus linked to the concept of a material which inherently has the ability to perform information processing.\n\nProgrammable matter is a term originally coined in 1991 by Toffoli and Margolus to refer to an ensemble of fine-grained computing elements arranged in space. Their paper describes a computing substrate that is composed of fine-grained compute nodes distributed throughout space which communicate using only nearest neighbor interactions. In this context, programmable matter refers to compute models similar to cellular automata and lattice gas automata. The CAM-8 architecture is an example hardware realization of this model. This function is also known as \"digital referenced areas\" (DRA) in some forms of self-replicating machine science.\n\nIn the early 1990s, there was a significant amount of work in reconfigurable modular robotics with a philosophy similar to programmable matter.\n\nAs semiconductor technology, nanotechnology, and self-replicating machine technology have advanced, the use of the term programmable matter has changed to reflect the fact that\nit is possible to build an ensemble of elements which can be \"programmed\" to change their physical properties in reality, not just in simulation. Thus, programmable matter has come to mean \"any bulk substance which can be programmed to change its physical properties.\"\n\nIn the summer of 1998, in a discussion on artificial atoms and programmable matter, Wil McCarthy and G. Snyder coined the term \"quantum wellstone\" (or simply \"wellstone\") to describe this hypothetical but plausible form of programmable matter. McCarthy has used the term in his fiction.\n\nIn 2002, Seth Goldstein and Todd Mowry started the claytronics project at Carnegie Mellon University to investigate the underlying hardware and software mechanisms necessary to realize programmable matter.\n\nIn 2004, the DARPA Information Science and Technology group (ISAT) examined the potential of programmable matter. This resulted in the 2005–2006 study \"Realizing Programmable Matter\", which laid out a multi-year program for the research and development of programmable matter.\n\nIn 2007, programmable matter was the subject of a DARPA research solicitation and subsequent program.\n\n In one school of thought the programming could be external to the material and might be achieved by the \"application of light, voltage, electric or magnetic fields, etc.\" . For example, a liquid crystal display is a form of programmable matter. A second school of thought is that the individual units of the ensemble can compute and the result of their computation is a change in the ensemble's physical properties. An example of this more ambitious form of programmable matter is claytronics.\nThere are many proposed implementations of programmable matter. Scale is one key differentiator between different forms of programmable matter. At one end of the spectrum reconfigurable modular robotics pursues a form of programmable matter where the individual units are in the centimeter size range.\nAt the nanoscale end of the spectrum there are a tremendous number of different bases for programmable matter, ranging from shape changing molecules to quantum dots. Quantum dots are in fact often referred to as artificial atoms. In the micrometer to sub-millimeter range examples include MEMS-based units, cells created using synthetic biology, and the utility fog concept.\n\nAn important sub-group of programmable matter are robotic materials, which combine the structural aspects of a composite with the affordances offered by tight integration of sensors, actuators, computation and communication, while foregoing reconfiguration by particle motion.\n\nThere are many conceptions of programmable matter, and thus many discrete avenues of research using the name. Below are some specific examples of programmable matter.\n\nThese include materials that can change their properties based on some input, but do not have the ability to do complex computation by themselves.\n\nThe physical properties of several complex fluids can be modified by applying a current or voltage, as is the case with liquid crystals.\n\nMetamaterials are artificial composites that can be controlled to react in ways that do not occur in nature. One example developed by David Smith and then by John Pendry and David Schuri is of a material that can have its index of refraction tuned so that it can have a different index of refraction at different points in the material. If tuned properly this could result in an \"invisibility cloak.\"\n\nA further example of programmable -mechanical- metamaterial is presented by Bergamini et al. Here, a pass band within the phononic bandgap is introduced, by exploiting variable stiffness of piezoelectric elements linking aluminum stubs to the aluminum plate to create a phononic crystal as in the work of Wu et al. The piezoelectric elements are shunted to ground over synthetic inductors. Around the resonance frequency of the LC circuit formed by the piezoelectric and the inductors, the piezoelectric elements exhibit near zero stiffness, thus effectively disconnecting the stubs from the plate. This is considered an example of programmable mechanical metamaterial.\n\nAn active area of research is in molecules that can change their shape, as well as other properties, in response to external stimuli. These molecules can be used individually or en masse to form new kinds of materials. For example, J Fraser Stoddart's group at UCLA has been developing molecules that can change their electrical properties.\n\nAn electropermanent magnet is a type of magnet which consists of both an electromagnet and a dual material permanent magnet, in which the magnetic field produced by the electromagnet is used to change the magnetization of the permanent magnet. The permanent magnet consists of magnetically hard and soft materials, of which only the soft material can have its magnetization changed. When the magnetically soft and hard materials have opposite magnetizations the magnet has no net field, and when they are aligned the magnet displays magnetic behaviour.\n\nThey allow creating controllable permanent magnets where the magnetic effect can be maintained without requiring a continuous supply of electrical energy. For these reasons, electropermanent magnets are essential components of the research studies aiming to build programmable magnets that can give rise to self-building structures.\n\nSelf-reconfiguring modular robotics is a field of robotics in which a group of basic robot modules work together to dynamically form shapes and create behaviours suitable for many tasks, similar to programmable matter. SRCMR aims to offer significant improvement to many kinds of objects or systems by introducing many new possibilities. For example: 1. Most important is the incredible flexibility that comes from the ability to change the physical structure and behavior of a solution by changing the software that controls modules. 2. The ability to self-repair by automatically replacing a broken module will make SRCMR solution incredibly resilient. 3. Reducing the environmental footprint by reusing the same modules in many different solutions. Self-reconfiguring modular robotics enjoys a vibrant and active research community.\n\nClaytronics is an emerging field of engineering concerning reconfigurable nanoscale robots ('claytronic atoms', or \"catoms\") designed to form much larger scale machines or mechanisms. The catoms will be sub-millimeter computers that will eventually have the ability to move around, communicate with other computers, change color, and electrostatically connect to other catoms to form different shapes.\n\nCellular automata are a useful concept to abstract some of the concepts of discrete units interacting to give a desired overall behavior.\n\nQuantum wells can hold one or more electrons. Those electrons behave like artificial atoms which, like real atoms, can form covalent bonds, but these are extremely weak. Because of their larger sizes, other properties are also widely different.\n\nSynthetic biology is a field that aims to engineer cells with \"novel biological functions.\" Such cells are usually used to create larger systems (e.g., biofilms) which can be \"programmed\" utilizing synthetic gene networks such as genetic toggle switches, to change their color, shape, etc. Such bioinspired approaches to materials production has been demonstrated, using self-assembling bacterial biofilm materials that can be programmed for specific functions, such as substrate adhesion, nanoparticle templating, and protein immobilization.\n\n"}
{"id": "525114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525114", "title": "Robert Ettinger", "text": "Robert Ettinger\n\nRobert Chester Wilson Ettinger (December 4, 1918 – July 23, 2011) was an American academic, known as \"the father of cryonics\" because of the impact of his 1962 book \"The Prospect of Immortality\".\n\nEttinger founded the Cryonics Institute and the related Immortalist Society and until 2003 served as the groups' president. His body has been cryopreserved, like the bodies of his first and second wives, and his mother.\n\nEttinger was born in Atlantic City, New Jersey, the son of Russian Jewish immigrants. Despite being raised in a Jewish family, he later on became an atheist. He served as a second lieutenant infantryman in the United States Army during World War II. Severely wounded in battle in Germany, he received the Purple Heart and recovered after several years spent in a Michigan hospital. He earned two master's degrees from Wayne State University (one in physics, one in mathematics) and spent his working career teaching physics and mathematics at both Wayne State University and Highland Park Community college in Michigan.\n\nEttinger had two children with his first wife, Elaine, David (1951) and Shelley (1954). David gave his first cryonics interview to journalists at the age of 12 and was an attorney. He served as legal counsel to the Cryonics Institute and the Immortalist Society. Robert Ettinger's daughter, who has had no interest in cryonics, is a writer and revolutionary socialist.\n\nEttinger met his second wife, Mae Junod, in 1962 when she attended one of his adult education courses in basic physics. Junod typed and assisted with editing the manuscripts for both \"The Prospect of Immortality\" and \"Man into Superman\". She became active in the Cryonics Society of Michigan (CSM) and edited and was production manager for the CSM monthly newsletter, \"The Outlook\". In the 1970s \"The Outlook\" was renamed \"The Immortalist\" and Junod continued editorship until the mid-1990s. \"The Outlook\" is the longest continuously published cryonics magazine. Junod was an author, feminist, and marriage counselor.\n\nEttinger married Junod in 1988 after the death of his first wife. Ettinger described his time with Junod as one of the most satisfying and tranquil times in his life. The couple moved to Scottsdale, Arizona in 1995 and enjoyed a period of domestic life during which time the couple began to ease into retirement from over 30 years of cryonics activism and the attendant burdens of work and controversy. Mae Ettinger suffered a debilitating stroke in 1998 from which she never fully recovered followed by a lethal stroke in 2000, which resulted in her cryopreservation.\n\nEttinger died on July 23, 2011 in Detroit, Michigan of natural causes, and was cryopreserved.\n\nEttinger grew up reading Hugo Gernsback's \"Amazing Stories\". Ettinger was particularly affected when he was 12 years old by a Neil R. Jones story, \"The Jameson Satellite,\" which appeared in the July 1931 issue of \"Amazing Stories\", in which one Professor Jameson had his corpse sent into earth orbit where (as the author mistakenly thought) it would remain preserved indefinitely at near absolute zero. And so it did, in the story, until millions of years later, when, with humanity extinct, a race of mechanical men with organic brains chanced upon it. They revived and repaired Jameson's brain, installed it in a mechanical body, and he became one of their company.\n\nEttinger assumed that one day — long before he grew old — biologists would learn the secret of eternal youth. As he grew out of boyhood in the 1930s, he began to suspect it might take a little longer since no scientists were yet working on this particular endeavor. If immortality is achievable through the ministrations of technologically advanced aliens repairing a frozen human corpse, then Ettinger thought everyone could be cryopreserved to await later rescue by our own medically more sophisticated descendants.\n\nEttinger waited expectantly for prominent scientists or physicians to come to the same conclusion he had, and to take a position of public advocacy. By 1960, Ettinger finally made the scientific case for the idea, which had always been in the back of his mind. Ettinger was 42 years old and said he was increasingly aware of his own mortality. In what has been characterized as an historically important mid-life crisis, Ettinger summarized the idea of cryonics in a few pages, with the emphasis on life insurance, and sent this to approximately 200 people whom he selected from \"Who's Who in America\". The response was very small, and it was clear that a much longer exposition was needed — mostly to counter cultural bias. Ettinger correctly saw that people, even the intellectually, financially and socially distinguished, would have to be educated into understanding his belief that dying is usually gradual and could be a reversible process, and that freezing damage is so limited (even though fatal by present criteria) that its reversibility demands relatively little in future progress. Ettinger soon made an even more troubling discovery, principally that \"a great many people have to be coaxed into admitting that life is better than death, healthy is better than sick, smart is better than stupid, and immortality might be worth the trouble!\"\n\nIn 1962, Ettinger privately published a preliminary version of \"The Prospect of Immortality\", in which he said that future technological advances could be used to bring people back to life. This finally attracted attention of a major publisher, which sent a copy to Isaac Asimov; Asimov said that the science behind cryonics was sound, and the manuscript was approved for a 1964 Doubleday hardcover and various subsequent editions which launched cryonics. The book became a selection of the Book of the Month Club and was published in nine languages.\n\nEttinger became an \"overnight\" media celebrity, discussed in \"The New York Times\", \"Time\", \"Newsweek\", \"Paris Match\", \"Der Spiegel\", \"Christian Century\", and dozens of other periodicals. He appeared on television with David Frost, Johnny Carson, Steve Allen, and others. Ettinger also spoke on radio programs coast-to-coast to promote the idea of human cryopreservation.\n\nSince the commercial publication of \"The Prospect of Immortality\", all those active in cryonics today can trace their involvement, directly or indirectly, to the publication of one or both of Ettinger's books. While Ettinger was the first, most articulate, and most scientifically credible person to argue the idea of cryonics, he was not the only one. In 1962, Evan Cooper had authored a manuscript entitled Immortality: Scientifically, Physically, Now under the pseudonym Nathan Duhring. Cooper's book contained the same argument as did Ettinger's, but it lacked both scientific and technical rigor and was not of publication quality.\n\nFollowing publication of \"The Prospect of Immortality\", Ettinger again waited for prominent scientists, industrialists, or others in authority to see the wisdom of his idea and begin implementing it. By contrast, Cooper was an activist and must be credited with forming the first cryonics organization (although the word \"cryonics\" was not to be coined until 1965) the Life Extension Society (LES). LES advocated immediate action to implement human cryopreservation and established a nationwide network of chapters and coordinators to develop a grassroots capability for delivering cryopreservation on an emergent basis. Cooper left cryonics activism in 1969, and was lost at sea in 1983. But his activities with LES provided the basis for the formation of the first Cryonics Societies.\n\nIn 1966 the Cryonics Societies of California and Michigan were formed. Ettinger was elected President of the Cryonics Society of Michigan (CSM). In the 1970s CSM was transformed under the direction of Ettinger into the Cryonics Institute (CI) and the Immortalist Society (IS). In 1977, Ettinger's mother, Rhea Ettinger, became CI's first patient. Ettinger was President of both CI and IS until 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "26010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26010", "title": "Robert Johnson", "text": "Robert Johnson\n\nRobert Leroy Johnson (May 8, 1911August 16, 1938) was an American blues singer-songwriter and musician. His landmark recordings in 1936 and 1937 display a combination of singing, guitar skills, and songwriting talent that has influenced later generations of musicians. Johnson's poorly documented life and death at age 27 have given rise to much legend. One Faustian myth says that he sold his soul to the devil at a local crossroads of Mississippi highways to achieve success. As an itinerant performer who played mostly on street corners, in juke joints, and at Saturday night dances, Johnson had little commercial success or public recognition in his lifetime.\n\nAfter the reissue of his recordings in 1961, on the LP \"King of the Delta Blues Singers,\" his work reached a wider audience. Johnson is now recognized as a master of the blues, particularly of the Mississippi Delta blues style. He is credited by many rock musicians as an important influence; the blues and rock musician Eric Clapton has called Johnson \"the most important blues singer that ever lived.\"\n\nJohnson was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in its first induction ceremony, in 1986, as an early influence on rock and roll. In 2003, David Fricke ranked Johnson fifth in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's \"100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time\".\n\nJohnson was born in Hazlehurst, Mississippi, possibly on May 8, 1911, to Julia Major Dodds (born October 1874) and Noah Johnson (born December 1884). Julia was married to Charles Dodds (born February 1865), a relatively prosperous landowner and furniture maker, with whom she had ten children. Charles Dodds had been forced by a lynch mob to leave Hazlehurst following a dispute with white landowners. Julia left Hazlehurst with baby Robert, but after two years sent the boy to Memphis to live with her husband, who had changed his name to Charles Spencer.\n\n\"Circa\" 1919, Robert rejoined his mother in the Mississippi Delta area, near Tunica and Robinsonville. They lived on the Abbay & Leatherman Plantation. Julia's new husband, known as Dusty Willis, was 24 years her junior. Robert was remembered by some residents as \"Little Robert Dusty\", but he was registered at Tunica's Indian Creek School as Robert Spencer. In the 1920 census, he is listed as Robert Spencer, living in Lucas, Arkansas, with Will and Julia Willis. Robert was at school in 1924 and 1927. The quality of his signature on his marriage certificate suggests that he was relatively well educated for a boy of his background. A school friend, Willie Coffee, who was interviewed and filmed in later life, recalled that as a youth Robert was already noted for playing the harmonica and jaw harp. Coffee recalled that Robert was absent for long periods, which suggests that he may have been living and studying in Memphis.\n\nAfter school, Robert adopted the surname of his natural father, signing himself as Robert Johnson on the certificate of his marriage to sixteen-year-old Virginia Travis in February 1929. She died in childbirth shortly after. Surviving relatives of Virginia told the blues researcher Robert \"Mack\" McCormick that this was a divine punishment for Robert's decision to sing secular songs, known as \"selling your soul to the Devil\". McCormick believed that Johnson himself accepted the phrase as a description of his resolve to abandon the settled life of a husband and farmer to become a full-time blues musician.\n\nAround this time, the blues musician Son House moved to Robinsonville, where his musical partner Willie Brown lived. Late in life, House remembered Johnson as a \"little boy\" who was a competent harmonica player but an embarrassingly bad guitarist. Soon after, Johnson left Robinsonville for the area around Martinsville, close to his birthplace, possibly searching for his natural father. Here he perfected the guitar style of House and learned other styles from Isaiah \"Ike\" Zimmerman. Zimmerman was rumored to have learned supernaturally to play guitar by visiting graveyards at midnight.\nWhen Johnson next appeared in Robinsonville, he seemed to have miraculously acquired a guitar technique. House was interviewed at a time when the legend of Johnson's pact with the devil was well known among blues researchers. He was asked whether he attributed Johnson's technique to this pact, and his equivocal answers have been taken as confirmation.\n\nWhile living in Martinsville, Johnson fathered a child with Vergie Mae Smith. He married Caletta Craft in May 1931. In 1932, the couple moved to Clarksdale, Mississippi, in the Delta. Caletta died in childbirth, and Johnson left for a career as a \"walking\" or itinerant musician.\n\nFrom 1932 until his death in 1938, Johnson moved frequently between the cities of Memphis and Helena, and the smaller towns of the Mississippi Delta and neighboring regions of Mississippi and Arkansas. On occasion, he traveled much farther. The blues musician Johnny Shines accompanied him to Chicago, Texas, New York, Canada, Kentucky, and Indiana. Henry Townsend shared a musical engagement with him in St. Louis. In many places he stayed with members of his large extended family or with female friends. He did not marry again but formed some long-term relationships with women to whom he would return periodically. In other places he stayed with a woman he seduced at his first performance. In each location, Johnson's hosts were largely ignorant of his life elsewhere. He used different names in different places, employing at least eight distinct surnames.\n\nBiographers have looked for consistency from musicians who knew Johnson in different contexts: Shines, who traveled extensively with him; Robert Lockwood, Jr., who knew him as his mother's partner; David \"Honeyboy\" Edwards, whose cousin Willie Mae Powell had a relationship with Johnson. From a mass of partial, conflicting, and inconsistent eyewitness accounts, biographers have attempted to summarize Johnson's character. \"He was well mannered, he was soft spoken, he was indecipherable\". \"As for his character, everyone seems to agree that, while he was pleasant and outgoing in public, in private he was reserved and liked to go his own way\". \"Musicians who knew Johnson testified that he was a nice guy and fairly average—except, of course, for his musical talent, his weakness for whiskey and women, and his commitment to the road.\"\n\nWhen Johnson arrived in a new town, he would play for tips on street corners or in front of the local barbershop or a restaurant. Musical associates have said that in live performances Johnson often did not focus on his dark and complex original compositions, but instead pleased audiences by performing more well-known pop standards of the day – and not necessarily blues. With an ability to pick up tunes at first hearing, he had no trouble giving his audiences what they wanted, and certain of his contemporaries later remarked on his interest in jazz and country music. He also had an uncanny ability to establish a rapport with his audience; in every town in which he stopped, he would establish ties to the local community that would serve him well when he passed through again a month or a year later.\n\nShines was 17 when he met Johnson in 1933. He estimated Johnson was maybe a year older than himself. Shines is quoted describing Johnson in Samuel Charters's \"Robert Johnson\":\n\nDuring this time Johnson established what would be a relatively long-term relationship with Estella Coleman, a woman about 15 years his senior and the mother of the blues musician Robert Lockwood, Jr. Johnson reportedly cultivated a woman to look after him in each town he played in. He reputedly asked homely young women living in the country with their families whether he could go home with them, and in most cases he was accepted, until a boyfriend arrived or Johnson was ready to move on.\n\nIn 1941, Alan Lomax learned from Muddy Waters that Johnson had performed in the area around Clarksdale, Mississippi. By 1959, the historian Samuel Charters could add only that Will Shade, of the Memphis Jug Band, remembered Johnson had once briefly played with him in West Memphis, Arkansas. In the last year of his life, Johnson is believed to have traveled to St. Louis and possibly Illinois and then to some states in the East. In 1938, Columbia Records producer John H. Hammond, who owned some of Johnson's records, directed the record producer Don Law seek out Johnson to book him for the first \"From Spirituals to Swing\" concert at Carnegie Hall in New York. On learning of Johnson's death, Hammond replaced him with Big Bill Broonzy, but he played two of Johnson's records from the stage.\n\nIn Jackson, Mississippi, around 1936, Johnson sought out H. C. Speir, who ran a general store and also acted as a talent scout. Speir put Johnson in touch with Ernie Oertle, who, as a salesman for the ARC group of labels, introduced Johnson to Don Law to record his first sessions in San Antonio, Texas. The recording session was held on November 23, 1936, in room 414 of the Gunter Hotel in San Antonio, which Brunswick Records had set up to be a temporary recording studio. In the ensuing three-day session, Johnson played 16 selections and recorded alternate takes for most of them. He reportedly performed facing the wall, which has been cited as evidence he was a shy man and reserved performer. This conclusion was played up in the inaccurate liner notes of the 1961 album \"King of the Delta Blues Singers\". The slide guitarist Ry Cooder speculates that Johnson played facing a corner to enhance the sound of the guitar, a technique he calls \"corner loading\".\n\nAmong the songs Johnson recorded in San Antonio were \"Come On in My Kitchen\", \"Kind Hearted Woman Blues\", \"I Believe I'll Dust My Broom\" and \"Cross Road Blues\". The first to be released were \"Terraplane Blues\" and \"Last Fair Deal Gone Down\", probably the only recordings of his that he would live to hear. \"Terraplane Blues\" became a modest regional hit, selling 5,000 copies.\n\nHis first recorded song, \"Kind Hearted Woman Blues\", was part of a cycle of spin-offs and response songs that began with Leroy Carr's \"Mean Mistreater Mama\" (1934). According to Elijah Wald, it was \"the most musically complex in the cycle\" and stood apart from most rural blues as a thoroughly composed lyric, rather than an arbitrary collection of more or less unrelated verses. In contrast to most Delta players, Johnson had absorbed the idea of fitting a composed song into the three minutes of a 78-rpm side. Most of Johnson's \"somber and introspective\" songs and performances come from his second recording session.\n\nIn 1937, Johnson traveled to Dallas, Texas, for another recording session with Don Law in a makeshift studio at the Vitagraph (Warner Brothers) Building, at 508 Park Avenue, where Brunswick Record Corporation was located on the third floor. Eleven records from this session would be released within the following year. Johnson did two takes of most of these songs, and recordings of those takes survived. Because of this, there is more opportunity to compare different performances of a single song by Johnson than for any other blues performer of his time and place. Johnson recorded almost half of the 29 songs that make up his entire discography in Dallas.\n\nJohnson died on August 16, 1938, at the age of 27, near Greenwood, Mississippi, of unknown causes. Several differing accounts have described the events preceding his death. Johnson had been playing for a few weeks at a country dance in a town about from Greenwood. According to one theory, Johnson was murdered by the jealous husband of a woman with whom he had flirted. In an account by the blues musician Sonny Boy Williamson, Johnson had been flirting with a married woman at a dance, and she gave him a bottle of whiskey poisoned by her husband. When Johnson took the bottle, Williamson knocked it out of his hand, admonishing him to never drink from a bottle that he had not personally seen opened. Johnson replied, \"Don't ever knock a bottle out of my hand.\" Soon after, he was offered another (poisoned) bottle and accepted it. Johnson is reported to have begun feeling ill the evening after and had to be helped back to his room in the early morning hours. Over the next three days his condition steadily worsened. Witnesses reported that he died in a convulsive state of severe pain. The musicologist Robert \"Mack\" McCormick claimed to have tracked down the man who murdered Johnson and to have obtained a confession from him in a personal interview, but he declined to reveal the man's name.\n\nWhile strychnine has been suggested as the poison that killed Johnson, at least one scholar has disputed the notion. Tom Graves, in his book \"Crossroads: The Life and Afterlife of Blues Legend Robert Johnson\", relies on expert testimony from toxicologists to argue that strychnine has such a distinctive odor and taste that it cannot be disguised, even in strong liquor. Graves also claims that a significant amount of strychnine would have to be consumed in one sitting to be fatal, and that death from the poison would occur within hours, not days. Johnson's contemporary David \"Honeyboy\" Edwards similarly noted that the poison could not have been strychnine, since Johnson would have died much more rapidly, instead of suffering for three days.\nThe LeFlore County registrar, Cornelia Jordan, after conducting an investigation into Johnson's death for the state director of vital statistics, R. N. Whitfield, wrote on Johnson's death certificate:\n\nThe exact location of Johnson's grave is officially unknown; three different markers have been erected at possible sites in church cemeteries outside Greenwood.\n\nJohn Hammond, Jr., in the documentary \"The Search for Robert Johnson\" (1991), suggests that owing to poverty and lack of transportation Johnson is most likely to have been buried in a pauper's grave (or \"potter's field\") very near where he died.\n\nAccording to legend, as a young man living on a plantation in rural Mississippi, Johnson had a tremendous desire to become a great blues musician. He was instructed to take his guitar to a crossroad near Dockery Plantation at midnight. There he was met by a large black man (the devil) who took the guitar and tuned it. The devil played a few songs and then returned the guitar to Johnson, giving him mastery of the instrument. This was a deal with the devil mirroring the legend of Faust. In exchange for his soul, Johnson was able to create the blues for which he became famous.\n\nThis legend was developed over time and has been chronicled by Gayle Dean Wardlow, Edward Komara and Elijah Wald, who sees the legend as largely dating from Johnson's rediscovery by white fans more than two decades after his death. Son House once told the story to Pete Welding as an explanation of Johnson's astonishingly rapid mastery of the guitar. Welding reported it as a serious belief in a widely read article in \"Down Beat\" in 1966. Other interviewers failed to elicit any confirmation from House and there were fully two years between House's observation of Johnson as first a novice and then a master.\n\nFurther details were absorbed from the imaginative retellings by Greil Marcus and Robert Palmer. Most significantly, the detail was added that Johnson received his gift from a large black man at a crossroads. There is dispute as to how and when the crossroads detail was attached to the Robert Johnson story. All the published evidence, including a full chapter on the subject in the biography \"Crossroads\", by Tom Graves, suggests an origin in the story of the blues musician Tommy Johnson. This story was collected from his musical associate Ishman Bracey and his elder brother Ledell in the 1960s. One version of Ledell Johnson's account was published in David Evans's 1971 biography of Tommy Johnson, and was repeated in print in 1982 alongside House's story in the widely read \"Searching for Robert Johnson\", by Peter Guralnick.\n\nIn another version, Ledell placed the meeting not at a crossroads but in a graveyard. This resembles the story told to Steve LaVere that Ike Zinnerman of Hazlehurst, Mississippi, learned to play the guitar at midnight while sitting on tombstones. Zinnerman is believed to have influenced the playing of the young Johnson. Recent research by the blues scholar Bruce Conforth, in \"Living Blues\" magazine, makes the story clearer. Johnson and Ike Zimmerman (the spelling reportedly given in census records for the family going back to the early 1800s, on his Social Security card and Social Security death notice, on his funeral program, and by his daughters) did practice in a graveyard at night, because it was quiet and no one would disturb them, but it was not the Hazlehurst cemetery as had been believed: Zimmerman was not from Hazlehurst but nearby Beauregard, and he didn't practice in one graveyard, but in several in the area. Johnson spent about a year living with and learning from Zimmerman, who ultimately accompanied Johnson back to the Delta to look after him.\n\nWhile Dockery, Hazlehurst and Beauregard have each been claimed as the locations of the mythical crossroads, there are also tourist attractions claiming to be \"The Crossroads\" in both Clarksdale and Memphis. Residents of Rosedale, Mississippi, claim Johnson sold his soul to the devil at the intersection of Highways 1 and 8 in their town, while the 1986 movie \"Crossroads\" was filmed in Beulah, Mississippi. The blues historian Steve Cheseborough wrote that it may be impossible to discover the exact location of the mythical crossroads, because \"Robert Johnson was a rambling guy\".\n\nSome scholars have argued that the devil in these songs may refer not only to the Christian figure of Satan but also to the African trickster god Legba, himself associated with crossroads. Folklorist Harry M. Hyatt wrote that, during his research in the South from 1935 to 1939, when African-Americans born in the 19th or early 20th century said they or anyone else had \"sold their soul to the devil at the crossroads,\" they had a different meaning in mind. Hyatt claimed there was evidence indicating African religious retentions surrounding Legba and the making of a \"deal\" (not selling the soul in the same sense as in the Faustian tradition cited by Graves) with the so-called devil at the crossroads.\n\nThis view that the devil in Johnson's songs is derived from an African deity was disputed by the blues scholar David Evans in an essay published in 1999, \"Demythologizing the Blues\":\n\nThe musicologist Alan Lomax dismissed the myth, stating, \"In fact, every blues fiddler, banjo picker, harp blower, piano strummer and guitar framer was, in the opinion of both himself and his peers, a child of the Devil, a consequence of the black view of the European dance embrace as sinful in the extreme\".\n\nJohnson is considered a master of the blues, particularly of the Delta blues style. Keith Richards, of the Rolling Stones, said in 1990, \"You want to know how good the blues can get? Well, this is it.\" But according to Elijah Wald, in his book \"Escaping the Delta\", Johnson in his own time was most respected for his ability to play in a wide range of styles, from raw country slide guitar to jazz and pop licks, and for his ability to pick up guitar parts almost instantly upon hearing a song. His first recorded song, \"Kind Hearted Woman Blues\", in contrast to the prevailing Delta style of the time, more resembled the style of Chicago or St. Louis, with \"a full-fledged, abundantly varied musical arrangement\". Unusual for a Delta player of the time, a recording exhibits what Johnson could do entirely outside of a blues style. \"They're Red Hot\", from his first recording session, shows that he was also comfortable with an \"uptown\" swing or ragtime sound similar to that of the Harlem Hamfats, but as Wald remarked, \"no record company was heading to Mississippi in search of a down-home Ink Spots ... [H]e could undoubtedly have come up with a lot more songs in this style if the producers had wanted them.\"\n\nAn important aspect of Johnson's singing was his use of microtonality. These subtle inflections of pitch help explain why his singing conveys such powerful emotion. Eric Clapton described Johnson's music as \"the most powerful cry that I think you can find in the human voice\". In two takes of \"Me and the Devil Blues\" he shows a high degree of precision in the complex vocal delivery of the last verse: \"The range of tone he can pack into a few lines is astonishing.\" The song's \"hip humor and sophistication\" is often overlooked. \"[G]enerations of blues writers in search of wild Delta primitivism\", wrote Wald, have been inclined to overlook or undervalue aspects that show Johnson as a polished professional performer.\n\nJohnson is also known for using the guitar as \"the other vocalist in the song\", a technique later perfected by B. B. King and his personified guitar named Lucille: \"In Africa and in Afro-American tradition, there is the tradition of the talking instrument, beginning with the drums ... the one-strand and then the six-strings with bottleneck-style performance; it becomes a competing voice ...or a complementary voice ... in the performance.\"\nJohnson mastered the guitar, being considered today one of the all-time greats on the instrument. His approach was complex and musically advanced. When Keith Richards was first introduced to Johnson's music by his bandmate Brian Jones, he asked, \"Who is the other guy playing with him?\", not realizing it was Johnson playing one guitar. \"I was hearing two guitars, and it took a long time to actually realise he was doing it all by himself\", said Richards, who later stated that \"Robert Johnson was like an orchestra all by himself\". \"As for his guitar technique, it's politely reedy but ambitiously eclectic—moving effortlessly from hen-picking and bottleneck slides to a full deck of chucka-chucka rhythm figures.\"\n\nIn \"The Story with Dick Gordon\", Bill Ferris, of American Public Media, said, \"Robert Johnson I think of in the same way I think of the British Romantic poets, Keats and Shelley, who burned out early, who were geniuses at wordsmithing poetry ... The Blues, if anything, are deeply sexual. You know, 'my car doesn't run, I'm gonna check my oil' ... 'if you don't like my apples, don't shake my tree'. Every verse has sexuality associated with it.\"\n\nIn \"The Guardian\"s music blog from May 2010, Jon Wilde speculated that Johnson's recordings may have been \"accidentally speeded up when first committed to 78 [rpm records], or else were deliberately speeded up to make them sound more exciting\". He did not give a source for this statement. Biographer Elijah Wald and other musicologists dispute this hypothesis on various grounds, including that Johnson's extant recordings were made on five different days, spread across two years at two different studios, making uniform speed changes or malfunctions highly improbable. In addition, fellow musicians, contemporaries and family who worked with or witnessed Johnson perform spoke of his recordings for more than 70 years preceding Wilde's hypothesis without ever suggesting that the speed of his performances had been altered.\n\nJohnson fused approaches specific to Delta blues to those from the broader music world. The slide guitar work on \"Rambling on My Mind\" is pure Delta and Johnson's vocal there has \"a touch of ... Son House rawness\", but the train imitation on the bridge is not at all typical of Delta blues—it is more like something out of minstrel show music or vaudeville. Johnson did record versions of \"Preaching the Blues\" and \"Walking Blues\" in the older bluesman's vocal and guitar style (House's chronology has been questioned by Guralnick). As with the first take of \"Come On in My Kitchen\", the influence of Skip James is evident in James's \"Devil Got My Woman\", but the lyrics rise to the level of first-rate poetry, and Johnson sings with a strained voice found nowhere else in his recorded output.\n\nThe sad, romantic \"Love in Vain\" successfully blends several of Johnson's disparate influences. The form, including the wordless last verse, follows Leroy Carr's last hit \"When the Sun Goes Down\"; the words of the last sung verse come directly from a song Blind Lemon Jefferson recorded in 1926. Johnson's last recording, \"Milkcow's Calf Blues\" is his most direct tribute to Kokomo Arnold, who wrote \"Milkcow Blues\" and influenced Johnson's vocal style.\n\n\"From Four Until Late\" shows Johnson's mastery of a blues style not usually associated with the Delta. He croons the lyrics in a manner reminiscent of Lonnie Johnson, and his guitar style is more that of a ragtime-influenced player like Blind Blake. Lonnie Johnson's influence is even clearer in two other departures from the usual Delta style: \"Malted Milk\" and \"Drunken Hearted Man\". Both copy the arrangement of Lonnie Johnson's \"Life Saver Blues\". The two takes of \"Me and the Devil Blues\" show the influence of Peetie Wheatstraw, calling into question the interpretation of this piece as \"the spontaneous heart-cry of a demon-driven folk artist\".\n\nIn 1990, Yazoo Records released \"The Roots of Robert Johnson\", a compilation CD of Delta blues recordings (including several of those cited here) which pre-date Johnson and illustrate how his blues output was influenced.\n\nJohnson has had enormous impact on music and musicians, but outside his own time and place and even the genre for which he was famous. His influence on contemporaries was much smaller, in part because he was an itinerant performer—playing mostly on street corners, in juke joints, and at Saturday night dances—who worked in a then undervalued style of music. He also died young after recording only a handful of songs. Johnson, though well-traveled and admired in his performances, was little noted in his lifetime, and his records were even less appreciated. \"Terraplane Blues\", sometimes described as Johnson's only hit record, outsold his others, but was still only a minor success.\n\nIf one had asked black blues fans about Johnson in the first twenty years after his death, writes Elijah Wald, \"the response in the vast majority of cases would have been a puzzled 'Robert who?'\" This lack of recognition extended to black musicians: \"As far as the evolution of black music goes, Robert Johnson was an extremely minor figure, and very little that happened in the decades following his death would have been affected if he had never played a note\". Columbia Records released the album \"King of the Delta Blues Singers\", a compilation of Johnson's recordings, in 1961, which introduced his work to a much wider audience—fame and recognition he only received long after his death.\n\nJohnson's greatest influence has been on genres of music that developed after his death: rock and roll and rock. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame included four of his songs in a set of 500 they deemed to have shaped the genre:\n\nJohnson recorded these songs a decade and a half before the advent of rock and roll, dying a year or two later. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inducted him as an early influence in its first induction ceremony, in 1986, almost a half century after his death. Marc Meyers, of the \"Wall Street Journal\", wrote that \"His 'Stop Breakin' Down Blues' from 1937 is so far ahead of its time that the song could easily have been a rock demo cut in 1954.\"\n\nMany of the artists who claim to have been influenced by Johnson the most, injecting his revolutionary stylings into their work and recording tribute songs and collections, are prominent rock musicians from the United Kingdom. His impact on these musicians—who contributed to and helped to define rock and roll and rock music—came from the compilation of his works released in 1961 by Columbia Records (\"King of the Delta Blues Singers\").\n\nBrian Jones, of the Rolling Stones, introduced his bandmate Keith Richards to this album by Johnson. The blues master's recordings would have as much impact on him as on Mick Jagger. The group performed his \"Walkin' Blues\" at the Rock and Roll Circus in 1968. They arranged their own version of \"Love in Vain\" for their album \"Let It Bleed\" and recorded \"Stop Breakin' Down Blues\" for \"Exile on Main Street\". Jagger, in the role of Turner in the 1970 film \"Performance\", performed excerpts from \"Come On in My Kitchen\" and \"Me and the Devil Blues\".\n\nAlexis Korner, who has been called \"the Founding Father of British Blues\", co-wrote and recorded a song entitled \"Robert Johnson\" for \"The Party Album\", released in 1978. Other examples of the influence he had on English blues and blues-rock musicians and musical groups include the following:\n\nJohnson's revolutionary guitar playing has led contemporary critics, assessing his talents through the handful of old recordings available, to rate him among the greatest guitar players of all time:\n\nMusicians who proclaim Johnson's profound impact on them—including Keith Richards, Jimi Hendrix, and Eric Clapton—all rated in the top ten with him on each of these lists. The boogie bass line he fashioned for \"I Believe I'll Dust My Broom\" has now passed into the standard guitar repertoire. At the time it was completely new, a guitarist's version of something people would otherwise have heard only from a piano.\n\n\"The Complete Recordings\", a double-disc boxed set released by Sony/Columbia Legacy on August 28, 1990, containing almost everything Johnson ever recorded, with all 29 recordings and 12 alternate takes, won a Grammy Award for \"Best Historical Album\" that year. In 2006 Johnson was awarded a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award (accepted by his son Claud).\n\nJohnson's recordings, such as \"Sweet Home Chicago\", have been used by companies and nonprofit organizations for marketing purposes. \"Sweet Home Chicago\" is played at many events in Chicago.\n\nVery little of Johnson's early life is known with certainty. Two marriage licenses for Johnson have been located in county records offices. The ages given in these certificates point to different birth dates, as do the entries showing his attendance at Indian Creek School, in Tunica, Mississippi. That he was not listed among his mother's children in the 1910 census casts further doubt on these dates. Carrie Thompson claimed that her mother, who was also Robert's mother, remembered his birth date as May 8, 1911. The 1920 census gives his age as 7, suggesting he was born in 1912 or 1913. Five significant dates from his career are documented: Monday, Thursday and Friday, November 23, 26, and 27, 1936, at a recording session in San Antonio, Texas; and Saturday and Sunday, June 19 and 20, 1937, at a recording session in Dallas. His death certificate, discovered in 1968, lists the date and location of his death.\n\nJohnson's records were admired by record collectors from the time of their first release, and efforts were made to discover his biography, with virtually no success. The blues researcher Mack McCormick began researching his family background but was never ready to publish his findings. McCormick's research eventually became as much a legend as Johnson himself. In 1982, McCormick permitted Peter Guralnick to publish a summary in \"Living Blues\" (1982), later reprinted in book form as \"Searching for Robert Johnson\". Later research has sought to confirm this account or to add minor details. A revised summary acknowledging major informants was written by Stephen LaVere for the booklet accompanying the compilation album \"Robert Johnson, The Complete Recordings\" (1990), and is maintained with updates at the Delta Haze website. The documentary film \"The Search for Robert Johnson\" contains accounts by McCormick and Wardlow of what informants have told them: long interviews of David \"Honeyboy\" Edwards and Johnny Shines and short interviews of surviving friends and family. These published biographical sketches achieve coherent narratives, partly by ignoring reminiscences and hearsay accounts which contradict or conflict with other accounts.\n\nA relatively full account of Johnson's brief musical career emerged in the 1960s, largely from accounts by Son House, Johnny Shines, David Honeyboy Edwards and Robert Lockwood. In 1961, the sleeve notes to the album \"King of the Delta Blues Singers\" included reminiscences of Don Law who had recorded Johnson in 1936. Law added to the mystique surrounding Johnson, representing him as very young and extraordinarily shy.\n\nThe two confirmed images of Johnson were located in 1973, in the possession of his half-sister Carrie Thompson, but were not widely published until the late 1980s. A third photo, purporting to show Johnson posing with the blues musician Johnny Shines, was published in the November 2008 issue of \"Vanity Fair\" magazine. It was declared authentic by the forensic artist Lois Gibson and by Johnson's estate in 2013. The authenticity of the third photo has been disputed by some music historians, including Elijah Wald, Bruce Conforth and Gayle Dean Wardlow, who considered that the clothing suggests a date after Johnson's death and that the photograph may have been reversed and retouched. In December 2015, a fourth photograph was published, purportedly showing Johnson, his wife Calletta Craft, Estella Coleman, and Robert Lockwood Jr. This photograph was also declared authentic by Lois Gibson, but her identification of Johnson has been dismissed by other facial recognition experts and blues historians. In his book \"Searching for Robert Johnson\", Peter Guralnick stated that the blues archivist Mack McCormick showed him a photograph of Johnson with his nephew Louis, probably taken at the same time as the famous \"pinstripe suit\" photograph, showing Louis dressed in his United States Navy uniform. This photograph has never been made public.\n\nJohnson left no will. In 1998, the Mississippi Supreme Court ruled that Claud Johnson, a retired truck driver living in Crystal Springs, Mississippi, was the son of Robert Johnson and his sole heir. The court heard that he had been born to Virgie Jane Smith (later Virgie Jane Cain), who had a relationship with Robert Johnson in 1931. The relationship was attested to by a friend, Eula Mae Williams, but other relatives descended from Robert Johnson's half-sister, Carrie Harris Thompson, contested Claud Johnson's claim. The effect of the judgment was to allow Claud Johnson to receive over $1 million in royalties. Claud Johnson died, aged 83, on June 30, 2015, leaving six children.\n\nThe Radiolab podcast \"Crossroads\", broadcast initially April 16, 2012, on NPR, raises the possibility that more than one Robert Johnson was traveling around the region making music at the time of the subject's life — perhaps confusing related biographical information. Producers of the show spoke with Tom Graves, Elijah Wald, David Evans, and Robert \"Mack\" McCormick to support this theory. The death certificate attributed to Johnson, for example, indicates on the reverse side that (possibly another) Robert Johnson came to the area to play \"banjo\" (not guitar) and died of syphilis. This could help explain some of the confusion surrounding Johnson's cause of death.\n\nJohnson was also reportedly seen twice after his supposed death, once in 1939 and another time in Memphis in 1941. Tapes of a Ledell Johnson (no relation), indicate an intention to spin a devil-at-the-crossroads story — one that may have transferred somehow to Johnson.\n\nEleven 78-rpm records by Johnson were released by Vocalion Records during his lifetime. A twelfth was issued posthumously. Johnson's estate holds the copyrights to his songs.\n\nIn 1961, Columbia Records released \"King of the Delta Blues Singers\" on vinyl, the album representing the first modern-era release of Johnson's performances, which started the \"re-discovery\" of Johnson as blues artist.\n\nColumbia Records issued a second volume, \"King of the Delta Blues Singers, Vol. II\", in 1970. \n\n\"The Complete Recordings\", a two-disc set, released on August 28, 1990, contains almost everything Johnson recorded, with all 29 recordings, and 12 alternate takes. (Another alternate take of \"Traveling Riverside Blues\" which was released by Sony on the CD \"King of the Delta Blues Singers\" and was included in early printings of the paperback edition of Elijah Wald's \"Escaping the Delta\".)\n\nTo celebrate Johnson's 100th birthday, May 8, 2011, Sony Legacy released \"Robert Johnson: The Centennial Collection\", a re-mastered 2-CD set of all 42 of his recordings and two brief fragments, one of Johnson practicing a guitar figure and the other of Johnson saying, presumably to engineer Don Law, \"I wanna go on with our next one myself.\" Reviewers commented that the sound quality of the 2011 release was a substantial improvement on the 1990 release.\n\nThe National Recording Preservation Board added \"The Complete Recordings\" to the National Recording Registry of the Library of Congress in 2003. The board annually selects songs that are \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" for inclusion in the Registry.\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame included four songs by Johnson in its list of the \"500 Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll\". A memorial to him reads, \"Robert Johnson stands at the crossroads of American music, much as a popular folk legend has it he once stood at Mississippi crossroads and sold his soul to the devil in exchange for guitar-playing prowess.\n\nOn September 17, 1994, the U.S. Post Office issued a Robert Johnson 29-cent commemorative postage stamp.\n\nTribute albums to Robert Johnson include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "48509766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48509766", "title": "SS Isaac M. Scott (1909)", "text": "SS Isaac M. Scott (1909)\n\nSS \"Isaac M. Scott\" was an American Great Lakes Freighter that sunk during the Great Lakes Storm of 1913 in Lake Huron, 6 to 7 miles northeast of Thunder Bay Island (), while she was traveling from Cleveland, Ohio, United States to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States with a cargo of Coal.\n\n\"Isaac M. Scott\" was built in 1909 at the American Shipbuilding Co. shipyard in Lorain, Ohio, USA and launched on 12 June 1909. She was completed on 2 July 1909. Named for the president of the La Belle Iron Works, she served from 12 July 1909 until her demise on 11 November 1913.\nThe ship was long, with a beam of and a draft of . The ship was assessed at . She had a triple-expansion steam engine driving a single screw propeller. At the time of her completion the Toledo Blade called her \"One of the handsomest of the large freighters on the great lakes.\"\n\n\"Isaac M. Scott\"'s maiden voyage was marred by tragedy. At 4:00 AM on 12 July 1909, while traveling northwest about 2 miles off the Whitefish Point lighthouse in a dense fog, the \"Isaac M. Scott\" rammed the SS \"John B. Cowle\". The \"John B. Cowle\" sank within a few minutes taking 14 of her 24 crewmen with her to the bottom. The survivors were picked up by the \"Isaac M. Scott\" and taken back to port. The \"Isaac M. Scott\" suffered damage to about 25 plates, which cost $30,000 in repairs.\n\nIn March 1910, the Virginia Steamship Company settled claims filed by relatives of men lost in the sinking of the \"John B. Cowle\" in the amount of $20,000. Following an investigation and hearings, the United States Steamboat Inspectors at Marquette suspended Captain Rogers and Edward E. Carlton, Pilot, of the \"John B. Cowle\" for 30 days ruling that the \"John B. Cowle\" and the \"Isaac M. Scott\" were sailing too fast for the weather conditions and that the \"John B. Cowle\" had failed to properly signal. F. W. Wertheimer, Pilot of the \"Isaac M. Scott\". The \"Isaac M. Scott\" was subsequently beached for one year.\n\nIn the pre-dawn hours of 9 November 1913, the \"Isaac M. Scott\", loaded with a cargo of coal worth $22,000 bound for Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States left Port Huron, Cleveland, Ohio, United States for the last time. She was one of several big freighters that passed out of the St. Clair River into Lake Huron and straight into the path of the deadliest storm in the Great Lakes history. Captain A. McArthur had been master of the \"Isaac M. Scott\" since her maiden voyage back in 1909 and sailed with 27 other men on the \"Isaac M. Scott\"s last voyage. Had he known how ugly the weather was about to become he surely would have never left port.\nOn Sunday 9 November 1913 at around 10:30 a.m. the \"H. B. Hawgood\" was running before the storm when they spotted the \"Isaac M. Scott\", still heading North and making heavy weather of it, off Tawas Point, Michigan, just hours before the brunt of the storm struck. When communication was restored and newspapers began carrying accounts of the storm the \"Isaac M. Scott\" was only listed as missing. The body of Capt. A. McArthur washed up at Southampton, Ontario, Canada on 11 December 1913 while still wearing his life preserver. One of her lifeboats was found 23 miles north of the Chantrey Island lighthouse, off Southampton, Ontario. All 28 crew members perished in the disaster.\n\nThe sinking of the \"Isaac M. Scott\" resulted in increased efforts by the U.S. Weather Bureau toward better weather forecasting and more rapid communication of storm warnings.\n\nThe \"Isaac M. Scott\" goes down in maritime history as one of twelve vessels lost during the Great Lakes Storm of 1913. A storm described in the book: Lore of the Lakes, as \"The most disastrous that has ever swept our Great Lakes, both from loss of life and property this unprecedented.\". The storm of heavy snow, bitter cold winds and frightening high waves took the lives of an estimated 235 mariners, 178 of which were lost on Lake Huron alone.\n\nThe \"Isaac M. Scott\" remained missing for 63 years. Located by divers in 1976 about 6 miles off Northpoint, Michigan, she rests upside down and is half buried in mud under of water with her nose still pointed into the storm. Her final resting place is now part of the 448 square mile Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve. The wreck lies at ().\n"}
{"id": "22393091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22393091", "title": "Seeker After Truth", "text": "Seeker After Truth\n\nSeeker After Truth: A Handbook was written by Idries Shah, one of the foremost writers on Sufism. It was first published by Octagon Press in 1982.\n\nShortly before he died, Shah stated that his books form a complete course that could fulfil the function he had fulfilled while alive. As such, \"Seeker After Truth\" can be read as part of a whole course of study.\n\nThe book is constructed from a mix of classical teaching tales, letters, question and answer sessions, anecdotes and discussions from dinner meetings. As such it is part of the large corpus of material that Idries Shah disseminated over a 40 year period specifically for people who wished to absorb Sufi patterns of thought and behaviour in the way that he suggested was appropriate and effective for modern times. He described the process in this book in answer to the question, “What is the reason for the way in which your materials are projected in print? I mean, why do you translate some material, represent other portions, use Eastern similes in some and Western psychological terminology and insights in others?”\n\nHe replied, “There are two criteria:\n\n(1) What materials have to be projected at the present time to have the maximum useful effect, and\n\n(2) Who can absorb them and in what format?\n\n“Sufic materials are always presented in accordance with the possibilities. This is because Sufism is not archaeology or hagiography (however much it may resemble them to those who look no further) but effect. Eastern similes that are still viable both in the East and West are used because of this viability. Superseded materials are not regurgitated just because they have been used in former times. Materials are re-presented if this can be usefully done. 'Western' psychological terminology and insights are useful, so they are used.\n\n“Look at the results. The published materials are read and accepted in both the East and West; by scientists as well as theologians, by ordinary readers in addition to specialists of all kinds. In a word, the presentation is effective.\n“If there were no originating impulse from which the material comes and which indicates how it may be used, we would be forced to present Sufi materials like you would any other dead corpus of lore: you would rearrange, prune and present in accordance with subjective assessments. We do not have to do this, since the material itself provides the guidance to those who can descry it. The question, however, illustrates the mind of the questioner more than anything else; for it presupposes that Sufi materials are like those of any other pursuit, capable of being manipulated by rule or whim. Had the questioner taken into consideration the Sufi fact that the Teaching determines its method of presentation, he would not have needed to ask the question.\n\nThe Literary Review wrote that \"Seeker After Truth\" was, “food for many different kinds of study - a book unlike anything our own society has produced until recently, in its richness, its unexpectedness, its capacity to shock us into seeing ourselves as others see us, both personally and as a society.”\n\nRobert Ornstein and Paul Ehrlich, in their book \"New World New Mind\", recommend \"Seeker After Truth\" and other books by Idries Shah \"...for the beginnings of a short course on changing your mind.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "29719523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29719523", "title": "Significant acts of violence against LGBT people", "text": "Significant acts of violence against LGBT people\n\nThis is a list of notable homophobic violence,\ne.g. attacks on victims thought by the attacker to be lesbian or gay and attacked for homophobic motives.\n\nSee list of unlawfully killed transgender people for homicides of transgender people.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2009, the Scottish parliament unanimously passed legislation that means that crimes motivated by hatred of gay or disabled people will now be considered as 'aggravated offences'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "792246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=792246", "title": "Square Kilometre Array", "text": "Square Kilometre Array\n\nThe Square Kilometre Array (SKA) is a large multi radio telescope project proposed to be built in Australia and South Africa. If built, it would have a total collecting area of approximately one square kilometre. It would operate over a wide range of frequencies and its size would make it 50 times more sensitive than any other radio instrument. It would require very high performance central computing engines and long-haul links with a capacity greater than the global Internet traffic as of 2013. It should be able to survey the sky more than ten thousand times faster than before.\n\nWith receiving stations extending out to a distance of at least 3,000 kilometres (1,900 mi) from a concentrated central core, it would exploit radio astronomy's ability to provide the highest resolution images in all astronomy. The SKA would be built in the southern hemisphere, in sub-Saharan states with cores in South Africa and Australia, where the view of the Milky Way Galaxy is the best and radio interference at its least.\n\nThe SKA is projected to cost €1.8 billion, including €650 million for Phase 1. The funding will come from many international funding agencies. The SKA and the European Extremely Large Telescope (E-ELT) are two flagship facilities for ground-based astronomy in the future.\n\nConstruction of the SKA is scheduled to begin in 2019 for initial observations by 2022, but the construction budget is not secured at this stage. The SKA would be built in two phases, with Phase 1 representing about 10% of the capability of the whole telescope. Phase 1 of the SKA was cost-capped at 650 million euros in 2013, while Phase 2's cost has not yet been established. The headquarters of the project are located at the Jodrell Bank Observatory, in the UK.\n\nThe SKA is a global project with eleven member countries that aims to answer fundamental questions about the origin and evolution of the Universe. In the early days of planning, China vied to host the SKA, proposing to build several large dishes in the natural limestone depressions (karst) that dimple its southwestern provinces; China called their proposal Kilometer-square Area Radio Synthesis Telescope (KARST). In April 2011, Jodrell Bank Observatory of the University of Manchester, in Cheshire, England was announced as the location for the project headquarters.\n\nIn November 2011, the SKA Organisation was formed and the project moved from a collaboration to an independent, not for profit, company.\n, the members of the SKA Organisation are:\n\nThe SKA will combine the signals received from thousands of small antennas spread over a distance of several thousand kilometres to simulate a single giant radio telescope capable of extremely high sensitivity and angular resolution, using a technique called aperture synthesis. Some of the sub-arrays of the SKA will also have a very large field-of-view (FOV), making it possible to survey very large areas of sky at once. One innovative development is the use of focal-plane arrays using phased-array technology to provide multiple FOVs. This will greatly increase the survey speed of the SKA and enable several users to observe different pieces of the sky simultaneously, which is useful for (e.g.) monitoring multiple pulsars. The combination of a very large FOV with high sensitivity means that the SKA will be able to compile extremely large surveys of the sky considerably faster than any other telescope.\n\nThe SKA will provide continuous frequency coverage from 50 MHz to 14 GHz in the first two phases of its construction. A third phase will then extend the frequency range up to 30 GHz.\n\nThe frequency range from 50 MHz to 14 GHz, spanning more than two decades, cannot be realised using one design of antenna and so the SKA will comprise separate sub-arrays of different types of antenna elements that will make up the SKA-low, SKA-mid and survey arrays:\n\n\nThe area covered by the SKA – extending out to ~3000 km – will comprise three regions:\n\nThe capabilities of the SKA will be designed to address a wide range of questions in astrophysics, fundamental physics, cosmology and particle astrophysics as well as extending the range of the observable universe. A number of key science projects that have been selected for implementation via the SKA are listed below.\n\nFor almost one hundred years, Einstein's general theory of relativity has precisely predicted the outcome of every experiment made to test it. Most of these tests, including the most stringent ones, have been carried out using radio astronomical measurements. By using pulsars as cosmic gravitational wave detectors, or timing pulsars found orbiting black holes, astronomers will be able to examine the limits of general relativity such as the behaviour of spacetime in regions of extremely curved space. The goal is to reveal whether Einstein was correct in his description of space, time and gravity, or whether alternatives to general relativity are needed to account for these phenomena.\n\nThe sensitivity of the SKA in the 21 cm hydrogen line will map a billion galaxies out to the edge of the observable Universe. The large-scale structure of the cosmos revealed will give constraints to determine the processes resulting in galaxy formation and evolution. Imaging hydrogen through the Universe will provide a three-dimensional picture of the first ripples of structure that formed individual galaxies and clusters. This may also allow the measurement of effects hypothetically caused by dark energy and causing the increasing rate of expansion of the universe.\n\nThe cosmological measurements enabled by SKA galaxy surveys include testing models of dark energy, gravity, the primordial universe, fundamental cosmology tests, and they are summarized in a series of papers available online.\n\nThe SKA is intended to provide observational data from the so-called Dark Ages (between 300,000 years after the Big Bang when the universe became cool enough for hydrogen to become neutral and decouple from radiation) and the time of First Light (a billion years later when young galaxies are seen to form for the first time and hydrogen becomes again ionized). By observing the primordial distribution of gas, the SKA should be able to see how the Universe gradually lit up as its stars and galaxies formed and then evolved. This period between the Dark Ages and First Light is considered the first chapter in the cosmic story of creation and the distance to see this event is the reason for the Square Kilometre Array's design. To see back to First Light requires a telescope 100 times more powerful than the biggest radio telescopes currently in the world, taking up 1 million square metres of collecting area, or one square kilometre.\n\nIt is still not possible to answer basic questions about the origin and evolution of cosmic magnetic fields, but it is clear that they are an important component of interstellar and intergalactic space. By mapping the effects of magnetism on the radiation from very distant galaxies, the SKA will investigate the form of cosmic magnetism and the role it has played in the evolving Universe.\n\nThis key science program, called \"Cradle of Life\", will focus on three objectives: protoplanetary discs in habitable zones, search for prebiotic chemistry, and the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI).\n\nThe headquarters of the SKA will be located at Manchester's Jodrell Bank Observatory, Cheshire, England, while the telescopes will be installed in Australia and South Africa. \nSuitable sites for the SKA telescope must be in unpopulated areas with guaranteed very low levels of man-made radio interference. Four sites were initially proposed in South Africa, Australia, Argentina and China. After considerable site evaluation surveys, Argentina and China were dropped and the other two sites were shortlisted (with New Zealand joining the Australian bid, and 8 other African countries joining the South African bid):\n\nAustralia: The core site is located at the Murchison Radio-astronomy Observatory (MRO) at Mileura Station near Boolardy in Western Australia 315 km north-east of Geraldton on a flat desert-like plain at an elevation of about 460 metres. \n\nSouth Africa: The core site is located at at an elevation of about 1000 metres in the Karoo area of the arid Northern Cape Province, about 75 km north-west of Carnarvon, with distant stations in Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia and Zambia.\n\nOn 10 March 2012 it was reported that the SKA Site Advisory Committee had made a confidential report in February that the South African bid was stronger. The final decision on the site by the project's board of directors was expected on 4 April 2012. However a scientific working group was set up to explore possible implementation options of the two candidate host regions, and its report was expected in mid May 2012.\n\nOn 25 May 2012 it was announced that the SKA will be split over the South African and African sites and the Australia and New Zealand sites. While New Zealand remains a member of the SKA Organisation, it appears that no SKA infrastructure is likely to be in New Zealand.\n\nMany groups are working globally to develop the technology and techniques required for the SKA. Their contributions to the international SKA project are classified as either: Precursors, Pathfinders or Design Studies.\n\nThe Australian SKA Pathfinder, or ASKAP, is an A$100 million project to build a telescope array of thirty-six twelve-metre dishes. It will employ advanced, innovative technologies such as phased array feeds to give a wide field of view (30 square degrees).\n\nASKAP is being built by CSIRO at the Murchison Radio-astronomy Observatory site, located near Boolardy in the mid-west region of Western Australia. All 36 antennas and their technical systems were officially opened in October 2012.\n\nMeerKAT is a South African project consisting of an array of sixty-four 13.5-metre diameter dishes as a world class science instrument, and also to help develop technology for the SKA. KAT-7, a seven-dish engineering and science testbed instrument for MeerKAT, near Carnarvon in the Northern Cape Province of South Africa was commissioned in 2012 and is up and running. As of May 2018, all sixty-four 13.5-metre diameter (44.3 feet) dish antennae have been completed with verification tests underway to ensure the instruments are functioning correctly. The dishes will be equipped with a number of high performance single pixel feeds to cover frequencies from 580 MHz up to 14 GHz.\n\nThe Murchison Widefield Array is a low-frequency radio array operating in the frequency range 80–300 MHz also under construction at the Murchison Radio-astronomy Observatory site in Western Australia.\n\n\nThe Allen Telescope Array uses innovative 6.1m offset Gregorian dishes equipped with wide band single feeds covering frequencies from 500 MHz to 11 GHz. The 42-element array now in operation is to be extended to 350 elements. The dish design has explored methods of low-cost manufacture.\n\nLOFAR—a €150 million Dutch-led project—is building a novel low frequency phased aperture arrays spread over northern Europe. An all-electronic telescope covering low frequencies from 10 to 240 MHz, it came online from 2009 to 2011. LOFAR is currently developing crucial processing techniques vital to the SKA.\n\n\nThe amount of sensory information collected pose a huge storage problem and require real-time signal processing to reduce the information to relevant data. In mid 2011 it was estimated the array could generate an exabyte a day of raw data, which could be compressed to around 10 petabytes.\n\nThe Technology Development Project, or TDP, is a US$12 million project to specifically develop dish and feed technology for the SKA. It is operated by a consortium of universities led by Cornell University and was completed in 2012.\n\nThe SKA was originally conceived in 1991 with an international working group set up in 1993. This led to the signing of the first Memorandum of Agreement in 2000. Considerable early development work then followed. This culminated in the commencement of PrepSKA in 2008 leading to a full SKA design in 2012. Construction of Phase 1 will take place from 2018 to 2020 providing an operational array capable of carrying out the first science. Phase 2 will then follow for completion in 2025 providing full sensitivity for frequencies up to at least 14 GHz.\n\nPotential risks for priority astronomical sites in South Africa are protected by the Astronomy Geographic Advantage Act of 2007. Put in place to specifically support the South African SKA bid, it outlaws all activities that could endanger scientific operation of core astronomical instruments. In 2010, concerns were raised over the will to enforce this law when Royal Dutch Shell applied to explore the Karoo for shale gas using hydraulic fracturing, an activity that would have the potential to increase radio interference at the site.\n\nAn identified remote station location for the southern African array in Mozambique was subject to flooding and excluded from the project,\ndespite the SKA Site Selection Committee technical analysis reporting that all African remote stations could implement flood mitigation solutions.\n\nAustralia's first radio quiet zone was established by the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) on 11 April 2005 specifically to protect and maintain the current \"radio-quietness\" of the main Australian SKA site at the Murchison Radio-astronomy Observatory.\n\nIn February 2012, a former Australian SKA Committee chairman raised concerns with South African media about risks at the Australian candidate site, particularly in terms of cost, mining interference and land agreements. SKA Australia stated that all points had been addressed in the site bid.\n\nDuring 2014, South Africa experienced a month-long strike action by the National Union of Metalworkers (NUMSA), which added to the delays of the installation of dishes. The plan was to have six dishes operational by November, but only one MeerKAT dish stands on the Karoo site in the Northern Cape.\n\nThe largest risk to the overall project is probably its budget, which up until now has not been committed.\n\nThere has been opposition to the project from farmers and businesses, as well as individuals, since the project's inception. The advocacy group called Save the Karoo has stated that the radio quiet zone will create further unemployment in the region where unemployment is already above 32%. Farmers had stated that the agriculture-based economy in the Karoo would collapse if they were forced to sell their land.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22063516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22063516", "title": "Supramolecular chirality", "text": "Supramolecular chirality\n\nIn chemistry, the term supramolecular chirality is used to describe supramolecular assemblies that are non-superposable on their mirror images.\n\nChirality in supramolecular chemistry implies the non-symmetric arrangement of molecular components in a non-covalent assembly. Chirality may arise in a supramolecular system if one of its component is chiral or if achiral components arrange in a non symmetrical way to produce a supermolecule that is chiral.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "14959629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14959629", "title": "Terrorist training camp", "text": "Terrorist training camp\n\nA terrorist training camp is a facility established to train individuals in the ways of terrorism, often without the consent of the trainees. By teaching them the methods and tactics of terrorism, those conducting such facilities aim to create an \"army\" of individuals who will do their bidding. They are often located in, but not confined to, regions where it is intended that acts of terrorism will be carried out, or in traditional areas of extremism, such as Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia. Wide-open spaces such as parks and wilderness areas are common sites for these camps.\n\nMost camps are located in the Middle East, with the most infamous in Syria and the Arabian peninsula. Many camps are located in regions of conflict. The call to jihad has seen many Muslims enter such camps, followed by US drone strikes.\n\nThese encampments provide recruits with weapons training, protocol training, interaction with skilled veterans, and a secure geographic location for operations. Recruits are regularly indoctrinated in the goals and beliefs of the organization. Organizational leaders attempt to isolate recruits from their outside social connections and force them to establish a new identity. This allows the organization to become the “family” of the recruit and generate loyalty to the organization’s goals.\n\nDepending on the type of organization, the religion and “strength of faith” of the recruit is often an indicator of their status within the organization. Those who are not willing to comply, even after completion of training, are often punished and undergo training to strengthen their observance. Terrorist recruits are tested on knowledge of their religion and of rival groups. Recruiters do this to verify that each recruit has the necessary beliefs, which ensures organizational unification. Religious verification ensures that each member is working towards mutual goals.\n\nRecruiters use techniques that exploit or create mental trauma in order to produce a dissociated mindset in recruits — a condition in which the identity and awareness of the recruit is reset. Typical recruits look to join terrorist organizations because they are angry, alienated and/or disenfranchised. Common thought processes include: believing that their current political involvement does not give them the power to effect change; identifying with perceived victims of the perceived social injustice they are fighting; feeling the need to take action; believing that violence is not immoral; having friends or family sympathetic to the cause; and craving social and psychological rewards such as adventure, camaraderie, and a heightened sense of identity. Internet and cyber-skills are sought after as technically knowledgeable recruits can help the organization.\n\nMany terrorist organizations train recruits in guerrilla warfare. Recruits must be in shape in order to learn these tactics. An ISIS workout video shows that cardiovascular fitness is important. Recruits often train in full uniform, with weapons in hand. Recruits need to be able to survive in their environment with little nourishment. Recruits learn that if success is not attained, they will not be rescued.\n"}
{"id": "26643955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26643955", "title": "Three-twist knot", "text": "Three-twist knot\n\nIn knot theory, the three-twist knot is the twist knot with three-half twists. It is listed as the 5 knot in the Alexander-Briggs notation, and is one of two knots with crossing number five, the other being the cinquefoil knot.\n\nThe three-twist knot is a prime knot, and it is invertible but not amphichiral. Its Alexander polynomial is\n\nits Conway polynomial is\n\nand its Jones polynomial is\n\nBecause the Alexander polynomial is not monic, the three-twist knot is not fibered.\n\nThe three-twist knot is a hyperbolic knot, with its complement having a volume of approximately 2.82812.\n\nIf the fibre of the knot in the initial image of this page were cut at the bottom right of the image, and the ends were pulled apart, it would result in a single-stranded figure-of-nine knot (not the figure-of-nine loop).\n"}
{"id": "44426126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44426126", "title": "Victim surcharge", "text": "Victim surcharge\n\nIn the legal system of England and Wales, the victim surcharge is a penalty applied to people convicted of offences, in addition to a conditional discharge, a fine, or a community or custodial sentence, in order to provide compensation for the victims of crime.\n\nThe surcharge is not paid directly to the criminal's victim, but is pooled and distributed through the Victim and Witness General Fund. The amount to be paid is specified by law, and courts have no discretion to reduce the amount, nor to waive the surcharge, even for defendants of limited means. The law journalist Joshua Rozenberg has reported cases where a surcharge levied against a young person became the responsibility of their parents - even when a parent was the victim of the crime in question.\n\nThe surcharge was first introduced in 2007. From 1 September 2014, the discretion of magistrates' courts to apply additional custody days in lieu of the surcharge was withdrawn.\n\nFor offences committed after 8 April 2016, the amount of the surcharge, depending on the penalty awarded, is:\n\n\nOther figures apply for legal persons who are not individuals; and offenders aged under 18.\n\nOfficial figures show that £51m was raised, between 2010 and 2014.\n"}
{"id": "58485407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58485407", "title": "Vladimir Usov", "text": "Vladimir Usov\n\nVladimir Aleksandrovich Usov (1957 - 2006), known as the \"The Hunter of Boys\", was a Soviet-Russian serial killer who raped and killed little boys. One of the youngest serial killers (began to kill at 17 years of age), he was declared insane and spent 30 years in psychiatric hospitals. \n\nUsov grew up in a drinking family. From the 5th grade, he dropped out of school unexpectedly, claiming that he had heard some voices that told him not to go to school. His parents took him to a psychiatrist, who diagnosed Vladimir with paranoid schizophrenia. Thus, at the age of 14, Usov received 2 disability groups and a small pension.\n\nAt the age of 17, voices began to call for Usov to perform acts of a pederastic nature. The first murder he committed occurred in Kuybyshev on August 1, 1974, when an 8-year-old boy named Boris, who had been missing since July 30, was killed. On that day, the boy was playing in the courtyard of his house when a man in a sports suit came up to him and suggested going to a nearby forest to collect nuts. No one else saw the boy after that. This was the coroner's report:After that, Usov killed four more boys. After the murder of 7-year-old Valery in Tolyatti, a witness reported seeing suspicious people who made strange signs to each other. Rehearsing this version, the senior inspector of the Criminal Investigation, Gronid Simakov, entered the company of several homosexual people. The murder of two of the victims was initially attributed to the physics teacher Petr Popov. He willingly took the blame, wishing to die, because during the investigation his sexuality was revealed, writing a death letter and twice trying to hang himself in his cell. While studying Popov's testimony, Simakov realized that the suspect was innocent, and informed the authorities about this. Employees of the criminal investigation department had already reported to Moscow about \"exposing\" Popov and began to pressure Simakov, threatening him with court, and he was removed from office. However, Simakov stood his ground, and it was impossible to condemn the innocent Popov.\n\nThe last murder Usov committed was on June 17, 1975 in the Goreliy Khutor village. After raping and strangling a child, he collected a heap of dry brushwood, flunked the boy's body with it and set it on fire. He was arrested soon after.\n\nOn June 1, 1977, the Kuybyshev Regional Court ruled that Vladimir Usov be sent to compulsory treatment in a psychiatric clinic. For 18 years he was kept in a specialized clinic in Kazan, and then transferred to a clinic in Samara, where he managed to escape from in 1996. He kidnapped two boys whom he was going to kill, but was too afraid. The next day he was captured and sent to the Kazan clinic for especially dangerous insane people, where he died in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9633961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9633961", "title": "Washing out mouth with soap", "text": "Washing out mouth with soap\n\nWashing out mouth with soap is a traditional form of physical punishment that consists in placing soap, or a similar cleansing agent, inside a person's mouth so that the person will taste it, inducing what most people consider an unpleasant experience. This form of punishment was especially common in the United States and United Kingdom from the late 19th century through the 1960s.\n\nWashing out mouth with soap is most often used as a response to profanity, lying, biting, tobacco use, or verbal disrespect. It functions both as a symbolic \"cleansing\" following the infraction, as well as acting as a deterrent due to the foul aftertaste. It is commonly used as child discipline or school discipline, and is more frequently employed by mothers than fathers.\n\nThis punishment still has advocates today, even though its use has diminished considerably in recent years in favour of discipline methods that are not considered violent or humiliating. Additionally, ingestion of soaps and detergents can have potentially serious health consequences, and persons utilizing this form of punishment may face legal sanctions.\n\nWashing out mouth with soap is essentially defined by the introduction of soap, or a soap-like cleansing agent, into the oral cavity. Methods commonly used for this purpose include placing a bar of soap in a person's mouth and forcing them to hold it there, chew it, and/or swallow it; forcing a person to drink liquid soap or another liquid cleanser or to swish such liquids in their mouth; and using a toothbrush to brush the used cleaning product onto a person's teeth and oral tissues.\n\nWashing out mouth with soap is meant to be unpleasant, but is usually not intended to cause death or serious harm. Nonetheless, many people employ the aforementioned techniques with extremely limited knowledge regarding the safety of ingesting their chosen cleansing agents. Agents likely to cause serious harm if swallowed include many automatic dishwasher detergents and laundry detergents. Even ordinary bar soaps and liquid hand soaps may cause harmful effects including vomiting, diarrhea, irritation of the lining of the mouth and digestive tract, and in rare instances, pulmonary aspiration. This is especially true if these products are ingested in large quantities.\n\nOne of the earliest recorded uses of forcing another to ingest soap as punishment appeared in the 1832 Legal Examiner, in which it was noted that a married couple \"were constantly quarrelling ; and that one evening, on the man's return home, he found his wife intoxicated, [...] perceiving a piece of kitchen soap lying on the ground near the spot, he crammed it into his wife's mouth, saying, \"She has had plenty of water to wash with, she ought now to have a little soap\".\n\nIn the 1860s, the periodical Aunt Judy's Annual Volume featured the main characters forced to eat a bar of soap as punishment for constantly failing to wash up, as the climax to a story entitled \"Scaramouches at School\".\n\nIn 1872, The Chinese Recorder and Missionary Journal stated that the practice of washing out the mouth of a child heard to swear was noted by an American colleague, and should be recommended to colleagues in the Orient as well.\n\nIn 1873, a schoolmistress in Mahaska, Iowa was noted to have punished a boy in her class for indulging in chewing tobacco by washing his mouth out with soap. Much later examples tell how Filipino or Lakota aboriginals were punished for speaking their native language with a similar punishment.\n\nAn 1898 \"study in moral education\", published by the Journal of Genetic Psychology, noted that whipping, withdrawal of privileges, lectures, being sent alone to a room and washing out a subject's mouth with either soap, salt or pepper, were the most likely punishments to deter future abuses. Two years later, a New York State Department of Social Welfare officer submitted a complaint against the Rochester Orphan Asylum noting that \"I find, as charged, that children's mouths have been washed with soap-suds, but not, as also charged, with ashes and water; that such punishments were ordered for obscene or profane language\". By the start of the 20th century, the practice was also noted at the Maryland State Reformatory for Women as punishment for any infraction of the rules.\n\nIn the 1940s, washing out mouth with soap was a hazing ritual in the British Royal Navy.\n\nIn the 1950s, several American schoolboards ruled in favour of washing out a pupil's mouth with soap as a legitimate punishment.\n\nIn 1953, Wisconsin judge Harvey L. Neelan fined a Miss Mertz $25 for her drunken obscenities and noted that she should be required to wash her mouth with soap. In 1963, Michigan judge Francis Castellucci ordered Louis Winiarski, who had been found using obscene language around women and children, to wash his mouth with soap before leaving the courtroom. A similar case in October 1979 saw a New York resident choose to wash his mouth out with soap, rather than serve ten days in prison for his disorderly conduct and obscenities.\n\nIn 1977, the National Criminal Justice Reference System published a report defending the use of corporal punishment in schools, in which a school administrator noted that he documented 200 cases, over his 13-year career, of using corporal punishmenting, noting \"That's not just using paddles in every instance, but if you shake a student, if you grab a student, if you wash a student's mouth out with soap, that's corporal punishment under the definition of the law\".\n\nIn 1982, the Journal of Youth and Adolescence listed the practise, alongside paddling and hairpulling as a \"moderate\" punishment for children, beneath the realm of \"severe\" punishment such as whipping. Similarly in 1996, the American Academy of Pediatrics classified it as an alternative to spanking.\n\nIn 2006, students at the Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts carried out a peer-reviewed study on the ability of punishment to curb the use of profanity by interviewing colleagues on their remembered upbringings, and noted that the most commonly reported parental reaction was a verbal reprimand (41%). Soap in the mouth was mentioned in 20% of the episodes, and physical punishments were described in 14%.\n\nThere have been a number of cases of arrests, charges and civil lawsuits arising from the domestic discipline of washing another's mouth out with soap; often arising from the perception of abuse of parental authority by an outside figure.\n\nIn the United States, there is often variance between individual states as well; for example North Carolina specifically instructs its social workers that \"washing a child’s mouth out with soap is not considered an extreme measure\", but the Florida Department of Children and Families took away a mother's two children permanently after she forced her 8-year-old daughter to chew soap after saying \"fuck\", leading to an allergic reaction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22090561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22090561", "title": "William Bradbury (footballer)", "text": "William Bradbury (footballer)\n\nWilliam Henry Bradbury (1884–1966) was an English footballer who played at half-back for Burslem Port Vale, Stoke, Aberdare, Oldham Athletic, Scunthorpe United, Rochdale and Burton Town.\n\nBradbury played for May Bank and Newcastle Swifts, before joining Burslem Port Vale in May 1903. He made his debut on Boxing Day 1903, in a 3–1 defeat by Bristol City at the Athletic Ground. He played three further Second Division games in the rest of the 1903–04 season, and was used as an emergency player in the 1904–05, 1905–06, and 1906–07 campaigns. The club then went into financial meltdown and liquidation, at which point he was released. He joined Fegg Hayes and then moved on to Stoke, playing 28 Birmingham & District League / Southern League games for the \"Potters\" in the 1910–11 season. He later played for Aberdare, Oldham Athletic (in two spells), Scunthorpe United, Rochdale and Burton Town.\n\nSource:\n"}
{"id": "7190749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7190749", "title": "William St Julien Arabin", "text": "William St Julien Arabin\n\nWilliam St Julien Arabin (177315 December 1841) was a British lawyer and judge who served as the Judge-Advocate-General of the Army for a three-and-a-half-month period (6 November 183821 February 1839).\n\nArabin was born either in Norwich or abroad, the only surviving son of General William John Arabin of Ireland, who left him significant estates in Essex and Middlesex. He was descended from one of the oldest families in Provence. His Huguenot ancestor Bartholomew d'Arabin fled to Holland after the revocation of the edict of Nantes in 1685, and came over to England with King William III in 1688. Arabin attended St Paul's School, London and Corpus Christi College, Cambridge. He was admitted to Inner Temple in 1793, and was called to the bar in 1801. He was appointed serjeant-at-law in 1824.\n\nHe was Deputy Recorder of the City of London. He served as Judge-Advocate-General of the Army 183839. He was a judge of the Central Criminal Court and of Sheriffs' Court, London. He was a Verderer of the forests of Epping and Hainault.\n\nAs a judge, Arabin was known as an eccentric figure who was notorious for his confused pronouncements. Some of his most famous quotes include:\n\nArabin married Mary Meux in Camden in 1802. He died at Arabin House in High Beech, Waltham Abbey, Essex, in 1841.\n\n"}
