{"id": "39405037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39405037", "title": "2013 articles about the Department of Justice investigations of reporters", "text": "2013 articles about the Department of Justice investigations of reporters\n\nIn 2013, the United States Department of Justice, under Attorney General Eric Holder, came under scrutiny from the media and some members of Congress for subpoenaing phone records from the Associated Press (AP). Under similar justifications, a 2010 subpoena approved by Eric Holder implicated Fox News reporter, James Rosen, as a possible co-conspirator under the Espionage Act of 1917. Investigators gained access to the times of his phone calls, and two days of Rosen's emails. Stephen Jin-Woo Kim eventually pleaded guilty to violating the Espionage Act for communicating North Korean nuclear test plans to Rosen. These investigations provoked considerable criticism from major news organizations, and precipitated the revision of media guidelines at the Department of Justice.\n\nOn May 13, 2013, the Associated Press announced telephone records for 20 of their reporters during a two-month period in 2012 had been subpoenaed by the Justice Department. AP reported the Justice Department would not say why it sought the records, but news sources noted the US Attorney's office for the District of Columbia was conducting a criminal investigation into a May 7, 2012 Associated Press story about a CIA operation which prevented the Yemeni terrorist Fahd al-Quso's plot to detonate an explosive device on a commercial flight. The DOJ did not direct subpoenas to the Associated Press; instead, the subpoenas were issued to their telephone providers, including Verizon Wireless.\n\nThe AP claimed these acts were a \"massive and unprecedented intrusion\" into news-gathering operations. Gary Pruitt, CEO of the Associated Press stated: \"These records potentially reveal communications with confidential sources across all of the newsgathering activities undertaken by the AP during a two-month period, provide a road map to AP's newsgathering operations and disclose information about AP's activities and operations that the government has no conceivable right to know.\"\n\nThe US Attorney's office in Washington responded that federal investigators seek records from news outlets only after making \"every reasonable effort to obtain information through alternative means.\" Verizon neither challenged the subpoena nor did it try to alert the journalists whose records were being requested. Debra Lewis, Verizon Wireless spokeswoman, said the company \"complies with legal processes for requests for information by law enforcement.\"\n\nOn May 17, 2013, the \"Washington Post\" reported the Justice Department had monitored reporter Rosen's activities by tracking his visits to the State Department, through phone traces, timing of calls and his personal emails in a probe regarding possible news leaks of classified information in 2009 about North Korea. In obtaining the warrants, they labeled Rosen a \"possible co-conspirator\" with Stephen Kim.\n\nIn a written statement, the Justice Department said it had followed “all applicable laws, regulations, and longstanding Department of Justice policies intended to safeguard the First Amendment interests of the press in reporting the news and the public in receiving it.”\n\nSome analysts have described the Justice Department's actions as \"aggressive investigative methods\" that have a chilling effect on news organizations' ability to play a watchdog role. Fox News contributor Judge Andrew Napolitano commented: \"This is the first time that the federal government has moved to this level of taking ordinary, reasonable, traditional, lawful reporter skills and claiming they constitute criminal behavior.\"\n\nAn editorial board of the \"New York Times\" wrote: \"With the decision to label a Fox News television reporter a possible 'co-conspirator' in a criminal investigation of a news leak, the Obama administration has moved beyond protecting government secrets to threatening fundamental freedoms of the press to gather news.\"\n\nDana Milbank of the \"Washington Post\" stated: \"The Rosen affair is as flagrant an assault on civil liberties as anything done by George W. Bush’s administration, and it uses technology to silence critics in a way Richard Nixon could only have dreamed of. To treat a reporter as a criminal for doing his job — seeking out information the government doesn’t want made public — deprives Americans of the First Amendment freedom on which all other constitutional rights are based.\"\n\nDays prior on May 15, 2013, Attorney General Holder had testified under oath in front of the House Judiciary Committee that he had recused himself from the leak investigations to avoid any appearance of a conflict of interest. Holder said his Deputy Attorney General, James M. Cole, was in charge of the AP investigation and would have ordered the subpoenas. When questioning turned to the possibility of journalists being charged under the Espionage Act for reporting classified material, Holder stated: \"With regard to the potential prosecution of the press for the disclosure of material, that is not something that I've ever been involved in, heard of or would think would be a wise policy.\"\n\nOn May 23, 2013, NBC confirmed with the Justice Department that Holder had personally signed off on the Rosen case. The Justice Department defended their decision and spoke about a balance between protecting national secrets and the 1st Amendment, stating: \"After extensive deliberations, and after following all applicable laws, regulations and policies, the Department sought an appropriately tailored search warrant under the Privacy Protection Act.\" The revelation brought into question whether Holder was being intentionally misleading during his previous testimony when he denied knowing of, or being part of possible prosecutions of journalists. House Committee members sent an open letter to Holder, saying: \"It is imperative that the committee, the Congress, and the American people be provided a full and accurate account of your involvement.\"\n\nMembers of Congress and media figures have questioned the motivations behind the Justice Department's actions, and if they were even warranted: \"For five days, reporters at the Associated Press had been sitting on a big scoop about a foiled\nAl-Qaeda plot at the request of CIA officials. Then, in a hastily scheduled Monday morning meeting, the journalists were asked by agency officials to hold off on publishing the story for just one more day. The CIA officials, who had initially cited national security concerns in an attempt to delay publication, no longer had those worries, according to individuals familiar with the exchange. Instead, the Obama administration was planning to announce the successful counterterrorism operation that Tuesday. AP balked and proceeded to publish that Monday afternoon.\"\n\nOn June 19, 2013, while giving a speech at the National Press Club, President and CEO of the Associated Press Gary Pruitt said: “Some longtime trusted sources have become nervous and anxious about talking with us — even on stories unrelated to national security. In some cases, government employees we once checked in with regularly will no longer speak to us by phone. Others are reluctant to meet in person... And I can tell you, that this chilling effect on newsgathering is not just limited to AP. Journalists from other news organizations have personally told me, that it has intimidated both official and nonofficial sources from speaking to them as well.”\n\nThe U.S. Department of Justice undertook a comprehensive evaluation of their practices and policies regarding issuing subpoenas, search warrants and court orders to obtain records or information from journalists, meeting with stakeholders in the news media, First Amendment advocates, and members of the Congress. The DOJ published a six-page report of the review entitled \"Report on Revised Media Guidelines\" on July 12, 2013. Holder said the \"revised guidelines help ensure the proper balance is struck when pursuing investigations into unauthorized disclosures\" and that these \"reforms will make a meaningful difference\". He claimed that \"there are additional protections that only Congress can provide\" alluding to media shield legislation. Media lawyers involved in the negotiations of the revised guidelines called them a significant progress, but the reactions of journalists were mixed. David E. Sanger, veteran chief Washington correspondent of \"The New York Times\", for example stated that the revised guidelines were “just formalizing what was observed in past administrations. The guidelines worked pretty well until the Obama administration came in.” On February 24, 2014 the Attorney General Eric Holder signed the final new rules that lay down the guidelines for the U.S. Department of Justice on seeking information from journalists. The Attorney General’s Order No. 3420-2014 mentions it lays down the “Policy regarding obtaining information from, or records of, members of the news media; and regarding questioning, arresting, or charging members of the news media.”\n\n"}
{"id": "34744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34744", "title": "2nd century", "text": "2nd century\n\nThe 2nd century is the period from 101 to 200 in accordance with the Julian calendar in the Common Era. It is considered part of the Classical era, epoch, or historical period.\n\nEarly in the century, the Roman Empire attained its greatest expansion under the emperor Trajan, but after his death became primarily defensive for the rest of its history. Much prosperity took place throughout the empire at this time, ruled as it were by the Five Good Emperors, a succession of well-received and able rulers.\nThis period also saw the removal of the Jews from Jerusalem during the reign of Hadrian after Bar Kokhba's revolt.\nThe last quarter of the century saw the end of the period of peace and prosperity known as the Pax Romana at the death of the emperor Marcus Aurelius, last of the \"Five Good Emperors\", and the ascension of Commodus.\n\nAlthough the Han Dynasty of China was firmly cemented into power and extended its imperial influence into Central Asia during the first half of the century, by the second half there was widespread corruption and open rebellion. This set in motion its ultimate decline, until it was overthrown in 220.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1235872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1235872", "title": "A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies", "text": "A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\n\nA Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies () is an account written by the Spanish Dominican friar Bartolomé de las Casas in 1542 (published in 1552) about the mistreatment of and atrocities committed against the indigenous peoples of the Americas in colonial times and sent to then Prince Philip II of Spain.\n\nBartolomé de las Casas explains in the prologue that his fifty years of experience in Spanish colonies in the Indies granted him both moral legitimacy and accountability for writing this account. In 1516, Las Casas was granted the title of Protector of the Indians by Cardinal Cisneros after he submitted a report on their severe demographic decline due to harsh labor and mistreatment by colonial officials. During the time when Las Casas served as the Protector of the Indians, several clerics from the Order of Saint Jerome attempted to reform certain systems which used the native populace as laborers. However, Las Casas found their attempts insufficient to protect the welfare of the Indians, and returned to Spain to appeal to the Spanish monarch in 1517.\n\nFrom 1517 to 1540, Las Casas traveled back and forth between Spain and Spanish colonies in Latin America numerous times, struggling to find a common ground between Spanish authorities and his own humanitarian aims to improve the conditions of Indian subjects in Spanish dominions. One of many purposes of his travels was to continue to protest Spanish colonial mistreatment of Indians.\n\nIn 1542, after Las Casas first wrote the chronicle later known as \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\", during the hearings ordered by Charles I of Spain to resolve issues of forceful conversion and colonial exploitation of Indians, Las Casas presented the account before the members of the Council of the Indies as proof of atrocities committed upon Indians by colonial authorities.\n\nLas Casas was one of the first advocates for the indigenous people. The book was published when De Las Casas was sixty-seven years old. \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\" is one of many books by De Las Casas that shows that he was highly persuasive and respected by the Spanish court. \"A Short Account\" was one of the most influential sources used to attempt to improve colonial conditions for the indigenous people. The book was also one of the first texts that revealed the devastation of Old World diseases in the New World.\n\nThe book has been critiqued for centuries for its reliability about the treatment of the indigenous people and the number of indigenous people who died as a result of the mistreatment by the Spanish conquistadors. It was written to persuade the Spanish king to act in response to the Spanish conquistadors' abuse of the indigenous population. As a primarily persuasive text, many critics argue that facts and figures about the mistreatment and death toll were exaggerated, making the text largely unreliable.\n\nIt was written for Charles I of Spain. Las Casas appeals to the King's pathos throughout his account by describing Charles I as a lover, cultivator and as a man of justice. One of the stated purposes for writing the account is his fear of Spain coming under divine punishment and his concern for the souls of the Native peoples. The account is one of the first attempts by a Spanish writer of the colonial era to depict examples of unfair treatment that indigenous people endured in the early stages of the Spanish conquest of the Greater Antilles, particularly the island of Hispaniola. Las Casas takes a strong anti-colonial stance, on account of the extreme violence inflicted on the indigenous occupants of the islands by the Spaniards. He describes the extensive torture, murder, and mutilation of the Natives, referring to them as \"innocent Sheep\" who were \"assaulted\" by the Spanish colonizers. De las Casas noticed that no matter where he visited, the Spanish were committing the same crimes. On the island of Hispaniola, the Spanish were herding people into a straw building and setting fire to it, burning the occupants alive. In addition, “they sent the Males to the Mines to dig and bring away the Gold, which is an intollerable labor; but the Women they made use of to Manure and Till the ground, which is a toil most irksome even to Men of the strongest and most robust constitutions, allowing them no other food but Herbage, and such kind of unsubstantial nutriment, so that the Nursing Womens Milk was exsiccated and so dryed up, that the young Infants lately brought forth, all perished.” On Puerto Rico and Jamaica, he saw the Spanish, “with the same purpose and design they proposed to themselves in the Isle of Hispaniola, perpetrating innumerable Robberies and Villanies as before.” and that “These two Isles containing six hundred thousand at least, though at this day there are scarce two hundred men to be found in either of them.” De las Casas also notes that what the Spanish were doing drove many natives to commit suicide. On Cuba, “By the ferocity of one Spanish Tyrant (whom I knew) above Two Hundred Indians hang'd themselves of their own accord; and a multitude of People perished by this kind of Death” and “Six Thousand Children and upward were murder'd, because they had lost their Parents who labour'd in the Mines.”\n\n\"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\" is a book that marks a significant moment in the way 21st century colonial Latin American historians would address world history. By comparing what historians know today about colonial Latin America, with the descriptions and recommendations given by De Las Casas in \"A Short Account\", they are able to understand more about De Las Casas' own biases, prejudices, and outlook on the colonization of the Americas. De Las Casas' \"A Short Account\", was a revised history of the conquest, in the way that he includes facts that would aid him in his argument. De Las Casas' \"A Short Account\", revealed the ways 16th century scholars used rhetoric to lobby for changes during the Spanish colonization of the Americas. His book, \"A Short Account\", complicated the humanitarian and ethical arguments made in the 16th century by empathizing with indigenous people while recommending the use of enslaved African people in the Americas. De Las Casas supported the overall Spanish colonial experiment in the Americas, while condemning the abuse of the indigenous people.\n\nDe Las Casas used the term “New World” to look at the Americas and Western hemisphere and did not use the term or idea of the “ancient world” as a way to describe the Spain, Europe and the Eastern hemisphere. This linguistic shift marked a transition in historical text and thought by moving away from the medieval view of geography and world history to a more modern view. De Las Casas addressed the new population in the Americas and introduced it in a political way in addressing the Spanish King. De Las Casas introduced and presented the people of the Americas in the context of the Spanish empire.\n\nDe Las Casas is also noted as one of the first writers and thinkers to racialize the indigenous people of the Americas. In his attempt to defend the indigenous people, he argues that they are part of the human race by describing their bodies, skin color, language and culture. In \"A Short Account\", De Las Casas racialized the indigenous people and created a new understanding for them in the context and hierarchy of European ideas of race.\n\nHis account was largely responsible for the passage of the new Spanish colonial laws known as the New Laws of 1542, which abolished native slavery for the first time in European colonial history and led to the Valladolid debate. This text was used as a way to convince the King of Spain of the cruelties caused by the Spanish Conquistadors. Thus, he did not focus or mention the effects of disease as a cause of suffering for the native people. Instead, De Las Casas focused on the suffering caused by the Spanish conquistadors so that the King would address the conquistador’s behavior.\n\nIt was republished in 1620, by Jan Evertszoon Cloppenburch, alongside the book \"Origin and progress of the disturbances in the Netherlands\" by Dutch historian Johannes Gysius. The book was frequently reprinted, alone or in combination with other works, in the Netherlands and in other countries struggling against the power of Spain in Europe and the Americas. The images described by Las Casas were later depicted by Theodor de Bry in copper plate engravings that helped expand the Black Legend against Spain.\n\nThe purpose of \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\" was to convince the King of Spain to take action on the mistreatment of the indigenous people of the Americas. De Las Casas has been accused by many scholars about making exaggerated claims in terms of the death toll and mistreatment of the indigenous people. \n\nToday, it is known that Old World diseases and the lack of immunity caused a large number of indigenous deaths.\n\nThe reason why De Las Casas did not mention the number of indigenous deaths caused by old world diseases is not a political one. During the 1400s, people did not know what caused disease or how it spread. The discovery of germs wasn't until the 1500s, and their association with diseases was not even accepted by the medical profession until the 1900s. \n\nIt is important to look at \"A Short Account\" as an important observation of what was happening to the indigenous people at the hands of the Spanish conquistadors, instead of only looking at it as an example of rhetoric or propaganda.\n\n\"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\" is a book that is acclaimed by scholars for its rhetorical effect. De Las Casas juxtaposes the inhumane mistreatment of the Spanish conquistadors with the inherent goodness of the indigenous people in an exaggerated manner in his strategy of persuasion. His text largely uses an emotionally persuasive argument instead of a logical argument in \"A Short Account\" in his effort to convince the King of Spain. De Las Casas revised and re-edited this book in order to make his best argument in favor of the indigenous people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9519293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9519293", "title": "Aboriginal stone arrangement", "text": "Aboriginal stone arrangement\n\nAboriginal stone arrangements are a form of rock art constructed by Indigenous Australians. Typically, they consist of stones, each of which may be about 30 cm in size, laid out in a pattern extending over several metres or tens of metres. Notable examples have been made by many different Australian Aboriginal cultures, and in many case are thought to be associated with spiritual ceremonies.\n\nParticularly fine examples are in Victoria, where the stones can be very large (up to 1 metre high). For example, the stone arrangement at Wurdi Youang consists of about 100 stones arranged in an egg-shaped oval about 50m across. Each stone is well-embedded into the soil, and many have \"trigger-stones\" to support them. The appearance of the site is very similar to that of the megalithic stone circles found throughout Britain (although the function and culture are presumably completely different). Although its association with Indigenous Australians is well-authenticated and beyond doubt, the purpose is unclear, although it may have a connection with initiation rites. It has also been suggested that the site may have been used for astronomical purposes (Morieson 2003). Other well-known examples in Victoria include the stone arrangements at Carisbrook and Lake Bolac.\n\nAustralia's largest collection of standing stones is said to be at Murujuga, also known as the Burrup peninsula or the Dampier archipelago, in Western Australia, which includes tall standing stones similar to the European menhirs, as well as circular stone arrangements.\nA very different example is found near Yirrkala in Arnhem Land, where there are detailed images of the praus used by Macassan fisherman fishing for Trepang, several hundred years before European contact. Here the stones are small (typically 10–20 cm), sit on the surface of the ground, and can easily be moved by hand, which also implies that they can be easily damaged or altered by modern hands, so that caution is needed when interpreting such sites. Similar examples are found scattered throughout Australia, mainly in remote or inaccessible places, and it is likely that there were many more prior to European settlement of Australia.\n\nIn South East Australia are found Bora rings which consist of two circles of stones, one larger than the other, which were used in an initiation ceremony and rite of passage in which boys were transformed into men.\n\nSome Aboriginal stone arrangements in south-east Australia are aligned to cardinal directions with an accuracy of a few degrees,\nwhile the Wurdi Youang stone arrangement, which indicates the direction of solstitial sunsets, appears to have been built around the east-west direction, again with an accuracy of a few degrees. This requirement for highly accurate direction is also indicated by the practice of orienting the graves of deceased Kamilaroi men to an accuracy of a few degrees.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1934570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1934570", "title": "Angry white male", "text": "Angry white male\n\n\"Angry white male\" is a pejorative expression for white males holding conservative to reactionary views in the context of U.S. politics, typically characterized by \"opposition to liberal anti-discriminatory policies\" and beliefs. In particular, angry white males stereotypically oppose affirmative action policies and feminism.\n\nThe term was popularized in reference to a political voting bloc which emerged in the early 1990s as a reaction to perceived injustices faced by white men in the face of affirmative action quotas in the workplace. Angry white men are characterised as having animosity toward young people, women or minorities. Supporters of Donald Trump have been described by some political commentators as angry white men.\n\nThe rhetoric of the angry white man is not limited to the United States. It appeared during Australia's 1998 federal elections. New political parties appeared in that election due to the preexisting fathers' rights movement in Australia. These included the Abolish Family Support/Family Court Party and the Family Law Reform Party. Similar to the usage of the term in the United States, the Australian men categorized as angry white men opposed what they perceived as the feminist agenda. These political parties were created as a reaction to the historic number of women elected to the House of Representatives. Members of these groups claimed that \"feminists have entrenched themselves in positions of power and influence in government and are using their power to victimise men\".\n\nThe Liberal Party (major centre-right) senator Eric Abetz, arguing against Section 18C of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975, says it's \"passing strange\" that the Australian Human Rights Commission does not seem to care about what he perceives as \"racist terminology\" such as angry white man but it does care if another color is used to describe someone: \"One cannot help but think that the term 'white' can only refer to skin colour and therefore [you] are making reference to a skin colour [and] one assumes it must have been on the basis of race that the comment was made\".\n\nThe term is applied to those believed to be opposed to the Civil Rights Movement and second-wave feminism.\n\nThe movies \"Joe\", \"Falling Down\", \"God Bless America\", and Clint Eastwood's performances in both the \"Dirty Harry\" series and \"Gran Torino\" have been described as definitive explorations of the angry white man. In particular, the protagonist of \"Falling Down\" (a divorced, laid-off defense worker who descends via chance and choice into a spiral of increasing rage and violence) was widely reported upon as a representative of the stereotype. He is puzzled by where he ended up and asks, \"I'm the Bad Guy? (Police Sergeant 'Yeah') How'd that happen? I did everything they told me to. Did you know I build missiles? I helped to protect America. You should be rewarded for that.\"\n\nThe character Archie Bunker from the TV sitcoms \"All in the Family\" and \"Archie Bunker's Place\" \"turned the angry white male into a cultural icon\", according to CBS News. The actor Carroll O'Connor who played Archie Bunker said paraphrasing James Baldwin, \"The American white man is trapped by his own cultural history. He doesn't know what to do about it.\" O'Connor goes on to say:\n\nArchie's dilemma is coping with a world that is changing in front of him. He doesn't know what to do, except to lose his temper, mouth his poisons, look elsewhere to fix the blame for his own discomfort. He isn't a totally evil man. He's shrewd. But he won't get to the root of his problem, because the root of his problem is himself, and he doesn't know it. That is the dilemma of Archie Bunker.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "48872703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48872703", "title": "Anianus (writer)", "text": "Anianus (writer)\n\nAnianus was an Egyptian monk who lived at the beginning of the 5th century AD and wrote a chronography in which, according to the later chronicler George Syncellus, he generally followed Eusebius, but sometimes corrected errors made by that writer. It is, however, very doubtful whether Anianus, on the whole, surpassed Eusebius in accuracy. Syncellus frequently finds fault with him.\n"}
{"id": "5813693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5813693", "title": "Arethusa (journal)", "text": "Arethusa (journal)\n\nArethusa is an academic journal established in 1967. It covers the field of Classics using an interdisciplinary approach incorporating contemporary theoretical perspectives and more traditional approaches to literary and material evidence. It frequently features issues focused on a theme related the classical world. The current Editor in chief of the journal is Martha Malamud (SUNY Buffalo). The journal is named for the mythical nymph Arethusa and published three times each year in January, May, and September by the Johns Hopkins University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "8907986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8907986", "title": "Autobiography: Some Notes on a Nonentity", "text": "Autobiography: Some Notes on a Nonentity\n\nAutobiography: Some Notes on a Nonentity is an autobiographical essay by American author H. P. Lovecraft. It was released in 1963 by Arkham House in an edition of 500 copies. The essay was originally included in \"Beyond the Wall of Sleep\". This reprinting includes annotations by August Derleth. More recently it has been reprinted in the books \"Lord of a Visible World: An Autobiography in Letters\" edited by S. T. Joshi and David E. Schultz (2000), and \"Collected Essays, Volume 5: Philosophy; Autobiography & Miscellany\" edited by S. T. Joshi (2006).\n\n"}
{"id": "2415368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2415368", "title": "Bookstore tourism", "text": "Bookstore tourism\n\nBookstore tourism is a type of cultural tourism that promotes independent bookstores as a group travel destination. It started as a grassroots effort to support locally owned and operated bookshops, many of which have struggled to compete with large bookstore chains and online retailers.\n\nThose who promote bookstore tourism encourage schools, libraries, reading groups and other miscellaneous organizations to create day-trips and literary outings to cities and towns with a concentration of independent bookstores. Groups of various sizes around the U.S. have offered such excursions, usually via a chartered bus, and often incorporating book signings, author home tours and historical sites. They also encourage local booksellers to attract bibliophiles to their communities by employing bookstore tourism as an economic development tool. Others benefiting include local retailers, restaurants, bus companies and travel professionals. The effort also provides organizations with an outreach opportunity to support reading and literacy. \n\nThe bookselling, publishing, and motorcoach industries have recognized the concept's potential as a group travel niche and marketing tool. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "588215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588215", "title": "Buddhas of Bamiyan", "text": "Buddhas of Bamiyan\n\nThe Buddhas of Bamiyan (Persian: – \"bott-hâye Bāmiyān\") were 6th-century monumental statues of Gautam Buddha carved into the side of a cliff in the Bamyan valley in the Hazarajat region of central Afghanistan, northwest of Kabul at an elevation of . Built in 507 CE (smaller) and 554 CE (larger), the statues represented the classic blended style of Gandhara art. They were respectively tall.\n\nThe main bodies were hewn directly from the sandstone cliffs, but details were modeled in mud mixed with straw, coated with stucco. This coating, practically all of which wore away long ago, was painted to enhance the expressions of the faces, hands, and folds of the robes; the larger one was painted carmine red and the smaller one was painted multiple colors.\n\nThe lower parts of the statues' arms were constructed from the same mud-straw mix supported on wooden armatures. It is believed that the upper parts of their faces were made from great wooden masks or casts. The rows of holes that can be seen in photographs held wooden pegs that stabilized the outer stucco.\n\nThey were dynamited and destroyed in March 2001 by the Taliban, on orders from leader Mullah Mohammed Omar, after the Taliban government declared that they were idols. An envoy visiting the United States in the following weeks said that they were destroyed to protest international aid exclusively reserved for statue maintenance while Afghanistan was experiencing famine, while the Afghan Foreign Minister claimed that the destruction was merely about carrying out Islamic religious iconoclasm. International opinion strongly condemned the destruction of the Buddhas, which in the following years was primarily viewed as an example of the extreme religious intolerance of the Taliban. Japan and Switzerland, among others, have pledged support for the rebuilding of the statues.\n\nBamiyan lies on the Silk Road, which runs through the Hindu Kush mountain region, in the Bamiyan Valley. The Silk Road has been historically a caravan route linking the markets of China with those of the Western world. It was the site of several Buddhist monasteries, and a thriving center for religion, philosophy, and art. Monks at the monasteries lived as hermits in small caves carved into the side of the Bamiyan cliffs. Most of these monks embellished their caves with religious statuary and elaborate, brightly colored frescoes. It was a Buddhist religious site from the 2nd century up to the time of the Islamic invasion in the later half of the 7th century. Until it was completely conquered by the Muslim Saffarids in the 9th century, Bamiyan shared the culture of Gandhara.\n\nThe two most prominent statues were the giant standing sculptures of Buddhas Vairocana and Sakyamuni, identified by the different mudras performed. The Buddha popularly called \"Solsol\" measured 53 meters tall, and \"Shahmama\" 35 meters—the niches in which the figures stood are 58 and 38 meters respectively from bottom to top. Before being blown up in 2001 they were the largest examples of standing Buddha carvings in the world (the 8th century Leshan Giant Buddha is taller, but that statue is sitting). Since then the Statue of unity has been built in India, and at it is the tallest statue in the world, breaking the record earlier held by The Spring Temple Buddha in Fodushan Scenic Area, Lushan County, Henan, China. Plans for the construction of the Spring Temple Buddha were announced soon after the blowing up of the Bamiyan Buddhas and China condemned the systematic destruction of the Buddhist heritage of Afghanistan.\n\nIt is believed that the monumental Buddha sculptures were carved into the cliffs of Bamiyan between the 3rd to 6th centuries AD, while the cave complex in the east, including the 38 meter Buddha, a stupa was built in the 3rd or 4th centuries AD. The 55 meter Buddha is believed to date from the 5th and 6th centuries AD. Historic documentation refers to celebrations held every year attracting numerous pilgrims and that offers were made to the monumental statues (http://whc.unesco.org/uploads/nominations/208rev.pdf). They were perhaps the most famous cultural landmarks of the region, and the site was listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site along with the surrounding cultural landscape and archaeological remains of the Bamiyan Valley. Their color faded through time.\n\nChinese Buddhist pilgrim Xuanzang visited the site on 30 April 630 AD, and described Bamiyan in the \"Da Tang Xiyu Ji\" as a flourishing Buddhist center \"with more than ten monasteries and more than a thousand monks\". He also noted that both Buddha figures were \"decorated with gold and fine jewels\" (Wriggins, 1995). Intriguingly, Xuanzang mentions a third, even larger, reclining statue of the Buddha. A monumental seated Buddha, similar in style to those at Bamiyan, still exists in the Bingling Temple caves in China's Gansu province.\n\nThe destruction of the Bamyan Buddhas became a symbol of oppression and a rallying point for the freedom of religious expression. Despite the fact that most Afghans are now Muslim, they too had embraced their past and many were appalled by the destruction.\n\nIn 1221, with the advent of Genghis Khan, \"a terrible disaster befell Bamiyan.\" Nevertheless, the statues were spared. Later, the Mughal emperor, Aurangzeb, tried to use heavy artillery to destroy the statues. Another attempt to destroy the Bamiyan statues was made by the 18th century Persian king Nader Afshar, directing cannon fire at them.\n\nThe enormous statues, the male Salsal (\"light shines through the universe\") and the (smaller) female Shamama (\"Queen Mother\"), as they were called by the locals, did not fail to fire the imagination of Islamic writers in centuries past. The larger statue reappears as the malevolent giant Salsal in medieval Turkish tales.\n\nAfghan king Abdur Rahman Khan destroyed its face during a military campaign against the Shia Hazara rebellion. A Frenchman named Dureau had photographed it in 1847.\n\nAbdul Wahed, a Taliban commander operating around the area, announced his intention to blow up the Buddhas in 1997, even before he had taken control of the valley. In 1998 when he battled off the Hizb-i-Wahdat militia from the area and took control of Bamiyan, Wahed drilled holes in the Buddhas' heads for explosives. He was prevented from taking further action by the local governor and a direct order of Mohammed Omar, although tires were later burned on the head of the great Buddha. In July 1999, Mullah Mohammed Omar issued a decree in favor of the preservation of the Bamiyan Buddha statues. Because Afghanistan's Buddhist population no longer exists, and the statues were no longer worshipped, he added: \"The government considers the Bamiyan statues as an example of a potential major source of income for Afghanistan from international visitors. The Taliban states that Bamiyan shall not be destroyed but protected.\" In early 2000, local Taliban authorities asked for UN assistance to rebuild drainage ditches around tops of the alcoves where the Buddhas were set.\n\nHowever, Afghanistan's radical clerics began a campaign to crack down on \"un-Islamic\" segments of Afghan society. The Taliban soon banned all forms of imagery, music, and sports, including television, in accordance with what they considered a strict interpretation of Sharia.\n\nIn March 2001, the statues were destroyed by the Taliban of Mullah Omar following a decree issued by him. The Taliban supreme leader Mullah Omar explained why he ordered the statues to be destroyed in an interview:\nInformation and Culture Minister Qadratullah Jamal told Associated Press of a decision by 400 religious clerics from across Afghanistan declaring the Buddhist statues against the tenets of Islam. \"They came out with a consensus that the statues were against Islam,\" said Jamal.\n\nAccording to UNESCO Director-General Koïchiro Matsuura, a meeting of ambassadors from the 54 member states of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) was conducted. All OIC states—including Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, three countries that officially recognised the Taliban government—joined the protest to spare the monuments. Saudi Arabia and the UAE later condemned the destruction as \"savage\". Although India never recognised the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, New Delhi offered to arrange for the transfer of all the artifacts in question to India, \"where they would be kept safely and preserved for all mankind\". These overtures were rejected by the Taliban. Pakistani president Pervez Musharraf sent Moinuddin Haider to Kabul to try to prevent the destruction, by arguing that it was un-Islamic and unprecedented. According to Taliban minister, Abdul Salam Zaeef, UNESCO sent the Taliban government 36 letters objecting to the proposed destruction. He asserted that the Chinese, Japanese, and Sri Lankan delegates were the most strident advocates for preserving the Buddhas. The Japanese in particular proposed a variety of different solutions to the issue, these included moving the statues to Japan, covering the statues from view, and the payment of money. The second edition of the Turkistan Islamic Party's magazine \"Islamic Turkistan\" contained an article on Buddhism, and described the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan despite attempts by the Japanese government of \"infidels\" to preserve the remains of the statues.\n\nA statement issued by the ministry of religious affairs of the Taliban regime justified the destruction as being in accordance with Islamic law. Abdul Salam Zaeef held that the destruction of the Buddhas was finally ordered by Abdul Wali, the Minister for the Propagation of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice.\n\nThe statues were destroyed by dynamite over several weeks, starting on 2 March 2001. The destruction was carried out in stages. Initially, the statues were fired at for several days using anti-aircraft guns and artillery. This caused severe damage, but did not obliterate them. During the destruction, Taliban Information Minister Qudratullah Jamal lamented that, \"This work of destruction is not as simple as people might think. You can't knock down the statues by shelling as both are carved into a cliff; they are firmly attached to the mountain\". Later, the Taliban placed anti-tank mines at the bottom of the niches, so that when fragments of rock broke off from artillery fire, the statues would receive additional destruction from particles that set off the mines. In the end, the Taliban lowered men down the cliff face and placed explosives into holes in the Buddhas. After one of the explosions failed to obliterate the face of one of the Buddhas, a rocket was launched that left a hole in the remains of the stone head.\n\nOn 6 March 2001, \"The Times\" quoted Mullah Mohammed Omar as stating, \"Muslims should be proud of smashing idols. It has given praise to Allah that we have destroyed them.\" During a 13 March interview for Japan's Mainichi Shimbun, Afghan Foreign Minister Wakil Ahmad Mutawakel stated that the destruction was anything but a retaliation against the international community for economic sanctions: \"We are destroying the statues in accordance with Islamic law and it is purely a religious issue.\"\n\nOn 18 March 2001, \"The New York Times\" reported that a Taliban envoy said the Islamic government made its decision in a rage after a foreign delegation offered money to preserve the ancient works. The report also added, however, that other reports \"have said the religious leaders were debating the move for months, and ultimately decided that the statues were idolatrous and should be obliterated\".\n\nThen Taliban ambassador-at-large Sayed Rahmatullah Hashemi said that the destruction of the statues was carried out by the Head Council of Scholars after a Swedish monuments expert proposed to restore the statues' heads. Hashimi is reported as saying: \"When the Afghan head council asked them to provide the money to feed the children instead of fixing the statues, they refused and said, 'No, the money is just for the statues, not for the children'. Herein, they made the decision to destroy the statues\"; however, he did not comment on the claim that a foreign museum offered to \"buy the Buddhist statues, the money from which could have been used to feed children\".\n\nThe destruction of the Bamiyan Buddhas despite protests from the international community has been described by Michael Falser, a heritage expert at the Center for Transcultural Studies in Germany, as an attack by the Taliban against the globalising concept of \"cultural heritage\". The director general of the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Koichiro Matsuura called the destruction a \"...crime against culture. It is abominable to witness the cold and calculated destruction of cultural properties which were the heritage of the Afghan people, and, indeed, of the whole of humanity.\"\n\nThough the figures of the two large Buddhas have been destroyed, their outlines and some features are still recognizable within the recesses. It is also still possible for visitors to explore the monks' caves and passages that connect them. As part of the international effort to rebuild Afghanistan after the Taliban war, the Japanese government and several other organizations—among them the Afghanistan Institute in Bubendorf, Switzerland, along with the ETH in Zurich—have committed to rebuilding, perhaps by anastylosis, the two larger Buddhas.\n\nIn April 2002, Afghanistan's post-Taliban leader Hamid Karzai called the destruction a \"national tragedy\" and pledged the Buddhas to be rebuilt.\n\nIn September 2005, Mawlawi Mohammed Islam Mohammadi, Taliban governor of Bamiyan province at the time of the destruction and widely seen as responsible for its occurrence, was elected to the Afghan Parliament. He blamed the decision to destroy the Buddhas on Al-Qaeda's influence on the Taliban. In January 2007, he was assassinated in Kabul.\n\nSwiss filmmaker Christian Frei made a 95-minute documentary titled \"The Giant Buddhas\" (released in March 2006) on the statues, the international reactions to their destruction, and an overview of the controversy. Testimony by local Afghans validates that Osama bin Laden ordered the destruction and that, initially, Mullah Omar and the Afghans in Bamiyan opposed it. A novel titled 'An Afghan Winter' provides a fictional backdrop to the destruction of the Buddhas and its impact on the global Buddhist community.\n\nSince 2002, international funding has supported recovery and stabilization efforts at the site. Fragments of the statues are documented and stored with special attention given to securing the structure of the statue still in place. It is hoped that, in the future, partial anastylosis can be conducted with the remaining fragments. In 2009, ICOMOS constructed scaffolding within the niche to further conservation and stabilization. Nonetheless, several serious conservation and safety issues exist and the Buddhas are still listed as World Heritage in Danger.\n\nIn the summer of 2006, Afghan officials were deciding on the timetable for the re-construction of the statues. As they wait for the Afghan government and international community to decide when to rebuild them, a $1.3 million UNESCO-funded project is sorting out the chunks of clay and plaster—ranging from boulders weighing several tons to fragments the size of tennis balls—and sheltering them from the elements.\n\nThe Buddhist remnants at Bamiyan were included on the 2008 World Monuments Watch List of the 100 Most Endangered Sites by the World Monuments Fund.\n\nIn 2013, the foot section of the smaller Buddha was rebuilt with iron rods, bricks and concrete by the German branch of ICOMOS. Further constructions were halted by order of UNESCO, on the grounds that the work was conducted without the organization's knowledge or approval. The effort was contrary to UNESCO's policy of using original material for reconstructions, and it has been pointed out that it was done based on assumptions.\n\nAfter the destruction of the Buddhas, 50 caves were revealed. In 12 of the caves, wall paintings were discovered. In December 2004, an international team of researchers stated the wall paintings at Bamiyan were painted between the 5th and the 9th centuries, rather than the 6th to 8th centuries, citing their analysis of radioactive isotopes contained in straw fibers found beneath the paintings. It is believed that the paintings were done by artists travelling on the Silk Road, the trade route between China and the West.\n\nScientists from the Tokyo Research Institute for Cultural Properties in Japan, the Centre of Research and Restoration of the French Museums in France, the Getty Conservation Institute in the United States, and the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble, France, analysed samples from the paintings, typically less than 1 mm across. They discovered that the paint contained pigments such as vermilion (red mercury sulfide) and lead white (lead carbonate). These were mixed with a range of binders, including natural resins, gums (possibly animal skin glue or egg), and oils, probably derived from walnuts or poppies. Specifically, researchers identified drying oils from murals showing Buddhas in vermilion robes sitting cross-legged amid palm leaves and mythical creatures as being painted in the middle of the 7th century. It is believed that they are the oldest known surviving examples of oil painting, possibly predating oil painting in Europe by as much as six centuries. The discovery may lead to a reassessment of works in ancient ruins in Iran, China, Pakistan, Turkey, and India.\n\nInitial suspicion that the oils might be attributable to contamination from fingers, as the touching of the painting is encouraged in Buddhist tradition, was dispelled by spectroscopy and chromatography giving an unambiguous signal for the intentional use of drying oils rather than contaminants. Oils were discovered underneath layers of paint, unlike surface contaminants.\n\nScientists also found the translation of the beginning section of the original Sanskrit Pratītyasamutpāda Sutra translated by Xuanzang that spelled out the basic belief of Buddhism and said all things are transient.\n\nOn 8 September 2008, archaeologists searching for a legendary 300-metre statue at the site announced the discovery of parts of an unknown reclining Buddha, a pose representing Buddha's Parinirvana.\n\nThe UNESCO Expert Working Group on Afghan cultural projects convened to discuss what to do about the two statues between 3–4 March 2011 in Paris. Researcher Erwin Emmerling of Technical University Munich announced he believed it would be possible to restore the smaller statue using an organic silicon compound. The Paris conference issued a list of 39 recommendations for the safeguarding of the Bamiyan site. These included leaving the larger Western niche empty as a monument to the destruction of the Buddhas, a feasibility study into the rebuilding of the Eastern Buddha, and the construction of a central museum and several smaller site museums. Work has since begun on restoring the Buddhas using the process of anastylosis, where original elements are combined with modern material. It is estimated that roughly half the pieces of the Buddhas can be put back together according to Bert Praxenthaler, a German art historian and sculptor involved in the restoration. The restoration of the caves and Buddhas has also involved training and employing local people as stone carvers. The project, which also aims to encourage tourism to the area, is being organised by UNESCO and the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS).\n\nThe work has come under some criticism. It is felt by some, such as human rights activist Abdullah Hamadi, that the empty niches should be left as monuments to the fanaticism of the Taliban, while NPR reported that others believe the money could be better spent on housing and electricity for the region. Some people, including Habiba Sarabi, the provincial governor, believe that rebuilding the Buddhas would increase tourism which would aid the surrounding communities.\n\nAfter fourteen years, on 7 June 2015, a Chinese adventurist couple Xinyu Zhang and Hong Liang filled the empty cavities where the Buddhas once stood with 3D laser light projection technology. The projector used for the installation, worth approximately $120,000, was donated by Xinyu and Hong, who were saddened by the destruction of the statues. With the desire of paying tribute, they requested permission from UNESCO and the Afghan government to do the project. About 150 local people came out to see the unveiling of the holographic statues on Sunday, 7 June 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13000675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13000675", "title": "Certosina", "text": "Certosina\n\nCertosina is a decorative art technique used widely in the Italian Renaissance period. Similar to marquetry, it uses small pieces of wood, bone, metal, or mother-of-pearl to create inlaid geometric patterns on wood. The term comes from Certosa Church in Pavia, where the technique was used in ornamenting an altarpiece.\n\n"}
{"id": "1096446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096446", "title": "Consent of the governed", "text": "Consent of the governed\n\nIn political philosophy, the phrase consent of the governed refers to the idea that a government's legitimacy and moral right to use state power is only justified and lawful when consented to by the people or society over which that political power is exercised. This theory of consent is historically contrasted to the divine right of kings and had often been invoked against the legitimacy of colonialism. Article 21 of the United Nation's 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that \"The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government\".\n\nIn his 1937 book \"A History of Political Theory\", George Sabine collected the views of many political theorists on consent of the governed. He notes the idea mentioned in 1433 by Nicholas of Cusa in \"De Concordantia Catholica\". In 1579 Theodore Beza wrote \"Vindiciae contra Tyrannos\" which Sabine paraphrases: \"The people lay down the conditions which the king is bound to fulfill. Hence they are bound to obedience only conditionally, namely, upon receiving the protection of just and lawful government…the power of the ruler is delegated by the people and continues only with their consent.\" In England, the Levellers also held to this principle of government.\n\nJohn Milton wrote\nSimilarly, Sabine notes the position of John Locke in \"Essay concerning Human Understanding\": \nHowever, with David Hume a contrary voice is heard. Sabine interprets Hume's skepticism by noting\nSabine revived the concept from its status as a political myth after Hume, by referring to Thomas Hill Green. Green wrote that government required \"will not force\" for administration. As put by Sabine,\nConsent of the governed, within the social liberalism of T. H. Green, was also described by Paul Harris:\n\"Consent of the governed\" is a phrase found in the United States Declaration of Independence.\n\nUsing thinking similar to that of John Locke, the founders of the United States believed in a state built upon the consent of \"free and equal\" citizens; a state otherwise conceived would lack legitimacy and Rational-legal authority. This was expressed, among other places, in the 2nd paragraph of the Declaration of Independence (emphasis added):\n\nWe hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.--That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the , --That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness.\n\nAnd in the earlier Virginia Declaration of Rights, especially Section 6, quoted below, founding father George Mason wrote:\n\nThat elections of members to serve as representatives of the people, in assembly, ought to be free; and that all men, having sufficient evidence of permanent common interest with, the attachment to, the community, have the right of suffrage, and cannot be taxed or deprived of their property for public uses without their own consent, or that of their representatives so elected, nor bound by any law to which they have not, in like manner, assented, for the public good.\"\nAlthough the Continental Congress at the outset of the American Revolution had no explicit legal authority to govern, it was delegated by the states with all the functions of a national government, such as appointing ambassadors, signing treaties, raising armies, appointing generals, obtaining loans from Europe, issuing paper money (called \"Continentals\"), and disbursing funds. The Congress had no authority to levy taxes, and was required to request money, supplies, and troops from the states to support the war effort. Individual states frequently ignored these requests. According to the \"Cyclopædia of Political Science\". New York: Maynard, Merrill, and Co., 1899, commenting on the source of the Congress' power:\nThe appointment of the delegates to both these congresses was generally by popular conventions, though in some instances by state assemblies. But in neither case can the appointing body be considered the original depositary of the power by which the delegates acted; for the conventions were either self-appointed \"committees of safety\" or hastily assembled popular gatherings, including but a small fraction of the population to be represented, and the state assemblies had no right to surrender to another body one atom of the power which had been granted to them, or to create a new power which should govern the people without their will. The source of the powers of congress is to be sought solely in the acquiescence of the people, without which every congressional resolution, with or without the benediction of popular conventions or state legislatures, would have been a mere \"brutum fulmen\"; and, as the congress unquestionably exercised national powers, operating over the whole country, the conclusion is inevitable that the will of the whole people is the source of national government in the United States, even from its first imperfect appearance in the second continental congress...\n\nA key question is whether the unanimous consent of the governed is required; if so, this would imply the right of secession for those who do not want to be governed by a particular collective. All democratic governments today allow decisions to be made even over the dissent of a minority of voters, which in some theorists' view, calls into question whether said governments can rightfully claim, in all circumstances, to act with the consent of the governed.\n\nThe theory of hypothetical consent of the governed holds that one's obligation to obey government depends on whether the government is such that one \"ought\" to consent to it, or whether the people, if placed in a state of nature without government, would agree to said government. This theory has been rejected by some scholars, who argue that since government itself can commit aggression, creating a government to safeguard the people from aggression would be similar to the people, if given the choice of what animals to be attacked by, trading \"polecats and foxes for a lion\", a trade that they would not make.\n\nAnother division that is sometimes made is between overt consent and tacit consent. Overt consent, to be valid, would require voluntariness, a specific act on the part of the consenters, a particular act consented to, and specific agents who perform this action. Immigrating into a particular jurisdiction is sometimes regarded as an overt act indicating consent to be ruled by that jurisdiction's government. Not all who are ruled by a particular government have immigrated to that jurisdiction, however; some were born there; however others argue that the power to emigrate from (i.e. leave) a jurisdiction \"implies\" such consent omission.\n\nIt has been pointed out that in jurisdictions where proportional representation is not used, but candidates are instead elected by plurality vote, a candidate can be elected despite the overt dissent of a majority of the people. Not every voter has necessarily had an opportunity to vote on the constitutional provisions specifying that plurality voting should be used; according to some theorists, this calls into question whether said voters have consented to be governed by the candidates who obtain plurality support. A counterargument is that, by failing to act through the process of constitutional amendment to change such provisions, the people have consented to them. A rebuttal to this is that in some jurisdictions, the means of amending the constitution are not completely in the hands of the electorate; the same issues arise, in claiming that the constitution left in place by the decisions of the people's elected representatives is consented to by the people, as arise in claiming that any other actions taken by said representatives are consented to by the people. Some proponents of the \"overt consent\" theory hold that the act of voting implies consent, while others question the connection between voting and consenting to a particular scheme of representative, since some voters may oppose the system as a whole but desire to influence decisions on particular issues or candidates.\n\nThe theory of tacit consent of the governed holds that if the people live in a country that is not undergoing a rebellion, they have consented to the rule of that country's government. However, this likewise meets with the criticism that tacit consent is incompatible with \"express\" opposition: i.e. the People cannot consent if they have no \"right\" to refuse.\n\nIn 1988, Edward S. Herman and Noam Chomsky described a propaganda model of news media in the United States in which coverage of current events was skewed by corporations and the state in order to manufacture the consent of the governed. According to the propagandist Edward L. Bernays, the public may be manipulated by its subconscious desires to render votes to a political candidate. The public relations techniques were described in his essay and book \"The Engineering of Consent\" (1955). Consent thus obtained undermines the legitimacy of government: \"The basic principle involved is simple but important: If the opinions of the public are to control the government, these opinions must not be controlled by the government.\"\n\nThe theory of literal consent holds the logical position that valid consent must denote final authority belonging to the people, rather than elected officials, therefore this implies that the people have the absolute sovereign power to overrule their government at any time via popular vote (or as stated in the Declaration of Independence, \"the right of the People to alter or abolish\" their government). Without this unfettered power, theorists hold that true consent cannot exist and that any government is therefore despotism via governing the people by force without their actual consent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "271622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271622", "title": "Conversations with God", "text": "Conversations with God\n\nConversations with God (CwG) is a sequence of books written by Neale Donald Walsch. It was written as a dialogue in which Walsch asks questions and God answers. The first book of the \"Conversations with God\" series, \"Conversations with God, Book 1: An Uncommon Dialogue\", was published in 1995 and became a publishing phenomenon, staying on \"The New York Times Best Sellers List\" for 137 weeks. The succeeding volumes in the nine book series also appeared prominently on the List.\n\nIn an interview with Larry King, Walsch described the inception of the books as follows: at a low period in his life, Walsch wrote an angry letter to God asking questions about why his life wasn't working. After writing down all of his questions, he heard a voice over his right shoulder say: \"Do you really want an answer to all these questions or are you just venting?\" Though when he turned around he saw no one there, Walsch felt answers to his questions filling his mind and decided to write them down. The ensuing dialogue became the \"Conversations with God\" books. When asked in a recent interview how does he ‘open up’ to God these days, Neale stated “I am reaching out to touch others with this information. When I reach out and touch others with this information I reconnect immediately with the divine presence.”\n\nContaining nearly 3,000 pages of material in total, the series presents a large number of ideas. The second and third books in the original trilogy deal with political and social issues.\n\nIn \"Friendship with God\", Walsch writes that God presents four concepts which are central to the entire dialogue:\n\n\nExistence is essentially non-dual in nature. At the highest level there is no separation between anything and there is only one of us; there is only God, and everything is God. The second statement, following from the first, means that we, in this seeming existence, lack nothing and if we choose to realize it, we have enough of whatever we think we need (or the means to create it) within us. The third statement combines the first two to conclude that God, being all there is and is thus always sufficient unto Itself, has no need of anything and therefore has no requirements of humanity. The final concept puts an end to our need to always be right. Given that we have and are everything, and there's nothing we \"have\" to do, there are an \"infinite\" number of ways to experience this, not just the \"one\" way we may have chosen so far.\n\nAccording to the books, God recommends many economic and social changes if people want to make a more functional, adaptable, and sustainable world, it recommends that more attention should focus on the environment. The conversations also speak of reincarnation and the existence of life on other planets.\n\nIn Walsch's first dialogue, God notes that \"knowing\" and \"experiencing\" oneself are different things. Before creation, there was only That-Which-Is, which cannot know or experience itself fully, without something it is not. It cannot know itself as love, since nothing exists but love. It cannot know itself as giving since nothing else exists to give to. It cannot experience itself in myriad ways because everything is one.\n\nThis present creation then, in Walsch's viewpoint, is established by and within God, so that sentience can exist which does not directly remember its true nature as God. Split into infinite forms, all life can live, experience, and recreate its nature as God, rather than just \"know\" itself as the creator in theory. It is essentially a game, entered into by agreement, to remember who and what we are and enjoy and create, knowing that ultimately there is no finish line that some will not reach, no understanding that is not without value, no act that does not add meaning to the future or for others. Walsch claims that God says that we have a common interest in keeping the game going, for there is nothing else to do except to experience our existence and then experience more of it, to uncover deeper layers of truth and understanding. There are no external rules, because all experience is subjective, and is chosen. But within this, there are ways that (it is stated and implied) people will gradually come to see their thoughts, words, actions are either working or they are not working. A thing is either functional or dysfunctional, not right or wrong. These rememberings take place over \"time\" and can take hundreds and thousands of lifetimes.\n\nBook 1 (page 4) argues that words are not the ultimate truth, rather words are symbols, and are open to interpretations. Thus the readers are advised to consult their own inner knowing or intuition to determine their own truth while reading the book, or any other book. Though the books bear the title \"Conversations with God\" and the author states in book 1 that he is \"taking dictation\" from God, the 'dialogue' is said to be between God and all people at all times. The question, according to Neale, is not to whom does God talk, but who listens. This is clarified by the statement that God can communicate with people in many ways (the next song you hear, the next sunset you experience, the next time you hear laughter, the next movie that really moves you), and not necessarily through words 'spoken' by God to a person. \"All these devices are mine. All these avenues are open to me. I will speak to you if you invite me.\" (CwG1, page 58). Jesus is said to have sought to lead by example, which is why he said, \"I am the way and the life, follow me\". Follow me meant that we should follow his example and become one with God - Jesus and other living things are/were not one with God presently (everything is happening right now with no space/time difference) - rather than become his followers. Jesus is supposed to have said, \"I and the Father (God) are one and you are my brethren\". This means that living things are all one (particles of the collective God) (Book 3, Chapter20, pgs. 329-330). Jesus is said to have said, \"without the father (God), I am nothing\". The father of all is pure thought which is the energy of life (Book 3, Chapter11, pg. 180). In Book 3 of \"Conversations with God\" (1998), by Neale Donald Walsch, it is mentioned that Mahavatar Babaji may at one time have resurrected himself from the dead, just like Lazarus, Jesus and other humans. When Neil asks God if reincarnation is a false doctrine, God replies that it is not. Neale then asks why some religions do not know the truth about something so basic. In response, God says that we must understand that humans have many fear based religions whose teachings surround the doctrine of a God who is to be worshipped and feared. It was through fear that the entire Earth society reformed itself from a matriarchy into a patriarchy. It was through fear that the holy priests got people to mend their wicked ways and heed the word of the Lord. It was through fear that the churches gained and controlled their membership. Churches even insisted that God will punish you if you did not go to church every Sunday, not going to church was declared a sin - and not just any church. One had to attend one particular church - if you went to a church of a different denomination that too was a sin. That was an attempt at control, pure and simple, using fear. The amazing thing is it worked. People will always believe in hell and in a God who would send them there as long as we believe that God is like man — ruthless, self-serving, unforgiving and vengeful. In the past, most people could not imagine a God who might rise above all of that so they accepted the teachings of many churches to fear the terrible vengeance of the Lord. It was as if people could not trust themselves to be good and act appropriately, on their own by their own built in reasons. So they had to create a religion that taught the doctrine of an angry, retributive God in order to keep themselves in line. The idea of reincarnation threw a monkey wrench into all of that. The church was proclaiming that you better be nice or else—and along came the reincarnationists saying you have another chance after this and another chance after that and still more chances, so don't worry. Do the best you can. Don't become so paralysed with fear that you can't budge. Promise yourself to do better and get on with it. Naturally, the early Church couldn't hear of such a thing that did two things. First, it denounced the doctrine of reincarnation as heretical, then it created the sacrament of confession. Confession could do for the Church goer what reincarnation promised. That is, give him another chance. There was a catch however - this absolution could not come directly from God, it had to flow through the church whose priests pronounced penances which had to be performed. These were usually prayers which were required of the sinner. So now you had two reasons to keep up church membership. The church found confession to be such a good drawing card that soon it declared to be a sin not to go to confession. Everybody had to do it at least once a year. If they didn't, God would have another reason to be angry. More and more rules - many of them arbitrary and capricious - began to be promulgated by the church, each rule having the power of God's eternal condemnation behind it, unless, of course, failure was confessed and then the person was forgiven by God and condemnation avoided. That lead to another problem. People figured out that this must mean they could do anything as long as they confessed it. The church was in a quandary. Fear had left the hearts of the people. Church attendance and membership dropped. People came to confess once a year, said their penances, were absolved of their sins and went on with their lives. There was no question about it. A way had to be found to strike fear into the heart again, so purgatory was invented. Purgatory was described as a place something like hell, but not eternal. This new doctrine declared that God would make you suffer for your sins even if you confessed them. Under the doctrine, a certain amount of suffering was decreed by God for each nonperfect soul, based on the number and type of sins committed. There were mortal sins and venial sins. Mortal sins would send you right to hell if not confessed before death. Once more, Church attendance shot up, collections were up, too and especially contributions—for the doctrine of purgatory could buy one's way out of the suffering. According to the church's teaching, one could receive a special indulgence but not directly from God - only from an official of the church. These special indulgences freed one from the suffering in purgatory which they had earned with their sins or at least part of it. These reprieves were granted to very few like those who made a huge contribution to the church. For a really huge sum, one could obtain a plenary indulgence. This meant no time in purgatory at all - it was a non-stop ticket straight to heaven. This special favor from God was available for even fewer. Royalty, perhaps and the super rich. The amount of money, jewels and land given to the church in exchange for these plenary indulgences was enormous. The exclusivity of this brought great frustration and resentment to the masses. The poorest peasant had no hope of gaining a bishop's indulgence and so the rank and file lost faith in the system with attendance threatening to drop once again. Then they brought in the novena candles. People could come to the church and light a novena candle for the poor souls in purgatory and by saying a novena (a series of prayers in a particular order that took some time to complete), they could reduce by many years the sentence of the dearly departed, extricating them from purgatory sooner than God would otherwise have allowed. They couldn't do anything for themselves but at least they could pray for mercy for the departed. Of course, it would be helpful if a coin or two were dropped through the slot for each candle lit. A lot of little candles were flickering behind a lot of red glass and a lot of pesos and pennies were being dropped into a lot of tin boxes in an attempt to get God to ease up on the suffering being inflicted on the souls in purgatory (Book 3, Chapter7, pgs. 126-130).\n\nIn the dialogue many philosophical ideas are presented that had already been advanced earlier by major Eastern and Western thinkers, but Walsch presents the information in language for modern readers and does not specifically cite any of these philosophers. In fact, Walsch claims that he had never known most of these ideas before his revelatory experiences. Since the beginning of the series, and especially in the latter volumes, Walsch and \"God\" acknowledge that most of the concepts presented are previously known to humanity, but are profound enough to warrant being explored repeatedly, and put into this cohesive unified form. Since humanity is still mired in strife and conflict, there is value in their restatement. Fundamental parts of Walsch's writings are also mirrored within other well known spiritual writings and traditions:\n\n\nThe following are the ten books in the \"Conversations With God\" Dialogue Books series. Each of these books is a claimed transcript of dialogue between two beings, Neale Donald Walsch and \"God\", with the exception of \"Communion with God\", which is written only by \"God\".\n\n\n\"Home With God\", we are told, is the final book in this series of two-way written communication {see HwG page 308, \"Our final conversation in public.\"}. In August 2016, however, Neale stumbled upon a \"new and unexpected dialogue\" continuing the original trilogy with a fourth installment released on March 27, 2017.\n\nThe first three books in the series are often called the CwG trilogy. In 2005, the trilogy was re-released as one combined 'Gift Edition' book. This edition contains the entire text of the first three books with 'God's words in blue ink and Neale's in black ink, and features a combined 3-in-1 index at the back.\n\n\n\nPlease see the Writings at Neale Donald Walsch.\n\nA \"Conversations with God\" movie shows the author's experience opened in theatres across the United States on October 27, 2006. Walsch is played by Henry Czerny in the film directed by Stephen Deutsch.\n\nConversations with God books 1 and 2, and Communion with God, narrated by Ed Asner. \nThe DVD version of the film was released on February 27, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "745163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=745163", "title": "Dual power (Russian Revolution)", "text": "Dual power (Russian Revolution)\n\n\"Dual Power\" () was a term first used by communist Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin (1870-1924), which described a situation in the wake of the February Revolution, the first of two Russian Revolutions in that tumultuous year of 1917. Two powers coexisted with each other and competed for legitimacy: the Soviets (workers councils), particularly the Petrograd Soviet, and the continuing official state apparatus of the Provisional Government of democratic socialists.\n\nLenin argued that this essentially unstable situation constituted a unique opportunity for the Soviets and Bolsheviks to seize power by smashing the weak tottering Provisional Government and establishing themselves as the basis of a new form of state power.\n\nThis notion has informed the strategies of subsequent communist-led revolutions elsewhere in the world, including the Chinese Revolution of 1949 led by Mao Zedong (1893-1976) after the Chinese Civil War (1927-1931 and 1946-1949) and in eastern Europe after World War II (1939-1945), such as in Czechoslovakia where after three years of post-war agitation and occupation by the invading Russian Red Army finally overthrew a moderate government with the Communists seizing power in 1948.\n\nAfter Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne, the resulting February Revolution led to the establishment of the Provisional Government and its counterpart, the Petrograd Soviet. The Provisional Government was composed of former State Duma representatives with approval from the Petrograd Soviet, whereas the Petrograd Soviet was made up of socialist leaders elected by a proletariat constituency. With the Russian government moving from an autocracy to this system of \"dual power\" with the Provisional Government and Petrograd Soviet constantly vying for power, there was much confusion on how both could coexist and govern effectively.\n\nIn this confusion, the Provisional Government realized the Soviet had the people's trust and enthusiasm. In the hopes of appeasing the Soviet and keeping the support of the population, the Provisional Government launched several very bold liberal acts and promoted civil liberties through means of freedom of speech, press, and assembly. Yet, other than strategic political motives, the Provisional Government understood that their power was illegitimate, due to the fact that they were not elected by the people. To solve the problem of illegitimacy, the Provisional Government was in the process of establishing the Constituent Assembly, whose members would be democratically elected by the people. The Constituent Assembly would never come to be under the Provisional Government's rule, as the elections were set after the Bolsheviks seized power in the October Revolution.\n\nAfter the February Revolution, Lenin published his April Theses and in it he expressed unhappiness with the February Revolution as he described it as a \"Bourgeois Revolution\". He pushed for the slogan \"All Power to the Soviets\". Lenin mentioned that a Proletariat Revolution is necessary, and expressed that he has no interest in cooperating with the Provisional Government or the other Soviet leaders who are willing to compromise. Other Soviet leadership were skeptical to Lenin's ideas since they were afraid that Lenin and the Bolsheviks were advocating for anarchism. Lenin also criticized the Petrograd Soviet for governing alongside the Provisional Government, and accused them of forgetting and abandoning socialist ideas and the proletariat revolution.\n\nThe Provisional Government's members primarily consisted of former State Duma members under Nicholas II's reign. Its members were mainly members of the Constitutional Democratic Party (known as the Kadets party), as the Kadets were the only formal political party functioning in the Provisional Government at its conception. The ideological and political ideas differed wildly throughout the party's leadership and members, but most were moderates, offering both liberal and conservative views at times. The Kadets and the Provisional Government alike pushed for new policies including the release of political prisoners, a decree of freedom of press, cessation of the Okhrana, abolition of the death penalty, and rights for minorities. The Provisional Government and the Kadets also wanted Russia to continue to be involved in World War I, much to the dismay of the Soviets. Despite certain political ideas, the Kadets became slightly more conservative overall with the rise of left-wing parties and left-wing thought within both the Provisional Government and the Petrograd Soviet. The Provisional Government realized that their power was not legitimate since they were former Duma members, and not elected by a general public. They knew that to be seen as a legitimate government body, they would need to be elected by the people, and they established the Constituent Assembly and scheduled popular elections to take place later in the year.\n\nAlexander Kerensky, a former member of the Fourth Duma and a chairmen of the Soviet Executive Committee and eventually the Prime Minister for the Provisional Government, was brought into the Provisional Government as a way to gain support from left-wing parties and the Petrograd Soviet. Kerensky was a moderate socialist, and believed that cooperation with the Provisional Government was necessary. Historian S.A. Smith explains that after the appointment of Kerensky \"Thus was born 'dual power', an institutional arrangement under which the Provisional Government enjoyed formal authority, but where the Soviet Executive Committee had real power.\" The Provisional Government feared the Soviets immense growing power, and through this fear they tried to appease them as much as possible. When Kerensky became Prime Minister, he attempted to work with the Soviets including arming the Soviets and their followers during the Kornilov affair. The attempts of Kerensky would not last for a while, as the Bolsheviks did not believe in compromise and overthrew the Provisional Government in the October Revolution.\n\nThe Soviet of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies in Petrograd served as the voice of the smaller councils of deputies elected by commoners, specifically soldiers and workers. The Petrograd Soviet, therefore, could claim a much better understanding of the people's will, since it was composed of many orators whom the lower class population elected. The Soviet was established after the February Revolution, composed of numerous socialist revolutionaries. However, its rapid rise to power meant the Petrograd Soviet did not have any legitimate claim to power, like its counterpart, the Provisional Government.\n\nThe workers and soldiers of Russia saw hope in the Petrograd soviets, and elected deputies to it en masse, causing it to gain membership at an alarming rate (1200 seats had been filled in a week). The Petrograd Soviet was seen as a benefactor that would bring them land, bread, and peace.\n\nThe Executive Committee was initially made up of Nikolai Ckheidze, Matvei Skobelev, and Alexander Kerensky. These men were socialists, but feared radicalism. To keep radical mentality from spreading and provoking a 'counter-revolutionary movement,' they chose to support the Provisional Government where necessary. This led to the uneasy balance of power called \"Dual Power.\"\n\nThe events of the July Days would solidify the issues of dual power within government between the Provisional Government and Petrograd Soviet. Between the dates of July 3 and July 7 (Julian Calendar date), a Bolshevik uprising, still disputed if intentional by Lenin, occurred. In what is seen as a \"grass roots\" uprising, workers and lower ranks of soldiers violently demonstrated in the streets, calling for the Soviet to take power over the Provisional Government. The uprising was supported by the Bolshevik Military Organization and Petersburg Committee, who sent in more support, but the leaders of the party had less concrete opinions about the demonstration.\n\nAlexander Kerenksy, head of the Provisional Government, led a crackdown on those involved with the events of the July Days and overthrow of the Provisional Government. The military was used to gather and arrest violent demonstrators, retake government buildings from Bolshevik forces, and dissolve military units that had participated in the attempted overthrow. The Provisional Government also attempted to undermine Lenin and his party by revealing their investigation of his ties to Germany, Russia's enemy during World War I. These combined actions would quell the Bolshevik uprising and support until August 1917 (Julian).\n\nThe reinstatement of the death penalty for soldiers, and Kerensky transferring the Provisional Government into the Winter Palace were among the actions that led to accusations of counterrevolutionary activity (reestablishment of autocratic government) by the Provisional Government. A new kind of duality between the classes (proletariat and bourgeoisie) was a split noticeable not only in government, but also in everyday life for Russians. This led to increased tensions between both theaters, and made it difficult for groups to collaborate. The Petrograd Soviet represented the Proletariat, while the Provisional Government members were part of the former State Duma, representing the old government under the tsar. This divide was also evident in the military, between rank-and-file soldiers and military officers. As World War I continued on, soldiers started to mutiny or to disobey orders from their superiors, while supporting the soviets, hoping to bring an end to Russia's involvement in the war.\n\nAlthough the Bolshevik party was largely put down after the events of the July Days, Lenin still believed that the group could gain power in government because of unsteadiness due to the dual power situation. In April he wrote that the time was not yet right for revolution, as the Petrograd Soviet was still involved and working with the Provisional Government, as well as stating, \"we do not as yet know a type of government superior to and better than the Soviets.\" With the July Days seen as \"Lenin's worst blunder,\" even though it was not necessarily his intention, the Bolsheviks were still not in place to take over the Provisional Government and Petrograd Soviet.\n\nHowever, with the Kornilov affair of August 1917 (Julian-style date), the Bolsheviks regained both power in their party, but also with the masses. With Kornilov's soldiers moving towards the capital of Petrograd (modern day Saint Petersburg) and the Provisional Government, Kerensky had released many Bolshevik leaders arrested during the July Days and also provided arms in order for the Bolsheviks to defend the Provisional Government. By arming and calling on those who he had earlier punished, the Bolsheviks saw that they truly were gaining power in the government and Russian society. The Russian population lost faith in the Provisional Government because of how it handled Kornilov's coup, and many began supporting the Bolsheviks, with the group winning elections throughout Petrograd, especially in districts made up of the working class. This event, coupled with food shortages, the continuation of Russian involvement in World War I, and mass unemployment, worked in the Bolsheviks favor, turning people away from the government in charge and toward the party that promised \"Bread, Peace, Land.\"\n\nWhen the Bolsheviks overthrew the Provisional Government during the October Revolution, they were able to do so with little resistance. The Provisional Government realized that their power was limited at the point of takeover, as the Bolsheviks had been gaining supporters and had more revolutionaries. When the actual overthrow occurred between the days of October 25 and 26 (Julian), Bolsheviks first seized means of transportation and communication, such as roads, bridges, railways, and post offices. Lenin then went to the Second Congress of Soviets of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies to present the overthrow of the Provisional Government and state authority by the Bolshevik party. The Winter Palace (at the time, the home of the Provisional Government) was seized without a causality the morning of the 26th, and the Congress had no choice but to approve Lenin's decree. With this, the period of dual power between the Provisional Government and Petrograd Soviet came to a close.\n\nAs the ideological monopoly of dominant institutions is broken and people increasingly rely on Alternative Institutions (AIs), those who benefited from existing arrangements may seek to dismantle their upstart competitors. At the same time, those who seek fundamental changes in society or who find the alternative ways of organizing it valuable may seek to enlarge and strengthen the alternative infrastructure. Counter institutions (XIs) are created both to defend the AIs and to promote their growth. These work to challenge and attack the status quo while creating, defending, and securing space for opposition and alternative institutions. They do this with everything from political protests, to direct appropriation (of plantations, government buildings, factories, etc.) for the use of alternative institutions, to civil disobedience or armed resistance. The line between AIs and XIs is seldom entirely clear as many alternative institutions are also self-promoting or defending. Together the AIs and XIs form an alternative source of power in society which is \"necessarily autonomous from, and competitive with, the dominant system, seeking to encroach upon the latter's domain, and, eventually, to replace it.\"\n\nDuring the process of building the alternative institutions and the ideology that supports them, the advantage of dual power is the creation of real, and not merely political, momentum towards the revolutionary transformation of society. Actual changes are ongoing, rather than postponed to a revolutionary moment, so needs unmet by the pre-existing order are being met during the struggle and no sector of society is told that its concerns can only be dealt with after victory is achieved. That is, creation of AIs and the political space for them has intrinsic benefits, apart from the advancement of the revolutionary project. Over the course of building AIs, the society at large is empowered, committed to change, and skilled in running society. Simultaneously, the credibility of a revolutionary vision is increased immensely by putting it into practice and by refining and improving it over time. It is also conceivable that factional splits between revolutionaries and reformers (and all the shades in between) could be reduced by having a common project that both find useful. Those forces that would be sent to suppress a revolutionary movement find themselves confronting people who have taken control over their own lives, rather than armed cadre attempting to impose a vision on the country, potentially obviating military conflict or at least reducing its severity. \n\nSuccessful dual-power rebellions end with the acceptance of the new social forms by much of the populace and the realization by the old rulers that they are no longer capable of using their systems of force against the revolutionary movement. This can occur because noncooperation has crippled the old structures of power, because too few people remain loyal to the old rulers to enforce their will, or because the rulers themselves undergo an ideological conversion. At this point, there is not general confusion. The disappearance of old leaders and structures of power is accommodated by the expansion of the alternative system. The alleged \"necessity\" for a revolutionary vanguard to guide the revolutionary impulse is shown to have no basis: because the people have already learned how to govern their own affairs, they need no tutelage from above. The possibility of co-option is minimized: \"When the people recognize their true power, it cannot be taken away by rhetoric or […] imposition.\"\n\nDual power is a strategy, rather than an ideology, and it could plausibly be used to advance a variety of forms of social change. However, the advantages of the strategy make it most compatible with perspectives that emphasize the exercise of power at the community level, that seek to make the revolutionary movement accountable to the people, that see the capability to revision and transform society as common rather than rare, and that seek decentralized forms of power. Call this version of the strategy grassroots dual power, the bottom-up transformation and replacement of the mechanisms of society.\n\nLibertarian socialists have more recently appropriated the term to refer to the nonviolent strategy of achieving a libertarian socialist economy and polity by means of incrementally establishing and then networking institutions of direct participatory democracy to contest the existing power structures of state and capitalism. This does not necessarily mean disengagement with existing institutions; for example, Yates McKee describes a dual-power approach as \"forging alliances and supporting demands on existing institutions — elected officials, public agencies, universities, workplaces, banks, corporations, museums — while at the same time developing self-organized counter-institutions.\" In this context, the strategy itself is sometimes also referred to as \"counterpower\" to differentiate it from the term's Leninist origins.\n"}
{"id": "9411731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9411731", "title": "Gabriel Turville-Petre", "text": "Gabriel Turville-Petre\n\nEdward Oswald Gabriel Turville-Petre F.B.A. (known as Gabriel) (25 March 1908 – 17 February 1978) was Professor of Ancient Icelandic Literature and Antiquities at the University of Oxford. He wrote numerous books and articles in English and Icelandic on literature and religious history.\n\nGabriel Turville-Petre was born into a Roman Catholic, landed gentry family in England, the fourth of the five children of Oswald and Margaret Petre (née Cave). His older brother was the archaeologist Francis Turville-Petre. Gabriel was born at the ancestral home of Bosworth Hall, Husbands Bosworth, Leicestershire in 1908. He was educated at Ampleforth College and at Christ Church, Oxford University. He studied for a B.Litt in English from 1931 – 1934 and was supervised by J. R. R. Tolkien.\n\nHe studied Icelandic and early Scandinavian literature and traditions from an early age, first in England and later in Iceland (where he spent several years) and in other northern countries.\n\nTurville-Petre married Joan Elizabeth Blomfield on 7 January 1943. They had three sons: Thorlac Francis Samuel (born 6 January 1944), Merlin Oswald (born 2 July 1946) and Brendan Arthur Auberon (born 16 September 1948).\n\nTurville-Petre was appointed the first Vigfusson Reader in Ancient Icelandic Literature and Antiquities at Oxford University in 1941, and was appointed Professor in 1953. He held the position until his retirement in 1975.\n\nHe was created a Knight of the Falcon (Iceland), a member of the Royal Gustavus Adolphus Academy (Sweden), and an honorary Life Member of the Viking Society for Northern Research. He was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 1973.\n\nTurville-Petre bequeathed his personal library to the English Faculty Library of Oxford University (Icelandic Collections).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7045002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7045002", "title": "Gawad Plaridel", "text": "Gawad Plaridel\n\nThe U.P. Gawad Plaridel is the sole award in the University of the Philippines System given to outstanding media practitioners.\n\nThe Gawad bestows honor on Filipino media practitioners who have excelled in any of the media (print, film, radio, television, and new media) and performed with the highest level of professional integrity in the interest of public service. The recognition, which comes with a trophy sculpted by National Artist Napoleon V. Abueva, is given to one practitioner in one medium for each year. The awardee is expected to deliver the Plaridel Lecture which addresses important media issues.\n\nThe award is named after Marcelo H. del Pilar (\"nom de plume\", Plaridel), the selfless propagandist whose stewardship of the reformist newspaper \"La Solidaridad\" from 1889 to 1895 helped crystallize nationalist sentiments and ignite libertarian ideas, mainly through his 150 essays and 66 editorials published under the nom de plume Plaridel. A crusading journalist, this native of Bulacan served as editor of the vernacular section of the Diariong Tagalog (Tagalog Newspaper), the first Philippine bilingual newspaper, in 1882. Among his major publications were \"Dasalan at Tocsohan\" (Prayerbook and Teasing Game), \"Pasyong Dapat Ipag-alab nang Puso nang Tauong Babasa\" (Passion That Should Inflame the Heart of the Reader), and \"La Soberania Monacal en Filipinas\" (Monastic Supremacy in the Philippines), all published in 1889.\n\nFrom 1890 to around 1895, he edited and published \"La Solidaridad\" almost on his own because funds for the support of the fortnightly had become more and more difficult to raise in the Philippines. Del Pilar slowly lost hope in reforms and began to entertain the possibility of the Philippines separating from Mother Spain.\n\nPining for his mother country and suffering from tuberculosis, Del Pilar died in Barcelona, Spain on July 4, 1896 at the age of 45.\n\nLike Plaridel, the recipient of this award must believe in the vision of a Philippine society that is egalitarian, participative, and progressive, and in media that are socially responsible, critical and vigilant, liberative and transformative, and free and independent.\n\nGiven annually, it started in 2004 with Eugenia Apostol, publisher and founding chair of the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" as its first awardee. In 2005, it was awarded to premier actress and current Batangas governor Vilma Santos, for film. Veteran radio broadcaster Fidela Mendoza-Magpayo, a.k.a. 'Tiya Dely', was the 2006 recipient. Cheche Lazaro received the award for 2007.\n\nFor 2008, Pachico A. Seares, editor-in-chief of Sun.Star Cebu and Sun.Star Superbalita (Cebu), was chosen as the recipient of the award for his \"outstanding contributions to the print media industry.\" The judges cited Seares' contributions to community journalism, among them: his major help in steering Sun.Star Cebu and Sun.Star Superbalita [Cebu] to become the readership and advertising leaders among community newspapers in the country, his “continuing advocacy on issues that serve community interest, adopting and implementing journalism values that serve as example to Sun.Star affiliate papers in their respective areas, inspiring the community and regarding the people as citizens who can help the community.”\n\nAfter the awarding rites, Seares delivered the Plaridel Lecture entitled \"The Future of Community Newspapers,\" which situated the country's community print media today, presented the success story behind the two publications he heads and its growth into a network of publications, and presented prospects for the field in the future.\n\nIndependent filmmaker Kidlat Tahimik (real name: Eric de Guia) was the recipient of the UP Gawad Plaridel for 2009. Known for his repertoire of independent films that mirror Filipino culture, including \"Mababangong Bangungot,\" Tahimik encouraged budding film-makers and mass communication students to unleash the \"sariling duwende\" in producing their own motion pictures.\n\nFor the first time, no one bagged the Gawad Plaridel in 2010, which was supposed to honor an individual who made significant contributions to community radio. In a statement issued by the UP College of Mass Communication, it was said that while many of the nominees had made a mark in the industry, they were yet to achieve the highest level of professionalism and public service expected of a Gawad Plaridel recipient. UP CMC also acknowledged the fact that community radio is relatively young but still had room to develop itself into a mass medium worthy of recognition.\n\nRadio drama talent and director Eloisa Cruz-Canlas received the 2011 Gawad Plaridel for her work in Philippine radio drama through the years. The awarding ceremonies for Canlas were held on July 20 at the UP Film Institute in Diliman, Quezon City. Canlas was the executive producer of \"Drama Sa Nuebe Nubenta\" over DZIQ Radyo Inquirer 990 and has worked with DZRH and Radyo Natin-Nueva Ecija for many years, portraying the popular character \"Lola Sela.\"\n\nThe 2012 Gawad Plaridel recipient was Florence Danon-Gayda or more popularly known as Rosa Rosal for her outstanding contributions to the broadcasting industry, particularly in the field of television. The UP College of Mass Communication honored Rosa Rosal with this recognition for her contribution to the Philippine Television industry, particularly in affecting media for public service. She is widely known for her efforts, privately and through her TV programs to promote blood donation and upgrading of Red Cross facilities, hospitals and clinics.\n\nThe 2013 U.P. Gawad Plaridel recipient was Jose F. Lacaba, also known as Pete Lacaba. Lacaba has put his considerable writing and communication skills, despite perils to his life, in the service of the Filipino struggle for social transformation, independence, and progress during the turbulent 1960s and 1970s through the Days of Disquiet, Nights of Rage collection and other articles and screenplays that were based on actual events and issues such as Sister Stella L., Bayan Ko: Kapit sa Patalim, and Orapronobis.\n\nNora Cabaltera Villamayor' or popularly known as Nora Aunor was the recipient of the 2014 U.P. Gawad Plaridel. She was recognized for her \"unique artistry and versatility as a singer,\" as well as for \"portraying with keen intelligence and uncommon sensitivity an amazing range of cinematic roles.\" UP CMC also cited Ms. Aunor for using her “tremendous popularity as an opportunity to (help) the masses...appreciate films and plays that dramatized and analyzed the abject conditions of the Filipino majority and the poor and powerless characters that she played with conviction.”\n\nRicardo Lee or Ricky Lee is the 2015 recipient of U.P. Gawad Plaridel, The one astounding practice of the tribe is the raising of Lee has produced a body of work that is marked by excellence through considerable writing of memorable films such as Himala, Jaguar, Salome, Moral, Karnal — films that tackled taboos and modern moralities in Philippine cinema. He has also put forward a distinct voice of the scriptwriter in the collaborative process of filmmaking and uplifted the role and the integrity of the scriptwriting profession that is rarely placed in the spotlight.\n\nThe University of the Philippines College of Mass Communication Gawad Plaridel recipient for this year is Francisca Custodio. Custodio started her career in the broadcasting industry in 1964 as an aide in the Accounting and Traffic Departments of the Manila Broadcasting Company AM station DYVL-Tacloban City. She rose from the ranks and worked her way up to become the present Station Manager of DYVL. As Station Manager, she was on duty the entire time typhoon Yolanda was ravaging their community. Custodio has continuously been spearheading the rebuilding efforts of DYVL.\n\nVeteran broadcaster Tina Monzon-Palma is the recipient of the University of the Philippines College of Mass Communication's (UP CMC) Gawad Plaridel 2017. She is a prominent Filipina anchorwoman. As a veteran broadcast journalist, Palma was a reporter who maintained “strength, courage, and dignity” during Martial Law in the Philippines. She is one of the first female news anchors on Philippine television. Tina began her work as one of the first news anchors of GMA Network when she first anchored News at Seven, The 11:30 Report and later GMA Headline News before she left in 1992 when Tina moved to the reopened TV5 (six years of post-EDSA revolution) and later ABS-CBN til present. \n\nBroadcaster Jessica Soho is the 14th person to receive this distinction — the highest honor given by the University of the Philippines System to a media practitioner. She was awarded because she believes that carrying on the tradition of journalism with integrity and with innovations in storytelling that speak both “to the heart and the mind.”\n"}
{"id": "13079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13079", "title": "Glottis", "text": "Glottis\n\nThe glottis is the opening between the vocal folds (the rima glottidis).\n\nAs the vocal folds vibrate, the resulting vibration produces a \"buzzing\" quality to the speech, called voice or voicing or pronunciation.\n\nSound production that involves moving the vocal folds close together is called \"glottal\". English has a voiceless glottal transition spelled \"h\". This sound is produced by keeping the vocal folds spread somewhat, resulting in non-turbulent airflow through the glottis. In many accents of English the glottal stop (made by pressing the folds together) is used as a variant allophone of the phoneme (and in some dialects, occasionally of and ); in some languages, this sound is a phoneme of its own.\n\nSkilled players of the Australian didgeridoo restrict their glottal opening in order to produce the full range of timbres available on the instrument.\n\nThe vibration produced is an essential component of \"voiced\" consonants as well as vowels. If the vocal folds are drawn apart, air flows between them causing no vibration, as in the production of voiceless consonants.\n\nThe glottis is also important in the valsalva maneuver.\n\n"}
{"id": "7367611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7367611", "title": "Great Mural Rock Art", "text": "Great Mural Rock Art\n\nGreat Mural Rock Art consists of prehistoric paintings of humans and other animals, often larger than life-size, on the walls and ceilings of natural rock shelters in the mountains of northern Baja California Sur and southern Baja California, Mexico. This group of monuments comprises the site Rock Paintings of Sierra de San Francisco, which is included on the UNESCO World Heritage List.\n\nThe rock art may be either monochrome or polychrome. Red and black were the colors most frequently used, but white, pink, orange, and green also occur.\n\nThe most common figures are humans and deer, but a variety of other animals, such as rabbits, bighorn sheep, birds, fish, and snakes are also represented. The human images often include stylized headdresses. A minority of human images are shown with sexual characteristics, such as male genitalia or female breasts. A minority of human and animal images are overlain with depictions of projectiles (presumably arrows or atlatl darts).\n\nThe images are essentially silhouettes, without representational details inside their outlines. Instead, geometrical patterns such as stripes or bands of different colors are used. A dorsal/ventral (front-facing) perspective is employed for humans, turtles, birds, and most fish, while a lateral perspective is used for deer and most other animals.\n\nOverpainting of earlier by later images is very common. Some murals seem to show intentional composition in their arrangements of multiple images, but in many cases the figures seem to have been painted individually, without regard to other nearby (or underlying) images.\n\nThe Great Murals occur in the sierras of Guadalupe, San Francisco, San Juan, and San Borja in the central part of the Baja California peninsula. To the north and south their place is taken by other, less spectacular rock art styles. Within the Great Mural area as well, pictographs and petroglyphs belonging to other styles are present.\n\nThe Great Murals lie within the ethnohistoric territory of the Cochimí, and they have been commonly linked with the late prehistoric Comondú Complex, although the Cochimí denied to eighteenth-century Jesuit missionaries that they were responsible for the paintings. Recent radiocarbon studies, both on materials recovered from archaeological deposits in the rockshelters and on materials in the paintings themselves, have suggested that the Great Murals may have a time range extending as far back as 7,500 years ago.\n\nNo consensus exists about the motivations that led to the painting of the Great Murals. Among the contexts suggested for their production have been hunting magic, warfare, shamans' traces, weather control, and ancestor veneration.\n\nThe existence of the Great Murals was noted by Jesuit missionaries José Mariano Rotea and Francisco Escalante in the eighteenth century. The first scientific studies were made between 1889 and 1913 by a French naturalist, Léon Diguet. Mexican journalist Fernando Jordan and archaeologists Barbro Dahlgren and Javier Romero reported on Great Mural sites in the early 1950s.\n\nThe Great Murals came to popular attention in the United States through a 1962 \"Life\" magazine article by mystery writer Erle Stanley Gardner. Since then, numerous investigators have documented and analyzed the sites. For instance, Eve Ewing has been studying the art for 50 years and has made over a hundred trips to view the different paintings. Particularly notable have been the extensive contributions from Clement W. Meighan, Campbell Grant, Harry W. Crosby, Enrique Hambleton, Justin R. Hyland, and María de la Luz Gutiérrez.\n\n"}
{"id": "52672278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52672278", "title": "Henchir-Belli", "text": "Henchir-Belli\n\nHenchir-Belli also known as Beled Belli is a location and archaeological site in Tunisia.\n\nKnown as Belali it was a Roman-era civitas in the Roman province of Africa Proconsularis. Column ruins of an ancient temple/church are still found in situ.\n\nThe ancient city was also the seat of an ancient bishopric, in the ecclesiastical province of Carthage. The only known bishop from antiquity is Adeodato (fl.411). The bishopric survives today as a titular see of the Roman Catholic Church, Carlos Alberto de Pinho Moreira Azevedo being bishop since 2004.\n"}
{"id": "1700129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1700129", "title": "Heritage trees in Singapore", "text": "Heritage trees in Singapore\n\nHeritage trees in Singapore are individual mature trees specially selected for protection by law under the Heritage Trees Scheme adopted on 17 August 2001. Implemented at the same time as the Heritage Roads scheme, it is part of a nationwide drive in tree conservation efforts not just within nature reserves, parks, and newly established tree conservation areas, but also anywhere else in the urban and rural environment of Singapore.\n\nTrees are added to the scheme through endorsement by a nine-member panel of experts, currently headed by Dr Leong Chee Chiew, Deputy Chief Operating Officer of the National Parks Board. \n\nSee Heritage Trees Register\na\n\n"}
{"id": "10304198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10304198", "title": "International Council of Onomastic Sciences", "text": "International Council of Onomastic Sciences\n\nThe International Council of Onomastic Sciences (ICOS) is an international academic organization of scholars with a special interest in onomastics, the scientific study of names (e.g. place-names, personal names, and proper names of all other kinds). The official languages of ICOS are English, French, and German.\n\nMembers research the origin and history of names, the personal name-systems used by different cultures, the demographic patterns of names in different societies, the use and significance of names of characters in literature, brand-name creation, and many related topics in the naming of persons, places, institutions, works of art, and other miscellaneous objects. They are also involved in practical projects such as the international standardization of geographical names. The aim of ICOS (as opposed to the many national societies for name-study) is the advancement, representation and co-ordination of name-research on an international level and in an interdisciplinary context. To that end, it is engaged in the publication of research and the development of research tools as described below. The Council's members are drawn from disciplines such as linguistics and philology, history, sociology, anthropology, psychology, geography and literary research. This organization has replaced the former International Committee of Onomastic Sciences, which was a closed society consisting exclusively of co-opted representatives of countries. The former body was therefore not open to individual scholars as the present one is.\n\nICOS publishes the annual journal \"ONOMA\", which is its official publication. \"ONOMA\" is managed by a General Editor in conjunction with an Editorial Board. It contains topical research reports as well as basic theoretical articles concerning all areas of scholarly name research. Presently, each issue is thematic, and has a guest editor. ICOS also publishes an irregular newsletter. .\n\nICOS has two active working groups, striving:\n\nThe International Congress of Onomastic Sciences, which is normally held every three years, is a major academic conference organised on behalf of ICOS by one of its members. The General Assembly of ICOS, which also functions as its business meeting, and at which its officers are elected, is usually held at these congresses. The ordinary business of ICOS is transacted by the elected Board of Directors.\n\nUntil the present, the following congresses have been run:\n\n\nThe next Congress will be held in Krakow (Poland) in 2020. \n\nThe Proceedings of each Conference to no. 20, as well as those of no. 23, have been published. Three volumes of no. 21 have also been published, and the first of no. 22, and the rest are in preparation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31029874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31029874", "title": "Inuit Sign Language", "text": "Inuit Sign Language\n\nInuit Sign Language (IUR, Inuktitut: or Atgangmuurngniq ) is an Indigenous sign language isolate native to Inuit communities of the Canadian Arctic. It is currently only attested within certain communities in Nunavut, particularly around Baker Lake and Rankin Inlet. Although there is a possibility that it may be used in other places where Inuit people live in the Arctic, this has not been confirmed.\n\nOf the estimated 155 deaf residents of Nunavut in 2000, around 47 were thought to use IUR, while the rest use ASL due to schooling. It is unknown how many hearing people use the language nor how many people are monolingual. As it is a highly endangered and relatively hidden language, it has no protection under the federal or territorial governments of Canada. However, IUR exists alongside ASL interpretation within the Nunavut Legislative Assembly as of 2008. Recently, there has been increased interest in the documentation of the language which would be done through the Nunavut Council for People with Disabilities and the Inuit Broadcasting Corporation (IBC). As well, there is push to expand the interpretation/translation programme through Arctic College to include IUR.\n\nAt least since the 18th century, hearing Inuit used some form of sign language for trade and communication between various Inuit languages, a similar role to that played by Plains Sign Language further south. This may have been IUR or at least its ancestor, as the region has a high incidence of congenital deafness. In the territory of Nunavut, for example, the incidence of hereditary deafness is six times that of southern Canada. The deaf are well integrated in the community, and there are perhaps two hearing people proficient in IUR for every deaf speaker, as in other communities with high rates of congenital deafness such as Martha's Vineyard. However, IUR is not (or no longer) used as a contact language among the hearing. Its users are the deaf and those hearing people they regularly communicate with.\n\nThe history of the language is not well known, with stories passed down from elders noting the use of IUR, or related languages/dialects therein, for generations where the language(s) would be used by both hearing and Deaf Inuk, especially out on the tundra. However, due to the sparseness of communities and the relative youth of the field of research, there is little understanding of who uses the language where. That being said, IUR has been shown to be passed down in some families through generations, regardless of deafness. In fact, deafness within Inuit society holds less stigma than it does within its southern neighbour's which leads to a wider acceptance and adoption of IUR.\n\nInuit Sign Language is a threatened language. A decline in use is in progress due to a variety of reasons, chief of which is the encroachment of ASL. As there exists no formal educational opportunities using IUR, parents are increasingly opting to send their children south to schools where ASL is the primary language of instruction or English–ASL interpreted curriculum; LSQ and/or French education appears to not hold precedence. This trend is seen in the fact that an estimated third of the population (47 in ca. 2000) use IUR as their native language. It is unknown the status of the language, though, outside of select communities within Nunavut.\n\nEfforts to protect and document the language are underway. Increasingly, there is support from within and outside the linguistic community to expand local programmes and to document IUR, especially after R. v. Suwarak, 1999, which saw an Inuk man put to trial where no interpreter was able to be provided as none existed. Through the Nunavut Department of Culture, Language, Elders and Youth (CLEY) and the Department of Justice, Dr Jamie MacDougall is spearheading a project with community members to document and revitalize the language.\n\nOfficially, Inuit Sign Language is offered no rights or protections beyond what is found in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, meaning no province or territory has established it as an official language. However, alongside ASL, interpreters have used IUR at Nunavut's legislative assembly since 2008.\n\nAs academic research into IUR is a new field, there is limited information related to its varieties. However, it is known that there is dialectal variation of the language across at least Nunavut, as to be expected from separated linguistic communities. It is reported that a sign language of Greenland is closely related to IUR with ASL and Danish Sign Language loans, but it is yet to be determined whether that is valid as Greenlandic Sign Language may be a variety or related to Danish Sign Language itself.\n\nBeyond dialectal variation, there is little known of the range of the language or whether not there are multiple languages that exist. It is said that Inuit have spoken IUR, or at least a variation therein, for generations across much of their territories, however no current research confirms those rumours. As such, IUR is unattested to the west of Nunavut.\n\nAs of 2015, there have been few linguistic studies on Inuit Sign Language, notably done by Schuit (2012) wherein they looked primarily at verb agreement and classifier use. Schuit makes note that at this early stage of research, they cannot say the absolute word order of the language; they plan to pursue further studies in negation and morphological typology later. Moreover, preliminary findings dictate that Inuit Sign Language does not exhibit a large amount of non-manual simultaneity, but that manual simultaneity certainly exists. As well, there exists limited verb agreement within the language, but all types of verbs found in sign languages (plain, agreement and spatial) can be found in Inuit Sign Language. Finally, Inuit Sign Language appears to be not a subject-drop language but, rather, one that leaves the subject unspecified, which aligns similarly with Inuit culture.\n\nIUR exhibits a three-way distinction between plain, agreement and spatial verbs. In plain verbs, one sees no reference to an object or subject, such as the following example:\n\nAlthough appearing to reference Ottawa, the verb, , makes no movement nor orientation to suggest it agrees with the object. However, agreement can take the shape of varying executions in different spaces, such as with:\n\nHere, the verb's location and movement shifts to agree with the subject of either clause. Additionally, agreement can be seen on transitive verbs such as the following where the verb interacts only with its object. Verbs agreeing with both subject and object are rare.\n\nFinally, IUR also uses spatial verbs with certain locative agreements. Some verbs set up a specific signing space in front of the signer whereas others use the index finger to locate absolutely a geographical point (also seen in the first example with ) as seen in the following two examples:\n\nSpatial localization, however, is not obligatory, as seen here:\n\nHere, the location remains unspecified even though it was known.\n\nOne unique feature of IUR is its absolute referents when referencing geographic locations. As in most other sign languages, signers will make a signing location in front of their body to indicate notions like 'here' or referencing a person abstractly. However, for geographic points, IUR references those locations absolutely using the index finger in the case of INDEX–LOC or other handshapes as is the case for PLANE–FLY–WITH–STOPS. The actual locations vary from local, nearby villages or cities to cities such as Winnipeg that are thousands of kilometres away. However far the referent is, the signer will invariably point or indicate the direction in which it is.\n\nIUR has both handling and entity classifiers as in many other sign languages. Its handling classifiers appear on transitive verbs and mark the direct object, such as PICK–UP:CL ('pick up an egg') or MOVE:CL ('move a box'). Entity classifiers have so far been identified in the semantic class of vehicles, animals, two-legged beings and flying birds, such as in: MOVE:CL GOOSE SHOOT++ ('geese flying in, I will shoot them out of the air'). Handling classifiers are used more frequently.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30993299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30993299", "title": "Jabal es Saaïdé", "text": "Jabal es Saaïdé\n\nJabal es Saaïdé (), Jabal es Saaide, Jabal as Sa`idah, Jabal as Sa`īdah, Jebal Saaidé, Jebel Saaidé or Jabal Saaidé is a Mountain in Lebanon near the inhabited village of Saaïdé, approximately northeast of Baalbek, Lebanon.\n\nSaaidé I & Saaidé II are archaeological sites of note in this area. In the summer of 1966, the Lebanese Army dug a trench at Saaidé I, and recovered a large number of tools and lithics including sickles, grinders, scrapers, chisels, awls and blades suggested to date to the PPNB or PPNA. Jacques Besançon & Francis Hours later discovered a Palaeolithic layer below the Neolithic level, recovering knives, arrowheads, scrapers and retouched blades along with a fragment of a small, flat, cutting axe.\n\nSaaidé II, almost in size, was first excavated in 1969 by Bruce Schroeder from the University of Toronto who found the site badly damaged by modern agriculture. Investigations have recovered a wide range of mortars and pestles, scrapers, chisels, borers, retouched microliths, geometric and non-geometric microliths. One grave was found with some tiny skull fragments from an adult aged 45–50 years. Local fauna consisted of turtles, birds (duck, goose, eagle) and mammals (badger, lynx, deer, ox, gazelle, sheep and goat). Jebal Saaidé is the only pre-agricultural village found in Lebanon to date. Inhabitants seem to have hunted different animals including lynx, red deer, gazelle, and some aquatic and migratory birds.\n\n"}
{"id": "43675871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43675871", "title": "Jafar Tabrizi", "text": "Jafar Tabrizi\n\nJaʿfar b. ʿAlī Tabrizi (also known as Farīd al-Dīn and Qeblat al-Kottāb) was a renowned master in calligraphy as well as a poet and scribe in the 15th century. He was noted for being competent in Nastaʿlīq as well as other six classical scripts. His prominent student, Azhar Tabrizi once called Ja'far the second founder of Nastaʿlīq asserting that he even surpassed his teacher.\n\nJaʿfar Tabrizi had a great role in the evolution of the “Nastaʿlīq script” after Mir 'Ali Tabrizi - generally known as the inventor of the Nastaʿlīq script - canonised the newly emerged script.\n\nJaʿfar Tabrizi was moved from Tabriz to Herat along with some other painters and calligraphers to work for the young Timurid Prince Baysonghor following his campaign to Tabriz in 823/1420. He did enjoy the sobriquet Bāysonghorī after being appointed to the head of the court library-workshop, where he was responsible for supervising the artistic projects as well as providing regular reports on the activities carried out in the library. Only one such report has survived to our time and is found in an album housed at the Topkapi Palace Library in Istanbul. It undated document is called the \"ʿArżeh-dāsht\" (petition), which contains information about several projects including the names of artists and artisans (calligrapher, painter, drawer, binder, illuminator, ruling-maker, etc.) involved in each section and their progress.\n\nThis important document was initially written in the format of scrolls, like verdicts and petitions used to be. It lacks \"bismillah\" at the beginning as well as the names of the sender and receiver, which in an official correspondence could only indicate that the heading and footing were damaged in the course of time and therefore trimmed. The size of the petition was basically one zar‘ (canonical cubit) long, which is 49.879 cm, meaning that the \"ʿArżeh-dāsht\" has lost approximately 4 cm of its initial length.\n\nJaʿfar Tabrizi copied a number of manuscripts both before and after joining the royal library of Baysonqor Mīrzā. Among works in his hand are the sumptuous manuscript of the Bāysonghorī Shāhnāmeh (1430), the Golestān of Saʿdī (1427), Khosrow-o Shīrīn (1421), the Khamseh of Nezāmī (1431), Kulliyāt of Homām Tabrizi (1413), Nasāyeh-e Eskandar (1425), The Dīvān of Hasan Dehlavī (1422), Lamaʿāt of ʿIrāqī (1432), Kalīleh-o Demneh (1431), Tārīkh-e Iṣfahān (1431), and also Jong-e Marāsī, an elegy upon prince's death in 837/1433. Following Baysonqor's death, Jaʿfar worked under the patronage of prince's son, ʿAlā al-Dowleh. He wrote poems portraying his court position at the service of Shahrukh Mirza, Baysonqor and ʿAlā al-Dowleh. He died around 860/1455.\n"}
{"id": "3115280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3115280", "title": "Janice Raymond", "text": "Janice Raymond\n\nJanice G. Raymond (born January 24, 1943) is an American lesbian radical feminist and professor emerita of women's studies and medical ethics at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. She is known for her work against violence, sexual exploitation and the medical abuse of women, and for her controversial work on transsexuality.\n\nRaymond is the author of four books: \"The Transsexual Empire\" (1979), \"A Passion for Friends: Toward a Philosophy of Female Affection (1986), Women as Wombs\" (1993), \"Not A Choice, Not A Job (2013)\"; co-author of \"RU 486\" (1991) and co-editor of \"The Sexual Liberals and the Attack on Feminism\" (1990). She has published numerous articles on prostitution and lectures internationally on many of these topics via the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women. Her statements on transsexuality have been criticized by many in the LGBT and feminist communities as transphobic.\n\nRaymond received a BA in English Literature from Salve Regina College in 1965, a Masters in Religious Studies from Andover Newton Theological School in 1971, and her PhD in Ethics and Society from Boston College in 1977.\n\nRaymond is professor emerita of women's studies and medical ethics at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. She was a faculty member at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst from 1978 on. When she retired from the University in 2002, the Boston Globe included her among the several \"marquee talents\" lost to the campus.\n\nSince 2000, Raymond has also served as an Adjunct Professor of International Health at Boston University School of Public Health. She has been the Five College (Amherst College, Hampshire College, Mount Holyoke College, Smith College and the University of Massachusetts Amherst) Professor of Women's Studies and Medical Ethics (1975–78), Visiting Research Scholar at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1990–91), Visiting Professor at the University of Linkoping in Sweden (1995), and Lecturer at the Sunan Kalijaga State Islamic University, Center for Women Studies, Yogyakarta, Indonesia (2002).\n\nFrom 1994–2007, Raymond was the Co-Executive Director of the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women (CATW). She is currently on the Board of Directors of CATW.\n\nDuring her tenure, CATW expanded its international work, especially in the Baltics and in Eastern Europe.\n\nIn January 2004, Dr. Raymond testified before the European Parliament on \"The Impact of the Sex Industry in the EU.\" In 2003, Raymond testified before a subcommittee of the United States Congress on \"The Ongoing Tragedy of International Slavery and Human Trafficking.\" She was an NGO member of the U.S. Delegation to the Asian Regional Initiative Against the Trafficking of Women and Children (ARIAT), Manila, the Philippines, hosted by the governments of the Philippines and the United States. In 1999–2000, as an NGO representative to the UN Transnational Crime Committee, in Vienna, she helped define the UN Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children, supplementing the UN Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime.\n\nRaymond is a former member of the Sisters of Mercy. She later left the convent and is now an open lesbian.\n\nIn 2007, Raymond received the \"International Woman Award, 2007\" from the Zero Tolerance Trust, in Glasgow, Scotland.\n\nIn 1986, Raymond's book \"A Passion for Friends: a Philosophy of Female Friendship\" was named the best non-fiction book of the year by the UK magazine, City Limits.\n\nRaymond has been the recipient of grants from the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. National Institute of Justice, the Ford Foundation, the United States Information Agency, the National Science Foundation, the Norwegian Organization for Research and Development (NORAD), and UNESCO.\n\nIn her 1993 book, \"Women as Wombs: Reproductive Technologies and the Battle over Women's Freedom\", Raymond examined how reducing infertility to a disease in the West has helped to promote the use of new reproductive technologies such as in-vitro fertilization and surrogacy. At the same time, women's fertility is rejected in the East promoting technologies of forced sterilization, sex predetermination and female feticide. The book was one of the first to look at the international reproductive trafficking of women and children as organized by the adoption, organ and surrogacy trade.\n\n\"Women as Wombs\", as the San Francisco Chronicle reviewer wrote, \"is a strongly written, carefully reasoned critique of ...'reproductive liberalism'.\" The Library Journal reviewer stated that \"...it is hard to resist her conclusion that many reproductive experiments can represent another form of violence against women.\"\n\nRaymond's 1986 book, \"A Passion for Friends: a Philosophy of Female Affection\", deviates from her work on medical technologies into the realm of feminist friendship as a basis for a broader feminist theory and politics. Carolyn Heilbrun in \"The Women's Review of Books\" wrote: \"Hers is a brave undertaking, and she begins by facing the central issue of women's friendships: the necessary relation of these friendships to power and the public sphere...Raymond's is the most probing and honorable discussion of female friendships we have...\" Published also in a UK edition, \"A Passion for Friends\" received the City Limits award for the Best Non-Fiction Book of 1986. Novelist Jeanette Winterson wrote that \"It's a complex, food-for thought book that rewards the time and concentration that it needs.\"\n\nIn 1979, Raymond published a book on transsexualism called \"\". Controversial even today, it looked at the role of transsexualism – particularly psychological and surgical approaches to it – in reinforcing traditional gender stereotypes, the ways in which the medical-psychiatric complex is medicalizing \"gender identity\" and the social and political context that has helped spawn transsexual treatment and surgery as normal and therapeutic medicine.\n\nRaymond maintains that transsexualism is based on the \"patriarchal myths\" of \"male mothering,\" and \"making of woman according to man's image.\" She claims this is done in order \"to colonize feminist identification, culture, politics and sexuality,\" adding: \"All transsexuals rape women's bodies by reducing the real female form to an artifact, appropriating this body for themselves… Transsexuals merely cut off the most obvious means of invading women, so that they seem non-invasive.\" In a 2014 interview, Raymond said that she had \"used rape as a metaphor\" in the sense of a transgender person's demanding \"access to women's bodies\" not as sexual property, but through hormonal or surgical construction to become women, and said that the metaphor was not appropriate and one which she would not use again in the same context.\n\nThese views on transsexuality have been criticized by many in the LGBT and feminist communities as extremely transphobic and as constituting hate-speech against transsexual men and women.\n\nIn \"The Transsexual Empire\" Janice Raymond includes sections on Sandy Stone, a trans woman who had worked as a sound engineer for Olivia Records, and Christy Barsky, accusing both of creating divisiveness in women's spaces. These writings have been heavily criticized as personal attacks on these individuals.\n\nIn 2000, Raymond co-published one of the first studies on trafficking in the United States entitled \"Sex Trafficking in the United States: Links Between International and Domestic Sex Industries\". In 2002, she directed and co-authored a multi-country project in the Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand, Venezuela and the United States, entitled \"Women in the International Migration Process: Patterns, Profiles and Health Consequences of Sexual Exploitation\".\n\nAmong the many articles she has published, her work entitled \"Ten Reasons for Not Legalizing Prostitution and a Legal Response to the Demand for Prostitution\" has been translated into over 10 languages. This essay looks at the legislative models that have legalized or decriminalized the prostitution industry and the rationales supporting them, and argues that legitimating the sex trade has made its harm to women invisible. Raymond supports the alternative legal model of rejecting legalization and decriminalization of the sex industry, and penalizing the male demand for buying women and children for sexual exploitation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32002668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32002668", "title": "John H. McClendon", "text": "John H. McClendon\n\nJohn H. McClendon is a professor in the Department of Philosophy at Michigan State University. He holds a doctorate in philosophy from the University of Kansas, and taught at Binghamton University, Eastern Illinois University, University of Illinois Champaign/Urbana, Bates College, and the University of Missouri before coming to Michigan State University. His areas of focus include African philosophy, marxist philosophy, philosophy of African-American studies, and the history of African-American philosophers.\n\nMcClendon is the editor of the American Philosophical Association newsletter, \"Philosophy and the Black Experience\". He is an ex officio member of the Committee on Blacks in Philosophy — American Philosophical Association.\nHe has lectured widely throughout the country and abroad, and was the Charles Phelps Taft lecturer for the 35th anniversary of the University of Cincinnati's African-American Studies Department, the keynote speaker for Black History Month at Mississippi State University, and a faculty member for the Schomburg-Mellon Humanities Summer Institute.\n\nHe is the author of the book \"C.L.R. James’s Notes on Dialectics: Left Hegelianism or Marxism-Leninism\" (Lexington Books, 2005) and several peer-reviewed articles and monographs in professional publications such as \"Afro-Americans in New York Life\" and \"History, Socialism and Democracy,\" \"American Philosophical Association Newsletter on Philosophy and the Black Experience\", \"Journal of Speculative Philosophy,\" \"Explorations in Ethnic Studies,\" \"Sage Race Relations Abstracts,\" \"Freedomways,\" and \"Ethnic Studies Review\".\n\nMcClendon, John. \"C.L.R. James’s Notes on Dialectics: Left Hegelianism or Marxism-Leninism\", Lexington Books (2005)\n\n\"The Afrocentric Project: The Quest for Particularity and the Negation of Objectivity\" in \"Explorations in Ethnic Studies\" (Special Issue Ethnicity: Global Perspectives), Vol. 18, No. 1, January 1995.\n\n\"Perspectives: The Contributions of Black Missourians to African-American History\", booklet published by the Black Culture Center, Black Studies Program (February 1992).\n\n\"Afrocentric History: Something New Under the Sun or the Same Old Song\". Essay review of Tsehloane's Keto, \"The African Centered Perspective\" in \"The African Americanist\" Vol. 4 & 5 (1992).\n\n\"The McClendon Report\", monthly news column in the \"Soul/Phisticator\" (1985–87), Dayton, Ohio.\n\n\"The State of Black Champaign County 1984\", Champaign County Urban League. Editor and Principal Investigator.\n\n\"Eugene Clay Holmes: A Commentary on a Black Marxist Philosopher\" in Leonard Harris, ed., \"Philosophy Born of Struggle: An Anthology of Afro-American Philosophy from 1917\", Kendall/Hunt Publishing Co., 1983 .\n\n\"The Afro-American Philosopher and the Philosophy of the Black Experience: A Bibliographical Essay on a Neglected Topic in Both Philosophy and Black Studies,\" S\"age Race Relations Abstracts\" Vol. 7, No. 4 (November 1982).\n\n"}
{"id": "5459668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5459668", "title": "Joseph E. Aoun", "text": "Joseph E. Aoun\n\nJoseph Elie Aoun (Arabic: جوزيف عون) (born March 26, 1953 in Beirut, Lebanon) is the seventh president of Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts, where he took office on August 15, 2006. Prior to taking on the presidency at Northeastern, Aoun was dean of the College of Letters, Arts, and Sciences at the University of Southern California. He joined USC in 1982 in the Department of Linguistics, and during his time at USC served as head of the academic Senate. \nAccording to Northeastern's 2016 IRS Form 990, Aoun's current annual salary is $1,311,729, with an additional $204,775 per year in other compensation.\n\nAs a theoretical syntactician, he is known for his work on logical form and wh-movement.\n\nHe is married to Zeina and has two sons, Adrian and Joseph Karim.\n\n\n\"Robot-Proof: Higher Education in the Age of Artificial Intelligence\" was published and released in 2017 by MIT Press. The book appeared over a year after Aoun wrote a commentary for the \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" that shares the first part of the book's title.\n\nIn \"Robot-Proof\", Northeastern University president Joseph Aoun proposes a way to educate the next generation of college students to invent, to create, and to discover—to fill needs in society that even the most sophisticated artificial intelligence agent cannot.\n\nA \"robot-proof\" education, Aoun argues, is not concerned solely with topping up students' minds with high-octane facts. Rather, it calibrates them with a creative mindset and the mental elasticity to invent, discover, or create something valuable to society—a scientific proof, a hip-hop recording, a web comic, a cure for cancer. Aoun lays out the framework for a new discipline, humanics, which builds on our innate strengths and prepares students to compete in a labor market in which smart machines work alongside human professionals.\n\nThe only certainty about the future is change. Higher education based on the new literacies of humanics can equip students for living and working through change.\n\nThe book was released on Aug. 25, 2017.\n\nOn September 12, 2017, Aoun appeared on C-SPAN to talk about \"Robot-Proof\" in which he argues for the need for better and continuous education to keep up with changing technology.\n\nIn an Op-Ed for \"Time\" on Sept. 26, 2017, Aoun said, \"Beyond simply conferring degrees, the foundational purpose of colleges and universities must be to educate — and that means equipping people of all ages, at all stages of their careers, to build successful and fulfilling lives. This means we need to take several important steps to make our students robot-proof.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49981678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49981678", "title": "Journal of Creative Communications", "text": "Journal of Creative Communications\n\nThe Journal of Creative Communications is a blind peer reviewed academic journal that promotes inquiry into contemporary communication issues within wider social, economic, cultural and technological contexts.\n\nThe journal is published three times a year by SAGE Publications (New Delhi, India) in collaboration with MICA-The School of Ideas, Shela, Ahmedabad, India.\n\nThis journal is a member of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE).\n\nThe \"Journal of Creative Communications\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21039969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21039969", "title": "Kenny Smyth", "text": "Kenny Smyth\n\nKenny Smyth, played by Shane Jacobson, is an Australian fictional character. Jacobson portrays Smyth as an amiable chummy type of person with a slightly gruff, but extremely cheerful character. Smyth appeared in the 2006 film \"Kenny\" and the TV series \"Kenny's World\".\n\nSmyth grew up on an orchard in Northern Victoria.\n\nThe film is about Kenny's life as a plumber and his personal life. He works at Melbourne's biggest events including the St Kilda Festival, Avalon Airshow and Melbourne Cup. He also goes to the World Toilet and Plumbers Expo in Nashville where he meets the love of his life, Jackie.\n\nThe TV series is about Smyth traveling the world to find out about toilets internationally. He visits countries in Africa, Asia, Europe and North America.\n\nSmyth has appeared in Australian shows including \"20 to 01\" and \"The Panel\" Christmas Wrap 2006.\n"}
{"id": "3281477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3281477", "title": "Kārlis Mīlenbahs", "text": "Kārlis Mīlenbahs\n\nKārlis Mīlenbahs (his surname was formerly also written as Mühlenbach, Mühlenbachs, Mǖlenbachs or Mīlenbachs) (18 January 1853 in Courland – 27 March 1916 in Võru, Estonia) was the first native speaker of Latvian to devote his career to linguistics. Mīlenbahs studied classical philology at the University of Dorpat (he did not remain at the university because of his poverty). He was the author of over a hundred scholarly articles on the language in Latvian, Russian, and German, but his main achievement was the Latvian-German dictionary that remains the most important lexicographical work on Latvian (the first four volumes were printed posthumously between 1923 and 1932 in Riga; the dictionary was completed and expanded by Jānis Endzelīns, with whom Mīlenbahs co-wrote other works, including a major Latvian grammar). His polemics with the poet Rainis led to an important essay on literary Latvian published in 1909, and he was also a translator of The Odyssey (1890–95).\n\n"}
{"id": "36276121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36276121", "title": "Margam Stones Museum", "text": "Margam Stones Museum\n\nMargam Stones Museum is a small Victorian schoolhouse near Port Talbot, South Wales, which now provides a home for one of the most important collections of Celtic stone crosses in Britain. All originally found within the locality of Margam, and mostly assembled as a collection in the 19th century, they provide enduring testimony to a Welsh Christian culture between the 6th and 16th centuries. The striking Cross of Conbelin is the most celebrated example. From around 1000 AD, it is a huge disc cross with Celtic interlace and plaitwork patterns, figurative scenes including a hunting scene, and inscriptions telling us who made it and who erected it. There are 17 early Christian stones, plus 11 memorials and other stones from the post-Norman periods. The museum is run by Cadw, the Welsh historic sites agency, and is close to Margam Abbey Church and the ruins of the Abbey buildings.\n\nPostcode: SA13 2TA. Access road is just north of J38 of the M4, south-east of Port Talbot. There is a car park for visitors to the Abbey, Museum and Abbots Kitchen Restaurant.\n\nMargam Abbey was a Cistercian Abbey founded in 1147, and the nave survives as Margam Parish Church. Upon its dissolution in 1536 the Mansel family acquired it, and built a mansion in the grounds. In 1786 it passed by marriage to the Talbot family of Lacock, Wiltshire, and it is they, during the 19th century, who began to gather together various stone crosses and standing stones in the locality. Initially they were placed in the mansion grounds. In 1892 Emily Talbot gave them to the nation, in the care of the Commissioner of Public Works. In 1932 they were moved into their present building, a former Church schoolhouse close to Margam Abbey Church. Other stones from the Abbey and the local area were added to the collection, which is now in the care of Cadw.\n\nOf the 30 or so ancient carved stones in the museum, 17 are pre-Norman, and are displayed on the ground floor. The remainder are Margam Abbey memorials, housed in the upper gallery, and are mainly tomb slabs. They include Cistercian and post-reformation memorials.\n\nThe pre-Norman stones form a distinct local group of early Christian carvings and inscribed text, and are described as one of the most important such collections in Britain. Ten of these stones originate from Margam and its outlying settlements. Four others came from the area that became the Port Talbot steelworks, and three are from the hills and farms of the wider area.\n\nThe stones in the museum are part of a much larger group of carved and inscribed stones found across Glamorgan dating to the early Christian centuries. They can be classified into three groupings:\n\n\nThe milestone dates to 309–313, the dates for Emperor Maximinus. It was turned upside-down and re-used in the 6th century, when a memorial to Cantusus was inscribed. It is a sandstone pillar, high, and by , first noted in 1839.\n\nThis stone is also known as the Pumpeius Stone, the Kenfig Stone, and by local tradition 'Bêdh Morgan Morganwg' (The sepulchre of Prince Morgan). It was first recorded in 1578. A squared pillar of Old Red Sandstone, tall, it contains both Latin and Ogham scripts. Two areas of Ogham script appear, written as notches along the side of the stone, on the same face as the Latin name.\n\nA stone pillar also known as 'The Margam Stone', and 'Carreg Lythyrenog'. It originates from a nearby mountain location, set into a prehistoric buriel mound, where a replica now stands. It was first documented in 1578, and local folk-lore declared that anyone reading the inscription would die soon afterwards. It is a stone pillar, high, with four lines of Latin inscription and an incised cross. On the back there is an Ordnance Survey bench mark, and various more recent carvings. It was moved to the museum before 1945.\n\nThese date from 600 to 900 AD and are crudely produced compared to the later sculptured crosses. Several of the Margam stones feature these incised carvings, including No 3, and the back of No 13. Only No 4 falls purely within this category.\n\nA tall cylindrical stone pillar with the top broken and missing. Three outline Latin crosses are cut in, and a short inscription. The pillar is high, with a diameter of , tapering slightly towards the base. It was discovered 'under a hedge' at Cwrt Uchaf Farm in 1857, before being moved to join the Margam collection.\n\nThese date from 900 to 1100 AD, and form the great majority of the Margam early Christian collection. Seven of them are from the immediate environs of Margam, and three are from the same location as the Pillar of Thomas, implying perhaps two pre-Norman monastic establishments in the area, using the local sandstone to create distinctive Celtic stone sculpture.\n\nThe earliest of the Glamorgan disc-headed crosses (along with one at Llantwit Major). The cross and stem have intricate lattice patterns with an inscription in \"insular majuscule\" script. First mention of this cross was in 1873, by which time it was in the Abbey Chapter house collection. It measures high, wide and thick, made from locally occurring Pennant sandstone. The circular head of the cross has been roughly cut back to make it a more even shape for re-use as building material.\n\nA disc-headed sculptured cross, with an inscription which fills the cross stem. First mentioned in 1697, it was in Margam Abbey Churchyard, south of the Church, until it was moved into the museum. It is high, wide and thick, made from locally occurring Pennant sandstone. The cross head is in diameter. It is made from a single piece of Pennant sandstone, although a thin tenon on its base suggests it was made to fit into a pedestal socket. Stylistically the splayed arms and wide circular armpits are similar to 10th-century crosses from the north of England.\n\nDate: 10th century\n\nThe largest of the Margam Stones, and with the most decorative and figurative carvings, the RCAHMW describe it as \"the most impressive of the monuments of this category in the county, if not in all Wales\". It has an immense stone wheel-cross with knot-work arcs, plaitwork cross, and a central boss. The shaft includes carved figures flanking the cross, taken to be St John holding his gospel, and the virgin Mary. This is set into a massive stone pedestal block with intricate geometrical patterns and a hunting scene which would originally have formed the front, but was at some point reversed, so is now at the back of the pedestal. Both parts are made from Pennant sandstone and it has been known traditionally as 'The Sanctuary Stone'.\n\nThe sides of this cross have been trimmed back, probably to use for building material. The cross and stem have decorative interlace panels. \n\nThis cross head has suffered considerable damage, such that less than half of the circular head of the cross remains. It has a crude interlace pattern\n\nSo-called 'pannelled cart-wheel cross' with an illegible inscription.\n\nCart-wheel Cross, found along with No 12 being used as a footbridge, which has caused severe abraiding of both the carvings and the inscriptions. First noted in 1693, it is smaller but otherwise very similar to No 12, the cross of Ilquici, and shares its subsequent history. It stands above ground, wide and thick, made from locally occurring Pennant sandstone.\n\nCart-wheel Cross, found along with No 11 being used as a footbridge. It was first noted in 1693, was moved to the Margam Abbey Chapter house ruins during the 19th century, and moved again into the museum building in 1932. It stands above ground, wide and thick, made from locally occurring Pennant sandstone.\n\nA stone slab showing a six-spoked 'cart-wheel' on the front and a linear 'ring cross' on the reverse. Although most linear crosses are dated rather earlier than the sculptured crosses, these are most likely to have been made at the same time.\n\nThis translates as 'The stone of Baptism' as it was wrongly thought to be a font. What was thought to be a central bowl is now identified as a pedestal with socket to hold a now absent cross. It has interlace pattern and moulded edging\n\nPart of a slab, the top of the cross, is missing. The holes through the cross arms may not originally have gone all the way through.\n\nPart of a slab, possibly made to lie flat over a grave. \n\nSmall grave marker \n\nIn 1147 the Margam monastery was re-founded as a Cistercian Abbey by Robert, 1st Earl of Gloucester and lord of Glamorgan. With French monks, an English lord and new Abbey buildings, there would have been little or no interest in the earlier monastery, and the early stones are the main evidence that survives. The Nave and west front of the Cistercian Abbey Church, on the other hand, survived both the reformation and a 19th-century renovation, and is now the Parish Church. The remainder of the Abbey buildings,including the Chapter house, with its memorials to the Cistercian Abbots, became part of the estate of the Mansel and then Talbot families, and are now part of Margam public park.\n\nThe Talbot family collected the early Christian Stones in and around the Chapter house, and under the care of the Commissioner of Public Works they were all re-housed in the current museum, including five grave-slabs and an effigy from the pre-reformation period, and four post-reformation memorial slabs. Following Cadws major reworking of the museum building in the 1990s these later stones are all housed in the upper gallery, creating a clear distinction between the early Christian stones and the Cistercian and later memorials.\n\nMost of the grave slabs give simple initials, but three that have names are to Robert, Abbot of Rievaulx (No. 21, 1307); Henry, the 9th Abbot (No. 23, 14th century) and a partial inscription in Welsh '...EV GORWEDD GORPH ELI[ZABETH] .. HON V GLADDWYD ...' ( [here] lies the body of Elizabeth ... who was buried...', (No. 25, c. 1600). \n\n"}
{"id": "71897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71897", "title": "Marwan Barghouti", "text": "Marwan Barghouti\n\nMarwan Hasib Ibrahim Barghouti (also transliterated al-Barghuthi; ; born 6 June 1959) is a Palestinian political figure convicted and imprisoned for murder by an Israeli court. He is regarded as a leader of the First and Second Intifadas. Barghouti at one time supported the peace process, but later became disillusioned, and after 2000 went on to become a leader of the Second Intifada from the West Bank. Barghouti was a leader of Tanzim, a paramilitary offshoot of Fatah.\n\nIsraeli authorities have called Barghouti a terrorist, accusing him of directing numerous attacks, including suicide bombings, against civilian and military targets alike. Barghouti was arrested by Israel Defense Forces in 2002 in Ramallah. He was tried and convicted on charges of murder, and sentenced to five life sentences. Marwan Barghouti refused to present a defense to the charges brought against him, maintaining throughout that the trial was illegal and illegitimate.\n\nBarghouti still exerts great influence in Fatah from within prison. With popularity reaching further than that, there has been some speculation whether he could be a unifying candidate in a bid to succeed Mahmud Abbas.\n\nIn the negotiations over the exchange of Palestinian prisoners for the captured Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, Hamas insisted on including Barghouti in the deal with Israel. However, Israel was unwilling to concede to that demand and despite initial reports that he indeed was to be released in the 11 October 2011 deal between Israel and Hamas, it was soon denied by Israeli sources.\n\nIn November 2014, Barghouti urged the Palestinian Authority to immediately end security cooperation with Israel and called for a Third Intifada against Israel.\n\nBarghouti was born in the village of Kobar near Ramallah, and comes from the Barghouti clan, an extended family from Deir Ghassaneh. Mustafa Barghouti, a fellow Palestinian political figure, is a distant cousin. Barghouti was one of seven children, and his father was a migrant worker in Lebanon. His younger brother Muqbel described him as \"a naughty and rebellious boy\".\n\nBarghouti joined Fatah at age 15, and he was a co-founder of the Fatah Youth Movement (Shabiba) on the West Bank. By the age of 18 in 1976, Barghouti was arrested by Israel for his involvement with Palestinian militant groups. He completed his secondary education and received a high school diploma while serving a four-year term in jail, where he gained fluency in Hebrew.\n\nBarghouti enrolled at Birzeit University (BZU) in 1983, though arrest and exile meant that he did not receive his B.A. (History and Political Science) until 1994. He earned an M.A. in International Relations, also from Birzeit, in 1998. As an undergraduate, he was active in student politics on behalf of Fatah and headed the BZU Student Council. On 21 October 1984, he married a fellow student, Fadwa Ibrahim. Fadwa took bachelor's and master's degrees in law and was a prominent advocate in her own right on behalf of Palestinian prisoners, before becoming the leading campaigner for her husband’s release from his current jail term. The couple has a daughter, Ruba (born 1986), and three sons, Qassam (born 1985), Sharaf (born 1989) and Arab (born 1990).\n\nBarghouti became one of the major leaders in the West Bank of the First Intifada in 1987, leading Palestinians in a mass uprising against Israeli occupation. During the uprising, he was arrested by Israel and deported to Jordan for incitement, where he stayed for seven years until he was permitted to return under the terms of the Oslo Accords in 1994.\n\nAlthough he was a strong supporter of the peace process he doubted that Israel was committed to land-for-peace deals. In 1996, he was elected to the Palestinian Legislative Council, following which he began his active advocacy of the establishment of an independent Palestinian state. Barghouti campaigned against corruption in Arafat's administration and human rights violations by its security services, and he established relationships with a number of Israeli politicians and members of Israel's peace movement. The formal position occupied by Barghouti was Secretary-General of Fatah in the West Bank. By the summer of 2000, particularly after the Camp David summit failed, Barghouti was disillusioned and said that popular protests and \"new forms of military struggle\" would be features of the \"next Intifada\".\n\nIn September 2000, the Second Intifada began. Barghouti became increasingly popular as a leader of the Fatah armed branch, the Tanzim, seen as one of the major forces fighting against the Israel Defense Forces. Barghouti led marches to Israeli checkpoints, where riots broke out against Israeli soldiers and spurred on Palestinians in speeches at funerals and demonstrations, condoning the use of force to expel Israel from the West Bank and Gaza Strip. He has stated that, \"I, and the Fatah movement to which I belong, strongly oppose attacks and the targeting of civilians inside Israel, our future neighbor, I reserve the right to protect myself, to resist the Israeli occupation of my country and to fight for my freedom\" and has said, \"I still seek peaceful coexistence between the equal and independent countries of Israel and Palestine based on full withdrawal from Palestinian territories occupied in 1967.\"\n\nAs the Palestinian death toll in the Second Intifada increased, Barghouti called for Palestinians to target Israeli soldiers and settlers in the West Bank and Gaza. During the second intifada Barghouti was accused by Israel of being a senior member of the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades, an organization which conducted numerous attacks and suicide bombings on civilians both within and outside of Israel proper, and has been accused of having directed some of these bombings personally. While some Palestinian militants advocated adopting tactics based on those used by Hezbollah to drive the Israeli army out of Lebanon, Barghouti was seen as less radical, supporting violent actions based on popular movements but exclusively within the Palestinian territories.\n\nAccording to National Public Radio, Barghouti \"cut his ideological teeth as the political leader of Fatah's armed militant wing, the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades.\n\nIsrael accused him of founding the al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades and attempted to assassinate him in 2001. The missile hit his bodyguard's car, killing the bodyguard. Barghouti survived but was arrested by the Israeli Army in Ramallah, on 15 April 2002 and transferred to the 'Russian Compound' police station in Jerusalem.\n\nAmos Harel wrote in \"Haaretz\" that Barghouti was arrested by soldiers of the Duchifat Battalion who had approached the building hidden in an ambulance to avoid detection: \"The Duchifat soldiers were squeezed into a protected ambulance in order to arrive as quickly as possible at the house where Barghouti was hiding, and to seal it off.\"\n\nSeveral months later, he was indicted in an Israeli civilian court on 26 charges of murder and attempted murder stemming from attacks carried out by the al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades on Israeli civilians and soldiers.\n\nMarwan Barghouti refused to present a defense to the charges brought against him, maintaining throughout that the trial was illegal and illegitimate. The Israeli verdict against him in effect removed Arafat's only political rival. Barghouti stressed that he supported armed resistance to the Israeli occupation, but condemned attacks on civilians inside Israel. According to the case argued by Israel at his trial, he had supported and authorized such attacks. On 20 May 2004, he was convicted of five counts of murder: authorizing and organizing the murder of Georgios Tsibouktzakis, a shooting adjacent to Giv'at Ze'ev in which a civilian was killed, and the Seafood Market attack in Tel Aviv in which three civilians were killed. In addition, he was convicted of attempted murder for a failed car bomb attack near Malha Mall that exploded prematurely, resulting in the deaths of two suicide bombers, and for membership and activity in a terrorist organization. He was acquitted of 21 counts of murder in 33 other attacks as no proof was brought to link Barghouti directly with the specific decisions of the local leadership of the Tanzim to carry out these particular attacks. On 6 June 2004, he was sentenced to the maximum possible punishment for his convictions: five cumulative life sentences for the murders and an additional 40 years, consisting of 20 years each for attempted murder and for membership and activity in a terrorist organization.\n\nThe Inter-Parliamentary Union reviewed the case and released a report that criticized Barghouti's arrest, treatment while in detention, and trial. It said his rights were violated and international treaties and norms were contravened.\n\nSince Barghouti's arrest, many of his supporters have campaigned for his release. They include prominent Palestinian figures, members of European Parliament and the Israeli group Gush Shalom. Reuters reported that some see Barghouti \"as a Palestinian Nelson Mandela, the man who could galvanize a drifting and divided national movement if only he were set free by Israel\". According to \"The Jerusalem Post\", \"[u]nlike many in the Western media, Palestinian journalists and writers have rarely - if ever - referred to Barghouti as...the 'Palestinian Nelson Mandela.'\"\n\nAnother approach is to suggest that Israel's freeing of Barghouti would be an excellent show of good faith in the peace process. This view gained popularity among the Israeli left after the 2005 Disengagement from the Gaza Strip. Still others, operating from a realpolitik perspective, have pointed out that allowing Barghouti to re-enter Palestinian politics could serve to bolster Fatah against gains in Hamas' popularity. According to Pinhas Inbari of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs,\n\n\"\"Hamas understands it needs to provide its supporters with some comfort, especially seeing the suffering of the Palestinian people. For this reason, Hamas is willing to accept Barghouti's release and to deal with him after he is free. Without the severe state of the Palestinian people, Hamas would object to the release of Barghouti.\"\n\nFollowing Barghouti's January 2006 re-election to the Palestinian Legislative Council, a debate over Barghouti's fate began anew in Israel, ranging from former MK Yossi Beilin's support for a Presidential pardon to the total refusal of any idea of early release. Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom stated,\n\n\"\"We must not forget that he is a cold-blooded murderer who was sentenced by the court to five life sentences… It is out of the question to free an assassin who has blood on his hands and was duly sentenced by a court.\"\n\nHowever several MKs, including Kadima MK Meir Sheetrit, suggested that Barghouti will likely be released as part of future peace negotiations, although they did not specify when. In January 2007, Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres declared that he would sign a presidential pardon for Marwan Barghouti if elected to the Israeli presidency. However, despite Peres winning the presidency, a pardon was not issued.\n\nOn 14 December 2005, Barghouti announced that he had formed a new political party, al-Mustaqbal (\"The Future\"), mainly composed of members of Fatah's \"Young Guard\", who repeatedly expressed frustration with the entrenched corruption in the party. The list, which was presented to the Palestinian Authority's central elections committee on that day, included Mohammed Dahlan, Kadoura Fares, Samir Mashharawi and Jibril Rajoub.\n\nThe split followed Barghouti's earlier refusal of Mahmoud Abbas' offer to be second on the Fatah party's parliamentary list, behind Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei. Barghouti had actually topped the list, but this had not become apparent until after the new party had been registered.\n\nReactions to the news was split. Some suggested that the move was a positive step towards peace, as Barghouti's new party could help reform major problems in Palestinian government. Others raised concern that it could wind up splitting the Fatah vote, inadvertently helping Hamas. Barghouti's supporters argued that al-Mustaqbal would split the votes of both parties, both from disenchanted Fatah members as well as moderate Hamas voters who do not agree with Hamas' political goals, but rather its social work and hard position on corruption. Some observers also hypothesized that the formation of al-Mustaqbal was mostly a negotiating tactic to get members of the Young Guard into higher positions of power within Fatah and its electoral list.\n\nBarghouti eventually was convinced that the idea of leading a new party, especially one that was created by splitting from Fatah, would be unrealistic while he was still in prison. Instead he stood as a Fatah candidate in the January 2006 PLC elections, comfortably regaining his seat in the Palestinian Parliament.\n\nIn late 2004, Barghouti announced from his Israeli prison his intention to run in the Palestinian Authority presidential election in January 2005, called for following the death of President Yasser Arafat in November. On 26 November 2004, it appeared he would withdraw from the contest following pressure from the Fatah faction to support the candidacy of Mahmoud Abbas. However, just before the deadline on 1 December, Barghouti's wife registered him as an independent candidate. On 12 December, facing pressure from Fatah to withdraw in favor of Abbas, he chose to abandon his candidacy for the benefit of Palestinian unity. On 11 May 2006, Palestinian leaders held in Israeli prisons released the National Conciliation Document of the Prisoners. The document was a proposal initiated by Marwan Barghouti and leaders of Hamas, the PFLP, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad and the DFLP that proposed a basis upon which a coalition government should be formed in the Palestinian Legislative Council. This came as a result of the political stalemate in the Palestinian territories that followed Hamas' election to the PLC in January 2006. Crucially, the document also called for negotiation with the state of Israel in order to achieve lasting peace. The document quickly gained popular currency and is now considered the bedrock upon which a national unity government should be achieved. According to Haaretz, Barghouti, although not officially represented in the negotiations of a Palestinian unity government in February 2007, played a major role in mediating between Hamas and Fatah and formulating the compromise reached on 8 February 2007. In 2009, he was elected to party leadership at the Fatah Conference in Bethlehem.\n\nIn April 2017 he organized a hunger strike of Palestinian security prisoners in Israeli jails. He laid out the motivation behind the strike in an op-ed in the New York Times. On 7 May, the Israel Prison Service released a video allegedly showing Barghouti secretly eating snacks in his prison cell, once on 27 April and again on 5 May. According to \"Haaretz\", anonymous sources in the prison service said food was made available to Barghouti as part of a setup to check his adherence to his hunger strike. Barghouti's wife said that the video was faked and was intended to undermine the hunger strike.\n\nDespite being out of the public eye for a few years, Marwan Barghouti remains a popular leader among the Palestinian people. According to polling data in mid-2012, 60% of Palestinians would vote for him for president of the Palestinian Authority if they were given that chance, and he would beat both Mahmoud Abbas and Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh for the top post.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20239", "title": "Minimal pair", "text": "Minimal pair\n\nIn phonology, minimal pairs are pairs of words or phrases in a particular language, spoken or signed, that differ in only one phonological element, such as a phoneme, toneme or chroneme, and have distinct meanings. They are used to demonstrate that two phones are two separate phonemes in the language.\n\nMany phonologists in the middle part of the 20th century had a strong interest in developing techniques for discovering the phonemes of unknown languages, and in some cases, they set up writing systems for the languages. The major work of Kenneth Pike on the subject is \"Phonemics: a technique for reducing languages to writing\". The minimal pair was an essential tool in the discovery process and was found by substitution or commutation tests.\n\nModern phonology is much less interested in such issues, and the minimal pair is consequently considered to be of little theoretical importance.\n\nAs an example for English vowels, the pair \"let\" + \"lit\" can be used to demonstrate that the phones (in let) and (in lit) actually represent distinct phonemes and . An example for English consonants is the minimal pair of \"pat\" + \"bat\". The following table shows other pairs demonstrating the existence of various distinct phonemes in English. All of the possible minimal pairs for any language may be set out in the same way.\n\nPhonemic differentiation may vary between different dialects of a language so a particular minimal pair in one accent may be a pair of homophones in another. That means not that one of the phonemes is absent in the homonym accent but only that it is not contrastive in the same range of contexts.\n\nIn addition to the minimal pairs of vowels and consonants provided above, others may be found:\n\nMany languages show contrasts between long and short vowels and consonants. A distinctive difference in length is attributed by some phonologists to a unit called a chroneme. Thus, Italian has the following minimal pair that is based on long and short :\n\nHowever, in such a case it is not easy to decide whether a long vowel or consonant should be treated as having an added chroneme or simply as a geminate sound with phonemes.\n\nClassical Latin, German, some Italian dialects, almost all Uralic languages, Thai, and many other languages also have distinctive length in vowels. An example is the \"cŭ/cū\" minimal pair in the dialect that is spoken near Palmi (Calabria, Italy):\n\nIn some languages like Italian, word-initial consonants are geminated after certain vowel-final words in the same prosodic unit. Sometimes, the phenomenon can create some syntactic-gemination-minimal-pairs:\nIn the example, the graphical accent on \"dà\" is just a diacritical mark that does not change the pronunciation of the word itself. However, in some specific areas, like Tuscany, both phrases are pronounced and so can be distinguished only from the context.\n\nMinimal pairs for tone contrasts in tone languages can be established; some writers refer to that as a contrast involving a toneme. For example, Kono distinguishes high tone and low tone on syllables: \nLanguages in which stress may occur in different positions within the word often have contrasts that can be shown in minimal pairs, as in Greek and Spanish:\nEnglish-speakers are able to hear the difference between, for example, \"great ape\" and \"grey tape\", but phonemically, the two phrases are identical: . The difference between the two phrases, which constitute a minimal pair, is said to be one of juncture. At the word boundary, a \"plus juncture\" /+/ is posited and said to be the factor conditioning allophones to allow distinctivity: the result is that \"great ape\" has an diphthong shortened by pre-fortis clipping and, since it is not syllable-initial, a with little aspiration (variously , , , , etc., depending on dialect); meanwhile in \"grey tape\", the has its full length and the is aspirated .\n\nOnly languages with allophonic differences associated with grammatical boundaries have juncture as a phonological element. It is claimed that French does not have juncture as a phonological element so, for example, \" (little holes) and \" (little wheels), phonemically both , are phonetically identical.\n\nThe principle of a simple binary opposition between the two members of a minimal pair may be extended to cover a minimal set in which a number of words differ from one another in terms of one phone in a particular position in the word. For example, the vowels , , , , of Swahili are shown to be distinct by the following set of words:\n\"pata\" 'hinge', \"peta\" 'bend', \"pita\" 'pass', \"pota\" 'twist', \"puta\" 'thrash'. However, establishing such sets is not always straightforward and may require very complex study of multiple oppositions as expounded by, for example, Nikolai Trubetzkoy. The subject is beyond the scope of this article.\n\nMinimal pairs were an important part of the theory of pronunciation teaching during its development in the period of structuralist linguistics, particularly in the 1940s and 1950s, and minimal pair drills were widely used to train students to discriminate among the phonemes of the target language. However, later writers have criticized the approach as being artificial and lacking in relevance to language learners' needs.\n\nSome writers have claimed that learners are likely not to hear differences between phones if the difference is not a phonemic one. One of the objectives of contrastive analysis of languages' sound systems was to identify points of likely difficulty for language learners that would arise from differences in phoneme inventories between the native language and the target language. However, experimental evidence for this claim is hard to find, and the claim should be treated with caution.\n\nIn the past, signs were considered holistic forms without internal structure. However, the discovery in the mid-20th century that minimal pairs also exist in sign languages showed that sign languages have sublexical structure. Signs consist of phonemes, which are specifications for location, movement, handshape, orientation, and non-manual elements. When signs differ in only one of these specifications, they form a minimal pair. For instance, the German Sign Language signs shoes and socks are identical in form apart from their handshapes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20348262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20348262", "title": "Moon (film)", "text": "Moon (film)\n\nMoon is a 2009 science fiction film directed by Duncan Jones and written by Nathan Parker from a story by Jones. The film follows Sam Bell (Sam Rockwell), a man who experiences a personal crisis as he nears the end of a three-year solitary stint mining helium-3 on the far side of the Moon. It was the feature debut of director Duncan Jones. Kevin Spacey voices Sam's robot companion, GERTY. \"Moon\" premiered at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival and was released in selected cinemas in New York and Los Angeles on 12 June 2009. The release was expanded to additional theatres in the United States on 10 July and to the United Kingdom on 17 July.\n\n\"Moon\" was modestly budgeted and grossed just under $10 million worldwide but was well-received by critics. Rockwell's performance found praise as did the film's scientific realism and plausibility. It won numerous film critic and film festival awards and was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best British Film.\n\nIn the near future, Lunar Industries has made a fortune after an oil crisis by building Sarang Station, an automated facility on the far side of the Moon to mine the alternative fuel helium-3 from lunar soil, rich in the material. The facility is fully automated, requiring only a single human to maintain operations, oversee the harvesters, and launch canisters bound for Earth containing the extracted helium-3. Sam Bell nears the end of his three-year work contract at Sarang Station. Chronic communication problems have disabled his live feed from Earth and limit him to occasional recorded messages from his wife Tess, who was pregnant with their daughter Eve when he left. His only companion is an artificial intelligence named GERTY, who assists with the base's automation and provides comfort for him.\n\nTwo weeks before his return to Earth, Sam begins to suffer from hallucinations of a teenage girl. One such image distracts him while out recovering a helium-3 canister from a harvester, causing him to crash his lunar rover into the harvester. Rapidly losing cabin air from the crash, Sam falls unconscious.\n\nSam awakes in the base infirmary with no memory of the accident. He overhears GERTY having what appears to be a live chat with Lunar Industries management. Lunar Industries then orders Sam to remain on base and informs him that a rescue team will arrive to repair the harvester. Suspicious, Sam manufactures a fake problem to persuade GERTY to let him outside. He travels to the crashed rover, where he finds his unconscious doppelgänger. He brings the double back to the base and tends to his injuries. The two Sams start to wonder if one is a clone of the other. After a heated argument and physical altercation, they coerce GERTY into revealing that they are both clones of the original Sam Bell. GERTY activated the newest clone after the rover crash, and convinced him that he was at the beginning of his three-year contract.\n\nThe two Sams search the facility, discovering a secret vault containing hundreds of hibernating clones and a communications substation beyond the facility's perimeter which has been interfering with the live feed from Earth. They determine that Lunar Industries is unethically using clones of the original Sam Bell to avoid the cost of training and transporting new astronauts, as well as deliberately jamming the live feed in order to prevent the clones from contacting Earth; clones who believe they're entering the final hibernation at the end of their contract just before their final return to Earth are in fact incinerated. The older Sam clone drives past the interference radius in a second rover and tries to call Tess on Earth. He instead makes contact with Eve, now 15 years old, who says Tess died \"some years ago\". He hangs up when Eve tells her father (offscreen, identified as \"Original Sam\" in closed captioning) that someone is calling regarding Tess.\n\nThe two Sams realize that the incoming rescue team will kill them both if they are found together. The newer Sam convinces GERTY to wake another clone, planning to leave the awakened clone in the crashed rover and send the older Sam to Earth in one of the helium-3 transports. But the older Sam, having learned that the clones are designed to \"break down\" at the end of the 3-year contract, knows that he will not live much longer. With his health declining, the older Sam suggests that he be placed back into the crashed rover to die so Lunar Industries will not suspect anything, while the younger Sam escapes instead.\nFollowing GERTY's advice, the younger Sam reboots GERTY to wipe its records of the events. Before leaving, the younger clone reprograms a harvester to crash and wreck the jamming antenna, thereby enabling live communications with Earth. The older Sam, back in the crippled rover, remains conscious long enough to watch the launch of the transport carrying the younger Sam to Earth. The rescue team is successfully fooled after finding both a newly awakened clone in the medical bay and the corpse of the older Sam inside the crashed rover.\n\nThe helium transport arrives at Earth, and over the film's credits, news reports describe how Sam's testimony on Lunar Industries' activities has stirred up an enormous controversy, and the company's unethical practices have plummeted the company's stock.\n\n\nThis is the first feature film directed by commercial director Duncan Jones, who co-wrote the script with Nathan Parker. The film was specifically written as a vehicle for actor Sam Rockwell. Rockwell almost turned the film down and Paddy Considine was an alternate choice. The film pays homage to the films of Jones' youth, such as \"Silent Running\", \"Alien\", and \"Outland\". In an interview with \"Wired.com\", speaking about those films, Jones stated it was his \"intent to write for a science fiction-literate audience\" and that he \"wanted to make a film which would be appreciated by people like myself who loved those films\".\n\nJones described his interest in the lunar setting:\nThe director described the lack of romance in the Moon as a location, citing images from the Japanese lunar orbiter SELENE: \"It's the desolation and emptiness of it...it looks like some strange ball of clay in blackness... Look at photos and you'll think that they're monochrome. In fact, they're not. There simply are no primary colours.\" Jones made reference to the photography book \"Full Moon\" by Michael Light in designing the look of the film.\n\n\"Moon\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s budget was $5 million. The director took steps to minimise production costs, such as keeping the cast small and filming in a studio. \"Moon\" was produced at Shepperton Studios, in London, where it was filmed in 33 days. Jones preferred using models to digital animation, working with Bill Pearson, the supervising model maker on \"Alien\", to help design the lunar rovers and helium-3 harvesters in the film. The Moon base was created as a full 360-degree set, measuring long and approximately wide. The film's robot, GERTY, was designed to be bound to an overhead rail within the mining base since its mechanical tether was critical to the story's plot. The visual effects were provided by Cinesite, which has sought cut-price deals with independent films. Since Jones had an effects background with TV advertisements, he drew on his experience to create special effects within a small budget.\n\nInternational sales for \"Moon\" are handled by the \"Independent\" sales company. Sony Pictures Worldwide Acquisitions Group acquired distribution rights to the film for English-speaking territories. Sony Pictures Worldwide Acquisitions Group was considering making \"Moon\" a direct-to-DVD release; however, after \"Moon\" premiered at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival in January 2009, Sony Pictures Classics decided to handle this film's theatrical release for Sony Pictures Worldwide Acquisitions Group.\n\nSony Pictures Classics distributed the film in the United States in cinemas, beginning with screenings in selected cinemas in New York and Los Angeles on 12 June. The film's British premiere was held on 20 June 2009 at the Cameo Cinema in Edinburgh as part of the 63rd Edinburgh International Film Festival. Jones was present at the screening along with other key crew members. The full UK release was on 17 July. The Australian release was on 8 October.\n\n\"Moon\" grossed £700,394 from its domestic release, $3,370,366 from its North American release and $9,760,104 worldwide, making the film a modest financial success.\n\n\"Moon\" was generally well-received by critics. Film review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 90% of critics gave the film a positive review based on 191 reviews, with an average score of 7.5/10. The site's consensus states: \"Boosted by Sam Rockwell's intense performance, \"Moon\" is a compelling work of science-fiction, and a promising debut from director Duncan Jones.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a rating out of 100 based on reviews from critics, the film has a score of 67 based on 29 reviews, considered to be \"generally favorable reviews\". Damon Wise of \"The Times\" praised Jones' \"thoughtful\" direction and Rockwell's \"poignant\" performance. Wise wrote of the film's approach to the science fiction genre: \"Though it uses impressive sci-fi trappings to tell its story—the fabulous models and moonscapes are recognisably retro yet surprisingly real—this is a film about what it means, and takes, to be human.\"\n\nDuane Byrge of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" applauded screenwriter Nathan Parker's \"sharp [and] individualistic\" dialogue and the way in which Parker combined science fiction and Big Brother themes. Byrge also believed that cinematographer Gary Shaw's work and composer Clint Mansell's music intensified the drama. Byrge wrote: \"Nonetheless, 'Moon' is darkened by its own excellencies: The white, claustrophobic look is apt and moody, but a lack of physical action enervates the story thrust.\" The critic felt mixed about the star's performance, describing him as \"adept at limning his character's dissolution\" but finding that he did not have \"the audacious, dominant edge\" for the major confrontation at the end of the film.\n\nRoger Ebert gave the film 3½ stars out of 4, saying:\n\"Empire\" magazine praised Rockwell's performance, including it in '10 Egregious Oscar Snubs—The worthy contenders that the Academy overlooked' feature and referred to his performance as \"one ... of the best performances of the year\". \"Rolling Stone\" magazine ranked the film at number 23 on their \"Top 40 Sci-Fi Movies of the 21st Century\", finding that \"Duncan Jones’ debut feature keeps you wondering whether its hero - played by an on-point Sam Rockwell - is losing a battle with what appears to be his “double” or if he, is, in fact, losing his mind...this sci-fi indie does a helluva lot with very, very little\". \"Digital Spy\" said it was an \"incredible low-budget science fiction movie\", opining that Jones' direction of the film \"brilliantly explores ideas of identity while mixing in some practical VFX spectacle to boot. This is perhaps one of the best sci-fi films of the 21st century\".\n\nA. O. Scott, chief film critic for \"The New York Times\" wrote that Jones directing \"demonstrates impressive technical command, infusing a sparse narrative and a small, enclosed space with a surprising density of moods and ideas\". Scott said that like most of science fiction, the film \"is a meditation on the conflict between the streamlining tendencies of technological progress and the stubborn persistence of feelings and desires that can’t be tamed by utilitarian imperatives\", while also asserting that \"the film’s ideas are interesting, but don’t feel entirely worked out..the smallness of this movie is decidedly a virtue, but also, in the end, something of a limitation\". \"Moon\" also received positive reviews at the Sundance Film Festival. \n\n\"Moon\" was screened as part of a lecture series at NASA's Space Center Houston, at the request of a professor there. “He'd been reading online that we'd done this film about helium-3 mining and that's something that people at NASA are working on”, says Jones. “We did a Q&A afterward. They asked me why the base looked so sturdy, like a bunker, and not like the kind of stuff they are designing that they are going to transport with them. I said 'Well, in the future I assume you won't want to continue carrying everything with you, you'll want to use the resources on the moon to build things' and a woman in the audience raised her hand and said, 'I'm actually working on something called mooncrete, which is concrete that mixes lunar regolith and ice water from the moon's polar caps.\n\nIn the 2013 October issue of the journal \"Trends in Cognitive Sciences\", academics ranked their top brain science movies of all time; their database being compiled by cognitive science researchers who are also movie buffs. The database, called the Cognitive Science Movie Index, ranks films for quality, relevance and accuracy in the field of cognitive science. On their top 10 lists of brain science movies of all time, \"Moon\" appears at number 5 on the quality list, number 9 on the accuracy list and number 3 on the relevance list.\n\nJones released a follow-up film, titled \"Mute\", in 2018, which serves as a spiritual successor to \"Moon\". \"Sam has agreed to do a little cameo in the next film\", said Jones, who ultimately hopes to complete a trilogy of films set in the same fictional universe. It was released on February 23, 2018, as a Netflix exclusive. In the film, on a TV broadcast of a court trial, Sam Bell and several of his clones are all seen in the courtroom, identifying themselves in an \"I'm Spartacus\" allusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "19880120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19880120", "title": "Naganeupseong", "text": "Naganeupseong\n\nNaganeupseong(樂安邑城, 낙안읍성) is a Korean fortress in Nagan-myeon, Suncheon, Jeollanamdo, South Korea.\n\nNaganeupseong is the only remaining Joseon dynasty castle in Jeollanamdo.\nIt finely has the old images of Joseon folk village and castle, with about 100 houses and government offices. Nowadays, there still are 85 households and 229 people living there.\nIt has the biggest feature that it was built on the plain fields and has the narrow stone walls around the castle.\n\nIt was firstly built in 1397 Taejo Joseon, by the general Kim Bin-gil after the defeat of Wokou to protect its area.\nIt was surrounded by a sand wall but changed to a stone wall during king Sejong, Joseon dynasty because of its difficulty to protect its area against the Japanese invaders Wokou.\n\n"}
{"id": "4207997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4207997", "title": "Nanguan music", "text": "Nanguan music\n\nNanguan (; also nanyin, nanyue, or nanqu) is a style of Chinese classical music originating in the southern Chinese province of Fujian, and is also now highly popular in Taiwan, particularly Lukang on west coast, as well as among Overseas Chinese in Southeast Asia. \n\nFujian is a mountainous coastal province of China. Its provincial capital is Fuzhou, while Quanzhou was a major port in the 7th century CE, the period between the Sui and Tang eras. Situated upon an important maritime trade route, it was a conduit for elements of distant cultures. The result was what is now known as nanguan music, which today preserves many archaic features. \n\nIt is a genre strongly associated with male-only community amateur musical associations (quguan or \"song-clubs\"), each formerly generally linked to a particular temple, and is viewed as a polite accomplishment and a worthy social service, distinct from the world of professional entertainers. It is typically slow, gentle, delicate and melodic, heterophonic and employing four basic scales.\n\nNanguan was inscribed in 2009 on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO.\nNanguan repertory falls into three overlapping styles, called \"chí\", \"phó·\" and \"khiok\" (\"zhi\", \"pu\" and \"qu\" in Mandarin), differentiated by the contexts in which they occur, by their function, the value accorded them by musicians and by their formal and timbral natures. \n\n\nA nanguan ensemble usually consists of five instruments. The \"pie\" (\"muban\" (木板) or wooden clapper) is usually played by the singer. The other four, known as the \"téng-sì-kóan\" or four higher instruments, are the four-stringed lute (\"gî-pê\", or \"pipa\" in Mandarin), a three-stringed, fretless, snakeskin-headed long-necked lute that is the ancestor of the Japanese \"shamisen\", called the \"sam-hiân\", (\"sanxian\" in Mandarin), the vertical flute, (\"siau\" (簫), also called \"tōng-siau\"), and a two-stringed \"hard-bowed\" instrument called the \"jī-hiân\", slightly differing from the Cantonese \"erxian\". Each of the four differs somewhat from the most usual modern form and so may be called the \"nanguan pipa\" etc. Each instrument has a fixed role. The gî-pê provides a steady rhythmic skeleton, supported by the sam-hiân. The siau, meanwhile, supplemented by the jī-hiân, puts \"meat on the bones\" with colourful counterpoints.\n\nThese instruments are essential to the genre, while the \"ē-sì-kóan\" or four lower instruments are not used in every piece. These are percussion instruments, the chime (\"hiangzua\"), a combined chime and wood block called the \"giaolo\", a pair of small bells (\"xiangjin\") and a four-bar xylophone, the \"xidei\". The transverse flute called the \"pin xiao\" (dizi in Mandarin) and the oboe-like \"aiya\" or \"xiao suona\" are sometimes added in outdoor or ceremonial performances. When all six combine with the basic four, the whole ensemble is called a \"cha̍p-im\" or \"ten sounds\".\n\nStarting in the 17th century, the Hoklo people who immigrated from Fujian to Taiwan took with them informal folk music as well as more ritualized instrumental and operatic forms taught in amateur clubs, such as beiguan and \"nanguan\". Large Hoklo diaspora can also be found in Malaysia, Guangdong, Hong Kong, Philippines, Singapore, Burma, Thailand and Indonesia, where they are usually referred to as \"Hokkien\". \n\nThere are two \"nanguan\" associations in Singapore and there were formerly several in the Philippines; \"Tiong-Ho Long-Kun-sia\" is still active. Gang-a-tsui and Han-Tang Yuefu have popularized the \"nanguan\" ensemble abroad. A Quanzhou nanguan music ensemble was founded in the early 1960s, and there is a Fuzhou folk music ensemble, founded in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "3015942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3015942", "title": "National Origins Formula", "text": "National Origins Formula\n\nThe National Origins Formula was an American system of immigration quotas, used between 1921 and 1965, which restricted immigration on the basis of existing proportions of the population. It aimed to reduce the overall number of unskilled immigrants (especially from Eastern Europe and Asia), to allow families to re-unite, and to prevent immigration from changing the ethnic distribution of the largely Protestant Northwestern European-descended United States population.\n\nThe 1921 Emergency Quota Act restricted immigration to 3% of foreign-born persons of each nationality that resided in the United States in 1910.\n\nThe Immigration Act of 1924, also called the National Origins Act, provided that for three years the formula would change from 3% to 2% and the basis for the calculation would be the census of 1890 instead of that of 1910. After June 30, 1927, total immigration from all countries will be limited to 150,000, with allocations by country based upon national origins of inhabitants according to the census of 1920. The quota system applied only to non-Asian immigrants. It aimed to reduce the overall number of unskilled immigrants, to allow families to re-unite, and to prevent immigration from changing the ethnic distribution of the population. The 1924 Act also included the Asian Exclusion Act, which limited immigration to persons eligible for naturalization. \nAs a result, East Asians and South Asians were effectively banned from immigrating. Africans were also subjected to severe restrictions. Immigration from North and South America was not restricted.\n\nThe Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 retained but relaxed the National Origins Formula (President Truman wanted to abolish it, but Congress overrode his veto). It modified the ratios to be based on the 1920 census and eliminated racial restrictions, but retained restrictions by national origin. President Harry Truman vetoed it because of its continued use of national quotas, but the Act was passed over his veto. The quotas were in addition to 600,000 refugees admitted from Europe after World War II.\n\nThe National Origins Formula was abolished by the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, which marked a significant change in American immigration policy. It replaced the system with two quotas for the Western and Eastern hemispheres.\n\n"}
{"id": "47123036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47123036", "title": "Person Dignity Theory", "text": "Person Dignity Theory\n\nThe Person Dignity Theory () was a Vietnamese political doctrine and ideology coined by Ngô Đình Nhu in 1954, based on Emmanuel Mounier's works. It was also the official ideology of the Can Lao Party, a former political party.\n\nThe Can Lao Party's leader Ngô Đình Nhu created this ideology to oppose the advance of the Vietnamese Communist Party. The Person Dignity Theory was conceived like a \"third way\" between capitalism and communism, both of which it refuted for their strictly materialist views, with the establishment of a social market economy. Both capitalism and communism assume that people are only production instruments, while the Person Dignity Theory promote a spiritual like physical person, with consequential change of the supply and demand based not on the singular but on the community.\n\nThe Personal Dignity is based on \"Three Theories\":\n\nFor the creation of a good community, it's necessary the individual's will. The ideal community, as the Person Dignity Theory, is based on family, society, nation, humanity and nature. The supernatural strengthen the community for obtained \"true, compassion, unity\".\nFor obtained the \"Three Theories\" are necessary a party (the Can Lao) for the ideology's promotion, a true social justice and the technological modernization.\n\nThe Person Dignity Theory had also various points of reference, like Juan Perón of Argentina, Carlos Castillo Armas of Guatemala, Sukarno of Indonesia, António de Oliveira Salazar of Portugal, Francisco Franco of Spain and Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia.\n\n"}
{"id": "22495438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22495438", "title": "Robert W. Thomson", "text": "Robert W. Thomson\n\nRobert William Thomson (24 March 1934, Cheam, London UK - 2018) was Calouste Gulbenkian Professor of Armenian Studies at Oxford University.\n\nWhen an Armenian Studies Professorship was established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at the Harvard University in 1969, Thomson was appointed to the chair which was subsequently named in honor of Armenian saint and scholar Mesrob Mashtots. Thomson held this position until 1992, when he accepted the Gulbenkian Chair in Armenian Studies at Oxford University in England. In 1984–1989 he was the Director of the Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection.\n\nThomson translated into English several Old Armenian, Syriac and Greek texts as well as having written two textbooks on the Armenian language.\n\nThomson died in 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20949019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20949019", "title": "Semantic role labeling", "text": "Semantic role labeling\n\nIn the field of artificial intelligence, Semantic role labeling, sometimes also called shallow semantic parsing, is a process in natural language processing that assigns labels to words or phrases in a sentence that indicate their semantic role in the sentence, such as that of an agent, goal, or result. It consists of the detection of the semantic arguments associated with the predicate or verb of a sentence and their classification into their specific roles. For example, given a sentence like \"Mary sold the book to John\", the task would be to recognize the verb \"to sell\" as representing the predicate, \"Mary\" as representing the seller (agent), \"the book\" as representing the goods (theme), and \"John\" as representing the recipient. This is an important step towards making sense of the meaning of a sentence. A semantic analysis of this sort is at a lower-level of abstraction than a syntax tree, i.e. it has more categories, thus groups fewer clauses in each category. For instance, \"the book belongs to me\" would need two labels such as \"possessed\" and \"possessor\" whereas \"the book was sold to John\" would need two other labels such as \"goal\" (or \"theme\") and \"receiver\" (or \"recipient\") even though these two clauses would be very similar as far as \"subject\" and \"object\" functions are concerned.\n\nThe FrameNet project produced the first major computational lexicon that systematically described many predicates and their corresponding roles. Daniel Gildea (University of California, Berkeley / International Computer Science Institute) and Daniel Jurafsky (currently teaching at Stanford University, but previously working at University of Colorado and UC Berkeley) developed the first automatic semantic role labeling system based on FrameNet. The PropBank corpus added manually created semantic role annotations to the Penn TreeBank corpus of Wall Street Journal texts. Many automatic semantic role labeling systems have used PropBank as a training dataset to learn how to annotate new sentences automatically.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28270", "title": "Shaggy dog story", "text": "Shaggy dog story\n\nIn its original sense, a shaggy dog story or yarn is an extremely long-winded anecdote characterized by extensive narration of typically irrelevant incidents and terminated by an anticlimax or a pointless punchline.\n\nShaggy dog stories play upon the audience's preconceptions of joke-telling. The audience listens to the story with certain expectations, which are either simply not met or met in some entirely unexpected manner. A lengthy shaggy dog story derives its humour from the fact that the joke-teller held the attention of the listeners for a long time (such jokes can take five minutes or more to tell) for no reason at all, as the end resolution is essentially meaningless. The nature of their delivery is reflected in the English idiom \"spin a yarn\", by way of analogy with the production of yarn.\n\nThe commonly believed archetype of the shaggy dog story is a story that concerns a shaggy dog. The story builds up, repeatedly emphasizing how shaggy the dog is. At the climax of the story, someone in the story reacts with, \"That dog's not so shaggy.\" The expectations of the audience that have been built up by the presentation of the story, that the story will end with a punchline, are thus disappointed. Ted Cohen gives the following example of this story:\n\nHowever, authorities disagree as to whether this particular story is the archetype after which the category is named. Eric Partridge, for example, provides a very different story, as do William and Mary Morris in \"The Morris Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins\".\n\nAccording to Partridge and the Morrises, the archetypical shaggy dog story involves an advertisement placed in the \"Times\" announcing a search for a shaggy dog. In the Partridge story, an aristocratic family living in Park Lane is searching for a lost dog, and an American answers the advertisement with a shaggy dog that he has found and personally brought across the Atlantic, only to be received by the butler at the end of the story who takes one look at the dog and shuts the door in his face, saying, \"But not so shaggy as \"that\", sir!\" In the Morris story, the advertiser is organizing a competition to find the shaggiest dog in the world, and after a lengthy exposition of the search for such a dog, a winner is presented to the aristocratic instigator of the competition, who says, \"I don't think he's so shaggy.\"\n\nA typical shaggy dog story occurs in Mark Twain's book about his travels west, \"Roughing It\". Twain's friends encourage him to go find a man called Jim Blaine when he is properly drunk, and ask him to tell \"the stirring story about his grandfather's old ram.\" Twain, encouraged by his friends who have already heard the story, finally finds Blaine, an old silver miner, who sets out to tell Twain and his friends the tale. Blaine starts out with the ram (\"There never was a bullier old ram than what he was\"), and goes on for four more mostly dull but occasionally hilarious unparagraphed pages.\n\nAlong the way, Blaine tells many stories, each of which connects back to the one before by some tenuous thread, and none of which has to do with the old ram. Among these stories are: a tale of boiled missionaries; of a lady who borrows a false eye, a peg leg, and the wig of a coffin-salesman's wife; and a final tale of a man who gets caught in machinery at a carpet factory and whose \"widder bought the piece of carpet that had his remains wove in ...\" As Blaine tells the story of the carpet man's funeral, he begins to fall asleep, and Twain, looking around, sees his friends \"suffocating with suppressed laughter.\" They now inform him that \"at a certain stage of intoxication, no human power could keep [Blaine] from setting out, with impressive unction, to tell about a wonderful adventure which he had once had with his grandfather's old ram — and the mention of the ram in the first sentence was as far as any man had heard him get, concerning it.\"\n\nIn the collection of stories by Isaac Asimov titled \"Buy Jupiter and Other Stories\", is a story titled \"Shah Guido G.\" In his background notes, Asimov identifies the tale as a shaggy dog story, and explains that the title is a play on \"shaggy dog\".\n\n\nComedians Buddy Hackett and Norm Macdonald are famous for telling shaggy dog stories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21687381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21687381", "title": "State Historical Society of Iowa", "text": "State Historical Society of Iowa\n\nThe State Historical Society of Iowa (SHSI), a division of the Iowa Department of Cultural Affairs, serves as the official historical repository for the State of Iowa and also provides grants, public education, and outreach about Iowa history and archaeology. The SHSI maintains a museum, library, archives, and research center in Des Moines and a research library in Iowa City, as well as several historic sites in Iowa. It was founded in 1857 in Iowa City, where it was first affiliated with the University of Iowa. As the organization grew in size and collections, it became a separate state agency headquartered near the Iowa Capitol in Des Moines.\n\nThe SHSI currently publishes the \"Annals of Iowa\". In the past it published the \"Iowa Heritage Illustrated\", \"Goldfinch\", the \"Iowa Journal of History and Politics\", and the \"Iowa Historical Record\". It also currently produces an e-newsletter, the \"Iowa Historian\".\n\nSubscriptions and back issues are available.\n\nThe SHSI is part of the Iowa Department of Cultural affairs, both organizations coordinate the State Historic Preservation Office of Iowa, Iowa's designated SHPO, which reviews state and federally mandated laws and regulations relating to historic and archaeological work.\n\nLocated in Des Moines, Iowa, the State Historical Museum of Iowa is the Society's main museum. Exhibits show Iowa’s growth and development and its citizens.\n\nSHSI Historic Sites Overview and Links\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38397329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38397329", "title": "Suicides (short story)", "text": "Suicides (short story)\n\n\"Suicides\" is a short story by French writer Guy de Maupassant. It was originally published on 29 August 1880 in the French newspaper \"Le Gaulois\". On 17 April 1883, it was published in \"Gil Blas\" under the pseudonym Maufrigneuse, and by other three periodicals, before being republished in the short story collection \"Les Sœurs Rondoli\" in 1884.\n\nThe narrator finds a letter from a man who killed himself officially «without reason». This man of fifty-seven describes his life: thirty years of boredom, always repeated gestures and loneliness. Suffering from stomach pain, he can not eat much «what is still the greatest happiness». That evening he starts a task constantly postponed, to store in his desk correspondence and memories of a lifetime. Moved to tears by all these old stories which come to mind, he looks horrified «the hideous and lonely old age and the coming infirmities». He shoots himself in the head.\nThe theme of this story is that suicide can be caused by minor causes like solitude and boredom.\n\n"}
{"id": "50328514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50328514", "title": "The Black Album (play)", "text": "The Black Album (play)\n\nThe Black Album is the second novel written by British author Hanif Kureishi. Published in 1995 by Faber and Faber, the novel was adapted for the stage in 2009 and explores Muslim fundamentalism, youth culture, sex, drugs, and alienation in a young British-Pakistani man’s world that is being pulled in different directions by a modern lifestyle of London and traditional Muslim culture.\n\nKureishi, a British-Pakistani novelist, playwright, screenwriter, and filmmaker, premiered the adaptation at the Royal National Theatre in July 2009 and was awarded the second Asia House Literature Award on the closing night of Asia House Festival of Asian Literature.\n\n\nAlthough only having been staged recently, the reception to \"The Black Album\" has been neutral when compared to the Kureishi's novel. Many felt that the stage adaptation left out many of the details that made the novel memorable and powerful, instead feeling that the adaptation lost many of the details that readers felt were so elegantly explained in the novel.\n\n\"But the stage version does scant justice to the book's panoramic portrait of late-1980s London with its pubs, clubs and ecstasy-filled raves. In a nutshell, one misses the heady exuberance of Kureishi's descriptive writing.\" -\"The Guardian\"\n\nThe reception to the timing of the adaptation of the novel was positive as it came in the post-9/11 era of the world view. Kureishi had thought, back in the Nineties, of turning his novel into a film but it never happened. But a decade and a half on, in the wake of 9/11, 7/7 and the \"war on terror\", the relevance of the story became even greater. In an interview with production team, it was asked: \"Was it easy ... transforming the tale from page to stage? \"The novel had a kaleidoscopic view of London,\" he says, \"moving quickly from episode to episode. The play maintains that episodic sense. Hanif has retained a lot of the language of the original. The novel is full of deft wit. The play is too. It moves between the real and the absurd. Hanif calls it 'hyper-real'.\" \n"}
{"id": "57934457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57934457", "title": "The Last Judgement (Biberach Master)", "text": "The Last Judgement (Biberach Master)\n\nThe Last Judgement or Scene of Intercession is part of a 1510-1420 carved limewood altarpiece produced at Biberach. It is attributed to the Biberach Master or his studio and is now in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon.\n\n"}
{"id": "415920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415920", "title": "The Sign of the Four", "text": "The Sign of the Four\n\nThe Sign of the Four (1890), also called The Sign of Four, is the second novel featuring Sherlock Holmes written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Doyle wrote four novels and 56 short stories featuring the fictional detective.\n\nThe story is set in 1888. \"The Sign of the Four\" has a complex plot involving service in India, the Indian Rebellion of 1857, a stolen treasure, and a secret pact among four convicts (\"the Four\" of the title) and two corrupt prison guards. It presents the detective's drug habit and humanizes him in a way that had not been done in the preceding novel, \"A Study in Scarlet\" (1887). It also introduces Doctor Watson's future wife, Mary Morstan.\n\nAccording to Mary, in December 1878, her father had telegraphed her upon his safe return from India and requested her to meet him at the Langham Hotel in London. When Mary arrived at the hotel, she was told her father had gone out the previous night and not returned. Despite all efforts, no trace has ever been found of him. Mary contacted her father's only friend who was in the same regiment and had since retired to England, one Major John Sholto, but he denied knowing her father had returned. The second puzzle is that she has received six pearls in the mail from an anonymous benefactor, one per year since 1882 after answering an anonymous newspaper query inquiring for her. With the last pearl she received a letter remarking that she has been wronged and asking for a meeting. Holmes takes the case and soon discovers that Major Sholto had died in 1882 and that within a short span of time Mary began to receive the pearls, implying a connection. The only clue Mary can give Holmes is a map of a fortress found in her father's desk with the names of Jonathan Small, Mahomet Singh, Abdullah Khan and Dost Akbar.\n\nHolmes, Watson, and Mary meet Thaddeus Sholto, the son of the late Major Sholto and the anonymous sender of the pearls. Thaddeus confirms the Major \"had\" seen Mary's father the night he died; they had arranged a meeting to divide a priceless treasure Sholto had brought home from India. While quarrelling over the treasure, Captain Morstan—long in weak health—suffered a heart attack. Not wanting to bring attention to the object of the quarrel—and also worried that circumstances would suggest that he had killed Morstan in an argument, particularly since Morstan's head struck a table as he fell—Sholto disposed of the body and hid the treasure. However, he himself suffered from poor health and an enlarged spleen (possibly due to malaria, as a quinine bottle stands by his bed). His own health became worse when he received a letter from India in early 1882. Dying, he called his two sons and confessed to Morstan's death and was about to divulge the location of the treasure when he suddenly cried, \"Keep him out!\" before falling back and dying. The puzzled sons glimpsed a face in the window, but the only trace was a single footstep in the dirt. On their father's body is a note reading \"The Sign of Four\". Both brothers quarrelled over whether a legacy should be left to Mary Morstan, and Thaddeus left his brother Bartholomew, taking a chaplet and sending its pearls to Mary. The reason he sent the letter is that Bartholomew has found the treasure and possibly Thaddeus and Mary might confront him for a division of it.\n\nBartholomew is found dead in his home from a poison dart and the treasure is missing. While the police wrongly take Thaddeus in as a suspect, Holmes deduces that there are two persons involved in the murder: a one-legged man, Jonathan Small, as well as another \"small\" accomplice. He traces them to a boat landing where Small has hired a steam launch named the \"Aurora\". With the help of dog Toby that he sends Watson to collect from Mr Sherman, the Baker Street Irregulars and his own disguise, Holmes traces the steam launch. In a police steam launch Holmes and Watson chase the \"Aurora\" and capture it, but in the process end up killing the \"small\" companion after he attempts to kill Holmes with a poisoned dart shot from a blow-pipe. Small tries to escape but is captured. However, the iron treasure box is empty; Small claims to have dumped the treasure over the side during the chase.\n\nSmall confesses that years before he was a soldier of the Third Buffs in India and lost his right leg in a swimming accident to a crocodile. After some time, when he was an overseer on a tea plantation, the Indian Rebellion of 1857 occurred and he was forced to flee for his life to the Agra fortress. While standing guard one night he was overpowered by two Sikh troopers who gave him a choice of being killed or being an accomplice to waylaying a disguised servant of a Rajah who sent the servant with a valuable fortune in pearls and jewels to the British for safekeeping. The robbery and murder took place and the crime was discovered, although the jewels were not. Small got penal servitude on the Andaman Islands, and after twenty years he overheard that John Sholto had lost money gambling. Small saw his chance and made a deal with Sholto and Arthur Morstan: Sholto would recover the treasure and in return send a boat to pick up Small and the Sikhs. Sholto double-crossed both Morstan and Small and stole the treasure for himself. Small vowed vengeance and escaped the Andaman Islands with an islander named Tonga. It was the news of his escape that shocked Sholto into his fatal illness. Small arrived too late to hear of the treasure's location but left the note which referred to the name of the pact between himself and his three Sikh accomplices. When Bartholomew found the treasure, Small planned to only steal it but claims a miscommunication led Tonga to kill Bartholomew as well.\n\nMary Morstan is left without the bulk of the Agra treasure, although she will apparently receive the rest of the chaplet. John Watson falls in love with Mary, and it is revealed at the end that he proposed to her and she has accepted.\n\nSir Arthur Conan Doyle described how he was commissioned to write the story over a dinner with Joseph M. Stoddart, managing editor of an American publication \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\", at the Langham Hotel in London on 30 August 1889. Stoddart wanted to produce an English version of \"Lippincott’s\" with a British editor and British contributors. The dinner was also attended by Oscar Wilde, who eventually contributed \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" to the July 1890 issue. Doyle discussed what he called this \"golden evening\" in his 1924 autobiography \"Memories and Adventures\".\n\nThe novel first appeared in the February 1890 edition of \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\" as \"The Sign of the Four; or The Problem of the Sholtos\" (five-word title), appearing in both London and Philadelphia. The British edition of the magazine originally sold for a shilling, and the American for 25 cents. Surviving copies are now worth several thousand dollars.\n\nOver the following few months in the same year, the novel was then republished in several regional British journals. These re-serialisations gave the title as \"The Sign of Four\". The novel was published in book form in October 1890 by Spencer Blackett, again using the title \"The Sign of Four\". This edition was illustrated by Charles H. M. Kerr. The title of both the British and American editions of this first book edition omitted the second \"the\" of the original title.\n\nDifferent editions over the years have varied between the two forms of the title, with most editions favouring the four-word form. The actual text in the novel nearly always uses \"the Sign of the Four\" (the five-word form) to describe the symbol in the story, although the four-word form is used twice by Jonathan Small in his narrative at the end of the story.\n\nAs with the first story, \"A Study in Scarlet\", produced two years previously, \"The Sign of the Four\" was not particularly successful to start with. It was the short stories, published from 1891 onwards in \"Strand Magazine\", that made household names of Sherlock Holmes and his creator.\n\nThere are at least fourteen film, TV and play adaptations insure this book:\n\nThe Sign of the Four was also adapted for radio by Bert Coules in 1989 as part of BBC Radio 4's complete audio Sherlock Holmes, with Clive Merrison as Holmes, Michael Williams as Watson, and featuring Brian Blessed as Jonathan Small.\n\n"}
{"id": "17270038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17270038", "title": "Vladimir Dybo", "text": "Vladimir Dybo\n\nVladimir Antonovich Dybo (; born 30 April 1931) is a Russian linguist whose areas of research include the Slavic languages, Indo-European, Nostratic, and Nilo-Saharan.\n\nDybo is known for his reconstruction of Balto-Slavic accentuation, the first ever attempted. He has subscribed to the Nostratic hypothesis and established the Illich-Svitych Nostratic Seminar in Moscow. Dybo is the head of the Department of Slavic Languages in the Faculty of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics at the Russian State University for the Humanities, as well as a full member of the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nHis daughter Anna V. Dybo (born 1959) has collaborated with Sergei Starostin on an etymological dictionary of the Altaic languages, which encompasses some 3,000 Proto-Altaic stems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1620938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1620938", "title": "What's Up, Tiger Lily?", "text": "What's Up, Tiger Lily?\n\nWhat's Up, Tiger Lily? is a 1966 American comedy film directed by Woody Allen in his feature-length directorial debut.\n\nAllen took a Japanese spy film, \"\", and overdubbed it with completely original dialogue that had nothing to do with the plot of the original film. By putting in new scenes and rearranging the order of existing scenes, he completely changed the tone of the film from a James Bond clone into a comedy about the search for the world's best egg salad recipe.\n\nDuring post-production, Allen's original one-hour television version was expanded without his permission to include additional scenes from \"International Secret Police: A Barrel of Gunpowder\", the third film in the International Secret Police series, and musical numbers by the band The Lovin' Spoonful. This experience helped convince Allen that he should secure creative control for all his future projects. The band released a soundtrack album. Louise Lasser, who was married to Allen at the time, served as one of the voice actors for the \"new\" dialogue soundtrack, as did Mickey Rose, Allen's writing partner on \"Take The Money and Run\" (1969) and \"Bananas\" (1971). In 2003, Image released the film on DVD, with both the theatrical and television soundtracks. The DVD also offers the 11 minutes of TV footage as a separate bonus. \n\nThe plot provides the setup for a string of sight gags, puns, jokes based on Asian stereotypes, and general farce. The central plot involves the misadventures of secret agent Phil Moskowitz, hired by the Grand Exalted High Majah of Raspur (\"a nonexistent but real-sounding country\") to find a secret egg salad recipe that was stolen from him.\n\nThe movie has an ending unrelated to the plot, in which China Lee, a \"Playboy\" Playmate and then-wife of Allen's comic idol Mort Sahl, who does not appear elsewhere in the film, does a striptease while Allen explains that he promised he would put her in the film somewhere.\n\n\nThe soundtrack album to \"What's Up Tiger Lily?\" was released in 1966. It contains music by The Lovin' Spoonful. The audio engineer at National Recording Studios was Fred Weinberg, who went on to produce and engineer many other films and albums. It was re-released on CD along with \"You're a Big Boy Now\", the Spoonful's soundtrack for the 1966 film by Francis Ford Coppola. It reached No. 126 on the Billboard Pop Albums charts.\n\n\nThe reviews were mixed upon the film's release. Expressing disappointment in the movie, \"The New York Times\" stated that \"the peppery English sound track wears thin as the action churns around in absolute chaos.\" \"Variety\" wrote, \"The production has one premise - deliberately mismatched dialog - which is sustained reasonably well through its brief running time.\"\n\nAggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports 83% approval of the film, with an average rating of 6.9/10.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21706158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21706158", "title": "Women Can Do It", "text": "Women Can Do It\n\nWomen Can Do It (WCDI) is a training programme for women originated in the Norwegian Labour Party Women.\n\nThe aim of Women Can Do It is to make more women participate in society. The program's ideal is that because women make up half the world's population, they should have half the power and as many formal positions and authority as men. This is not the fact at present. Women are systematically under-represented in decision-making positions around the world, less visible in the media, hold fewer parliamentary seats and occupy fewer leading posts in political parties than men.\n\nWomen Can Do It is a training course for women; it aims at building confidence, learning the rules of political and organisational work and giving courage to the participants to speak out and taking part in decision-making processes.\n\n\"\"The quality of the seminars:\" In the seminars gender equality issues are presented in a simple\nway, and the skills taught are down-to-earth and practical. An overwhelming percentage of\nrespondents in the survey as well as among the interviewees are very satisfied with the\nseminars. They report that the knowledge and skills gained in the seminars are useful in\neveryday life.\" \nArranging WCDI is one way of increasing women's participation. Encouraging women to participate in society, in NGOs, in political parties, speaking up at work or in the family, is important. Women's opinions are important and should be heard. Women often hold back from speaking their mind, worried that they will not be as eloquent as the men, will not be listened to, or they are afraid to be ridiculed or neglected at meetings.\n\"Every fourth Russian woman suffers from some kind of domestic violence and doesn’t get proper respect and confession in our society.\" \nWomen Can Do It is both training for specific organisational skills, but it is also an opportunity for women to meet and form networks. WCDI can be arranged independently of an organization for the general purpose of increasing women's participation in society, or it can be held within a party or organization for increasing the number of women within.\n\nThe programme has been conducted in more than 25 countries worldwide, and The Norwegian Labour Party arranges the training with the partnership of Norwegian People's Aid.\n\nThe Training contents the following topics: Democracy and women’s participation, Communication, Argumentation, speeches, debates, \nWorking with the media, Negotiations – resolution of conflicts, Networking, Advocacy and campaigning, Violence against women \nHow to arrange WCDI – Trainer skills\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41365088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41365088", "title": "Zemi Figures from Vere, Jamaica", "text": "Zemi Figures from Vere, Jamaica\n\nThe Zemi Figures from Vere, Jamaica (this area is situated in the modern parish of Clarendon) are an important collection of pre-Columbian wooden figures found in the Carpenters Mountains in Jamaica in the late 18th century. They were originally made by the Taino people and may have served as venerated objects that housed local spirits or deities. They now form part of the British Museum's collection.\n\nThe three figures were found by a surveyor in a cave near the settlement of Vere in the Carpenters Mountains in June 1792. They were exhibited for the first time at the Society of Antiquaries of London in 1799 by Isaac Alves Rebello. The figures' subsequent provenance after this remains obscure before their acquisition by the British Museum.\n\nAll three figures are carved from a tropical hardwood called guayacan (Guaiacum officinale L.). The surface of the sculptures were probably polished with pebbles to bring the resin to the surface and attain the black lustre. The largest figure (the head of which is illustrated here) represents a male spiritual being, with prominent genitalia and powerful limbs, demonstrating masculine strength and virility. The second figure, at 87 cm high slightly smaller than the male zemi, mixes human and animal characteristics. The head can be described as birdlike with a protruding beak and teeth made of inlaid shells, but the body is more human-like with male sexual organs. The third sculpture has an unusually wide face carved below a canopy, which was probably used for the ritual inhalation of a hallucinogenic substance called cahoba.\n\nAs the Taino's written record is in the form of petroglyphs (a type of Proto-writing) on which very little research has been done, the purpose and role of these figures is based on records kept by the Spanish during the early colonial period. It appears that the Taino actively sought contact with spiritual beings who were capable of performing many deeds on their behalf. The taking of hallucinogenic drugs seems to have been an important part of communicating with these deities. The ingredients of the substance called cahoba is thought to have been based on powdered tobacco but other additions including brine and lime have been proposed and hallucogins prepared from \"Anadenanthera peregrina\".\n\n\n"}
