{"id": "55353743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55353743", "title": "15th century in philosophy", "text": "15th century in philosophy\n\nThis is a list of philosophy-related events in the 15th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3258792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3258792", "title": "Abram Deborin", "text": "Abram Deborin\n\nAbram Moiseyevich Deborin (Joffe) (; , Upyna, Kovno Governorate – March 8, 1963) was a Soviet Marxist philosopher and academician of the Soviet Academy of Sciences (1929).\n\nEntering the revolutionary movement by the end of the 1890s, Deborin joined the Bolshevik faction of the Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party in 1903. By 1907, however, he switched to the Menshevik faction and became known as one of Georgi Plekhanov's disciples, both in politics and philosophy. In 1908, Deborin graduated from the philosophy department at Bern University (L. I. Akselrod had received her doctorate there in 1900). He soon began publishing major books and articles on philosophy from a Marxist perspective.\n\nSoon after the October Revolution of 1917, Deborin left the Mensheviks and began lecturing at the Sverdlov University, the Institute of Red Professors and the Institute of Philosophy. He soon assumed editorial duties at the journal, \"Under the Banner of Marxism\", which he headed from 1926-1931. Deborin joined the Communist Party in 1928. Following the 1917 October Revolution, Soviet philosophy found itself divided itself between two factions: the \"dialecticians,\" headed up by Deborin, and \"mechanists,\" whose leading figure was the philosopher Lyubov Akselrod (the then prominent Bolshevik leader Bukharin was seen as an ally of the \"mechanists,\" although he did not entirely agree with them).\n\nIn 1931, Joseph Stalin decided the issue of the debate between dialecticians and mechanists by publishing a decree which identified dialectical materialism as pertaining solely to Marxism-Leninism. He then codified it in \"Dialectical and Historical Materialism\" (1938) by enumerating the \"laws of dialectics\", which are the grounds of particular disciplines and in particular of the science of history, and which guarantees their conformity to the \"proletarian conception of the world\". Thus, \"diamat\" was imposed on most Communist parties affiliated to the Third International. Diamat became the official philosophy of the Soviet Union and remained as such until its dissolution. When Stalin decided in favor of dialectical materialism, Deborin made a show of support for Stalin's position. For some years afterwards, Deborin kept a low profile, and most of his writings were suppressed. However, he lived long enough to see all of his works republished in the Soviet Union during the \"thaw\" under Nikita Khrushchev.\n\n"}
{"id": "1029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029", "title": "Albert Schweitzer", "text": "Albert Schweitzer\n\nAlbert Schweitzer, OM (14 January 18754 September 1965) was an Alsatian theologian, organist, writer, humanitarian, philosopher, and physician. A Lutheran, Schweitzer challenged both the secular view of Jesus as depicted by the historical-critical method current at this time, as well as the traditional Christian view. His contributions to the interpretation of Pauline Christianity concern the role of Paul's mysticism of \"being in Christ\" as primary and the doctrine of Justification by Faith as secondary.\n\nHe received the 1952 Nobel Peace Prize for his philosophy of \"Reverence for Life\", becoming the eighth Frenchman to be awarded that prize. His philosophy was expressed in many ways, but most famously in founding and sustaining the Albert Schweitzer Hospital in Lambaréné, in the part of French Equatorial Africa which is now Gabon. As a music scholar and organist, he studied the music of German composer Johann Sebastian Bach and influenced the Organ Reform Movement (\"Orgelbewegung\").\n\nSchweitzer was born in the province of Alsace, which had been a French province since 1639 and became Prussian after France lost it to Prussia in 1871. It became French again in 1919, after Germany's defeat during the First World War. Schweitzer considered himself French, and wrote mostly in German. His mother-tongue was Alsatian, a Germanic dialect, although he was fluent in both French and German too.\n\nSchweitzer was born in Kaysersberg, Haute Alsace, the son of Louis Schweitzer and Adèle Schillinger. He spent his childhood in the Alsatian village of Gunsbach, where his father, the local Lutheran-Evangelical pastor of the EPCAAL, taught him how to play music. The tiny village became home to the Association Internationale Albert Schweitzer (AIAS). The medieval parish church of Gunsbach was shared by the Protestant and Catholic congregations, which held their prayers in different areas at different times on Sundays. This compromise arose after the Protestant Reformation and the Thirty Years' War. Schweitzer, the pastor's son, grew up in this exceptional environment of religious tolerance, and developed the belief that true Christianity should always work towards a unity of faith and purpose.\n\nSchweitzer's first language was the Alsatian dialect of German language. At the Mulhouse gymnasium he received his \"Abitur\" (the certificate at the end of secondary education) in 1893. He studied organ in Mulhouse from 1885 to 1893 with Eugène Munch, organist at the Protestant cathedral, who inspired Schweitzer with his profound enthusiasm for the music of German composer Richard Wagner. In 1893 he played for the French organist Charles-Marie Widor (at Saint-Sulpice, Paris), for whom Johann Sebastian Bach's organ music contained a mystic sense of the eternal. Widor, deeply impressed, agreed to teach Schweitzer without fee, and a great and influential friendship thus began.\n\nFrom 1893 Schweitzer studied Protestant theology at the Kaiser Wilhelm University in Strasbourg. There he also received instruction in piano and counterpoint from professor Gustav Jacobsthal, and associated closely with Ernest Munch, the brother of his former teacher, organist of St William church, who was also a passionate admirer of J.S. Bach's music. Schweitzer served his one-year compulsory military service in 1894. Schweitzer saw many operas of Richard Wagner in Strasbourg (under Otto Lohse) and in 1896 he managed to afford a visit to the Bayreuth Festival to see Wagner's \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" and \"Parsifal\", which deeply impressed him. In 1898 he went back to Paris to write a PhD dissertation on \"The Religious Philosophy of Kant\" at the Sorbonne, and to study in earnest with Widor. Here he often met with the elderly Aristide Cavaillé-Coll. He also studied piano at that time with Marie Jaëll. In 1899, Schweitzer spent the summer semester at the University of Berlin and eventually obtained his theology degree in University of Strasbourg. He published his PhD thesis at the University of Tübingen in 1899.\n\nIn 1905, Schweitzer began his study of medicine at the University of Strasbourg, culminating in the degree of M.D. in 1913.\n\nSchweitzer rapidly gained prominence as a musical scholar and organist, dedicated also to the rescue, restoration and study of historic pipe organs. With theological insight, he interpreted the use of pictorial and symbolical representation in J. S. Bach's religious music. In 1899 he astonished Widor by explaining figures and motifs in Bach's Chorale Preludes as painter-like tonal and rhythmic imagery illustrating themes from the words of the hymns on which they were based. They were works of devotional contemplation in which the musical design corresponded to literary ideas, conceived visually. Widor had not grown up with knowledge of the old Lutheran hymns.\n\nThe exposition of these ideas, encouraged by Widor and Munch, became Schweitzer's last task, and appeared in the masterly study \"J. S. Bach: Le Musicien-Poète\", written in French and published in 1905. There was great demand for a German edition, but, instead of translating it, he decided to rewrite it. The result was two volumes (\"J. S. Bach\"), which were published in 1908 and translated into English by Ernest Newman in 1911. Ernst Cassirer, a contemporaneous German philosopher, called it \"one of the best interpretations\" of Bach. During its preparation Schweitzer became a friend of Cosima Wagner, then resident in Strasbourg, with whom he had many theological and musical conversations, exploring his view of Bach's descriptive music, and playing the major Chorale Preludes for her at the Temple Neuf. Schweitzer's interpretative approach greatly influenced the modern understanding of Bach's music. He became a welcome guest at the Wagners' home, Wahnfried. He also corresponded with composer Clara Faisst, who became a good friend.\n\nHis pamphlet \"The Art of Organ Building and Organ Playing in Germany and France\" (1906, republished with an appendix on the state of the organ-building industry in 1927) effectively launched the 20th-century \"Orgelbewegung\", which turned away from romantic extremes and rediscovered baroque principles—although this sweeping reform movement in organ building eventually went further than Schweitzer had intended. In 1909 he addressed the \"Third Congress of the International Society of Music\" at Vienna on the subject. Having circulated a questionnaire among players and organ-builders in several European countries, he produced a very considered report. This provided the basis for the \"International Regulations for Organ Building\". He envisaged instruments in which the French late-romantic full-organ sound should work integrally with the English and German romantic reed pipes, and with the classical Alsace Silbermann organ resources and baroque flue pipes, all in registers regulated (by stops) to access distinct voices in fugue or counterpoint capable of combination without loss of distinctness: different voices singing the same music together.\n\nSchweitzer also studied piano under Isidor Philipp, head of the piano department at the Paris Conservatory.\n\nIn 1905 Widor and Schweitzer were among the six musicians who founded the Paris Bach Society, a choir dedicated to performing J.S. Bach's music, for whose concerts Schweitzer took the organ part regularly until 1913. He was also appointed organist for the Bach Concerts of the Orféo Català at Barcelona, Spain, and often travelled there for that purpose. He and Widor collaborated on a new edition of Bach's organ works, with detailed analysis of each work in three languages (English, French, German). Schweitzer, who insisted that the score should show Bach's notation with no additional markings, wrote the commentaries for the Preludes and Fugues, and Widor those for the Sonatas and Concertos: six volumes were published in 1912–14. Three more, to contain the Chorale Preludes with Schweitzer's analyses, were to be worked on in Africa, but these were never completed, perhaps because for him they were inseparable from his evolving theological thought.\n\nOn departure for Lambaréné in 1913 he was presented with a pedal piano, a piano with pedal attachments to operate like an organ pedal-keyboard. Built especially for the tropics, it was delivered by river in a huge dug-out canoe to Lambaréné, packed in a zinc-lined case. At first he regarded his new life as a renunciation of his art, and fell out of practice: but after some time he resolved to study and learn by heart the works of Bach, Mendelssohn, Widor, César Franck, and Max Reger systematically. It became his custom to play during the lunch hour and on Sunday afternoons. Schweitzer's pedal piano was still in use at Lambaréné in 1946. According to a visitor, Dr. Gaine Cannon, of Balsam Grove, N.C., the old, dilapidated piano-organ was still being played by Dr. Schweitzer in 1962, and stories told that \"his fingers were still lively\" on the old instrument at 88 years of age.\n\nSir Donald Tovey dedicated his conjectural completion of Bach's \"The Art of Fugue\" to Schweitzer.\n\nSchweitzer's recordings of organ-music, and his innovative recording technique, are described below.\n\nOne of his notable pupils was conductor and composer Hans Münch.\n\nIn 1899 Schweitzer became a deacon at the church of Saint Nicholas in Strasbourg. In 1900, with the completion of his licentiate in theology, he was ordained as curate, and that year he witnessed the Oberammergau Passion Play. In the following year he became provisional Principal of the Theological College of Saint Thomas, from which he had just graduated, and in 1903 his appointment was made permanent.\n\nIn 1906 he published \"Geschichte der Leben-Jesu-Forschung\" (\"History of Life-of-Jesus research\"). This book, which established his reputation, was first published in English in 1910 as \"The Quest of the Historical Jesus\". Under this title the book became famous in the English-speaking world. A second German edition was published in 1913, containing theologically significant revisions and expansions: but this revised edition did not appear in English until 2001. In 1931 he published \"Mystik des Apostels Paulus\" (\"The Mysticism of Paul the Apostle\"); a second edition was published in 1953.\n\nIn \"The Quest\", Schweitzer reviewed all former work on the \"historical Jesus\" back to the late 18th century. He showed that the image of Jesus had changed with the times and outlooks of the various authors, and gave his own synopsis and interpretation of the previous century's findings. He maintained that the life of Jesus must be interpreted in the light of Jesus' own convictions, which reflected late Jewish eschatology. Schweitzer writes:\n\nThe concept that Christianity started as a Jewish apocalyptic movement is evidenced by the teachings of the historical Jesus concerning the end of days. Not only did he preach he would rise from the grave, but that he would also ascend to heaven and one day return to judge and rule over the world, saying that no one, including himself, knew the exact time of his return, but it would be before the end of his generation. Schweitzer verified the many New Testament references clearly explaining that 1st-century Christians believed in the imminent fulfillment of the promise of the World's ending within the lifetime of Jesus's original followers. He noted that in the gospel of Mark, Jesus speaks of a \"tribulation\", with his \"coming in the clouds with great power and glory\" (St Mark), and states when it will happen: \"This generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled\" (St Matthew, 24:34) (or, \"have taken place\" (Luke 21:32))\n\nIn \"The Quest of the Historical Jesus\", Schweitzer observes the Bible contradicting the possibility of important events that never took place and never can take place as they are described; Jesus specifically states that we are to \"not seal up the words of the prophecy\" and promises that some of his listeners as well as the high priest at his trial would be alive to see him return to the Earth. \"Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and heed the things which are written in it; for the time is near\" (Revelation 1:3). Saint Paul spoke of the \"last times\": \"Brethren, the time is short: it remaineth, that both they that have wives be as though they had none\" (1 Corinthians 7:29); \"God hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son\" (Hebrews 1:2); \"There be some standing here which shall not taste of death till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom\" (Matthew 16:28) (or, \"until they see that the kingdom of God has come with power\" (Mark 9:1); or, \"till they see the kingdom of God\" (Luke 9:27).)\n\nSchweitzer continues writing in \"The Quest of the Historical Jesus\" that it is totally unreasonable to think that \"coming quickly\", \"near\", and \"soon\" could mean hundreds, much less thousands, of years in the future. \"Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and heed the things which are written in it; for the time is near.\" (Revelation 1:3) \"And he said to me, 'These words are faithful and true'; and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent His angel to show to His bond-servants the things which must soon take place.\" \"And behold, I am coming quickly. Blessed is he who heeds the words of the prophecy of this book.\" And he said to me, \"Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near\" (Revelation 22:6, 7, 10, 12). \"All these things shall come upon this generation\" (Matthew 23:36). Schweitzer concludes that 1st-century theology, originating in the lifetimes of those who first followed Jesus, is totally incompatible with modern Christian belief.\n\nIn \"The Quest of the Historical Jesus\", Schweitzer notes the passage \"Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and heed the things which are written in it; for the time is near.\" (Revelation 1:3) Similarly in St Peter: \"Christ .. Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you\" (1 Peter 1:20), and \"But the end of all things is at hand\" (1 Peter 4:7). \"Surely I come quickly\" (Revelation 22:20). Schweitzer felt that St. Paul clearly believed in the immediacy of the Second Coming of Jesus, in stark contrast to modern organized Christianity.\n\nIn \"The Mysticism of Paul the Apostle\", Schweitzer first distinguishes between two categories of mysticism: primitive and developed. Primitive mysticism \"has not yet risen to a conception of the universal, and is still confined to naive views of earthly and super-earthly, temporal and eternal.\" Additionally, he argues that this view of a \"union with the divinity, brought about by efficacious ceremonies, is found even in quite primitive religions.\"\n\nOn the other hand, a more developed form of mysticism can be found in the Greek mystery-cults that were popular in first-century A.D. society. These included the cults of Attis, Osiris, and Mithras. A developed form of mysticism is attained when the \"conception of the universal is reached and a man reflects upon his relation to the totality of being and to Being in itself.\" Schweitzer claims that this form of mysticism is more intellectual and can be found \"among the Brahmans and in the Buddha, in Platonism, in Stoicism, in Spinoza, Schopenhauer, and Hegel.\"\n\nNext, Schweitzer poses the question: \"Of what precise kind then is the mysticism of Paul?\" He locates Paul between the two extremes of primitive mysticism and developed mysticism. Paul stands high above primitive mysticism, due to his intellectual writings, but never speaks of being one with God or being in God. Instead, he conceives of sonship to God as \"mediated and effected by means of the mystical union with Christ.\" He summarizes Pauline mysticism as \"being in Christ\" rather than \"being in God.\"\n\nPaul’s imminent eschatology (from his background in Jewish eschatology) causes him to believe that the kingdom of God has not yet come and that Christians are now living in the time of Christ. Christ-mysticism holds the field until God-mysticism becomes possible, which is in the near future. Therefore, Schweitzer argues that Paul is the only theologian who does not claim that Christians can have an experience of \"being-in-God.\" Rather, Paul uses the phrase \"being-in-Christ\" to illustrate how Jesus is a mediator between the Christian community and God. Additionally, Schweitzer explains how the experience of \"being-in-Christ\" is not a \"static partaking in the spiritual being of Christ, but as the real co-experiencing of His dying and rising again.\" The \"realistic\" partaking in the mystery of Jesus is only possible within the solidarity of the Christian community.\n\nOne of Schweitzer's major arguments in \"The Mysticism of Paul the Apostle\" is that Paul's mysticism, marked by his phrase \"being in Christ\", gives the clue to the whole of Pauline theology. Rather than reading justification by faith as the main topic of Pauline thought, which has been the most popular argument set forward by Martin Luther, Schweitzer argues that Paul's emphasis was on the mystical union with God by \"being in Christ.\" Jaroslav Pelikan, in his Forward to \"The Mysticism of Paul the Apostle,\" points out that:\n\nSchweitzer contrasts Paul’s \"realistic\" dying and rising with Christ to the \"symbolism\" of Hellenism. Although Paul is widely influenced by Hellenistic thought, he is not controlled by it. Schweitzer explains that Paul focused on the idea of fellowship with the divine being through the \"realistic\" dying and rising with Christ rather than the \"symbolic\" Hellenistic act of becoming like Christ through deification. After baptism, the Christian is continually renewed throughout their lifetime due to participation in the dying and rising with Christ (most notably through the Sacraments). On the other hand, the Hellenist \"lives on the store of experience which he acquired in the initiation\" and is not continually affected by a shared communal experience.\n\nAnother major difference between Paul's \"realism\" and Hellenistic \"symbolism\" is the exclusive nature of the former and the inclusive nature of the latter. Schweitzer unabashedly emphasizes the fact that \"Paul’s thought follows predestinarian lines.\" He explains, \"only the man who is elected thereto can enter into relation with God.\" Although every human being is invited to become a Christian, only those who have undergone the initiation into the Christian community through baptism can share in the \"realistic\" dying and rising with Christ.\n\nAt the age of 30, in 1905, Schweitzer answered the call of The Society of the Evangelist Missions of Paris, which was looking for a medical doctor. However, the committee of this missionary society was not ready to accept his offer, considering his Lutheran theology to be \"incorrect\". He could easily have obtained a place in a German evangelical mission, but wished to follow the original call despite the doctrinal difficulties. Amid a hail of protests from his friends, family and colleagues, he resigned his post and re-entered the university as a student in a three-year course towards the degree of Doctorate in Medicine, a subject in which he had little knowledge or previous aptitude. He planned to spread the Gospel by the example of his Christian labour of healing, rather than through the verbal process of preaching, and believed that this service should be acceptable within any branch of Christian teaching.\n\nEven in his study of medicine, and through his clinical course, Schweitzer pursued the ideal of the philosopher-scientist. By extreme application and hard work, he completed his studies successfully at the end of 1911. His medical degree dissertation was another work on the historical Jesus, \"The Psychiatric Study of Jesus\". He defended Jesus′ mental health in it. In June 1912, he married Helene Bresslau, municipal inspector for orphans and daughter of the Jewish pan-Germanist historian Harry Bresslau.\n\nIn 1912, now armed with a medical degree, Schweitzer made a definite proposal to go as a medical doctor to work at his own expense in the Paris Missionary Society's mission at Lambaréné on the Ogooué river, in what is now Gabon, in Africa (then a French colony). He refused to attend a committee to inquire into his doctrine, but met each committee member personally and was at last accepted. Through concerts and other fund-raising, he was ready to equip a small hospital. In spring 1913, he and his wife set off to establish a hospital (Albert Schweitzer Hospital) near an existing mission post. The site was nearly 200 miles (14 days by raft) upstream from the mouth of the Ogooué at Port Gentil (Cape Lopez) (and so accessible to external communications), but downstream of most tributaries, so that internal communications within Gabon converged towards Lambaréné.\n\nIn the first nine months, he and his wife had about 2,000 patients to examine, some travelling many days and hundreds of kilometers to reach him. In addition to injuries, he was often treating severe sandflea and crawcraw sores, \"framboesia\" (yaws), tropical eating sores, heart disease, tropical dysentery, tropical malaria, sleeping sickness, leprosy, fevers, strangulated hernias, necrosis, abdominal tumours and chronic constipation and nicotine poisoning, while also attempting to deal with deliberate poisonings, fetishism and fear of cannibalism among the Mbahouin.\n\nSchweitzer's wife, Helene Schweitzer, was an anaesthetist for surgical operations. After briefly occupying a shed formerly used as a chicken hut, in autumn 1913 they built their first hospital of corrugated iron, with two 13-foot rooms (consulting room and operating theatre) and with a dispensary and sterilising room in spaces below the broad eaves. The waiting room and dormitory (42 by 20 feet) were built, like native huts, of unhewn logs along a 30-yard path leading from the hospital to the landing-place. The Schweitzers had their own bungalow and employed as their assistant Joseph, a French-speaking Galoa (Mpongwe) who first came as a patient.\n\nAfter World War I broke out in July 1914, Schweitzer and his wife, German citizens in a French colony when the countries were at war, were put under supervision by the French military at Lambaréné, where Schweitzer continued his work. In 1917, exhausted by over four years' work and by tropical anaemia, they were taken to Bordeaux and interned first in Garaison and then from March 1918 in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence. In July 1918, after being transferred to his home in Alsace, he was a free man again. At this time Schweitzer, born a German citizen, had his parents' former (pre-1871) French citizenship reinstated and became a French citizen. Then, working as medical assistant and assistant-pastor in Strasbourg, he advanced his project on the philosophy of civilization, which had occupied his mind since 1900. By 1920, his health recovering, he was giving organ recitals and doing other fund-raising work to repay borrowings and raise funds for returning to Gabon. In 1922, he delivered the Dale Memorial Lectures in Oxford University, and from these in the following year appeared Volumes I and II of his great work, \"The Decay and Restoration of Civilization\" and \"Civilization and Ethics\". The two remaining volumes, on \"The World-View of Reverence for Life \" and a fourth on the Civilized State, were never completed.\n\nIn 1924 he returned without his wife, but with an Oxford undergraduate, Noel Gillespie, as assistant. Everything was heavily decayed, and building and doctoring progressed together for months. He now had salvarsan for treating syphilitic ulcers and framboesia. Additional medical staff, nurse (Miss) Kottmann and Dr. Victor Nessmann, joined him in 1924, and Dr. Mark Lauterberg in 1925; the growing hospital was manned by native orderlies. Later Dr. Trensz replaced Nessmann, and Martha Lauterberg and Hans Muggenstorm joined them. Joseph also returned. In 1925-6, new hospital buildings were constructed, and also a ward for white patients, so that the site became like a village. The onset of famine and a dysentery epidemic created fresh problems. Much of the building work was carried out with the help of local people and patients. Drug advances for sleeping sickness included Germanin and tryparsamide. Trensz conducted experiments showing that the non-amoebic strain of dysentery was caused by a paracholera vibrion (facultative anaerobic bacteria). With the new hospital built and the medical team established, Schweitzer returned to Europe in 1927, this time leaving a functioning hospital at work.\n\nHe was there again from 1929 to 1932. Gradually his opinions and concepts became acknowledged, not only in Europe, but worldwide. There was a further period of work in 1935. In January 1937, he returned again to Lambaréné and continued working there throughout World War II.\n\nSchweitzer considered his work as a medical missionary in Africa to be his response to Jesus' call to become \"fishers of men\" but also as a small recompense for the historic guilt of European colonizers:\n\nSchweitzer was one of colonialism's harshest critics. In a sermon that he preached on 6 January 1905, before he had told anyone of his plans to dedicate the rest of his life to work as a doctor in Africa, he said:\n\nSchweitzer was nonetheless still sometimes accused of being paternalistic, colonialist, and racist in his attitude towards Africans, and in some ways his views did differ from that of many liberals and other critics of colonialism. For instance, he thought that Gabonese independence came too early, without adequate education or accommodation to local circumstances. Edgar Berman quotes Schweitzer as having said in 1960, \"No society can go from the primeval directly to an industrial state without losing the leavening that time and an agricultural period allow.\" Schweitzer believed dignity and respect must be extended to blacks, while also sometimes characterizing them as children. He summarized his views on European-African relations by saying \"With regard to the negroes, then, I have coined the formula: 'I am your brother, it is true, but your elder brother.'\" Chinua Achebe has criticized him for this characterization, though Achebe acknowledges that Schweitzer's use of the word \"brother\" at all was, for a European of the early 20th century, an unusual expression of human solidarity between Europeans and Africans. Schweitzer eventually emended and complicated this notion with his later statement that \"The time for speaking of older and younger brothers has passed\". Later in life he became more convinced that \"modern civilization\" was actually inferior to or the same as previous cultures in terms of morality.\n\nAmerican journalist John Gunther visited Lambaréné in the 1950s and reported Schweitzer's patronizing attitude towards Africans. He also noted the lack of Africans trained to be skilled workers. By comparison, his contemporary Sir Albert Cook in Uganda had been training nurses and midwives since the 1910s and had published a manual of midwifery in the local language of Luganda. After three decades in Africa, Schweitzer still depended on Europe for nurses.\n\nThe journalist James Cameron visited Lambaréné in 1953 (when Schweitzer was 78) and found significant flaws in the practices and attitudes of Schweitzer and his staff. The hospital suffered from squalor and was without modern amenities, and Schweitzer had little contact with the local people. Cameron did not make public what he had seen at the time: according to a BBC dramatisation, he made the unusual journalistic decision to withhold the story, and resisted the expressed wish of his employers to publish an exposé.\n\nThe poor conditions of the hospital in Lambaréné were also famously criticized by Nigerian professor and novelist Chinua Achebe in his essay on Joseph Conrad's novel \"Heart of Darkness\": \"In a comment which has often been quoted Schweitzer says: 'The African is indeed my brother but my junior brother.' And so he proceeded to build a hospital appropriate to the needs of junior brothers with standards of hygiene reminiscent of medical practice in the days before the germ theory of disease came into being.\"\n\nThe keynote of Schweitzer's personal philosophy (which he considered to be his greatest contribution to mankind) was the idea of \"Reverence for Life\" (\"Ehrfurcht vor dem Leben\"). He thought that Western civilization was decaying because it had abandoned affirmation of life as its ethical foundation.\n\nIn the Preface to \"Civilization and Ethics\" (1923) he argued that Western philosophy from Descartes to Kant had set out to explain the objective world expecting that humanity would be found to have a special meaning within it. But no such meaning was found, and the rational, life-affirming optimism of the Age of Enlightenment began to evaporate. A rift opened between this world-view, as material knowledge, and the life-view, understood as Will, expressed in the pessimist philosophies from Schopenhauer onward. Scientific materialism (advanced by Herbert Spencer and Charles Darwin) portrayed an objective world process devoid of ethics, entirely an expression of the will-to-live.\n\nSchweitzer wrote, \"True philosophy must start from the most immediate and comprehensive fact of consciousness, and this may be formulated as follows: 'I am life which wills to live, and I exist in the midst of life which wills to live.'\" In nature one form of life must always prey upon another. However, human consciousness holds an awareness of, and sympathy for, the will of other beings to live. An ethical human strives to escape from this contradiction so far as possible.\n\nThough we cannot perfect the endeavour we should strive for it: the will-to-live constantly renews itself, for it is both an evolutionary necessity and a spiritual phenomenon. Life and love are rooted in this same principle, in a personal spiritual relationship to the universe. Ethics themselves proceed from the need to respect the wish of other beings to exist as one does towards oneself. Even so, Schweitzer found many instances in world religions and philosophies in which the principle was denied, not least in the European Middle Ages, and in the Indian Brahminic philosophy.\n\nFor Schweitzer, mankind had to accept that objective reality is ethically neutral. It could then affirm a new Enlightenment through spiritual rationalism, by giving priority to volition or ethical will as the primary meaning of life. Mankind had to choose to create the moral structures of civilization: the world-view must derive from the life-view, not vice versa. Respect for life, overcoming coarser impulses and hollow doctrines, leads the individual to live in the service of other people and of every living creature. In contemplation of the will-to-life, respect for the life of others becomes the highest principle and the defining purpose of humanity.\n\nSuch was the theory which Schweitzer sought to put into practice in his own life. According to some authors, Schweitzer's thought, and specifically his development of reverence for life, was influenced by Indian religious thought and in particular the Jain principle of ahimsa, or non-violence. Albert Schweitzer noted the contribution of Indian influence in his book \"Indian Thought and Its Development\":\n\nAfter the birth of their daughter (Rhena Schweitzer Miller), Albert's wife, Helene Schweitzer was no longer able to live in Lambaréné due to her health. In 1923 the family moved to Königsfeld im Schwarzwald, Baden-Württemberg, where he was building a house for the family. This house is now maintained as a Schweitzer museum.\n\nFrom 1939–48 he stayed in Lambaréné, unable to go back to Europe because of the war. Three years after the end of World War II, in 1948, he returned for the first time to Europe and kept traveling back and forth (and once to the US) as long as he was able. During his return visits to his home village of Gunsbach, Schweitzer continued to make use of the family house, which after his death became an archive and museum to his life and work. His life was portrayed in the 1952 movie \"Il est minuit, Docteur Schweitzer\", starring Pierre Fresnay as Albert Schweitzer and Jeanne Moreau as his nurse Marie. Schweitzer inspired actor Hugh O'Brian when O'Brian visited in Africa. O'Brian returned to the United States and founded the Hugh O'Brian Youth Leadership Foundation (HOBY).\n\nSchweitzer was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize of 1952, accepting the prize with the speech, \"The Problem of Peace\". From 1952 until his death he worked against nuclear tests and nuclear weapons with Albert Einstein, Otto Hahn and Bertrand Russell. In 1957 and 1958 he broadcast four speeches over Radio Oslo which were published in \"Peace or Atomic War\". In 1957, Schweitzer was one of the founders of The Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy. On 23 April 1957, Schweitzer made his \"Declaration of Conscience\" speech; it was broadcast to the world over Radio Oslo, pleading for the abolition of nuclear weapons. His speech ended, \"The end of further experiments with atom bombs would be like the early sunrays of hope which suffering humanity is longing for.\"\n\nWeeks prior to his death, an American film crew was allowed to visit Schweitzer and Drs. Muntz and Friedman, both Holocaust survivors, to record his work and daily life at the hospital. The film \"The Legacy of Albert Schweitzer\", narrated by Henry Fonda, was produced by Warner Brothers and aired once. It resides in their vault today in deteriorating condition. Although several attempts have been made to restore and re-air the film, all access has been denied.\n\nIn 1955 he was made an honorary member of the Order of Merit (OM) by Queen Elizabeth II. He was also a chevalier of the Military and Hospitaller Order of Saint Lazarus of Jerusalem.\n\nSchweitzer died on 4 September 1965 at his beloved hospital in Lambaréné, now in independent Gabon. His grave, on the banks of the Ogooué River, is marked by a cross he made himself.\n\nHis cousin Anne-Marie Schweitzer Sartre was the mother of Jean-Paul Sartre. Her father, Charles Schweitzer, was the older brother of Albert Schweitzer's father, Louis Théophile.\n\nSchweitzer was a vegetarian.However, in an account written by Dr. Edgar Berman, it is suggested that Schweitzer consumed fried liver at a Sunday dinner in Lambaréné.\n\nThe Albert Schweitzer Fellowship was founded in 1940 by Schweitzer to unite US supporters in filling the gap in support for his Hospital when his European supply lines were cut off by war, and continues to support the Lambaréné Hospital today. Schweitzer, however, considered his ethic of Reverence for Life, not his Hospital, his most important legacy, saying that his Lambaréné Hospital was just \"my own improvisation on the theme of Reverence for Life. Everyone can have their own Lambaréné.\" Today ASF helps large numbers of young Americans in health-related professional fields find or create \"their own Lambaréné\" in the US or internationally. ASF selects and supports nearly 250 new US and Africa Schweitzer Fellows each year from over 100 of the leading US schools of medicine, nursing, public health, and every other field with some relation to health (including music, law, and divinity). The peer-supporting lifelong network of \"Schweitzer Fellows for Life\" numbered over 2,000 members in 2008, and is growing by nearly 1,000 every four years. Nearly 150 of these Schweitzer Fellows have served at the Hospital in Lambaréné, for three-month periods during their last year of medical school.\n\nThe prize was first awarded on 29 May 2011 to Eugen Drewermann and the physician couple Rolf and Raphaela Maibach in Königsfeld im Schwarzwald, where Schweitzer's former residence now houses the Albert Schweitzer Museum.\n\nRecordings of Schweitzer playing the music of Bach are available on CD. During 1934 and 1935 he resided in Britain, delivering the Gifford Lectures at Edinburgh University, and those on \"Religion in Modern Civilization\" at Oxford and London. He had originally conducted trials for recordings for HMV on the organ of the old Queen's Hall in London. These records did not satisfy him, the instrument being too harsh. In mid-December 1935 he began to record for Columbia Records on the organ of All Hallows, Barking-by-the-Tower, London. Then at his suggestion the sessions were transferred to the church of Ste Aurélie in Strasbourg, on a mid-18th-century organ by Johann Andreas Silbermann (brother of Gottfried), an organ-builder greatly revered by Bach, which had been restored by the Lorraine organ-builder Frédéric Härpfer shortly before the First World War. These recordings were made in the course of a fortnight in October 1936.\n\nSchweitzer developed a technique for recording the performances of Bach's music. Known as \"The Schweitzer Technique\", it is a slight improvement on what is commonly known as mid-side. The mid-side sees a figure-8 microphone pointed off-axis, perpendicular to the sound source. Then a single cardioid microphone is placed on axis, bisecting the figure-8 pattern. The signal from the figure-8 is mult-ed, panned hard left and right, one of the signals being flipped out of polarity. In the Schweitzer method, the figure-8 is replaced by two small diaphragm condenser microphones pointed directly away from each other. The information that each capsule collects is unique, unlike the identical out-of-polarity information generated from the figure-8 in a regular mid-side. The on-axis microphone is often a large diaphragm condenser. The technique has since been used to record many modern instruments.\n\nAltogether his early Columbia discs included 25 records of Bach and eight of César Franck. The Bach titles were mainly distributed as follows:\nLater recordings were made at Parish church, Günsbach: These recordings were made by C. Robert Fine during the time Dr. Schweitzer was being filmed in Günsbach for the documentary \"Albert Schweitzer.\" Fine originally self-released the recordings but later licensed the masters to Columbia.\nThe above were released in the United States as Columbia Masterworks boxed set SL-175.\n\n\nDramatisations of Schweitzer's life include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42688950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42688950", "title": "Appserver.io", "text": "Appserver.io\n\nappserver.io is an application server for PHP based web environments. The project consists of middleware which delivers classical PHP web applications and provides additional services.\n\nThe basic idea of a WildFly equivalent for PHP was present within TechDivision well before July 2013 when development on the project began, due to technical shortcomings of the PHP language .\n\nAt that time the possibility of a non-blocking, socket-based PHP middleware was given by using an asynchronous event driven workflow or forked processes. In parallel, as of August 2012, a threading extension for PHP by Joe Watkins enabled true POSIX compatible multithreading. Controversially threads were used because they allow the programmer to account for hardware usage instead of relying on the used runtime environment and enable easier communication between parallel working batches.\n\nAfter deciding on the technical blueprint, development began on the GitHub platform. , the project consisted of 36 separate repositories, around 80,000 lines of code and estimated effort of 18 years (COCOMO model).\n\nAppserver.io is open-source software under the OSL in version 3.0. It can be downloaded either as an installable package from the project page, or as a source from GitHub. The project aims at a freemium marketing approach splitting the software into a Community, Professional and an Enterprise Edition. , the Community Edition contained all base features and is open source and free of charge.\n\n, the Professional Edition could only be used within the Microsoft Azure cloud service and offers additional developer support.\n\nAppserver.io includes a runtime environment, containing PHP extended with external libraries, PHP extensions and service daemons. It is an out-of-the-box runtime environment for PHP development. The use of a multithreading environment is considered to break the so-called shared nothing concept of PHP as it allows for inter-process communication on object level.\n\nTogether with the bundled runtime, appserver.io bundles administration. As of version 0.6.0 application management is implemented with file-based application deployment.\n\nAppserver.io offers servlets, objects that persist between client requests. These can eliminate repeated bootstrapping of applications, but require the wrapping of bootstrap parts. Appserver.io offers an Enterprise Bean implementation similar to Enterprise Java Beans functionality.\n\nAppserver.io offers modular services that can be used individually by internal and external applications.\n\nFeatures:\n\nAppserver.io allows component-based scalability. Services and servers (e.g. an HTTP webserver) are adjustable in size and number based on an XML configuration file. Additional components can be configured for remote access, allowing for distributed systems and component replication.\n\n, appserver.io was in an early stage of development. The project provided tested, pre-release versions over GitHub. Development releases are regularly published over the homepage.\nAppserver.io follows a naming convention based on major and minor version numbers. The major digit specifies a context for minor version names exist. The 1.*.* major version is named Iron which stands for a mythological view on the medieval age. Every minor version 1.x.* within this major release consist of a noun describing something common to this major context.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38527429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38527429", "title": "Asset purchase agreement", "text": "Asset purchase agreement\n\nAn asset purchase agreement (APA) is an agreement between a buyer and a seller that finalizes terms and conditions related to the purchase and sale of a company's assets. It's important to note in an APA transaction, it is not necessary for the buyer to purchase all of the assets of the company. In fact, it's common for a buyer to exclude certain assets in an APA. Provisions of an APA may include payment of purchase price, monthly installments, liens and encumbrances on the assets, condition precedent for the closing, etc. An APA differs from a stock purchase agreement (SPA) where company shares, title to assets, and title to liabilities are also sold. In an APA, the buyer must select specific assets and avoid redundant assets. These assets are itemized in a schedule to the APA. The buyer in a SPA is purchasing shares of the company. In this case, itemization is not necessary due to transfer of company's ownership occurs as is. The APA is the legal mechanism for executing a corporate merger or acquisition.\n\nThe oil and gas industry does not distinguish between an asset and stock purchase in naming its related purchase agreement. In this industry, whether purchasing assets or stock, the definitive agreement is referred to as the Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA).\n\nDefining and controlling behavior is a major objective of the APA. The buyer must represent its authority to purchase the asset. The seller must represent its authority to sell the asset. Additionally, the seller represent that the purchase price of the asset is equal to its value, and that the seller is not in financial or legal trouble.\n\nIn the context of a merger or acquisition transaction, asset purchase agreements have a distinct set of advantages and disadvantages compared to using an equity (or stock) purchase agreement or a merger agreement. In an equity or merger acquisition, the purchaser is guaranteed to receive all of the target's assets without exception, but also automatically assumes all of the target's liabilities. An asset purchase agreement, alternatively, allows not only for a transaction where only some of the assets are transferred (which is sometimes desired) but also allows the parties to negotiate which liabilities of the target are expressly assumed by the purchaser, and allows the purchaser to leave behind those liabilities it does not wish to accept (or does not know about). A disadvantage of an asset purchase agreement is that it can often result in a greater number of change of control issues. For example, contracts held by a target, and acquired by a purchaser, will often require the consent of the counterparty in the context of an asset deal, whereas it is less common that such consent will be needed in connection with an equity sale or merger agreement.\n\nOther than having the flexibility to sell only certain assets, rather than the entire company, asset purchase agreements typically also include detailed provisions regarding the transfer of liabilities from the \n"}
{"id": "23278339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23278339", "title": "Black Panther Party", "text": "Black Panther Party\n\nThe Black Panther Party (BPP), originally the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, was a political organization founded by Bobby Seale and Huey Newton in October 1966. The party was active in the United States from 1966 until 1982, with international chapters operating in the United Kingdom in the early 1970s, and in Algeria from 1969 until 1972.\n\nAt its inception on October 15, 1966, the Black Panther Party's core practice was its armed citizens' patrols to monitor the behavior of officers of the Oakland Police Department and challenge police brutality in Oakland, California. In 1969, community social programs became a core activity of party members. The Black Panther Party instituted a variety of community social programs, most extensively the Free Breakfast for Children Programs, and community health clinics to address issues like food injustice. The party enrolled the most members and made the greatest impact in the Oakland-San Francisco Bay Area, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Seattle, and Philadelphia.\n\nFederal Bureau of Investigation Director J. Edgar Hoover called the party \"the greatest threat to the internal security of the country\", and he supervised an extensive counterintelligence program (COINTELPRO) of surveillance, infiltration, perjury, police harassment, and many other tactics designed to undermine Panther leadership, incriminate party members, discredit and criminalize the Party, and drain the organization of resources and manpower. The program was also accused of assassinating Black Panther members.\n\nBlack Panther Party members were involved in many fatal firefights with police including Huey Newton allegedly killing officer John Frey in 1967 and the 1968 Eldridge Cleaver led ambush of Oakland police officers which wounded two officers and killed Panther Bobby Hutton. The party was also involved in many internal conflicts including the murders of Alex Rackley and Betty Van Patter.\n\nGovernment oppression initially contributed to the party's growth, as killings and arrests of Panthers increased its support among African Americans and on the broad political left, both of whom valued the Panthers as a powerful force opposed to de facto segregation and the military draft. Black Panther Party membership reached a peak in 1970, with offices in 68 cities and thousands of members, then suffered a series of contractions. After being vilified by the mainstream press, public support for the party waned, and the group became more isolated. In-fighting among Party leadership, caused largely by the FBI's COINTELPRO operation, led to expulsions and defections that decimated the membership. Popular support for the Party declined further after reports appeared detailing the group's involvement in illegal activities such as drug dealing and extortion schemes directed against Oakland merchants. By 1972 most Panther activity centered on the national headquarters and a school in Oakland, where the party continued to influence local politics. Though under constant police surveillance, the Chicago chapter remained active and maintained their community programs until 1974. The Seattle chapter lasted longer than most, with a breakfast program and medical clinics that continued even after the chapter disbanded in 1977. Party contractions continued throughout the 1970s, and by 1980, the Black Panther Party had just 27 members.\n\nThe history of the Black Panther Party is controversial. Scholars have characterized the Black Panther Party as the most influential black movement organization of the late 1960s, and \"the strongest link between the domestic Black Liberation Struggle and global opponents of American imperialism\". Other commentators have described the Party as more criminal than political, characterized by \"defiant posturing over substance\".\n\nThe sweeping migration of black families out of the South during World War II transformed Oakland and cities throughout the West and the North. A new generation of young blacks growing up in these cities faced new conditions, new forms of poverty and racism unfamiliar to their parents, and they sought to develop new forms of politics to address them. Black Panther Party membership \"consisted of recent migrants whose families traveled north and west to escape the southern racial regime, only to be confronted with new forms of segregation and repression\". In the early 1960s, the insurgent Civil Rights Movement had dismantled the Jim Crow system of racial caste subordination using the tactics of non-violent civil disobedience, and demanding full citizenship rights for black people. But not much changed in the cities of the North and West. As the wartime jobs which drew much of the black migration \"fled to the suburbs along with white residents\", the black population was concentrated in poor \"urban ghettos\" with high unemployment, and substandard housing, mostly excluded from political representation, top universities, and the middle class. Police departments were almost all white. In 1966, only 16 of Oakland's 661 police officers were African American, representing less than 2.5% of the force.\n\nInsurgent civil rights practices proved incapable of redressing these conditions, and the organizations that had \"led much of the nonviolent civil disobedience\" such as SNCC and CORE went into decline. By 1966 a \"Black Power ferment\" emerged, consisting largely of young urban blacks, posing a question the Civil Rights Movement could not answer: \"how would black people in America win not only formal citizenship rights, but actual economic and political power?\" Young black people in Oakland and other cities developed a rich ferment of study groups and political organizations, and it is out of this ferment that the Black Panther Party emerged.\n\nIn late October 1966, Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale founded the Black Panther Party (originally the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense). In formulating a new politics, they drew on their experiences working with a variety of Black Power organizations. Newton and Seale first met in 1962 when they were both students at Merritt College. They joined Donald Warden's Afro-American Association, where they read widely, debated, and organized in an emergent black nationalist tradition inspired by Malcolm X and others. Eventually dissatisfied with Warden's accommodation-ism, they developed a revolutionary anti-imperialist perspective working with more active and militant groups like the Soul Students Advisory Council and the Revolutionary Action Movement. While bringing in a paycheck, jobs running youth service programs at the North Oakland Neighborhood Anti-Poverty Center allowed them to develop a revolutionary nationalist approach to community service, later a key element in the Black Panther Party's \"community survival programs.\"\n\nDissatisfied with the failure of these organizations to directly challenge police brutality and appeal to the \"brothers on the block\", Huey and Bobby sought to take matters into their own hands. After the police killed Matthew Johnson, an unarmed young black man in San Francisco, Newton observed the violent rebellion that followed. He had an epiphany that would distinguish the Black Panther Party from the multitude of organizations seeking to build Black Power. Newton saw the explosive rebellious anger of the ghetto as a force, and believed that if he could stand up to the police, he could organize that force into political power. Inspired by Robert F. Williams' armed resistance to the Ku Klux Klan (KKK) and Williams' book \"Negroes with Guns\", Newton studied gun laws in California until he knew it better than many police officers. Like the Community Alert Patrol in Los Angeles after the Watts Rebellion, he decided to organize patrols to follow the police around to monitor for incidents of brutality. But with a crucial difference: his patrols would carry loaded guns. Huey and Bobby raised enough money to buy two shotguns by buying bulk quantities of the recently publicized Little Red Book and reselling them to leftist radicals and liberal intellectuals on the UC Berkeley campus at three times the price. According to Bobby Seale, they would \"sell the books, make the money, buy the guns, and go on the streets with the guns. We'll protect a mother, protect a brother, and protect the community from the racist cops.\"\n\nOn October 29, 1966, Stokely Carmichael – a leader of SNCC – championed the call for \"Black Power\" and came to Berkeley to keynote a Black Power conference. At the time, he was promoting the armed organizing efforts of the Lowndes County Freedom Organization (LCFO) in Alabama and their use of the Black Panther symbol. Newton and Seale decided to adopt the Black Panther logo and form their own organization called the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense. Newton and Seale decided on a uniform of blue shirts, black pants, black leather jackets, black berets. Sixteen-year-old Bobby Hutton was their first recruit.\n\n\nThe initial tactic of the party utilized contemporary open-carry gun laws to protect Party members when policing the police. This act was done in order to record incidents of police brutality by distantly following police cars around neighborhoods. When confronted by a police officer, Party members cited laws proving they have done nothing wrong and threatened to take to court any officer that violated their constitutional rights. Between the end of 1966 to the start of 1967, the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense's armed police patrols in Oakland black communities attracted a small handful of members. Numbers grew slightly starting in February 1967, when the party provided an armed escort at the San Francisco airport for Betty Shabazz, Malcolm X's widow and keynote speaker for a conference held in his honor.\n\nThe Black Panther Party's focus on militancy was often construed as open hostility, feeding a reputation of violence even though early efforts by the Panthers focused primarily on promoting social issues and the exercise of their legal right to carry arms. The Panthers employed a California law that permitted carrying a loaded rifle or shotgun as long as it was publicly displayed and pointed at no one. Generally this was done while monitoring and observing police behavior in their neighborhoods, with the Panthers arguing that this emphasis on active militancy and openly carrying their weapons was necessary to protect individuals from police violence. For example, chants like \"The Revolution has come, it's time to pick up the gun. Off the pigs!\", helped create the Panthers' reputation as a violent organization.\n\nThe black community of Richmond, California, wanted protection against police brutality. With only three main streets for entering and exiting the neighborhood, it was easy for police to control, contain, and suppress the majority African-American community. On April 1, 1967, a black, unarmed twenty-two-year-old construction worker named Denzil Dowell was shot dead by police in North Richmond. Dowell's family contacted the Black Panther Party for assistance after county officials refused to investigate the case. The Party held rallies in North Richmond that educated the community on armed self-defense and the Denzil Dowell incident. Police seldom interfered at these rallies because every Panther was armed and no laws were broken. The Party's ideals resonated with several community members, who then brought their own guns to the next rallies.\n\nAwareness of the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense grew rapidly after their May 2, 1967, protest at the California State Assembly. On May 2, 1967, the California State Assembly Committee on Criminal Procedure was scheduled to convene to discuss what was known as the \"Mulford Act\", which would make the public carrying of loaded firearms illegal. Eldridge Cleaver and Newton put together a plan to send a group of 26 armed Panthers led by Seale from Oakland to Sacramento to protest the bill. The group entered the assembly carrying their weapons, an incident which was widely publicized, and which prompted police to arrest Seale and five others. The group pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of disrupting a legislative session.\nIn May 1967, the Panthers invaded the State Assembly Chamber in Sacramento, guns in hand, in what appears to have been a publicity stunt. Still, they scared a lot of important people that day. At the time, the Panthers had almost no following. Now, (a year later) however, their leaders speak on invitation almost anywhere radicals gather, and many whites wear \"Honkeys for Huey\" buttons, supporting the fight to free Newton, who has been in jail since last Oct. 28 (1967) on the charge that he killed a policeman ...\n\nThe Black Panther Party first publicized its original Ten-Point program on May 15, 1967, following the Sacramento action, in the second issue of \"The Black Panther\" newspaper. The original ten points of \"What We Want Now!\" follow:\n\n\nIn July 1969 the BPP organized the United Front Against Fascism conference in Oakland, which was attended by around 5,000 people representing a number of groups.\n\nIn August 1967, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) instructed its program \"COINTELPRO\" to \"neutralize\" what the FBI called \"black nationalist hate groups\" and other dissident groups. In September 1968, FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover described the Black Panthers as \"the greatest threat to the internal security of the country\". By 1969, the Black Panthers and their allies had become primary COINTELPRO targets, singled out in 233 of the 295 authorized \"Black Nationalist\" COINTELPRO actions. The goals of the program were to prevent the unification of militant black nationalist groups and to weaken the power of their leaders, as well as to discredit the groups to reduce their support and growth. The initial targets included the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, the Revolutionary Action Movement and the Nation of Islam. Leaders who were targeted included the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., Stokely Carmichael, H. Rap Brown, Maxwell Stanford and Elijah Muhammad.\n\nPart of the COINTELPRO actions were directed at creating and exploiting existing rivalries between black nationalist factions. One such attempt was to \"intensify the degree of animosity\" between the Black Panthers and the Blackstone Rangers, a Chicago street gang. They sent an anonymous letter to the Ranger's gang leader claiming that the Panthers were threatening his life, a letter whose intent was to induce \"reprisals\" against Panther leadership. In Southern California similar actions were taken to exacerbate a \"gang war\" between the Black Panther Party and a black nationalist group called the US Organization. It was alleged that the FBI had sent a provocative letter to the US Organization in an attempt to increase existing antagonism between the two groups.\n\nCOINTELPRO also aimed to dismantle the Black Panther Party by targeting the social/community programs they endorsed, one of the most influential being the Free Breakfast for Children Program. The success of the Free Breakfast for Children Program served to \"shed light on the government's failure to address child poverty and hunger—pointing to the limits of the nation's War on Poverty\". The ability of the Party to organize and provide for children more effectively than the U.S. government led the FBI to criticize the program as a means of exposing children to Panther Propaganda. In response to this, as an effort of disassembling the program, \"Police and Federal Agents regularly harassed and intimidated program participants, supporters, and Party workers and sought to scare away donors and organizations that housed the programs like churches and community centers\".\n\nOn October 28, 1967, Oakland police officer John Frey was shot to death in an altercation with Huey P. Newton during a traffic stop. In the stop, Newton and backup officer Herbert Heanes also suffered gunshot wounds. Newton was convicted of voluntary manslaughter at trial, but the conviction was later overturned. In his book \"Shadow of the Panther,\" writer Hugh Pearson alleges that Newton, while intoxicated in the hours before he was shot and killed, claimed to have willfully killed John Frey.\n\nAt the time, Newton claimed that he had been falsely accused, leading to the \"Free Huey\" campaign. This incident gained the party even wider recognition by the radical American left. Newton was released after three years, when his conviction was reversed on appeal.\n\nAs Newton awaited trial, the Black Panther party's \"Free Huey\" campaign developed alliances with numerous individuals, students and anti-war activists, \"advancing an anti-imperialist political ideology that linked the oppression of antiwar protestors to the oppression of blacks and Vietnamese\". The \"Free Huey\" campaign attracted black power organizations, New Left groups, and other activist groups such as the Progressive Labor Party, Bob Avakian of the Community for New Politics, and the Red Guard. For example, the Black Panther Party collaborated with the Peace and Freedom Party, which sought to promote a strong antiwar and antiracist politics in opposition to the establishment democratic party. The Black Panther Party provided needed legitimacy to the Peace and Freedom Party's racial politics and in return received invaluable support for the \"Free Huey\" campaign.\n\nIn 1968 the southern California chapter was founded by Alprentice \"Bunchy\" Carter in Los Angeles. Carter was the leader of the Slauson street gang, and many of the LA chapter's early recruits were Slausons.\n\nOn April 7, 1968, seventeen-year-old Panther national treasurer Bobby Hutton was killed, and Eldridge Cleaver, Black Panther Party Minister of Information, was wounded in a shootout with the Oakland police. Two police officers were also shot. Although at the time the BPP claimed that the police had ambushed them, several party members later admitted that Cleaver had led the Panther group on a deliberate ambush of the police officers, provoking the shoot-out. Seven other Panthers, including chief of staff David Hilliard, were also arrested. Hutton's death became a rallying issue for Panther supporters.\n\n\nIn 1968, the group shortened its name to the Black Panther Party and sought to focus directly on political action. Members were encouraged to carry guns and to defend themselves against violence. An influx of college students joined the group, which had consisted chiefly of \"brothers off the block\". This created some tension in the group. Some members were more interested in supporting the Panthers' social programs, while others wanted to maintain their \"street mentality\".\n\nBy 1968, the party had expanded into many cities throughout the United States, among them, Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Newark, New Orleans, New York City, Omaha, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle, Toledo, and Washington, D.C. Peak membership was near 5,000 by 1969, and their newspaper, under the editorial leadership of Eldridge Cleaver, had a circulation of 250,000. The group created a Ten-Point Program, a document that called for \"Land, Bread, Housing, Education, Clothing, Justice and Peace\", as well as exemption from conscription for black men, among other demands. With the Ten-Point program, \"What We Want, What We Believe\", the Black Panther Party expressed its economic and political grievances.\n\nCurtis Austin states that by late 1968, Black Panther Party ideology had evolved to the point where they began to reject black nationalism and became more a \"revolutionary internationalist movement\":\n\n[The Party] dropped its wholesale attacks against whites and began to emphasize more of a class analysis of society. Its emphasis on Marxist–Leninist doctrine and its repeated espousal of Maoist statements signaled the group's transition from a revolutionary nationalist to a revolutionary internationalist movement. Every Party member had to study Mao Tse-tung's \"Little Red Book\" to advance his or her knowledge of peoples' struggle and the revolutionary process.\n\nPanther slogans and iconography spread. At the 1968 Summer Olympics, Tommie Smith and John Carlos, two American medalists, gave the black power salute during the playing of the American national anthem. The International Olympic Committee banned them from the Olympic Games for life. Film star Jane Fonda publicly supported Huey Newton and the Black Panthers during the early 1970s. She actually ended up informally adopting the daughter of two Black Panther members, Mary Luana Williams. Fonda and other Hollywood celebrities became involved in the Panthers' leftist programs. The Panthers attracted a wide variety of left-wing revolutionaries and political activists, including writer Jean Genet, former \"Ramparts\" magazine editor David Horowitz (who later became a major critic of what he describes as Panther criminality) and left-wing lawyer Charles R. Garry, who acted as counsel in the Panthers' many legal battles.\n\nThe BPP adopted a \"Serve the People\" program, which at first involved a free breakfast program for children. By the end of 1968, the BPP had established 38 chapters and branches, claiming more than five thousand members. Eldridge and Kathleen Cleaver left the country days before Cleaver was to turn himself in to serve the remainder of a thirteen-year sentence for a 1958 rape conviction. They settled in Algeria.\n\nBy the end of the year, party membership peaked at around 2,000. Party members engaged in criminal activities such as extortion, stealing, violent discipline of BPP members, and robberies. The BPP leadership took one third of the proceeds from robberies committed by BPP members.\n\nInspired by Mao Zedong's advice to revolutionaries in \"The Little Red Book\", Newton called on the Panthers to \"serve the people\" and to make \"survival programs\" a priority within its branches. The most famous of their programs was the Free Breakfast for Children Program, initially run out of an Oakland church.\n\nThe Free Breakfast For Children program was especially significant because it served as a space for educating youth about the current condition of the Black community, and the actions that the Party was taking to address that condition. \"While the children ate their meal[s], members [of the Party] taught them liberation lessons consisting of Party messages and Black history.\" Through this program, the Party was able to influence young minds, and strengthen their ties to communities as well as gain widespread support for their ideologies. The breakfast program became so popular that the Panthers Party claimed to have fed twenty thousand children in the 1968-69 school year.\n\nOther survival programs were free services such as clothing distribution, classes on politics and economics, free medical clinics, lessons on self-defense and first aid, transportation to upstate prisons for family members of inmates, an emergency-response ambulance program, drug and alcohol rehabilitation, and testing for sickle-cell disease.\n\nIn 1968, BPP Minister of Information Eldridge Cleaver ran for Presidential office on the Peace and Freedom Party ticket. They were a big influence on the White Panther Party, that was tied to the Detroit/Ann Arbor band MC5 and their manager John Sinclair, author of the book \"Guitar Army\" that also promulgated a ten-point program.\n\n\nViolent conflict between the Panther chapter in LA and the US Organization, a black nationalist group, resulted in shootings and beatings, and led to the murders of at least four Black Panther Party members. On January 17, 1969, Los Angeles Panther Captain Bunchy Carter and Deputy Minister John Huggins were killed in Campbell Hall on the UCLA campus, in a gun battle with members of the US Organization. Another shootout between the two groups on March 17 led to further injuries. Two more Panthers died.\n\nParamount to their beliefs regarding the need for individual agency in order to catalyze community change, the Black Panther Party (BPP) strongly supported the education of the masses. As part of their Ten-Point Program which set forth the ideals and goals of the party, they demanded an equitable education for all black people. Number 5 of the \"What We Want Now!\" section of the program reads: \"We want education for our people that exposes the true nature of this decadent American society. We want education that teaches us our true history and our role in the present day society.\" In order to ensure that this occurred, the Black Panther Party took the education of their youth in their own hands by first establishing after-school programs and then opening up Liberation Schools in a variety of locations throughout the country which focused their curriculum on Black history, writing skills, and political science.\n\nIntercommunal Youth Institute\n\nThe first Liberation School was opened by the Richmond Black Panthers in July 1969 with brunch served and snacks provided to students. Another school was opened in Mt. Vernon New York on July 17 of the subsequent year. These schools were informal in nature and more closely resembled after-school or summer programs. While these campuses were the first to open, the first full-time and longest-running Liberation school was opened in January 1971 in Oakland in response to the inequitable conditions in the Oakland Unified School District which was ranked one of the lowest scoring districts in California. Named the Intercommunal Youth Institute (IYI), this school, under the directorship of Brenda Bay, and later, Ericka Huggins, enrolled twenty-eight students in its first year, with the majority being the children of Black Panther parents. This number grew to fifty by the 1973-1974 school year. In order to provide full support for Black Panther parents whose time was spent organizing, some of the students and faculty members lived together year around. The school itself was dissimilar to traditional schools in a variety of ways including the fact that students were separated by academic performance rather than age and students were often provided one on one support as the faculty to student ratio was 1:10.\n\nThe Panther's goal in opening Liberation Schools, and specifically the Intercommunal Youth Institute, was to provide students with an education that wasn't being provided in the \"white\" schools, as the public schools in the district employed a eurocentric assimilationist curriculum with little to no attention to black history and culture. While students were provided with traditional courses such as English, Math, and Science, they were also exposed to activities focused on class structure and the prevalence of institutional racism. The overall goal of the school was to instill a sense of revolutionary consciousness in the students. With a strong belief in experiential learning, students had the opportunity to participate in community service projects as well as practice their writing skills by drafting letters to political prisoners associated with the Black Panther Party. Huggins is noted as saying, \"I think that the school's principles came from the socialist principles we tried to live in the Black Panther Party. One of them being critical thinking- that children should learn not what to think but how to think ... the school was an expression of the collective wisdom of the people who envisioned it. And it was ... a living thing [that] changed every year. Funding for the Intercommunal Youth Institute was provided through a combination of Black Panther fundraising and community support.\n\nOakland Community School\n\nIn 1974, due to increased interest in enrolling in the school, school officials decided to move to a larger facility and subsequently changed the school's name to Oakland Community School. During this year, the school graduated its first class. Although the student population continued to grow ranging between 50 and 150 between 1974-1977, the original core values of individualized instruction remained. In September 1977, the school received a special award from Governor Edmund Brown Jr. and the California Legislature for \"having set the standard for the highest \nlevel of elementary education in the state.\n\nThe school eventually closed in 1982 due to governmental pressure on party leadership which caused insufficient membership and funds to continue running the school.\n\nIn Chicago, on December 4, 1969, two Panthers were killed when the Chicago Police raided the home of Panther leader Fred Hampton. The raid had been orchestrated by the police in conjunction with the FBI. Hampton was shot and killed, as was Panther guard Mark Clark. A federal investigation reported that only one shot was fired by the Panthers, and police fired at least 80 shots. The only shot fired by the Panthers was from Mark Clark, who appeared to fire a single round determined to be the result of a reflexive death convulsion after he was immediately struck in the chest by shots from the police at the start of the raid.\n\nHampton was sleeping next to his pregnant fiancée, and was subsequently shot twice in the head at point blank range while unconscious. Coroner reports show that Hampton was drugged with a powerful barbiturate that night, and would have been unable to have been awoken by the sounds of the police raid. His body was then dragged into the hallway. He was 21 years old and unarmed at the time of his death. Seven other Panthers sleeping at the house at the time of the raid were then beaten and seriously wounded, then arrested under charges of aggravated assault and attempted murder of the officers involved in the raid. These charges would later be dropped.\n\nFormer FBI agent Wesley Swearingen asserts that the Bureau was guilty of a \"plot to murder\" the Panthers. Hampton had been slipped the barbiturates which had left him unconscious by William O'Neal, who had been working as an FBI informant. Cook County State's Attorney Edward Hanrahan, his assistant and eight Chicago police officers were indicted by a federal grand jury over the raid, but the charges were later dismissed. In 1979 civil action, Hampton's family won $1.85 million from the city of Chicago in a wrongful death settlement.\n\nIn May 1969, three members of the New Haven chapter tortured and murdered Alex Rackley, a 19-year-old member of the New York chapter, because they suspected him of being a police informant. Three party officers—Warren Kimbro, George Sams Jr., and Lonnie McLucas—later admitted taking part. Sams, who gave the order to shoot Rackley at the murder scene, turned state's evidence and testified that he had received orders personally from Bobby Seale to carry out the execution. Party supporters responded that Sams was himself the informant and an agent provocateur employed by the FBI. The case resulted in the New Haven Black Panther trials of 1970. Kimbro and Sams were convicted of the murder, but the trials of Seale and Ericka Huggins ended with a hung jury, and the prosecution chose not to seek another trial.\n\nActivists from many countries around the globe supported the Panthers and their cause. In Scandinavian countries such as Norway and Finland, for example, left-wing activists organized a tour for Bobby Seale and Masai Hewitt in 1969. At each destination along the tour, the Panthers talked about their goals and the \"Free Huey!\" campaign. Seale and Hewitt made a stop in Germany as well, gaining support for the \"Free Huey!\" campaign.\n\n\nIn 1970, a group of Panthers traveled through Asia and they were welcomed as guests of the governments of North Vietnam, North Korea, and China. The group's first stop was in North Korea, where the Panthers met with local officials in order to discuss ways in which they could help each other fight against American imperialism. Eldridge Cleaver traveled to Pyongyang twice in 1969 and 1970, and following these trips he made an effort to publicize the writings and works of North Korean leader Kim Il-sung in the United States. After leaving North Korea, the group traveled to North Vietnam with the same agenda in mind: finding ways to put an end to American imperialism. Eldridge Cleaver was invited to speak to Black GIs by the North Vietnamese government. He encouraged them to join the Black Liberation Struggle by arguing that the United States government was only using them for its own purposes. Instead of risking their lives on the battlefield for a country that continued to oppress them, Cleaver believed that the black GIs should risk their lives in support of their own liberation. After leaving Vietnam, Cleaver met with the Chinese ambassador to Algeria in order to express their mutual animosity towards the American government.\n\nWhen Algeria held its first Pan-African Cultural Festival, they invited many important figures from the United States. Among the important figures invited to the festival were Bobby Seale and Eldridge Cleaver. The cultural festival allowed Black Panthers to network with representatives of various international anti-imperialist movements. This was a significant time, which lead to the formation of the International Section of the Party. It is at this festival that Cleaver met with the ambassador of North Korea, who later invited him to an International Conference of Revolutionary Journalists in Pyongyang. Eldridge also met with Yasser Arafat, and gave a speech supporting the Palestinians and their goal of achieving liberation.\n\n\nNewton focuses the BPP on the Party's Oakland school and various other social service programs. In early 1971, the BPP founded the \"Intercommunal Youth Institute\" in January 1971, with the intent of demonstrating how black youth ought to be educated. Ericka Huggins was the director of the school and Regina Davis was an administrator. The school was unique in that it did not have grade levels but instead had different skill levels so an 11-year-old could be in second-level English and fifth-level science. Elaine Brown taught reading and writing to a group of 10- to 11-year-olds deemed \"uneducable\" by the system. The school children were given free busing; breakfast, lunch, and dinner; books and school supplies; children were taken to have medical checkups; many children were given free clothes.\n\nSignificant disagreements among the Party's leaders over how to confront ideological differences led to a split within the party. Certain members felt that the Black Panthers should participate in local government and social services, while others encouraged constant conflict with the police. For some of the Party's supporters, the separations among political action, criminal activity, social services, access to power, and grass-roots identity became confusing and contradictory as the Panthers' political momentum was bogged down in the criminal justice system. These (and other) disagreements led to a split.\n\nSome Panther leaders, such as Huey Newton and David Hilliard, favored a focus on community service coupled with self-defense; others, such as Eldridge Cleaver, embraced a more confrontational strategy. Eldridge Cleaver deepened the schism in the party when he publicly criticized the Party for adopting a \"reformist\" rather than \"revolutionary\" agenda and called for Hilliard's removal. Cleaver was expelled from the Central Committee but went on to lead a splinter group, the Black Liberation Army, which had previously existed as an underground paramilitary wing of the Party.\n\nThe split turned violent, as the Newton and Cleaver factions carried out retaliatory assassinations of each other's members, resulting in the deaths of four people.\n\nIn late September 1971, Huey P Newton led a delegation to China and stayed for 10 days. At every airport in China, Huey was greeted by thousands of people waving copies of the Little Red Book and displaying signs that said \"we support the Black Panther Party, down with US imperialism\" or \"we support the american people but the Nixon imperialist regime must be overthrown\". During the trip the Chinese arranged for him to meet and have dinner with a DPRK ambassador, a Tanzanian ambassador, and delegations from both North Vietnam and the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. Huey was under the impression he was going to meet Mao Zedong, but instead had two meetings with the first Premier of the People's Republic of China Zhou Enlai. One of these meetings also included Mao Zedong's wife Jiang Qing. Huey described China as \"a free and liberated territory with a socialist government\".\n\n\nIn 1972, the party began closing down dozens of chapters and branches all over the country, and bringing members and operations to Oakland. The political arm of the southern California chapter was shut down and its members moved to Oakland, although the underground military arm remained for a time. The underground remnants of the LA chapter, which had emerged from the Slausons street gang, eventually re-emerged as the Crips, a street gang who at first advocated social reform before devolving into racketeering.\n\nThe party developed a five-year plan to take over the city of Oakland politically. Bobby Seale ran for mayor, Elaine Brown ran for city council, and other Panthers ran for minor offices. Neither Seale nor Brown were elected. A few Panthers won seats on local government commissions.\n\nMinister of Education Ray \"Masai\" Hewitt created the Buddha Samurai, the party's underground security cadre in Oakland. Newton expelled Hewitt from the party later in 1972, but the security cadre remained in operation under the leadership of Flores Forbes. One of the cadre's main functions was to extort and rob drug dealers and after-hours clubs.\n\nIn 1974, Huey Newton and eight other Panthers were arrested and charged with assault on police officers. Newton went into exile in Cuba to avoid prosecution for the murder of Kathleen Smith, an eighteen-year-old prostitute. Newton was also indicted for pistol-whipping his tailor, Preston Callins. Although Newton confided to friends that Kathleen Smith was his \"first nonpolitical murder\", he was ultimately acquitted, after one witness's testimony was impeached by her admission that she had been smoking marijuana on the night of the murder, and another prostitute witness recanted her testimony. Newton was also acquitted of assaulting Preston Callins after Callins refused to press charges.\n\nIn 1974, as Huey Newton prepared to go into exile in Cuba, he appointed Elaine Brown as the first Chairwoman of the Party. Under Brown's leadership, the Party became involved in organizing for more radical electoral campaigns, including Brown's 1975 unsuccessful run for Oakland City Council. The Party supported Lionel Wilson in his successful election as the first black mayor of Oakland, in exchange for Wilson's assistance in having criminal charges dropped against Party member Flores Forbes, leader of the Buddha Samurai cadre.\n\nIn addition to changing the Party's direction towards more involvement in the electoral arena, Brown also increased the influence of women Panthers by placing them in more visible roles within the previously male-dominated organization.\n\nPanther leader Elaine Brown hired Betty Van Patter in 1974 as a bookkeeper. Van Patter had previously served as a bookkeeper for \"Ramparts\" magazine, and was introduced to the Panther leadership by David Horowitz, who had been the editor of \"Ramparts\" and a major fundraiser and board member for the Panther school. Later that year, after a dispute with Brown over financial irregularities, Van Patter went missing on December 13, 1974. Some weeks later, her severely beaten corpse was found on a San Francisco Bay beach.\n\nThere was insufficient evidence for police to charge anyone with van Patter's murder, but the Black Panther Party leadership was \"almost universally believed to be responsible\".\n\nHuey Newton later allegedly confessed to a friend that he had ordered Van Patter's murder, and that Van Patter had been tortured and raped before being killed.\n\nIn 1977, Newton returned from exile in Cuba, and found that some men in the party were concerned about the increased power delegated to women, who now outnumbered men in the organization. According to Elaine Brown, Newton authorized the disciplining of school administrator Regina Davis as punishment for reprimanding a male coworker. Davis was hospitalized with a broken jaw. Brown said \"The beating of Regina would be taken as a clear signal that the words 'Panther' and 'comrade' had taken a gender on gender connotation, denoting an inferiority in the female half of us.\" Brown resigned from the party and fled to LA.\n\nAlthough many scholars and activists date the Party's downfall to the period before Brown became the leader, an increasingly smaller cadre of Panthers continued to exist through the 1970s. By 1980, Panther membership had dwindled to 27, and the Panther-sponsored school closed in 1982 after it became known that Newton was embezzling funds from the school to pay for his drug addiction.\n\nIn October 1977 Flores Forbes, the party's assistant chief of staff, led a botched attempt to assassinate Crystal Gray, a key prosecution witness in Newton's upcoming trial who had been present the day of Kathleen Smith's murder. Unbeknownst to the assailants, they attacked the wrong house and the occupant returned fire. During the shootout one of the Panthers, Louis Johnson, was killed and the other two assailants escaped. One of the two surviving assassins, Flores Forbes, fled to Las Vegas, Nevada, with the help of Panther paramedic Nelson Malloy. Fearing that Malloy would discover the truth behind the botched assassination attempt, Newton allegedly ordered a \"house cleaning\", and Malloy was shot and buried alive in the desert. Although permanently paralyzed from the waist down, Malloy recovered from the assault and told police that fellow Panthers Rollin Reid and Allen Lewis were behind his attempted murder. Newton denied any involvement or knowledge and said the events \"might have been the result of overzealous party members\".\nNewton was ultimately acquitted of the murder of Kathleen Smith, after Crystal Gray's testimony was impeached by her admission that she had smoked marijuana on the night of the murder, and acquitted of assaulting Preston Callins after Callins refused to press charges.\n\nAt its beginnings, the Black Panther Party reclaimed black masculinity and traditional gender roles. A notice in the first issue of \"The Black Panther\", the Panthers' newspaper, applauded the Panthers—by then an all–male organization—as \"the cream of Black Manhood ... there for the protection and defense of our Black community\". Scholars consider the Party's stance of armed resistance highly masculine, with the use of guns and violence affirming proof of manhood. In 1968, the Black Panther Party newspaper stated in several articles that the role of female Panthers was to \"stand behind black men\" and be supportive. The first black woman to join the party was Joan Tarika Lewis, in 1967.\n\nNevertheless, women were present in the party from the early days and expanded their roles throughout the life of the party. Women often joined the party because they were trying to fight against gender unequal gender norms. By 1969, the Black Panther Party newspaper officially stated that men and women are equal and instructed male Panthers to treat female Party members as equals, a drastic change from the idea of the female Panther as subordinate. That same year, Deputy Chairman Fred Hampton of the Illinois chapter conducted a meeting condemning sexism. After 1969, the Party considered sexism counter-revolutionary.\n\nThe Black Panthers adopted a \"womanist\" ideology in consideration of the unique experiences of African-American women, affirming the belief that racism is more oppressive than sexism. Womanism was a mix of black nationalism and the vindication of women, putting race and community struggle before the gender issue. Womanism posited that traditional feminism failed to include race and class struggle in its denunciation of male sexism and was therefore part of white hegemony. In opposition to some feminist viewpoints, womanism promoted a gender role point of view that men are not above women, but hold a different position in the home and community, so men and women must work together for the preservation of African-American culture and community.\n\nFrom this point forward, the Black Panther Party newspaper portrayed women as revolutionaries, using the example of party members such as Kathleen Cleaver, Angela Davis and Erika Huggins, all political and intelligent women. The Black Panther Party newspaper often showed women as active participants in the armed self-defense movement, picturing them with children and guns as protectors of the home, the family and the community.\n\nPolice killed or incarcerated many male leaders, but female Panthers were less targeted in the party for much of the 1960s and 1970s. By 1968, women made up two-thirds of the party, while many male members were out of duty. In the absence of much of the original male leadership women moved into all parts of the organization. Roles included leadership positions, implementing community programs, and uplifting the black community. Women in the group called attention to sexism within the Black Panther Party, and worked to make changes from within.\n\nFrom 1968 to the end of its publication in 1982, the head editors of the Black Panther Party newspaper were all women. In 1970, approximately 40% to 70% of Party members were women, and several chapters, like the Des Moines, Iowa, and New Haven, Connecticut, were headed by women.\n\nDuring the 1970s, recognizing the limited access poor women had to abortion, the Party officially supported women's reproductive rights, including abortion. That same year, the Party condemned and opposed prostitution.\n\nMany African-American women Panthers began to demand childcare in order to be able to fully participate in the organization. The Black Panther Party responded to the women by establishing on-site child development centers in multiple chapters across the United States. \"Childcare became largely a group activity\", the children would be raised collectively during the week. This was following the Panther's commitment to collectivism and an extension of the African-American extended family tradition. Childcare allowed women Panthers to still be able to embrace motherhood, while at the same time allowing them to fully participate in the Party. Creating Childcare to the Party allowed women Panthers to not to have to make the choice between motherhood and activism.\n\nThe Black Panther Party experienced significant problems in several chapters with sexism and gender oppression, particularly in the Oakland chapter where cases of sexual harassment and gender division were common. When Oakland Panthers arrived to bolster the New York City Panther chapter after twenty one New York leaders were incarcerated, they displayed such chauvinistic attitudes towards New York Panther women that they had to be fended off at gunpoint. Some Party leaders thought the fight for gender equality was a threat to men and a distraction from the struggle for racial equality.\n\nIn response, the Chicago and New York chapters, among others, established equal gender rights as a priority and tried to eradicate sexist attitudes.\n\nBy the time the Black Panther Party disbanded, official policy was to reprimand men who violated the rules of gender equality.\n\nIn the beginning, recruiting women was not at the forefront to Huey Newton's and Bobby Seale's minds. In an interview with Seale, he stated that Newton targeted \"brothers who had been pimping, brothers who had been peddling dope, brothers who ain't gonna take no shit, brothers who had been fighting the pigs\". Also, they didn't realize that women could help the fight until one came into an interest meeting asking about \"female leadership.\" Regina Jennings recalls that many men in leadership positions had an \"unchecked\" sexism problem and her task was to \"lift the bedroom out of their minds.\" She even remembers overhearing a conversation between some Panthers when were was being recruited: \"Some concluded that the FBI sent me, but the captain assured them with salty good humor that, 'She's too stupid to be from the FBI.' He thought my cover and my comments too honest, too loud, and too ridiculous to be serious.\" She recalls her days in Oakland, California as a teenager looking for something to do to add purpose to her life and to her community. She grew up around police brutality, so it was nothing new. Her goal in joining was \"smashing racism\" because she viewed herself as Black before she was a women. In her community, that identity is what she felt held her back the most.\n\nThe Black Panther Party was involved in many community projects as part of their organization. These projects included community outreach, like the breakfast program, education, and health programs. In many cases women were the ones primarily involved with administering these types of programs.\n\nFrom the beginning of the Black Panther Party education was a fundamental goal of the organization. This was highlighted in the Ten Point Platform, the newspaper that was distributed by the party, and the public commentary shared by the Panthers. The newspaper was one of the primary and original consciousness raising and educational measures taken by the party. Despite the fact that men were out distributing the newspaper, women like Elaine Brown and Kathleen Cleaver were behind the scenes working on those papers.\n\nElaine Brown rose to power within the BPP by filling the position of minister of information, after Eldridge Cleaver fled the country. In 1974 Elaine Brown took the seat of chair for the Black Panther Party in Oakland. She was appointed by Huey Newton, the previous chair, while Newton and other high-ranking members were dealing with legal issues. From the beginning of her tenure as chair, she faced opposition within the party and warned against a coup. During her time as chair she appointed many female officials, and faced backlash for her policies focused on equality within the organization. When Huey Newton returned from exile and approved of the beating of one of the female leaders of a panther school, Brown decided to leave the organization.\n\nIn an interview conducted by Judson Jeffries, Gwen Robinson reflects and relays stories and her experiences before and during her time in the Black Panther Party Detroit Division. She explains that she joined the Party in October 1969 with a little push back from her mother, who participated in a march with Martin Luther King Jr., in the early part of the decade. She chose the Black Panther Party (BBP) because \"[She] felt a closeness and a bond with them\" that she didn't feel with other organizations around at the time, like the \"SNCC, NAACP, the Urban League, the Nation of Islam, Shrines of Madonna, Eastside Voice of Independent Detroit (ESVID), the Republic of New Africa, and the Revolutionary Action Movement.\"\n\nShe dropped out of high school in the 12th grade because at this point she had a good standing with the Party and the environment of her high school education wasn't the best for black folks at the time. She attended Denby High School in Detroit. \"There were some students who would use the N word freely\" and \"a P.E. instructor accused [her] of stealing her keys.\" She was also \"shoved\" into the pool when she refused to swim in fear of getting her hair wet and her White teacher who taught Afro-American history would kick people out of the class \"if you challenged his position on certain Black leaders.\" In conclusion, dropping out of school was a means to an ends.\n\nShe continued her work in the BBP and \"was living as part of a collective\" where all the work was shared and she enjoyed her time selling newspapers all day long. She climbed the ranks and became the branch's Communications Secretary for the next to the last year of her membership in January 1971. She was placed in this position after the former left due to \"some issues related to sexism\". In this branch, unlike the average BBP divisions, the ways of thinking of the \"brothers\" never turned violent or physical. She claims, \"that kind of thing didn't take place in Detroit.\" She left the organization in 1973, but she still had a link to the group through her husband. He was their Circulation Manager. The legacy she wishes to leave behind is collective work can take you anywhere. When asked, \"what is the legacy of the Detroit branch, in your opinion?\" She answers, \"It's crucial that people realize that the strength of the organization was rooted in discipline, deep commitment, and a genuine love for the people.\"\n\nThere is considerable debate about what impact the Black Panther Party had on the wider society, or even on their local environment. Author Jama Lazerow writes:\n\nAs inheritors of the discipline, pride, and calm self-assurance preached by Malcolm X, the Panthers became national heroes in black communities by infusing abstract nationalism with street toughness—by joining the rhythms of black working-class youth culture to the interracial élan and effervescence of Bay Area New Left politics  ... In 1966, the Panthers defined Oakland's ghetto as a territory, the police as interlopers, and the Panther mission as the defense of community. The Panthers' famous \"policing the police\" drew attention to the spatial remove that White Americans enjoyed from the police brutality that had come to characterize life in black urban communities.\n\nProfessor Judson L. Jeffries of Purdue University calls the Panthers \"the most effective black revolutionary organization in the 20th century\". The \"Los Angeles Times\", in a 2013 review of \"Black Against Empire\", an \"authoritative\" history of the BPP published by University of California Press, called the organization a \"serious political and cultural force\" and \"a movement of intelligent, explosive dreamers\". The Black Panther Party is featured in the exhibits and curriculum of the National Civil Rights Museum.\n\nNumerous former Panthers have held elected office in the United States, some into the 21st century; these include Charles Barron (New York City Council), Nelson Malloy (Winston-Salem City Council), and Bobby Rush (US House of Representatives). Most of these officials hold positive assessments of the BPP's overall contribution to black liberation and American democracy. In 1990, the Chicago City Council passed a resolution declaring \"Fred Hampton Day\" in honor of the slain leader. In Winston-Salem in 2012, a large contingent of local officials and community leaders came together to install a historic marker of the local BPP headquarters; State Representative Earline Parmone declared \"[The Black Panther Party] dared to stand up and say, 'We're fed up and we're not taking it anymore' ... Because they had courage, today I stand as ... the first African American ever to represent Forsyth County in the state Senate\".\n\nIn October 2006, the Black Panther Party held a 40-year reunion in Oakland.\n\nIn January 2007, a joint California state and Federal task force charged eight men with the August 29, 1971, murder of California police officer Sgt. John Young. The defendants have been identified as former members of the Black Liberation Army. Two have been linked to the Black Panthers. In 1975 a similar case was dismissed when a judge ruled that police gathered evidence through the use of torture. On June 29, 2009, Herman Bell pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter in the death of Sgt. Young. In July 2009, charges were dropped against four of the accused: Ray Boudreaux, Henry W. Jones, Richard Brown and Harold Taylor. Also that month Jalil Muntaquim pleaded no contest to conspiracy to commit voluntary manslaughter becoming the second person to be convicted in this case.\n\nSince the 1990s, former Panther chief of staff David Hilliard has offered tours of sites in Oakland that are historically significant to the Black Panther Party.\n\nVarious groups and movements have picked names inspired by the Black Panthers:\n\nIn April 1977 Panthers were key supporters of the 504 Sit-In, the longest of which was the 25-day occupation of the San Francisco Federal Building by over 120 people with disabilities. Panthers provided daily home-cooked meals and support of the people that proved essential to the protest's success, which in turn inspired a movement that was instrumental in getting the \"Americans with Disabilities Act\" (ADA) passed thirteen years later.\n\nIn 1989, a group calling itself the \"New Black Panther Party\" was formed in Dallas, Texas. Ten years later, the NBPP became home to many former Nation of Islam members when its chairmanship was taken by Khalid Abdul Muhammad.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center include the New Black Panthers on their lists of designated hate groups. The Huey Newton Foundation, former chairman and co-founder Bobby Seale, and members of the original Black Panther Party have insisted that this New Black Panther Party is illegitimate and they have strongly objected to it by stating that there \"is no new Black Panther Party\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "586770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586770", "title": "Cogito (magazine)", "text": "Cogito (magazine)\n\nCogito is a philosophical magazine published by Nefeli publications (Athens, Greece) and a member of the Eurozine network. It was founded in 2004 with the intention of making philosophy accessible to the lay reader without compromising it through oversimplification. \"Cogito\" is therefore an attempt to approach everyday issues and themes through a philosophically rigorous lens. Contributors, most of them professional philosophers but also academics from a variety of disciplines,as well as writers, consider such varied topics as colors, taste, gardens, cinema, desire and love, art and aesthetics, and logical paradoxes. Each issue, consisting of a number of articles, is dedicated to a different topic: privacy, intelligence both natural and artificial, applied ethics, history and narrative, friendship. Each issue further presents a philosopher to its readers. In the past, subjects of this 'philosophical library' have included Plato, Wittgenstein, J.S. Mill, and Kant.\n"}
{"id": "10639142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10639142", "title": "Conspiracy Con", "text": "Conspiracy Con\n\nConspiracy Con is an annual conspiracy convention that was begun in 2001 by Brian William Hall and takes place in Santa Clara, California, USA. It was held on the weekend preceding Memorial Day until 2007 and has since taken place on the following weekend. the event has not been held since 2013, the 2014 convention being cancelled after its producer was unable to fund it.\n\nTopics have included: secret societies, the New World Order, chemtrails, MK Ultra, reptilians, suppressed technology (like free energy suppression), and other paranormal phenomena.\n\nHall states that the convention looks \"to the manipulation of humanity by non-human intelligences... be they alien, inter-dimensional, demonic, satanic... whatever consciousness it is, operating on (and in) this planet, that looks upon humankind as sheep and cattle to be herded and slaughtered at will.\" \"[The convention] is meant to be controversial; it is a serious approach to serious issues that are rarely or never reported by the mainstream media.\"\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League described the 2002 Con as \"a conference focusing on various anti-government anti-Semitic, and anti-Christian conspiracy theories.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7228438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7228438", "title": "Darwinian literary studies", "text": "Darwinian literary studies\n\nDarwinian literary studies (also known as literary Darwinism) is a branch of literary criticism that studies literature in the context of evolution by means of natural selection, including gene-culture coevolution. It represents an emerging trend of neo-Darwinian thought in intellectual disciplines beyond those traditionally considered as evolutionary biology: evolutionary psychology, evolutionary anthropology, behavioral ecology, evolutionary developmental psychology, cognitive psychology, affective neuroscience, behavioural genetics, evolutionary epistemology, and other such disciplines.\n\nInterest in the relationship between Darwinism and the study of literature began in the nineteenth century, for example, among Italian literary critics. For example, Ugo Angelo Canello argued that literature was the history of the human psyche, and as such, played a part in the struggle for natural selection, while Francesco de Sanctis argued that Emile Zola \"brought the concepts of natural selection, struggle for existence, adaptation and environment to bear in his novels\".\n\nModern Darwinian literary studies arose in part as a result of its proponents' dissatisfaction with the poststructuralist and postmodernist philosophies that had come to dominate literary study during the 1970s and 1980s. In particular, the Darwinists took issue with the argument that discourse constructs reality. The Darwinists argue that biologically grounded dispositions constrain and inform discourse. This argument runs counter to what evolutionary psychologists assert is the central idea in the \"Standard Social Science Model\": that culture wholly constitutes human values and behaviors.\n\nLiterary Darwinists use concepts from evolutionary biology and the evolutionary human sciences to formulate principles of literary theory and interpret literary texts. They investigate interactions between human nature and the forms of cultural imagination, including literature and its oral antecedents. By \"human nature\", they mean a pan-human, genetically transmitted set of dispositions: motives, emotions, features of personality, and forms of cognition. Because the Darwinists concentrate on relations between genetically transmitted dispositions and specific cultural configurations, they often describe their work as \"biocultural critique\".\n\nMany literary Darwinists aim not just at creating another \"approach\" or \"movement\" in literary theory; they aim at fundamentally altering the paradigm within which literary study is now conducted. They want to establish a new alignment among the disciplines and ultimately to encompass all other possible approaches to literary study. They rally to Edward O. Wilson's cry for \"consilience\" among all the branches of learning. Like Wilson, they envision nature as an integrated set of elements and forces extending in an unbroken chain of material causation from the lowest level of subatomic particles to the highest levels of cultural imagination. And like Wilson, they regard evolutionary biology as the pivotal discipline uniting the hard sciences with the social sciences and the humanities. They believe that humans have evolved in an adaptive relation to their environment. They argue that for humans, as for all other species, evolution has shaped the anatomical, physiological, and neurological characteristics of the species, and they think that human behavior, feeling, and thought are fundamentally shaped by those characteristics. They make it their business to consult evolutionary biology and evolutionary social science in order to determine what those characteristics are, and they bring that information to bear on their understanding of the products of the human imagination.\n\nEvolutionary literary criticism of a minimalist kind consists in identifying basic, common human needs—survival, sex, and status, for instance—and using those categories to describe the behavior of characters depicted in literary texts. Others pose for themselves a form of criticism involving an overarching interpretive challenge: to construct continuous explanatory sequences linking the highest level of causal evolutionary explanation to the most particular effects in individual works of literature. Within evolutionary biology, the highest level of causal explanation involves adaptation by means of natural selection. Starting from the premise that the human mind has evolved in an adaptive relation to its environment, literary Darwinists undertake to characterize the phenomenal qualities of a literary work (tone, style, theme, and formal organization), locate the work in a cultural context, explain that cultural context as a particular organization of the elements of human nature within a specific set of environmental conditions (including cultural traditions), identify an implied author and an implied reader, examine the responses of actual readers (for instance, other literary critics), describe the socio-cultural, political, and psychological functions the work fulfills, locate those functions in relation to the evolved needs of human nature, and link the work comparatively with other artistic works, using a taxonomy of themes, formal elements, affective elements, and functions derived from a comprehensive model of human nature.\n\nContributors to evolutionary studies in literature have included humanists, biologists, and social scientists. Some of the biologists and social scientists have adopted primarily discursive methods for discussing literary subjects, and some of the humanists have adopted the empirical, quantitative methods typical of research in the sciences. Literary scholars and scientists have also collaborated in research that combines the methods typical of work in the humanities with methods typical of work in the sciences.\n\nThe most hotly debated issue in evolutionary literary study concerns the adaptive functions of literature and other arts—whether there are any adaptive functions, and if so, what they might be. Proposed functions include transmitting information, including about kin relations, and by providing the audience with a model and rehearsal for how to behave in similar situations that may arise in the future. Steven Pinker (\"How the Mind Works\", 1997) suggests that aesthetic responsiveness is merely a side effect of cognitive powers that evolved to fulfill more practical functions, but Pinker also suggests that narratives can provide information for adaptively relevant problems. Geoffrey Miller (\"The Mating Mind\", 2000) argues that artistic productions in the ancestral environment served as forms of sexual display in order to demonstrate fitness and attract mates, similarly to the function of the peacock's tail. Brian Boyd (\"On the Origin of Stories\", 2009) argues that the arts are forms of cognitive \"play\" that enhance pattern recognition. In company with Ellen Dissanayake (\"Art and Intimacy\", 2000), Boyd also argues that the arts provide means of creating shared social identity and help create and maintain human bonding. Dissanayake, Joseph Carroll (\"Literary Darwinism\" 2004), and Denis Dutton (\"The Art Instinct\", 2009) all argue that the arts help organize the human mind by giving emotionally and aesthetically modulated models of reality. By participating in the simulated life of other people one gains a greater understanding of the motivations of oneself and other people. The idea that the arts function as means of psychological organization subsumes the ideas that the arts provide adaptively relevant information, enable us to consider alternative behavioral scenarios, enhance pattern recognition, and serve as means for creating shared social identity. And of course, the arts can be used for sexual display. In that respect, the arts are like most other human products—clothing, jewelry, shelter, means of transportation, etc. The hypothesis that the arts help organize the mind is not incompatible with the hypothesis of sexual display, but it subordinates sexual display to a more primary adaptive function.\n\nSome Darwinists have proposed explanations for formal literary features, including genres. Poetic meter has been attributed to a biologically based three-second metric. Gender preferences for pornography and romance novels have been explained by sexual selection. Different genres have been conjectured to correspond to different basic emotions: tragedy corresponding to sadness, fear, and anger; comedy to joy and surprise; and satire to anger, disgust, and contempt. Tragedy has also been associated with status conflict and comedy with mate selection. The satiric dystopian novel has been explained by contrasting universal human needs and oppressive state organization.\n\n\"Cosmic evolutionism and evolutionary analogism:\" Literary Theorists who would call themselves \"literary Darwinists\" or claim some close alignment with the literary Darwinists share one central idea: that the adapted mind produces literature and that literature reflects the structure and character of the adapted mind. There are at least two other ways of integrating evolution into literary theory: cosmic evolutionism and evolutionary analogism. Cosmic evolutionists identify some universal process of development or progress and identify literary structures as microcosmic versions of that process. Proponents of cosmic evolution include Frederick Turner, Alex Argyros, and Richard Cureton. Evolutionary analogists take the process of Darwinian evolution—blind variation and selective retention—as a widely applicable model for all development. The psychologist Donald Campbell advances the idea that all intellectual creativity can be conceived as a form of random variation and selective retention. Rabkin and Simon offer an instance in literary study. They argue that cultural creations \"evolve in the same way as do biological organisms, that is, as complex adaptive systems that succeed or fail according to their fitness to their environment.\" Other critics or theorists who have some affiliation with evolutionary biology but who would not identify themselves as literary Darwinists include William Benzon (\"Beethoven's Anvil\") and William Flesch (\"Comeuppance\").\n\n\"Cognitive rhetoric:\" Practitioners of \"cognitive rhetoric\" or cognitive poetics affiliate themselves with certain language-centered areas of cognitive psychology. The chief theorists in this school argue that language is based in metaphors, and they claim that metaphors are themselves rooted in biology or the body, but they do not argue that human nature consists in a highly structured set of motivational and cognitive dispositions that have evolved through an adaptive process regulated by natural selection. Cognitive rhetoricians are generally more anxious than literary Darwinists to associate themselves with postmodern theories of \"discourse,\" but some cognitive rhetoricians make gestures toward evolutionary psychology, and some critics closely affiliated with evolutionary psychology have found common ground with the cognitive rhetoricians. The seminal authorities in cognitive rhetoric are the language philosophers Mark Johnson and George Lakoff. The most prominent literary theorist in the field is Mark Turner. Other literary scholars associated with cognitive rhetoric include Mary Thomas Crane, F. Elizabeth Hart, Tony Jackson, Alan Richardson, Ellen Spolsky, Francis Steen, and Lisa Zunshine.\n\nSome of the commentaries included in the special double issue of \"Style\" are critical of literary Darwinism. Other critical commentaries include those of William Benzon, \"Signposts for a Naturalist Criticism,\" (\"Entelechy: Mind & Culture,\" Fall 2005/Winter 2006); William Deresiewicz, \"Adaptation: On Literary Darwinism,\" \"The Nation\" June 8, 2009: 26-31; William Flesch, \"Comeuppance: Costly Signaling, Altruistic Punishment, and Other Biological Components of Fiction\", (Cambridge: Harvard UP, 2008); Eugene Goodheart, \"Darwinian Misadventures in the Humanities\", (New Brunswick: NJ: Transaction, 2007); Jonathan Kramnick, \"Against Literary Darwinism,\" in \"Critical Inquiry\", Winter 2011; \"Debating Literary Darwinism,\" a set of responses to Jonathan Kramnick's essay, along with Kramnick's rejoinder, in \"Critical Inquiry\", Winter 2012; Alan Richardson, \"Studies in Literature and Cognition: A Field Map,\" in \"The Work of Fiction: Cognition, Culture, and Complexity\", ed. Alan Richardson and Ellen Spolsky (Burlington, VT: Ashgate, 2004 1-29); and Lisa Zunshine, \"What is Cognitive Cultural Studies?,\" in \"Introduction to Cognitive Cultural Studies\" (Johns Hopkins UP, 2010 1-33). Goodheart and Deresiewicz, adopting a traditional humanist perspective, reject efforts to ground literary study in biology. Richardson disavows the Darwinists' tendency to attack poststructuralism. Richardson and Benzon both align themselves with cognitive science and distinguish that alignment from an alignment with evolutionary psychology. Flesch makes use of evolutionary research on game theory, costly signaling, and altruistic punishment but, like Stephen Jay Gould, professes himself hostile to evolutionary psychology. For a commentary that is sympathetic to evolutionary psychology but skeptical about the possibilities of using it for literary study, see Steven Pinker, \"Toward a Consilient Study of Literature,\" a review of \"The Literary Animal\", \"Philosophy and Literature\" 31 (2007): 162-178.David Fishelov has argued that the attempt to link Darwinism to literary studies has failed \"to produce compelling evidence to support some of its basic assumptions (notably that literature is an adaptation)\" and has called on literary scholars to be more conceptually rigorous when they pursue \"empirical research into different aspects of literary evolution.\" \n\n\nIn addition to books oriented specifically to literature, this list includes books on cinema and books by authors who propound theories like those of the literary Darwinists but discuss the arts in general.\n\n\n\"Edited collections:\" The volume edited by Boyd, Carroll, and Gottschall (2010) is an anthology, that is, a selection of essays and book excerpts, most of which had been previously published. Collections of essays that had not, for the most part, been previously published include those edited by Cooke and Turner (1999); Gottschall and Wilson (2005); Headlam Wells and McFadden (2006); Martindale, Locher, and Petrov (2007); Gansel and Vanderbeke;and Hoeg and Larsen (2009).\n\n\"Journals:\" Much evolutionary literary criticism has been published in the journal Philosophy and Literature. The journal \"Style\" has also been an important venue for the Darwinists. Social science journals that have published research on the arts include \"Evolution and Human Behavior\", \"Evolutionary Psychology\", and \"Human Nature\". The first issue of an annual volume \"The Evolutionary Review: Art, Science, Culture\" appeared in 2010; the journal ceased publication in 2013. The first issue of a semi-annual journal \"Evolutionary Studies in Imaginative Culture\" appeared in spring of 2017.\n\n\"Symposia:\" A special double-issue of the journal \"Style\" (vol. 42, numbers 2/3, summer/fall 2008) was devoted to evolutionary literary theory and criticism, with a target article by Joseph Carroll (\"An Evolutionary Paradigm for Literary Study\"), responses by 35 scholars and scientists, and a rejoinder by Carroll. \"Also\", a special evolutionary issue of the journal \"Politics and Culture\" contains 32 essays, including contributions to a symposium on the question \"How is culture biological?\", which includes six primary essays along with responses and rejoinders.\n\n\"Discussion groups:\" Online forums for news and discussion include the Biopoetics listserv, the Facebook group for Evolutionary Narratology, and the Facebook homepage for \"The Evolutionary Review.\" Researchers with similar interests can also be located on \"Academia.edu\" by searching for people who have a research interest in \"Evolutionary Literary Criticism and Theory / Biopoetics\" or in Literary Darwinism or Evolutionary Literary Theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "34357524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34357524", "title": "Donald Phillip Verene", "text": "Donald Phillip Verene\n\nDonald Phillip Verene (born October 24, 1937) is an American philosophy professor and author. He is the Charles Howard Chandler Professor of Metaphysics and Moral Philosophy at Emory University.\n\nDonald Verene was born in Galesburg, Illinois. He studied at Knox College in his hometown, receiving his bachelor's degree in 1959. He earned his doctorate in philosophy at Washington University in 1964.\n\nVerene is married to Molly Black Verene. Their son Chris Verene is a photographer.\n\nVerene is a lecturing academic at Emory University. He was Editor of \"Philosophy and Rhetoric\" from 1976 to 1987. From 1982 to 1988, he was the Chair of Emory's Department of Philosophy.\n\nConsidered a worldwide authority on Giambattista Vico, he leads Emory's Center for Vico Studies. His wife, Molly Black Verene, serves as Assistant Director of the Center.\n\nHe also serves on the Board of Visitors for Ralston College, a start-up liberal arts college in Savannah, Georgia.\n\nVerene was a Visiting Fellow at Pembroke College, Oxford in 1988. He was a Visiting Scholar at \"La Sapienza\" University of Rome in 1996. He is also a Fellow of the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei.\n\nVerene is the author of \"Vico's Science of Imagination\" and \"Philosophy and the Return to Self-Knowledge\".\n\nOther publications written by Verene include:\n\n"}
{"id": "295571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295571", "title": "Eight Consciousnesses", "text": "Eight Consciousnesses\n\nThe Eight Consciousnesses (Skt. \"aṣṭa vijñānakāyāḥ\") is a classification developed in the tradition of the Yogācāra school of Mahayana Buddhism. They enumerate the five sense consciousnesses, supplemented by the mental consciousness (\"manovijñāna\"), the defiled mental consciousness (\"kliṣṭamanovijñāna\"), and finally the fundamental store-house consciousness (\"ālāyavijñāna\"), which is the basis of the other seven. This eighth consciousness is said to store the impressions (\"vāsanāḥ\") of previous experiences, which form the seeds (\"bīja\") of future karma in this life and in the next after rebirth.\n\nAll surviving schools of Buddhist thought accept – \"in common\" – the existence of the first six primary consciousnesses (Sanskrit: ', ). The internally coherent school associated with Maitreya, Asaṅga, and Vasubandhu, however, uniquely – or \"uncommonly\" – also posits the existence of two additional primary consciousnesses, \"kliṣṭamanovijñāna\" and ', in order to explain the workings of \"karma\". The first six of these primary consciousnesses comprise the five sensory faculties together with mental consciousness, which is counted as the sixth. According to Gareth Sparham, The ' doctrine arose on the Indian subcontinent about one thousand years before Tsong kha pa. It gained its place in a distinctly system over a period of some three hundred years stretching from 100 to 400 , culminating in the ', a short text by Asaṅga (circa 350), setting out a systematic presentation of the ' doctrine developed over the previous centuries. It is the doctrine found in this text in particular that Tsong kha pa, in his \"Ocean of Eloquence\", treats as having been revealed in toto by the Buddha and transmitted to suffering humanity through the founding saints (Tib. \"shing rta srol byed\"): Maitreya<nowiki>[-nātha]</nowiki>, Asaṅga, and Vasubandhu.While some noteworthy modern scholars of the Gelug tradition (which was founded by Tsongkhapa's reforms to Atisha's Kadam school) assert that the ' is posited only in the Yogācāra philosophical tenet system, all non-Gelug schools of Tibetan buddhism maintain that the ' is accepted by the various Madhyamaka schools, as well. The eightfold network of primary consciousnesses – ' in Sanskrit (from compounding ', \"eight\", with ', the plural of \"vijñāna\" \"consciousnesses\"), or  –  is roughly sketched out in the following table.\n\nThe first five sense-consciousnesses along with the sixth consciousness are identified in the Suttapiṭaka, especially the Salayatanavagga subsection of the Saṃyuttanikāya:\nAlso, the early Buddhist texts speak of anusayā (Sanskrit: anuśayāḥ), the “underlying tendencies” or “latent dispositions” which keep beings caught in the circle of samsara. These potential tendencies are generally seen as unconscious processes which \"lie beneath\" our everyday consciousness, and according to Waldron \"they represent the potential, the tendency, for cognitive and emotional afflictions (Pali: \"kilesā\", Sanskrit: \"kleśāḥ\") to arise\".\n\nThe Sautrāntika school of Buddhism, which relied closely on the sutras, developed a theory of seeds (\"bīja\", 種子) in the mindstream (\"cittasaṃtāna\", 心相續, lit. \"mind-character-continuity\") to explain how karma and the latent dispositions continued throughout life and rebirth. This theory later developed into the alayavijñana view.\n\nThe Theravāda theory of the bhavaṅga may also be a forerunner of the ālāyavijñana theory. Vasubandhu cites the bhavaṅgavijñāna of the Sinhalese school (\"Tāmraparṇīyanikāya\") as a forerunner of the ālāyavijñāna. The Theravadin theory is also mentioned by Xuánzàng.\n\nThe texts of the Yogācāra school gives a detailed explanation of the workings of the mind and the way it constructs the reality we experience. It is \"meant to be an explanation of experience, rather than a system of ontology\". The theory of the ālāyavijñana and the other consciousnesses developed out of a need to work out various issues in Buddhist Abhidharma thought. According to Lambert Schmithausen, the first mention of the concept occurs in the Yogācārabhumiśāstra, which posits a basal consciousness that contains seeds for future cognitive processes. It is also described in the Saṃdhinirmocanasūtra and in the Mahāyānasaṃgraha of Asaṅga.\n\nVasubandhu is considered to be the systematizer of Yogācāra thought. Vasubandhu used the concept of the six consciousnesses, on which he elaborated in the \"Triṃśikaikākārikā\" (Treatise in Thirty Stanzas).\n\nAccording to the traditional interpretation, Vasubandhu states that there are eight consciousnesses (\"vijñānāni\", singular: \"vijñāna\"):\nAccording to Kalupahana, this classification of eight consciousnesses is based on a misunderstanding of Vasubandhu's Triṃśikaikākārikā by later adherents.\n\nThe ālayavijñāna (Japanese: 阿頼耶識 arayashiki), or the \"All-encompassing foundation consciousness\", forms the \"base-consciousness\" (\"mūlavijñāna\") or \"causal consciousness\". According to the traditional interpretation, the other seven consciousnesses are \"evolving\" or \"transforming\" consciousnesses originating in this base-consciousness. \nThe store-house consciousness accumulates all potential energy as seeds (\"bīja\") for the mental (\"nāma\") and physical (\"rūpa\") manifestation of one's existence (nāmarūpa). It is the storehouse-consciousness which induces rebirth, causing the origination of a new existence.\n\nThe ālayavijñāna is also described in the Saṃdhinirmocanasūtra as the \"mind which has all the seeds\" (\"sarvabījakam cittam\") which enters the womb and develops based on two forms of appropriation or attachment (\"upādāna\"); to the material sense faculties, and to predispositions (\"vāsanāḥ\") towards conceptual proliferations (\"prapañca\"). The Saṃdhinirmocanasūtra also defines it in varying ways:\n\n\"This consciousness is also called the appropriating consciousness (\"adana-vijñana\") because the body is grasped and appropriated by it.\"\n\n\"It is also called the \"alaya-vijñana\" because it dwells in and attaches to this body in a common destiny (\"ekayogakṣema-arthena\").\"\n\n\"It is also called mind (\"citta\") because it is heaped up and accumulated by [the six cognitive objects, i.e.:] visual forms, sounds, smells, flavors, tangibles and dharmas.\"\n\nIn a seemingly innovative move, the Saṃdhinirmocanasūtra states that the alayavijñana is always active subliminally and occurs simultaneously with, \"supported by and depending upon\" the six sense consciousnesses.\n\nAccording to Asanga's Mahāyānasaṃgraha, the alayavijñana is taught by other Buddhist schools by different names. He states that the alaya is what the Mahasamghikas call the “root-consciousness” (\"mulavijñana\"), what the Mahīśāsakas call “the aggregate which lasts as long as samsara” (\"asaṃsārikaskandha\") and what the Sthaviras call the bhavaṅga.\n\nThe store-house consciousness receives impressions from all functions of the other consciousnesses, and retains them as potential energy, \"bīja\" or \"seeds\", for their further manifestations and activities. Since it serves as the container for all experiential impressions it is also called the \"seed consciousness\" (種子識) or container consciousness.\n\nAccording to Yogācāra teachings, the seeds stored in the store consciousness of sentient beings are not pure.\n\nThe store consciousness, while being originally immaculate in itself, contains a \"mysterious mixture of purity and defilement, good and evil\". Because of this mixture the transformation of consciousness from defilement to purity can take place and awakening is possible.\n\nThrough the process of purification the dharma practitioner can become an Arhat, when the four defilements of the mental functions of the manas-consciousness are purified. \n\nAccording to the Laṅkāvatārasūtra and the schools of Chan and Zen Buddhism, the ālāyavijñāna is identical with the \"tathāgatagarbha\", and is fundamentally pure.\n\nThe equation of ālāyavijñāna and tathāgatagarbha was contested. It was seen as \"something akin to the Hindu notions of \"ātman\" (permanent, invariant self) and \"\" (primordial substrative nature from which all mental, emotional and physical things evolve).\" According to Lusthaus, the critique led by the end of the eighth century to the rise of the logico-epistemic tradition of Yogācāra and a hybrid school combining \"Tathāgatagarbha\" thought with basic Yogācāra doctrines:\n\nThe traditional interpretation of the eight consciousnesses may be discarded on the ground of a reinterpretation of Vasubandhu's works. According to Kalupahana, instead of positing such an consciousnesses, the Triṃśikaikākārikā describes the \"transformations\" of this consciousness:\nThese transformations are threefold:\nThe first transformation results in the \"ālāya\":\nThe ālāyavijñāna therefore is not an eighth consciousness, but the resultant of the transformation of consciousness:\nThe second transformation is \"manana\", self-consciousness or \"Self-view, self-confusion, self-esteem and self-love\". According to the Lankavatara and later interpreters it is the seventh consciousness. It is \"thinking\" about the various perceptions occurring in the stream of consciousness\". The alaya is defiled by this self-interest;\nThe third transformation is \"viṣayavijñapti\", the \"\"concept\" of the object\". In this transformation the \"concept\" of objects is created. By creating these concepts human beings become \"susceptible to grasping after the object\":\nA similar perspective is give by Walpola Rahula. According to Walpola Rahula, all the elements of the Yogācāra storehouse-consciousness are already found in the Pāli Canon. He writes that the three layers of the mind (\"citta\", \"manas\", and \"vijñāna\") as presented by Asaṅga are also mentioned in the Pāli Canon:\n\nAccording to Thomas McEvilley, although Vasubandhu had postulated numerous ālāya-vijñāna-s, a separate one for each individual person in the parakalpita, this multiplicity was later eliminated in the Fa Hsiang and Huayan metaphysics. These schools inculcated instead the doctrine of a single universal and eternal ālaya-vijñāna. This exalted enstatement of the ālāyavijñāna is described in the Fa Hsiang as \"primordial unity\".\n\nThomas McEvilley further argues that the presentation of the three natures by Vasubandhu is consistent with the Neo-platonist views of Plotinus and his universal 'One', 'Mind', and 'Soul'.\n\nA core teaching of Chan/Zen Buddhism describes the transformation of the Eight Consciousnesses into the Four Wisdoms. In this teaching, Buddhist practice is to turn the light of awareness around, from misconceptions regarding the nature of reality as being external, to kenshō, \"directly see one's own nature\".. Thus the Eighth Consciousness is transformed into the Great Perfect Mirror Wisdom, the Seventh Consciousness into the Equality (Universal Nature) Wisdom, the Sixth Consciousness into the Profound Observing Wisdom, and First to Fifth Consciousnesses into the All Performing (Perfection of Action) Wisdom.\n\nThe Interpenetration (通達) and Essence-Function (體用) of Wonhyo (元曉) is described in the Treatise on Awakening Mahāyāna Faith (大乘起信論, \"Mahāyānaśraddhotpādaśāstra,\" AMF in the excerpt below):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9657106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9657106", "title": "Epistemological solipsism", "text": "Epistemological solipsism\n\nEpistemological solipsism is the view that one can only be sure of the existence of ones mind. The existence of other minds and the external world is not necessarily rejected but one can not be sure of its existence.\n\nEpistemological solipsists claim that realism begs the question: assuming there is a universe that is independent of the agent's mind, the agent can only ever know of this universe through the agent's senses. How is the existence of the independent universe to be scientifically studied? If a person sets up a camera to photograph the moon when they are not looking at it, then at best they determine that there is an image of the moon in the camera when they eventually look at it. Logically, this does not assure that the moon itself (or even the camera) existed at the time the photograph is supposed to have been taken. To establish that it is an image of an independent moon requires many other assumptions that amount to begging the question.\n\nThis relates to Kantian transcendental aspects of the world, in which a new factor can be included, once it is clear that the current axioms neither support nor refute it. The continuum hypothesis and the axiom of choice, are examples of possible transcendental decision points. Solipsism in its weak form is characterized by the repeated decision to not take transcendental steps, a logical minimalism. In its strong form, the denial of the existence of an argument for the existence of an independent universe may be justified in principle in an empirical manner. Whether the nonexistence of a proof means the nonexistence of the entity is a transcendental choice.\n\n"}
{"id": "25584226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25584226", "title": "François Jullien", "text": "François Jullien\n\nFrançois Jullien (born 2 June 1951 in Embrun, France) is a French philosopher, Hellenist, and sinologist.\n\nAn alumnus of the École Normale Supérieure (Paris) and holder (since 1974) of the \"agrégation\", France's professorial degree, François Jullien studied Chinese language and thought at Peking University and Shanghai University from 1975 to 1977. He received his French university doctorate (\"doctorat de troisième\" cycle) in 1978 and his French research doctorate (\"doctorat d'État\") in Far East studies in 1983.\n\nSince then Jullien has been head of the Antenne Française de Sinologie in Hong Kong (1978–1981), a guest of the Maison Franco-Japonaise in Tokyo (1985–1987), president of the Association Française d'Etudes Chinoises (1988–1990), director of the East Asia department (UFR) of Paris Diderot University–Paris VII (1990–2000), president of the Collège International de Philosophie (1995–1998), professor at Paris Diderot University, and director of both the Institut de la Pensée Contemporaine and the Centre Marcel-Granet.\n\nHe was a senior member of the Institut Universitaire de France from 2001 to 2011 and is the current Chair of Alterity at the Fondation Maison des Sciences de l'Homme (Paris).\n\nJullien has edited several anthologies for the Presses Universitaires de France (PUF) and for the Agenda de la Pensée Contemporaine, the latter published first by PUF, then by Éditions Hermann.\nSeveral conferences dealing with his philosophy have been held in France and abroad (Germany, Argentina, China, Vietnam). Among the most recent are:\n\n\nJullien received the Hannah Arendt Prize for Political Thought in Germany in 2010 and the Grand Prix de Philosophie of the Académie Française for his body of work in 2011.\n\nMarcel Gauchet has summed up François Jullien's work in the following terms: \"The work of François Jullien seems to me to follow the grand lines of the unwritten but oh-so-influential program of what I shall call the twentieth-century anthropological school. Primarily but not exclusively French, this school came to fruition in the work of Durkheim, Mauss, Granet, Lévi-Strauss, and a few others as well. It is, in a word, the school of Western decentralization. [...] These various undertakings have made it possible for us to conceive of an \"outside\" [\"dehors\"], to borrow a particularly felicitous term from François Jullien. [ ... ] But François Jullien is not content to contribute to this most difficult of enterprises. He has brought the decentralization to its fulfilment, for he has turned it back on the West. In particular, he has done this in the field of philosophy, something no one had ever done before, and by taking on China's alterity, which, it must be said, provided a privileged standpoint. He has thus carried decentralization further than his predecessors. He has shown us how to look from 'elsewhere' at our most theoretical and abstract thought, dealing with the fundamental categories that allow us to apprehend any object spontaneously. He has become the ethnologist of our conceptual universe.\"\n\nWhen Jullien was awarded the Grand Prix de Philosophie of the Académie Française (2011), Angelo Rinaldi presented his work as follows: \"The variety of subjects this philosopher-sinologist has taken on could lead one to imagine a scattershot oeuvre. On the contrary, there is in François Jullien's work a strong unity of thought and a clear progression. Pierre Nora sums it up in a phrase: the thought that lies between China and Greece. The purpose, indeed, is to consider the unthought-of in our thought, which has arisen on the foundations laid by Greece. To this end, China offers an oblique way in, a chance to redirect our gaze upon ourselves and see ourselves from without. The priority for François Jullien is to constitute this exteriority, and the remainder of his work consists of a reevaluation of the foundations of European thought. Awaiting us at the far end of this road are the general questions that interest us all directly: does 'the universal' exist, what might we hold in 'common,' what is the meaning of 'unity,' 'difference,' or 'conformity'? What we now call the 'dialogue of cultures' is clearly at the center of this philosopher's concerns, and it is this ever-present theme that makes him relevant for us today.\"\n\nFrançois Jullien is among the most translated of contemporary thinkers, with works appearing in some twenty-five countries. More than twenty of his essays have been translated into German, Italian, and Spanish, and a dozen have been translated into English, Chinese, Vietnamese, and Portuguese.\n\nSince first establishing what he refers to as his philosophical construction yard (\"chantier\") to explore the \"écart\" between Chinese and European thought François Jullien has been organizing a vis-à-vis between cultures, rather than comparing them, so as to map out a common field for reflection. His work has led him to examine such various disciplines as ethics, aesthetics, strategy, and the systems of thought (\"pensées\") of both History and nature. The aim of this \"deconstruction\" from without (\"du déhors\") is to detect buried biases, in both cultures, as well as to elucidate the unthought-of (\"l'impensé\") in our thought. It serves also to bring out the resources (\"ressources\") or fecundities (\"fécondités\") of languages and cultures, rather than consider them from the perspective of their \"difference\" or \"identity.\" Moreover, it launches philosophy anew by extricating it from the bog of its atavisms and purging it of facile notions (\"évidences\").\nThe enterprise has not failed to raise hackles in both philosophical and Orientalist circles. Jullien has argued in response that the way to produce the common (\"produire du commun\") is to put \"écarts\" to work. Because they establish distance, \"écarts\" bring out \"\"the between\" (\"l'entre\"\") and put our reflection into tension. \"The similar\" (\"le semblable\"), on the other hand, produces only what is uniform, which we then mistake for \"universals.\"\nWithin this construction yard between the languages and systems of thought of China and Europe, Jullien has since developed a philosophy of \"living\" (\"philosophie du \"vivre\"\"). This marks a departure from Being, the major bias of Greek philosophy. The result is a general philosophy that unfolds (\"se déploie\") as a philosophy of existence. Some of Jullien's recent developments in this area include reflections on intimacy (\"l'intime\") and \"landscape\" (\"paysage\").\nFor a survey of Jullien's work, see \"De l'Être au vivre, lexique euro-chinois de la pensée\", Gallimard, 2015.\nThe readership for Jullien's work has been expanding of late beyond the disciplines of Orientalism and philosophy.\nThe world of management has begun to adopt such concepts as situational potential (\"potentiel de situation\"), as opposed to \"plans of action\"; maturation (of conditions), as opposed to projected modelizations; and the initiation of silent transformations (\"transformations silencieuses\"), to induce change rather than impose it.\nCf. \"A Treatise on Efficacy\", 2004; \"Conférence sur l'efficacité\", 2005.\nThe world of psychology and analysis has begun to adopt the concept of \"silent transformation\" (cf. \"The Silent Transformations\", 2011); the distinction between the word and speech (cf. \"Si parler va sans dire\", 2006); and the concepts of the allusive (\"l'allusif\"), availability (\"la disponibilité\"), indirectness (\"le biais\"), and obliquity (\"l'obliquité\") (cf. \"Cinq concepts proposés à la psychanalyse\", 2012).\nThe art world has begun to adopt the concepts of silent transformation; of the \"great image\" (\"The great image has no form\"); of soaring (\"l'essor\") and slackness (\"l'étale\") (slackness is what is determined, what has completely come to pass, and has therefore lost its effect; soaring is the upstream of the effect, when the effect is still occurring, still at work, and has not yet gone slack); of the frontal and the oblique (evocation, being oblique, might be preferable to representation, which is frontal: \"paint the clouds so as to evoke the moon\"); of coherence, as opposed to sense (if a work does not deliver a \"sense,\" then is it not co-herence that confers the work's con-sistency, that makes it \"hold together\" as a work?); of the evasive, as opposed to the assignable); of the allusive, as opposed to the symbolic. The art world has also begun to adopt the concepts of the \"écart\" and the between (\"l'entre\"). Because it is based on distinction, difference specifies an essence and stores it away as knowledge. An \"écart\", however, establishes a distance and thus maintains a tension between the things it separates. Even while producing its disturbance, the \"écart\" brings forth a between, precisely because of the distance established. If the \"between\" is the thing of which ontology cannot conceive—because it has no in-itself: i.e., no essence—it is also the space through which [the thing] passes, or occurs: the space of the operatory and the effective.\nCf. \"In Praise of Blandness\", 1997; \"The Impossible Nude\", 2007; \"The Great Image Has No Form\", 2012; \"This Strange Idea of the Beautiful\", 2016.\n\nTranslated into English :\n\nCurrently being translated :\n\n\nIn French :\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrançois Jullien's work has been criticized by certain sinologists, chief among them Jean-François Billeter. The two principal texts published by Billeter against Jullien and his method are:\n\nFrançois Jullien's reply to the charge that he portrays China as \"an alterity\" appears in \"Chemin faisant, Connaître la Chine, relancer la philosophie\". There he argues that the unreferenced quotations used by Jean-François Billeter are fabrications and that Billeter attempts to construct an imaginary version of François Jullien's work to argue against. The crux of the matter for Jullien is that \"exteriority\" and \"alterity\" are not to be conflated. China's exteriority, Jullien's point of departure, is, he argues, evident in its language as well as in its history, whereas alterity must be constructed and, as \"internal heterotopia\", is to be found in both Europe and China. Rather than relegate China to a separate, isolated world, Jullien claims to weave a problematics between China and Europe, a net that can then fish out an \"unthought-of\" (\"un impensé\") and help create the conditions for a new \"reflexivity\" (\"réflexivité\") between the two cultures.\n\nJullien has dealt with the question of criticizing Chinese ideology several times in his work: \"La Propension des choses\", chapter II; \"Le Détour et l'accès\", chapters I to VI; \"Un sage est sans idée\", final pages; etc. He thus separates himself from those who, out of fascination with strangeness or exoticism, have upheld the image of China as an \"other.\" He separates himself also from those who, like Jean-François Billeter, permit themselves to dip into a \"common fund\" of thought and thus miss a chance to benefit from the diversity of human thought, which for Jullien is its true resource. He argues that we must reject both facile universalism (which springs from ethnocentrism) and lazy relativism (which leads to culturalism) in favor of a \"dia-logue\" of the two cultures: the \"dia\" of the \"écart\", which reveals the fecundity of multiple lines of thought, and the \"logos,\" which allows these lines to communicate through a common intelligence.\n\nFor a collective reply to the criticism of Jean-François Billeter, see \"Oser construire, Pour François Jullien\", with notable contributions from Philippe d'Iribarne, Jean Allouche, Jean-Marie Schaeffer, Wolfgang Kubin, Du Xiaozhen, Léon Vandermeersch, Bruno Latour, Paul Ricœur, and Alain Badiou.\n"}
{"id": "41325009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41325009", "title": "Fuad Gasimzade", "text": "Fuad Gasimzade\n\nFuad Gasimzade is an Azerbaijani philosopher and academician. His main area of research area was Azerbaijani philosophic public opinion, social philosophy, ontology, epistemology and aesthetics.\n\nHis doctoral thesis was titled \"Fizuli’s outlook”. His monograph \"Caravan of sorrow\" or \"Light in the darkness\" was printed in 1968. He wrote more than 20 scientific articles about Fizuli.\n\nFuad Gasimzade wrote the book titled “Sport, beauty and aesthetics”. It was printed in 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27064552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27064552", "title": "God's Philosophers", "text": "God's Philosophers\n\nGod's Philosophers: How the Medieval World Laid the Foundations of Modern Science is a book by James Hannam which rebuts \"the idea ‘that there was no science worth mentioning in the Middle Ages … [and] that the Church held back what meagre advances were made’.\"\nHannam argues that \"medieval scholars overturned the false wisdom of ancient Greece to lay the foundations of modern science.\" The book rebuts a number of modern canards about Medieval Christianity, such as:\nHe lists 13th century inventions such as spectacles, the mechanical clock, and the windmill.\n\nThe book was published in the UK in 2009 by Icon Books Ltd. () and is included in the short list for the Royal Society Prize for Science Books in 2010. The US edition was published in 2011 by Regnery Press under the title The Genesis of Science: How the Christian Middle Ages Launched the Scientific Revolution. In 2011 the book was shortlisted for the Dingle Prize of the British Society for the History of Science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15375136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15375136", "title": "Group on International Perspectives on Governmental Aggression and Peace", "text": "Group on International Perspectives on Governmental Aggression and Peace\n\nThe Group on International Perspectives on Governmental Aggression and Peace (GIPGAP) is an international multi-disciplinary team of academics and researchers. The group has been undertaking extensive research into social attitudes to peace and war, using the Personal and Institutional Rights to Aggression and Peace Scale, or PAIRTAPS. There is no shortage of critical literature on peace and war. However this is the first-ever global study of the attitudes of ordinary citizens to peace and war. GIPGAP is co-ordinated by Kathleen Malley-Morrison of Boston University, and has its origins in an earlier group that investigated domestic violence within a project entitled International Perspectives on Family Violence and Abuse. The GIPGAP project involves surveying and analysis of the views of citizens from more than 30 countries —covering North America, South America, Central America, Western Europe, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Asia Pacific, South Asia, Australia, and the Pacific Islands.\n\nThe GIPGAP website indicates the membership as follows:\nThe basic research instrument, the Personal and Institutional Rights to Aggression and Peace Scale, is an online survey, utilizing aspects of both qualitative research and quantitative research. Respondents are encouraged to indicate the degree to which they agree or disagree with certain propositions and the instrument also encourages respondents to make specific comment upon issues. The survey is available to respondents in a range of language versions, including English, French, German, Greek, Icelandic, Italian, Japanese, and Portuguese.\n\nPreliminary findings for individual countries can be found in the publications list and especially the 4-volume publication in 2009 by Praeger International. In general, there was disapproval for the notion that nations should have a right to invade other nations, disapproval for the use of torture, disapproval for the killing of civilians, approval for the right to protest war, and tentative approval for the notion of a right to peace. Women were very much in support of the notion of the right of children to grow up in a world of peace. Further research, analysis and scholarly publication is planned for the future.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "413483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413483", "title": "Henrik Steffens", "text": "Henrik Steffens\n\nHenrik Steffens (2 May 1773 – 13 February 1845), was a Norwegian-born Danish philosopher, scientist, and poet.\n\nHe was born at Stavanger, Norway. At the age of fourteen he went with his parents to Copenhagen, where he studied theology and natural science. In 1796 he lectured at the University of Kiel, and two years later went to the University of Jena to study the natural philosophy of Friedrich Schelling. He went to Freiberg in 1800, and there came under the influence of Abraham Gottlob Werner.\n\nAfter two years he returned to Copenhagen, and is said to have introduced German romanticism to Denmark in 1802 with nine lectures given at Elers Kollegium, later published as \"Indledning til philosophiske Forelæsninger\" (\"Introduction to Philosophical Lectures\"). These lectures were a great success and a source of inspiration in Danish romanticism. They were attended by many who later became leading Danish thinkers, such as Oehlenschläger and Grundtvig. Friedrich Schleiermacher was so much struck by their excellence that he endeavoured, unsuccessfully, to obtain for Steffens a chair in the new Berlin University in 1804, in order that his own ethical teachings should be supported in the scientific department.\n\nDespite – or perhaps because of – the deep impact made by his lectures, Steffens was not made welcome by the Danish authorities. He moved back to Germany and took up a professorship at the University of Halle in 1804, to return to Denmark only occasionally. During the Battle of Leipzig (1813) he enlisted in the Prussian Army as a second lieutenant, and he was present at the capture of Paris the following year. He was professor of physics at Breslau from 1811 until 1832, when he accepted an invitation to Berlin.\n\nSteffens was one of the so-called \"Philosophers of Nature\", a friend and adherent of Schelling and of Schleiermacher. More than either of these two thinkers he was acquainted with the discoveries of modern science, and was thus able to correct or modify the highly imaginative speculations of Schelling. He held that, throughout the scheme of nature and intellectual life, the main principle is Individualisation. As organisms rise higher in the scale of development, the sharper and more distinct become their outlines, the more definite their individualities. This principle he endeavoured to deduce from his knowledge of geology, in contrast to Lorenz Oken, who developed the same theory on biological grounds. His influence was considerable, and both Schelling and Schleiermacher modified their theories in deference to his scientific deductions.\n\nHis chief scientific and philosophical works are:\n\nDuring the last five years of his life he wrote an autobiography, \"Was ich erlebte\", and after his death his \"Nachgelassene Schriften\" (1846) was published. See Tietzen, \"Zur Erinnerung an Steffens\"; Petersen, \"Henrik Steffens\" (German translation, 1884); Dilthey, \"Leben Schleiermachers\".\n\nThe Henrik Steffens Professor, a named chair at the Humboldt University of Berlin in the field of humanities and social sciences, is funded by the Government of Norway and administered jointly by the Humboldt University and the University of Oslo. The professorship was established in connection with the state visit of German President Roman Herzog in Norway in 1998, on the initiative of Lucy Smith, the Rector of the University of Oslo. The purpose of the professorship is to promote academic cooperation between Norway and Germany in the fields of humanities and social sciences, \"in the spirit of Henrik Steffens.\" It is one of the nine named chairs at the Humboldt University.\n\nThe professorship is hosted by the Department of Northern European Studies at the Humboldt University, which is located near Unter den Linden. The department also hosts the Dag Hammarskjöld Professorship, which is funded by the Swedish government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4639229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4639229", "title": "Ivan Aguéli", "text": "Ivan Aguéli\n\nIvan Aguéli (born \"John Gustaf Agelii\") (May 24, 1869 – October 1, 1917) also named Sheikh 'Abd al-Hādī 'Aqīlī () upon his conversion to Islam, was a Swedish wandering Sufi, painter and author. As a devotee of Ibn Arabi, his metaphysics applied to the study of Islamic esoterism and its similarities with other esoteric traditions of the world. He was the initiator of René Guénon into Sufism and founder of the Parisian \"Al Akbariyya\" society. His art was a unique form of miniature Post-Impressionism where he used the blend of colours to create a sense of depth and distance. His unique style of art made him one of the founders of the Swedish contemporary art movement.\n\nIvan Aguéli was born \"John Gustaf Agelii\" in the small Swedish town of Sala in 1869, the son of veterinarian \"Johan Gabriel Agelii\". Through his mother, he was related to the 18th century Swedish metaphysician Emanuel Swedenborg.\n\nBetween the years 1879–1889 Aguéli conducted his studies in Gotland and Stockholm. Early on in his youth he began showing an exceptional artistic talent and a keen interest in religious mysticism.\n\nIn 1889 he adopted the name Ivan Aguéli and travelled to Paris where he became the student of the Symbolist painter Émile Bernard. Before returning to Sweden in 1890 he made a detour to London, where he met the Russian anarchist scholar Prince Kropotkin.\n\nReturning to Stockholm in 1890 he attended art school in Stockholm where he was taught by the Swedish artists Anders Zorn and Richard Bergh. By the end of 1892 he again returned to Paris where he learnt to know the French poet and animal-rights activist Marie Huot (1846–1930). Active in French anarchist circles he was in 1894 arrested and put on trial in the \"Trial of the thirty\". Within months of his release in 1895 he left France for Egypt, where he lived until he returned to Paris in 1896. It was later on in Paris that Aguéli ended up converting to Islam and adopted the name \"'Abd al-Hadi\".\n\nIn 1899 he travelled to Colombo (in today's Sri Lanka), again returning to France in 1900.\n\nIn 1902 Aguéli moved to Cairo and became one of the first Western Europeans to be officially enrolled at Al-Azhar University, where he studied Arabic and Islamic philosophy. In 1902 he was also initiated into the al-'Arabiyya Shadhiliyya Sufi order by the great Egyptian Shaykh 'Abd al-Rahman Ilaysh al-Kabir (1840–1921).\n\nWith the blessing of Shaykh Ilaysh, Aguéli and an Italian journalist and fellow-convert named Enrico Insabato (1878–1963) founded and contributed to an Italian magazine published in Cairo (1904–1913) named Il Convito (Arabic: \"An-Nadi\").\n\nIvan Aguéli founded \"Al Akbariyya\" as a secret Sufi society in Paris in 1911. Among its first members was René Guénon. Its purpose was to promote the teachings of Muhyeddin Ibn al-Arabi among the \"scholarly, educated and freethinking classes...\" through the practice of the Shadhili and Malamati Sufi paths. The only time this society is mentioned is in a letter written by Aguéli in September 1911 to an unknown address in Cairo announcing its founding, not much more is known.\n\nSuspected to be an Ottoman spy he was expelled to Spain in 1916. Stranded in Spain, Aguéli lacked the funds to continue back to Sweden. In Spain, Aguéli was left without money to return to Sweden and on October 1, 1917 he was killed by a train at a rail crossing in the village of L'Hospitalet de Llobregat outside Barcelona.\n\nAfter Aguéli's death, Prince Eugen Bernadotte, who was known as a patron of artists, made certain to return his paintings and belongings to Sweden.\n\nIn Sweden, Aguéli is admired as a celebrated contemporary painter. Most of his paintings are found at the Swedish National Museum of Fine Arts, the Museum of Modern Art and the Aguéli Museum in Sala.\n\nAguélis prominence in Sweden was clearly shown in 1969 when, at the centenary of his birth, six of his paintings were printed as stamps by the Swedish Postal Service.\n\nAguéli's remains were kept in Barcelona, Spain until 1981, when he was brought back to Sweden and re-buried with Islamic rites in his hometown of Sala.\n\nThe Aguéli Museum in Sala has the largest collection of his artworks, donated by Sala's well-known physician Carl Friberg to Nationalmuseum.\n\nSwedish:\n\n\nEnglish:\n\nFrench:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36188507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36188507", "title": "Jing (philosophy)", "text": "Jing (philosophy)\n\nJing () is a concept in Chinese philosophy which is typically translated as \"reverence.\" It is often used by Confucius in the term \"gōngjìng\" (), meaning \"respectful reverence\". The Confucian notion of respect has been likened to the later, western Kantian notion. For Confucians, \"jìng\" requires \"yì\", or righteousness, and a proper observation of rituals (\"lǐ\"). To have \"jìng\" is vitally important in the maintenance of \"xiào\", or filial piety.\n"}
{"id": "25335057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25335057", "title": "Johann Adam Bergk", "text": "Johann Adam Bergk\n\nJohann Adam Bergk (1769 – 1834, Leipzig) was a German philosopher and publicist.\n\nBergk was professor of philosophy and jurisprudence at the University of Leipzig. A Kantian, he defended the French revolution in his \"Untersuchungen aus dem Natur-, Staats- und Völkerrechte\" (1796) and translated Beccaria into German.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic occupation of Saxony he frequently came into conflict with the French censorship, e.g. his journal \"Der europäische Aufseher\" (i.e. \"The European Guard\") was banned.\n\nHe was the father of the philologist Theodor Bergk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34125215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34125215", "title": "José Pablo Feinmann", "text": "José Pablo Feinmann\n\nJosé Pablo Feinmann (born 10 March 1943) is an Argentine philosopher, writer, playwright and TV host.\n\nBorn in a Jewish Argentine family, Feinmann was a militant of the Peronist Youth during the 1970s, considering peronism as a real mass movement with the potential to change the country for better. Nevertheless, he always opposed to the principle of armed violence to achieve political ends, and thus criticized the Foco theory of Che Guevara which, years after the Cuban Revolution, became popular in some sectors of the leftist peronism (Montoneros, Peronist Armed Forces). Feinmann abandoned peronism in the 1990s, during the right-wing neoliberal government of Carlos Menem. He later became a supporter of left-wing peronist president Cristina Fernandez.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4801076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4801076", "title": "Judicial deference", "text": "Judicial deference\n\nJudicial deference is the condition of a court yielding or submitting its judgment to that of another legitimate party, such as the executive branch in the case of national defense. It is most commonly found in countries, such as the United Kingdom, which lack an entrenched constitution, as the essential purpose of such documents is to limit the power of the legislature.\n\nIn \"Regina v. Director of Public Prosecutions Ex Parte Kebeline and Others\" [1999], Lord Hope explained that courts should \"defer, on democratic grounds, to the considered opinion of the elected body as to where the balance is to be struck between the rights of the individual and the needs of society\". Nevertheless, the doctrine has been criticised for representing a way in which the courts should act obediently to the British Parliament to uphold the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty.\n\nHowever, any suggestions that the House of Lords was being unduly servile to Parliament were overturned by \"A v Home Secretary\" [2005]. In the case, detainees imprisoned without charge under section 23 of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001, on the grounds that they posed a threat to national security, appealed successfully against their detention. The court held that the powers of detention without charge had discriminatory impact (Articles 5 and 14 of the Human Rights Act 1998).\n\nThere are some examples of judicial deference in the United States, despite its entrenched constitution. For example, in immigration law, the judiciary has historically sought to allow the explicit constitutional authority of the US Congress. An example is US Supreme Court decision \"Fiallo v. Bell\" (1977).\n\nThe same restraint is requested in foreign affairs as not-judicable matters, to safeguard the executive branch.\n\n"}
{"id": "1769189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1769189", "title": "Justice (virtue)", "text": "Justice (virtue)\n\nJustice is one of the four cardinal virtues in classical European philosophy and Roman Catholicism. It is the moderation or mean between selfishness and selflessness – between having more and having less than one's fair share.\n\nJustice is closely related, in Christianity, to the practice of Charity (virtue) because it regulates the relationships with others. It is a cardinal virtue, which is to say that it is \"pivotal\", because it regulates all such relationships, and is sometimes deemed the most important of the cardinal virtues.\n\nAccording to Aristotle, \"Justice consists in a certain equality by which the just and definite claim of another, neither more nor less, is satisfied.\"\n\nThis is equal insofar as each one receives what he is entitled to, but may be unequal insofar as different people may have different rights: two children have different rights from a certain adult if that adult is the parent of one of them and not of the other. Aristotle developed the idea of equity to cover irregular cases so that \"the ordinance is framed to fit the circumstances\".\n\nMacrobius saw Justice as existing on four different planes or levels, rising from the everyday political virtue at the lowest to the Archetypal Form of Justice at the highest.\n\nThe just man, often mentioned in the Sacred Scriptures, is distinguished by habitual right thinking and the uprightness of his conduct toward his neighbor. In Colossians 4:1 St. Paul counsels \"Masters, treat your slaves justly and fairly, realizing that you too have a Master in heaven.\" \nIn Christian moral theology, Justice is a quality or habit which perfects the will and inclines it to render to each and to all what belongs to them. The object of the virtue of justice is the other person's rights, whether natural or bestowed by Church or State. Justice requires that all persons should be left in the free enjoyment of all their rights. The rights which belong to every human being inasmuch as he is a person are absolute and inalienable.\n\nIn Aristotle's wake, Thomas Aquinas developed a theory of proportional reciprocity, whereby the just man renders to each and all what is due to them in due proportion: what it is their moral and legal rights to do, possess, or exact. Justice toward God is called the \"virtue of religion\".\n\nWith the late modern rise in interest in virtue ethics, a new interest in articulating the virtue of justice has emerged. John Rawls saw justice as the typical virtue of the institution; Irene van Staveren saw it as that of the state, marked by such indicators as votes, legitimacy, public fairness and distributive rules.\n\nMoral justice has been linked to the sixth and highest of Kohlberg's stages of moral development.\n\nFreudians consider that in the unconscious the image of the Father embodies a stern but fair justice; Jungians similarly see the archetype of the King as representing the right ordering of society.\n\nDante made Justice the virtue of his sixth heaven (the sphere of Jupiter), and illustrated it through such martial figures as Joshua and Roland.\n\nSir Philip Sydney wrote of \"justice the chief of virtues\"; Edmund Spenser devoted the fifth book of \"The Faerie Queene\" to the same theme.\n\nWallace Stevens rejected what he called \"galled Justicia/Trained to poise the tables of the law\" as part of the obsolete images of the past, and favoured instead the modernist seeking out of new ruling images – new \"sovereigns of the soul\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35642386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35642386", "title": "Katarina Majerhold", "text": "Katarina Majerhold\n\nKatarina Majerhold (born May 20th, 1971) is an acclaimed Slovenian philosopher, writer, screenwriter, lecturer and editor. She is particularly interested in philosophy of emotions, especially in philosophy of love and sexuality, happiness, philosophical counseling and ethics. She has been the only Slovenian philosopher who had her own philosophical counseling column in the magazine O osebnosti (2007-2010) and in the biggest Slovenian newspaper, online version Delo.si. She also wrote numerous articles on philosophical counseling. In 2017 she got certificate for philosophical counseling by acclaimed Canadian philosophical counselor and professor Peter Raabe. \n\nShe published her article History of Love in US Internet Philosophy Encyclopedia http://www.iep.utm.edu/love-his/. She has been a member of the US Society for the Philosophy of sex + love since 2000: https://philosophyofsexandlove.org/members/.\n\nMajerhold is currently an independent researcher and writer of philosophy, screenwriter and editor. She previously worked at the Slovenian Educational Research Institute where she held the rank of a young researcher/assistant and worked on higher education for many years. In that time she wrote and edited three important books on Slovenian higher education (University and Its Autonomy (1999), University and Its Power (2001), Does University Need Its Social Environment (2003) Ljubljana, Študentska založba). \n\nShe was editor-in chief of international scientific review Andragoška spoznanja (Andragogic Perspectives) (2008-2011), she was a member of the editorial board of the magazine Sodobnost (Contemporary) (2002-2012) and she has been an editorial board member of the international scientific magazine JKC (1998-).\n\nIn her early career as a philosopher of love she mostly worked on learning of the western concepts of love and which prevailing concept of love each period in history offered (Empedocles' Love (Eros) and Strife (Neikos), Plato's Eros and Aristotle's Philia, St. Paul's Agape and St. Augustine Caritas, Rousseau's notion of a modern romantic pair of Email and Sophie, Freud's love as transference and Nussbaum's compassionate, reciprocal, erotic and individual love). However, this does not mean that each representative concept of the period speaks of a totally new or innovative concept of love, many of them are interdependent and/or modification of the other. However, in the last few years she has started developing her own concept of love as an art work (i.e. installation), imagining love as innovative, democratic, individual, and common process at the same time.\n\nHer dedication to love is seen in numerous articles she wrote about the topic, such as love and happiness, love and gift, love and art, love and truth, love and politics, love: top-down or bottom-up and alike in the scholarly magazines at home and abroad. However, she did not write not only articles but also books on love, sexuality and emotions: Love in Philosophy(from Plato to Freud, Psihopolis, Novi Sad 2012), Living (Koda, Študentska založba, Ljubljana 2012), Love Through History (Mladinska knjiga, Ljubljana 2014), Love, Its Origin and Modifications Through Time (Založba Obzorja, Maribor, 2016), Čustveni izzivi (Rokus-Klett, Ljubljana, 2017). She wrote article The Gift in What Philosophy Can Tell You About Your Lover (Open Court, Chicago and LaSalle, Illinois, 2012).\n\nShe also does art, especially writing screenplays for documentaries and films through which she tries to convey her knowledge and experiences in the area of love, sexuality, happiness and play (she is the author of documentaries, such as Love; Emotions, fabrics of our lives; The Future of Clothing, Attraction of Gender 2008–2015, Radio-television Slovenia. She prepares her first film). \nShe has been writing reviews of LB-films and TV-and web series for LGBT-magazine and Blog Narobe since 2008. She occasionally writes about LGBT-films for Slovenian film magazines, such as Ekran and Kino! In 2018 she created her own website LL-Passion where she publishes philosophical essays, reviews of LB-films, TV- and web-series, she also publishes interviews with either LB-women (artists, editors, researchers, humanists) or women who work in the LGBT-area. She combined her work on LGBT-rights with Unesco OER chair at Institute Jožef Štefan in a project Unesco OER for vulnerable groups (2017-2018). She worked for Slovenian LGBT-organization (2016-2018).\n\nShe is all about philosophy with heart (love), humour and joy. Majerhold is also a humanitarian, and dedicates her time, knowledge and energy to people in need. She also fights for animal rights, she is a vegan, occasionally vegetarian. Her dedication to sustainable development and sustainable mobility is seen in her numerous articles at website Zeleni PR (Green PR). \n"}
{"id": "49977564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49977564", "title": "List of Indian yoga gurus", "text": "List of Indian yoga gurus\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "410591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410591", "title": "Maulana Karenga", "text": "Maulana Karenga\n\nMaulana Ndabezitha Karenga, previously known as Ron Karenga, (born July 14, 1941) is an African-American professor of Africana studies, activist and author, best known as the creator of the pan-African and African-American holiday of Kwanzaa. Karenga was active in the Black Power movement of the 1960s and 1970s, and co-founded with Hakim Jamal the black nationalism and social change organization US.\n\nBorn in Parsonsburg, Maryland to an African-American family, Karenga studied at Los Angeles City College and the University of California, Los Angeles. During his student years, he involved himself in activism and joined the Congress of Racial Equality. Through his activism, he became involved in violent clashes with the Black Panther Party. In 1971, he was convicted of felonious assault and false imprisonment. He was imprisoned in California Men's Colony until he received parole in 1974. He received his PhD shortly afterward and began a career in academia.\n\nRon Everett was born in Parsonsburg, Maryland, the fourteenth child and seventh son in the family. His father was a tenant farmer and Baptist minister who employed the family to work fields under an effective sharecropping arrangement. Everett moved to Los Angeles in 1959, joining his older brother who was a teacher there, and attended Los Angeles City College (LACC). He became active with civil rights organizations Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) and Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), took an interest in African studies, and was elected as LACC's first African-American student president. \n\nAfter earning his associate degree, he matriculated at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and earned BA and MA degrees in political science. He studied Swahili, Arabic and other African-related subjects. Among his influences at UCLA were Jamaican anthropologist and Negritudist Councill Taylor who contested the Eurocentric view of alien cultures as primitive. During this period he took the name \"Karenga\" (Swahili for \"keeper of tradition\") and the title \"Maulana\" (Swahili-Arabic for \"master teacher\").\n\nThe Watts riots broke out when Karenga was a year into his doctoral studies. Karenga and the Circle of Seven established a community organization in the aftermath called US (meaning \"Us black people\"). The organization joined in several community revival programs and was featured in press reports. Karenga cited Malcolm X's Afro-American Unity program as an influence on the US organization's work:\n\nMalcolm was the major African American thinker that influenced me in terms of nationalism and Pan-Africanism. As you know, towards the end, when Malcolm is expanding his concept of Islam, and of nationalism, he stresses Pan-Africanism in a particular way. And he argues that, and this is where we have the whole idea that cultural revolution and the need for revolution, he argues that we need a cultural revolution, he argues that we must return to Africa culturally and spiritually, even if we can’t go physically. And so that’s a tremendous impact on US.\n\nAs racial disturbances spread across the country, Karenga appeared at a series of black power conferences, joining other groups in urging the establishment of a separate political structure for African-Americans. US developed a youth component with para-military aspects called the Simba Wachanga which advocated and practiced community self-defense and service to the masses.\n\nIn 1966, Karenga founded the newspaper Harambee, which started as a newsletter for US and eventually became the newspaper for the Los Angeles Black Congress, an umbrella organization for several groups.\n\nKarenga created Kwanzaa in 1966 to be the first pan-African holiday. Karenga said his goal was to \"give Blacks an alternative to the existing holiday and give Blacks an opportunity to celebrate themselves and their history, rather than simply imitate the practice of the dominant society.\" \n\nKwanzaa is inspired by African \"first fruit\" traditions, and the name chosen is from Swahili, \"matunda ya kwanza.\" The rituals of the holiday promote African traditions and \"Nguzo Saba\", the \"seven principles of African Heritage\" that Karenga described as \"a communitarian African philosophy\":\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1971, Karenga was sentenced to one to ten years in prison on counts of felonious assault and imprisonment. One of the victims gave testimony of how Karenga and other men tortured her and another woman. The woman described having been stripped and beaten with an electrical cord. Karenga's estranged wife, Brenda Lorraine Karenga, testified that she sat on the other woman’s stomach while another man forced water into her mouth through a hose.\n\nA May 14, 1971, article in the \"Los Angeles Times\" described the testimony of one of the women:\n\nDeborah Jones, who once was given the Swahili title of an African queen, said she and Gail Davis were whipped with an electrical cord and beaten with a karate baton after being ordered to remove their clothes. She testified that a hot soldering iron was placed in Miss Davis' mouth and placed against Miss Davis' face and that one of her own big toes was tightened in a vise. Karenga, head of US, also put detergent and running hoses in their mouths, she said. They also were hit on the heads with toasters.\n\nJones and Brenda Karenga testified that Karenga believed the women were conspiring to poison him, which Davis has attributed to a combination of ongoing police pressure and his own drug abuse.\n\nKarenga denied any involvement in the torture, and argued that the prosecution was political in nature. He was imprisoned at the California Men's Colony, where he studied and wrote on feminism, Pan-Africanism and other subjects. The US organization fell into disarray during his absence and was disbanded in 1974. After he petitioned several black state officials to support his parole on fair sentencing grounds, it was granted in 1975.\n\nKarenga has declined to discuss the convictions with reporters and does not mention them in biographical materials. During a 2007 appearance at Wabash College, he again denied the charges and described himself as a former political prisoner.\n\nAfter his parole Karenga re-established the US organization under a new structure. He was awarded his first PhD in 1976 from United States International University (now known as Alliant International University) for a 170-page dissertation entitled \"Afro-American Nationalism: Social Strategy and Struggle for Community\". Later in his career, in 1994, he was awarded a second Ph.D., in social ethics, from the University of Southern California (USC), for an 803-page dissertation entitled \"Maat, the moral ideal in ancient Egypt: A study in classical African ethics.\"\n\nIn 1977, he formulated a set of principles called \"Kawaida\", a Swahili term for normal. Karenga called on African Americans to adopt his secular humanism and reject other practices as mythical (Karenga 1977, pp. 14, 23, 24, 27, 44–5).\n\nKarenga chairs the Africana Studies Department at California State University, Long Beach. He is the director of the Kawaida Institute for Pan African Studies and the author of several books, including his \"Introduction to Black Studies\", a comprehensive Black/African Studies textbook now in its fourth edition. He is also known for having co-hosted, in 1984, a conference that gave rise to the Association for the Study of Classical African Civilizations, and in 1995, he sat on the organizing committee and authored the mission statement of the Million Man March.\n\nKarenga delivered a eulogy at the 2001 funeral service of New Black Panther Party leader Khalid Abdul Muhammad, praising him for his organizing activities and commitment to black empowerment.\n\nIn 2002, scholar Molefi Kete Asante listed Maulana Karenga on his list of \"100 Greatest African Americans\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19513007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19513007", "title": "Michel Foucault bibliography", "text": "Michel Foucault bibliography\n\nMichel Foucault (1926–1984) was a prominent twentieth-century French philosopher, who wrote prolifically. Many of his works were translated into English. Works from his later years remain unpublished.\n\nIn French, almost all of Foucault's shorter writings, published interviews and miscellany have been published in a collection called \"Dits et écrits\", originally published in four volumes in 1994, latterly in only two volumes.\n\nIn English, there are a number of overlapping anthologies, which often use conflicting translations of the overlapping pieces, frequently with different titles. Richard Lynch's bibliography of Foucault's shorter work is invaluable for keeping track of these multiple versions. The major collections in English are:\n\nIn a 1967 lecture, called in English either \"Different spaces\" or \"Of Other Spaces\" (reprinted in \"Aesthetics, Method, and Epistemology\", and in \"The Visual Culture Reader\", ed. Nicholas Mirzoeff), Foucault coined a novel concept of the heterotopia.\n\n"}
{"id": "31744604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31744604", "title": "Monaldo Leopardi", "text": "Monaldo Leopardi\n\nCount Monaldo Leopardi (Recanati, 16 August 1776 – Recanati, 30 April 1847) was an Italian philosopher, nobleman, politician and writer, notable as one of the main Italian intellectuals of the counter-revolution. His son Giacomo Leopardi was a poet and thinker with completely opposite views, which were probably the root cause of their discord.\n\nAmong his most successful works were the \"Dialoghetti sulle materie correnti nell’anno 1831\" appreciated among others by the young Vincenzo Gioacchino Pecci (1810-1903), the future Pope Leo XIII (1878-1903) which went through six editions and was translated into French, Dutch and German; the \"Istoria evangelica\" (1832), praised by Pope Gregory XVI (1831-1846) and translated into Spanish; \"Il\" \"Catechismo filosofico per uso delle scuole inferiori\" (1832), reprinted and adopted in the schools of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies; and \"La città della filosofia\" (1833).\n\n"}
{"id": "2149194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2149194", "title": "Murid", "text": "Murid\n\nIn Sufism, a murīd or mureed (, literally \"one who seeks\") is a novice committed to spiritual enlightenment by \"sulūk\" (traversing a path) under a spiritual guide, who may take the title \"murshid\", \"pir\" or \"shaykh\". A \"sālik\" or Sufi follower only becomes a \"murīd\" when he makes a pledge (\"bayʿah\") to a \"murshid\". The equivalent Persian term is \"shāgird\".\n\nThe initiation process of a \"murīd\" is known as \"ʿahd\" () or \"bai'ath\". Before initiation, a \"murid\" is instructed by his guide, who must first accept the initiate as his or her disciple. Throughout the instruction period, the \"murīd\" typically experiences visions and dreams during personal spiritual exercises. These visions are interpreted by the \"murshid\". A common practice among the early Sufi orders, was to grant a \"khirqa\" or a robe to the \"murīd\" upon the initiation or after he had progressed through a series of increasingly difficult and significant tasks on the path of mystical development. This practice is not very common now. \"Murīds\" often receive books of instruction from \"murshids\" and often accompany itinerant \"murshids\" on their wanderings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1183594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183594", "title": "Otto von Gierke", "text": "Otto von Gierke\n\nOtto Friedrich von Gierke (11 January 1841 – October 10, 1921) was a German legal scholar and historian. In his four volume \"magnum opus\" entitled \"Das deutsche Genossenschaftsrecht\" (\"German Law of Associations\"), he pioneered the study of social groups, and the importance of associations in German life, which stood between the divide of private and public law. During his career at the Berlin University's law department, Gierke was a leading critic of the newly drafted German Civil Code, arguing that it had been moulded in an individualistic frame that was inconsistent with German social traditions. He helped to advance the concept of social law, over the classical division of public law and private law.\n\nOtto von Gierke was born in Stettin (Szczecin), Pomerania, and died in Berlin. He specialised in the study of the German antecedents of German law. His view of the \"Rechtsstaat\" (state on a legal basis), and his emphasis on the federal nature of medieval states, became important and debated. In fact, he said the society grows up because people form groups and groups of groups, from families to the State. He stood as an opponent of the trend of civil law interpretation and theorising. His theory took up some older ideas from Thomas Aquinas and Dante Alighieri (\"De Monarchia\").\n\nAbroad he was a major influence on the British historian of law F. W. Maitland, who translated as \"Political Theories of the Middle Ages\" some of Gierke's major works, and on John Neville Figgis.\n\n\nJohn D. Lewis, The Genossenschaft-Theory of Otto von Gierke: A Study in Political Thought (1935)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2497260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497260", "title": "Patimokkha", "text": "Patimokkha\n\nIn Theravada Buddhism, the Patimokkha is the basic code of monastic discipline, consisting of 227 rules for fully ordained monks (bhikkhus) and 311 for nuns (bhikkhunis). It is contained in the Suttavibhanga, a division of the Vinaya Pitaka.\n\nThe four parajikas (defeats) are rules entailing expulsion from the sangha for life. If a monk breaks any one of the rules he is automatically \"defeated\" in the holy life and falls from monkhood immediately. He is not allowed to become a monk again in his lifetime. Intention is necessary in all these four cases to constitute an offence. The four parajikas for bhikkus are:\n\n\nThe parajikas are more specific definitions of the first four of the Five Precepts.\n\nThe thirteen sanghadisesas are rules requiring an initial and subsequent meeting of the sangha (communal meetings). If the monk breaks any rule here he has to undergo a period of probation or discipline after which, if he shows himself to be repentant, he may be reinstated by a sangha of not less than twenty monks. Like the parajikas, the sanghadisesas can only come about through the monk's own intention and cannot be accidentally invoked. The thirteen sanghadisesas for bhikkus are:\n\nThe aniyata are two indefinite rules where a monk is accused of having committed an offence with a woman in a screened (enclosed) or private place by a lay person. It is indefinite because the final outcome depends on whether the monk acknowledges the offence. Benefit of the doubt is given to the monk unless there is over-riding evidence.\n\nThus it is not proper for a monk to be alone with a woman, especially in screened or private places.\n\n\nThe nissaggiya pacittiya are thirty rules entailing \"confession with forfeiture.\" They are mostly concerned with the possessing of items which are disallowed or obtained in disallowable ways. The monk must forfeit the item and then confess his offense to another monk. The thirty nissaggiya pacittiya for bhikkhu are:\n\n92 pacittiya are rules entailing confession. There are ninety two Pacittiya and they are minor violations which do not entail expulsion or any probationary periods.\n\n1. A deliberate lie is to be confessed.\n\n2. An insult is to be confessed.\n\n3. Malicious tale-bearing among bhikkhus is to be confessed.\n\n4. Should any bhikkhu have an unordained person recite Dhamma line by line (with him), it is to be confessed.\n\n5. Should any bhikkhu lie down together (in the same dwelling) with an unordained person for more than two or three consecutive nights, it is to be confessed.\n\n6. Should any bhikkhu lie down together (in the same dwelling) with a woman, it is to be confessed.\n\n7. Should any bhikkhu teach more than five or six sentences of Dhamma to a woman, unless a knowledgeable man is present, it is to be confessed.\n\n8. Should any bhikkhu report (his own) superior human state, when it is factual, to an unordained person, it is to be confessed.\n\n9. Should any bhikkhu report (another) bhikkhu's serious offense to an unordained person, unless authorized by the bhikkhus, it is to be confessed.\n\n10. Should any bhikkhu dig soil or have it dug, it is to be confessed.\n\n11. The damaging of a living plant is to be confessed.\n\n12. Evasive speech and causing frustration are to be confessed.\n\n13. Criticizing or complaining (about a Community official) is to be confessed.\n\n14. Should any bhikkhu set a bed, bench, mattress, or stool belonging to the Community out in the open, or have it set out, and then on departing neither put it away nor have it put away, or should he go without taking leave, it is to be confessed.\n\n15. Should any bhikkhu set out bedding in a dwelling belonging to the Community, or have it set out, and then on departing neither put it away nor have it put away, or should he go without taking leave, it is to be confessed.\n\n16. Should any bhikkhu knowingly lie down in a dwelling belonging to the Community so as to intrude on a bhikkhu who arrived there first, (thinking), \"Whoever finds it confining will go away,\" doing it for just that reason and no other, it is to be confessed.\n\n17. Should any bhikkhu, angered and displeased, evict a bhikkhu from a dwelling belonging to the Community, or have him evicted, it is to be confessed.\n\n18. Should any bhikkhu sit or lie down on a bed or bench with detachable legs on an (unplanked) loft in a dwelling belonging to the Community, it is to be confessed.\n\n19. When a bhikkhu is having a large dwelling built, he may supervise two or three layers of facing to plaster the area around the window frame and reinforce the area around the door frame the width of the door opening, while standing where there are no crops to speak of. Should he supervise more than that, even if standing where there are no crops to speak of, it is to be confessed.\n\n20. Should any bhikkhu knowingly pour water containing living beings, or have it poured, on grass or on clay, it is to be confessed.\n\n21. Should any bhikkhu, unauthorized, exhort the bhikkhunīs, it is to be confessed.\n\n22. Should any bhikkhu, even if authorized, exhort the bhikkhunīs after sunset, it is to be confessed.\n\n23. Should any bhikkhu, having gone to the bhikkhunīs' quarters, exhort the bhikkhunīs, except at the proper occasion, it is to be confessed. Here the proper occasion is this: A bhikkhunī is ill. This is the proper occasion here.\n\n24. Should any bhikkhu say that the bhikkhus exhort the bhikkhunīs for the sake of worldly gain, it is to be confessed.\n\n25. Should any bhikkhu give robe-cloth to a bhikkhunī unrelated to him, except in exchange, it is to be confessed.\n\n26. Should any bhikkhu sew robe-cloth or have it sewn for a bhikkhunī unrelated to him, it is to be confessed.\n\n27. Should any bhikkhu, by arrangement, travel together with a bhikkhunī even for the interval between one village and the next, except at the proper occasion, it is to be confessed. Here the proper occasion is this: The road is to be traveled by caravan and is considered dubious and risky. This is the proper occasion here.\n\n28. Should any bhikkhu, by arrangement, get in the same boat with a bhikkhunī going upstream or downstream, except to cross over to the other bank, it is to be confessed.\n\n29. Should any bhikkhu knowingly eat almsfood donated through the prompting of a bhikkhunī, except for food that householders had already intended for him prior (to her prompting), it is to be confessed.\n\n30. Should any bhikkhu sit in private, alone with a bhikkhunī, it is to be confessed.\n\n31. A bhikkhu who is not ill may eat one meal at a public alms center. Should he eat more than that, it is to be confessed.\n\n32. A group meal, except on the proper occasions, is to be confessed. Here the proper occasions are these: a time of illness, a time of giving cloth, a time of making robes, a time of going on a journey, a time of embarking on a boat, an extraordinary occasion, a time when the meal is supplied by contemplatives. These are the proper occasions here.\n\n33. An out-of-turn meal, except on the proper occasions, is to be confessed. Here the proper occasions are these: a time of illness, a time of giving cloth (the robe season), a time of making robes. These are the proper occasions here.\n\n34. In case a bhikkhu arriving at a family residence is presented with cakes or cooked grain-meal, he may accept two or three bowlfuls if he so desires. If he should accept more than that, it is to be confessed. Having accepted the two-or-three bowlfuls and having taken them from there, he is to share them among the bhikkhus. This is the proper course here.\n\n35. Should any bhikkhu, having eaten and turned down an offer (of further food), chew or consume staple or non-staple food that is not left over, it is to be confessed.\n\n36. Should any bhikkhu, knowingly and wishing to find fault, present staple or non-staple food to a bhikkhu who has eaten and turned down an offer (for further food), saying, \"Here, bhikkhu, chew or consume this\" — when it has been eaten, it is to be confessed.\n\n37. Should any bhikkhu chew or consume staple or non-staple food at the wrong time, it is to be confessed.\n\n38. Should any bhikkhu chew or consume stored-up staple or non-staple food, it is to be confessed.\n\n39. There are these finer staple foods, i.e., ghee, fresh butter, oil, honey, sugar/molasses, fish, meat, milk, and curds. Should any bhikkhu who is not ill, having asked for finer staple foods such as these for his own sake, then eat them, it is to be confessed.\n\n40. Should any bhikkhu take into his mouth an edible that has not been given, except for water and tooth-cleaning sticks, it is to be confessed.\n\n41. Should any bhikkhu give staple or non-staple food with his own hand to a naked ascetic, a male wanderer, or a female wanderer, it is to be confessed.\n\n42. Should any bhikkhu say to a bhikkhu, \"Come, my friend, let's enter the village or town for alms,\" and then — whether or not he has had (food) given to him — dismiss him, saying, \"Go away, my friend. I don't like sitting or talking with you. I prefer sitting or talking alone,\" if doing it for that reason and no other, it is to be confessed.\n\n43. Should a bhikkhu sit intruding on a family \"with its meal,\" it is to be confessed.\n\n44. Should any bhikkhu sit in private on a secluded seat with a woman, it is to be confessed.\n\n45. Should any bhikkhu sit in private, alone with a woman, it is to be confessed.\n\n46. Should any bhikkhu, being invited for a meal and without taking leave of an available bhikkhu, go calling on families before or after the meal, except at the proper times, it is to be confessed. Here the proper times are these: the time of giving cloth, the time of making robes. These are the proper times here.\n\n47. A bhikkhu who is not ill may accept (make use of) a four-month invitation to ask for requisites. If he should accept (make use of) it for longer than that; unless the invitation is renewed or is permanent; it is to be confessed.\n\n48. Should any bhikkhu go to see an army on active duty, unless there is a suitable reason, it is to be confessed.\n\n49. There being some reason or another for a bhikkhu to go to an army, he may stay two or three (consecutive) nights with the army. If he should stay longer than that, it is to be confessed.\n\n50. If a bhikkhu staying two or three nights with an army should go to a battlefield, a roll call, the troops in battle formation, or to see a review of the (battle) units, it is to be confessed.\n\n51. The drinking of alcohol or fermented liquor is to be confessed.\n\n52. Tickling with the fingers is to be confessed.\n\n53. The act of playing in the water is to be confessed.\n\n54. Disrespect is to be confessed.\n\n55. Should any bhikkhu try to frighten another bhikkhu, it is to be confessed.\n\n56. Should any bhikkhu who is not ill, seeking to warm himself, kindle a fire or have one kindled, unless there is a suitable reason, it is to be confessed.\n\n57. Should any bhikkhu bathe at intervals of less than half a month, except at the proper occasions, it is to be confessed. Here the proper occasions are these: the last month and a half of the hot season, the first month of the rains, these two and a half months being a time of heat, a time of fever; (also) a time of illness; a time of work; a time of going on a journey; a time of wind or rain. These are the proper times here.\n\n58. When a bhikkhu receives a new robe, any one of three means of discoloring it is to be applied: green, brown, or black. If a bhikkhu should make use of a new robe without applying any of the three means of discoloring it, it is to be confessed.\n\n59. Should any bhikkhu, himself having placed robe-cloth under shared ownership (vikappana) with a bhikkhu, a bhikkhuni, a female probationer, a male novice, or a female novice, then make use of the cloth without the shared ownership's being rescinded, it is to be confessed.\n\n60. Should any bhikkhu hide (another) bhikkhu's bowl, robe, sitting cloth, needle case, or belt, or have it hidden, even as a joke, it is to be confessed.\n\n61. Should any bhikkhu knowingly deprive an animal of life, it is to be confessed.\n\n62. Should any bhikkhu knowingly make use of water with living beings in it, it is to be confessed.\n\n63. Should any bhikkhu knowingly agitate for the reviving of an issue that has been rightfully dealt with, it is to be confessed.\n\n64. Should any bhikkhu knowingly conceal another bhikkhu's serious offense, it is to be confessed.\n\n65. Should any bhikkhu knowingly give full ordination to an individual less than twenty years of age, the individual is not ordained and the bhikkhus are blameworthy; and as for him (the preceptor), it is to be confessed.\n\n66. Should any bhikkhu knowingly and by arrangement travel together with a caravan of thieves, even for the interval between one village and the next, it is to be confessed.\n\n67. Should any bhikkhu, by arrangement, travel together with a woman, even for the interval between one village and the next, it is to be confessed.\n\n68. Should any bhikkhu say the following: \"As I understand the Dhamma taught by the Blessed One, those acts the Blessed One says are obstructive, when indulged in are not genuine obstructions,\" the bhikkhus should admonish him thus: \"Do not say that, venerable sir. Do not misrepresent the Blessed One, for it is not good to misrepresent the Blessed One. The Blessed One would not say anything like that. In many ways, friend, the Blessed One has described obstructive acts, and when indulged in they are genuine obstructions.\"\n\nAnd should the bhikkhu, thus admonished by the bhikkhus, persist as before, the bhikkhus are to rebuke him up to three times so as to desist. If while being rebuked up to three times he desists, that is good. If he does not desist, it is to be confessed.\n\n69. Should any bhikkhu knowingly consort, join in communion, or lie down in the same lodging with a bhikkhu professing such a view who has not acted in compliance with the rule, who has not abandoned that view, it is to be confessed.\n\n70. And if a novice should say the following: \"As I understand the Dhamma taught by the Blessed One, those acts the Blessed One says are obstructive when indulged in, are not genuine obstructions,\" the bhikkhus should admonish him thus: \"Do not say that, friend novice. Do not misrepresent the Blessed One, for it is not good to misrepresent the Blessed One. The Blessed One would not say anything like that. In many ways, friend, the Blessed One has described obstructive acts, and when indulged in they are genuine obstructions.\"\n\nAnd should that novice, thus admonished by the bhikkhus, persist as before, the bhikkhus should admonish him as follows: \"From this day forth, friend novice, you are not to claim the Blessed One as your teacher, nor are you even to have the opportunity the other novices get — that of sharing lodgings two or three nights with the bhikkhus. Away with you! Out of our sight! (literally, 'Get lost!')\"\n\nShould any bhikkhu knowingly support, receive services from, consort with, or lie down in the same lodging with a novice thus expelled, it is to be confessed.\n\n71. Should any bhikkhu, admonished by the bhikkhus in accordance with a rule, say, \"Friends, I will not train myself under this training rule until I have put questions about it to another bhikkhu, experienced and learned in the discipline,\" it is to be confessed. Bhikkhus, (a training rule) is to be understood, is to be asked about, is to be pondered. This is the proper course here.\n\n72. Should any bhikkhu, when the Patimokkha is being repeated, say, \"Why are these lesser and minor training rules repeated when they lead only to anxiety, bother and confusion?\" the criticism of the training rules is to be confessed.\n\n73. Should any bhikkhu, when the Patimokkha is being recited every half-month, say, \"Just now have I heard that this case, too, is handed down in the Patimokkha, is included in the Patimokkha, and comes up for recitation every half-month;\" and if other bhikkhus should know, \"That bhikkhu has already sat through two or three recitations of the Patimokkha, if not more,\" the bhikkhu is not exempted for being ignorant. Whatever the offense he has committed, he is to be dealt with in accordance with the rule; and in addition, his deception is to be exposed: \"It is no gain for you, friend, it is ill-done, that when the Patimokkha is being recited, you do not pay proper attention and take it to heart.\" Here the deception is to be confessed.\n\n74. Should any bhikkhu, angered and displeased, give a blow to (another) bhikkhu, it is to be confessed.\n\n75. Should any bhikkhu, angered and displeased, raise his hand against (another) bhikkhu, it is to be confessed.\n\n76. Should any bhikkhu charge a bhikkhu with an unfounded sanghadisesa (offense), it is to be confessed.\n\n77. Should any bhikkhu purposefully provoke anxiety in (another) bhikkhu, (thinking,) \"This way, even for just a moment, he will have no peace,\" if doing it for just this reason and no other, it is to be confessed.\n\n78. Should any bhikkhu stand eavesdropping on bhikkhus when they are arguing, quarreling, and disputing, thinking, \"I will overhear what they say\" if doing it for just this reason and no other, it is to be confessed.\n\n79. Should any bhikkhu, having given consent (by proxy) to a formal act carried out in accordance with the rule, later complain (about the act), it is to be confessed.\n\n80. Should any bhikkhu, when deliberation is being carried on in the Community, get up from his seat and leave without having given consent, it is to be confessed.\n\n81. Should any bhikkhu, (acting as part of) a Community in concord, give robe-cloth (to an individual bhikkhu) and later complain, \"The bhikkhus apportion the Community's gains according to friendship,\" it is to be confessed.\n\n82. Should any bhikkhu knowingly divert to an individual gains that had been allocated for the Community, it is to be confessed.\n\n83. Should any bhikkhu, without being previously announced, cross the threshold of a consecrated noble king's (sleeping chamber) from which the king has not left, from which the treasure (the queen) has not withdrawn, it is to be confessed.\n\n84. Should any bhikkhu pick up or have (someone) pick up a valuable or what is considered a valuable, except within a monastery or within a dwelling, it is to be confessed. But when a bhikkhu has picked up or had (someone) pick up a valuable or what is considered a valuable (left) in a monastery or in a dwelling, he is to keep it, (thinking,) \"Whoever it belongs to will (come and) fetch it.\" This is the proper course here.\n\n85. Should any bhikkhu, without taking leave of an available bhikkhu, enter a village at the wrong time, unless there is a suitable emergency, it is to be confessed.\n\n86. Should any bhikkhu have a needle case made of bone, ivory, or horn, it is to be broken and confessed.\n\n87. When a bhikkhu is making a new bed or bench, it is to have legs (at most) eight fingerbreadths long, using Sugata fingerbreadths, not counting the lower edge of the frame. In excess of that it is to be cut down and confessed.\n\n88. Should any bhikkhu have a bed or bench upholstered, it (the upholstery) is to be torn off and confessed.\n\n89. When a bhikkhu is making a sitting cloth, it is to be made to the standard measurement. Here the standard is this: two spans, using the Sugata span, in length, 1 1/2 in width, the border a span. In excess of that, it is to be cut down and confessed.\n\n90. When a bhikkhu is making a skin-eruption covering cloth, it is to be made to the standard measurement. Here the standard is this: four spans, using the Sugata span, in length, two spans in width. In excess of that, it is to be cut down and confessed.\n\n91. When a bhikkhu is making a rains-bathing cloth, it is to be made to the standard measurement. Here the standard is this: six spans, using the Sugata span, in length, 2 1/2 in width. In excess of that, it is to be cut down and confessed.\n\n92. Should any bhikkhu have a robe made the size of the Sugata robe or larger, it is to be cut down and confessed. Here, the size of the Sugata robe is this: nine spans, using the Sugata span, in length, six spans in width. This is the size of the Sugata's Sugata robe.\n\nPatidesaniya are violations which must be verbally acknowledged.\n\n\nThere are seventy five sekhiya or rules of training, which are mainly about the deportment of a monk. In many countries, it is also standard for novice monks (samanera) to follow the Sekhiyavatta rules in addition to the Ten Precepts.\n\n\n\nA bhikku should train himself thus: I will not teach Dhamma to someone who is not sick and...\n\n\nA bhikku should train himself thus: If I am not sick...\n\n\nAdhikarana-samatha are seven rules for settlement of legal processes that concern monks only.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9089659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9089659", "title": "Pañca-Parameṣṭhi", "text": "Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\n\nThe (Sanskrit for \"five supreme beings\") in Jainism are a fivefold hierarchy of religious authorities worthy of veneration.\n\nThe five supreme beings are:\n\nThe five initials, viz. \"A+A+A+U+M\" are taken as forming the Aum syllable.\n\nDravyasaṃgraha, a major Jain text, succinctly characterizes the five Supreme Beings (\"Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24260", "title": "Pervez Musharraf", "text": "Pervez Musharraf\n\nPervez Musharraf ( \"\"; born 11 August 1943) is a Pakistani politician and a retired four-star army general who was the tenth President of Pakistan from 2001 until tendering his resignation, to avoid impeachment, in 2008.\n\nBorn in Delhi during British Raj, Musharraf was raised in Karachi and Istanbul. He went on to study mathematics at the Forman Christian College in Lahore and would later study at the Royal College of Defence Studies in 1991. Musharraf entered the Pakistan Military Academy in 1961 and was commissioned in the Pakistan Army in 1964 and went on to play an active role in the Afghan civil war. Musharraf saw action in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 as a second lieutenant; by the 1980s, Musharraf was commanding an artillery brigade. In the 1990s, he was promoted to major general and assigned an infantry division, and later commanded the Special Services Group. Later he served as deputy military secretary and the director general of military operation.\n\nMusharraf rose to national prominence when he was elevated to a four-star general, appointed by then-Prime Minister Sharif in October 1998, making Musharraf the head of the armed forces. He led the Kargil infiltration that almost brought India and Pakistan to a full-fledged war in 1999. After months of contentious relations with Prime Minister Sharif, Sharif unsuccessfully attempted to remove Musharraf from the army's leadership. In retaliation, the army staged a coup d'état in 1999 which allowed Musharraf to take-over Pakistan and subsequently placed Prime Minister Sharif under a strict house-arrest before moving towards a trial against Sharif in Adiala Prison.\n\nMusharraf became the head of the military government while remaining the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs in 2001 and the Chief of the Army Staff. Although, Musharraf relinquished the position of Chairman of Joint Chiefs in 2001, he remained the Army Chief until retiring from the army in 2007. He became the President of Pakistan on 20 June 2001, only to win a controversial referendum on 1 May 2002 which awarded him five years of presidency. In October the same year, he oversaw a general election in which the army backed PML-Q was successful.\n\nDuring his presidency, he advocated for a third way for varying synthesis of conservatism and left wing ideas, he appointed Shaukat Aziz in place of Sharif and directed policies against terrorism, becoming a key player in the American-led war on terror. Over the next several years, Musharraf survived a number of assassination attempts. He reinstated the constitution in 2002, though it was heavily amended with the Legal Framework Order. He also saw a process of social liberalism under his enlightened moderation program, while also promoting economic liberalisation and banning trade unions. He oversaw a rise of in overall gross domestic product at around 50%, however domestic savings declined and saw a rapid rise in economic inequality. Musharraf's government has also been accused of human rights abuses.\n\nAs Shaukat Aziz departed as Prime Minister, and after approving the suspension of the judicature branch in 2007, Musharraf's position was dramatically weakened in early 2008. Tendering his resignation in a threat to face potential impeachment movement led by the ruling Pakistan People's Party in 2008, Musharraf moved to London in self-imposed exile after returning to Pakistan to participate in the general elections held in 2013. While absent from Pakistan, Musharraf engaged in legal battles after the country's high courts issued warrants for him and Aziz for their alleged involvement in the assassinations of Benazir and Bugti. Upon his return, Musharraf was disqualified from taking part in the elections by High Court judges in April 2013. On 31 March 2014, Musharraf was booked and charged with high treason for implementing emergency rule and suspending the constitution in 2007. On 31 August 2017, he was declared an \"absconder\" by Pakistan’s anti-terrorism court in verdict of Benazir Bhutto murder case. His legacy is mixed; his era saw the emergence of a more assertive middle class, but his disregard for civilian institutions weakened the state of Pakistan.\n\nPervez Musharraf was born on 11 August 1943 to an Urdu-speaking family in Delhi, British India, the son of Syed Musharrafuddin and his wife Begum Zarin Musharraf. At the time of his birth his family lived at a large home that belonged to his father's family for many years called \"Nehar Wali Haveli\", which means \"House Next to the Canal\". His family were Sunni Muslims who were also Sayyids, claiming descent from prophet Muhammad. Syed Musharraf graduated from Aligarh Muslim University and entered the civil service, which was an extremely prestigious career under British rule. He came from a long line of government officials as his great-grandfather was a tax collector while his maternal grandfather was a \"qazi\" (judge). Musharraf's mother Zarin, born in the early 1920s, grew up in Lucknow and received her schooling there, after which she graduated from Indraprastha College in Delhi University, taking a bachelor's degree in English literature. She then got married and devoted herself to raising a family. His father, Syed, was an accountant who worked at the foreign office in the British Indian government and eventually became a accounting director.\n\nMusharraf was the second of three children, all boys. His elder brother, Dr. Javed Musharraf, based in Rome, is an economist and is one of the Directors of the International Fund for Agricultural Development. His younger brother, Dr. Naved Musharraf, is an anaestheologist based in Illinois, USA.\n\nMusharraf's first childhood home in Delhi was called 'Neharwali Haveli', literally 'canal-side house'. Sir Syed Ahmed Khan's family lived next door. It is indicative of \"the family's western education and social prominence\" that the house's title deeds, although written entirely in Urdu, were signed by Musharraf's father in English.\n\nMusharraf was four years old when India achieved independence and Pakistan was created as the homeland for India's Muslims. His family left for Pakistan in August 1947, a few days before independence. His father joined the Pakistan Civil Services and began to work for the Pakistani government; later, his father joined the Foreign Ministry, taking up an assignment in Turkey. In his autobiography \"\", Musharraf elaborates on his first experience with death, after falling off a mango tree.\n\nMusharraf's family moved to Ankara in 1949, when his father became part of a diplomatic deputation from Pakistan to Turkey. He learned to speak Turkish. He had a dog named Whiskey that gave him a \"lifelong love for dogs\". He played sports in his youth. In 1956, he left Turkey and returned to Pakistan in 1957 where he attended Saint Patrick's School in Karachi and was accepted at the Forman Christian College University in Lahore. At Forman, Musharraf declared his major in mathematics and performed extremely well in his collegiate mathematics, but later developed an interest in economics.\n\nIn 1961, at age of 18, Musharraf entered the prestigious Pakistan Military Academy at Kakul. During his college years at PMA and initial joint military testings, Musharraf shared a room with PQ Mehdi of Pakistan Air Force and Abdul Aziz Mirza of Navy (both reached four-star assignments and served with Musharraf later on) and after giving the exams and entrance interviews, all three cadets went to watch a world-acclaimed Urdu film, \"Savera\" (lit. \"Dawn\"), with his inter-services and college friends, Musharraf recalls, \"\", published in 2006. With his friends, Musharraf passed the standardise, physical, psychological, and officer-training exams, he also took discussions involving the socioeconomics issues; all three were interviewed by joint military officers who were designated as Commandants. The next day, Musharraf along with PQ Mehdi and Mirza, reported to PMA and they were selected for their respective training in their arms of commission.\n\nFinally in 1964, Musharraf graduated with a Bachelor's degree in his class of 29th PMA Long Course together with Ali Kuli Khan and his lifelong friend Abdul Aziz Mirza. He was commissioned in the artillery regiment as second lieutenant and posted near the Indo-Pakistan border. During this time in the artillery regiment, Musharraf maintained his close friendship and contact with Mirza through letters and telephones even in difficult times when Mirza, after joining the Navy Special Service Group, was stationed in East-Pakistan as a military advisor to East Pakistan Army.\n\nHis first battlefield experience was with an artillery regiment in the intense fighting for Khemkaran sector in the Second Kashmir War. He also participated in the Lahore and Sialkot war zones during the conflict. During the war, Musharraf developed a reputation for sticking to his post under shellfire. He received the Imtiazi Sanad medal for gallantry.\n\nShortly after the end of the War of 1965, he was selected to join the special force school by recommendation of his commanding officer in Sialkot. After passing the rigorous exams and physically tough training, he joined the elite Special Service Group (SSG) and then trained together with then-lieutenant Shahid Karimullah (also a four-star admiral) for the joint operations. He served in the SSG from 1966–1972. He was promoted to army captain and to major during this period. During the 1971 war with India, he was a company commander of a SSG commando battalion. During the 1971 war, he was scheduled to depart to East-Pakistan to join the army-navy joint military operations, but instead his deployment did not materialize after Indian Army advances towards Southern Pakistan.\n\nMusharraf was a lieutenant colonel in 1974; and a colonel in 1978. As staff officer in the 1980s, he studied political science at NDU, and then briefly tenured as assistant professor of war studies at the Command and Staff College and then assistant professor of political science also at the National Defense University. One of his professors at NDU was general Jehangir Karamat who served Musharraf's guidance counselor and instructor who had significant influence on Musharraf's philosophy and critical thinking. He did not play any significant role in Pakistan's proxy war in the 1979–89 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. In 1987, he became a brigade commander of a new brigade of the SSG near Siachen Glacier. He was personally chosen by then-President and Chief of Army Staff general Zia-ul-Haq for this assignment due to Musharraf's wide experience in mountain and arctic warfare. In September 1987, an assault was launched under the command of Musharraf at Bilafond La before being pushed back. In 1990–91, he studied at the Royal College of Defense Studies (RCDS) in Britain.\n\nHis course-mate included Major-generals B. S. Malik and Ashok Mehta of the Indian Army, and Ali Kuli Khan of Pakistan Army. In his course studies, Musharraf performed extremely well as compared to his classmates, submitted his master's degree thesis, titled \"Impact of Arm Race in the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent\", and earned good remarks. He submitted his thesis to Commandant General Antony Walker who regarded Musharraf as one of his finest students he had seen in his entire career. At one point, Walker described Musharraf: \"A capable, articulate and extremely personable officer, who made a valuable impact at RCDS. His country is fortunate to have the services of a man of his undeniable quality.\" He graduated with a master's degree from RCDS and returned to Pakistan soon after. Upon returning in the 1980s, Musharraf took interest the emerging rock music genre, and often listened to rock music after getting off from duty. The 1980s, regarded as birth of Pakistan's rock music genre, Musharraf was reportedly into the popular Western fashion in the 1980s, which was very popular at the government and public circles, in the country at that time. While in the Army, he earned the nickname \"Cowboy\" for his westernized ways and his fashion interest in Western clothing.\n\nEarlier in 1988–89, (as Brigadier) Musharraf proposed the Kargil infiltration to Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto but she rebuffed the plan. In 1991–93, he secured a two-star promotion, elevating him to the rank of major general and held a command of 40th Army Division as its GOC, stationed in Okara Military District in Punjab Province. In 1993–95, Major-General Musharraf worked closely with the Chief of Army Staff as Director-General of Pakistan Army's Directorate General for the Military Operations (DGMO). During this time, Musharraf became close to engineering officer and director-general of \"ISI\" lieutenant-general Javed Nasir and had worked with him while directing operations in Bosnian war. His political philosophy was influenced by Benazir Bhutto who mentored him on various occasions, and Musharraf generally closed to Benazir Bhutto on military policy issues on India. From 1993 to 1995, Musharraf repeatedly visited the United States as part of the delegation of Benazir Bhutto. It was Maulana Fazal-ur-Rehman who lobbied for his promotion to Benazir Bhutto, and subsequently getting the Musharraf's promotion papers approved by Benazir Bhutto, which eventually led to his appointment in Benazir Bhutto's key staff. In 1993, Musharraf personally assisted Benazir Bhutto to have a secret meeting in a Pakistan Embassy at the Washington, D.C. with officials from Mossad and special envoy of Israeli premier Yitzhak Rabin. It was during these times when Musharraf build extremely cordial relationships with Shaukat Aziz who, at that time, was serving as the executive president of global financial services of the Citibank.\n\nAfter the collapse of the fractious Afghan government, Musharraf assisted General Babar and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) in devising a policy of supporting the newly formed Taliban in the Afghan civil war against the Northern Alliance government. On policy issues, Musharraf befriended senior justice of the Supreme Court of Pakistan Justice Rafiq Tarar (later president) and held common beliefs with the latter.\n\nHis last military field operations posting was in the Mangla region of the Kashmir Province in 1995 when Benazir Bhutto approved the promotion of Musharraf to three-star rank, Lieutenant-General. Between 1995 and 1998, Lieutenant-General Musharraf was the corps commander (CC-I) of I \"Strike\" Corps stationed in Mangla, Mangla Military District.\n\nAlthough both Nawaz Sharif and general Jehangir Karamat were educated, and held common beliefs concerning national security, problems arose with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and Chief of Army Staff General Karamat in October 1998. While addressing the officers and cadets at the Naval War College, General Karamat stressed the creation of National Security Council, which would be backed by a \"team of civil-military experts\" for devising policies to seek resolution ongoing problems relating the civil-military issues; also recommended a \"neutral but competent bureaucracy and administration of at federal level and the establishment of Local governments in four provinces.\" This proposal was met with hostility, and led to Nawaz Sharif's dismissal of General Karamat. In turn, this reduced Nawaz's mandate in public circles, and led to much criticism from Leader of the Opposition Benazir Bhutto.\n\nThere were three lieutenant-general officers potentially in line to succeed General Karamat as four-star rank and chief of army staff. Lieutenant-general Ali Kuli Khan, a graduate of PMA and RMA, Sandhurst, was an extremely capable staff officer and well liked in public circles, but was seen as close to the former chief of army staff general (retired) Abdul Vaheed; and was not promoted. Second in line was lieutenant-general Khalid Nawaz Khan who was popularly known for his ruthless leadership in the army; particularly for his unforgiving attitude to his junior officers. Lieutenant-general Nawaz Khan was known for his opposition and anti-muhajir sentiment, and was particularly hardline against the MQM.\n\nMusharraf was in third-in line, and was well regarded by the general public and the armed forces. He also had an excellent academic standing from his college and university studies. Musharraf was strongly favoured by the Prime Ministers colleagues: a straight officer with democratic views. Nisar Ali Khan and Shahbaz Sharif recommended Musharraf and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif personally promoted Musharraf to the rank of four-star general to replace Karamat.\n\nAfter the Kargil incident, Musharraf did not wish to be the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs: Musharraf favoured the chief of naval staff Admiral Bokhari to take on this role, and claimed that: \"he did not care\" Prime minister Sharif was displeased by this suggestion, due to the hostile nature of his relationship with the Admiral. Musharraf further exacerbated his divide with Nawaz Sharif after recommending the forced retirement of senior officers close to the Prime minister, including Lieutenant-General Tariq Pervez (or \"TP\"), commander of XII Corps, who was a brother-in-law of a high profile cabinet minister. According to Musharraf, lieutenant-general TP was an ill-mannered, foul-mouthed, ill-disciplined officer who caused a great deal of dissent within the armed forces. Nawaz Sharif's announcement of the promotion of General Musharraf to Chairman Joint Chiefs caused an escalation of the tensions with Admiral Bokhari: upon hearing the news, he launched a strong protest against the Prime minister The next morning, the Prime minister relieved Admiral Bokhari of his duties. It was during his time as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs that Musharraf began to build friendly relations with the United States Army establishment, including General Anthony Zinni, USMC, General Tommy Franks, General John Abizaid, and General Colin Powell of the US Army, all of whom were premier four-star generals in the military history of the United States.\n\nThe Pakistan Army originally conceived the Kargil plan after the Siachen conflict but the plan was rebuffed repeatedly by senior civilian and military officials. Musharraf was a leading strategist behind the Kargil Conflict. From March to May 1999, he ordered the secret infiltration of Kashmiri forces in the Kargil district. After India discovered the infiltration, a fierce Indian offensive nearly led to a full-scale war. However, Sharif withdrew support of the insurgents in the border conflict in July because of heightened international pressure. Sharif's decision antagonized the Pakistan Army and rumors of a possible coup began emerging soon afterward. Sharif and Musharraf dispute on who was responsible for the Kargil conflict and Pakistan's withdrawal.\n\nThis strategic operation met with great hostility in the public circles and wide scale disapproval in the media who roundly criticised this operation. Musharraf had severe confrontation and became involved in serious altercations with his senior officers, chief of naval staff Admiral Fasih Bokhari, chief of air staff, air chief marshal PQ Mehdi and senior lieutenant-general Ali Kuli Khan. Admiral Bokhari ultimately demanded a full-fledged joint-service court martial against General Musharraf, while on the other hand General Kuli Khan lambasted the war as \"a disaster bigger than the East-Pakistan tragedy\", adding that the plan was \"flawed in terms of its conception, tactical planning and execution\" that ended in \"sacrificing so many soldiers.\" Problems with his life long friend, chief of air staff air chief marshal Pervez Mehdi also arose when air chief refrained to participate or authorise any air strike to support the elements of army operations in the Kargil region.\n\nDuring the last meeting with the Prime minister, Musharraf faced a grave criticism on results produced by Kargil infiltration by the principle military intelligence (MI) director lieutenant-general Jamshed Gulzar Kiani who maintained in the meeting: \"(...) whatever has been written there is against logic. If you catch your enemy by the jugular vein he would react with full force... If you cut enemy supply lines, the only option for him will be to ensure supplies by air... (sic).. at that situation the Indian Army was unlikely to confront and it had to come up to the occasion. It is against wisdom that you dictate to the enemy to keep the war limited to a certain front...\"\n\nNawaz Sharif has maintained that the Operation was conducted without his knowledge. However, details of the briefing he got from the military before and after the Kargil operation have become public. Before the operation, between January and March, Sharif was briefed about the operation in three separate meetings. In January, the army briefed him about the Indian troop movement along the LOC in Skardu on 29 January 1999, on 5 February at Kel, on 12 March at the GHQ and finally on 17 May at the ISI headquarters. During the end of the June DCC meeting, a tense Sharif turned to the army chief and said \"you should have told me earlier\", Musharraf pulled out his notebook and repeated the dates and contents of around seven briefings he had given him since beginning of January.\n\nMilitary officials from Musharraf's Joint Staff Headquarters (JS HQ) met with regional corps commanders three times in late September in anticipation of a possible coup. To quieten rumours of a fallout between Musharraf and Sharif, Sharif officially certified Musharraf's remaining two years of his term on 30 September.\n\nMusharraf had left for a weekend trip to take part in Sri Lanka's Army's 50th-anniversary celebrations. When Pervez Musharraf was returning from an official visit to Colombo his flight was denied landing permissions to Karachi International Airport after orders were issued from the Prime Minister's office. Upon hearing the announcement of Nawaz Sharif, replacing Pervez Musharraf by Khwaja Ziauddin, the third replacement of the top military commander of the country in less than two years, local military commanders began to mobilize troops towards Islamabad from nearby Rawalpindi. The military placed Sharif under house arrest, but in a last-ditch effort Sharif privately ordered Karachi air traffic controllers to redirect Musharraf's flight to India. The plan failed after soldiers in Karachi surrounded the airport control tower. At 2:50 am on 13 October, Musharraf addressed the nation with a recorded message.\n\nMusharraf met with President Rafiq Tarar on 13 October to deliberate on legitimising the coup. On 15 October, Musharraf ended emerging hopes of a quick transition to democracy after he declared a state of emergency, suspended the Constitution, and assumed power as Chief Executive. He also quickly purged the government of political enemies, notably Ziauddin and national airline chief Shahid Khaqan Abbassi. On 17 October, he gave his second national address and established a seven-member military-civilian council to govern the country. He named three retired military officers and a judge as provincial administrators on 21 October. Ultimately, Musharraf assumed executive powers but did not obtain the office of Prime minister. The Prime minister secretariat (official residence of Prime minister of Pakistan) was closed by the military police and the staff was deposed by Musharraf immediately.\n\nThere were no organised protests within the country to the coup. The coup was widely criticized by the international community. Consequently, Pakistan was suspended from the Commonwealth of Nations. Sharif was put under house arrest and later exiled to Saudi Arabia on his personal request and under a contract.\n\nThe senior military appointments in the inter-services were extremely important and crucial for Musharraf to keep the legitimacy and the support for his coup in the joint inter-services. Starting with the PAF, Musharraf pressured President Tarar to appoint most-junior air marshal to four-star rank, particularly someone with Musharraf had experienced working during the inter-services operations. Once Air-chief Marshal Pervez Kureshi was retired, the most junior air marshal Muschaf Mir (who worked with Musharraf in 1996 to assist \"ISI\" in Taliban matters) was appointed to four-star rank as well as elevated as Chief of Air Staff. There were two extremely important military appointments made by Musharraf in the Navy. Although Admiral Aziz Mirza (a lifelong friend of Musharraf, he shared a dorm with the admiral in the 1960s and they graduated together from the academy) was appointed by Prime minister Nawaz Sharif, Mirza remained extremely supportive of Musharraf's coup and was also a close friend of Musharraf since 1971 when both participated in a joint operation against the Indian Army. After Mirza's retirement, Musharraf appointed Admiral Shahid Karimullah, with whom Musharraf was trained together in special forces schools in the 1960s, to four-star rank and chief of naval staff.\n\nMusharraf's first foreign visit was to Saudi Arabia on 26 October where he met with King Fahd. After meeting senior Saudi royals, the next day he went to Medina and performed Umrah in Mecca. On 28 October, he went to United Arab Emirates before returning home.\n\nBy the end of October, Musharraf appointed many technocrats and bureaucrats in his Cabinet, including former Citibank executive Shaukat Aziz as Finance Minister and Abdul Sattar as Foreign Minister. In early November, he released details of his assets to the public.\n\nIn late December 1999, Musharraf dealt with his first international crisis when India accused Pakistan's involvement in the Indian Airlines Flight 814 hijacking. Though United States President Bill Clinton pressured Musharraf to ban the alleged group behind the hijacking — Harkat-ul-Mujahideen, Pakistani officials refused because of fears of reprisal from political parties such as Jamaat-e-Islami.\n\nIn March 2000, Musharraf banned political rallies. In a television interview given in 2001, Musharraf openly spoke about the negative role of a few high-ranking officers in the Pakistan Armed Forces in state's affairs. Musharraf labelled many of his senior professors at NDU as \"pseudo-intellectuals\", including the NDU's notable professors, General Aslam Beg and Jehangir Karamat under whom Musharraf studied and served well.\n\nThe Military Police held former prime minister Sharif under house arrest at a government guesthouse and opened his Lahore home to the public in late October 1999. He was formally indicted in November on charges of hijacking, kidnapping, attempted murder, and treason for preventing Musharraf's flight from landing at Karachi airport on the day of the coup. His trial began in early March 2000 in an anti-terrorism court, which is designed for speedy trials. He testified Musharraf began preparations of a coup after the Kargil conflict. Sharif was placed in Adiala Jail, infamous for hosting Zulfikar Ali Bhutto's trial, and his leading defence lawyer, Iqbal Raad, was shot dead in Karachi in mid-March. Sharif's defense team blamed the military for intentionally providing their lawyers with inadequate protection. The court proceedings were widely accused of being a show trial. Sources from Pakistan claimed that Musharraf and his military government's officers were in full mood to exercise tough conditions on Sharif, and intended to send Navaz Sharif to gallows to face similar fate as Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in 1979. It was the pressure on Musharraf exerted by Saudi Arabia and the United States to exile Sharif after it became authenticated that the court is near to place her verdict on Navaz Sharif on his charges, and the court will sentenced Sharif to death. Sharif signed an agreement with Musharraf and his military government and his family was exiled to Saudi Arabia in December 2000.\n\nShortly after Musharraf's takeover, Musharraf issued Oath of Judges Order No. 2000, which required judges to take a fresh oath of office swearing allegiance to the military. On 12 May 2000, the Supreme Court asked Musharraf to hold national elections by 12 October 2002. The residing President Rafiq Tarar remained in office until his voluntary resignation in June 2001. After his resignation, Musharraf formally appointed himself as President on 20 June 2001. In August 2002, he issued the Legal Framework Order No. 2002, which added numerous amendments to the Constitution.\n\nMusharraf called for nationwide political elections in the country after accepting the ruling of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. Musharraf was the first military president to accept the rulings of the Supreme Court and holding free and fair elections in 2002 in his vision to return the democracy in the country. In October 2002, Pakistan held general elections, which the pro-Musharraf PML-Q won wide margins, although it had failed to gain absolute majority. The PML-Q formed government with far-right religious parties coalition, the MMA and the liberals MQM; the coalition legitimised Musharraf's rule.\n\nAfter elections, the PML-Q nominated Zafarullah Khan Jamali for the office of Prime minister, which Musharraf also approved. After first session at the Parliament, Musharraf voluntarily transferred the powers of chief executive to Prime minister of Pakistan Zafarullah Khan Jamali. Musharraf succeeded to pass the XVII amendment, which grants powers to dissolve the parliament, with approval required from the Supreme Court. Within two years, Jamali proved to be an ineffective prime minister to forcefully implement his policies in the country and mounted problems with elite business class of Pakistan. Musharraf accepted the resignation of Jamali and asked his close colleague Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain to appoint a new prime minister in place. Hussain nominated Finance minister Shaukat Aziz, who had been impressive due to his performance as finance minister in 1999. Musharraf regarded Aziz as his right hand and preferable choice for the office of Prime minister. With Aziz appointed as Prime minister, Musharraf transferred all executive powers to Aziz as he trusted Shaukat Aziz. Aziz proved to be extremely capable while running the government and under Aziz's government economic growth reached to a maximum level, which further stabilised Musharraf's presidency. Aziz swiftly, quietly and more quickly undermined the elements seeking to undermine Musharraf, which became a factor that Musharraf had trusted Aziz. During 2004–07, Aziz approved many projects that did not required permission of Musharraf.\n\nIn 2010, all constitutionals changes carried out by Musharraf and Aziz's policies were reverted by the 18th Amendment, and put the country back to its initial position and gave powers to Prime minister to its actual constitutional status.\n\nThe presidency of Pervez Musharraf helped bring the liberal forces to the national level and into prominence, for the first time in the history of Pakistan. He granted national amnesty to the political workers of the liberal parties like Muttahida Qaumi Movement and Pakistan Muslim League (Q), and supported MQM in becoming a central player in the government. Musharraf disbanded the cultural policies of the previous Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, and quickly adopted Benazir Bhutto's cultural policies after disbanding Indian channels in the country.\n\nHis cultural policies liberalized Pakistan's media, and he issued many television licenses to the private-sector to open television centers and media houses. The television dramas, film industry, theatre, music and literature activities, were personally encouraged by Pervez Musharraf. Under his policies, the rock music bands gained a lot appraisal in the country and many concerts in the country were held each week. His cultural policies, the film, theatre, rock and folk music, and television programmes were extremely devoted to and promoted the national spirit of the country. In 2001, Musharraf got on stage with the rock music band, Junoon, and sang national song with the band.\n\nOn political fronts, Mushrraf faced fierce opposition from the ultraconservative alliance, the MMA, led by clergyman Maulana Noorani. In Pakistan, Maulana Noorani was remembered as a mystic religious leader and had preached spiritual aspects of Islam in all over the world as part of the World Islamic Mission. Although, the political deadlock posed by Maulana Noorani was neutralized after Noorani's death, Mushrraf yet had to face the opposition from ARD led by Benazir Bhutto of the PPP.\n\nMusharraf allied with the United States against the Afghan mujahideen in Afghanistan after the September 11 attacks.\n\nA few months after the September 11 attacks, Musharraf gave a speech against extremism. He instituted prohibitions on foreign students' access to studying Islam within Pakistan, an effort that began as an outright ban but was later reduced to restrictions on obtaining visas. On 18 September 2005, Musharraf made a speech before a broad based audience of Jewish leadership, sponsored by the American Jewish Congress's Council for World Jewry, in New York City. In the speech, he denounced Islamic ideology and opened the door to relationships between his secular ideology and Israel. He was widely criticised by Middle Eastern leaders, but was met with some praise among Jewish leadership.\n\nAfter the 2001 Gujarat earthquake, Musharraf expressed his sympathies to Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and sent a plane load of relief supplies to India.\n\nIn the 2004, Musharraf began a series of talks with India to resolve the Kashmir dispute.\n\nIn 2006, King Abdullah visited Pakistan for the first time as King. Musharraf honoured King Abdullah with the \"Nishan-e-Pakistan\". Musharraf received the King Abdul-Aziz Medallion in 2007.\n\nSince September 2001 until his resignation in 2007 from the military, his presidency suffered more highly controversial atomic scandals than any other government in the history of the country. These scandals badly affected his authoritative legitimacy in the country and in the international community. In October 2001, Musharraf authorised a sting operation led by FIA to arrest two physicists Sultan Bashiruddin Mahmood and Chaudhry Abdul Majeed, due to their supposed connection with Taliban after they secretly visited Taliban government led Afghanistan in 2000. The local Pakistani media widely circulated the reports that \"Mahmood had a meeting with Osama bin Laden where Bin Laden had shown the interests of building a radiological weapon.\" Later, it was revealed that neither scientist was able to build such designs of the bomb and had lacked scientific knowledge of such weapons. The credibility of these two scientists were put in great doubts about their role in country's atomic bomb program. In December 2001, he authorized the security hearings of these two scientists and were taken into the custody of the JAG Branch (JAG) where the security hearings continued until early 2002.\n\nAnother widely controversial scandal during Musharraf's presidency arose as a consequence of the disclosure of atomic proliferation by Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan. Earlier on 27 February 2001, Musharraf spoke highly of Abdul Qadeer Khan in a farewell state dinner in Islamabad. Personally approving the appointment Science Advisor to the Government to Abdul Qadeer Khan, also in 2001. In 2004, Musharraf relieved Qadeer Khan from his post and initially denied knowledge of government's and the armed force's role in nuclear proliferation, despite Qadeer Khan urging that Musharraf was the \"Big Boss\" of the proliferation ring. Following this, Musharraf authorized a national security hearings of Qadeer Khan, which continued until his resignation from the army in 2007. According to Zahid Malik, Musharraf and the military establishment at that time, were exercised rough actions against Qadeer Khan to prove the loyalty of Pakistan to the United States and Western world.\nThe investigations back fired on Musharraf and a wide scale public opinion turned against him soon after. The massive and populist ARD movement, containing the major political parties especially the rivals PML and the PPP, used that issue politically to malign Musharraf and to bring down his presidency alone.\n\nAt the public circles, the debriefings of Abdul Qadeer Khan had severely damaged Musharraf's own public image and his political prestige in the country. Musharraf faced bitter domestic criticism for singularly attempting to vilify Qadeer Khan, specifically from opposition leader Benazir Bhutto who issued harassing statements towards Musharraf's role. In an interview to \"Daily Times\", Benazir Bhutto maintained that Abdul Qadeer Khan was made \"scapegoat\" in this nuclear proliferation scandal and she didn't \"believe that such a big scandal could have taken place under the nose of General Musharraf\". The long standing ally of Musharraf, the MQM, gave bitter and a public acrimonious criticism to Musharraf over his handling of Qadeer Khan. The ARD movement and the political parties further politicized this issue after tapping a public anger and mass demonstration all over the country against Musharraf. The credibility of the United States was also badly damaged over this issue; the United States refrained itself from pressuring Musharraf to take further actions against Qadeer Khan due to their strategic calculations. While Qadeer Khan remained insanely popular in the country, on the other hand, Musharraf could not sustained to this political pressure and his presidency was further weakened after being harassed by Benazir Bhutto over this issue. In a quick move, Musharraf quickly pardoned Qadeer Khan in exchange for cooperation and issue confinement orders against Khan that limited Khan's movement. Musharraf wasted no time to hand over the case of Abdul Qadeer Khan into the hands of Prime minister Aziz who had been supportive towards Qadeer Khan and spoke highly of him in public in 2007; personally, \"thanking\" Qadeer Khan, and quoting: \"The services of Dr. Qadeer Khan are unforgettable for the country.\"\n\nOn 4 July 2008, in an interview, Qadeer Khan laid the blame on President Musharraf and later on Benazir Bhutto for transferring the technology, claiming that Musharraf was aware of all the deals and he was the \"Big Boss\" for those deals. Abdul Qadeer Khan said that, \"Musharraf gave centrifuges to North Korea in a 2000 shipment supervised by the armed forces. The equipment was sent in a North Korean plane loaded under the supervision of Pakistan security officials.\" Nuclear weapons expert David Albright of the ISIS agrees that Qadeer Khan's activities were government-sanctioned. After Musharraf's resignation, Qadeer Khan was finally released from house arrest by the executive order of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. After Musharraf departed from the country, the new Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Tärik Majid terminated all further debriefings of Abdul Qadeer Khan. A complicating factor is that, few believed that Qadeer Khan acted alone and the affair risks gravely damaging the Armed Forces, which oversaw and controlled the nuclear weapons development and of which Musharraf was Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, until his resignation from military service on 28 November 2007.\n\nWhen Musharraf came to power in 1999, he promised that the corruption in the government bureaucracy would be cleaned up. However, some claimed that the level of corruption did not diminish throughout Musharraf's time.\n\nIn December 2003, Musharraf made a deal with MMA, a six-member coalition of far-right Islamic parties, agreeing to leave the army by 31 December 2004. With that party's support, pro-Musharraf legislators were able to muster the two-thirds supermajority required to pass the Seventeenth Amendment, which retroactively legalised Musharraf's 1999 coup and many of his decrees. In late 2004, Musharraf went back on his agreement with the MMA and pro-Musharraf legislators in the Parliament passed a bill allowing Musharraf to keep both offices. Constitution Article 63 clause (1) paragraph (d), read with proviso to Article 41 clause (7) paragraph (b), allows the President to hold dual office.\n\nOn 1 January 2004, Musharraf had won a confidence vote in the Electoral College of Pakistan, consisting of both houses of Parliament and the four provincial assemblies. Musharraf received 658 out of 1170 votes, a 56% majority, but many opposition and Islamic members of parliament walked out to protest the vote. As a result of this vote, his term was extended to 2007.\n\nPrime Minister Zafarullah Khan Jamali resigned on 26 June 2004, after losing the support of the Musharraf's party, PML(Q). His resignation was at least partially due to his public differences with the party chairman, Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain. This was rumored to have happened at Musharraf's command. Jamali had been appointed with the support of Musharraf's and the pro-Musharraf PML(Q). Most PML(Q) parliamentarians formerly belonged to the Pakistan Muslim League party led by Sharif, and most ministers of the cabinet were formerly senior members of other parties, joining the PML(Q) after the elections upon being offered positions. Musharraf nominated Shaukat Aziz, the minister for finance and a former employee of Citibank and head of \"Citibank Private Banking\" as the new prime minister.\n\nThe National Assembly voted in favour of the \"Women's Protection Bill\" on 15 November 2006 and the Senate approved it on 23 November 2006. President General Pervez Musharraf signed into law the \"Women's Protection Bill\", on 1 December 2006. The bill places rape laws under the penal code and allegedly does away with harsh conditions that previously required victims to produce four male witnesses and exposed the victims to prosecution for adultery, if they were unable to prove the crime.\nHowever, the Women's Protection bill has been criticised heavily by many for paying continued lip service and failing to address the actual problem by its roots: repealing the Hudood Ordinance. In this context, Musharraf has also been criticized by women and human rights activists for not following up his words by action. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) said that \"The so-called Women's Protection Bill is a farcical attempt at making Hudood Ordinances palatable\" outlining the issues of the bill and the continued impact on women.\n\nHis government increased reserved seats for women in assemblies, to increase women's representation and make their presence more effective. Compared with 1988 seats in the National Assembly were increased from 20 to 60. In provincial assemblies 128 seats were reserved for women. This situation has brought out increase participation of women for 1988 and 2008 elections.\n\nIn March 2005, a couple of months after the rape of a Pakistani physician, Dr. Shazia Khalid, working on a government gas plant in the remote Balochistan province, Musharraf was criticised for pronouncing, Captain Hammad, a fellow military man and the accused in the case, innocent before the judicial inquiry was complete. Following the rape, riots erupted in the local Bugti clan of the province, where the rape took place. They saw a rape in their heartland as being a breach of their code of honour and attacked the gas plant. In an uncompromising response Musharraf sent tanks, helicopters and an extra 4,500 soldiers to guard the installation. If the tribesmen failed to stop shooting, he warned on television, \"they will not know what hit them.\" Shazia was later forced and threatened by the government to leave the country.\n\nIn an interview to \"The Washington Post\" in September 2005 Musharraf said that Pakistani women, who were the victims of rape, treated rape as a \"moneymaking concern\" and were only interested in the publicity in order to make money and get a Canadian visa. He subsequently denied making these comments, but \"The Washington Post\" made available an audio recording of the interview, in which Musharraf could be heard making the quoted remarks. Musharraf also denied Mukhtaran Mai, a Pakistani rape victim, the right to travel abroad, until pressured by US State Department. The remarks made by Musharraf sparked outrage and protests both internationally and in Pakistan by various groups i.e. women groups, activists. In a rally, held close to the presidential palace and Pakistan's parliament, hundreds of women demonstrated in Pakistan demanding Musharraf apologise for the controversial remarks about female rape victims.\n\nIn 2000 Kamran Atif, an alleged member of Harkat-ul Mujahideen al-Alami, tried to assassinate Musharraf. Atif was sentenced to death in 2006 by an Anti Terrorism Court. On 14 December 2003, Musharraf survived an assassination attempt when a powerful bomb went off minutes after his highly guarded convoy crossed a bridge in Rawalpindi. It was the third such attempt during his four-year rule. On 25 December 2003, two suicide bombers tried to assassinate Musharraf, but their car bombs failed to kill him; 16 others died instead. Musharraf escaped with only a cracked windshield on his car. Amjad Farooqi was an alleged mastermind behind these attempts, and was killed by Pakistani forces in 2004 after an extensive manhunt.\n\nOn 6 July 2007, there was another attempted assassination, when an unknown group fired a 7.62 submachine gun at Musharraf's plane as it took off from a runway in Rawalpindi. Security also recovered 2 anti-aircraft guns, from which no shots had been fired. On 17 July 2007, Pakistani police detained 39 people in relation to the attempted assassination of Musharraf. The suspects were detained at an undisclosed location by a joint team of Punjab Police, the Federal Investigation Agency and other Pakistani intelligence agencies.\n\nOn 8 October 2007, a military helicopter escorting President Musharraf, on his visit to the earthquake-affected areas on its second anniversary, crashed near Muzaffarabad, killing four people, including a brigadier. The Puma helicopter crashed at Majohi near Garhi Dupatta in Azad Kashmir at 11:15 am due to technical fault. Those killed included Brigadier Zahoor Ahmed, Naik Ajmal, Sepoy Rashid and PTV cameraman Muhammad Farooq, while President's Media Advisor Maj Gen (R) Rashid Qureshi sustained injuries. Twelve people were on board the helicopter.\n\nBy August 2007, polls showed 64 percent of Pakistanis did not want another Musharraf term. Controversies involving the atomic issues, Lal Masjid incident, unpopular operation in West, suspension of famed Chief Justice, and widely circulated criticisms from rivals, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif, had brutalized the personal image of Musharraf in public and political circles. More importantly, with Shaukat Aziz departing from the office of Prime Minister, Musharraf could not have sustained his presidency any longer and dramatically fell from the presidency within a matter of eight months, after popular and mass public movements successfully called for his impeachment for the actions taken during his presidency.\n\nOn 9 March 2007, Musharraf suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry and pressed corruption charges against him. He replaced him with ally Acting Chief Justice Javed Iqbal.\n\nMusharraf's moves sparked protests among Pakistani lawyers. On 12 March 2007, lawyers started a campaign called Judicial Activism across Pakistan and began boycotting all court procedures in protest against the suspension. In Islamabad, as well as other cities such as Lahore, Karachi, and Quetta hundreds of lawyers dressed in black suits attended rallies, condemning the suspension as unconstitutional. Slowly the expressions of support for the ousted Chief Justice gathered momentum and by May, protesters and opposition parties took out huge rallies against Musharraf and his tenure as army chief was also challenged in the courts.\n\nLal Masjid had a religious school for women and the Jamia Hafsa madrassa, which was attached to the mosque. A male madrassa was only a few minutes drive away. The mosque was often attended by prominent politicians including prime ministers, army chiefs, and presidents.\n\nIn April 2007, the mosque administration started to encourage attacks on local video shops, alleging that they were selling porn films, and massage parlours, which were alleged to be used as brothels. These attacks were often carried out by the mosque's female students. In July 2007, a confrontation occurred when government authorities made a decision to stop the student violence and send police officers to arrest the responsible individuals and the madrassa administration.\n\nThis development led to a standoff between police forces and armed students. Mosque leaders and students refused to surrender and kept firing on police from inside the mosque building. Both sides suffered casualties.\n\nAlso on 8 August 2007, Benazir Bhutto spoke about her secret meeting with Musharraf on 27 July, in an interview on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nOn 14 September 2007, Deputy Information Minister Tariq Azim stated that Bhutto won't be deported, but must face corruption suits against her. He clarified Sharif's and Bhutto's right to return to Pakistan. Bhutto returned from eight years exile on 18 October. On 17 September 2007, Bhutto accused Musharraf's allies of pushing Pakistan to crisis by refusal to restore democracy and share power. Musharraf called for a three-day mourning period after Bhutto's assassination on 27 December 2007.\n\nSharif returned to Pakistan in September 2007, and was immediately arrested and taken into custody at the airport. He was sent back to Saudi Arabia. Saudi intelligence chief Muqrin bin Abdul-Aziz Al Saud and Lebanese politician Saad Hariri arrived separately in Islamabad on 8 September 2007, the former with a message from Saudi King Abdullah and the latter after a meeting with Nawaz Sharif in London. After meeting President General Pervez Musharraf for two-and-a-half hours discussing Nawaz Sharif's possible return. On arrival in Saudi Arabia, Nawaz Sharif was received by Prince Muqrin bin Abdul-Aziz, the Saudi intelligence chief, who had met Musharraf in Islamabad the previous day. That meeting had been followed by a rare press conference, at which he had warned that Sharif should not violate the terms of King Abdullah's agreement of staying out of politics for 10 years.\n\nOn 2 October 2007, Musharraf appointed General Tariq Majid as Chairman Joint Chiefs Committee and approved General Ashfaq Kayani as vice chief of the army starting 8 October. When Musharraf resigned from military on 28 November 2007, Kayani became Chief of Army Staff.\n\nIn a March 2007 interview, Musharraf said that he intended to stay in office for another five years.\n\nA nine-member panel of Supreme Court judges deliberated on six petitions (including Jamaat-e-Islami's, Pakistan's largest Islamic group) for disqualification of Musharraf as presidential candidate. Bhutto stated that her party may join other opposition groups, including Sharif's.\n\nOn 28 September 2007, in a 6–3 vote, Judge Rana Bhagwandas's court removed obstacles to Musharraf's election bid.\n\nOn 3 November 2007 Musharraf declared emergency rule across Pakistan. He suspended the Constitution, imposed State of Emergency, and fired the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court again. In Islamabad, troops entered the Supreme Court building, arrested the judges and kept them under detention in their homes. Troops were deployed inside state-run TV and radio stations, while independent channels went off air. Public protests mounted against Musharraf.\n\nGeneral elections were held on 18 February 2008, in which the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) polled the highest votes and won the most seats. On 23 March 2008, President Musharraf said an \"era of democracy\" had begun in Pakistan and that he had put the country \"on the track of development and progress\". On 22 March, the PPP named former parliament speaker Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani as its candidate for the country's next prime minister, to lead a coalition government united against him.\n\nOn 7 August 2008, the Pakistan Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League (N) agreed to force Musharraf to step down and begin his impeachment. Asif Ali Zardari and Nawaz Sharif announced sending a formal request or joint charge sheet that he step down, and impeach him through parliamentary process upon refusal. Musharraf refused to step down. A charge-sheet had been drafted, and was to be presented to parliament. It included Mr Musharraf’s first seizure of power in 1999—at the expense of Nawaz Sharif, the PML(N)'s leader, whom Mr Musharraf imprisoned and exiled—and his second last November, when he declared an emergency as a means to get re-elected president. The charge-sheet also listed some of Mr Musharraf's contributions to the \"war on terror.\"\n\nMusharraf delayed his departure for the Beijing Olympics, by a day. On 11 August, the government summoned the national assembly.\n\nOn 18 August 2008, Musharraf announced his resignation. On the following day, he defended his nine-year rule in an hour-long televised speech. However, public opinion was largely against him by this time. A poll conducted a day after his resignation showed that 63% Pakistanis welcomed Musharraf's decision to step down. while only 15% were unhappy with it. On 23 November 2008 he left for exile in London where he arrived the following day.\n\nAfter his resignation, Musharraf went to perform a holy pilgrimage to Mecca. He then went on a speaking and lectureship tour through the Middle East, Europe, and United States. Chicago-based Embark LLC was one of the international public-relations firms trying to land Musharraf as a highly paid keynote speaker. According to Embark President David B. Wheeler, the speaking fee for Musharraf would be $150,000–200,000 for a day plus jet and other V.I.P. arrangements on the ground. In 2011, he also lectured at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace on politics and racism where he also authored and published a paper with George Perkvich.\n\nSince quitting politics in 2008, Musharraf has lived in London since 24 November 2008 in self-imposed exile.\n\nMusharraf launched his own political party, the All Pakistan Muslim League, in June 2010.\n\nThe PML-N has tried to get Pervez Musharraf to stand trial in an article 6 trial for treason in relation to the emergency on 3 November 2007. The Prime Minister of Pakistan Yousaf Raza Gilani has said a consensus resolution is required in national assembly for an article 6 trial of Pervez Musharraf\"I have no love lost for Musharraf ... if parliament decides to try him, I will be with parliament. Article 6 cannot be applied to one individual ... those who supported him are today in my cabinet and some of them have also joined the PML-N ... the MMA, the MQM and the PML-Q supported him ... this is why I have said that it is not doable,\" said the Prime Minister while informally talking to editors and also replying to questions by journalists at an Iftar-dinner he had hosted for them. Although the constitution of Pakistan, Article 232 and Article 236, provides for emergencies, and on 15 February 2008, the \"interim\" Pakistan Supreme Court attempted to validated the Proclamation of Emergency on 3 November 2007, the Provisional Constitution Order No 1 of 2007 and the Oath of Office (Judges) Order, 2007, after the Supreme Court judges were restored to the bench, on 31 July 2009, they ruled that Musharraf had violated the constitution when he declared emergency rule in 2007.\n\nSaudi Arabia exerted its influence to attempt to prevent treason charges, under Article 6 of the constitution, from being brought against Musharraf, citing existing agreements between the states, as well as pressuring Sharif directly. As it turned out, it was not Sharif's decision to make.\n\nAbbottabad's district and sessions judge in a missing person's case passed judgment asking the authorities to declare Pervez Musharraf a proclaimed offender. On 11 February 2011 the Anti Terrorism Court, issued an arrest warrant for Musharraf and charged him with conspiracy to commit murder of Benazir Bhutto. On 8 March 2011, the Sindh High Court registered treason charges against him.\n\nRegarding the Lahore attack on Sri Lankan players, Musharraf criticized the police commandos' inability to kill any of the gunmen, saying \"If this was the elite force I would expect them to have shot down those people who attacked them, the reaction, their training should be on a level that if anyone shoots toward the company they are guarding, in less than three seconds they should shoot the man down.\"\n\nRegarding the Blasphemy laws in Pakistan, Musharraf said that Pakistan is sensitive to religious issues and that the blasphemy law should stay.\n\nSince the start of 2011, news had circulated that Musharraf would return to Pakistan before the 2013 general election. He himself vowed this in several interviews. On \"Piers Morgan Tonight\", Musharraf announced his plans to return to Pakistan on 23 March 2012 in order to seek the Presidency in 2013. The Taliban and Talal Bugti threatened to kill him should he return. On 3 April 2014, Musharraf escaped the fourth assassination attempt, resulting in an injury of a woman, according to Pakistani news.\n\nOn 24 March 2013, after a four-year self-imposed exile, he returned to Pakistan. He landed at Jinnah International Airport, Karachi, via a chartered Emirates flight with Pakistani journalists and foreign news correspondents at around 12:40 PM PST. Hundreds of his supporters and workers of APML were at Karachi airport to welcome him. He also delivered a short public speech outside the airport lounge.\n\nOn 16 April 2013, an electoral tribunal in Chitral declared Musharraf disqualified from candidacy there, effectively quashing his political ambitions (several other constituencies had previously rejected Musharraf's nominations). A spokesperson for Musharraf's party said the ruling was \"biased\" and they would appeal the decision.\n\nWhile Musharraf had technically been on bail since his return to the country, on 18 April 2013 The Islamabad High Court ordered the arrest of Musharraf on charges relating to the 2007 arrests of judges. Musharraf escaped from court with the aid of his security personnel, and went to his farm-house mansion. The following day Musharraf was under house arrest but was later transferred to police headquarters in Islamabad. Musharraf characterized his arrest as \"politically motivated\" and his legal team has declared their intention to fight the charges in the Supreme Court. Further to the charges of this arrest, the Senate also passed a resolution petitioning that Musharraf be charged with high treason in relation to the events of 2007.\n\nOn Friday 26 April 2013 the court ordered house arrest for Musharraf in connection with the death of Benazir Bhutto. On 20 May, a Pakistani court granted bail to Musharraf. On 12 June 2014 Sindh High Court allowed him to travel abroad.\n\nOn 25 June 2013, Musharraf was named as prime suspect in two separate cases, first Benazir Bhutto's assassination and second being Akbar Bugti case by Federal Investigation Agency for masterminding a conspiracy to assassinations of Benazir Bhutto and Akbar Bugti.\n\nOn 20 August 2013, a Pakistani court indicted Musharraf in the assassination of Bhutto.\n\nOn 2 September 2013, a FIR was registered against Pervez Musharraf for his role in the Lal Masjid Operation 2007. The FIR was lodged after the son of slain hard line cleric Abdul Rahid Ghazi (who was killed during the operation) asked authorities to bring charges against Musharraf.\n\nOn 18 March 2016, Musharraf's name was removed from the Exit Control List and he was allowed to travel abroad, citing medical treatment. He currently lives in Dubai in self-imposed exile, but has vowed to return to the country. Musharraf appears as a political analyst on his weekly television show \"Sab Se Pehle Pakistan with President Musharraf\", hosted by BOL News.\n\nOn 31 August 2017, The anti-terrorism court in Rawalpindi convicted him an \"absconder\" in Bhutto's murder case. The court also ordered that his property in Pakistan be seized.\n\nMusharraf is the second son of his parents and has two brothers—Javed and Naved. Javed retired as a high-level official in Pakistan's civil service. Naved is an anesthesiologist who has lived in Chicago since completing his residency training at Loyola University Medical Center in 1979.\n\nMusharraf married Sehba on 28 December 1968. Sehba is from Karachi. They have a daughter, Ayla, an architect married to film director Asim Raza, and a son, Bilal.\n\nMusharraf published his autobiography—\"\"—in 2006.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1847057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1847057", "title": "Predicate (grammar)", "text": "Predicate (grammar)\n\nThere are two competing notions of the predicate in theories of grammar. The competition between these two concepts has generated confusion concerning the use of the term \"predicate\" in theories of grammar. This article considers both of these notions.\n\nThe first concerns traditional grammar, which tends to view a predicate as one of two main parts of a sentence, the other part being the subject; the purpose of the predicate is to complete an idea about the subject, such as what it does or what it is like.\n\nThe second notion was derived from work in predicate calculus (predicate logic, first order logic) and is prominent in modern theories of syntax and grammar. In this approach, the predicate of a sentence mostly corresponds to the main verb and any auxiliaries that accompany the main verb; whereas the arguments of that predicate (e.g. the subject and object noun phrases) are outside the predicate.\n\nThe predicate in traditional grammar is inspired by propositional logic of antiquity (as opposed to the more modern predicate logic). A predicate is seen as a property that a subject has or is characterized by. A predicate is therefore an expression that can be \"true of\" something. Thus, the expression \"is moving\" is true of anything that is moving. This classical understanding of predicates was adopted more or less directly into Latin and Greek grammars; and from there, it made its way into English grammars, where it is applied directly to the analysis of sentence structure. It is also the understanding of predicates as defined in English-language dictionaries. The predicate is one of the two main parts of a sentence (the other being the subject, which the predicate modifies). The predicate must contain a verb, and the verb requires or permits other elements to complete the predicate, or it precludes them from doing so. These elements are objects (direct, indirect, prepositional), predicatives, and adjuncts:\n\nThe predicate provides information about the subject, such as what the subject is, what the subject is doing, or what the subject is like. The relation between a subject and its predicate is sometimes called a nexus. A \"predicative nominal\" is a noun phrase, such as in \"George III is the king of England\", \"the king of England\" being the predicative nominal. The subject and predicative nominal must be connected by a linking verb, also called a copula. A \"predicative adjective\" is an adjective, such as in \"Ivano is attractive\", \"attractive\" being the predicative adjective. The subject and predicative adjective must also be connected by a copula.\n\nThis traditional understanding of predicates has a concrete reflex in all phrase structure theories of syntax. These theories divide the generic declarative sentence (S) into a noun phrase (NP) and verb phrase (VP), e.g. \n\nThe subject NP is shown in green, and the predicate VP in blue. This concept of sentence structure stands in stark contrast to dependency structure theories of grammar, which place the finite verb (= conjugated verb) as the root of all sentence structure and thus reject this binary NP-VP division.\n\nMost modern theories of syntax and grammar take their inspiration for the theory of predicates from predicate calculus as associated with Gottlob Frege. This understanding sees predicates as relations or functions over arguments. The predicate serves either to assign a property to a single argument or to relate two or more arguments to each other. Sentences consist of predicates and their arguments (and adjuncts) and are thus predicate-argument structures, whereby a given predicate is seen as linking its arguments into a greater structure. This understanding of predicates sometimes renders a predicate and its arguments in the following manner:\n\nPredicates are placed on the left outside of brackets, whereas the predicate's arguments are placed inside the brackets. One acknowledges the valency of predicates, whereby a given predicate can be avalent (not shown), monovalent (\"laughed\" in the first sentence), divalent (\"helped\" in the second sentence), or trivalent (\"gave\" in the third sentence). These types of representations are analogous to formal semantic analyses, where one is concerned with the proper account of scope facts of quantifiers and logical operators. Concerning basic sentence structure, however, these representations suggest above all that verbs are predicates and the noun phrases that they appear with are their arguments. On this understanding of the sentence, the binary division of the clause into a subject NP and a predicate VP is hardly possible. Instead, the verb is the predicate, and the noun phrases are its arguments. \n\nOther function words – e.g. auxiliary verbs, certain prepositions, phrasal particles, etc. – are viewed as part of the predicate. The matrix predicates are in bold in the following examples:\n\nNote that not just verbs can be part of the matrix predicate, but also adjectives, nouns, prepositions, etc. The understanding of predicates suggested by these examples sees the main predicate of a clause consisting of at least one verb and a variety of other possible words. The words of the predicate need not form a string nor a constituent, but they can be interrupted by their arguments (or adjuncts). The approach to predicates illustrated with these sentences is widespread in Europe, particularly in Germany. \n\nThis modern understanding of predicates is compatible with the dependency grammar approach to sentence structure, which places the finite verb as the root of all structure, e.g. \n\nThe matrix predicate is (again) marked in blue and its two arguments are in green. While the predicate cannot be construed as a constituent in the formal sense, it is a catena. Barring a discontinuity, predicates and their arguments are always catenae in dependency structures.\n\nSome theories of grammar seek to avoid the confusion generated by the competition between the two predicate notions by acknowledging \"predicators\". The term \"predicate\" is employed in the traditional sense of the binary division of the clause, whereas the term \"predicator\" is used to denote the more modern understanding of matrix predicates. On this approach, the periphrastic verb catenae briefly illustrated in the previous section are predicators. Further illustrations are provided next: \n\nThe predicators are in blue. These verb catenae generally contain a main verb and potentially one or more auxiliary verbs. The auxiliary verbs help express functional meaning of aspect and voice. Since the auxiliary verbs contribute functional information only, they do not qualify as separate predicators, but rather each time they form the matrix predicator with the main verb.\n\nThe seminal work of Greg Carlson distinguishes between types of predicates. Based on Carlson's work, predicates have been divided into the following sub-classes, which roughly pertain to how a predicate relates to its subject.\n\nA \"stage-level predicate\" is true of a \"temporal stage\" of its subject. For example, if John is \"hungry\", then he typically will eat some food. His state of being hungry therefore lasts a certain amount of time, and not his entire lifespan. Stage-level predicates can occur in a wide range of grammatical constructions and are probably the most versatile kind of predicate.\n\nAn \"individual-level predicate\" is true throughout the existence of an individual. For example, if John is \"smart\", this is a property that he has, regardless of which particular point in time we consider. Individual-level predicates are more restricted than stage-level ones. Individual-level predicates cannot occur in \"presentational\" \"there\" sentences (a star in front of a sentence indicates that it is odd or ill-formed):\n\nStage-level predicates allow modification by manner adverbs and other adverbial modifiers. Individual-level predicates do not, e.g.\n\nWhen an individual-level predicate occurs in past tense, it gives rise to what is called a \"lifetime effect\": The subject must be assumed to be dead or otherwise out of existence.\n\nA \"kind-level predicate\" is true of a kind of thing, but cannot be applied to individual members of the kind. An example of this is the predicate \"are widespread\". One cannot meaningfully say of a particular individual John that he is widespread. One may only say this of kinds, as in\n\nCertain types of noun phrases cannot be the subject of a kind-level predicate. We have just seen that a proper name cannot be. Singular indefinite noun phrases are also banned from this environment:\n\nPredicates may also be collective or distributive. Collective predicates require their subjects to be somehow plural, while distributive ones do not. An example of a collective predicate is \"formed a line\". This predicate can only stand in a nexus with a plural subject:\n\nOther examples of collective predicates include \"meet in the woods\", \"surround the house\", \"gather in the hallway\" and \"carry the piano together\". Note that the last one (\"carry the piano together\") can be made non-collective by removing the word \"together\". Quantifiers differ with respect to whether or not they can be the subject of a collective predicate. For example, quantifiers formed with \"all the\" can, while ones formed with \"every\" or \"each\" cannot.\n"}
{"id": "6485641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6485641", "title": "Relevant alternatives theory", "text": "Relevant alternatives theory\n\nRelevant alternatives theory (RAT) is an epistemological theory of knowledge, according to which to know some proposition \"p\" one must be able to rule out all the relevant alternatives to \"p\".\n\nRelevant alternatives theory was primarily developed by Fred Dretske. It states that \"knowing a true proposition one believes at a time requires being able to rule out relevant alternatives to that proposition at that time.\" One way that Dretske attempts to motivate RAT is with examples, such as the following:\n\nYou take your son to the zoo, see several zebras, and, when questioned by your son, tell him they are zebras. Do you know they are zebras? Well, most of us would have little hesitation saying that we did know this. We know what zebras look like, and, besides, this is the city zoo and the animals are in a pen clearly marked \"Zebras.\" Yet, something's being a zebra implies that it is not a mule and, in particular, not a mule cleverly disguised by the zoo authorities to look like a zebra. Do you know that these animals are not mules cleverly disguised by the zoo authorities to look like zebras?\n\nThe relevant alternatives theorist claims that one does know that they are zebras, provided that any relevant alternatives (e.g. that they are lions, that they are mules, etc.) can be ruled out and any other alternatives (e.g. the possibility of the zoo authorities cleverly disguising mules to look like zebras) are \"not\" relevant in the context in which knowledge is being attributed. The important question, however, is: What makes an alternative relevant?\n\nJason Stanley has argued that Dretske's relevant alternative theory was the starting point for the development of contextualism in epistemology, specifically with the subsequent work done by Alvin Goldman and Gail Stine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1345074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1345074", "title": "René Girard", "text": "René Girard\n\nRené Noël Théophile Girard (; ; 25 December 1923 – 4 November 2015) was a French historian, literary critic, and philosopher of social science whose work belongs to the tradition of anthropological philosophy. Girard was the author of nearly thirty books, with his writings spanning many academic domains. Although the reception of his work is different in each of these areas, there is a growing body of secondary literature on his work and his influence on disciplines such as literary criticism, critical theory, anthropology, theology, psychology, mythology, sociology, economics, cultural studies, and philosophy.\n\nGirard's fundamental ideas, which he developed throughout his career and provided the foundation for his thinking, were that desire is mimetic (i.e., all of our desires are borrowed from other people); that all conflict originates in mimetic desire (mimetic rivalry); that the scapegoat mechanism is the origin of sacrifice and the foundation of human culture, and religion was necessary in human evolution to control the violence that can come from mimetic rivalry; and that the Bible reveals these ideas and denounces the scapegoat mechanism.\n\nGirard was also a member of the Académie française from 2005 until his death on 4 November 2015.\n\nGirard was born in Avignon on 25 December 1923. Between 1943 and 1947 he studied medieval history at the École des Chartes, Paris. The subject of his thesis was \"Private life in Avignon in the second half of the fifteenth century\" (\"\"). \n\nIn 1947, Girard went to Indiana University on a one-year fellowship. He was to spend most of his career in the United States. The subject of his PhD at Indiana University was \"American Opinion of France, 1940–1943\". Although his research was in history, he was also assigned to teach French literature, the field in which he would first make his reputation as a literary critic by publishing influential essays on such authors as Albert Camus and Marcel Proust. He received his PhD in 1950 and stayed at Indiana University until 1953. He occupied positions at Duke University and Bryn Mawr College from 1953 to 1957, after which he moved to Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, where he became a full professor in 1961. In that year, he also published his first book: (\"Deceit, Desire and the Novel\", 1966).\n\nFor several years he moved back and forth between the State University of New York at Buffalo and Johns Hopkins University. Books he published in this period include (1972; \"Violence and the Sacred\", 1977) and (1978; \"Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World\", 1987).\n\nIn 1981 he became Andrew B. Hammond Professor of French Language, Literature, and Civilization at Stanford University, where he stayed until his retirement in 1995. During this period, he published (1982), (1985), \"A Theatre of Envy: William Shakespeare\" (1991) and (1994). In 1990, a group of scholars founded the Colloquium on Violence and Religion (COV&R) with a goal to \"explore, criticize, and develop the mimetic model of the relationship between violence and religion in the genesis and maintenance of culture.\" This organization organizes a yearly conference devoted to topics related to mimetic theory, scapegoating, violence, and religion. Girard was Honorary Chair of COV&R. Co-founder and first president of the COV&R was the Roman Catholic theologian Raymund Schwager.\n\nIn 1985, he received his first honorary degree from the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam in the Netherlands; several others followed. On 17 March 2005 Girard was elected to the Académie française.\n\nHis work has inspired interdisciplinary research projects and experimental research such as the Mimetic Theory project sponsored by the John Templeton Foundation.\n\nOn 4 November 2015 Girard died at his residence in Stanford, California, following a long illness.\n\nAfter almost a decade of teaching French literature in the United States, Girard began to develop a new way of speaking about literary texts. Beyond the \"uniqueness\" of individual works, he looked for their common structural properties, having observed that characters in great fiction evolved in a system of relationships otherwise common to the wider generality of novels. But there was a distinction to be made:\n\nSo there did indeed exist \"psychological laws\" as Proust calls them. These laws and this system are the consequences of a fundamental reality grasped by the novelists, which Girard called mimetic desire, \"the mimetic character of desire.\" This is the content of his first book, \"Deceit, Desire and the Novel\" (1961). We borrow our desires from others. Far from being autonomous, our desire for a certain object is always provoked by the desire of another person—the model—for this same object. This means that the relationship between the subject and the object is not direct: there is always a triangular relationship of subject, model, and object. Through the object, one is drawn to the model, whom Girard calls the mediator: it is in fact the model who is sought. Girard calls desire \"metaphysical\" in the measure that, as soon as a desire is something more than a simple need or appetite, \"all desire is a desire to be\", it is an aspiration, the dream of a fullness attributed to the mediator.\n\nMediation is external when the mediator of the desire is socially beyond the reach of the subject or, for example, a fictional character, as in the case of Amadis de Gaula and Don Quixote. The hero lives a kind of folly that nonetheless remains optimistic. Mediation is internal when the mediator is at the same level as the subject. The mediator then transforms into a rival and an obstacle to the acquisition of the object, whose value increases as the rivalry grows. This is the universe of the novels of Stendhal, Flaubert, Proust and Dostoevsky, which are particularly studied in this book.\n\nThrough their characters, our own behaviour is displayed. Everyone holds firmly to the illusion of the authenticity of one's own desires; the novelists implacably expose all the diversity of lies, dissimulations, maneuvers, and the snobbery of the Proustian heroes; these are all but \"tricks of desire\", which prevent one from facing the truth: envy and jealousy. These characters, desiring the being of the mediator, project upon him superhuman virtues while at the same time depreciating themselves, making him a god while making themselves slaves, in the measure that the mediator is an obstacle to them. Some, pursuing this logic, come to seek the failures that are the signs of the proximity of the ideal to which they aspire. This can manifest as a heightened experience of the universal pseudo-masochism inherent in seeking the unattainable, which can, of course, turn into sadism should the actor play this part in reverse.\n\nThis fundamental focus on mimetic desire would be pursued by Girard throughout the rest of his career. The stress on imitation in humans was not a popular subject when Girard developed his theories, but today there is independent support for his claims coming from empirical research in psychology and neuroscience (see below). Farneti (2013) also discusses the role of mimetic desire in intractable conflicts, using the case study of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and referencing Girard's theory. He posits that intensified conflict is a product of the imitative behaviors of Israelis and Palestinians, entitling them \"Siamese twins\".\n\nSince the mimetic rivalry that develops from the struggle for the possession of the objects is contagious, it leads to the threat of violence. Girard himself says, \"If there is a normal order in societies, it must be the fruit of an anterior crisis.\" Turning his interest towards the anthropological domain, Girard began to study anthropological literature and proposed his second great hypothesis: the scapegoat mechanism, which is at the origin of archaic religion and which he sets forth in his second book \"Violence and the Sacred\" (1972), a work on fundamental anthropology.\n\nIf two individuals desire the same thing, there will soon be a third, then a fourth. This process quickly snowballs. Since from the beginning desire is aroused by the other (and not by the object) the object is soon forgotten and the mimetic conflict transforms into a general antagonism. At this stage of the crisis the antagonists will no longer imitate each other's desires for an object, but each other's antagonism. They wanted to share the same object, but now they want to destroy the same enemy. So, a paroxysm of violence would tend to focus on an arbitrary victim and a unanimous antipathy would, mimetically, grow against him. The brutal elimination of the victim would reduce the appetite for violence that possessed everyone a moment before, and leaves the group suddenly appeased and calm. The victim lies before the group, appearing simultaneously as the origin of the crisis and as the one responsible for this miracle of renewed peace. He becomes sacred, that is to say the bearer of the prodigious power of defusing the crisis and bringing peace back. Girard believes this to be the genesis of archaic religion, of ritual sacrifice as the repetition of the original event, of myth as an account of this event, of the taboos that forbid access to all the objects at the origin of the rivalries that degenerated into this absolutely traumatizing crisis. This religious elaboration takes place gradually over the course of the repetition of the mimetic crises whose resolution brings only a temporary peace. The elaboration of the rites and of the taboos constitutes a kind of empirical knowledge about violence.\n\nAlthough explorers and anthropologists have not been able to witness events similar to these, which go back to the earliest times, indirect evidence for them abounds, such as the universality of ritual sacrifice and the innumerable myths that have been collected from the most varied peoples. If Girard's theory is true, then we will find in myths the culpability of the victim-god, depictions of the selection of the victim, and his power to beget the order that governs the group. Girard found these elements in numerous myths, beginning with that of Oedipus which he analyzed in this and later books. On this question he opposes Claude Lévi-Strauss.\n\nThe phrase \"scapegoat mechanism\" was not coined by Girard himself; it had been used earlier by Kenneth Burke in \"Permanence and Change\" (1935) and \"A Grammar of Motives\" (1940). However, Girard took this concept from Burke and developed it much more extensively as an interpretation of human culture.\n\nIn \"Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World\" (1978), Girard develops the implications of this discovery. The victimary process is the missing link between the animal world and the human world, the principle that explains the humanization of primates. It allows us to understand the need for sacrificial victims, which in turn explains the hunt which is primitively ritual, and the domestication of animals as a fortuitous result of the acclimatization of a reserve of victims, or agriculture. It shows that at the beginning of all culture is archaic religion, which Durkheim had sensed. The elaboration of the rites and taboos by proto-human or human groups would take infinitely varied forms while obeying a rigorous practical sense that we can detect: the prevention of the return of the mimetic crisis. So we can find in archaic religion the origin of all political or cultural institutions.\n\nAccording to Girard, just as the theory of natural selection of species is the rational principle that explains the immense diversity of forms of life, the victimization process is the rational principle that explains the origin of the infinite diversity of cultural forms. The analogy with Darwin also extends to the scientific status of the theory, as each of these presents itself as a hypothesis that is not capable of being proven experimentally, given the extreme amounts of time necessary for the production of the phenomena in question, but which imposes itself by its great explanatory power.\n\nAccording to Girard, the origin of language is also related to scapegoating. After the first victim, after the murder of the first scapegoat, there were the first prohibitions and rituals, but these came into being before representation and language, hence before culture. And that means that \"people\" (perhaps not human beings) \"will not start fighting again.\" Girard says:\nAccording to Girard, the substitution of an immolated victim for the first, is \"the very first symbolic sign created by the hominids.\" Girard also says this is the first time that one thing represents another thing, standing in the place of this (absent) one. This substitution is the beginning of representation and language, but also the beginning of sacrifice and ritual. The genesis of language and ritual is very slow and we must imagine that there are also kinds of rituals among the animals: \"It is the originary scapegoating which prolongs itself in a process which can be infinitely long in moving from, how should I say, from instinctive ritualization, instinctive prohibition, instinctive separation of the antagonists, which you already find to a certain extent in animals, towards representation.\"\n\nUnlike Eric Gans, Girard does not think that there is an original scene during which there is \"a sudden shift from non-representation to representation,\" or a sudden shift from animality to humanity. According to the French sociologist Camille Tarot, it is hard to understand how the process of representation (symbolicity, language...) actually occurs and he has called this a \"black box\" in Girard's theory.\n\nGirard also says:\nIn \"Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World\", Girard discusses for the first time Christianity and the Bible. The Gospels ostensibly present themselves as a typical mythical account, with a victim-god lynched by a unanimous crowd, an event that is then commemorated by Christians through ritual sacrifice — a material re-presentation in this case — in the Eucharist. The parallel is perfect except for one detail: the truth of the innocence of the victim is proclaimed by the text and the writer. The mythical account is usually built on the lie of the guilt of the victim in as much as it is an account of the event seen from the viewpoint of the anonymous lynchers. This ignorance is indispensable to the efficacy of the sacrificial violence.\n\nThe evangelical \"good news\" clearly affirms the innocence of the victim, thus becoming, by attacking ignorance, the germ of the destruction of the sacrificial order on which rests the equilibrium of societies. Already the Old Testament shows this turning inside-out of the mythic accounts with regard to the innocence of the victims (Abel, Joseph, Job…), and the Hebrews were conscious of the uniqueness of their religious tradition. With the Gospels, it is with full clarity that are unveiled these \"things hidden since the foundation of the world\" (Matthew 13:35), the foundation of social order on murder, described in all its repulsive ugliness in the account of the Passion.\n\nThis revelation is even clearer because the text is a work on desire and violence, from the serpent setting alight the desire of Eve in paradise to the prodigious strength of the mimetism that brings about the denial of Peter during the Passion (Mark 14: 66–72; Luke 22:54–62). Girard reinterprets certain biblical expressions in light of his theories; for instance, he sees \"scandal\" (\"skandalon\", literally, a \"snare\", or an \"impediment placed in the way and causing one to stumble or fall\") as signifying mimetic rivalry, for example Peter's denial of Jesus. No one escapes responsibility, neither the envious nor the envied: \"Woe to the man through whom scandal comes\" (Matthew 18:7).\n\nThe evangelical revelation contains the truth on the violence, available for two thousand years, Girard tells us. Has it put an end to the sacrificial order based on violence in the society that has claimed the gospel text as its own religious text? No, he replies, since in order for a truth to have an impact it must find a receptive listener, and people do not change that quickly. The gospel text has instead acted as a ferment that brings about the decomposition of the sacrificial order. While medieval Europe showed the face of a sacrificial society that still knew very well how to despise and ignore its victims, nonetheless the efficacy of sacrificial violence has never stopped decreasing, in the measure that ignorance receded. Here Girard sees the principle of the uniqueness and of the transformations of the Western society whose destiny today is one with that of human society as a whole.\n\nDoes the retreat of the sacrificial order mean less violence? Not at all; rather, it deprives modern societies of most of the capacity of sacrificial violence to establish temporary order. The \"innocence\" of the time of the ignorance is no more. On the other hand, Christianity, following the example of Judaism, has desacralized the world, making possible a utilitarian relationship with nature. Increasingly threatened by the resurgence of mimetic crises on a grand scale, the contemporary world is on one hand more quickly caught up by its guilt, and on the other hand has developed such a great technical power of destruction that it is condemned to both more and more responsibility and less and less innocence. So, for example, while empathy for victims manifests progress in the moral conscience of society, it nonetheless also takes the form of a competition among victims that threatens an escalation of violence.\n\nJean-Michel Oughourlian in his book \"A mime named desire\" (\"Un mime nommé désir\" - Grasset 1982) has used Girard's theories in psychopathology. Hysteria and obsession are explained through mimetic rivalry and the priority of desire.\n\nGirard's work is also attracting increasing interest from empirical researchers investigating human imitation (among them Andrew Meltzoff and Vittorio Gallese). Recently, empirical studies into the mechanism of desire have suggested some intriguing correlations with Girard's theory on the subject. For instance, clinical psychologist Scott R. Garrels wrote:\nThe mimetic theory has also been applied in the study of economics, most notably in (1982) by Michel Aglietta and André Orléan. Orléan was also a contributor to the volume \"René Girard\" in \"Les cahiers de l'Herne\" (\"\"). According to the philosopher of technology Andrew Feenberg:\nIn an interview with the \"Unesco Courier\", anthropologist and social theorist Mark Anspach (editor of the \"René Girard\" issue of \"Les Cahiers de l'Herne\") explains that Aglietta and Orléan (who were very critical of economic rationality) see the classical theory of economics as a myth. According to Anspach, the vicious circle of violence and vengeance generated by mimetic rivalry gives rise to the gift economy, as a means to overcome it and achieve a peaceful reciprocity: \"Instead of waiting for your neighbour to come steal your yams, you offer them to him today, and it is up to him to do the same for you tomorrow. Once you have made a gift, he is obliged to make a return gift. Now you have set in motion a positive circularity.\" Since the gift may be so large as to be humiliating, a second stage of development—\"economic rationality\"—is required: this liberates the seller and the buyer of any other obligations than to give money. Thus reciprocal violence is eliminated by the sacrifice, obligations of vengeance by the gift, and finally the possibly dangerous gift by \"economic rationality.\" This rationality, however, creates new victims, as globalization is increasingly revealing.\n\nGirard's influence extends beyond philosophy and social science, and includes the literary realm. A prominent example of a fiction writer influenced by Girard is J. M. Coetzee, winner of the 2003 Nobel Prize in Literature. Critics have noted that mimetic desire and scapegoating are recurring themes in Coetzee's novels \"Elizabeth Costello\" and \"Disgrace.\" In the latter work, the book's protagonist also gives a speech about the history of scapegoating with noticeable similarities to Girard's view of the same subject. Coetzee has also frequently cited Girard in his non-fiction essays, on subjects ranging from advertising to the Russian writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.\n\nSome critics have pointed out that while Girard may be the first to have suggested that \"all\" desire is mimetic, he is by no means the first to have noticed that \"some\" desire is mimetic – Gabriel Tarde's book \"Les lois de l'imitation\" (\"The Laws of Imitation\") appeared in 1890. Building on Tarde, crowd psychology, Nietzsche, and more generally on a modernist tradition of the \"mimetic unconscious\" that had hypnosis as its via regia, Nidesh Lawtoo argued that for the modernists not only desire but all affects turn out to be contagious and mimetic. René Pommier mentions La Rochefoucauld, a seventeenth-century thinker who already wrote that \"Nothing is so infectious as example\" and that \"There are some who never would have loved if they never had heard it spoken of.\"\n\nStéphane Vinolo sees Baruch Spinoza and Thomas Hobbes as important precursors. Hobbes: \"if any two men desire the same thing, which nevertheless they cannot both enjoy, they become enemies.\" Spinoza: \"By the very fact that we conceive a thing, which is like ourselves, and which we have not regarded with any emotion, to be affected with any emotion, we are ourselves affected with a like emotion. Proof… If we conceive anyone similar to ourselves as affected by any emotion, this conception will express a modification of our body similar to that emotion.\"\n\nWolfgang Palaver adds Alexis de Tocqueville to the list. \"Two hundred years after Hobbes, the French historian Alexis de Tocqueville mentioned the dangers coming along with equality, too. Like Hobbes, he refers to the increase of mimetic desire coming along with equality.\" Palaver has in mind passages like this one, from Tocqueville's \"Democracy in America\": \"They have swept away the privileges of some of their fellow creatures which stood in their way, but they have opened the door to universal competition; the barrier has changed its shape rather than its position.\"\n\nMaurizio Meloni highlights the similarities between Girard, Jacques Lacan and Sigmund Freud. Meloni claims that these similarities arise because the projects undertaken by the three men—namely, to understand the role of mythology in structuring the human psyche and culture—were very similar. What is more, both Girard and Lacan read these myths through the lens of structural anthropology so it is not surprising that their intellectual systems came to resemble one another so strongly. Meloni writes that Girard and Lacan were \"moved by similar preoccupations and are fascinated by and attracted to the same kind of issues: the constituent character of the other in the structure of desire, the role of jealousy and rivalry in the construction of the social bond, the proliferation of triangles within apparently dual relations, doubles and mirrors, imitation and the Imaginary, and the crisis of modern society within which the 'rite of Oedipus' is situated.\"\n\nAt times, Girard acknowledges his indebtedness to such precursors, including Tocqueville. At other times, however, Girard makes stronger claims to originality, as when he says that mimetic rivalry \"is responsible for the frequency and intensity of human conflicts, but strangely, no one ever speaks of it.\"\n\nGirard has presented his view as being scientifically grounded: \"Our theory should be approached, then, as one approaches any scientific hypothesis.\" René Pommier has written a book about Girard with the ironic title \"Girard ablaze rather than enlightened\" where he asserts that Girard's readings of myths and bible stories—the basis of some of his most important claims—are often tendentious. Girard notes, for example, that the disciples actively turn against Jesus. Since Peter warms himself by a fire, and fires always create community, and communities breed mimetic desire, this means that Peter becomes actively hostile to Jesus, seeking his death. According to Pommier, Girard claims that the Gospels present the Crucifixion as a purely human affair, with no indication of Christ dying for the sins of mankind. (This is contradicted by Mark 10:45, Matthew 20:28.)\n\nThe same goes for readings of literary texts says Pommier. For example, Molière's Don Juan only pursues \"one\" love object for mediated reasons, not \"all\" of them, as Girard claims. Or again, Sancho Panza wants an island not because he is catching the bug of romanticism from Don Quixote, but because he has been promised one. And Pavel Pavlovitch, in Dostoevsky's \"Eternal Husband\", has been married for ten years before Veltchaninov becomes his rival, so Veltchaninov is not in fact essential to Pavel's desire.\n\nAccordingly, a number of scholars have suggested that Girard's writings are metaphysics rather than science. Theorist of history Hayden White did so in an article titled \"Ethnological 'Lie' and Mystical 'Truth'\"; Belgian anthropologist Luc de Heusch made a similar claim in his piece \"\" (\"The Gospel according to Saint Girard\"); and Jean Greisch sees Girard's thought as more or less a kind of Gnosis.\n\nRené Pommier has pointed out a number of problems with the Girardian claim that all desire is mimetic. First, it is very hard to explain the existence of taboo desires, such as homosexuality in repressive societies, on that basis.. In Girard's defence on the other hand, Jean-Michel Oughourlian exemplifies the situation by noting that \"one homosexual admitted to me that he just wanted to be somebody else.\"\n\nSecond, every situation presents large numbers of potential mediators, which means that the individual has to make a choice among them; either authentic choice is back in the picture, then, or else the theory leads to a regress. Third, Girard leaves no room for innovation: surely somebody has to be the first to desire a new object, even if everyone else follows that trend-setter.\n\nIt should be noted that it's not clear that the first objection really provides a challenge to Girard's theory, as even in repressive societies men are still desired (albeit by women). However, such a response leaves unexplained why homosexuals would imitate the desires of heterosexual members of the opposite sex. One might also argue that the last objection ignores the influence of an original sin from which all others follow, which Girard clearly affirms. However, original sin, on Girard's interpretation, explains only our propensity to imitate, not the specific content of our imitated desires. Thus, the doctrine of original sin does not solve the problem of how the original model first acquires the desire that is subsequently imitated by others.\n\nIn the early part of Girard's career, there seemed no place for beneficial imitation. Jean-Michel Oughourlian objected that \"imitation can be totally peaceful and beneficial; I don't believe that I am the other, I don't want to take his place. …This imitation can lead me to become sensitive to social and political problems.\" Rebecca Adams argued that because Girard's theories fixated on violence, he was creating a \"scapegoat\" himself with his own theory: the scapegoat of positive mimesis. Adams proposed a reassessment of Girard's theory that includes an account of loving mimesis or, as she preferred to call it, creative mimesis.\n\nMore recently, Girard has made room for positive imitation. But as Adams implies, it is not clear how the revised theory accords with earlier claims about the origin of culture. If beneficial imitation is possible, then it is no longer necessary for cultures to be born by means of scapegoating; they could just as well be born through healthy emulation. Nidesh Lawtoo further develops the healthy side of mimetic contagion by drawing on a Nietzschean philosophical tradition that privileges \"laughter\" and other gay forms of \"sovereign communication\" in the formation of \"community.\"\n\nVarious anthropologists have contested Girard's claims. Elizabeth Traube, for example, reminds us that there are other ways of making sense of the data that Girard borrows from Evans-Pritchard and company—ways that are more consistent with the practices of the given culture. By applying a one-size-fits-all approach, Girard \"loses … the ability to tell us anything about cultural products themselves, for the simple reason that he has annihilated the cultures which produced them.\"\n\nOne of the main sources of criticism of Girard's work comes from intellectuals who claim that his comparison of Judeo-Christian texts vis-à-vis other religions leaves something to be desired. There are also those who find the interpretation of the Christ event—as a purely human event, having nothing to do with redemption from sin—an unconvincing one, given what the Gospels themselves say. Yet, Roger Scruton notes, Girard's account has a divine Jesus: \"that Jesus was the first scapegoat to understand the need for his death and to forgive those who inflicted it … Girard argues, Jesus gave the best evidence … of his divine nature.\"\n\n\nThis section only lists book-length publications that René Girard wrote or edited. For articles and interviews by René Girard, the reader can refer to the database maintained at the University of Innsbruck. Some of the books below reprint articles (\"To Double Business Bound\", 1978; \"Oedipus Unbound\", 2004; \"Mimesis and Theory\", 2008) or are based on articles (\"A Theatre of Envy\", 1991).\n\n\n\n\n\nIn chronological order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58425364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58425364", "title": "Richard Bradley (philosopher)", "text": "Richard Bradley (philosopher)\n\nRichard Bradley (born 13 December 1964) is a South African philosopher. He is a professor at the London School of Economics and Political Science, a project leader at the Centre for Philosophy of Natural and Social Science, and the former editor of the journal Economics and Philosophy.\n\nBradley is best known for work on decision theory, formal epistemology, semantics, and climate change policy. His PhD thesis began his work on decisions involving conditional attitudes, which culminates in his 2017 book Decision Theory with a Human Face. \n\nBradley attended the University of Witwatersrand studying economics, politics and sociology. He holds an MSc in Social Philosophy from the LSE and completed his doctorate at the University of Chicago, under the supervision of Richard Jeffrey and David Malament. \n\n"}
{"id": "3061274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3061274", "title": "Richard Wahle", "text": "Richard Wahle\n\nRichard Wahle (February 14, 1857, Vienna – October 21, 1935, Vienna) was professor of philosophy at the Universities of Czernowitz and Vienna.\n\nWahle pronounced in his \"Tragicomedy of Wisdom\" (2nd edition, 1925) on what he acknowledged as only \"definite, agnostic, absolute critique of knowledge\" and psychology as surviving, or rather maintained that critiques of knowledge, logic and psychology have nothing to do with philosophy. As a consequence of his fundamental attitude, Wahle did not recognize the ego as a nucleus of forces but only as an imprint in the texture of the universe. \n\nIn his \"Formation of Character\" (2nd edition, 1928) Wahle made important contributions to modern characterology. Wahle's devastating criticism of philosophers spared only a few, including Spinoza, Hamann and Herbart, in whom he praised usefulness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43241963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43241963", "title": "Ryonggok Academy", "text": "Ryonggok Academy\n\nThe Ryonggok Confucian Shrine and Academy is located in Mangyongdae-guyok, Pyongyang, North Korea. It is listed as a National Treasures of North Korea.\n\nBuilt in 1656, the Shrine is located on the slopes of Mount Ryonggak, about ten kilometers from Pyongyang. The Academy was damaged by fire in the early 1710s, and was rebuilt in 1713. \n\nThe Academy served as a private educational institution during the Ri Dynasty. The complex includes two quarters - an auditorium and a shrine. The buildings were constructed in a row on sloping land. The auditorium quarter include an east classroom and a west classroom. Behind the shrine is a pavilion with a calligraphic board hung under the eaves of the roof. \n\nThe complex is also known as the Ryonggok Auditorium. The main building is known as the Taesong Hall; it is the largest building on the complex. The Taesong Hall's roof has a windbreak board on each side, “a unique form, rare to be seen in other old architectures”. The Auditorium includes an outer door, a dormitory and an inner door. The outer door has a two storied gable roof. The first floor of the complex was used as an auditorium and the second floor was used as a lecture room. There are the eastern and western study rooms on the both sides of the inner court. A sign board bearing the school’s name hangs from the eaves of the shrine and a monument in the north western house explains that the school was built in 1713. \n\nThe Shrine is featured in film .\n"}
{"id": "1149721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1149721", "title": "Sartor Resartus", "text": "Sartor Resartus\n\nSartor Resartus (meaning 'The tailor re-tailored') is an 1836 novel by Thomas Carlyle, first published as a serial in 1833–34 in \"Fraser's Magazine\". The novel purports to be a commentary on the thought and early life of a German philosopher called Diogenes Teufelsdröckh (which translates as 'god-born devil-dung'), author of a tome entitled \"Clothes: Their Origin and Influence\", but is actually a poioumenon. Teufelsdröckh's Transcendentalist musings are mulled over by a sceptical English Reviewer (referred to as Editor) who also provides fragmentary biographical material on the philosopher. The work is, in part, a parody of Hegel, and of German Idealism more generally. However, Teufelsdröckh is also a literary device with which Carlyle can express difficult truths.\n\nArchibald MacMechan surmised that the novel's invention had three literary sources. The first being \"A Tale of a Tub\" by Jonathan Swift, whom Carlyle intensely admired in his college years, even going by the nicknames \"Jonathan\" and \"The Dean\". In that work, the three main traditions of Western Christianity are represented by a father bestowing his three children with clothes they may never alter, but proceed to do so according to fashion. The second being Carlyle's work translating Goethe, particularly \"Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship\", \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\", and \"Faust\", all of which are quoted and explicitly referred to, especially in Teufelsdröckh's crisis being named \"The Sorrows of Young Teufelsdröckh\". The third being \"Tristram Shandy\" from which Carlyle quotes many phrases, and he referred to earlier in his letters.\nCarlyle worked on an earlier novel, Wotton Reinfred which Macmechan refers to as \"The first draft of \"Sartor\"\". Carlyle finished seven chapters of the semi-autobiographical novel depicting a young man of deeply religious upbringing being scorned in love, and thereafter wandering. He eventually finds at least philosophical consolation in a mysterious stranger named Maurice Herbert who invites Wotton into his home and frequently discusses with him speculative philosophy. At this point the novel abruptly shifts to highly philosophical dialogue revolving mostly around Kant. Though the unfinished novel deeply impressed Carlyle's wife Jane, Carlyle never published it and its existence was forgotten until long after Carlyle's death. Macmechan suggests that the novel provoked Carlyle's frustration and scorn due to his \"zeal for truth and his hatred for fiction\" spoken of in his letters of the time. Numerous parts of \"Wotton\" appear in the biographical section of \"Sartor Resartus\", in which Carlyle humorously sentences them to the bags containing Teufelsdröckh's autobiographical sketches, which the editor constantly complains about being overly fragmented or derivative of Goethe. Though widely and erroneously reported as having been burned by Carlyle, the unfinished novel is still extant in draft form, several passages being moved verbatim to \"Sartor Resartus\" but with their context radically changed.\n\nCarlyle had difficulty finding a publisher for the novel and began composing it as an article in October 1831 at Craigenputtock. \"Fraser's Magazine\" serialised it in 1833–1834. The text would first appear in volume form in Boston in 1836, its publication arranged by Ralph Waldo Emerson, who much admired the book and Carlyle. Emerson's savvy dealing with the overseas publishers would ensure Carlyle received high compensation that the novel did not attain in Britain. The first British edition would be published in London in 1838.\n\nThe novel takes the form of a long review by a somewhat cantankerous unnamed Editor for the English Publication \"Fraser's Magazine\" (in which the novel was first serialized without any distinction of the content as fictional) who is upon request, reviewing the fictional German book \"Clothes, Their Origin and Influence\" by the fictional philosopher Diogenes Teufelsdröckh (Professor of \"Things in General\" at Weissnichtwo \"Know not where\" University). The Editor is clearly flummoxed by the book, first struggling to explain the book in the context of contemporary social issues in England, some of which he knows Germany to be sharing as well, then conceding that he knows Teufelsdröckh personally, but that even this relationship does not explain the curiosities of the book's philosophy. The Editor remarks that he has sent requests back to the Teufelsdrockh's office in Germany for more biographical information hoping for further explanation, and the remainder of Book One contains summaries of Teufelsdröckh's book, including translated quotations, accompanied by the Editor's many objections, many of them buttressed by quotations from Goethe and Shakespeare. The review becomes longer and longer due to the Editor's frustration at the philosophy, but desire to expose its outrageous nature. At the final chapter of Book One, the Editor has received word from the Teufelsdröckh's office in the form of several bags of paper scraps (rather esoterically organized into bags based on the signs of the Latin Zodiac) on which are written autobiographical fragments.\nAt the writing of Book Two, the Editor has somewhat organized the fragments into a coherent narrative. As a boy, Teufelsdröckh was left in a basket on the doorstep of a childless couple in the German country town of Entepfuhl (\"Duck-Pond\"); his father a retired Sergeant of Frederick the Great and his mother a very pious woman, who to Teufelsdröckh's gratitude, raises him in utmost spiritual discipline. In very flowery language, Teufelsdröckh recalls at length the values instilled in his idyllic childhood, the Editor noting most of his descriptions originating in intense spiritual pride. Teufelsdröckh eventually is recognized as being clever, and sent to Hinterschlag (slap-behind) Gymnasium. While there, Teufelsdröckh is intellectually stimulated, and befriended by a few of his teachers, but frequently bullied by other students. His reflections on this time of his life are ambivalent; glad for his education, but critical of that education's disregard for actual human activity and character; for both his own treatment, and his education's application to politics. While at University, Teufelsdröckh encounters the same problems, but eventually gains a small teaching post some favour and recognition from the German nobility. While interacting with these social circles, Teufelsdröckh meets a woman he calls Blumine (Goddess of Flowers; the Editor assumes this to be a pseudonym), and abandons his teaching post to pursue her. She spurns his advances for a British aristocrat named Towgood. Teufelsdröckh is thrust into a spiritual crisis, leaving the city to wander the European countryside, but even there encounters Blumine and Towgood on their honeymoon. He sinks into a deep depression, culminating in the celebrated Everlasting No, disdaining all human activity. Still trying to piece together the fragments, the Editor surmises that Teufelsdröckh either fights in a war during this period, or at least intensely uses its imagery, which leads him to a \"Centre of Indifference\", and on reflection of all the ancient villages and forces of history around him, ultimately comes upon the affirmation of all life in \"The Everlasting Yes\". The Editor, in relief, promises to return to Teufelsdröckh's book, hoping with the insights of his assembled biography to glean some new insight into the philosophy.\n\nDiogenes Teufelsdröckh: (Greek/German:\"God-Born Devil-Dung\") The Professor of \"Things in General\" at Weissnichtwo University, and writer of a long book of German idealist philosophy called \"Clothes, Their Origin and Influence,\" the review of which forms the contents of the novel. Both professor and book are fictional.\n\nThe Editor: The narrator of the novel, who in reviewing Teufelsdröckh's book, reveals much about his own tastes, as well as deep sympathy towards Teufelsdröckh, and much worry as to social issues of his day. His tone varies between conversational, condemning and even semi-Biblical prophecy. The Reviewer should not be confused with Carlyle himself, seeing as much of Teufelsdröckh's life implements Carlyle's own biography.\n\nHofrath: Hofrath Heuschrecke (i. e. State-Councillor Grasshopper) is a loose, zigzag figure, a blind admirer of Teufelsdröckh's, an incarnation of distraction distracted, and the only one who advises the editor and encourages him in his work; a victim to timidity and preyed on by an uncomfortable sense of mere physical cold, such as the majority of the state-counsellors of the day were.\n\nBlumine: A woman associated to the German nobility with whom Teufelsdröckh falls in love early in his career. Her spurning of him to marry Towgood leads Teufelsdröckh to the spiritual crisis that culminates in the Everlasting No. Their relationship is somewhat parodic of Werther's spurned love for Lotte in \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\" (including her name \"Goddess of Flowers\", which may simply be a pseudonym), though, as the Editor notes, Teufelsdröckh does not take as much incentive as does Werther. Critics have associated her with Kitty Kirkpatrick, with whom Carlyle himself fell in love before marrying Jane Carlyle.\n\nTowgood: The English Aristocrat who ultimately marries Blumine, throwing Teufelsdröckh into a spiritual crisis. If Blumine is indeed a fictionalization of Kitty Kirkpatrick, Towgood would find his original in Captain James Winslowe Phillipps, who married Kirkpatrick in 1829.\n\nDumdrudge: Dumdrudge is an imaginary village where the natives drudge away and say nothing about it, as villagers all over the world contentedly do.\n\n'Weissnichtwo:' In the book, Weissnichtwo (\"weiß-nicht-wo,\" German for \"don't-know-where\") is an imaginary European city, viewed as the focus, and as exhibiting the operation, of all the influences for good and evil of the time, described in terms which characterised city life in the first quarter of the 19th Century; so universal appeared the spiritual forces at work in society at that time that it was impossible to say where they were and where they were not, and hence the name of the city, \"Don't-know-where\" (cf. Sir Walter Scott's \"Kennaquhair\").\n\n\"Sartor Resartus\" was intended to be a new kind of book: simultaneously factual and fictional, serious and satirical, speculative and historical. It ironically commented on its own formal structure, while forcing the reader to confront the problem of where \"truth\" is to be found. In this respect it develops techniques used much earlier in \"Tristram Shandy\", to which it refers. The imaginary \"Philosophy of Clothes\" holds that meaning is to be derived from phenomena, continually shifting over history, as cultures reconstruct themselves in changing fashions, power-structures, and faith-systems. The book contains a very Fichtean conception of religious conversion: based not on the acceptance of God but on the absolute freedom of the will to reject evil, and to construct meaning. This has led some writers to see \"Sartor Resartus\" as an early existentialist text.\n\nOne of the recurring jokes is Carlyle giving humorously appropriate German names to places and people in the novel, such as the Teufelsdröckh's publisher being named Stillschweigen and co. (meaning Silence and Company) and lodgings being in Weissnichtwo (meaning Know-not-where). Teufelsdröckh's father is introduced as an earnest believer in Walter Shandy's doctrine that \"there is much, nay almost all in Names.\"\n\nAccording to Rodger L. Tarr, \"The influence of \"Sartor Resartus\" upon American Literature is so vast, so pervasive, that it is difficult to overstate.\" Upon learning of Carlyle's death in 1881 Walt Whitman remarked: 'The way to test how much he has left us all were to consider, or try to consider, for the moment the array of British thought, the resultant and ensemble of the last fifty years, as existing to-day, but with Carlyle left out. It would be like an army with no artillery.'\" Tarr suggests the influence of \"Sartor Resartus\" on American writers including Ralph Waldo Emerson, Emily Dickinson, Henry David Thoreau, Herman Melville, Margaret Fuller, Louisa May Alcott and Mark Twain. Both Nathaniel Hawthorne and Edgar Allan Poe, however, read and objected to the book.\n\nBorges greatly admired the book, recounting that in 1916 at age 17 \"[I] discovered, and was overwhelmed by, Thomas Carlyle. I read \"Sartor Resartus\", and I can recall many of its pages; I know them by heart.\" Many of Borges' first characteristic and most admired works employ the same technique of intentional pseudepigraphy as Carlyle, such as \"Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote\", \"The Garden of Forking Paths\" and \"Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1605470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1605470", "title": "Satya", "text": "Satya\n\nSatya is the Sanskrit word for truth. It also refers to a virtue in Indian religions, referring to being truthful in one's thought, speech and action. In Yoga, \"satya\" is one of five yamas, the virtuous restraint from falsehood and distortion of reality in one's expressions and actions.\n\nIn the Vedas and later sutras, the meaning of the word satya () evolves into an ethical concept about truthfulness and is considered an important virtue. It means being true and consistent with reality in one's thought, speech and action.\n\nA related concept, sattva, also derived from \"sat\", means true essence, nature, spiritual essence, character. Sattva is also a guṇa, a psychology concept particularly in the Samkhya school of philosophy, where it means goodness, purity, clean, positive, one that advances good true nature of self.\n\nSatya has cognates in a number of diverse Indo-European languages, including the word \"sooth\" in English, \"istina\" (\"истина\") in Russian, \"sannhet\" in Norwegian and \"haithya\" in Avestan, the liturgical language of Zoroastrianism.\n\n\"Satya\" is a central theme in the Vedas. It is equated with and considered necessary to the concept Ṛta (Sanskrit ऋतं ṛtaṃ) – that which is properly joined, order, rule, nature, balance, harmony. Ṛta results from Satya in the Vedas, states Holdrege, as it regulates and enables the operation of the universe and everything within it. Satya (truth) is considered essential, and without it, the universe and reality falls apart, cannot function.\n\nIn Rigveda, opposed to \"rita\" and \"satya\" are \"anrita\" and \"asatya\" (falsehood). Truth and truthfulness is considered as a form of reverence for the divine, while falsehood a form of sin. \"Satya\" includes action and speech that is factual, real, true and reverent to \"Ṛta\" in Book 1, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of Rigveda. However, \"Satya\" isn't merely about one's past that is in context in the Vedas, it has one's current and one's future contexts as well. De Nicolás states, that in Rigveda, \"\"Satya\" is the modality of acting in the world of \"Sat\", as the truth to be built, formed or established\".\n\n\"Satya\" is a widely discussed concept in various Upanishads, including the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad where \"satya\" is called the means to Brahman, as well as Brahman (Being, true self). In hymn 1.4.14 of Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, \"Satya\" (truth) is equated to Dharma (morality, ethics, law of righteousness), as\n\nTaittiriya Upanishad's hymn 11.11 states, \"Speak the Satya (truth), conduct yourself according to the Dharma (morality, ethics, law)\".\n\nTruth is sought, praised in the hymns of Upanishads, held as one that ultimately, always prevails. The Mundaka Upanishad, for example, states in Book 3, Chapter 1,\n\nSandilya Upanishad of Atharvanaveda, in Chapter 1, includes ten forbearances as virtues, in its exposition of Yoga. It defines Satya as \"the speaking of the truth that conduces to the well being of creatures, through the actions of one's mind, speech or body.\"\n\nDeussen states that \"Satya\" is described in the major Upanishads with two layers of meanings - one as empirical truth about reality, another as abstract truth about universal principle, being and the unchanging. Both these ideas are explained in early Upanishads, composed before 500 BC, by variously breaking the word \"satya\" or \"satyam\" into two or three syllables. In later Upanishads, the ideas evolve and transcend into \"satya\" as truth (or truthfulness), and Brahman as the Being, Be-ness, real Self, the eternal.\n\nThe \"Shanti Parva\" of the Mahabharata states, \"The righteous hold that forgiveness, truth, sincerity and compassion are the foremost (of all virtues). Truth is the essence of the Vedas.\"\n\nThe Epic repeatedly emphasizes that \"Satya\" is a basic virtue, because everything and everyone depends on and relies on \"Satya\".\n\nIn the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali, it is written, “When one is firmly established in speaking truth, the fruits of action become subservient to him.\" In Yoga sutra, \"Satya\" is one of the five yamas, or\nvirtuous restraints, along with ahimsa (restraint from violence or injury to any living being); asteya (restraint from stealing); brahmacharya (celibacy or restraint from sexually cheating on one's partner); and aparigraha (restraint from covetousness and craving). Patanjali considers \"satya\" as a restraint from falsehood in one's action (body), words (speech, writing), or feelings / thoughts (mind). In Patanjali's teachings, one may not always know the truth or the whole truth, but one knows if one is creating, sustaining or expressing falsehood, exaggeration, distortion, fabrication or deception. \"Satya\" is, in Patanjali's Yoga, the virtue of restraint from such falsehood, either through silence or through stating the truth without any form of distortion.\n\nSatya is one of the five vows prescribed in Jain Agamas. Satya was also preached by Mahavira. According to Jainism, not to lie or speak what is not commendable. The underlying cause of falsehood is passion and therefore, it is said to cause \"hiṃsā\" (injury).\n\nAccording to the Jain text \"Sarvārthasiddhi\": \"that which causes pain and suffering to the living is not commendable, whether it refers to actual facts or not\".\n\nAccording to Jain text, \"Puruşārthasiddhyupāya\":\n\nThe term \"satya\" (Sanskrit; in Pali: \"sacca\") is translated in English as \"reality\" or \"truth.\" In terms of the Four Noble Truths (\"ariyasacca\"), the Pali can be written as \"sacca\", \"tatha\", \"anannatatha\" and \"dhamma\".\n\n'The Four Noble Truths' (\"ariya-sacca\") are the briefest synthesis of the entire teaching of Buddhism, since all those manifold doctrines of the threefold Pali canon are, without any exception, included therein. They are the truth of suffering (mundane mental and physical phenomenon), of the origin of suffering (tanha 'pali' the craving), of the extinction of suffering (Nibbana or nirvana), and of the Noble Eightfold Path leading to the extinction of suffering (the eight supra-mundane mind factors ).\n\nThe motto of the republic of India's emblem is Satyameva Jayate which is literally translated as 'Truth alone triumphs'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "618435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=618435", "title": "Subjectivism", "text": "Subjectivism\n\nSubjectivism is the doctrine that \"our own mental activity is the only unquestionable fact of our experience.\", instead of shared or communal, and that there is no external or objective truth.\n\nThe success of this position is historically attributed to Descartes and his methodic doubt. Subjectivism accords primacy to subjective experience as fundamental of all measure and law. In extreme forms like Solipsism, it may hold that the nature and existence of every object depends solely on someone's subjective awareness of it. One may consider the qualified empiricism of George Berkeley in this context, given his reliance on God as the prime mover of human perception. Thus, subjectivism.\n\nSubjectivism is a label used to denote the philosophical tenet that \"our own mental activity is the only unquestionable fact of our experience.\" The success of this position is historically attributed to Descartes and his methodic doubt. Subjectivism has historically been condemned by Christian theologians, which oppose to it the objective authority of the church, the Christian dogma, and the revealed truth of the Bible. Christian theologians, and Karl Barth in particular, have also condemned anthropocentrism as a form of subjectivism.\n\nMetaphysical subjectivism is the theory that reality is what we perceive to be real, and that there is no underlying true reality that exists independently of perception. One can also hold that it is consciousness rather than perception that is reality (subjective idealism). This is in contrast to metaphysical objectivism and philosophical realism, which assert that there is an underlying 'objective' reality which is perceived in different ways.\n\nThis viewpoint should not be confused with the stance that \"all is illusion\" or that \"there is no such thing as reality.\" Metaphysical subjectivists hold that reality is real enough. They conceive, however, that the nature of reality as related to a given consciousness is dependent on that consciousness. This has its philosophical basis in the writings of Descartes (see \"cogito ergo sum\"), and forms a cornerstone of Søren Kierkegaard's philosophy.\n\nRecently, more modest versions of metaphysical subjectivism have been explored. For example, I might hold that it is a \"fact\" that chocolate is tasty, even though I recognize that it is not tasty to everyone. This would imply that there are facts that are \"subjective\". (Analogously, one might hold that it is a fact that it is winter in the Northern Hemisphere, even though this is not always the case, implying that some facts are \"temporary\".) Giovanni Merlo has developed a specific version of metaphysical subjectivism, under which subjective facts always concern \"mental\" properties. Caspar Hare's theory of egocentric presentism is another, closely related example.\n\nOne possible extension of subjectivist thought is that conscious experience is available to all objectively perceivable substrates. Upon viewing images produced by a camera on the rocking side of an erupting volcano, one might suppose that their relative motion followed from a subjective conscious within the volcano. These properties might also be attributed to the camera or its various components as well.\n\nIn this way, though, subjectivism morphs into a related doctrine, panpsychism, the belief that every objective entity (or event) has an inward or subjective aspect.\n\nEthical subjectivism is the meta-ethical belief that ethical sentences reduce to factual statements about the attitudes and/or conventions of individual people, or that any ethical sentence implies an attitude held by someone. As such, it is a form of\nmoral relativism in which the truth of moral claims is relative to the attitudes of individuals (as opposed to, for instance, communities). Consider the case this way — to a person imagining what it's like to be a cat, catching and eating mice is perfectly natural and morally sound. To a person imagining they are a mouse, being hunted by cats is morally abhorrent. Though this is a loose metaphor, it serves to illustrate the view that each individual subject has their own understanding of right and wrong.\n\nAn ethical subjectivist might propose, for example, that what it means for something to be morally right is just for it to be approved of. (This can lead to the belief that different things are right according to each idiosyncratic moral outlook.) One implication of these beliefs is that, unlike the moral skeptic or the non-cognitivist, the subjectivist thinks that ethical sentences, while subjective, are nonetheless the kind of thing that can be true or false depending on situation.\n\nBroadly speaking, there are two views on Bayesian probability that interpret the probability concept in different ways. In probability, a subjectivist stand is the belief that probabilities are simply degrees-of-belief by rational agents in a certain proposition, and which have no objective reality in and of themselves. According to the subjectivist view, probability measures a \"personal belief\". For this kind of subjectivist, a phrase having to do with probability simply asserts the degree to which the subjective actor believes their assertion is true or false. As a consequence, a subjectivist has no problem with differing people giving different probabilities to an uncertain proposition, and all being correct.\n\nMany modern machine learning methods are based on objectivist Bayesian principles. According to the objectivist view, the rules of Bayesian statistics can be justified by requirements of rationality and consistency and interpreted as an extension of logic. In attempting to justify subjective probability, Bruno de Finetti created the notion of philosophical coherence. According to his theory, a probability assertion is akin to a bet, and a bet is coherent only if it does not expose the wagerer to loss if their opponent chooses wisely. To explain his meaning, de Finetti created a thought-experiment to illustrate the need for principles of coherency in making a probabilistic statement. In his scenario, when someone states their degree-of-belief in something, one places a small bet for or against that belief and specifies the odds, with the understanding that the \"other\" party to the bet may then decide which side of the bet to take. Thus, if Bob specifies 3-to-1 odds against a proposition A, his opponent Joe may then choose whether to require Bob to risk $1 in order to win $3 if proposition A is found to be true, or to require Bob to risk $3 in order to win $1 if the proposition A is not true. In this case, it is possible for Joe to win over Bob. According to de Finetti, then, this case is incoherent.\n\n"}
{"id": "32938821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32938821", "title": "Taylor Carman", "text": "Taylor Carman\n\nTaylor Carman is an American philosopher. He is Professor of Philosophy at Barnard College, Columbia University. \n\nCarman earned his Ph.D. in Philosophy from Stanford University, where he worked with Dagfinn Føllesdal, but was also influenced by Hubert Dreyfus. \n\nCarman's main areas of interest are in the philosophy of Martin Heidegger and in phenomenology. He is the author of \"Heidegger’s Analytic: Interpretation, Discourse, and Authenticity in Heidegger's\" Being and Time (2003) and \"Merleau-Ponty\" (2008), and the editor of \"The Cambridge Companion to Merleau-Ponty\" (2005). He is also co-editor of a philosophy series with Ashgate Publishing called \"Intersection: Continental and Analytic Philosophy\". \n\nHubert Dreyfus considers Carman to be one of the leading contemporary authorities on Heidegger and on Heidegger's concept of death in particular. Carman was featured, along with Dreyfus, Charles Taylor, Albert Borgmann, Mark Wrathall and Sean Kelly, in the documentary \"Being in the World\" (2010), which explores the phenomenology of everyday life.\n"}
{"id": "2623341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2623341", "title": "Teófilo Braga", "text": "Teófilo Braga\n\nJoaquim Teófilo Fernandes Braga (; 24 February 1843 – 28 January 1924) was a Portuguese writer, playwright, politician and the leader of the Republican Provisional Government after the overthrow of King Manuel II, as well as the second elected President of the First Portuguese Republic, after the resignation of President Manuel de Arriaga.\n\nTeófilo Braga was born in the Azores, in São José, Ponta Delgada, the son of Joaquim Manuel Fernandes Braga (probably a grandson of one of King D. João V's illegitimate children), from Braga, and Maria José da Câmara e Albuquerque, from the island of Santa Maria, another descendant of Portuguese nobility (probably traced to Infanta D. Urraca, as the genealogist Ferreira Serpa has shown). Teófilo was the 13th descendant of Diogo Gonçalves Travassos, father of D. Pedro and de Violente Velho Cabral, daughter of the Commander of Almourol, Gonçalo Velho, and descendant of Cristovão Falcão, a poet and Count of Avranches. His mother had seven children (Teófilo being the youngest), of which three died during infancy, the others being Luís, João Fernandes and Maria José. Teófilo's father became a widower when Teófilo was only three years old (his mother died at the age of 31 years). Originally, his father was an artillery lieutenant and commander in Mosteiros, and quit the army after the Concession of Evoramonte, and without means, he established a nautical school and mathematics in Ponta Delgada, eventually finding a job at the local secondary school in Ponta Delgada. Two years later, the older Braga wed a woman (Ricarda Joaquina Marfim Pereira) with a decidedly bad attitude to the young boy, fathering two daughters with Ricarda (Maria da Glória and Maria do Espírito Santo).\n\nThe child took refuge in literature, and specifically in the public library in Ponta Delgada or at the home of the Viscount of Praia, where his father (for a time) was a private tutor to the Viscount's daughters. It was in the Ribeira Grande newspaper \"A Estrela Oriental\" (\"The Oriental Star\"), edited by former-pharmacist Francisco Maria Supico (a native of Lousã), that his first naive poem \"A Canção do Guerreiro\" (\"A Song of the Warrior\"), in a patriotic tone, dedicated to his brother João Fernandes Braga was published. He followed these with \"O Meteoro\" and \"O Santelmo\". At the age of 15 in 1859, in an edition paid for by the Viscount of Praia, he published a book of verses entitled \"Folhas Verdes\" (\"Green Leaves\") and edited by the newspaper \"A Ilha\" (\"The Island\"); it was a timid imitation of \"Folhas Caídas\" (\"Fallen Leaves\") by noted author Almeida Garrett.\n\nHe revealed a tenacity and combative nature and was known to have been disciplined during his time at his secondary school in Ponta Delgada (where his father was teacher) for disparaging remarks made to his teacher. At the end of secondary school Teófilo hoped for future prospects, even informing his father of his intention to leave São Miguel and travel to America for a professional career (likely as a typographer or merchant). But his father suggested expanding his studies at the University of Coimbra, mindful of his child's lack of abilities in his preferred fields. Therefore, Teófilo Braga, student, arrived in Coimbra in April 1861, with hopes of achieving a doctorate in Theology or Law; after a year, in which he repeated his prerequisite entrance qualifications, he joined the Faculty of Law at the University. His first lodging would be at the home of Filipe de Quental (1824–1892), professor of Medicine and paternal uncle of the author Antero de Quental.\n\nLife as a student was spartan and austere, and he did not adopt the Bohemian lifestyle on campus, preferring to concentrate on his studies. A contemporary, the writer Ramalho Ortigão, had this to say of the young Teófilo:\n\nWhile at Coimbra he became involved with the literary agitation; Teófilo joined his contemporaries, which included the writer Antero de Quental, in what became known as \"Questão Coimbra\" (English: \"Question Coimba\"), a loose affiliation of artists with non-traditionalist philosophies and ideals about 1865. He remained on the periphery of this group's activities, though, while writing many of his recognized early works: \"O Pirilampo\", \"O Fósforo\" and \"Tira-Teimas\". A few of his professors in the Faculty of Law recognized his application, and arranged tasks that helped his studies, including the organization and classification of monastic documents. But his new projects did not affect his participation with the student activists against the autocratic Rector Basílio Alberto de Sousa Pinto and many of the traditionalists at Coimbra. He reserved his best efforts for his own projects; during this time he convinced editor Gomes Monteiro, of Casa Moré (a publishing house in Oporto), to publish his poem \"Visão dos Tempos\" (in 1864). It was a work that borrowed directly for its base the themes from Victor Hugo's \"La Légende des siècles\", and captured in verse all the essential classicism of Judaism and Christianity. The work received many positive reviews. At the time the indisputable authority of Portuguese literature was António Feliciano de Castilho and his Lisbon admirers, who could establish or ruin the reputation of young authors. Castilho, and his protégé Manuel Pinheiro Chagas were captivated by the classic prose of \"Visão\" (English: \"Vision\") and congratulated in public Bragas' work.\n\nBut this was not repeated in his follow-up book of poetry \"Tempestades Sonoras\", which were preceded by a philosophical prologue that was both obscure and indecipherable. Generally, Castilho's conservative Lisbon admirers criticized severely many of the personalities with dissident tendencies, due to considerations both artistic and political. At the time of the publication of \"Tempestades\", Antero de Quental had just completed his \"Odes Modernas\" (English: \"Modern Odes\"), a shockingly militant work that challenged the conservative constitutional monarchy in Portugal, its class society and the religious hierarchy. Castilho and his prelates decided to begin a philosophical battle, without quarter, against the two iconoclasts, \"that they considered exponents of a School at Coimbra of depraved tastes and highly harmful.\" The literary \"conflict\" began in earnest when Manuel Pinheiro Chagas published his \"obra-prima\" \"Poema da Mocidade\". António Feliciano de Castilho, in a letter-to-the-editor António Maria Pereira, to promote the book and provide a prologue to the volume, critically attacked Antero Quental and Teófilo Braga, as well as their loose affiliation of friends. This was the beginning of the \"Questão Coimbrã\" Movement, an impassioned period that involved many Portuguese literary writers, that included many critical texts and apologies. Antero de Quental responded with his work which challenged Castilho's original text, which he entitled \"Bom Senso e Bom Gosto\" (English: \"Good Sense and Good Taste\"), followed by \"A Dignidade das Letras\" (English: \"A Dignity of Letters\") and \"Literaturas Oficiais\" (English: \"Official Literature\"), while Teófilo challenged with his literary violent work \"As Teocracias Literárias\" (English: \"The Literary Theocracy\"). After his first year at the University, won by his tenacious inflexibility and idealism, Braga was confronted by the literary conflicts between traditionalists and modernists:\n\nRocha Martins referred to an interview that he had with Braga, in 1916, and where, as a visible admirer of the writer and president, he wrote of Teófilo's life and difficulties at Coimbra. Teófolio had recalled that one time, in Oporto, at the home of the librarian Moré he had met Camilo Castelo Branco, who had extended his hand in friendship, but Braga had \"turned his back\". As Rocha Martins elaborated, Teófilo \"was just a youth then...today he would not have turned his back on anyone...All men should learn to forgive\". It was not just an attack on aesthetic differences between political ideologies, Castilho also endorsed his protégé (Chagas) for a professorship in the department of Modern Literature of the Faculty of Letters, and used his letter to champion him for the position, in which both Teófilo and his friend Antero Quental were interested.\n\nIn April 1868 Teófilo Braga married Maria do Carmo Xavier (Porto, 14 November 1841 – 14 September 1911), sister of Júlio de Matos, generally from a wealthy family (the couple would live at the Matos home for a time). Their life together would be tragic, marked by the premature deaths of their children: Joaquim, just after his birth (1869), Teófilo, at 13 (1886) and in March of the next year, Maria da Graça, at 16 (1887). Maria do Carmo, whose health was always fragile, was inconsolable (and by the time her husband held the Presidency her health was debilitated and she died away soon afterwards). Camilo Castelo Branco a declared enemy of the writer, would be unusually forgiving, when Teófilo's children died within a brief period of one another; at the time, Camilo would write the sonet \"A maior dor humana\" (English: \"The Greatest Human Pain\").\n\nHis political affiliations made it difficult to obtain a professorship at the Academia Politécnica do Porto (English: \"Polytechnic Academy of Oporto\"), as well as the Faculty of Law in Coimbra. Teófilo Braga had to wait a year, in 1872 (when he obtained his Law degree), in order to succeed in his application to a position as a full professor in Modern Literature, in a memorable public competition. He was the superior choice of the presiding judge of the committee, rather than his rival Manuel Pinheiro Chagas and Luciano Cordeiro, who were endorsed by semi-official patrons.\n\nTeófilo aspired to be a systematic thinker; a theorist based on evidence which permitted an intrepid and dogmatic interpretation of Man, world and life. It was therefore, no surprise, that he accepted the tenets of \"Positivism\". This positivist spirit would guide him between 1872 and 1877, under the influence of Joaquim Duarte Moreira de Sousa a professor of Mathematics in Castelo Branco, with whom he regularly had conversations. It was the teacher's curious spirit and admiration of Auguste Comte and Émile Littré that influenced Teófilo during this period. It was these influences that brought him to found, along with Júlio de Matos, the magazine \"O Positivismo\" in Oporto, between 1878 and 1882, to write \"Traços Gerais de Filosofia Positiva\" (English: \"General Ideas of Philosophical Positivism\"), 1877 and later \"Sistema de Sociologia\" (English: \"System of Sociology\"), 1884.\n\nWhile still professor of Letters and research fellow, Teófilo Braga was studious and unrested, yet he continued to give all his attention to his family (showering on them gifts from his poor remuneration). In his home on Travessa de Santa Gertrudes he lived a monastic lifestyle, usually broken by invitations from admirers or civic campaigns. But generally, he was able to concentrate on his writing, including his monumental \"História da Literatura Portuguesa\" (English: \"History of Portuguese Literature\"). With a vast repository of documents he would nurture interpretations of medieval romances and produce ultra-romantic works of realism. It was also during this time when he would show interests in ethnography, especially folklore: in 1867, \"História da Poesia Popular Portuguesa\" (English: \"History of Popular Portuguese Poetry\"), \"Cancioneiro Popular\" (English: \"Collection of Popular Poems\") and \"Romanceiro Geral\", and then later (1869) the book \"Cantos Populares do Arquipélago Açoreano' (English: \"Popular Stories of the Azorean Archipelago\"). He would repeat this style in 1883 \"Contos Tradicionais do Povo Português' (English: \"Traditional Stories of the Portuguese People\") and in 1885, two volumes entitled \"O Povo Português\" (English \"Collection of Portuguese Romances\"), about costumes and traditions, but his studies were generally criticized during the period.\n\nOn some occasions he was considered a plagiarist; Braga read profusely and was not too careful while editing his analyses, omitting citations and mentioning unreferenced ideas or the theories of others. The medic and politician Ricardo Jorge, didn't disguise his exasperation in his book \"Contra um plágio do Prof. Theófilo Braga\" (English: \"Against a Plagiarized Work of Professor Teófilo Braga\"), in 1917:\n\nEven Antero de Quental, who was friendly with Teófilo, referred to him as \"a hierophant of literary charlatanism\". The Brazilian historian Sílvio Romero, called him \"Papa dos charlatães\" (English: \"Father of Charlatans\"). José Relvas, another contemporary, was another person who dismissed his contributions; he noted that the \"prestige he gained was not justified, and that only those who didn't read his published works would admire him\".\n\nIn its political aspects, positivism was a version of republicanism that acknowledged the stratification of classes by the capitalist model. Teófilo, while reading the works of Comte, fixated on the more radical rationalisms on Philosophical Positivism. On the philosophies of Auguste Comte, defending the ideas of positivism. \"The positivist consolidated above all the idea that the Republic could not be just a coup d'état, and that maybe, we should dispense with revolutionary intentions.\" The Republicans believed that \"to create a Republic required a liberation of individuals of their older ideas...[that] without a doubt, it was [their] spiritual subjugation\" In Portugal of the time, about 50,000 individuals (in a population of less than six million) had declared themselves as non-Catholics. For Republicans, they believed that the population was captive to a Roman Catholic church that (during 1864) had \"condemned\" liberalism and all modern ideas. For the historian António Reis, Teófflo Braga's doctrinaire style was important in consolidating the Republican cause. His visceral Jacobinismo, allowed him to synthesize the theses of Republican Federalists; the themes of administrative decentralization, imperial mandates and limits which would allow the management of the Portuguese republican model of public education, on the combat of clerical ultramontanism, national sovereignty, and development of democratic ideals that would include universal suffrage. All these ideas would be elaborated in the newspapers \"A Vanguarda\", \"O Século\" and \"O Rebate\". The militancy of these works would serve as guides for many republicans of his time. Between 1879 and 1881 he would write many of his more political ideas, including \"Soluções Positivas da Política Portuguesa\" (English: \"Positivist Solutions to Portuguese Politics\"), 1879, \"História das Ideias Republicanas em Portugal\" (English: \"A History of Republican Ideas in Portugal\"), 1880, and \"Dissolução do Sistema Monárquico-Representativo\" (English: \"Dissolution of the Monarchical-Representative System\"), 1881. These propaganda pieces did not mean an end to his other works; in addition to participating in numerous comedies, festivals, clubs and republican associations, he was one of the personalities, in partnership with Ramalho Ortigão, to coordinate the fesitivities to mark the third centenary of the death of Luís Vaz de Camões, the epic Portuguese writer,(10 June 1880). He would later become a partner in the \"Academia Real das Ciências\" (English: \"Royal Academy of Sciences\"), Lisbon, and the \"Academia Real de História\" (English: \"Royal Academy of History\"), Madrid, where he would be honoured in subsequent years.\n\nBraga became active in Portuguese politics in 1878, when he campaigned for deputy as an independent federalist republican. Over the years, he had many jobs in the Portuguese Republican Party. He participated in the political barricades during the revolt in Oporto (31 January 1891), added to the list of members of the Republican Party and worked in partnership with Francisco Homem Cristo. The membership of the Republican Party in Lisbon never anticipated the success of the Republican revolt in the north. Teófilo and Homen Cristo attempted to win the sympathy of the army, but were largely unsuccessful, due partly to the romantic militaristic ideals of many of the soldiers. After the failure of the conspiracy, with many of those retreating or sent to a military tribunal in Leixões, the two criticized Lisbon Republicans for their lack of assistance for the rebels in Oporto. Teófilo occupied himself with arguing with the objectors and taking on an important role in the propaganda of the Republican Party. By 1896 he was a member of the \"Grupo Republicano de Estudos Sociais\" (English: \"Republican Social Studies Group\").\nThe political situation in Portugal had degraded after the 1890 British Ultimatum. Further, between the 19th Century and 20th Century, the system of power that rotated between the parties was slowly dismantled; the divisions introduced by João Franco and José Maria de Alpoim resulted in the creation of splinter groups in addition to the two historical constitutional parties (respectively, the Partido Regenerador Liberal alongside the Partido Regenerador and the Dissidência Progressista from the Partido Progressista), which would alter the rules of political coexistence. A dictatorship created by João Franco after May 1907 (endorsed by King D. Carlos) was an episode of cumulative crises provoked by Hintze Ribeiro, leader of the Partido Regenerador, and José Luciano de Castro, responsible for the Partido Progressista. Teófilo Braga accompanied many of these events, as well as the Franco dictatorship, the regicide and enthronement of King D. Manuel II, of which the journalist João Chagas wrote: \"...[Manuel II assumed the military regalia] when by now it was not needed\". The republican cause had grown in importance, helped by the Republican Party, freemasons, the Carbonária Portuguesa and by numerous groups of doctrinarian idealists influenced by the cause.\n\nOn 1 January 1910, he became an effective member of the Political Directorate of the party, joining Basílio Teles, Eusébio Leão, José Cupertino Ribeiro, and José Relvas. On 28 August 1910, he was elected deputy for Lisbon. The revolution began on the morning of 4 October 1910 and lasted until the next day. Teófilo Braga was acclaimed President of Provisional Government of the Portuguese Republic. But the old Republican Party would not survive the creation of the Republic; factions quickly developed between groups within the party to form new organizations: Afonso Costa's faction would form the Partido Democrático (the most populist, Jacobin and urban party), António José de Almeida founded the Partido Evolucionista (a contemporary faction that included the rural bouregoeis) and Brito Camacho created the União Republicana (which was an intellectual group with many of its members from Lisbon). The first conflict involved the electoral act: Afonso Costa's \"democrats\" wanted Bernardino Machado to be the first President of the Republic, but António José de Almeida and Manuel de Brito Camacho factions were able to elect Manuel de Arriaga for that title. Teófilo Braga, who was always more closely affiliated with the membership of the \"Democrats\" and owing to small problems with Arriaga, endorsed Bernardino Machado.\n\nHe would return to government in May 1915; he became the President of the Republic after the abrupt resignation of Manuel de Arriaga. Arriaga had supported Pimenta de Castro to run the government, and the General had established a dictatorship, which was eventually defeated. In disgrace the pacifist first President vacated the job, and the assembly elected Braga to the position.\n\nBraga was an extremely austere man; after becoming a widower, he was a recluse and occupied much of his time in his library. Even as President, he would walk, umbrella or cane in hand, everywhere, and generally, his Presidency itself was not an exercise in ostentatious living. Over time, as a man-of-letters, Teófilo Braga was recognized by historians as an erudite author. His final home, was on the second-floor of \"70 Rua de Santa Gertrudes à Estrela\", in Lisbon, and his neighbor usually accompanied him for breakfast or lunch. He wore over-used clothing, many of these clothes he repaired personally, including white linens which were his departed wife's possessions (and reminded him of their earlier life together). He was a solitary figure, and had lost many of his closest relations (his mother died early during his life, his father died in the Azores Islands, he lost his children in their infancies and his beloved wife died before he did), as well as his sight.\n\nIn his last will, he expressed his desire to be interred in a civil service, without ceremony. He died at 81 years of age, on 28 January 1924, and was buried in the Jerónimos Monastery in Belém, Lisbon.\n\nAs for his literary career, one can find books by Braga concerning the history of literature, on ethnography (mainly his search for popular stories and traditional songs), poetry, fiction, and philosophy. Braga's body of published work is also connected to historical investigation; while balancing philosophy, linguistics and culture he wrote \"História da Poesia Popular Portuguesa\" (English: \"The History of Popular Portuguese Poetry\"), \"História do Teatro Português\" (English: \"History of the Portuguese Theatre\") and \"História das Ideias Republicanas em Portugal\" (English: \"The History of Republican Ideals in Portugal\"). One of his most contentious, from a scientific point-of-view, was \"História do Romantismo em Portugal\" (English: \"The History of Romanticism in Portugal\"), in 1880, although his four-volume \"História da Universidade de Coimbra\" (English: \"History of the University of Coimbra\") is still considered important.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10623525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10623525", "title": "Théodore Eugène César Ruyssen", "text": "Théodore Eugène César Ruyssen\n\nThéodore Eugène César Ruyssen (11 August 1868 - 5 May 1967) was a French historian of philosophy and pacifist.\n\nRuyssen was born in Clisson, Loire-Atlantique, France. He was professor of the history of philosophy at the University of Bordeaux, and president of l'Association de la Paix par le Droit from 1896-1948.\n\nAfter a study trip through Germany upon leaving school in 1889, Ruyssen took up the profession of teaching in 1896. He taught philosophy in various schools and graduated as Doctor of Philosophy with a thesis on \"I'Evolution psychologique du Jugement\" in 1903. He lectured successively in the universities of Aix-en-Provence, Dijon and finally, Bordeaux, where he occupied the chair of History of Philosophy.\n\nRuyssen was the President of the \"Association de la paix par le droit\", the most important peace organization in France, which is widely known throughout the world through its official organ \"La Paix par le Droit,\" and a member of the International Peace Bureau in Berne.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15343375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15343375", "title": "Ulrich of Strasburg", "text": "Ulrich of Strasburg\n\nUlrich of Strasburg (c. 1225–1277) was a German Dominican theologian and scholastic philosopher from Strasbourg, Alsace. A disciple of Albertus Magnus, he is known for his \"Summa de Bono\", written 1265 to 1272.\n\n"}
{"id": "18400891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18400891", "title": "Unit-point atomism", "text": "Unit-point atomism\n\nAccording to some twentieth-century philosophers, unit-point atomism was the philosophy of the Pythagoreans, a conscious repudiation of Parmenides and the Eleatics. It stated that atoms were infinitesimally small (\"point\") yet possessed corporeality. It was a predecessor of Democritean atomism. Most recent students of presocratic philosophy, such as , Walter Burkert, Gregory Vlastos, Jonathan Barnes, and Daniel W. Graham have rejected that any form of atomism can be applied to the early Pythagoreans (before Ecphantus of Syracuse). \n\nUnit-point atomism was invoked in order to make sense of a statement ascribed to Zeno of Elea in Plato's \"Parmenides\": \"these writings of mine were meant to protect the arguments of Parmenides against those who make fun of him. . . My answer is addressed to the partisans of the many. . .\" The anti-Parmenidean pluralists were supposedly unit-point atomists whose philosophy was essentially a reaction against the Eleatics. This hypothesis, however, to explain Zeno's paradoxes, has been thoroughly discredited. \n"}
{"id": "3388152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3388152", "title": "Walayah", "text": "Walayah\n\nWelayah () means \"guardianship\".\n\nWelayah or Welaya, is a word which a power gives authority/guardianship to a person, community, or country that is under the direction and rule on behalf of another. \"Wali\" is someone who has \"Walayah\" (authority or guardianship) over somebody else. For example, in fiqh, a father is \"wali\" of his children. The word Wali holds a special importance in Islamic spiritual life and it is used with various meanings, which relate to its different functions, which include: “next of kin, ally, friend, helper, guardian, patron, and saint”. In Islam, the phrase \"walīyu l-Lāh\" can be used to denote one vested with the \"authority of God\":\n\n<br>\"In the name of God the Merciful, the Compassionate: Only God is your \"wali\" and his messenger and those who believe, establish worship, and pay the poor due while bowing down (in prayer).\"\n\nTwo verbal noun are derived from the Arabic root of the word w-l-y : Walayah and Wilayah which means to be near to something, to be a friend of someone or to have power. The term welayah also has similarity with AWLIA. The term Wali derives from Quran. It occurs also in a number of aḥādīṯ qodsīya or Hadith Qudsi, such as “whoever harms a friend (walī) of Mine, I declare war against him and others\".\nWelayah means literally \"nearness\" or \" closeness\" in which there is judgmental nearness on slavery. Also it means that being dependent of slave to Truth or God in annihilating. The welayah in the Sharia is the implementation of saying to others either will or not will.\nArab lexicographers and semanticist distinguish between two semantic fields and two vocalizations of wilayah namely \"wilayah\" and \"walayah\". According to that, walayah sometimes represent the sense of\" assistance, alliance or nusrah while wilayah very invariably denotes the idea of \" power, authority or sultan along with exception happen here.\n\nThere are several kinds of Walayah: Wila of love or nearness which implies that the household of the prophet are his near relatives and the believers should love them. Awliya Allah means the friends of Allah or the beloved of Allah. Walaya is a key word in Shi‘ism that refers among other things to the nature and function of the Imamate.\n\nAccording to Hamid Algar, the first definition of the Wali was provided by Abu’l-Qāsem Qošayrī (d. 467/1074-75) according to which: the wali has two kind of meaning including passive and active. Wali as passive designates one whose affaires are completely guided by God the exalted. Wali as active designated one who takes it on himself to worship God and obey him. According to Qošayrī, there meaning in a Wali. In other hand, some men of mystic like Najm-al-dīn Dāya , define the welayah according to concept of love and friendship. Also we can find out the other meaning for wali as \"closeness\" which means\" one who is close\". wali is an elected man among believers for the sake of his spiritual proximity to God Almighty. also walayah has a close relation to imamate; in other words there is inseparable linkage between Imamiyyah belief in the imamate and question of walayah which included five pillars such as love and devotion to the people of the household of the Prophet or Imams, following them in religion, obedience to their commands and abstention from what they prohibited, imitation of their actions and conduct, and recognition of their rights and belief in their imamate. Wila of leadership or authority over religious matters, such a position needs Ismah and the speech and deed of the leader is an example for others as is regarded in verses 33:21, 3:31. and whatever he says is a divine proof.Imams or Awliya all make up the long chain of the Friends of God who carry and transmit the divine Covenant or welayah. According to an esoteric interpretation, during the World of the Pact ('âlam* al-mîthâq)-a world with the \"pure beings\" in the form of particles or shadows – we can see four parts oaths including oaths of love and fidelity (walâya) toward Muhammad and his prophetic mission toward the Imams and their sacred Cause, and also toward the Mahdî as universal savior at the end of world. Mohammad Ali Amir-Moezzi believes that it is the very term of welayah that denotes the ontological-theological status of the Imam. It is said that walâya has a quiet simple translation along with two independent and complementary meanings. First it applies to the Imams of different prophets and also refers to their ontological status or their sacred initiatory mission. Second meaning is the \"chief,\" the \"master\" of believers par excellence. In this acceptation, walî is a synonym of wasî or the inheritor or the heir. According to second meaning , walaya Applied to the faithful of the Imams. It also denotes the unfailing love, faith, and submission that the initiated owe to their holy initiating guide.\"\nshia believe that every great prophet is accompanied by one or more Imams in his mission.\n\nSpiritual Walayah which concerns changing the potentials to the action and making the people to get to the divine nearness, therefore there is a proof in every age. The Wali has a kind of creative power over the world and the men. Corbin states that Walayah is the foundation of the prophecy and the mission of the messenger. And it concerns to the esoteric dimension of the prophetic reality. Abu al-Hasan Sharif Isfahani, a student of Muhammad Baqir Majlisi, by many hadith argues that \"the walayah is the inner, esoteric meaning (batin) of the Qur'anic Revelation.\".\nMulla Sadra states that the genealogical descendants of Muhammad and his spiritual heirs are Awliya. Dakake describes Walayah as a spiritual inheritance, esoteric knowledge, that Imams inherit from the prophets. Which expresses the spiritual and political authority of ahl al-Bayt. Tabatabaei regards that Walayah is the esoteric dimension of the Imamah and it is not just guiding the man, but it is conveying the man to the Truth.\n\nBy verse 42:23 and hadith of Ghadir, the prophet called the Muslims to love his pure, sinless family. Al-Tabari, Az-Zamakhshari and Fakhru'd-Din ar-Razi state that verse 5:55 is revealed about Ali. The verse implies that Allah and His prophet is the Wali and the holders of the authority of the Muslims and the believers must accept their Wila. This bond of love further causes that the Muslims follow their speeches, deeds, behaviors. In Quran, the term walayah is used in conjunction with nusrah and it is not only used in relation to God but also is used for those who have perfect devotion to God. Some traditions state that the verse 7:172 deals with the primordial pact (mithaq) that God has taken for His Lordship and the Walayah to the prophet and the ahl al-Bayt. In the Quran, the term showes a link between faithfulness to God and devotion to the members of the community. Tabatabaei claims that wherever Quran ascribes the guardianship for the prophet, it means authority and devotion. By the verse 5:55, he claims that as the word Walayah once is used for Allah and His messenger and those who have believed, though they are under His Guardianship and at last he proves that the prophet's obedience is God's obedience.\n\nar-Razi quotes from az-Zamakhshari that the Prophet said: \"Who so ever died in the love of the Household of Muhammad has died a martyr; Whosoever died in the love of the Household of Muhammad has died in forgiveness; Whosoever died in the love of the Household of Muhammad has died a believer and in the perfection of his faith. Whosoever dies in enmity to the family of Muhammad, dies an nbeliever. Whosoever dies in enmity of the family of Muhammad,will not smell the scent of Paradise.\"\nA hadith al-Baqir narrates that \"Islam is built upon five: prayer, alms-giving, fasting, pilgrimageand walayah; and not one of them was proclaimed, the way walayah was proclaimed. Hasan ibn Ali narrates that after professing tawhid and the mission of the prophets, nothing is more important than professing to the Walayah of Imams. Ja'far al-Sadiq told that Imam separates the people of the Heaven from the Hell, without any judgement, because their love for the Imam is their Heaven or Hell respectively. The prophet tells Ali that he heard Allah say to him: \"I wrote thy name and his name on My Throne before creating the creatures because of my love of you both. Whoever loves you and takes you as friends numbers among those drawn-nigh to Me. Whoever rejects your walayah and separates himself from you numbers among the impious transgressors against Me.\".\" Al-Baqir states that \"...There was never a prophet nor an angel who did not profess the religion of our love.\"\n\nIn Shia tradition Walayah is not only one of the pillars of Islam, but it is the religion itself. For Shia, Imamah is bound with the Walayah which is believing their Imamate and loving them, following and obeying them in religion and in their deeds. Shia argue that the salvation is in the practice of the Walayah to the ahl al-Bayt. and an intention of love is required for the acceptance of every religious act. Many hadith by Imams narrate that \"the first thing about which a man is questioned after his death is his love for ahl al-Bayt. If he has professed this love (walayah) and died professing it, then his deeds are acceptable to Allah. If he has not professed this love, then none of his works will be capable of being accepted by Allah.\" Muhammad Baqir Majlisi states that all Imamis agree that deeds without love to Imams are empty formality and Allah's approval is conditioned to Imam. The ulu l-azm got this title by accepting the Walayah of the prophet and the Imams and Mahdi. The prophet established the religion and Imams are to preserve the religion and to lead the people by the divine guidance (Walayah) which they inherited through the prophet. A hadith narrates \"He who knows himself knows his Lord\", but without theophanic form (Mazhar) and the Face of Allah, through whom Allah displays Himself, even to speak of Allah is impossible. Without the knowledge of Allah and Divine revelation, man will be trapped in ta'til (anthropomorphism)and tashbih (agnosticism).\n\nAccording to Shia the end of the prophecy was the beginning of Walayah which is its esoteric dimension and complementary. Walayah embraces both the idea of knowledge (Ma'rifah) and the idea of love (Mahabbah). While prophecy is the exoteric (zahir) dimension of religion, Walayah is its esoteric (batin) dimension; they are simultaneous. Walayah is the esoteric dimension of Shariah which renews the man and the religion spiritually in all the times and purifies the society without any need to a new religion. Wali carries the Muhammadan Light which has existed in all the prophets. By this Muhammadan Light, Imam leads over the society, propagates the religion and guides the spiritual life of the men. Shi'ism believe that the cycle of the prophecy is succeeded by the cycle of Imamah which of its essentials is Walayah e.g. \"the esoteric aspect of prophecy\". They as the Friends of Allah (awliya' Allah) get the divine secrets through the divine inspiration and on this basis God make them the human Guides. The prophet reveals the shariah (zahir) and Imam brings the haqiqah (batin) of the religion so the batin is not separate from the zahir.\nWalayah is the foundation of the prophecy (nubuwah) and the messengership (risalah), so, closer to the inner realities, more sufficient and nearer to God. As Wali is concerned with guiding the spiritual life of the community, his presence in the community is not effective.\nAs all the possible beings are dependent to self-existent, this dependence results on the authority of the self-existent; so Walayah is just his right and he can designate this authority to whom he chooses.\n\nThe concept of Walayah is present at the early Shia history which indicates the legitimacy of Alids and an allegiance to ahl al-Bayt. The term derives from a statement from the Prophet at Ghadir Khumm, in which he reportedly designated Ali as the Mawla or Wali of the believers. During the Imamate of al-Baqir and al-Sadiq, the concept of Walayah, as a prerequisite for membership in the Shia community, becomes a fundamental concept in the Shia discourse and is reinterpreted. It implies a state of full devotion to ahl al-Bayt and a recognition of their exclusive right to legitimate leadership of the community. Shia argues that the perfection of the religion depends on the practice of Walayah. Walayah as one of the fundamentals of Islam, deriven from Ghadir Khum traditions by al-Baqir, originates at his time. And it is presented as the essence of the religion in this period. At the Time of al-Sadiq, the focus on the term Walayah changed to Imamah. In this age, the word iman and Walayah is tied. Later on Walayah is replaced by iman. By the First Civil War, It is used side by side with the word enmity (adawah) reflecting the loyalty to the Shia community. There is a problem about definition of walī and his attributes when wali compared to prophet. It seems that the notion of wali was superior to nabi in 3rd/9th. Someones such as Abū Bakr Ḵarrāz(d. 286/899) and following him, Ḥakīm Termeḏī (d. between 295/907 and 310/922) refuted this superiority. They believed that the prophet hood has superiority to Wali. However they maintained that there are many different categories for welayah. In this occasion, Ḥakīm Termeḏī divided wlai into two categories as welāya ʿāmma which is embracing the totality of the believers and welāya ḵāṣṣa which is pertaining exclusively to the spiritual elect.\nIbn Arabi also refers to relation between nabi and wali. He believes that although the prophet is indeed superior to wali, nabi is himself a wali besides being prophet. Ibn Arabi also mentioned that the wali-aspect of nabi's being is superior to the nabi-dimension. Also Syed Ahmad Khan agreed with the Ibn Arabi's view and explained it.\n\nWalayah or Walayat is a pillar of Shia Islam specifically in Ismaili and Druze denoting:\n\nOne should have Walayat (guardianship of the faith) on the wali. If someone has been made Wali of yours than have full walayat (guardianship of faith) of him. Dawoodi Bohras believe Walayah to be the most important of the seven pillars of Islam. It is the acceptance of guardian ship of Allah, through their Dai, Imam, Wasi (Wali) Ali and Nabi Muhammad. To accept that Ali is Wali of Allah is doing \"Walayat\" of Ali. For Shia \"Walayat' of Ali ( and his further representative) is a must.\n\nThere is an incident famous amongst the Dawoodi Bohra which confirm how they mean and weigh the principle of \"walayah\". An order was issued by the 19th \"Da'i al-Mutlaq\", Syedna Idris Imaduddin, to his \"Wali al-Hind\", Moulai Adam, to follow a person named \"Sakka\". Moulai Adam, along with his followers, willingly performed prayer behind \"Sakka\", who was a simple water carrier by trade. This showed that Adam had full \"walayah\" for his Da'i and had willingly accepted his guardianship and followed his order.\n\n\"Wali\" in the most literal form of the word means \"a person, community, or country that is under the direction and rule of another\". It is an Arabic word derived from the root \"wly\" , which carries the basic meanings of “friendship, assistance”, and “authority or power”. from The word holds a special importance in Islamic spiritual life and it is used with various meanings, which relate to its different functions, which include: “next of kin, ally, friend, helper, guardian, patron, and saint”. The eternal prophetic reality has two aspects: extoric and esoteric.\nIn its connotation of sainthood, the word describes an innate sense of selflessness and separation from one’s own wants in favor of awareness of being “under the dominion of the all-living, self-subsistent one and of the need to acquire nearness to the necessarily existent being – which is God.”.\nIndividuals that have attained this level are believed to be both favored and live in a state of nearness with God. The first step in sainthood is indicated in the Qur'an verse (2:257):\n\"God is He Who loves, guards and directs those who believe; He has led them out of all kinds of darkness into the light, and keeps them firm therein.\"\nand also in (10:62):\n\"Know well that the confidants (saintly servants) of God-there will be no reason for them to fear (both in this world and the next, for they shall always find My help and support with them), nor shall they grieve\".\nOne who has been favored with sainthood is called a \"wali\" or \"Waliullah\", meaning a saint. \"Waliullah\" may also be translated as a word used to describe a certain group of people selected by God from among millions of others to be “His friends” because of their closeness to God. And thus, a saint, or a friend to God, is thought to have favor in the eyes of the Lord.\nFor an individual to achieve walaya, or sainthood, a person must first become, and remain, a pristine example of a truly religious person, an example for all other Muslims to look up to. Upon these individuals, the peace and blessing of God have been placed. In the Qur'an, walaya is expressed in the fable of the rich but immoral owner of two gardens and his poor but pious companion. The rich man ends up a loser despite his prosperity and power, for ultimately, the walayah belongs to God, the Truth (18:44).\nIt is said that “Saints, as exemplary Muslims, represent the highest virtues and religious commitment worthy of emulation.\" These individuals who have reached such statuses in the Muslim religion are thought to bridge the gap between followers and their God and the common folk. Waliyy, or saints can be both men and women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "996719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996719", "title": "Walter Charleton", "text": "Walter Charleton\n\nWalter Charleton (2 February 1619 – 24 April 1707) was a natural philosopher and English writer. \n\nAccording to Jon Parkin, he was \"the main conduit for the transmission of Epicurean ideas to England\".\n\nHe was the son of the rector of Shepton Mallett in Somerset, where he was born 2 February 1619. He received his early education from his father, and when sixteen entered Magdalen Hall, Oxford, under the tuition of John Wilkins. At the early age of 22 (1641) he received the degree of M.D. and in the same year was appointed physician to Charles I, who was then at Oxford. In 1650 Charleton settled in London, and was on 8 April admitted a candidate of the College of Physicians. A royalist, he was appointed physician to the exiled king Charles II but remained in London writing, in Russell Street, Covent Garden.\n\nHe was continued in his office of physician at the Restoration, and was one of the first elected fellows of the Royal Society in 1663; on 23 January 1676 he was admitted a fellow of the Royal College of Physicians. He gave the first lectures delivered in the Cutlerian Theatre in Warwick Lane, in 1680 delivered the Harveian oration, and was president in 1689 and 1691. After his last year of presidency at the College of Physicians, Charleton left London and a dwindling medical practice. He retired to Nantwich; but returned to London, and was senior censor in the College of Physicians from 1698 to 1706, and delivered Harveian orations in 1702 and 1706, when he was also appointed Harveian librarian. He died 24 April 1707. \n\nHe had in early life read much in Van Helmont, and spent time in reading and composition, rather than with patients. Thomas Hobbes, Lord Dorchester, Sir Francis Prujean and George Ent were his friends.\n\nHe was a copious writer also on theology, natural history, and antiquities, and published \"Chorea Gigantum\" (1663) to prove that Stonehenge was built by the Danes. Charleton claimed it was used by them as a place of assembly, and of the inauguration of kings. The only argument is that similar stone works exist in Denmark, a fact supplied to Charleton by the Danish antiquary, Wormius, with whom he had corresponded on the book of Inigo Jones in which Stonehenge is said to be a Roman temple. The \"Chorea Gigantum\" had a poem by John Dryden written in its praise, the \"Epistle to Dr. Charleton\", prefixed to the presentation copy given to the king.\n\nHe was one of the \"character\" writers, and in this kind of literature wrote an essay \"A Brief Discourse concerning the Different Wits of Men\" (1675).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33517615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33517615", "title": "Yuthok Yontan Gonpo the Younger", "text": "Yuthok Yontan Gonpo the Younger\n\nYuthok Yonten Gonpo the Younger (Wylie transliteration g.yu thog gsar ma yon tan mgon po) (1126–1202) was a Tibetan doctor and \"ngakpa\" (lay, non-monastic tantric practitioner), credited with composing the \"Four Medical Tantras\" (\"rgyud bzhi\"), a four-book treatise on Traditional Tibetan Medicine which forms the main course of study in the Tibetan medical tradition. He is widely regarded as the main founder of Tibetan medicine, mostly based on his composition of the \"Four Medical Tantras\". His other important contribution to Tibetan culture was the \"Yuthok Nyingthik\", whose full name is the \"Yuthok Nyingthik Guru Sādhanā, ‘Compassionate Sunlight for Dispersing Suffering’s Darkness’\" (\"g.yu thog snying thig bla sgrub sdug bsngal mun sel nyi ma’i ’od zer\"), which is the main Tantric Buddhist practice-cycle associated with Tibetan medicine. It is traditionally considered to be an important spiritual component of healing in Tibetan medical culture, and moreover is regarded in all Tibetan Buddhist traditions as a very special method for attaining awakening and realization quickly. \n\nBorn in the village of Goshi Rethang in Western Tibet, his father was Yuthok Khyungpo Dorje and his mother Pema Odenma. Yuthok was from a family lineage of royal court Traditional Tibetan Medicine doctors who trace their origin to the time of King Lha Thothori (441–561). At age eight, he began to study—with his father and other teachers, including Manjusri—a wide range of topics from medicine, Buddhism, and the arts and languages. \nAt age fourteen, he began traveling through Central Tibet, where he met a Geshe called Roton Konchok Kyap who transmitted the \"Four Tantras: the Essence of Ambrosia Secret Instruction\" to Yuthok. At age eighteen, he traveled to India for the first time, where he studied the \"Eight Branches of Healing\", \"Somaradza\", and other treatises on medicine with Paldan Phreng-ba. \nWhen he was twenty-one, Yuthok returned to Tibet, where he set up a clinic and began teaching medicine to his students. At thirty-one, he returned to India, where he received a teaching which later became known as the \"Yuthok Nyingthig\", \"The Innermost Essence of Yuthok\". It is said that he traveled to India six times. His heart-disciple was Sumton Yeshe Sung, who received the \"Four Tantras\" and the \"Yuthok Nyingthig\".\nIt is said that at age seventy-six, Yuthok gathered his students for a final teaching before attaining the Rainbow Body and departing to Tunadug, the pure land of the Medicine Buddha.\n\nThe Secret Quintessential Instructions on the Eight Branches of the Ambrosia Essence Tantra or The Four Tantras\nThis is a collection of four tantras which comprise the basis of Traditional Tibetan Medicine. It is divided into the \"Root Tantra\" (\"rtsa rgyud\"), \"The Explanatory Tantra\" (\"bshe rgyud\"), \"The Oral-instruction Tantra\" (\"man ngag rgyud\"), and \"The Subsequent Tantra\" (\"phyi ma rgyud\"). The \"Root Tantra\" has six chapters and gives (1) an introduction, (2) general outline of topics, (3) the basis of disease, (4) diagnosis, (5) methods of treatment, and (6) an enumeration of the metaphors used in Traditional Tibetan Medicine. The \"Explanatory Tantra\" is divided into eleven divisions and thirty-one chapters, and covers (1) a summary of fundamentals, (2) the life cycle, (3) fundamentals of pathology, (4) behavior and lifestyle, (5) diet, (6) pharmacology, (7) tools of the physician, (8) health and prevention, (9) diagnosis, (10) method of treatment, and (11) ethics of a physician. The \"Oral-instruction Tantra\" has fifteen divisions that are explained in ninety-two chapters; the divisions include (1) pathology of the three humors, (2) internal disorders, (3) fever, (4)pathology of the upper parts of the body, (5) pathology of the solid and hollow organs, (6) genital disorders, (7) common diseases, (8) dermatology, (9) pediatrics, (10) gynecological disorders, (11) disorders caused by spirit provocation, (12) injury, (13) toxicology, (14) longevity, and (15) aphrodisiacs. The \"Subsequent Tantra\" has four topics in twenty-five chapters, including (1) diagnosis, (2) pharmacological formulae, (3) purifying therapies, and (4) external therapies.\n\nYuthok Nyingthik (g.yu thog snying thig) is a practice of tantra featuring Buddhist practices which combine Traditional Tibetan Medicine and Vajrayana. \n\nThese practices are part of a family lineage held by \"ngakpa\"s that were handed down through the Yuthok family until they were taught to Sumton Yeshe Zung, the heart-disciple of Yuthok Yonten Gonpo the Younger. Recent lineage holders include the late Khenpo Truro Tsenam, the late Khenpo Tsultrim Gyaltsen, and Micho Khedrub Gyatso Rinpoche. Currently, Dr. Nida Chenagtsang is teaching this lineage as well.\n\nThe \"Yuthok Nyingthik\" is a complete Vajrayana cycle, including Ngöndro, Generation stage (\"bskyed rim\") practices including four forms of Yuthok Guru Yoga and practices of Deva (Yidam) and Dakini, Completion stage (\"rdzogs rim\") practices, including the Six Yogas, and Dzogchen. The cycle includes additional practices: \"mendrub\" (\"sman sgrub\") or rituals for empowering and blessing medicine, healing and protection mantras, several offering rituals, longevity practices, Medical Protectors, and instructions on a form of pulse diagnosis. Lastly, there are fifteen topics addressing diagnosis and treatment within Traditional Tibetan Medicine.\n\n\n"}
