{"id": "12645376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12645376", "title": "A Home on the Range", "text": "A Home on the Range\n\nA Home on the Range: The Jewish Chicken Ranchers of Petaluma is a 2002 documentary by Bonnie Burt and Judith Montell about a group of Jews who fled from pogroms in Eastern Europe and prejudice in America to organized a socialist society in rural Northern California, where they relied on raising chickens to support themselves.\n\n“Who said Jews could not be farmers? Spit in his eye, who would so harm us?” Scott Gerber, a former resident of Petaluma, belts out the lyrics to his acoustic guitar. Although the chicken ranches in Petaluma have more recently been abandoned, Scott has maintained his Jewish culture and his love for the land, working as a cowboy and singing Yiddish folk songs.\n\n\"A Home on the Range\" shows old photographs and archival color footage of Petaluma that bring the town to life. These visuals, along with interviews of former residents, reconstruct an idealistic society that put in hard work collecting and cleaning eggs but enjoyed lectures given by top notch Jewish poets and philosophers given at the Community Hall. United by their culture, the Jews of Petaluma cared for one another as extended family and survived the antisemitism of pre-World War II and anticommunist sentiments of the McCarthy era. But with time and assimilation, the quirky community dwindled, and, today, their chicken ranches have been replaced by telecommunication, dairy farms and vineyards.\n\nFor many of the Jews in Petaluma, Judaism was more of a culture than a religion. One former resident says that people kept the holidays for the social attachment, and another spouts, “Judaism—there wasn't any!” In fact, when they were building their meeting hall it was almost unanimously decided to not build a synagogue—until they learned it could be a tax write off. For them, Judaism had nothing to do with God. Instead, it meant that they spoke Yiddish, ate matzah, and wanted to form a kibbutz. But most of all, it meant they were outsiders to American society. They were second rate citizens, called names, and not allowed in Country Clubs.\n\nThey had fled pogroms in Russia and antisemitism in urban America to live in a rural Jewish community, but still they faced antisemitism from their surrounding neighbors. One woman remembers, “they used to call us dirty Jew.” And another woman remembers a particularly frightening night when an antisemitic neighbor threw a barn party and the drunk and rowdy crowd terrified her parents so much that they couldn't sleep that night. These incidents ingrained the Jews with a painful feeling of being “lesser” than other Americans. But nothing can compare to the violent night that Gentile leaders in the neighboring community took out their antisemitism and anticommunist fears through brute force against the men of Petaluma.\n\nIt wasn't prejudice that destroyed their community, but acceptance. Once Jewish Americans were no longer looked down on, they assimilated into society, and the vibrant community of chicken ranchers in Petaluma dwindled. One former resident who grew up on a ranch and raised her children on a ranch expresses her mixed feelings about assimilation. She pines that she lost, “the core” sense of attachment, but in exchange, “we were accepted as Americans.”\n\nFor the past twenty years, Bonnie Burt has been making documentaries about Jewish life. Her films have screened at the Museum of Modern Art and at Lincoln Center in New York.\nBonnie says she'd heard about Petaluma before she moved to California from the East Coast. It wasn't until 1992 at the Madrid Jewish Film Festival that she teamed up with Judy Montell, and the two began to work on the project together.\n\n\"A Home on the Range\" was well received. The San Diego Jewish Film Festival called it a modest film that \"reads almost like an epic myth.\" Other reviews praised it for being a through and entertaining documentary that raises issues that are still relevant in Jewish American society today.\n\nOther Documentaries about Jews in America:\n\nMore information on Jewish communes:\n\n"}
{"id": "101883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101883", "title": "Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan", "text": "Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan\n\nAbd al-Malik ibn Marwan ( \"‘Abd al-Malik ibn Marwān\", 6468 October 705) was the 5th Umayyad caliph. He was born in Medina, Hejaz. Abd al-Malik was a well-educated man and capable ruler who was able to solve many political problems that impeded his rule. The 14th-century Arab historian and philosopher Ibn Khaldun stated that \"`Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan was one of the greatest Arab and Muslim Caliphs. He followed in the footsteps of `Umar ibn al-Khattab, the Commander of the Believers, in regulating state affairs\".\n\nDuring his reign, all important records were translated into Arabic, and for the first time, a special currency for the Muslim world was minted, which led to war with the Byzantine Empire under Justinian II. The Byzantines were led by Leontios at the Battle of Sebastopolis in 692 in Asia Minor and were decisively defeated by al-Malik after the defection of a large contingent of Slavs. The Islamic currency was then made the only currency of exchange in the Muslim world. Also, many reforms happened in his time relating to agriculture and commerce. Al-Malik extended and consolidated Muslim rule, made Arabic the state language and organised a regular postal service.\n\nAbd al-Malik spent most of his early life in Medina with his father. There, he developed useful relationships with the religious circles of the city. He studied Islamic jurisprudence under Umm Darda as Sughra in Damascus. At 16, he was given limited responsibilities by Muawiya II. In 683, he and his father were driven out of Medina by local rebels. On the way to Damascus, he crossed paths with the Syrian army, entailed with the task of ending the rebellion.\n\nHe was responsible for the giving of useful advice and information that helped to end that problem. His father was appointed to be caliph in 684 but only created a feud between the northern and southern Arab tribes.\n\nAbd al-Malik became caliph after the death of his father Marwan I in 685, amidst the ongoing Second Fitna. Within a few years, he dispatched armies on a campaign to reassert Umayyad control over the Islamic empire. He first defeated the governor of Basra, Mu'sab ibn al-Zubayr. In Iraq, he was facing three distinct groups (the Kharijites, Shi'a, and Abd-Allah ibn al-Zubayr and his followers) that were fighting amongst themselves and against Umayyad control. Al-Zubayr was the more dangerous of the three, as he had been named caliph in Mecca and other provinces were getting behind him. Abd al-Malik bided his time for three years while they weakened themselves. During this hiatus, al-Zubayr's brother, Mus'ab, defeated the Shi'a in 687, which allowed them to commit a large force against the Kharijites.\n\nAbd al-Malik then appointed one of his most able generals and administrators who would later change the face of the Umayyad Empire, al-Hajjaj bin Yousef to march against al-Zubayr, the now-governor of Hejaz. He was initially unsuccessful in 689, as he needed to return to Damascus to help quell a rebellion. Again, in 690, he met with failure. Only after the northern tribes had finally capitulated in 691 did success start. He defeated the weakened army of Mus'ab by bribing many of his soldiers to switch sides and kill their leader.\n\nHe then turned his attention to the caliph, al-Zubayr. It should be noted that al-Zubayr controlled a large majority of the empire outside Umayyad core in Syria and Egypt, and more importantly, controlled Mecca and Medina. Ibn-al Zubayr was a living sahabah of Muhammad who stood opposed to Umayyad rule. Hajjaj besieged Mecca in 692 with almost 12,000 Syrian troops. He advanced unopposed as far as his native Taif, which he took without any fighting and used as a base. The caliph had charged him first to negotiate with al-Zubayr and to assure him of freedom from punishment if he capitulated or, if opposition continued, to starve him out by siege, but on no account to let the affair result in bloodshed in Mecca. Since the negotiations failed and al-Hajjaj lost patience, he sent a courier to ask Abd al-Malik for reinforcements and also for permission to take Mecca by force. He received both and thereupon bombarded the Holy City using catapults from the mountain of Abu Qubays. The bombardment continued during the month of the Pilgrimage or Hajj.\n\nAfter the siege had lasted for seven months and 10,000 men, among them two of Abdullah Ibn al-Zubair's sons, had gone over to Hajjaj, Abd-Allah ibn al-Zubayr with a few loyal followers, including his youngest son, were killed in the fighting around the Kaaba (Jumadah I 73/October 692).\n\nHajjaj's success led Abd al-Malik to assign him the role of governor of Iraq and give him free rein in the territories he controlled. Hajjaj arrived when there were many deserters in Basra and Kufa. He continually faced rebellions from the Kharijites but was always able to put them down. He promptly and forcefully impelled them to return to combat. Hajjaj, after years of serious fighting, quelled religious disturbances, including the rebellion launched by Salih ibn Musarrih and continued after Salih's death by Shabib. The rebels repeatedly defeated more numerous forces and at their height entered Kufah. However, Abd al-Malik's Syrian reinforcements enabled Hajjaj to turn the tide.\n\nBy 697, the Kharijites were no longer much of a problem. Under Hajjaj, Arab armies put down the revolt of Abd al-Rahman ibn Muhammad ibn al-Ash'ath in Iraq and Afghanistan from 699 to 704 and also took most of Turkestan. Abd al-Rahman rebelled after Hajjaj's repeated orders to push further into the lands of Zundil. After his defeat in Iraq, again achieved through Abd al-Malik's dispatch of Syrian reinforcements to Hajjaj, Abd al-Rahman returned east. There, one city closed its gates to him, and in another, he was seized. However, Zundil's army arrived and secured his release. Later, Abd al-Rahman died and Zundil sent his head to Hajjaj, who sent it to Abd al-Malik. These victories paved the way for greater expansions under Abd al-Malik's son Al-Walid.\n\nHajjaj decided that the best way to rule Iraq was to treat them as enemy territory. He built a new city, Wasit, which he used as a garrison city for his Syrian troops and also as his private residence.\n\nHe was effective in increasing the size of the empire. In Maghreb (western North Africa) in 686, a force led by Zuhayr ibn Qais won the Battle of Mamma over Byzantines and Berbers led by Kusaila, on the Qairawan plain, retaking Ifriqiya and its capital Kairouan.\n\nIn 695, Hasan ibn al-Nu'man captured Carthage with the help of the Berbers, and advanced into the Atlas Mountains. A Byzantine fleet arrived, retaking Carthage, but in 698 al-Nu'man returned and defeated Tiberios III at the Battle of Carthage. The Byzantines withdrew from all of Africa except Ceuta.\n\nHasan met trouble from the Zenata tribe of Berbers under al-Kahina. It inflicted a serious defeat on him and drove him back to Barqa. However, in 702, Abd al-Malik strongly reinforced Hasan. Now with a large army and the support of the settled population of North Africa, Hasan pushed forward. He decisively defeated the Zenata in a battle at Tabarka, 85 miles west of Carthage. He then developed the village of Tunis, 10 mi from the destroyed Carthage. Around 705, Musa ibn Nusayr replaced Hasan. He had pacified much of Northern Africa despite his failure to take Ceuta.\n\nRelations between the Arabs and the Byzatines along their border in Anatolia had been calm since 680, with a truce largely holding up. Emboldened by success in his European provinces, however, Byzantine Emperor Justinian II managed by threat to augment the sum paid by the Umayyad Caliphs as an annual tribute, and to regain control of part of Cyprus. The incomes of the provinces of Armenia and Iberia were divided among the two empires. In 687, as part of his agreements with the Caliphate, Justinian removed from their native Lebanon 12,000 Christian Maronites, who continually resisted the Arabs. In 688, Abd al-Malik signed a treaty with Justinian II which rendered Cyprus neutral ground, with its tax revenue split. In 692, he resumed fighting in Anatolia and in that year Abd al-Malik fought and won the Battle of Sebastopolis (mostly identified with Elaiussa Sebaste in Cilicia but also with modern Sulusaray). Initially looking like a defeat, thousands of the Byzantine Emperor's Slavic troops defected, changing the tide of the fight. It was a crushing victory for Abd al-Malik, and ended the peace that had existed between the two powers since 680.\n\nAbd al-Malik instituted many reforms such as:\n\nHe also built the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem. The Muslim scholar al-Wasiti reports this event:\n\nThe two engineers Raja' ibn Hayweh, from Baysan, and Yazid ibn Salam, a Jerusalemite, were ordered to spend generously on the construction. In his \"Book of the Geography\", Al-Muqaddasi reported that seven times the revenue of Egypt was used to build the Dome. During a discussion with his uncle on why the Caliph spent lavishly on building the mosques in Jerusalem and Damascus, al-Maqdisi writes:\n\nAbd al-Malik's first issue of coins replaced images with words, to appease aniconistic clerics. After this, the style became predominant on Islamic coins.\n\nThe Abbasid and Umayyad Caliphates were strong adversaries and fought on multiple occasions for control of the region. There existed a strong animosity between the two dynasties, which can be traced back to tribal ancestral relations.\n\nAl Masudi narrates an event where Al Mansur, the second Abbasid Caliph, describes Abd al-Malik as \"an arrogant tyrant who did not care what he did.\"\n\nSalih ibn Ali, a famous Abbasid general, mentions to Al Mansur, the second Abbasid Caliph, that Abd Allah (Abd Al-Malik), the son of Marwan, fled to the land of the Christian Nubians with a small following where he was questioned by the King as to their current situation and what had befallen them.\n\nSalih ibn Ali is unable to recall the rest of the narration and Abd Allah, a prisoner in Al Mansur's court at the time, is brought before Mansur and prompted to relay the event. Abd Allah claims that \"I was in Nubia three days when the King came to visit me\" and although \"I had spread out a valuable carpet\" to welcome the King, he chose to sit on the ground stating that a king must humble himself. The Nubian king criticized Abd Allah for drinking alcohol and wearing brocade and silk and gold \"in spite of the prohibitions of your Book and your religion.\" Abd Allah replied saying, \"as power fled from us, we have adopted support from alien races...and we have adopted these clothes from them.\"\n\nThe King bowed his head in silence, then lifted his head and replied, \"It is not the way you tell it! No! Your people permitted themselves what God forbade. You broke God's commandments and oppressed those you ruled. Then God stripped you of your power and dressed you in the ignominy of your crimes.\" The King feared that divine punishment would follow to his land, inadvertently striking him as well. Thus, the King explains that the rights of the guest lasts for three days, Abd Allah's visit was over, and that he should \"take the provisions you need and ride out of my country.\" Upon hearing this, Al Mansur was greatly moved and elected to release Abd Allah out of pity. However, Isa ibn Ali, his uncle, reminded Mansur that Abd Allah had already received the oath of allegiance as Marwan's heir, so they had him escorted back to prison.\n\n The last years of his reign were generally peaceful. He wanted his son al-Walid I to succeed him, ignoring his father's decree that Abd al-Malik should be succeeded by his brother, Abd al-Aziz. However, al-Malik accepted advice not to create disturbances and so changed his mind. In the event, Abd al-Aziz died before Abd al-Malik, who then had his sons Al-Walid and Sulayman, in that order, accepted as heirs to the throne. To history, Abd al-Malik is known as the \"Father of Kings\": his four sons succeeded him as the caliph one after another though with Umar II, son of Abd al-Aziz succeeding Sulayman. Abd al-Malik died at al-Sinnabra in 705.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292388", "title": "Algerian nationalism", "text": "Algerian nationalism\n\nAlgerian nationalism is the nationalism of Algerians and Algerian culture. Algerian nationalism was inspired by Ben Badis who opposed French colonial rule in Algeria.\n\nA new generation of Muslim leadership emerged in Algeria at the time of World War I and grew to maturity during the 1920s and 1930s. It consisted of a small but influential class of \"évolués\", other Algerians whose perception of themselves and their country had been shaped by wartime experiences, and a body of religious reformers and teachers. Some of these people were members of the few wealthy Muslim families that had managed to insinuate themselves into the colonial system in the 1890s and had with difficulty succeeded in obtaining for their sons the French education coveted by progressive Algerians. Others were among the about 173,000 Algerians who had served in the French army during World War I or the several hundred thousand more who had assisted the French war effort by working in factories. Many Algerians stayed on in France after 1918, and sent the money they earned there to their relatives in Algeria. In France they became aware of a standard of living higher than any they had known at home and of democratic political concepts, taken for granted by Frenchmen in France, which \"colons\", soldiers, and bureaucrats had refused to apply to the Muslim majority in Algeria. Some Algerians also became acquainted with the pan-Arab nationalism growing in the Middle East.\n\nOne of the earliest movements for political reform was an integrationist group, the Young Algerians (\"Jeunese Algérienne\"). Its members were drawn from the small, liberal elite of well-educated, middle-class \"évolués\" who demanded an opportunity to prove that they were French as well as Muslim. In 1908 they delivered to France's Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau a petition that expressed opposition under the status quo to a proposed policy to conscript Muslim Algerians into the French army. If, however, the state granted the Muslims full citizenship, the petition went on, opposition to conscription would be dropped. In 1911, in addition to demanding preferential treatment for \"the intellectual elements of the country\", the group called for an end to unequal taxation, broadening of the franchise, more schools, and protection of indigenous property. The Young Algerians added a significant voice to the reformist movement against French colonial policy that began in 1892 and continued until the outbreak of World War I. In part to reward Muslims who fought and died for France, Clemenceau appointed reform-minded Charles Jonnart as governor general. Reforms promulgated in 1919 and known as the Jonnart Law expanded the number of Muslims permitted to vote to about 425,000. The legislation also removed all voters from the jurisdiction of the humiliating \"Code de l'indigénat\".\n\nThe most popular Muslim leader in Algeria after the war was Khalid ibn Hashim, grandson of Abd al Qadir and a member of the Young Algerians, although he differed with some members of the group over acceptance of the Jonnart Law. Some Young Algerians were willing to work within the framework set out by the reforms, but Emir Khalid, as he was known, continued to press for the complete Young Algerian program. He was able to win electoral victories in Algiers and to enliven political discourse with his calls for reform and full assimilation, but by 1923 he tired of the struggle and left Algeria, eventually retiring to Damascus.\n\nSome of the Young Algerians in 1926 formed the Federation of Elected Natives (\"Fédération des Élus Indigènes\", FEI), as many of the former group's members had joined the circle of Muslims eligible to hold public office. The federation's objectives were the assimilation of the \"évolués\" into the French community, with full citizenship but without surrendering their personal status as Muslims, and the eventual integration of Algeria as a full province of France. Other objectives included equal pay for equal work for government employees, abolition of travel restrictions to and from France, abolition of the \"Code de l'indigénat\" (which had been reinstituted earlier), and electoral reform.\n\nThe first group to call for Algerian independence was the Star of North Africa (\"Étoile Nord-Africain\", known as Star). The group was originally a solidarity group formed in 1926 in Paris to coordinate political activity among North African workers in France and to defend \"the material, moral, and social interests of North African Muslims\". The leaders included members of the French Communist Party and its labor confederation, and in the early years of the struggle for independence the party provided material and moral support. Ahmed Messali Hadj, the Star's secretary general, enunciated the groups demands in 1927. In addition to independence from France, the Star called for freedom of press and association, a parliament chosen through universal suffrage, confiscation of large estates, and the institution of Arabic schools. The Star was first banned in 1929 and operated underground until 1933 when reconstituted with Messali Hadj President, Imache Amar General Secretary and Belkacem Radjef Treasurer. Its newspaper, El Ouma, reached a circulation of 43,500. Influenced by the Arab nationalist ideas of Lebanese Druze Shakib Arslan, Messali turned away from communist support to a more nationalist outlook, for which the French Communist Party attacked the Star. He returned to Algeria to organize urban workers and peasant farmers and in 1937 founded the Algerian People's Party (\"Parti du Peuple Algérien\", PPA) to mobilize the Algerian working class at home and in France to improve its situation through political action. For Messali Hadj, who ruled the PPA with an iron hand, these aims were inseparable from the struggle for an independent Algeria in which socialist and Islamic values would be fused.\n\nAlgeria's Islamic reform movement took inspiration from Egyptian reformers Muhammad Abduh and Muhammad Rashid Rida and stressed the Arab and Islamic roots of the country. Starting in the 1920s, the reform ulema, religious scholars, promoted a purification of Islam in Algeria and a return to the Qur'an and the \"sunna\", or tradition of the Prophet. The reformers favored the adoption of modern methods of inquiry and rejected the superstitions and folk practices of the countryside, actions that brought them into confrontation with the \"marabouts\". The reformers published their own periodicals and books, and established free modern Islamic schools that stressed Arabic language and culture as an alternative to the schools for Muslims operated for many years by the French. Under the dynamic leadership of Shaykh Abd al Hamid Ben Badis, the reformist ulama organized the Association of Algerian Muslim Ulema (\"Association des Uléma Musulmans Algériens\", AUMA) in 1931. Although their support was concentrated in the Constantine area, the AUMA struck a responsive chord among the Muslim masses, with whom it had closer ties than did the other nationalist organizations. As the Islamic reformers gained popularity and influence, the colonial authorities responded in 1933 by refusing them permission to preach in official mosques. This move and similar ones sparked several years of sporadic religious unrest.\n\nEuropean influences had some impact on indigenous Muslim political movements because Ferhat Abbas and Messali Hadj even with opposite views, essentially looked to France for their more secular ideological models. Ben Badis, however, believed that \"Islam is our religion, Arabic our language, Algeria our fatherland.\" Abbas went as far as summing up the philosophy of the liberal integrationists to oppose the claims of the nationalists by denying in 1936 that Algeria had a separate identity. However, Ben Badis responded that he, too, had looked to the past and found \"that this Algerian nation is not France, cannot be France, and does not want to be France … [but] has its culture, its traditions and its characteristics, good or bad, like every other nation of the earth.\" He was opposed to French colonial rule.\n\nThe \"colons\", for their part, rejected any movement toward reform, whether instigated by integrationist or nationalist organizations. Reaction in Paris to the nationalists was divided. In the 1930s, French liberals saw only the \"évolués\" as a possible channel for diffusing political power in Algeria, denigrating Messali Hadj for demagoguery and the AUMA for religious obscurantism. At all times, however, the French government was confronted by the monolithic intransigence of the leaders of the European community in Algeria in opposing any devolution of power to Muslims, even to basically pro-French \"évolués\". The \"colons\" also had powerful allies in the French National Assembly, the bureaucracy, the armed forces, and the business community, and were strengthened in their resistance by their almost total control of the Algerian administration and police.\n\nThe mounting social, political, and economic crises in Algeria for the first time induced older and newly emerged classes of indigenous society to engage from 1933 to 1936 in numerous acts of political protest. The government responded with more restrictive laws governing public order and security. In 1936, French socialist Léon Blum became premier in a Popular Front government and appointed Maurice Viollette his minister of state. The Ulemas and in June 1936 the Star of Messali, sensing a new attitude in Paris that would favor their agenda, cautiously joined forces with the FEI.\n\nRepresentatives of these groups and members of the Algerian Communist Party (\"Parti Communiste Algérien\", PCA) met in Algiers in 1936 at the first Algerian Muslim Congress. The congress drew up an extensive Charter of Demands, which called for the abolition of laws permitting imposition of the \"régime d'exception\", political integration of Algeria and France, maintenance of personal legal status by Muslims acquiring French citizenship, fusion of European and Muslim education systems in Algeria, freedom to use Arabic in education and the press, equal wages for equal work, land reform, establishment of a single electoral college, and universal suffrage.\n\nBlum and Viollette gave a warm reception to a congress delegation in Paris and indicated that many of their demands could be met. Meanwhile, Violettee drew up for the Blum government a proposal to extend French citizenship with full political equality to certain classes of the Muslim \"elite\", including university graduates, elected officials, army officers, and professionals. Messali Hadj saw in the Viollette Plan a new \"instrument of colonialism … to split the Algerian people by separating the elite from the masses\". The components of the congress—the ulema, the FEI, and communists—were heartened by the proposal and gave it varying measures of support. Mohamed Bendjelloul and Abbas, as spokesmen for the \"évolués\", who would have the most to gain from the measure, considered this plan a major step toward achieving their aims and redoubled their efforts through the liberal FEI to gain broad support for the policy of Algerian integration with France. Not unexpectedly, however, the colons had taken uncompromising exception to the Blum-Viollette proposal. Although the project would have granted immediate French citizenship and voting rights to only about 21,000 Muslims, with provision for adding a few thousand more each year, spokesmen for the \"colons\" raised the specter of the European electorate's being submerged by a Muslim majority. \"Colon\" administrators and their supporters threw procedural obstacles in the path of the legislation, and the government gave it only lukewarm support, resulting in its ultimate failure.\n\nWhile the Viollette Plan was still a live issue, however, Messali Hadj made a dramatic comeback to Algeria and had significant local success in attracting people to the Star. A mark of his success was the fact that in 1937 the government dissolved the Star. The same year Messali Hadj formed the PPA, which had a more moderate program, but he and other PPA leaders were arrested following a large demonstration in Algiers. Although Messali Hadj spent many years in jail, his party had the most widespread support of all opposition groups until it was banned in 1939.\n\nDisillusioned by the failure of the Viollette Plan to win acceptance in Paris, Abbas shifted from a position of favoring assimilation of the \"évolués\" and full integration with France to calling for the development of a Muslim Algeria in close association with France but retaining \"her own physiognomy, her language, her customs, her traditions\". His more immediate goal was greater political, social, and economic equality for Muslims with the \"colons\". By 1938 the cooperation among the parties that made up the congress began to break up.\n\nAlgerian Muslims rallied to the French side at the start of World War II as they had done in World War I. Nazi Germany's quick defeat of France, however, and the establishment of the collaborationist Vichy regime, to which the \"colons\" were generally sympathetic, not only increased the difficulties of the Muslims but also posed an ominous threat to the Jews in Algeria. The Algerian administration vigorously enforced the anti-Semitic laws imposed by Vichy, which stripped Algerian Jews of their French citizenship. Potential opposition leaders in both the European and the Muslim communities were arrested.\n\nAllied landings were made at Algiers and Oran by 70,000 British and United States troops on November 8, 1942, in coordination with landings in Morocco. As part of Operation Torch under the overall command of General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Algiers and Oran were secured two days later after a determined resistance by French defenders. On November 11, Admiral François Darlan, commander in chief of Vichy French forces, ordered a ceasefire in North Africa. Algeria provided a base for the subsequent Allied campaign in Tunisia.\n\nAfter the fall of the Vichy regime in Algeria, General Henri Giraud, Free French commander in chief in North Africa, slowly rescinded repressive Vichy laws despite opposition by \"colon\" extremists. He also called on the Muslim population to supply troops for the Allied war effort. Ferhat Abbas and twenty-four other Muslim leaders replied that Algerians were ready to fight with the Allies in freeing their homeland but demanded the right to call a conference of Muslim representatives to develop political, economic, and social institutions for the indigenous population \"within an essentially French framework\". Giraud, who succeeded in raising an army of 250,000 men to fight in the Italian campaign, refused to consider this proposal, explaining that \"politics\" must wait until the end of the war.\n\nIn March 1943, Abbas, who had abandoned assimilation as a viable alternative to self-determination, presented the French administration with the Manifesto of the Algerian People, signed by fifty-six Algerian nationalist and international leaders. Outlining the perceived past and present problems of colonial rule, the manifesto demanded specifically an Algerian constitution that would guarantee immediate and effective political participation and legal equality for Muslims. It called for agrarian reform, recognition of Arabic as an official language on equal terms with French, recognition of a full range of civil liberties, and the freeing of political prisoners of all parties.\n\nThe French governor general created a commission composed of prominent Muslims and Europeans to study the manifesto. This commission produced a supplementary reform program, which was forwarded to General Charles de Gaulle, leader of the Free French movement. De Gaulle and his newly appointed governor general in Algeria, General Georges Catroux, a recognized liberal, viewed the manifesto as evidence of a need to develop a mutually advantageous relationship between the European and Muslim communities. Catroux was reportedly shocked by the \"blinded spirit of social conservatism\" of the colons, but he did not regard the manifesto as a satisfactory basis for cooperation because he felt it would submerge the European minority in a Muslim state. Instead, the French administration in 1944 instituted a reform package, based on the 1936 Viollette Plan, that granted full French citizenship to certain categories of \"meritorious\" Algerian Muslims—military officers and decorated veterans, university graduates, government officials, and members of the Legion of Honor—who numbered about 60,000.\n\nA new factor influencing Muslim reaction to the reintroduction of the Viollette Plan—which by that date even many moderates had rejected as inadequate—was the shift in Abbas's position from support for integration to the demand for an autonomous state federated with France. Abbas gained the support of the AUMA and formed Friends of the Manifesto and Liberty (\"Amis du Manifeste et de la Liberté\", AML) to work for Algerian autonomie with equal rights for both Europeans and Muslims. Within a short time, the AML's newspaper, \"Égalité\", claimed 500,000 subscribers, indicating unprecedented interest in independence. By this time, over 350,000 Algerian Muslims (out of a total Algerian Muslim population of nine million) were working in France to support their relatives in Algeria, and many thousands more worked in towns. Messali and his PPA still rejected anything short of independence.\n\nSocial unrest grew in the winter of 1944–45, fueled in part by a poor wheat harvest, shortages of manufactured goods, and severe unemployment. On May Day, the clandestine PPA organized demonstrations in twenty-one towns across the country, with marchers demanding freedom for Messali Hadj and independence for Algeria. Violence erupted in some locations, including Algiers and Oran, leaving many wounded and three dead.\n\nNationalist leaders were resolving to mark the approaching liberation of Europe with demonstrations calling for their own liberation, and it was clear that a clash with the authorities was imminent. The tensions between the Muslim and \"colon\" communities exploded on May 8, 1945, V-E Day, in an outburst of such violence as to make their polarization complete, if not irreparable. Police had told local organizers they could march in Sétif only if they did not display nationalist flags or placards. They ignored the warnings, the march began, and gunfire resulted in which a number of police and demonstrators were killed. Marchers rampaged, leading to the killing of 103 Europeans. Word spread to the countryside, and villagers attacked colon settlements and government buildings.\n\nThe army and police responded by conducting a prolonged and systematic ratissage (literally, raking over) of suspected centers of dissidence. In addition, military airplanes and ships attacked Muslim population centers. According to official French figures, 1,500 Muslims died as a result of these countermeasures. Other estimates vary from 6,000 to as high as 45,000 killed.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Sétif violence, the AML was outlawed, and 5,460 Muslims, including Abbas and many PPA members, were arrested. Abbas deplored the uprising but charged that its repression had taken Algeria \"back to the days of the Crusades\". In April 1946, Abbas once again asserted the demands of the manifesto and founded the Democratic Union of the Algerian Manifesto (\"Union Démocratique du Manifeste Algérien\", UDMA Abbas called for a free, secular, and republican Algeria loosely federated with France. Upon his release from five-year house arrest, Messali Hadj returned to Algeria and formed the Movement for the Triumph of Democratic Liberties (\"Mouvement pour le Triomphe des Libertés Démocratiques\", MTLD), which quickly drew supporters from a broad cross-section of society. Committed to unequivocal independence, the MTLD firmly opposed Abbas's proposal for federation. However some ex-PPA members convinced that independence could only be obtained by military means, continued to operate clandestinely and maintain cells in the Aures Mountains and Kabylie while maintaining membership in the MTLD. In 1947, they formed the (\"Organisation Spéciale\", OS) operating loosely within the MTLD and led by Hocine Ait Ahmed. Their goal was to conduct terrorist operations since political protest through legal channels had been suppressed by the colonial authorities. Ait Ahmed was later succeeded as chief of the OS by Ahmed Ben Bella, one of the early Algerian nationalist leaders.\n\nThe National Assembly approved the government-proposed Organic Statute of Algeria in August 1947. This law called for the creation of an Algerian Assembly with one house representing Europeans and \"meritorious\" Muslims, and the other representing the remaining more than 8 million Muslims. The statute also replaced mixed communes with elected local councils, abolished military government in the Algerian Sahara, recognized Arabic as an official language with French, and proposed enfranchising Muslim women. Muslim and \"colon\" deputies alike abstained or voted against the statute but for diametrically opposed reasons: the Muslims because it fell short of their expectations and the \"colons\" because it went too far.\n\nThe sweeping victory of Messali Hadj's MTLD in the 1947 municipal elections frightened the \"colons\", whose political leaders, through fraud and intimidation, attempted to obtain a result more favorable to them in the following year's first Algerian Assembly voting. The term \"élection algérienne\" became a synonym for rigged election. The MTLD was allowed nine seats, Abbas's UDMA was given eight, and government-approved \"independents\" were awarded fifty-five seats. These results may have reassured some of the \"colons\" that the nationalists had been rejected by the Muslim community, but the elections suggested to many Muslims that a peaceful solution to Algeria's problems was not possible.\n\nAt the first session of the \"colon\"-controlled Algerian Assembly, an MTLD delegate was arrested at the door, prompting other Muslim representatives to walk out in protest. A request by Abbas to gain the floor was refused. Frustrated by these events, the nationalist parties, joined by the PCA, formed a common political front that undertook to have the results of the election voided. French socialists and moderates tried to initiate a formal inquiry into the reports of vote fraud but were prevented from doing so by the assembly's European delegates, who persuaded the governor general that an investigation would disturb the peace. New elections in 1951 were subject to the same sort of rigging that had characterized the 1948 voting.\n\nIn 1952 anti-French demonstrations precipitated by the OS led to Messali Hadj's arrest and deportation to France. Internal divisions and attacks by the authorities severely weakened the MTLD, draining its energies. Colon extremists took every opportunity to persuade the French government of the need for draconian measures against the emergent independence movement.\n\nBen Bella created a new underground action committee to replace the OS, which had been broken up by the French police in 1950. The new group, the Revolutionary Committee of Unity and Action (\"Comité Révolutionnaire d'Unité et d'Action\", CRUA), was based in Cairo, where Ben Bella had fled in 1952. Known as the \"chefs historiques\" (historical chiefs), the group's nine original leaders—Hocine Ait Ahmed, Mohamed Boudiaf, Belkacem Krim, Rabah Bitat, Larbi Ben M'Hidi, Mourad Didouch, Moustafa Ben Boulaid, Mohamed Khider, and Ben Bella—were considered the leaders of the Algerian War of Independence.\n\nBetween March and October 1954, the CRUA organized a military network in Algeria comprising six military regions (referred to at the time as \"wilayat\"; singular: \"wilaya\"). The leaders of these regions and their followers became known as the \"internals\". Ben Bella, Khider, and Ait Ahmed formed the External Delegation in Cairo. Encouraged by Egypt's President Gamal Abdul Nasser (r. 1954–71), their role was to gain foreign support for the rebellion and to acquire arms, supplies, and funds for the wilaya commanders. In October the CRUA renamed itself the National Liberation Front (\"Front de Libération Nationale\", FLN), which assumed responsibility for the political direction of the revolution. The National Liberation Army (\"Armée de Libération Nationale\", ALN), the FLN's military arm, was to conduct the War of Independence within Algeria.\n\nThe term Algerianism has had two meanings in history, one during the French colonial era, and another one after the independence of Algeria.\n\nDuring the French era, \"algérianisme\" was a literary genre with political overtones, born among French Algerian writers (see \"Algerian literature\") who hoped for a common Algerian future culture, uniting French settlers and native Algerians. The term \"algérianiste\" was used for the first time in a 1911 novel by Robert Randau, \"Les Algérianistes\". A \"Cercle algérianiste\" was created in France in 1973 by Pieds-Noirs, with several local chapters. It has for \"purpose to safeguard the cultural heritage born from the French presence in Algeria.\"\n\nIn Algerian contemporary politics, \"algerianist\" is a political label given to Algerian nationalists whose policies focus more on the unity of Algeria's nation-state beyond regional idiosyncrasies.\n\nThe modern Arabic language actually has two distinct words which can be translated into English as \"nationalism\": \"qawmiyya\" قومية, derived from the word \"qawm\" (meaning \"tribe, ethnic nationality\"), and \"wataniyya\" وطنية, derived from the word \"watan\" (meaning \"homeland, native country\"). The word \"qawmiyya\" has been used to refer to pan-Arab nationalism, while \"wataniyya\" has been used to refer to patriotism at a more local level (sometimes disparaged as \"regionalism\" by those who consider pan-Arabism the only true form of Arab nationalism). Algerianism is the Algerian patriotism, against pan-Arabist nationalism and different forms of regionalisms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5255469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5255469", "title": "America at the Crossroads", "text": "America at the Crossroads\n\nAmerica at the Crossroads: Democracy, Power, and the Neoconservative Legacy is a 2006 book by Francis Fukuyama.\n\nThis book briefly discusses the history of neoconservatism, with particular focus on its major tenets and political implications. Fukuyama outlines his rationale for supporting the Bush administration, as well as where he believes it has gone wrong. Fukuyama argues that the Iraq invasion was poorly planned and orchestrated, and that the George W. Bush administration underestimated the social construction that would be necessary to create a new democracy after the war.\n\nFukuyama highlights the controversies that surround neoconservatism, describing how it has evolved into something he can no longer support. He suggests that neoconservativism can be described as having four common principles through the end of the Cold War:\n\n\nAt the conclusion of the book, Fukuyama proposes a new order in international politics, stating the world needs a change in its actual institutions, advocating what he calls multi-multilateralism.\n\n\n page ix \"America at the Crossroads: Democracy, Power, and the Neoconservative Legacy\" (Yale University Press, 2006). \n\n"}
{"id": "29942936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29942936", "title": "Audience segmentation", "text": "Audience segmentation\n\nAudience segmentation is a process of dividing people into homogeneous subgroups based upon defined criterion such as product usage, demographics, psychographics, communication behaviors and media use. Audience segmentation is used in commercial marketing so advertisers can design and tailor products and services that satisfy the targeted groups. In social marketing, audiences are segmented into subgroups and assumed to have similar interests, needs and behavioral patterns and this assumption allows social marketers to design relevant health or social messages that influence the people to adopt recommended behaviors. Audience segmentation is widely accepted as a fundamental strategy in communication campaigns to influence health and social change. Audience segmentation makes campaign efforts more effective when messages are tailored to the distinct subgroups and more efficient when the target audience is selected based on their susceptibility and receptivity.\n\nAudience segmentation strategy is driven by the goal of developing criteria that can be used to form homogeneous clusters. The most common criteria used are demographics (age, level of education, income, ethnicity and gender) and geography (region, county, census tract). Since an audience segment that is derived exclusively from demographics such as Asian-American youths constitutes a large group that still has varied beliefs, values and behavior, demographics may not be sufficient as segmentation criteria. More sophisticated segmentation strategies use psychosocial, behavioral and psychographics (personality, values, attitudes, interests, level of readiness for change and lifestyles) as variables to categorize audience subgroups. Once the audience has been divided into segments based on selected criteria, campaigns are then designed and communication channels are selected to reach their intended audience effectively.\n\nGrunig's model of segmentation\nGrunig proposed a theory-based model of segmentation which comprises a series of inner and outer nests. The inner nests contain (a) individuals (individual communication behaviors and effects) and (b) publics (groups of people sharing common interests and issues). The outer nests consist of (c) communities, (d) psychographics, lifestyles and subcultures, and social relationships, (e) geodemographics, (f) demographics/social categories and (g) mass audience. The nests display increasing specificity instead of generality as they move towards the inner center; more specificity provides more audience details and insights that allow communication campaigns to create more precise messages for the target audience.\n\nAudience segmentation is employed in health interventions as a strategy to effectively utilize limited resources to reach the intended population. Equity and utility are often the prominent ethical issues in audience segmentation. Some campaigns target people who are most inclined to accept suggested messages while other campaigns aim at those with highest risk, despite the fact that they are hard to reach or least likely to adopt recommended behavior. Ethical dilemma occurs when health communicators have to identify audience segments and plan health interventions for these groups, depriving those not targeted in the process. \n\nPublic health campaigns often target large segments of population who have low to moderate risk as small changes can create visible impact on morbidity and mortality. Health campaigns aim to decrease alcoholic beverage consumption focus on moderate users who are larger in number and have higher likelihood to respond positively to the interventions. On the other hand, targeting small segments of the high risk population (e.g. heavy smokers) in quit smoking campaigns may be inefficient as they are less likely to stop the risky behavior.\n\nAudience segmentation can also cause conflicts within the community. The Nigeria STD/HIV Management Project, funded by the UK Department of International Development (DFID) in 1999 stirred intense conflicts after non-targeted community members felt resources had been unfairly allocated to the \"unworthy\" audience segment, people living with HIV/AIDS. As a result, HIV-infected victims were turned away from attending health centers, excluded and discriminated by the community and 25 people with HIV/AIDS in the project eventually died by the end of 2000.\n\nSlater and Flora's 1991 study on the risk of cardiovascular disease among central Californians utilized health behaviors to segment the audience into seven subgroups. The health behaviors criteria included (a) cognitive (health knowledge, attitudes, issue involvement, perceived response efficacy, perceived risk, and perceived self-efficacy); (b) social influence (community, reference group and family norms, expectations from family and friends, and social visibility of behavior); and (c) individual norms obtained from personal history. The study yielded two distinctive subgroups, despite their demographic similarities (White and middle socioeconomic status). The group with moderate level of good diets and physical activity and low tobacco consumption was more likely to seek health information and believed that cardiovascular disease was preventable by changing their health behavior. On the other hand, the group with poor diets, high level of alcohol and tobacco consumption and high perception of susceptibility to cardiovascular disease did not plan to mitigate those risks and refrained from seeking health information. The disparities between these two segments were crucial for health communicators to design and tailor different messages to influence their health behaviors.\n\nRimal, Brown, Mkandawire, Folda, Bose and Creel identified risk perceptions and efficacy beliefs as the main audience segmentation criteria for the HIV-prevention project in Malawi. Four subgroups created were responsive (high risk, high efficacy), avoidance (high risk, low efficacy), proactive (low risk, high efficacy) and indifference (low risk, low efficacy). The study found different levels of HIV knowledge, HIV testing and condom use among the four segments. Responsive and proactive groups were most responsive to preventive behaviors whereas avoidance and indifference groups were less inclined to practice preventive behaviors. Audience segmentation could be utilized in Malawi to target different segments with tailored messages in risk perceptions and efficacy beliefs in order to influence them to adopt recommended HIV prevention behaviors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1220193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1220193", "title": "Bundschuh movement", "text": "Bundschuh movement\n\nThe Bundschuh movement (German: \"Bundschuh-Bewegung\") refers to a series of localized peasant rebellions in southwestern Germany from 1493 to 1517. They were one of the causes of the German Peasants' War (1524–1526). The Bundschuh movement was not a movement in the proper sense, but a number of loosely linked local conspiracies and planned uprisings. It was so called because of the peasant shoe (\"Bundschuh\") the peasants displayed on their flag. Under this flag, peasants and city dwellers had defeated the troops of the French count of Armagnac along the upper Rhine in 1439, 1443 and 1444.\n\nIndividual uprisings – seeking relief from oppressive taxes, arbitrary justice systems, high debts, costly ecclesiastic privileges, serfdom, prohibitions on hunting and fishing, and the like – occurred in 1476 in Niklashausen (Tauber valley), 1493 in Schlettstadt (now Sélestat)/Alsace (for the first time under the Bundschuh banner), 1502 in Bruchsal and Untergrombach, 1513 in Lehen (Breisgau), and 1517 along the upper Rhine. Each of these was defeated very quickly, and the leaders, such as Joß Fritz, were generally executed.\n\nAs a sign displayed on their flag the peasants chose the \"Bundschuh\" (= tied shoe), a shoe typical for peasants made of leather. It was to symbolise the joint rising and advance of the peasants against their lords. It also contrasted the boots born by knights with their spurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "6003931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6003931", "title": "Care2", "text": "Care2\n\nCare2 is a social networking website that was founded by Randy Paynter in 1998. The goal of the site is to connect activists from around the world with other individuals, organizations and responsible businesses making an impact.\n\nCare2 members create an online identity by filling out a profile with personal information, as in most social networking sites, but Care2 also asks for more information about its members' personal lives and involvement in activism. The social interactions on Care2 revolve around groups that connect people who care about similar political and environmental issues. Members also often participate in internet petitions and news articles posted by others.\n\nCare2 has been used throughout the years to combat, through petitions, political, environmental and civil rights issues. Recently, Care2 was used by Broadway theatre playwrights and actors to petition Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act. Care2 is regularly used to promote Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign against Israel.\n\nOn December 28, 2011, hackers attacked, breached and accessed unencrypted password data on Care2 servers.\n\n"}
{"id": "328788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328788", "title": "Christina Gyllenstierna", "text": "Christina Gyllenstierna\n\nChristina Nilsdotter Gyllenstierna of Fogelvik (Swedish: \"Kristina\" or \"Kerstin\": 1494 – January 1559, Hörningsholm Castle) was a Swedish noble and a heroine. She was married to the Swedish regent Sten Sture the Younger, and famously led the Swedish resistance against Christian II of Denmark after the death of her spouse. In her own lifetime she was simply referred to as \"Fru Kristina\" ('Lady Christina'), but she has become known in history as \"Kristina Gyllenstierna\" because of the house of nobility to which she belonged.\n\nChristina Gyllenstierna was born to \"riksråd\" Nils Eriksson (Gyllenstierna), Lord of Tullgarn (also written with the Danish spelling Niels Eriksen, and surnamed \"Gyllenstjerna\" by later historians) and Sigrid Eskilsdotter (Banér) of Venngarn, Heir of Lindholm. She was a great-granddaughter of King Charles VIII of Sweden through her paternal grandmother princess Christina Karlsdotter Bonde (1432-1493/1500), heir of Fogelvik, after whom she was named. Her grandfather Erik Eriksen of Demstrup (\"Gyldenstjerne\") originated from Denmark, but during the power struggle between Denmark and Sweden, two formally united parts of the Kalmar Union, he allied with the Swedish claimant, Charles VIII, who made him his son-in-law and High Steward of Charles' court. By the second marriage of her mother, Christina became the half-sister of Cecilia Månsdotter of Eka and thereby the maternal aunt of the future king Gustav I.\n\nChristina was first engaged to Nils Gädda (d. 1508), governor of Kalmar and Lycka, but the marriage never took place due to his death. On 16 November 1511 in Stockholm, she married the son of the Swedish regent Svante and the nephew of her former betrothed, Sten Sture the Younger. She had five children during her marriage: Nils (1516-1528), Iliana (1514), Magdalena (1516-1521), Svante Stensson Sture (1517-1567) and Anna (1518), and Gustav (1520-1520).\n\nIn 1512, Sten Sture succeeded his father as elected regent of Sweden upon his death. During this period, Denmark, Norway and Sweden were formally part of the Kalmar Union through a personal union under the king of Denmark, but in reality, Sweden had been a de facto independent kingdom under \"Regents\" (Sw. \"riksföreståndare\") native high nobles elected to rule the country.\n\nSten Sture's election as regent was not without opposition. At the death of his father, Sten was 18 years old, and High Councillor Eric Trolle, who supported the union with Denmark, was initially chosen as regent by the council. However, Sten utilized the castles and troops granted to him by his late father and took power in a coup: after having promised to continue negotiations with Denmark, the High Council accepted him as regent instead of Trolle. \nIn reality, lord Sten's purpose was to keep Sweden independent of Denmark. He took the Sture name, heritage from his great-grandmother, because it symbolized independence of Sweden as a reminder of Sten Sture the Elder, his father's third cousin.\n\nRegent Sten had already in 1504 been proposed as a candidate in the election of a new king of Sweden as a replacement for John, King of Denmark, who had been elected king of Sweden in 1497 but who was ousted from there in 1502. Upon the death of John in 1513, it was again proposed to elect regent Sten as king of Sweden rather than the son of John, Christian II of Denmark, and Sten was making preparations to arrange an election, including seeking support for it from the pope.\n\nIt is considered likely that Christina participated in state affairs and acted as the political adviser to her spouse, given her later role. In reality, Sten and Christina already functioned as king and queen of Sweden: by 1519, Peder Månsson, Bishop of Västerås, expressed his surprise in a letter from Rome to Abbess Anna Germundsdotter of Vadstena Abbey that Sten had not yet been crowned, and in the contemporary Stockholm chronicle, Christina is referred to as \"Our Gracious Princess.\"\nBy their ambitions, they became the natural enemies of king Christian II of Denmark, whose ambition it was to be elected king of Sweden and thereby again make Sweden a part of the Kalmar union in practice and not only in name.\n\nSten became involved in a conflict with archbishop Gustav Trolle, son of his previous rival Eric Trolle. The archbishop claimed more autonomy for the church. In 1516, Sten besieged Staket, the fortress of archbishop Trolle, and when Staket was taken the following year, Sten had the fortress dismantled, Trolle taken captive, imprisoned and deposed as archbishop. The deposition of an archbishop resulted in the excommunication of Sten Sture by the pope, who gave Christian II support in his designs against Sten Sture. On the New Year of 1520, Christian II invaded Sweden.\n\nOn 19 January 1520, Regent Sten was mortally wounded at the battle of Bogesund.\n\nLady Christina emerged as the leader of the Sture party and defender of her son's rights, took command of the city and Castle of Stockholm in the name of her underage sons, secured support from the majority of the peasantry and burgher classes, and received the loyalty from the commanders of the most important fortresses of the realm: Västerås Castle, Nyköping Castle, Kalmar Castle as well as the province of Finland. However, she did not manage to secure enough support from the nobility: \"Some stated their will to fight for the children of Lord Sten, while one party gave a stern now to Lady Christina the widow of Lord Sten, with the city of Stockholm and those of her followers, and often wrote to them that they should unite and resist the enemy, although such letters were not considered.\" On 6 March 1520, several members of the Privy Council of Sweden submitted to Christian II, electing him king of Sweden in Uppsala. \nThe peasantry of central Sweden roused by her patriotism, flew to arms and defeated the Danish invaders at Balundsås on March 19, and were only with the utmost difficulty finally defeated at the bloody battle of Uppsala, on 6 April.\n\nIn late May, the Danish fleet arrived and the city of Stockholm was besieged by land and sea by the Danes under Christian II. Shortly before, Christina managed to send her eldest son, the seven year old Nils Stensson Sture to safety in Danzig in Poland with an envoy headed by the chancellor of the Sture family, Peder Jakobsson (Sunnanväder), to issue negotiations with Sigismund I the Old and the Hanseatic League for support against Denmark. In her embassy to Danzig, she stated that she governed the realm until her sons had reached the age of majority and could take over the regency. She had the support from the burghers of Stockholm, who referred to her as their Princess. \nLady Christina took command and held out stoutly at Stockholm, while the second stronghold of Sweden, Kalmar, was commanded and defended and by the widow of its governor, Anna Eriksdotter (Bielke), in the same fashion.\n\nOn 7 September 1520, after four months of siege, Christina was persuaded to capitulate in exchange for a letter of amnesty. In the letter of amnesty issued by Christian II, an amnesty of the most explicit and absolute character was extracted for Christina herself, her dead spouse and all their followers for all acts of resistance against Christian II himself, his father king John and his grandfather Christian II before him, regardless of all acts against bishop Trolle. Personally, Christina were granted Häme Castle and county, Kuhmo state in Finland, Hörningsholm Castle in Södermanland and Eksjö estate in Småland.\n\nOn November 1, Christian II was proclaimed king Christian I of Sweden, followed by his coronation in Storkyrkan by the reinstated arch bishop Gustav Trolle on 4 September. The coronation was followed by three days of festivities attended by the Swedish nobility, during which he danced with Christina on a ball.\n\nOn 7 November, king Christian summoned the Swedish nobility to a meeting in the throne hall at Stockholm Castle. When the meeting was opened, the doors were closed and guarded, and archbishop Trolle accused her, her mother, her late spouse and the followers of Sture for his deposition and demanded compensation and punishment.\nLady Christina stepped forward and pointed out the fact that the deposition of bishop Trolle had been a decision taken by a united parliament: everyone had signed the bill of deposition, placing the responsibility on the entire realm and making it impossible to accuse and punish a particular individual for the act. Further more, the amnesty granted by the king as a term for her surrender made it impossible for the king to punish them for their actions against him and his followers.\nShe stated that there was proof as the protocol from the meeting of 1517, when the removal of Trolle was decided upon, was there: the document with signatures was then presented to the king. Because of the amnesty, the Swedes now considered the matter solved. However, Christian had found a loophole, which the Swedes had overlooked. Previously advised by Didrik Slagheck and Jens Andersen Beldenak not to keep his word to heretics, he stated that the deposition of an archbishop was a crime against the church, and that a monarch had no jurisdiction to pardon anyone for heresy. In effect, this meant that the king could in fact execute the participators in the rebellion against him despite the amnesty, by having them judged by the church for heresy rather than accused of treason by a secular court. This resulted in the infamous Stockholm Bloodbath upon the followers of Sten Sture.\n\nChristina's brothers Erik Nilsson, Lord of Tullgarn and Eskil Nilsson, her maternal uncle and her brother-in-law was executed by beheading, as were many other Swedish Sture party followers. Her husband's remains were exhumed and burned publicly at the stake as a heretic, as was those of her youngest son Gustav. Her mother Sigrid became the only woman sentenced to be executed: she was sentenced to be drowned, but avoided execution by ceding her property to the king. Christina herself was not executed. King Christian called upon her and asked her to choose which method of execution she preferred and asked her to choose between being burned at the stake or being buried alive. Confronted with this choice, she was unable to reply and fainted with horror. Christian was advised to spare her life and none of these alternatives were carried out. To save her life, she ceded a large part of her property to Christian. \nThe king stated that she \"is now dead to the world, for she is judged as the others for heresy\".\n\nHowever, Danish rule in Sweden was threatened by her nephew Gustav Vasa, who soon became the leader of the Swedish War of Liberation. In the spring of 1521, Christina and her half-sister Cecilia (Gustav's mother) was forced to write to Gustav Vasa in an attempt to persuade him to surrender to Denmark.\n\nChristina was held captive at Stockholm Castle until August 1521, after which her children, mother and finally herself was transferred to the infamous \"Blåtårn\" (\"Blue Tower\") of Copenhagen Castle along with a large number of other women and children related to the executed of the Stockholm Bloodbath, among them her half sister Cecilia and nieces Emerentia and Margareta. Christina herself and her daughters joined them there in September.\n\nIn the chronicle of Per Brahe the Elder, the captivity of the Swedish noblewomen in Denmark were described: \"They were much deprived of food and drink [...]. Hardly given enough each day to keep their lives but they worked to be fed\": king Gustav I of Sweden used their treatment in captivity in his propaganda against Christian II and claimed that the Danish monarch starved the women and children who only survived by the mercy showed them by the queen of Denmark, Isabella of Austria. Whatever the truth of this, it is confirmed that many of the imprisoned women and children died, among them Christina's daughter Magdalena, half sister Cecilia and niece Emerentia, though the cause of death are given as the plague, at that point used to classify a number of different illnesses. However, one source claims that Christina, in contrast to the other hostages, were not kept prisoner at Blue Tower but in Kalundborg, where she is confirmed to have been at least when the Swedish king later negotiated for her release.\n\nAfter about two years imprisonment, the political situation changed. In January 1523 Christian II was deposed by Frederick I of Denmark and Christina's nephew Gustav I of Sweden took Stockholm from the Danes as the leader of the Swedish War of Liberation and was elected king of an independent kingdom of Sweden. In the summer of 1523, king Gustav applied for her release to Frederick I through the Hanseatic League. At that point, Christina reconciled with bishop Gustav Trolle in Roskilde.\n\nIn January 1524 Frederick I of Denmark agreed to release the Swedish noblewomen imprisoned at Blue Tower. Christina Gyllenstierna was released and is confirmed to have been in Sweden 28 January the same year: she returned in the company of her mother and her eldest son Nils, while her younger son Svante remained in Denmark to finish his education. On a meeting in Linköping, she reconciled with her former political advisory, bishop Hans Brask.\n\nIn summer 1524, King Gustav was informed by the mayor of Rostock and the Danish council that Christina planned to marry Søren Norby, Grand Admiral of Denmark and a follower of the deposed Danish king Christian II, in exchange for Norby using his fleet and military knowledge to help her conquer the Swedish throne for her son. These plans were regarded as a threat both by the new Danish monarch, Frederick I, as well as by king Gustav, and Gustav suspected that she had been led to believe that \"she and her children would com to govern the realm\" by the help of such a marriage, and that \"Lady Christina and her party and followers who attempts to reward, with such evil plots and treason, all the kindness and good acts that we have [...] shown them.\"\n\nIn March, the first of the Dalecarlian rebellions took place organized by Knut Mickelsson and Christina's former chancellor Peder Jakobsson (Sunnanväder), who glorified the reign of the Sture family in contrast to that of Gustav Vasa. The rebels reportedly contacted Søren Norby, who was the same month promised by Christian II to be his governor in Sweden should he deposed king Gustav. In April, Norby was rumored to be on his way to Blekinge with a fleet, after which he launched attacks with his fleet from his base in Gotland. King Gustav sent Berend von Melen, married to his relative Margareta and governor of Kalmar Castle, to fight Norby. However, von Melen broke his loyalty to the king and allied with Søren Norby, a treason for which the king blamed his relative Margareta von Melen. Shortly after, Christina sent her son Nils to von Melen at Kalmar Castle, and it was evidently believed, that von Melen would help Nils to unite with Norby. It was speculated abroad, that Søren Norby and Berend von Melen would conquer Sweden together as they were \"through their wives highly connected\" in Sweden. \nAt this point, the von Melen couple left for Germany, leaving Nils and a garrison in Kalmar, which was sieged by the troops of Gustav I, while Christina herself seems to have been placed in arrest. In May, the Dalecarlian rebels reproached King Gustav for having imprisoned Christina and having driven her son Nils out of the country and demanded the freedom of Christina.\nOn 20 July 1525, however, the rebellion was crushed when Nils, the son of Christina, was taken prisoner by king Gustav after his victory at the Siege of Kalmar. \nWhen Norby negotiated to submit his loyalty to the new king of Denmark, Frederick I, one of his demands were to secure help from Frederick I to secure Christina's release from the prison of Gustav.\n\nIn November 1525, Christina and king Gustav I was reconciled in a meeting in Vadstena, were Christina stated that she had never contemplated to marry Søren Norby and that the engagement gifts she sent him was merely gifts of gratitude because he had assisted her and her children from the captivity in Denmark. In a letter from Vadstena on 29 December, she denied ever having contemplated a marriage with Søren Norby. The same month, king Gustav I stated that Christina was to marry his cousin \"riksråd\" Johan Turesson Tre Rosor, Lord of Falun, riksråd and governor of Nyköping \n(149?-1556): they were officially engaged at Christmans 1526 and married at Lindholmen Castle, Västergötland, in the summer of 1527. Her second marriage was likely arranged by the king to neutralize Christina politically, as which she would no longer have the prestige of being \"The widow of Sten Sture\" and leader of the Sture party, but the wife of a loyal relative of the king. From her second marriage, she had a son, Gustaf Johansson. Eric XIV made Svante Count of Vestervik and Stegeholm, and at the same time made Gustaf Count of Enköping (later changed to county of Bogesund).\n\nIn the official chronicle of the king, the elder son of Christina, Nils, is claimed to have died the year of his mother's remarriage. In 1527, however, the second of the Dalecarlian Rebellions broke out in opposition to Gustav's introduction of the Protestant Reformation to Sweden, and the leader of the rebellion was the so-called \"Daljunkern\" ('The youngster from Dalarna'), who claimed to be Nils Sture, the 15-year-old elder son of Christina. Modern research indicate that \"Daljunkern\" was indeed Nils, the son of Christina. Gustav defeated the rebels, and Daljunkern fled to Norway and then Germany, where he was arrested in Rostock. In August 1528, king Gustav had Christina issue an official statement that Daljunkern was not her son.\nIn order to have the Daljunkern executed, Gustav I had Christina write a statement in which she stated that of all the sons she had with regent Sten, the only son alive was Svante. Preserved documents show that the first version of Christina's letter was written carefully and only asked the authorities in Rostock to send the person claiming to be Nils to Sweden for questioning: in the final version of the letter, which was eventually sent, however, she called him a thief and impostor and demanded that he be executed on the spot. It is considered likely that she wrote the letter under pressure.\n\nThe relationship between Christina and king Gustav was described as somewhat tense. After the death of her mother in 1527, Christina and Gustav came to be involved in a conflict over her inheritance after her mother, which was not solved until 1550. \nDuring the Westrogothian rebellion in 1529, Christina was given the task by the king to negotiate with her rebellious brother-in-law Jöran Turesson (Tre Rosor).\nDuring the Dacke War, the king ordered her that she should prevent any rebels who reached Nyköping to acquire supplies and imprison them.\n\nHer second son Svante was, according to tradition, engaged to her relative Margaret Leijonhufvud, who however was arranged to marry the king in 1536. After the marriage of Margaret to the king Christina, as the other relatives of the new queen, were granted some privileges such as the right to some of the money from the fines paid to the crown. It is noted that she evidently attended court during the tenure of Margaret as queen, as she, alongside Margaret's mother Ebba Eriksdotter Vasa, is often listed to have occupied the best rooms next to the queen, but whether she was ever given a court office is unknown. It is confirmed that she was briefly made responsible for the court of the royal children between the death of queen Margaret in 1551 and the king's marriage to queen Katarina Stenbock in 1552. Christina died in January 1559 at Hörningsholm Castle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29195439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29195439", "title": "Control system security", "text": "Control system security\n\nControl system security is the prevention of intentional or unintentional interference with the proper operation of industrial automation and control systems. These control systems manage essential services including electricity, petroleum production, water, transportation, manufacturing, and communications. They rely on computers, networks, operating systems, applications, and programmable controllers, each of which could contain security vulnerabilities. The 2010 discovery of the Stuxnet worm demonstrated the vulnerability of these systems to cyber incidents. The United States and other governments have passed cyber-security regulations requiring enhanced protection for control systems operating critical infrastructure.\n\nControl system security is known by several other names such as \"SCADA security\", \"PCN security\", \"industrial network security\", and \"control system cyber security\".\n\nInsecurity of, or vulnerabilities inherent in industrial automation and control systems (IACS) can lead to severe consequences in categories such as safety, loss of life, personal injury, environmental impact, lost production, equipment damage, information theft, and company image.\nGuidance to assess, evaluate and mitigate these potential risks is provided through the application of many Governmental, regulatory, industry documents and Global Standards, addressed below.\n\nIndustrial automation and control systems have become far more vulnerable to security incidents due to the following trends that have occurred over the last 10 to 15 years. \n\nThe cyber threats and attack strategies on automation systems are changing rapidly. Fortunately, regulation of control system security is rare as regulation is a slow moving process. The United States, for example, only does so for the nuclear power and the chemical industries.\n\nThe U.S. Government Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) originally instituted a control systems security program (CSSP) now the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) Industrial Control Systems, which has made available a large set of free National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards documents regarding control system security.\n\nISA/IEC-62443 is a series of standards, technical reports, and related information that define procedures for implementing electronically secure Industrial Automation and Control Systems (IACS). This guidance applies to end-users (i.e. asset owner), system integrators, security practitioners, and control systems manufacturers responsible for manufacturing, designing, implementing, or managing industrial automation and control systems.\n\nThese documents were originally referred to as ANSI/ISA-99 or ISA99 standards, as they were created by the International Society for Automation (ISA) 99 committee, accredited by and publicly released as American National Standards Institute (ANSI) documents. In 2010, they were renumbered to be the ANSI/ISA-62443 series. This change was intended to align the ISA and ANSI document numbering with the corresponding International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards.\n\nAll ISA work products are now numbered using the convention “ISA-62443-x-y” and previous ISA99 nomenclature is maintained for continuity purposes only. \n\nISA99 remains the name of the Industrial Automation and Control System Security Committee of the ISA. Since 2002, the committee has been developing a multi-part series of standards and technical reports on the subject of IACS security. These work products are then submitted to the ISA approval and then publishing under ANSI. They are also submitted to IEC for consideration as standards and specifications in the IEC 62443 series following the IEC standards development process.\n\n\nThe IEC-62443 cybersecurity standards are the result of the IEC standards creation process where ANSI/ISA-62443 proposals are submitted to country committees where review is done and comments regarding changes are submitted. The comments are reviewed by various IEC 62443 committees where comments are discussed and changes are made as agreed upon. Many members of the IEC committees are the same persons from the ISA S99 committees. To date, the fundamental concepts from the original ANSI/ISA 62443 documents have been utilized. \nThese standards are being used by practitioners in several industries to design and evaluate automation systems for cybersecurity resilience. Several of the standards are being used in personnel, engineering process, product, and system cybersecurity certification programs (also called conformity assessment programs). \n\nCertifications are awarded by accredited Certification Bodies (CB) who operate following ISO/IEC 17065 and ISO/IEC 17025. Certification Bodies are accredited to perform the auditing, assessment, and testing work by an Accreditation Body (AB). There is often one national AB in each country. These ABs operate per the requirements of ISO/IEC 17011, a standard that contains requirements for the competence, consistency, and impartiality of accreditation bodies when accrediting conformity assessment bodies. ABs are typically members of the International Accreditation Forum (IAF) for work in management systems, products, services, and personnel accreditation or the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) for laboratory accreditation. A Multilateral Recognition Arrangement (MLA) between ABs will ensure global recognition of accredited CBs.\n\nISCI created the first conformity assessment scheme (commonly known as a certification scheme) for the ISA S99 IACS cybersecurity standards. This program certifies Commercial Off-the-shelf (COTS) IACS products and systems, addressing securing the IACS supply chain. \nexida from the United States was the first organization accredited for the ISCI scheme by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) followed by the Control Systems Security Center – Certification Laboratory (CSSC-CL) accredited by the Japan Accreditation Board (JAB) and TÜV Rheinland accredited by Deutsche Akkreditierungsstelle (DAkkS). All of these AB organizations are members of the IAF.\n\nTwo COTS product certifications are available under the ISASecure® brand: ISASecure-EDSA (Embedded Device Security Assurance) certifying IACS products to the 62443-4-1 / 62443-4-2 IACS cybersecurity standards and ISASecure-SSA (System Security Assurance), certifying IACS systems to the same standards.\n\nA third certification, SDLA (Secure Development Lifecycle Assurance) is available from ISCI which certifies IACS development organizations to the 62443-4-1 cybersecurity standard, providing assurances that a supplier organization has institutionalized cybersecurity into their product development practices.\n\nThe ISASecure 62443 conformity assessment scheme is an ISO 17065 program whose labs (certification bodies or CB) are independently accredited by ANSI/ANAB, JAB and other global ISO 17011 accreditation bodies (AB). The certification labs must also meet ISO 17025 lab accreditation requirements to ensure consistent application of certification requirements and recognized tools.\n\nThrough Mutual Recognition Arrangements (MRA) with IAF, ILAC and others, the accreditation of the ISASecure labs by the ISA 17011 accreditation bodies ensures that certificates issued by any of the ISASecure labs are globally recognized.\n\nThe ISASecure scheme includes a process for recognizing test tools to ensure the tools meet functional requirements necessary and sufficient to execute all required product tests and that test results will be consistent among the recognized tools.\n\nISCI development processes include maintenance policies to ensure that the ISASecure certifications remain in alignment with the IEC 62443 standards as they evolve. While the IEC 62443 standards are designed to horizontally address technical cybersecurity requirements of a cross-section of industries, the ISASecure scheme’s certification requirements working groups include subject matter experts from the chemical and oil and gas industries and are reflective of their cybersecurity needs.\n\nIEC 62443 certification schemes have also been established by several global Certification Bodies. Each has defined their own scheme based upon the referenced standards and procedures. Programs are being offered globally by several recognized CBs including exida, TÜV Rheinland, TÜV Sud, TÜV Nord, and SGS-TÜV Saar. \n\n"}
{"id": "9397812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9397812", "title": "Council on Education for Public Health", "text": "Council on Education for Public Health\n\nThe Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH) is an independent agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education to accredit schools of public health and public health programs offered in settings other than schools of public health. These schools and programs prepare students for entry into careers in public health. The primary professional degree is the Master of Public Health (M.P.H.) but other master's and doctoral degrees are offered as well such as the Doctor of Public Health (DrPH).\n\nThe Council is a private, nonprofit corporation directed by a 10-member board. As an independent body, the board is solely responsible for adopting criteria by which schools and programs are evaluated, for establishing policies and procedures, for making accreditation decisions and for managing the business of the corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "408725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408725", "title": "Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats", "text": "Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats\n\nThe Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats ( or HNS – LD) is a liberal political party in Croatia.\n\nAs of April 2015 HNS forms a parliamentary club with 5 members in the Croatian Parliament, making them the fourth largest party in Croatia in terms of parliament representation. HNS is an observing member of the Liberal International and a full member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party. Since 17 December 2017 the party's leader is Ivan Vrdoljak.\n\nThe People's Party in Croatia was originally formed in 1841, during the period of Croatian romantic nationalism. The Croatian People's Party describes the events of the Illyrian movement since 1835 as its history.. After 1861 the People's Party was known as the People's Liberal Party, its main splinter party was the Independent People's Party (1880–1903) which became more pro-autonomist, while the \"old\" People's Party developed into \"party of the Settlement\" having collaborated with the pro-Hungarian Unionist Party (known as the People's Constitutional Party). The Progressive Party (1904–1906) and the Croatian People's Progressive Party (1906–1910) were also liberal parties in the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia as an autonomous part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nIn 1860 the national liberals formed in the Dalmatia (Austrian part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire) the National party known also as the People's Party in Dalmatia. The party developed into a conservative party around 1889 (the National Croatian Party).\n\nIn the first Yugoslavia (1918–1941), main liberal party was the Independent Democratic Party composed by the Serbs from former Austro-Hungarian parts of the new state and Slovene centralist liberals. \n\nDuring Communism in the second Yugoslavia (the Socialist Republic of Croatia, SRH), the liberal leaders of the League of Communists of Croatia were Savka Dabčević-Kučar and Miko Tripalo, who participated in the Croatian Spring of 1971.\n\nThe modern Croatian People's Party was formed in late 1990 by members of the Coalition of People's Accord () which had participated on the first multi-party election of 1990, led by Savka Dabčević-Kučar, Miko Tripalo, Dragutin Haramija and others.\n\nThe HNS remained a small opposition party. In the 1992 election they won 6.7% of the vote and attained 6 seats in the Croatian Parliament. In 1994, construction entrepreneur Radimir Čačić became party chairman. In the 1995 election they won 2 seats as part of an election alliance.\n\nIn the January 2000 election they formed a four-party coalition with HSS, LS and IDS, which together won 25 seats in the Parliament, two of whom were HNS representatives. As a result, the party participated in the 2000–2003 government of Ivica Račan through the minister of public works, construction and reconstruction Radimir Čačić. A few weeks later, the coalition's candidate and HNS member Stjepan Mesić was elected President of the Republic.\n\nAlso in 2000, HNS elected a new party chair, Zagreb University professor of sociology of politics Vesna Pusić.\n\nIn the November 2003 elections, their alliance with the Alliance of Primorje-Gorski Kotar and the Slavonia-Baranja Croatian Party won 8% of the vote and 11 out of 151 seats, 10 of them HNS representatives. However, despite significantly improved results, the party moved to the opposition.\n\nA second element of today's People's Party, the Party of Liberal Democrats or Libra, originated in time of the Račan government when in 2002 Dražen Budiša, the leader of the Croatian Social Liberal Party (HSLS), pulled out of the coalition. Ten members of parliament from Budiša's party, led by Jozo Radoš, refused to bring down the government and instead split from the HSLS, forming Libra, the Party of Liberal Democrats. That party won 3 seats in the 2003 election. On 6 February 2005, most of the 1,250 representatives of HNS on its seventh convention voted to merge with Libra as the \"Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats\". The total number of parliamentary seats for the party increased to 13.\n\nIn the November 2007 elections the party ran on its own and got around 7% of the vote and 7 seats in the Croatian Sabor. It remained in the opposition. In April 2008 Radimir Čačić was elected as party chair after defeating Dragutin Lesar (MP). Lesar left the party, first acting as an independent MP, but then founded a splinter party, Croatian Laburists in March 2010. Zlatko Horvat MP left the party as well.\n\nIn 2011 elections, HNS participated in centre-left \"Kukuriku coalition\" spearheaded by SDP. After the coalition won, HNS entered the cabinet and held posts of foreign relations, commerce, culture etc. Čačić was reelected as a party chairman again in March 2012. After he was sentenced to a prison term due to a traffic accident in which two people died, he resigned from the cabinet and was forced to leave the party. Vesna Pusić was elected as party president in 2013. On 21 September 2014 about 200 members from HNS Zagreb and Varaždin branches each left the party in order to form liberal and centrist People's Party - Reformists under Radimir Čačić's leadership. \n\nHNS held the same alliance in the parliamentary elections of 2015 and 2016 as a part of SDP-led \"People's coalition\", switching to opposition. After the party chairman Ivan Vrdoljak and the party's general board decided to enter the government with centre-right Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) and support Andrej Plenkovic's cabinet in the parliament (overriding the opposition of party's Presidency), in June 2017 four MPs and the only MEP (Jozo Radoš) left the party to create left of the centre Civic Liberal Alliance. This splinter also resulted in numerous party members and branch leaders leaving the party, either to join Civic Liberal Alliance or other parties. In October 2018, MP Marija Puh left the party fraction in the parliament to join Milan Bandic's party, reducing the fraction further down to just 4 MPs.\n\nThe following is a summary of the party's results in legislative elections for the Croatian parliament. The \"Total votes\" and \"Percentage\" columns include sums of votes won by pre-election coalitions HNS had been part of. After preferential votes were added to the electoral system, the votes column also includes the statistic of the total number of such votes received by candidates of HNS on coalition lists. The \"Total seats\" column includes sums of seats won by HNS in election constituencies plus representatives of ethnic minorities affiliated with HNS.\n\nThe following is a list of presidential candidates who were endorsed by HNS in elections for President of Croatia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2032789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2032789", "title": "Democratic Fatherland Party", "text": "Democratic Fatherland Party\n\nThe Democratic Fatherland Party () was a political party in Serbia.\n\nThe party was led by Radoslav Avlijaš from 19 August 2002. In the 2003 parliamentary election it was part of the Independent Serbia coalition and won no seats. \n\nIn the invalidated 2003 presidential election Avlijaš came in last with 0.83% of the vote. His key goals were achieving inner and international stability, reducing poverty, expanding the middle class, investing in scientific research and the accession of Serbia to the EU.\n\nThe party officially ceased to exist on 14 April 2010.\n"}
{"id": "207840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207840", "title": "Donella Meadows", "text": "Donella Meadows\n\nDonella H. \"Dana\" Meadows (March 13, 1941 – February 20, 2001) was a pioneering American environmental scientist, teacher, and writer. She is best known as lead author of the influential book \"The Limits to Growth\" and \"Thinking in Systems: a Primer\".\n\nBorn in Elgin, Illinois, Meadows was educated in science, receiving a B.A. in chemistry from Carleton College in 1963 and a Ph.D. in biophysics from Harvard in 1968. After a yearlong trip from England to Sri Lanka and back, she became a research fellow at MIT, as a member of a team in the department created by Jay Forrester, the inventor of system dynamics as well as the principle of magnetic data storage for computers. She taught at Dartmouth College for 29 years, beginning in 1972. She died in 2001 of a bacterial infection.\n\nMeadows was honored both as a Pew Scholar in Conservation and Environment (1991) and as a MacArthur Fellow (1994). She received the Walter C. Paine Science Education Award in 1990. Posthumously, she received the John H. Chafee Excellence in Environmental Affairs Award for 2001, presented by the Conservation Law Foundation.\n\nMeadows wrote \"The Global Citizen,\" a weekly column on world events from a systems point of view. Many of these columns were compiled and published as a book by the same name. Her work is recognized as a formative influence on hundreds of other academic studies, government policy initiatives, and international agreements.\n\nMeadows was a longtime member of the United States Association for the Club of Rome, which instituted an award in her memory, the US Association for the Club of Rome Donella Meadows Award in Sustainable Global Actions. The award is given to an outstanding individual who has created actions in a global framework toward the sustainability goals Meadows expressed in her writings.\n\nIn 1972, she was on the MIT team that produced the global computer model \"World3\" for the Club of Rome, providing the basis for \"The Limits to Growth.\" The book reported a study of long-term global trends in population, economics, and the environment. The book made headlines around the world and began a debate about the limits of Earth's capacity to support human economic expansion—a debate that continues to this day. Meadows was the book's lead author, and it had three coauthors: her husband Dennis Meadows, Jørgen Randers, and William W. Behrens III.\n\nIn 1982, Donella and Dennis Meadows created an international \"network of networks\" for leading researchers on resource use, environmental conservation, systems modeling, and sustainability. Since its foundation, the members have met at Lake Balaton, Hungary, every autumn. While the formal name for the network was the International Network of Resource Information Centres (INRIC), it became more popularly known as the Balaton Group, after the location of its meetings.\n\nMeadows founded the Sustainability Institute, which combined research in global systems with practical demonstrations of sustainable living, including the development of a cohousing (or ecovillage) and organic farm at Cobb Hill in Hartland, Vermont. In 2011, the Sustainability Institute, originally adjacent to Cobb Hill, was renamed the Donella Meadows Institute and moved to Norwich, Vermont. Additional organizations that sprang from the Sustainability Institute include Sustainable Food Lab, Climate Interactive, and Sustainability Leaders Network.\n\nIn 1990, Meadows published the State of the Village report under the title, \"Who lives in the 'Global Village'?\" which likened the world to a village of 1,000 people. Since then, \"If the world were a village of 100 people\", derived from her work but further reducing the numbers to those of a village of 100 people, has been published by others in English, Spanish, and Japanese.\n\nMeadows published \"Leverage Points: Places to Intervene in a System\", one of her best-known essays, in 1999. It describes the most and least effective types of interventions in a system (of any kind).\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:1941 births]]\n[[Category:2001 deaths]]\n[[Category:American environmentalists]]\n[[Category:Carleton College alumni]]\n[[Category:Dartmouth College faculty]]\n[[Category:Ecological economists]]\n[[Category:Environmental scientists]]\n[[Category:Harvard University alumni]]\n[[Category:MacArthur Fellows]]\n[[Category:American non-fiction environmental writers]]\n[[Category:American systems scientists]]\n[[Category:Vermont culture]]\n[[Category:Sustainability advocates]]\n[[Category:Women systems scientists]]\n[[Category:20th-century women scientists]]\n[[Category:20th-century American scientists]]\n[[Category:People from Hanover, New Hampshire]]\n[[Category:People from Plainfield, New Hampshire]]\n[[Category:People from Hartland, Vermont]]"}
{"id": "27363348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27363348", "title": "Election day", "text": "Election day\n\nElection day or polling day is the day on which general elections are held. In many countries, general elections are always held on a Saturday or Sunday, to enable as many voters as possible to participate; while in other countries elections are always held on a weekday. However, some countries, or regions within a country, which hold elections on a weekday declare election day a public holiday. Countries which permit absentee ballots, early ballots or postal votes to be cast by mail prior to the election avoiding the problem altogether by enabling voters to vote on a day that is more convenient to them.\n\nAn election day usually culminates in an election night when the results of the election are tallied and winners are announced.\n\nElections in the European Union take place over a period of four days (i.e., Thursday through to Sunday), according to the election days of the EU members states (as listed above). There are some exceptions; as Wednesday was not covered by the available dates, the Netherlands holds elections on Thursday, while Denmark holds elections on Sunday.\n\nLocal elections in Spain (as well as regional elections in the case of regions where the head of government is not able to prematurely dissolve the legislature at will) are held by law on the 4th Sunday of May.\n\n"}
{"id": "721274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=721274", "title": "Enrique Peralta Azurdia", "text": "Enrique Peralta Azurdia\n\nColonel Alfredo Enrique Peralta Azurdia (June 17, 1908 – February 18, 1997) was President of Guatemala from March 31, 1963 to July 1, 1966.\n\nEnrique Peralta was born on June 17, 1908 in Guatemala City. He took over the presidency after a coup against president Miguel Ydígoras Fuentes, under whom he served as Agriculture (1959-1960) and Defense Minister (1961-1963). He set up the Institutional Democratic Party, a pro-military governing party modeled on the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which dominated Guatemalan politics until 1982. In the 1978 election, he was the candidate of the National Liberation Movement but was defeated by Fernando Romeo Lucas García.\n"}
{"id": "3692282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3692282", "title": "Euskal Iraultzarako Alderdia", "text": "Euskal Iraultzarako Alderdia\n\nEuskal Iraultzarako Alderdia (\"Party for the Basque Revolution\") or EIA was a Basque Country/Spanish political party between 1977 and 1982.\n\nThe party was founded in April 1977 in Gallarta (Biscay) after the 7th general assembly of ETA, during the Spanish transition to democracy. Its ideology was based on a blend of \"independentism\" and socialism - originally, they tended to be rather Marxism-Leninism, but subsequently moved towards Eurocommunism. \n\nEIA made a coalition with the Basque section of the Communist Movement of Spain (\"Movimiento Comunista de España\"), creating a coalition named Euskadiko Ezkerra. They won a seat in the Spanish Congress of Deputies, occupied by Francisco Letamendia (also known as \"Ortzi\") and another in the Senate, occupied by Juan María Bandrés. It campaigned for the \"no\" in the 1978 referendum to approve the Spanish constitution, but in favour of the Basque Statute of Autonomy in the referendum held in 1979. EIA disappeared in 1982, when Euskadiko Ezkerra became a political party.\n\n"}
{"id": "3992056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3992056", "title": "Federation of International Bandy", "text": "Federation of International Bandy\n\nThe Federation of International Bandy (FIB; , , ) is the international governing body for the sport of bandy, including the variant called rink bandy.\n\nBandy as we know it today has been played since the later half of the 19th Century. Rules were set up in the 1890s by the National Bandy Association in England and by the corresponding body in Russia. The Ligue International de Hockey sur Glace (LIHG) was founded on 15 May 1908 at 34 Rue de Provence in Paris, France, at a time when bandy and ice hockey were seen as variants of the same game. The founders of the federation were representatives from Belgium, France, Great Britain, Switzerland and Bohemia (now Czech republic). However, as ice hockey became an Olympic sport while bandy did not, bandy only survived in some of the Nordic countries and the Soviet Union. LIHG is now the International Ice Hockey Federation.\n\nIn the 1940s, the Nordic countries Finland, Norway and Sweden set up a joint rules committee. In the early 1950s, the Soviet Union decided to break out of its isolation in international sport and started a friendly exchange with the said Nordic countries.\n\nThe federation was formed on 12 February 1955 at Hotell Malmen in Stockholm, Sweden, by representatives from Finland, Norway, the Soviet Union and Sweden. The federation has had its base in Sweden since 1979. The present office is situated in Söderhamn, headed by FIB Secretary General Bo Nyman. Boris Skrynnik is the FIB President.\n\nWhen FIB was formed in 1955, it introduced the same rules for bandy all over the world. Especially in Russia and other Soviet Republics, different rules had been used prior to this. Bandy World Championships have been organized for men since 1957 and for women since 2004.\n\nThe federation was named the International Bandy Federation (IBF) between 1957 and 2001. The current name was adopted at a request from the International Olympic Committee when the IOC made bandy a \"recognized sport\", since the acronym IBF at the time was already in use by the International Badminton Federation (in 2006, the International Badminton Federation changed names to Badminton World Federation and now uses the acronym BWF). In 2004, FIB was fully accepted by IOC.\n\nFIB is a member of Association of IOC Recognised International Sports Federations as well as Global Association of International Sports Federations.\n\nThe number of bandy playing nations have grown considerably in the last decades. There were 27 national members of the federation as of 2017\n\nIn 2011, FIB formulated its purposes as being the following.\n\nFIB vows to completely share the principles and articles of the Olympic Charter in its activities, including the policy with regard to anti-doping controls.\n\nFIB wants to promote the development of the sports of bandy and rink bandy in the member countries and wants to carry on propaganda for the importance and advantages of these sports. FIB also works for bandy to become an Olympic sport.\n\nFIB declares itself to be an \"independent autonomic mainsports organization which mainly is governing bandy activities all over the world\".\n\nFIB leads and supervises bandy and rink bandy around the world. FIB also sees as its job to settle the rules for the games.\n\nOne national member association should be entrusted by FIB with arranging an official world championship. FIB means that at least four nations must participate for it to be worth an event.\n\nFIB also wants to promote the introduction and the membership of new nations to the organisation.\n\nThe rules of bandy is set in the Bandy Playing Rules. It is overseen by the Rules and Referee Committee.\n\nFIB has an agreement with the International Skating Union to use the same arenas. The cooperation between the two federations is increasing, since both have an interest in more indoor venues with large ice surfaces being built.\n\nThe following persons have been presidents of FIB:\n\nThe federation was founded by the national bandy associations in Finland, Norway, the Soviet Union and Sweden.\n\nThe Soviet membership was taken over by Russia in early 1992, following the dissolvement of the Soviet Union in December 1991. For two months, the former Soviet Union national bandy team appeared as Commonwealth of Independent States, but the CIS was never formally a member of the FIB.\n Soviet Union 1955–1991: When the international federation was founded in 1955, the Soviet Union was one of its founding members. The Soviet national federation was called the Federation of bandy and field hockey USSR (Федерация хоккея с мячом и хоккея на траве СССР). The Soviet Union had a national bandy team for men and a national bandy team for women. When the Soviet Union was dissolved in December 1991, the national team came to represent the Commonwealth of Independent States for some months. In 1992, Russia took over its place in FIB.\n\nA number of national federations have been admitted as members during the years but then for different reasons not survived, often because of a lack of interest in the sport in their countries. In early 2017, seven federations were removed from the member list of FIB and in the summer of 2018 one more. These defunct national federations were:\n\n\nThe Asian countries in FIB have founded the Asian Bandy Federation, which has its headquarters in Almaty, Kazakhstan. This helps organize the bandy competition at the Asian Winter Games and works to spread the knowledge of bandy in Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30387744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30387744", "title": "Fee farm grant", "text": "Fee farm grant\n\nIn English and Irish law, a fee farm grant is a hybrid type of land ownership typical in cities and towns. The word \"fee\" is derived from fief, meaning a feudal landholding, and a fee farm grant is similar to a fee simple in the sense that it gives the grantee the right to hold a freehold estate, the only difference being the payment of an annual rent (farm being an archaic word for rent) and covenants, thus putting both parties in a landlord-tenant relationship.\n\nFee farm grants fall into three categories:\nThe ban on subinfeudation in the fee simple did not apply to land granted after \"Quia Emptores\" to supporters of the Crown. These new estates (many of which were created after the 17th-century plantations) were thus regularly divided into subtenures as fee farm grants.\nAny perpetually renewable leases for life were converted into fee farm grants after the enactment of the Renewable Leasehold Conversion Act 1849. This act also allowed any existing lessees for lives to convert their holding into a fee farm grant.\nThe Landlord and Tenant Law Amendment (Ireland) Act 1860 (i.e. Deasy's Act) allowed for the creation of express fee farm grants.\n\nIn Ireland the Land and Conveyancing Law Reform Act 2009 (Section 12) does not allow the creation of any new fee farm grants, and where any such attempt is made a fee simple is automatically created instead. The act did not alter the status of any existing fee farm grants.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325080", "title": "Finnicization", "text": "Finnicization\n\nFinnicization (also finnicisation, fennicization, fennicisation) is the changing of one's personal names from other languages (usually Swedish) into Finnish. During the era of National Romanticism in Finland, many people, especially Fennomans, finnicized their previously Swedish family names.\n\nSome of these people were descended from Finnish-speaking farmers, who had previously changed their Finnish names to Swedish ones after climbing society's ladder. This was an understandable stratagem, as official positions (and even many trades) were only open to those speaking Swedish, and a Finnish name would have been an impediment to success. \n\nA notable event in finnicization was the centenary, in 1906, 100 years after the birth of the philosopher and statesman Johan Vilhelm Snellman. Author Johannes Linnankoski encouraged Finns to give up their Swedish names on 12 May, Snellman's birthday. During 1906 and 1907 about 70,000 Finns changed their names.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "463752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463752", "title": "First Ministers' conference", "text": "First Ministers' conference\n\nIn Canada, a First Ministers' conference is a meeting of the provincial and territorial premiers and the Prime Minister. These events are held at the call of the prime minister and, since 1950, have typically been held annually. They are usually held in Ottawa.\n\nThough known as \"First Ministers' conferences\" only since the 1960s, they ultimately trace their origin to the initial constitutional convention held in the mid-1860s at Charlottetown, PEI, then-capital of the British Province of Prince Edward Island. After confederation, two conferences of provincial premiers were held, in 1887 and 1902, in which the federal government was not represented.\n\nAltogether, 76 First Ministers' conferences have been held since the first was convened by Prime Minister Sir Wilfrid Laurier in 1906, at the request of the provinces. Some important First Ministers' conferences were those leading up to the Meech Lake and Charlottetown Accords. The failed Charlottetown Accord contained a provision that would have made annual First Ministers' conferences obligatory.\n\nThe conferences are important for a number of reasons. A sizable portion of provincial funding (referred to as transfer payments) comes from the federal government, the conferences are an opportunity for the premiers to lobby for more money. Today it is common for the Premiers to meet beforehand to present a common front to the federal government. They are also important in that Canada's federal system leaves a fair amount of overlap between federal and provincial jurisdictions and most large initiatives require some provincial support.\n\nThe vast majority of the activity at a First Ministers' conference takes place behind closed doors. A public statement is issued after the conference.\n\nFormerly, the government leaders of the territories were only occasionally invited to these conferences, depending on whether issues relevant to the north are being discussed. Today, these leaders normally attend the meetings. The national chief of the Assembly of First Nations may also be invited to attend when issues relevant to First Nations communities are on the agenda; the group has lobbied for greater inclusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57519583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57519583", "title": "Formula restaurant", "text": "Formula restaurant\n\nA formula restaurant is a type of formula retail business. It is characterized as a restaurant regulated by contractual or other arrangements to standardize menus, ingredients, food preparation, interior and exterior design and/or uniforms. The term refers to the characteristics of the restaurant rather than its ownership, following a business model controlled by an overseeing corporation. Most formula restaurants are chain restaurants, though this does not have to be the case.\n\nIn legal definitions, there may be a minimum number of \"substantially identical\" restaurants for them to be considered formula restaurants. This number varies across jurisdictions.\n\nFormula retail is a type of sales activity required by contractual or other arrangements to offer a standardized array of services and/or merchandise, trademark, interior or exterior design and/or uniforms. This applies to the restaurant industry where menus, ingredients and food preparation may be standardized according to the overseeing corporation's business model, intended to maximize marketing potential.\n\nAlthough there is considerable financial overlap, \"chain restaurant\" refers to ownership or franchise while \"formula restaurant\" refers to the characteristics of the business. A formula restaurant doesn't need to belong to a chain but it generally does. Nevertheless, most codified municipal regulation relies on definitions of formula restaurant or formula retail (although non-codified restrictions will sometimes target \"chains\").\n\nSome chain restaurants are not considered formula restaurants because the chain does not maintain a formulaic or monolithic character at different locations, or has few enough locations that they are substantially dissimilar to what is commonly considered to be a formula restaurant. In addition, the term \"chain restaurants\" generically describes a business arrangement, whereas formula restaurants describe the aesthetic characteristics and customer experience.\n\nIn some cases, a chain may establish a set of formula restaurants but attempt to present each venue as unique. This is common with hotel chains, which rely on centralized meal planning and management, but want to avoid the appearance of their in-house dining facilities being formulaic. Generally, the local manager is encouraged to modify the corporate menu so as to present the appearance of a unique character, while still building the menu around a corporate model (e.g., several entrees based on frozen chicken breast in accordance with a corporate formula). Disguised formula restaurants may be recognized by marketing indicators: intense use of staged photographs on the menu, frequent use of marketing buzzwords (or marketing terms) such as \"add\" listed under multiple menu items.\n\nConcerns have been expressed that formula restaurants detract from the unique characteristics of cities and towns. The standardization of menus can mean fewer choices for consumers. Formula restaurants tend to be marketing centric or based on perception.\n\nFormula restaurants can harm local independent businesses. Formula restaurants accelerate gentrification but deteriorate quality of life.\n\nFormula restaurants often rely on an economic model that encourages the use of disposable tableware. This can create a negative economy in waste and food distribution, in part to support the business model of the controlling corporation.\n\n\n\nIn the United States, legal restrictions on formula restaurants (and formula retail in general) have been challenged as an impermissible restriction on interstate commerce, and as exceeding municipal zoning authority. Restrictions are generally held permissible if they are not arbitrary, and directed to the character of the business and not the ownership.\n\n"}
{"id": "9007683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9007683", "title": "General Archive of the Nation (Colombia)", "text": "General Archive of the Nation (Colombia)\n\nThe General Archive of the Nation () is a Colombian government agency ascribed to the Colombian Ministry of Culture charged with \"\"conserving the historical legacy, as well as recovering and circulating the documentary heritage of the country\". It is the head of the National System of Archives. The headquarters are located in the city of Bogotá and was designed by the architect Rogelio Salmona.\n\nThe archive contains historical documents that date from 1541 to 1991. These documents include constitutional policies, notarized documents, judicial documents from colonial times, letters from famous historical figures such as Simón Bolívar, and historical maps of the New Kingdom of Granada. The collections has documents from all periods of the history of the Americas, from the conquest to the present day. In addition to material from Colombia, the archive has documents from the territories that formed the New Kingdom of Granada as well as from the later countries of Gran Colombia, Venezuela, Panama, and Ecuador. There are also documents from Central America, Peru, and Chile. A collection of documents titled \"Negros y Esclavos\"\" (\"Blacks and Slaves\") was featured by UNESCO as part of its Memory of the World Programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "44167477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44167477", "title": "Hansson II Cabinet", "text": "Hansson II Cabinet\n\nThe second cabinet of Per Albin Hansson () was the cabinet of Sweden from 1936 to 1939. It was a coalition cabinet consisting of the two parties: Social Democrats and the Farmers' League.\n\nSince 1933, the Social Democrats had organized cooperation with the Farmers' League, when a historic compromise was reached between the parties regarding political collaboration, which was an important part of the Swedish model.\nThis cooperation ceased temporarily in the summer of 1936, when Per Albin Hansson resigned his first cabinet. The reason for the resignation was that it did not get the support in parliament for its defense policy, even though it was only three months left to the autumn general election.\n\nThe task of forming a new government went to the Farmers' League's leader Axel Pehrsson-Bramstorp. This so-called vacation government launched any reforms or implemented some changes in the law since the parliament was not collected. The fall elections were a major success for the Social Democrats, which gave rise to the Prime Minister to submit the government's resignation.\n\nThe task of forming a new government went back to Per Albin Hansson as to the general astonishment government began negotiations with the Farmers' League, possibly because the Social Democrats did not want to depend on any of the left parties in parliamentary polls. The Farmers' League received three ministerial posts: Pehrsson-Bramstorp as Minister for Agriculture, Karl Gustaf Westman as Minister for Justice, and Janne Nilsson as Minister for Defence. Together, the two parties in the coalition a majority in both chambers, to sklinnad from previous minority governments.\n\nIn the period leading to World War II, the Government implemented a number of social reforms, including expensive district grouping of basic pensions and the introduction of two weeks paid vacation for all workers.\n\nWhen the Finnish Winter War broke out, the government resigned and instead formed a coalition government, consisted by the Social Democrats, the Farmers' League, the Liberal People's Party, and the National Organization of the Right.\n\n"}
{"id": "2202294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2202294", "title": "Immovable property", "text": "Immovable property\n\nImmovable property is an immovable object, an item of property that cannot be moved without destroying or altering it – property that is fixed to the earth, such as land or a house. Immovable property includes premises, property rights (for example, inheritable building right), houses, land and associated goods, and chattels if they are located on, or below, or have a fixed address. It is delimited by geographic coordinates or by reference to local landmarks, depending on the jurisdiction.\n\nIn much of the world's civil law systems (based as they are on Romano-Germanic law, which is also known as Civil law or Continental law), immovable property is the equivalent of \"real property\"; it is land or any permanent feature or structure above or below the surface.\n\nTo describe it in more detail, immovable property includes land, buildings, hereditary allowances, rights to way, lights, ferries, fisheries or any other benefit which arises out of land, and things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything which is attached to the earth. It does not include standing timber, growing crops, nor grass. It includes the right to collect rent, life interest in the income of the immovable property, a right of way, a fishery, or a lease of land.\n\nOther sources describe immovable property as \"any land or any building or part of a building, and includes, where any land or any building or part of a building is to be transferred together with any machinery, plant, furniture, fittings or other things, such machinery, plant, furniture, fittings and other things also. Any rights in or with respect to any land or any building or part of building (whether or not including any machinery, plant, furniture, fittings or other things therein) which has been constructed or which is to be constructed, accruing or arising from any transaction (whether by way of becoming a member of, or acquiring shares in, a co-operative society, or other association of persons) or by way of any agreement or any arrangement of whatever nature, not being a transaction by way of sale, exchange or lease of such land, building or part of a building.\"\n\nImmovable property cannot be altered or remodeled, added to, or reconstructed without entering into an agreement with and getting permission from its owner. Construction, alteration, and demolition may also be subject to government regulation, such as the need to obey zoning laws and obtain building permits.\n\nAlso, a property or an object, which can be moved by destroying it would be considered a \"destructible property\" rather than an \"immovable property\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55053835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55053835", "title": "Interracial marriage and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints", "text": "Interracial marriage and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\n\nIn the past, leaders of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) have consistently opposed marriage between different ethnicities. Apostle Boyd K. Packer publicly stated in 1977 that \"We've always counseled in the Church for our Mexican members to marry Mexicans, our Japanese members to marry Japanese, our Caucasians to marry Caucasians, our Polynesian members to marry Polynesians. ... The counsel has been wise.\" Nearly every decade for over a century—beginning with the church's formation in the 1830s until the 1970s—has seen some denunciation against miscegenation, with most focusing on black-white marriage.\n\nThough no longer taught as a sin, Mormon leaders punished white members who married black individuals by banning both from entering a temple into at least the 60s and recommended against any interracial marriages in official publications into the 2000s. The teachings of church leaders on race and interracial marriage have stemmed from biological and social ideas of the time and have garnered criticism and controversy. One exception was intermarriage with Native Americans, who Mormons believed descended from Israelites. In 2013, the LDS Church disavowed previous teachings that interracial marriage is a sin.\n\nThe church's attitude was reflected in past Utah laws where its members held a notable amount of political influence. In 1852 a law was passed banning sexual intercourse between a white person and \"any of the African race.\" Utah Territory, which was about 80% Mormon in 1880, passed an anti-miscegenation law in 1888 prohibiting marriages between a \"negro\" or \"mongolian\" (i.e. Asian person) and a \"white person\". In 1890, black individuals made up less than .3% of Utah's population of 210,000 people, and Chinese were less than .4%, and Native Americans were 1.6% of the population. The law was expanded by the two-thirds-Mormon state of Utah in 1939 to prohibit a white person from marrying a \"Mongolian, a member of the malay race or a mulatto, quadroon, or octoroon.\" Unlike other states, however, Utah's law said nothing about marriage between white people and Native American people. The laws banning interracial marriage remained until they were repealed by the Utah state legislature in 1963.\n\nMormons saw Native Americans as a higher race than black people, believing that they were descendants of the Israelites, and that through intermarriage they could be restored to a \"white and delightsome\" state. On July 17, 1831, Joseph Smith said he received a revelation in which God wanted several early elders of the church to eventually marry Native American women in a polygamous relationship so that their posterity may become \"white, delightsome, and just.\"\n\nLater, Brigham Young continued to encourage Mormon men to marry Native American women as a process to make them white and delightsome and restore them to their \"pristine beauty\" within a few generations. He performed the first recorded sealing ceremony between a \"Lamanite\" and a white member in October 1845 when an Oneida man Lewis Dana and Mary Gont were sealed in the Nauvoo temple. There is evidence that Young may have married his Bannock servant Sally (who later married Ute chief Kanosh). By 1870 only about 30 Mormon men had Native American wives, and few further interracial marriages with Native Americans occurred. Later Mormons believed Native American skins would be lightened through some other method. Under Spencer Kimball, the church had begun discouraging interracial marriages with Native Americans.\n\nIn The Book of Mormon, the Lord cursed the Lamanites and their skin (Jacob 3:5) in a form of a mark of blackness so that the Nephites would not find the Lamanites \"enticing\", (2 Nephi 5:21) \"that they might not mix and believe in incorrect traditions\" (Alma 3:8) and so that the Nephites and the Lamanites would be a separate people (Alma 3:14). If someone intermarried and had children with the Lamanites, the Lord also marked and cursed them (Alma 3:15) and cursed their descendants (2 Nephi 5:23 and Alma 3:9).\n\nHugh Nibley, a prominent Mormon apologist, argues that the curse could be thought of as a culture with traditions that were inconsistent with God's commandments. He argues the curse did not spread through intermarriage alone, but that the Nephites had to participate in the Lamanite culture. He argues that Lord put the mark on the Lamanites to prevent the spread of Lamanite culture among the Nephites. However, the Book of Mormon Seminary Teacher Manual, which is currently used to teach seminary students about the Book of Mormon, quotes Joseph Fielding Smith in \"Answers to Gospel Questions\" that the skin color was given to \"keep the two peoples from mixing\".\n\nIn the Book of Abraham, the name of Ham's wife is Egyptus, which is given the meaning of forbidden. It teaches that their grandson, Pharaoh, was a descendant of the Canaanites (Abraham 1:22), a race of people who had been cursed with black skin (Moses 7:8). W. W. Phelps, a counselor in the presidency of the church, taught that Ham himself was cursed because he had married a black wife. In \"The Way to Perfection\", Joseph Fielding Smith quoted B. H. Roberts in pointing out that Egyptus means forbidden, and suggests that might be because she was \"of a race with which those who held the Priesthood were forbidden to intermarry.\" The Old Testament Student Manual, which is the manual currently used to teach the Old Testament, teaches that Ham's sons were denied the priesthood because he had married Egyptus.\n\nIn Genesis 28:1, Isaac commands Jacob not to marry the Canaanites. The Old Testament Seminary Teacher Manual, which is the manual currently used to teach the Old Testament to seminary students, teaches that it is because \"a daughter of Canaan would not be worthy to join Jacob in entering into a marriage covenant with the Lord.\"\n\nIn Deuteronomy 7, the Israelites were commanded not to marry the Canaanites. In 1954, Mark E. Petersen used this as an example of why the church did not allow interracial marriages.\n\nIn Judges 14, Samson marries a Philistine woman. The Old Testament Seminary Teacher Manual teaches that marrying a Philistine was against the will of God.\n\nIn a January 1843 church founder Joseph Smith wrote, \"Had I [anything] to do with the Negro I would confine them by strict [l]aw to their own species,\" in reference to interracial marriage. A year later as mayor of Nauvoo, Illinois, he held a trial and fined two black men the modern equivalent of thousands of dollars for trying to marry white women. However, a decade earlier hundreds of non-Mormon citizens of Jackson County, Missouri stated that the Mormons were inviting black people to live among them, thus, creating the risk of interracial marriage, citing this as of the reasons for requesting the removal of the Mormon people from the state. The apostle Parley Pratt denied this invitation had taken place, however.\n\nThere are other records of Smith's teaching on interracial marriage. For example, in 1897 First Presidency member George Cannon stated in his journal that Joseph Smith had taught a later president of the church, John Taylor, that a white man married to a woman with black ancestry could not receive the priesthood and they both would be killed along with any of their children if the penalty of the law were executed. Three years later Cannon also stated that Joseph Smith had taught John Taylor the doctrine that any male child born with any black heritage from one or more parents could not receive the priesthood as he was \"tainted with Negro blood.\" In 1908, Smith's nephew Joseph F. Smith stated that the church founder had declared that the priesthood ordination was void for Elijah Abel who only had one black great-grandparent (Abel was referred to as an octoroon man at the time for his one-eighth black heritage) from a mixed-race marriage long ago. Abel's petitions for temple ordinances were also denied by the next two church presidents Brigham Young and John Taylor because of his mixed heritage.\n\nSmith's successor Brigham Young publicly taught on at least three occasions (1847, 1852, and 1865) that the punishment for black-white interracial marriage was death, and that killing a black-white interracial couple and their children as part of a blood atonement would be a blessing to them. He further stated his belief that interracial children are sterile \"like a mule\". Young taught that the moment the church consents to white members having children with black individuals the church would go to destruction, and that, \"Any man having one drop of the seed of Cane in him cannot hold the priesthood.\" Young also taught that people who had children with a black person would be cursed to the priesthood.\n\nBlood atonement is the doctrine that some crimes are so heinous that the atonement of Jesus does not apply, including miscegenation. Instead, to atone for these sins, the perpetrators should be killed in a way that would allow their blood to be shed upon the ground as a sacrificial offering. This doctrine was the most widespread during the Mormon Reformation. Examples of Young's teaching on this and interracial relationships include the following:\n\nIn 1847, former slave and Mormon convert William McCary drew the ire of Brigham Young and others in Nauvoo for his marriage to the white Mormon Lucy Stanton, and his later alleged mixed-race polygamous sealings to other white women without authorization. McCary claimed Native American heritage in order to marry Stanton and avoid the greater stigma that the few black people in Nauvoo faced. The most common interpretation of the interracial events around McCary and his excommunication is that they contributed to or precipitated the subsequent ban of black members from temple ordinances and priesthood authority. McCary elicited the first recorded general authority statement connecting race and the priesthood when the apostle Parley Pratt referred to him as the \"black man who has got the blood of Ham in him which linege [sic] was cursed as regards the priesthood.\"\n\nIn 1866 Thomas Coleman, a black member of the LDS church, was murdered in Salt Lake City after it was discovered that he was courting a white woman. His throat was slit so deeply from ear to ear that he was nearly decapitated, and his right breast was slit open, similar to the penalties illustrated in the temple ritual and taught by Brigham Young. He was castrated and a note warning black men to stay away from white women was pinned to his chest. Historian Michael Quinn states that this murder was a fulfillment of Young's 1852 teaching that the penalty for miscegenation was decapitation. FairMormon argues that Coleman's death may have been unrelated to Young's teachings or temple penalties, since Coleman was not an endowed member.\n\nIn the late 1800's at least two white members were denied church ordinances after they had married a black person. In 1895 a white woman was denied a temple sealing to her white husband because she had previously married a black man, even though she had divorced him. First Presidency member George Cannon argued that allowing her access to the temple would not be fair to her two daughters, whom she'd had with her former husband. Another white man was denied the priesthood in 1897 because he had married a black woman, though, then senior apostle Lorenzo Snow stated that the man would be eligible if he divorced his wife and married a white woman. Additionally, Cannon recorded in his journal having stated in 1881 that when it came to the important question of interracial marriage, Mormons believed against \"intermarriage with inferior races, particularly the negro.\"\n\nIn 1900, George Cannon, first counselor under Lorenzo Snow, repeated Brigham Young's teachings that if a man who had the priesthood married a black woman, then according to the law of the Lord, the man and any offspring should be killed so that the seed of Cain did not receive the priesthood.\n\nSome other early 20th century teachings on the subject include notes from a 1907 Deseret News book by church seventy and influential Mormon theologian B.H. Roberts. In it Roberts approvingly quoted a Southern author who stated that a social divide between white and black people should be maintained at all costs as socializing would lead to mixed-race marriages with an inferior race and no disaster would compare to this as it would doom the Caucasian race. Additionally, a 1913 church publication in the church's \"Young Woman's Journal\" encouraged young women to maintain white racial purity and health by avoiding \"race disintegration\" and \"race suicide\".\n\nFirst Presidency member Reuben Clark's under George Smith told Young Women's general leaders in 1946 that, \"It is sought today in certain quarters to break down all race prejudice, and at the end of the road ... is intermarriage. ...[D]o not ever let that wicked virus get into your systems that brotherhood either permits or entitles you to mix races which are inconsistent. Biologically, it is wrong; spiritually, it is wrong.\" The quote was reprinted in the church's official Improvement Era magazine (a predecessor to the current Ensign magazine). Three years later as senior vice-president of the church-owned Hotel Utah which then banned black people, Clark stated that the ban was in place to prevent interracial socializing that could hurt church leaders' efforts \"to preserve the purity of the race that is entitled to hold the priesthood.\" In response to inquiries from a Californian stake president about whether white members were required to associate with black people he also wrote that the church taught white members to avoid social interaction with black people since it could lead to mixed-race marriages and multi-ethnic children.\n\nIn 1947 the First Presidency, sent a response letter to a member inquiring on the subject stating, \"Social intercourse between the Whites and the Negroes should certainly not be encouraged because of leading to intermarriage, which the Lord has forbidden. ... [T]rying to break down social barriers between the Whites and the Blacks is [a move] that should not be encouraged because inevitably it means the mixing of the races if carried to its logical conclusion.\" Two months later in a letter to Lowry Nelson, the First Presidency stated that marriage between a black person and a white person is not sanctioned by the church and is \"contrary to church doctrine\".\n\nThe latter half of the 20th century saw many changes in U.S. legal, and social views of interracial marriage, and many changes in top church leaders' teachings on the topic. For instance, church apostle Mark Petersen said in a 1954 address that church doctrine barred black people and white people from marrying each other. The speech was circulated among BYU religion faculty, much to the embarrassment of fellow LDS scholars, and over twenty years later Petersen denied knowing if the copies of his speech being passed around were authentic or not, apparently out of embarrassment.\nIn 1958, church apostle Bruce McConkie published \"Mormon Doctrine\" in which he stated that \"the whole negro race have been cursed with a black skin, the mark of Cain, so they can be identified as a caste apart, a people with whom the other descendants of Adam should not intermarry.\" The quote remained, despite many other revisions, until the church's Deseret Book ceased printing the book in 2010. The apostle Delber Stapley wrote in a 1964 letter to Mitt Romney's father that black people should not be entitled to \"inter-marriage privileges with the Whites.\"\n\nIn 1966, a white woman who had received her endowments was banned by local leaders from going to the temple and was told her endowments were invalid because she had since married a black man. Church president McKay upheld the ban on going to the temple, but said her endowments were still valid.\n\nTop church leader Spencer W. Kimball gave several speeches addressing the subject. In a June 1958 address at Brigham Young University, he stated that \"When I said you must teach your people to overcome their prejudices and accept the Indians, I did not mean that you would encourage intermarriage ... we must discourage intermarriage ... it is not expedient.\" He clarified, however, that interracial marriage was not considered a sin. In a January 1959 address he taught that church leaders were unanimous in teachings that Caucasians should marry Caucasians stating that interracial marriage was selfish because the background differences could pose challenges to the marriage and children. He also told BYU students in 1965 that \"the brethren feel that it is not the wisest thing to cross racial lines in dating and marrying\", something he repeated to them as church president over a decade later in 1976.\n\nChurch publications have also contained statements discouraging interracial marriage. In the same June 1978 issue announcing that black members were now eligible for temple rites, missionary service, and priesthood ordination, the official newspaper of the LDS Church, printed an article entitled \"Interracial marriage discouraged\". The same day a church spokesman stated \"interracial marriages generally have been discouraged in the past, ... that remains our position\" and that \"the Church does not prohibit ... interracial marriages but it does discourage them.\"\n\nIn 2003 author Jon Krakauer stated that \"official LDS policy has continued to strongly admonish white saints not to marry blacks\" in his \"Under the Banner of Heaven\". In response the church newsroom released a statement from BYU Dean of Religious Education Robert L. Millet that \"There is, in fact, no mention whatsoever in [the church] handbook concerning interracial marriages. In addition, having served as a Church leader for almost 30 years, I can also certify that I have never received official verbal instructions condemning marriages between black and white members.\" Though, denying any condemnation of interracial marriage, there was no comment on whether it was still discouraged, however. The most recent statement came in 2008 when spokesperson Mark Tuttle stated that the church has no policy against interracial marriage.\n\nThe discouragement of marriage between those of different ethnicities by church leaders continued being taught to youth during Sunday meetings until 2013 when the use of the 1996 version of the church Sunday meeting manual for adolescent boys was discontinued. The manual had used a 1976 quote from past church president Spencer Kimball that said, \"We recommend that people marry those who are of the same racial background generally\". The quote is still in use, however, in the 2003 institute Eternal Marriage Student Manual. Additionally, a footnote to a 1995 conference talk by the apostle Russell Nelson notes that loving without racial discrimination is a general commandment, but not one to apply to specific marriage partner criteria since it states that being united in ethnic background increases the probability of a successful marriage.\n\nIn 2013 the LDS Church published an essay entitled \"Race and the Priesthood\" on its official website. The essay disavowed teachings in the past that interracial marriage was a sin, indicating that it was influenced by the racism of the era.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55787707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55787707", "title": "John Hervey Wheeler", "text": "John Hervey Wheeler\n\nJohn Hervey Wheeler (January 1, 1908 – July 6, 1978) was an African American bank president, businessman, civil rights leader, and educator based in North Carolina. Throughout his life, Wheeler was recognized for his accomplishments by various institutions across the country. John H. Wheeler started as a bank teller at Mechanics and Farmers Bank, and worked his way up to become the bank's president in 1952. In the 1960s, Wheeler became increasingly active in United States politics, carrying several White House positions appointed by Presidents John F. Kennedy, Richard Nixon, and Lyndon B. Johnson.\n\nJohn H. Wheeler was born on the campus of Kittrell College in 1908, to John Leonidas and Margaret Hervey Wheeler. In 1935, he married, Serena Warren Wheeler and they subsequently had two children, Warren and Julia. Wheeler died in 1978. In 2017, a bill was introduced into congress to rename the courthouse in Durham, North Carolina the \"John Hervey Wheeler United States Courthouse\" in recognition of his achievements.\n\nJohn H. Wheeler began his academic career at Morehouse College in 1925. He graduated summa cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1929. In 1947, Wheeler graduated from the law school at the North Carolina College for Negroes (now North Carolina Central University). He was also an active member of Omega Psi Phi fraternity, Beta Phi chapter. Beginning as a teller at the Mechanics and Farmers Bank in 1929, he rose to become president of the bank in 1952.\n\nThe activism and leadership of John H. Wheeler thrived in the 1950s and 1960s. He was heavily involved in politics and education through various positions within the federal government and on various boards of trustees for institutions like Morehouse College, Atlanta University, Lincoln Hospital, and the National Scholarship Service for Negro Students. During his time serving in the White House, Wheeler devoted his time to the development of low-income housing, focused on race relations, and the elimination of poverty. He had working relationships with a number of United States presidents, John F. Kennedy, Richard Nixon, and Lyndon B. Johnson, who invited him to assist in drafting the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In 1956, John H. Wheeler was also the first African-American to bring an integration suit in the state of North Carolina.\n\nJohn H. Wheeler was an active member of the United Negro College Fund, where he attended several meetings and convocations for decades. In March 1966 at the UNCF Role of Business Convocation, Wheeler delivered a powerful speech concerning the need for more training and opportunities for African-American scholars. Through UNCF, Wheeler was able to advocate for the need of higher educational opportunities for the black community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "512243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512243", "title": "Lakshmi Mittal", "text": "Lakshmi Mittal\n\nLakshmi Niwas Mittal (; born 15 June 1950) is an Indian steel magnate and \"Zamindar\", based in the United Kingdom. He is the chairman and CEO of ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steelmaking company. Mittal owns 38% of ArcelorMittal and holds an 11% stake in Queens Park Rangers F.C..\n\nIn 2005, \"Forbes\" ranked Mittal as the third-richest person in the world and become first Indian to be ranked in top ten Forbes list. In 2007, Mittal was considered to be the richest Asian person in Europe. He was ranked the sixth-richest person in the world by \"Forbes\" in 2011, but dropped to 82nd place in March 2015. In spite of the drop, \"Forbes\" estimated that he still had a personal wealth of in October 2013. Mukesh Ambani remains the richest Indian, overtaking him, although they have frequently traded places. In 2017, Forbes ranked him as the 56th-richest person in the world with a net worth of US$20.4 billion. He is also the \"57th-most powerful person\" of the 72 individuals named in \"Forbes'\" \"Most Powerful People\" list for 2015. His daughter Vanisha Mittal's wedding was the second-most expensive in recorded history.\n\nMittal has been a member of the board of directors of Goldman Sachs since 2008. He sits on the World Steel Association's executive committee, and is a member of the Global CEO Council of the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries, the Foreign Investment Council in Kazakhstan, the World Economic Forum's International Business Council, and the European Round Table of Industrialists.He is also a member of the board of trustees of the Cleveland Clinic.\n\nIn 2005 \"The Sunday Times\" named him \"Business Person of 2006\", the \"Financial Times\" named him \"Person of the Year\", and \"Time\" magazine named him \"International Newsmaker of the Year 2006\". In 2007, \"Time\" magazine included him in their \"100 most influential persons in the world\".\n\nMittal studied at Shri Daulatram Nopany Vidyalaya, Calcutta from 1957 to 1964. He graduated from St. Xavier's College, Calcutta, with a B.Com degree in the first class from the University of Calcutta. His father, Mohanlal Mittal, ran a steel business, Nippon Denro Ispat. In 1976, due to the curb of steel production by the Indian government, the 26-year-old Mittal opened his first steel factory PT Ispat Indo in Sidoarjo, East Java, Indonesia. Until the 1990s, the family's main assets in India were a cold-rolling mill for sheet steels in Nagpur and an alloy steels plant near Pune. Today, the family business, including a large integrated steel plant near Mumbai, is run by his younger brothers Pramod Mittal and Vinod Mittal, but Lakshmi has no connection with it.\n\nAfter witnessing India win only one medal, bronze, in the 2000 Summer Olympics, and one medal, silver, at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Mittal decided to set up Mittal Champions Trust with $9 million to support ten Indian athletes with world-beating potential. In 2008, Mittal awarded Abhinav Bindra with Rs. 1.5 Crore (Rs. 15 million), for getting India its first individual Olympic gold medal in shooting. ArcelorMittal also provided steel for the construction of the ArcelorMittal Orbit for the 2012 Summer Olympics.\n\nFor Comic Relief he matched the money raised (~£1 million) on the celebrity special BBC programme, \"The Apprentice\".\n\nIn 2003, the Lakshmi Niwas Mittal and Usha Mittal Foundation and the Government of Rajasthan partnered together to establish a university, the LNM Institute of Information Technology (LNMIIT) in Jaipur as an autonomous non-profit organisation.\n\nIn 2009, the Foundation along with Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan founded the Usha Lakshmi Mittal Institute of Management in New Delhi.\n\nSNDT Women's University renamed the Institute of Technology for Women (ITW) as Usha Mittal Institute of Technology after a large donation from the Lakshmi Niwas Mittal Foundation.\n\nIn 2008 the Mittals made a donation of £15 million to Great Ormond Street Hospital in London, the largest private contribution the hospital had ever received. The donation was used to help fund their new facility, the Mittal Children's Medical Centre.\n\nMittal successfully employed Marek Dochnal's consultancy to influence Polish officials in the privatisation of PHS steel group, which was Poland's largest. Dochnal was later arrested for bribing Polish officials on behalf of Russian agents in a separate affair.\n\nIn 2007, the Polish government said it wanted to renegotiate the 2004 sale to ArcelorMittal.\n\nEmployees of Mittal have accused him of \"slave labour\" conditions after multiple fatalities in his mines. During December 2004, twenty-three miners died in explosions in his mines in Kazakhstan caused by faulty gas detectors.\n\nIn 2002 Plaid Cymru MP Adam Price obtained a letter written by Tony Blair to the Romanian Government in support of Mittal's LNM steel company, which was in the process of bidding to buy Romania's state-owned steel industry. This revelation caused controversy, because Mittal had given £125,000 to the British Labour Party the previous year. Although Blair defended his letter as simply \"celebrating the success\" of a British company, he was criticised because LNM was registered in the Dutch Antilles and employed less than 1% of its workforce in the UK. LNM was a \"major global competitor of Britain's own struggling steel industry\".\n\nBlair's letter hinted that the privatisation of the firm and sale to Mittal might help smooth the way for Romania's entry into the European Union. It also had a passage, removed just prior to Blair's signing of it, describing Mittal as \"a friend\".\n\nMittal had emerged as a leading contender to buy and sell Barclays Premiership clubs Wigan and Everton. However, on 20 December 2007 it was announced that the Mittal family had purchased a 20 per cent shareholding in Queens Park Rangers football club joining Flavio Briatore and Mittal's friend Bernie Ecclestone. As part of the investment Mittal's son-in-law, Amit Bhatia, took a place on the board of directors. The combined investment in the struggling club sparked suggestions that Mittal might be looking to join the growing ranks of wealthy individuals investing heavily in English football and emulating similar benefactors such as Roman Abramovich.\n\nOn 19 February 2010, Briatore resigned as QPR chairman, and sold further shares in the club to Ecclestone, making Ecclestone the single largest shareholder.\n\nMittal purchased the Irish Steel plant based in Cork, Ireland, from the government for a nominal fee of £1 million. Three years later, in 2001, it was closed, leaving 400 people redundant. Subsequent environmental issues at the site have been a cause for criticism. The government tried to sue in the High Court to have him pay for the clean-up of Cork Harbour but failed. The clean up was expected to cost €70 million.\n\nMittal was born on 15 June 1950 in Sadulpur, Rajasthan. He is married to Usha Mittal. They have a son Aditya Mittal and a daughter Vanisha Mittal.\n\nLakshmi Mittal has two brothers, Pramod Mittal and Vinod Mittal, and a sister, Seema Lohia, who married Indonesian businessman, Sri Prakash Lohia. His residence at 18-19 Kensington Palace Gardens—which was purchased from Formula One boss Bernie Ecclestone in 2004 for £67 million (US$128 million)—made it the world's most expensive house at the time. The house is decorated with marble taken from the same quarry that supplied the Taj Mahal. The extravagant show of wealth has been referred to as the \"Taj Mittal\". It has 12 bedrooms, an indoor pool, Turkish baths and parking for 20 cars. He is a lacto-vegetarian.\n\nMittal bought No. 9A Palace Greens, Kensington Gardens, formerly the Philippines Embassy, for £70 million in 2008 for his daughter Vanisha Mittal who is married to Amit Bhatia, a businessman and philanthropist. Mittal threw a lavish \"vegetarian reception\" for Vanisha in the Palace of Versailles, France.\n\nMittal owns three prime properties collectively worth £500 million on \"Billionaire's Row\" at Kensington Palace Gardens.\n\nIn 2005, he also bought a colonial bungalow for $30 million at No. 22, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road, New Delhi, one of the most exclusive streets in India, occupied by embassies and billionaires, and rebuilt it as a house.\n\nIn December 2013, Mittal's niece Shrishti Mittal got married in a three-day celebration that is said to have brought Barcelona to a standstill and cost up to £50 million. Some 200 butlers, cooks and secretaries were reportedly flown into Spain from India and Thailand while the 500 guests were made to sign confidentiality agreements.\n\nAccording to the \"Sunday Times Rich List 2016\", Mittal and his family had an estimated personal net worth of 7.12 billion, a decrease of $2.08 billion on the previous year. Meanwhile, in 2016 \"Forbes\" magazine's annual billionaires list assessed estimated Mittal's wealth in 2016 at as the 135th-wealthiest billionaire with a net worth of 8.4 billion. Mittal's net worth peaked in 2008, assessed by \"The Sunday Times\" at £27.70 billion, and by \"Forbes\" at 45.0 billion, and rated as the fourth-wealthiest individual in the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23440989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23440989", "title": "LogLogic", "text": "LogLogic\n\nLogLogic is a technology company that specializes in Security Management, Compliance Reporting, and IT Operations products. LogLogic developed the first appliance-based log management platform. LogLogic's Log Management platform collects and correlates user activity and event data. LogLogic's products are used by many of the world's largest enterprises to rapidly identify and alert on compliance violations, policy breaches, cyber attacks, and insider threats.\n\nLogLogic was founded in 2002 by Jason DeStefano, Thomas Grabowski, and Peter Jordan in Minneapolis, MN. The company was established to help IT system administrators automate the management of log data and diagnose system problems.\n\nIn 2009, LogLogic released database security and compliance management products and acquired , a security information and event management (SIEM) company.\n\nIn 2012, the company was acquired by TIBCO.\n\nLogLogic makes a Computer appliance that IT system administrators, compliance managers, CIOs and CiSOs can use to collect logs and events from network devices, servers, databases, operating systems and applications. The appliances also translate various log formats, search through logs, generate alerts and create graphs with logging trends.\n\nLogLogic products help in several industry compliance mandates and standards, such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX).\n\n\nFocus Ventures, Sequoia Capital, Telesoft Partners, Worldview Technology Partners, INVESCO Private Capital, SAP Ventures, CM-CIC Private Equity, Crédit Agricole Private Equity and ELAIA Partners\n\n"}
{"id": "56755257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56755257", "title": "Lviv Anti-Fascist Congress of Cultural Workers", "text": "Lviv Anti-Fascist Congress of Cultural Workers\n\nLviv Anti-Fascist Congress of Cultural Workers was an event that brought together the progressive intellectuals of Poland, Western Ukraine, and Western Belarus. It took place on May 16-17, 1936 in Lviv, being organized by the Communist Party of Poland along with the Communist Party of Western Ukraine in order to create the united front against Fascism.\n\nIn Paris in 1935, the International Anti-Fascist Congress of Writers took place, led by, among others, Romain Rolland, Andre Gide, Andre Malraux. The meeting called for organizing local unions and meetings of intellectuals whose goal was to defend culture from fascism. The idea to organize such a Congress in Poland was the reply to that call. Besides, the Lviv Congress of 1936 was a political event implementing the recommendations of the 7th Comintern World Congress of 1935 on the organization of Popular Fronts.\n\nWell-known intellectuals such as Stepan Tudor, Yaroslav Halan, Oleksandr Havryliuk, Leon Kruczkowski, Kuzma Plekhatyi, Halina Górska, Adolf Berman and others took part in preparing the Congress.\n\nLviv, as the venue of the Congress, was not chosen by chance. In the 1930s, the city became the center of Polish, Jewish and Ukrainian intellectuals, as well as the arena of class struggle.\n\nSpring of 1936 was a hot period for the working class in Lviv. In April massive clashes between city workers and the police turned into firefights. That time could be called one of the peak moments in the left-wing movement's history in Western Ukraine. The Anti-Fascist Congress became a link of this chain of events, and set the goal to express solidarity between intellectuals and workers.\n\nThe event was held in the Tramway Workers' House, also known as the Red Fortress, a cultural club that was built at the expense of workers' donations and constructed by themselves in 1933.\n\nDuring the meeting, the Congress Hall was decorated with a portrait of Maxim Gorky, who along with Romain Rolland and Heinrich Mann were elected to the Honorary Presidium. The Congress was opened by the Polish communist Henryk Dembiński. The writer Wanda Wasilewska read out the Resolution of the Congress of Cultural Workers.\n\nRepresentatives of the striking workers and former political prisoners spoke at the congress. In breaks between sessions, the writers made speeches at the factories. According to witnesses, the workers made up the vast majority of the Congress guests. Among the participants, all main nationalities of the country - Poles, Ukrainians, Belarusians, and Jews - were represented. Some writers from the Ukrainian SSR were invited.\n\nDuring the Congress, the following reports were made: \"Culture and Fascism\" (by Henryk Dembinski, Stepan Tudor), \"War and the Future of Culture\" (by Leon Kruczkowski), \"Culture and Conditions of Human Labour\" (by Halina Krahelska), \"On the State of Literature, Theatre, Music, Journalism, Education\" (by Marian Czuchnowski, Yaroslav Halan, Wanda Wasilwska, Bronisław Dabrowski, Emil Zegadłowicz, Aleksander Dan).\n\nSpeaking on the national question, the participants of the Congress expressed in favour of meeting all the cultural needs of the nationalities inhabiting the Polish state. The speakers demanded the opening of national schools, Ukrainian and Belarusian universities, and the equal rights of languages. Yaroslav Halan spoke particularly hotly about these issues.\n\nThe Congress debunked the oppressive, pro-fascist policy of the government of the Polish Republic, condemned the oppression of the working masses by the capitalists, bourgeois nationalism, chauvinism, militarism.\n\nThe resolution, unanimously approved, urged the intelligentsia of Poland, Western Ukraine and Western Belarus to participate in a nationwide struggle against Nazism, to stop the preparation of a war against the USSR, for the free development of science and culture. The Congress ended with singing \"The Internationale\".\n\nThe tone of the participants was revolutionary, some of them announced an imminent meeting «in a red Lviv».\n\nThese political accents have caused a scandal. The Association of Railway Bookstores \"Ruch\", which had a monopoly on the distribution of the press, issued a circular forbidding the distribution of communist newspapers - Chłopskie Jutro, Język Międzynarodowy, Kultura Wschodu, Lewar, Lewy Tor, Literatur, Oblicze Dnia and Przekrój Tygodnia - previously available in normal sales.\n\nFor initiators and organizers of the Congress, it was not safe to stay in the city. Soon afterwards, its participants received a signal: «Leave Lviv». For instance, Yaroslav Halan had to move to Warsaw.\n\nYears later, historians of the Communist Party of Western Ukraine regarded the Congress as a great success for their policies.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "101146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101146", "title": "Mayor", "text": "Mayor\n\nIn many countries, a mayor (from the Latin \"maior\" , meaning \"bigger\") is the highest-ranking official in a municipal government such as that of a city or a town.\n\nWorldwide, there is a wide variance in local laws and customs regarding the powers and responsibilities of a mayor as well as the means by which a mayor is elected or otherwise mandated. Depending on the system chosen, a mayor may be the chief executive officer of the municipal government, may simply chair a multi-member governing body with little or no independent power, or may play a solely ceremonial role. Options for selection of a mayor include direct election by the public, or selection by an elected governing council or board.\n\nIn modern England and Wales, the position of mayor descends from the feudal lord's bailiff or reeve (\"see borough\"). The chief magistrate of London bore the title of portreeve for considerably more than a century after the Norman Conquest. This official was elected by popular choice, a privilege secured from King John. By the beginning of the 12th century, the title of portreeve gave way to that of mayor as the designation of the chief officer of London, followed around 1190 by that of Winchester. Other boroughs adopted the title later. In the 19th century, in the United Kingdom, the Municipal Corporations Act 1882, Section 15, regulated the election of mayors. The mayor was to be a fit person elected annually on 9 November by the council of the borough from among the aldermen or councillors or persons qualified to be such. His term of office was one year, but he was eligible for re-election. He might appoint a deputy to act during illness or absence, and such deputy must be either an alderman or councillor. A mayor who was absent from the borough for more than two months became disqualified and had to vacate his office. A mayor was \"ex officio\" a justice of the peace for the borough during his year of office and the following year. He received such remuneration as the council thought reasonable. These provisions have now been repealed.\n\nIn medieval Wales, the Laws of Hywel Dda codified the mayor (Latin: '; Welsh: ') as a position at the royal courts charged with administering the serfs of the king's lands. To maintain its dependence on and loyalty to the Crown, the position was forbidden to the leaders of the clan groups. A separate mayor, known as the \"cow dung mayor\" (\"maer biswail\"), was charged with overseeing the royal cattle. There were similar offices at the Scottish and Irish courts.\n\nThe office of mayor in most modern English and Welsh boroughs and towns did not in the 20th century entail any important administrative duties, and was generally regarded as an honour conferred for local distinction, long service on the Council, or for past services. The mayor was expected to devote much of his (or her) time to civic, ceremonial, and representational functions, and to preside over meetings for the advancement of the public welfare. His or her administrative duties were to act as returning officer at parliamentary elections, and as chairman of the meetings of the council. However, since reforms introduced in 2000, 14 English local authorities have directly elected mayors who combine the 'civic' mayor role with that of Leader of the Council and have significantly greater powers than either. The mayor of a town council is officially known as \"town mayor\" (although in popular parlance, the word \"town\" is often dropped). Women mayors are also known as \"mayor\"; the wife of a mayor is sometimes known as the \"mayoress\". Mayors are not appointed to District Councils which do not have borough status. Their place is taken by the Chairman of Council, who undertakes exactly the same functions and is, like a mayor, the civic head of the district concerned.\n\nIn Scotland the post holders are known as Convenors, Provosts, or Lord Provosts depending on the local authority.\n\nThe original Frankish mayors or majordomos were like the Welsh \"meiri\" lords commanding the king's lands around the Merovingian courts in Austrasia, Burgundy, and Neustria. The mayorship of Paris eventually became hereditary in the Pippinids, who later established the Carolingian dynasty.\n\nIn modern France, since the Revolution, a mayor (\"maire\") and a number of mayoral adjuncts (\"adjoints au maire\") are selected by the municipal council from among their number. Most of the administrative work is left in their hands, with the full council meeting comparatively infrequently. The model was copied throughout Europe in Britain's mayors, Italy's sindacos, most of the German states' burgomasters, and Portugal's presidents of the municipal chambers.\n\nIn Medieval Italy, the city-states who did not consider themselves independent principalities or dukedoms particularly those of the Imperial Ghibelline faction were led by podestàs.\n\nThe Greek equivalent of a mayor is the demarch (Greek: , lit. \"archon of the deme\").\n\nIn Denmark all municipalities are led by a political official called \"borgmester\", \"mayor\". The mayor of Copenhagen is however called \"overborgmester\" \"superior mayor\". In that city other mayors, \"borgmestre\" (plural), are subordinate to him with different undertakings, like ministers to a prime minister. In other municipalities in Denmark there is only a single mayor.\n\nIn Norway and Sweden the mayoral title \"borgermester/borgmästare\" has now been abolished. Norway abolished it in 1937 as a title of the non-political top manager of (city) municipalities and replaced it with the title \"rådmann\" (\"alderman\" or \"magistrate\"), which is still in use when referring to the top managers of the municipalities of Norway. The top \"elected\" official of the municipalities of Norway, on the other hand, has the title \"ordfører\", which actually means \"word-bearer\", i.e. \"chairman\" or \"president\", an equivalent to the Swedish word \"ordförande\".\n\nIn Sweden \"borgmästare\" was a title of the senior judge of the courts of the cities, courts which were called \"rådhusrätt\", literally \"town hall court\", somewhat of an equivalent to an English magistrates' court. These courts were abolished in 1971. Until 1965 these mayor judges on historical grounds also performed administrative functions in the \"board of magistrates\", in Swedish known collegially as \"magistrat\". Until 1965 there were also municipal mayors (\"kommunalborgmästare\"), who had these non-political administrative roles in smaller cities without a magistrates' court or \"magistrat\". This office was an invention of the 20th century as the smaller cities in Sweden during the first half of the 20th century subsequently lost their own courts and magistrates.\n\nIn the 16th century in Sweden, king Gustav Vasa considerably centralised government and appointed the mayors directly. In 1693 king Charles XI accepted a compromise after repeated petitions from the Estate of the Burgesses over decades against the royal mayor appointments. The compromise was that the burgesses in a city could normally nominate a mayor under the supervision of the local governor. The nominee was then to be presented to and appointed by the king, but the king could appoint mayors directly in exceptional cases. This was codified in the Instrument of Government of 1720 and on 8 July the same year Riksrådet (\"the Council of the Realm\") decided, after a petition from the said Estate, that only the city could present nominees, not the king or anyone else. Thus the supervision of the local governor and directly appointed mayors by the king ceased after 1720 (the so-called Age of Liberty). On 16 October 1723, it was decided after a petition that the city should present three nominees, of whom the king (or the Council of the Realm) appointed one. This was kept as a rule from then on in all later regulations and was also kept as a tradition in the 1809 Instrument of Government (§ 31) until 1965.\n\nIn Finland, there are two mayors, in Tampere and Pirkkala. Usually in Finland the highest executive official is not democratically elected, but is appointed to a public office by the city council, and is called simply \"kaupunginjohtaja\" \"city manager\" or \"kunnanjohtaja\" \"municipal manager\", depending on whether the municipality defines itself as a city. The term \"pormestari\" \"mayor\", from Swedish \"borgmästare\" confusingly on historical grounds has referred to the highest official in the registry office and in the city courts (abolished in 1993) as in Sweden, not the city manager. In addition, \"pormestari\" is also an honorary title, which may be given for distinguished service in the post of the city manager. The city manager of Helsinki is called \"ylipormestari\", which translates to \"Chief Mayor\", for historical reasons. Furthermore, the term \"city manager\" may be seen translated as \"mayor\".\n\nOn Australian councils, the mayor is generally the member of the council who acts as ceremonial figurehead at official functions, as well as carrying the authority of council between meetings. Mayoral decisions made between meetings are subject to Council and may be confirmed or repealed if necessary. Mayors in Australia may be elected either directly through a ballot for the position of mayor at a local-government election, or alternatively may be elected from within the council at a meeting.\n\nThe civic regalia and insignia of local government have basically remained unaltered for centuries.\nThe robes, the mayoral chain and the mace are not intended to glorify the individual, but rather they are a uniform of office and are used to respect and honour the people whom the users serve.\n\nThe mayoral robe may be crimson with lapels and sleeves trimmed in ermine. The mayor may also wear a lace fall (neck piece) and cuffs.\n\nThe deputy-mayoral robe may be crimson with lapels and sleeves trimmed with black velvet and bordered with lapin.\n\nMayors have the title of 'His/Her Worship' whilst holding the position.\n\nIn councils where Councillors are elected representing political parties, the mayor is normally the leader of the party receiving the most seats on council. In Queensland the Lord Mayor and Mayors are elected by popular vote at the general council election.\n\nEvery municipality in Brazil elects a mayor (Portuguese: \"prefeito\"/\"prefeita\"), for a four-year term, acting as an executive officer with the city council (Portuguese: \"Câmara Municipal\") functioning with legislative powers. The mayor can be re-elected and manage the city for two consecutive terms.\n\nThe Brazilian system works similarly to the mayor-council government in the United States.\n\nThe chief executives of boroughs (\"arrondissements\") in Quebec are termed mayors (\"maires/mairesses\" in French). A borough mayor simultaneously serves as head of the borough council and as a regular councillor on the main city council.\n\nAs is the practice in most Commonwealth countries, in Canada a mayor is addressed as His/Her Worship while holding office.\n\nIn some small townships in Ontario, the title reeve was historically used instead of mayor. In some other municipalities, \"mayor\" and \"reeve\" were two separate offices, with the mayor retaining leadership powers while the reeve was equivalent to what other municipalities called an \"at-large councillor\". While most municipalities in the province now designate their elected municipal government heads as mayors, in certain areas of the province, the elected head of the municipality continues to be refereed to as reeve, and the second-in-command is referred to as the deputy reeve. For example, this continues to be the case in the municipalities of Algonquin Highlands, Dysart et al, Highlands East, and Minden Hills, all located within the Haliburton County.\n\nMany municipalities in Alberta continue to use the title reeve to denote the office of mayor or chief elected official in accordance with the Municipal Government Act.\n\nIn rural municipalities (RM) in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan, the elected head of the RM is still referred to as a \"reeve\", as are the heads of most counties and district municipalities (DMs) in Alberta.\n\nThe scheduling of municipal elections in Canada varies by jurisdiction, as each province and territory has its own laws regarding municipal governance. See also municipal elections in Canada.\n\nThe mayor of a municipality in the Dominican Republic is called indistinctly \"alcalde\" or \"síndico\". The latter name is preferred as to avoid confusing the title with the similarly sounding \"alcaide\" (\"lit. prison warden\"). Such person is the governor of the municipality whose township elected him (or her) by direct vote for a term of four years. The mayor's office daily duties are restricted to the local governance, and as such, it is responsible for the coordination of waste collection, upkeep of public spaces (parks, undeveloped urban parcels, streets, city ornate, traffic light control, sewage and most public utilities). In practice most of it duties are centered in light street repairing (new or big road projects, like overpasses, bridges, pedestrian crossings, etc. are handled by the Public Works Ministry (\"Ministerio de Obras Públicas\" in Spanish) office), under the direct control of the Central Government. Subcontracting garbage collection and management, overseeing the use of public spaces and arbitring neighborhood land \"use\" disputes which is managed by the National Property office (\"Oficina de Bienes Nacionales\" in Spanish) is also controlled by the mayor's office. Water, electrical supply and public transportation coordination are handled by several Central Government's offices, and as such, are not under control of the mayor.\n\nMayors (\"maires\") in France are elected every six years in local elections.\n\nIn Germany local government is regulated by state statutes. Nowadays only the mayors of the three city-states (Berlin, Hamburg and Bremen) are still elected by the respective city-state parliaments. In all the other states the mayors are now elected directly by the EU citizens living in that area. The post of mayor may be said to be a professional one, the mayor being the head of the local government, and requiring, in order to be eligible, a training in administration. In big cities (details are regulated by state statutes) the official title is Oberbürgermeister (Lord Mayor). In these cities a \"simple\" mayor is just a deputy responsible for a distinct task (e.g., welfare or construction works). Big cities are usually kreisfrei (\"free of district\"). That means that the city council also has the powers and duties of a rural district council. The leader of a rural district council is called Landrat (\"land counsellor\"). In that case the chief mayor has also the duties and powers of a Landrat. The term Oberbürgermeister is not used in the three city-states, where the mayors are simultaneously head of state governments, but \"Regierender Bürgermeister\" (Governing Mayor of Berlin), \"Erster Bürgermeister\" (First Mayor of the city-state of Hamburg) and \"Präsident des Senats und Bürgermeister\" (President of the Senate and Mayor of Bremen) are used.\n\nMayors in Greece were elected every four years in local elections and are the head of various municipal governments in which the state is divided. Starting from 2014, mayors are elected for a 5-year term. Local administration elections for the new, consolidated municipalities and peripheries will henceforth be held together with the elections for the European Parliament.\n\nLocal administration in Greece recently underwent extensive reform in two phases: the first phase, implemented in 1997 and commonly called the \"Kapodistrias Project\", consolidated the country's numerous municipalities and communities down to approximately 1000. The second phase, initially called \"Kapodistrias II\" but eventually called the \"Callicrates Project\", was implemented in 2010, further consolidated municipalities down to 370, and merged the country's 54 prefectures into 13 peripheries. The Callicratean municipalities were designed according to several guidelines; for example each island (except Crete) was incorporated into a single municipality, while the majority of small towns were consolidated so as to have an average municipal population of 25,000.\n\nIn India, the mayor is leader of the council and has a number of roles, both legislative and functional. The legislative requirements are outlined in Section 73 and 73AA of Local Government Act 1989. In most Indian states mayors are elected indirectly among the council members themselves except in seven states Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand; where mayors are elected directly by the public.\n\nIn Indonesia, mayor (, formerly called \"walikotamadya\" and \"walikota\") is a regional head of a city or town. A mayor has the same level as a regent (), head of a regency (). Basically, a mayor has duties and authority to lead the implementation of the policies established by the region along with the city council (, DPRD Kota; formerly called Tier 2-DPRD (\"DPRD tingkat II\")). A mayor is elected in a pair with a vice mayor through direct elections and is a political office, except in Jakarta. There, mayoralty is a civil-service career position with limited authority and is designated by the Governor of Jakarta. Their region are called administration cities ().\n\nBefore 1999, there were administrative cities (, ) which were headed by administrative mayors.\n\nIn Iran, the mayor is the executive manager of city and elected by the Islamic City Council. The mayor is elected for a four-year term.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the head of a borough corporation was called \"mayor\" from the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Act 1840 until boroughs were abolished by the Local Government Reform Act 2014. The Local Government Act 2001 allowed county councils to style their chairperson as \"mayor\" and most do so. City council chairs are \"mayor\" (or \"lord mayor\" in the cases of Dublin and of Cork). Since 2000 there have been proposals for a directly elected mayor of the Dublin Metropolitan Area.\n\nIn Italy the mayor is called \"sindaco\", or informally \"primo cittadino\" (\"first citizen\"). Every municipality () has its mayor who represents the local government. The mayor is elected every five years by the inhabitants of the municipality, but he cannot be re-elected after two terms (except in small towns).\n\nJapan's Local-Autonomy Law of 1947 defines the structure of Japanese local governments, which were strengthened after World War II. It gives strong executive power to the mayor in the local politics like strong mayors in large cities in the United States of America.\nThe titles that are translated as \"mayor\" by the governments are those of the heads of cities , towns , villages , and Tokyo's special wards .\nA mayor is elected every four years by direct popular votes held separately from the assembly. A mayor can be recalled by a popular initiative but the prefectural and the national governments cannot remove a mayor from office. Towards the assembly the mayor prepares budgets, proposes local acts and has vetoes on local acts just approved by the assembly which can be overridden by two-thirds assembly support. A mayor can resolve the assembly if the assembly passes a motion of no confidence or if the mayor thinks the assembly has no confidence in fact.\n\nIn Kazakhstan, the mayor is called Akim who is the head of an akimat, a municipal, district, or provincial government (mayorat), and serves as the Presidential representative. Akims of provinces and cities are appointed to the post by the President on the advice of the Prime Minister. Meanwhile, the akims of other administrative and territorial units are appointed or selected to the post in an order defined by the President. He may also dismiss akims from their posts. Powers of akims ends with the introduction into the post of new-elected president of the republic. Thus, the akim continues to fulfill the duties before appointment of corresponding akim by the President of Kazakhstan.\n\nThe mayor functions as the head of the local government of the cities in Malaysia. To date, there are 14 officially-recognised cities in the country.\n\nIn cities which lie within the jurisdiction of any one of the 13 Malaysian states, the mayor is appointed by the state government. Kuala Lumpur, the country's capital, is a notable exception, as it forms part of the Federal Territories which come under the purview of the Malaysian federal government, via the Ministry of Federal Territories. Thus, the mayor of Kuala Lumpur is selected by, and subordinate to, the Minister of Federal Territories.\n\nFollowing the 2018 general election, which saw the country undergoing its first ever regime change, there have been calls to revive local government elections, which had been the practice in certain cities such as Kuala Lumpur, George Town, Ipoh and Melaka until their abolishment in 1965. The reinstatement of local government elections would lead to the mayoral position being elected, instead of being appointed as per the current system.\n\nIn Malta, the mayor (In Maltese: Sindku) is the leader of the majority party in the Local Council. The members of the Local Councils are directly elected and collectively serve as a basic form of local government.\n\nThe Mayor of the municipality in Moldova is elected for four years. In Chişinău, the last mayor elections had to be repeated three times, because of the low rate of participation.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the mayor (in ) is the leader of the municipal executives ('College van Burgemeester en Wethouders'). In the Netherlands, burgermeesters are \"de facto\" appointed by the national cabinet, \"de jure\" by the monarch. They preside both the municipal executive and the legislative ('gemeenteraad'). The title is sometimes translated as burgomaster, to emphasize the appointed, rather than elected, nature of the office. The appointment procedure was brought for discussion in the early 2000s (decade), as some of the political parties represented in parliament regarded the procedure as undemocratic. Generally, mayors in the Netherlands are selected from the established political parties. Alternatives proposed were direct election of the mayor by the people or appointment by the city council (\"gemeenteraad\"). A constitutional change to allow for this failed to pass the Senate in March 2005.\n\nMayors in Nepal are elected every Five years in the Local elections.\nMayors in New Zealand are elected every three years in the local body elections.\n\nIn Pakistan, a city is headed by the District Nazim (the word means \"supervisor\" in Urdu, but is sometimes translated as Mayor) and assisted by Naib Nazim who is also speaker of District Council. District Nazim is elected by the nazims of union councils, union councillors and by tehsil nazims, who themselves are elected directly by the votes of the local public. Council elections are held every four years.\n\nIn the Philippines, mayors () are the head of a municipality or a city, with the vice mayor as the second highest position in the city. They are elected every three years during the midterm and national elections, and they can serve until three terms of office. As of - September 2012, there are 1,635 mayors in the Philippines.\n\nMayors in Poland are directly elected by inhabitants of their respective municipality. The mayor is the sole chief of the executive branch of the municipality and he cannot serve on the municipal council (city council) or in the parliament. The mayor may appoint a deputy mayor if needed. In Poland, a mayor is called a \"burmistrz\" or, in towns with more than 100,000 inhabitants or other municipalities that traditionally use the title, \"prezydent\" (\"president\", for example \"President of Warsaw\", instead of \"Mayor of Warsaw\"). The equivalent title in a rural community (\"gmina\") is \"wójt\".\n\nThe mayor is elected for a four-year term concurrently with the four-year term of the municipal council, and his/her service is terminated at the end of the municipal council's term. Mayors cannot be dismissed by the municipal council, but they can be removed from the office by the citizens of their municipality in a referendum. A mayor can also be dismissed by the Prime Minister in case of persistent transgression of the law. Citizens having a criminal record cannot run for mayor, but only if sentenced for intentional offense ex officio.\n\nThe mayor manages the municipal estate, issues minor regulations, and incurs liabilities within limits set by the municipal council. The mayor presents a budget to the municipal council, that may then be amended by the council. After the municipal council passes the budget in a form of resolution, the mayor is responsible for its realization. The mayor is the head of the town hall and the register office (he/she may appoint deputies for these specific tasks). Mayors legally act as employers for all of the officials of the town hall. Mayors in Poland have wide administrative authority: the only official that he/she cannot appoint or dismiss is a city treasurer, who is appointed by a city council. Although mayors in Poland do not have veto power over city council resolutions, their position is relatively strong and should be classified as a mayor-council government.\n\nIn Portugal and many other Portuguese-speaking countries the mayor of a municipality is called the \"Presidente da Câmara Municipal\" (President of the Municipal Chamber).\n\nIn Romania the mayor of a commune, town or city is called \"primar\". He is elected for a period of four years. In carrying out his responsibilities he is assisted by an elected local council (\"consiliu local\"). Bucharest has a general mayor (\"primar general\") and six sector mayors (\"primar de sector\"), one for each sector. The responsibilities of the mayor and of the local council are defined by Law 215/2001 of the Romanian Parliament.\n\nIn Russia, the Мэр, from fr Maire (en transcription = \"Mer\" - not to be confused to the NATO OF-3 rank \"Майор\" - en: \"Major\"), is one of possible titles of the head of the administration of a city or municipality. This title is equivalent to that of the head of a Russian rural district. Exceptionally, the \"mer\" of Moscow, Saint-Petersburg and Sevastopol are equivalent to governors in Russia, since these three federal cities are equivalent to Russian federations.\n\nExcept for those just-named three large cities, the governance system of a Russian municipality (city, county, district or town) is subordinate to the representative council of the federation in which it is located. The \"mer\", is either directly elected in municipal elections (citywide referendum) or is elected by the members of the municipality's representative council. Election by council members is now more widespread because it better integrates with the Russian federal three-level vertical governance structure:\n\nThe typical term of office of a \"mer\" in Russia is four years. The \"mer's\" office administers all municipal services, public property, police and fire protection, and most public agencies, and enforces all local and state laws within a city or town.\n\nAccording to Medialogy, the \"mer\" of Novosibirsk, Edward Lokot', is mentioned in the media more than any other Russian mayor. The \"mer\" of Kazan, Il'sur Metshin, is the most popular in Russia, scoring 76 out of 100, according to the Russian People's Rating of \"Mers\".\n\nIn Serbia, the mayor is the head of the city or a town. He acts on behalf of the city, and performs an executive function. The position of the mayor of Belgrade is important as the capital city is the most important hub of economics, culture and science in Serbia. Furthermore, the post of the mayor of Belgrade is the third most important position in the government after the Prime Minister and President.\n\n\"Alcalde\" is the most common Spanish term for the mayor of a town or city. It is derived from the (), i.e., \"the (Sharia) judge,\" who often had administrative, as well as judicial, functions. Although the Castilian \"alcalde\" and the Andalusian \"qaḍi\" had slightly different attributes (the \"qaḍi\" oversaw an entire province, the \"alcalde\" only a municipality; the former was appointed by the ruler of the state but the latter was elected by the municipal council), the adoption of this term reflects how much Muslim society in the Iberian Peninsula influenced the Christian one in the early phases of the \"Reconquista\". As Spanish Christians took over an increasing part of the Peninsula, they adapted the Muslim systems and terminology for their own use.\n\nToday, it refers to the executive head of a municipal or local government, who usually does not have judicial functions. The word \"intendente\" is used in Argentina and Paraguay for the office that is analogous to a mayor.\n\nIn larger cities in Mexico, the chief executive is known as the \"presidente municipal\" or \"municipal president\".\n\nThe Swedish title \"borgmästare\" (burgomaster) was abolished in the court reform of 1971 when also the towns of Sweden were officially abolished. Since the middle of the 20th century, the municipal commissioner – the highest-ranking politician in each municipality – is informally titled \"mayor\" in English.\n\nThe function and title for mayor vary from one canton to another. Generally, the mayor presides an executive council of several members governing a municipality.\n\nThe title is:\n\nIn the Republic of China in Taiwan the mayor is the head of city's government and its city's council, which is in charge of legislative affairs. The mayor and city council are elected separately by the city's residents.\n\nMayors (Turkish:\"Belediye Başkanı\") in Turkey are elected by the municipal councill. As a rule, there are municipalities in all province centers and district centers as well as towns () which are actually villages with a population in excess of 2000. However beginning by 1983, a new level of municipality is introduced in Turkish administrative system. In big cities Metropolitan municipalities () are established. (See Metropolitan municipalities in Turkey) In a Metropolitan municipality there may be several district municipalities (hence mayors).\n\nIn Ukraine the title \"Mer\" was introduced for the position of the head of the municipal state administration in the federal cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. In the rest of the urban and rural settlements the position is unofficial and simply refers to the head of a local council who at the moment of such assignment cannot be affiliated with any party of the council.\n\nThe mayor is the leader in most United States municipalities (such as cities, townships, etc.). In the United States, there are several distinct types of mayors, depending on the system of local government. Under council-manager government, the mayor is a first among equals on the city council, which acts as a legislative body while executive functions are performed by the appointed manager. The mayor may chair the city council, but lacks any special legislative powers. The mayor and city council serve part-time, with day-to-day administration in the hands of a professional city manager. The system is most common among medium-sized cities from around 25,000 to several hundred thousand, usually rural and suburban municipalities.\n\nIn the second form, known as mayor-council government, the mayoralty and city council are separate offices. Under a \"strong mayor\" system, the mayor acts as an elected executive with the city council exercising legislative powers. They may select a chief administrative officer to oversee the different departments. This is the system used in most of the United States' large cities, primarily because mayors serve full-time and have a wide range of services that they oversee. In a \"weak mayor\" or \"ceremonial mayor\" system, the mayor has appointing power for department heads but is subject to checks by the city council, sharing both executive and legislative duties with the council. This is common for smaller cities, especially in New England. Charlotte, North Carolina and Minneapolis, Minnesota are two notable large cities with a ceremonial mayor.\n\nMany American mayors are styled \"His Honor\" or \"Her Honor\" while in office.\n\nIn several countries, where there is not local autonomy, mayors are often appointed by some branch of the federal or regional government. In some cities, subdivisions such as boroughs may have their own mayors; this is the case, for example, with the arrondissements of Paris, Montreal, and Mexico City. In Belgium, the capital, Brussels, is administratively one of the federation's three regions, and is the only city subdivided, without the other regions' provincial level, into 19 rather small municipalities, which each have an elected—formally appointed—Burgomaster (i.e., Mayor, responsible to his / her elected council); while Antwerp, the other major metropolitan area, has one large city (where the boroughs, former municipalities merged into it, elect a lower level, albeit with very limited competence) and several smaller surrounding municipalities, each under a normal Burgomaster as in Brussels.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, the Mayor (市長) may be the administrative head of any municipality, provincial, prefecture-level, or county-level. The Mayor is usually the most recognized official in cities, although the position is the second-highest-ranking official in charge after the local Communist Party Secretary. In principle, the Mayor (who also serves as the Deputy Communist Party Secretary of the city) is responsible for managing the city administration while the Communist Party Secretary is responsible for general policy and managing the party bureaucracy, but in practice the roles blur, frequently causing conflict.\n\nActing mayor is a temporary office created by the charter of some municipal governments.\n\nIn many cities and towns, the charter or some similar fundamental document provides that in the event of the death, illness, resignation, or removal from office of the incumbent mayor, another official will lead the municipality for a temporary period, which, depending on the jurisdiction, may be for a stated period of days or months until a special election can be held, or until the original end of the term to which the vacating mayor was elected.\n\nSome cities may also provide for a deputy mayor to be temporarily designated as \"acting mayor\" in the event that the incumbent mayor is temporarily unavailable, such as for health reasons or out-of-town travel, but still continues to hold the position and is expected to return to the duties of the office. In this latter capacity, the acting mayor's role is to ensure that city government business can continue in the regular mayor's absence, and the acting mayor is not deemed to have actually held the office of mayor.\n\nThe position of acting mayor is usually of considerably more importance in a mayor-council form of municipal government, where the mayor performs functions of day-to-day leadership, than it is in a council-manager form of government, where the city manager provides day-to-day leadership and the position of mayor is either a largely or entirely ceremonial one.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the mayor's successor is not considered to be an acting mayor but rather fully mayor in his or her own right, much in the manner that the Vice President of the United States is not styled or considered to be Acting President following the death or resignation of the President, but rather President in every sense.\n\n\nConcepts:\n\nLocal government:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32501935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32501935", "title": "Megaprojects and Risk", "text": "Megaprojects and Risk\n\nMegaprojects and Risk: An Anatomy of Ambition is a 2003 book by Bent Flyvbjerg, Nils Bruzelius, and Werner Rothengatter, published by Cambridge University Press. According to chief economist and director of transportation policy at Infrastructure Management\nGroup, Inc., Porter K. Wheeler, \"this book makes an important contribution to understanding the infrastructure development process worldwide, with focus on megaprojects.\"\n\n\"Megaprojects\" is the term applied to multibillion-dollar infrastructure developments such as massive dams and bridges, and to elaborate railways and highways. The \"megaprojects paradox\" is that more of these projects are being implemented, but such projects typically perform very poorly, often with substantial cost overruns and market shortfalls.\n\nChapters two to four examine the Channel Tunnel, which opened in 1994 at a cost of £4.7 billion following cost-overruns of 80% which caused several companies to nearly go bankrupt. Denver International Airport, which cost $5 billion, opened in 1995 following a 200% cost overrun, and passenger traffic in 1995 was only half that expected. There were also problems with Hong Kong's Chek Lap Kok Airport, opened in 1998, which had low revenues and negatively affected Hong Kong's economy.\n\nAccording to authors, the reason for these poor performances is that many of the participants in the process have incentives to underestimate costs, overestimate revenues, undervalue environmental impact, and overvalue economic development effects. The central problems are lack of accountability and inappropriate risk sharing which can be improved by reforming the institutional arrangements of decision making and to institute accountability at the project development and evaluation stages.\n\n"}
{"id": "7201014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7201014", "title": "Military Commissions Act of 2006", "text": "Military Commissions Act of 2006\n\nThe United States Military Commissions Act of 2006, also known as HR-6166, was an Act of Congress signed by President George W. Bush on October 17, 2006. The Act's stated purpose was \"to authorize trial by military commission for violations of the law of war, and for other purposes\".\n\nIt was drafted following the Supreme Court's decision on \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" (2006), which ruled that the Combatant Status Review Tribunals (CSRT), as established by the United States Department of Defense, were procedurally flawed and unconstitutional, and did not provide protections under the Geneva Conventions. It prohibited detainees who had been classified as enemy combatants or were awaiting hearings on their status from using habeas corpus to petition federal courts in challenges to their detention. All pending habeas corpus cases at the federal district court were stayed.\n\nIn \"Boumediene v. Bush\" (2008), the US Supreme Court held that section 7 of the MCA was unconstitutional because of its restrictions of detainee rights. It determined that detainees had the right to petition federal courts for habeas corpus challenges.\n\nThe term \"competent tribunal\" is not defined in the Act itself.\nIt is defined in the US Army Field Manual, section 27–10, for the purpose of determining whether a person is or is not entitled to prisoner of war status, and consists of a board of not less than three officers. It is also a term used in Article five of the third Geneva Convention. However, the rights guaranteed by the third Geneva Convention to lawful combatants are expressly denied to \"unlawful\" military combatants for the purposes of this Act by Section 948b (see above).\n\n\"Any alien unlawful enemy combatant is subject to trial by military commission under chapter 47A — Military Commissions (of the Military Commissions Act of 2006 (10 U.S.C. 948a (Section 1, Subchapter I))). The definition of unlawful and lawful enemy combatant is given in Chapter 47A—Military commission: Subchapter I--General provisions: Sec. 948a. Definitions\n\nThe Act also defines an alien as \"a person who is not a citizen of the United States\", and a co-belligerent to mean \"any State or armed force joining and directly engaged with the United States in hostilities or directly supporting hostilities against a common enemy.\"\n\nThe Act changes pre-existing law to forbid explicitly the invocation of the Geneva Conventions when executing the writ of habeas corpus or in other civil actions [Act sec. 5(a)]. This provision applies to all cases pending at the time the Act is enacted, as well as to all such future cases.\n\nIf the government chooses to bring a prosecution against the detainee, a military commission is convened for this purpose. The following rules are some of those established for trying alien unlawful enemy combatants.\n\n(b) NOTICE TO ACCUSED—Upon the swearing of the charges\nand specifications in accordance with subsection (a), the accused\nshall be informed of the charges against him as soon as practicable.\n\nThe Act also contains provisions (often referred to as the \"habeas provisions\") removing access to the courts for any alien detained by the United States government who is determined to be an enemy combatant, or who is 'awaiting determination' regarding enemy combatant status. This allows the United States government to detain such aliens indefinitely without prosecuting them in any manner.\n\nThese provisions are as follows:\n\nAmong other things, the MCA created the position of Chief Defense Counsel (United States).\n\nIn \"Boumediene v. Bush\" (2008), the US Supreme Court held that the MCA was unconstitutional as it restricted detainees' use of habeas corpus and access to the federal courts. It determined that detainees could have access to federal courts to hear habeas corpus petitions, to restore the protection of the Constitution.\n\nThe Military Commissions Act of 2009 amended some of the provisions of the 2006 Act to improve protections for defendants. The American Civil Liberties Union summarized the positive aspects as \"restricting coerced and hearsay evidence and providing greater defense counsel resources.\" Overall, it argued that the law as amended still fell \"short of providing the due process required by the Constitution.\"\n\nThere is a controversy over whether this law affects the rights of habeas corpus for United States citizens.\n\nThe text of the law states that its \"purpose\" is to \"establish procedures governing the use of military commissions to try alien unlawful enemy combatants engaged in hostilities against the United States for violations of the law of war and other offenses triable by military commission.\" While the most controversial provisions in the law refer to \"alien unlawful enemy combatants\", section 948a refers to \"unlawful enemy combatants\" (not explicitly excluding US citizens).\n\nCato Institute legal scholar Robert A. Levy writes that the Act denies habeas rights only to aliens, and that US citizens detained as \"unlawful combatants\" would still have habeas rights with which to challenge their indefinite detention. While formally opposed to the Act, Human Rights Watch has also concluded that the new law limits the scope of trials by military commissions to non-US citizens including all legal aliens. CBS legal commentator Andrew Cohen, commenting on this question, writes that the \"suspension of the writ of habeas corpus—the ability of an imprisoned person to challenge their confinement in court—applies only to resident aliens within the United States as well as other foreign nationals captured here and abroad\" and that \"it does not restrict the rights and freedoms and liberties of U.S. citizens than they already have been restricted.\"\n\nOn the other hand, congressman David Wu (D–OR) stated in the debate over the bill on the floor of the House of Representatives that \"by so restricting habeas corpus, this bill does not just apply to enemy aliens. It applies to all Americans because, while the provision on page 93 has the word \"alien in it, the provision on page 61 does not have the word alien in it.\" For more on this interpretation, see criticism.\n\nThe bill, , passed the Senate, 65–34, on September 28, 2006.\n\nThe bill passed in the House, 250–170–12, on September 29, 2006.\n\nBush signed the bill into law on October 17, 2006.\n\nSeveral amendments were proposed before final passage of the bill by the Senate; all were defeated. Among them were an amendment by Robert Byrd which would have added a sunset provision after five years, an amendment by Ted Kennedy directing the Secretary of State to notify other countries that the U.S. considered waterboarding and other enhanced interrogation techniques to be grave breaches of the Geneva Convention (SA.5088), and an amendment by Arlen Specter (R–PA) and Patrick Leahy (D–VT) preserving habeas corpus. The Kennedy amendment was defeated on separation of powers grounds although the Republican manager of the bill and chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Warner (R-VA), noted that he agreed with Sen. Kennedy that the techniques were grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions and \"clearly prohibited by the bill.\" Specter's amendment was rejected by a vote of 51–48. Specter voted for the bill despite the defeat of his amendment. The bill was finally passed by the House on September 29, 2006 and presented to the President for signing on October 10, 2006.\n\nSupporters of the act say that the Constitutional provision guaranteeing habeas corpus does not apply to alien enemy combatants engaged in hostilities against the United States, and that the provisions of the Act removing habeas corpus do not apply to United States citizens; they conclude that therefore the law does not conflict with the Constitution.\n\nNational Review columnist Andrew McCarthy argued that since the law applies to \"aliens with no immigration status who are captured and held outside the territorial jurisdiction of the United States, and whose only connection to our country is to wage a barbaric war against it\" they do not have a constitutional right to habeas corpus. McCarthy also wrote that the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, while not allowing a standard habeas corpus review, provides that each detainee \"has a right to appeal to our civilian-justice system. — specifically, to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. And if that appeal is unsuccessful, the terrorist may also seek certiorari review by the Supreme Court.\"\n\nJohn Yoo, a former Bush Administration Justice Department official and current professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley, called the Act a \"stinging rebuke\" of the Supreme Court's Hamdan v. Rumsfeld ruling, calling that ruling \"an unprecedented attempt by the court to rewrite the law of war and intrude into war policy.\" Yoo cited Johnson v. Eisentrager, in which the court decided that it would not hear habeas claims brought by alien enemy prisoners held outside the US and refused to interpret the Geneva Conventions to give rights in civilian court against the government.\n\nFormerly Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army Judge Advocate General's Corps and current professor at St. Mary's University School of Law, Jeffrey Addicott wrote \"the new Military Commissions Act reflects a clear and much-needed Congressional commitment to the war on terror, which to this point has been largely conducted in legal terms by the executive branch with occasional interjections from the judiciary\".\n\nGeorge W. Bush, President of the United States:\n\nJohn McCain, United States Senator:\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States ruled in \"Boumediene v. Bush\" (2008) that the MCA constituted an unconstitutional encroachment of \"habeas corpus\" rights, and established jurisdiction for federal courts to hear petitions for \"habeas\" corpus from Guantanamo detainees tried under the Act. As such, the provisions of MCA suspending \"Habeas Corpus\" are no longer in effect.\n\nA number of legal scholars and Congressional members—including Senator Arlen Specter, who was a Republican and the Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee—previously criticized the habeas provision of the Act as violating a clause of the Constitution that says the right to challenge detention \"shall not be suspended\" except in cases of \"rebellion or invasion\".\n\nIn the House debate, Representative David Wu of Oregon offered this scenario:\n\nFollowing debate in the House and Senate, the final law revoked \"Habeas Corpus\" protections only for non-citizens:\n\nHence in the preceding example, if Wu's wife, a citizen, were picked up outside a military base, Wu could walk across the street and file a \"habeas corpus\" petition with the courts. Since the Supreme Court in 2008 ruled the restrictions on \"habeas corpus\" provisions invalid, in \"Boumediene v. Bush\", non-citizens can also request the courts review the legality of their arrest and imprisonment.\n\nAccording to Bill Goodman, past Legal Director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, and Joanne Mariner, from FindLaw, this bill redefines unlawful enemy combatant in such a broad way that it refers to any person who is\n\nFrom Section 950q. Principals:\n\nThis makes it possible for US citizens to be designated unlawful enemy combatant because\n\nJennifer Van Bergen, a journalist with a law degree, responds to the comment that habeas corpus has never been afforded to foreign combatants with the suggestion that, using the current sweeping definition of war on terror and unlawful combatant, it is impossible to know where the battlefield is and who combatants are. Also, she notes that most of the detentions are already unlawful.\n\nThe Act also suggests that unlawful enemy combatant refers to any person\nSome commentators have interpreted this to mean that if the President says you are an enemy combatant, then you effectively are.\n\nOne Bush administration critic described the Act as \"the legalization of the José Padilla treatment\"—referring to the American citizen who was declared an unlawful enemy combatant and then imprisoned for three years before finally being charged with a lesser crime than was originally alleged. A legal brief filed on Padilla's behalf alleges that during his imprisonment Padilla was subjected to sensory deprivation, sleep deprivation, and enforced stress positions. He continues to be held by the United States and now has access to US courts.\n\nAnother criticism is that the Act violates the Constitution's prohibition against ex post facto laws. Pro human rights group Human Rights First stated that \"In violation of this fundamental tenet of the rule of law, defendants could be convicted for actions that were not illegal when they were taken.\" Joanne Mariner, an attorney who serves as the Terrorism and Counterterrorism Program Director at Human Rights Watch, described the issue this way:\n\nLaw professor John P. Cerone, the co-chair of the American Society of International Law Human Rights Interest Group, adds that the Act \"risks running afoul of the principle against ex post facto criminalization, as recognized in international law (article 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights) as well as US constitutional law.\"\n\nTwo provisions of the MCA have been criticized for allegedly making it harder to prosecute and convict officers and employees of the US government for misconduct in office.\n\nFirst, the MCA changed the definition of war crimes for which US government defendants can be prosecuted. Under the War Crimes Act of 1996, any violation of Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions was considered a war crime and could be criminally prosecuted. Section 6 of the Military Commissions Act amended the War Crimes Act so that only actions specifically defined as \"grave breaches\" of Common Article 3 could be the basis for a prosecution, and it made that definition retroactive to November 26, 1997. The specific actions defined in section 6 of the Military Commissions Act include torture, cruel or inhumane treatment, murder, mutilation or maiming, intentionally causing serious bodily harm, rape, sexual assault or abuse, and the taking of hostages. According to Mariner of Human Rights Watch, the effect is \"that perpetrators of several categories of what were war crimes at the time they were committed, can no longer be punished under U.S. law.\" The Center for Constitutional Rights adds:\n\nIn 2005, a provision of the Detainee Treatment Act (section 1004(a)) had created a new defense as well as a provision to providing counsel for agents involved in the detention and interrogation of individuals \"believed to be engaged in or associated with international terrorist activity\". The 2006 MCA amended section 1004(a) of the Detainee Treatment Act to guarantee free counsel in the event of civil or criminal prosecution and applied the above mentioned legal defense to prosecutions for conduct that occurred during the period September 11, 2001 to December 30, 2005. Although the provision recognizes the possibility of civil and or criminal proceedings, the Center for Constitutional Rights has criticised this claiming that \"The MCA retroactively immunizes some U.S. officials who have engaged in illegal actions which have been authorized by the Executive.\"\n\nAmnesty International said that the Act \"contravenes human rights principles.\" and an editorial in \"The New York Times\" described the Act as \"a tyrannical law that will be ranked with the low points in American democracy, our generation's version of the Alien and Sedition Acts,\" while American Civil Liberties Union Executive Director Anthony D. Romero said, \"The president can now, with the approval of Congress, indefinitely hold people without charge, take away protections against horrific abuse, put people on trial based on hearsay evidence, authorize trials that can sentence people to death based on testimony literally beaten out of witnesses, and slam shut the courthouse door for habeas petitions.\"\n\nJonathan Turley, professor of constitutional law at George Washington University, called the Military Commissions Act of 2006 \"a huge sea change for our democracy. The framers created a system where we did not have to rely on the good graces or good mood of the president. In fact, Madison said that he created a system essentially to be run by devils, where they could not do harm, because we didn't rely on their good motivations. Now we must.\"\n\nNat Hentoff opined in the \"Village Voice\" that\n\n\"conditions of confinement and a total lack of the due process that the Supreme Court ordered in Rasul v. Bush and Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\"\nmake US government officials culpable for war crimes.\n\nImmediately after Bush signed the Act into law, the U.S. Justice Department notified the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia that the Court no longer had jurisdiction over a combined \"habeas\" case that it had been considering since 2004. A notice dated the following day listed 196 other pending habeas cases for which it made the same claim.\n\nOn November 13, 2006, the Department of Justice asserted in a motion with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit that, according to the Act, Ali Saleh Kahlah al-Marri should be tried in a military tribunal as an enemy combatant rather than in a civilian court. The document begins with:\n\nPursuant to Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure and Local Rule 27(f), respondent-appellee Commander S.L. Wright respectfully moves this Court to remand this case to the district court with instructions to dismiss it for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. Respondent-appellee has conferred with counsel for petitioner-appellant, and they agree with the briefing schedule proposed below. As explained below, the Military Commissions Act of 2006 (MCA), Pub. L. No. 109-366 (see Attachment 1), which took effect on October 17, 2006, removes federal court jurisdiction over pending and future habeas corpus actions and any other actions filed by or on behalf of detained aliens determined by the United States to be enemy combatants, such as petitioner-appellant al- Marri, except as provided in Section 1005(e)(2) and (e)(3) of the Detainee Treatment Act (DTA). In plain terms, the MCA removes this Court's jurisdiction (as well as the district court's) over al-Marri's habeas action. Accordingly, the Court should dismiss this appeal for lack of jurisdiction and remand the case to the district court with instructions to dismiss the petition for lack of jurisdiction.\n\nOf the first three war crimes cases brought against Guantanamo Bay detainees under the MCA, one resulted in a plea bargain and the two others were dismissed on jurisdictional grounds.\n\nThe first person prosecuted under the MCA was David Matthew Hicks, an Australian. The outcome of his trial was prescribed by a pre-trial agreement negotiated between Hicks's defense counsel and the convening authority, Susan J. Crawford on March 26, 2007. The agreement stipulated an effective sentence of nine months in exchange for his guilty plea and compliance with other conditions. On March 31, 2007, the tribunal handed down a seven-year sentence, of which all but nine months was suspended, with the remainder to be served in Australia.\n\nOn June 4, 2007, in two separate cases, military tribunals dismissed charges against detainees who had been designated as \"enemy combatants\" but not as \"unlawful enemy combatants\". The first case was that of Omar Khadr, a Canadian who had been designated as an \"enemy combatant\" in 2004. Khadr was accused of throwing a grenade during a firefight in Afghanistan in 2002. Colonel Peter Brownback ruled that the military tribunals, created to deal with \"unlawful enemy combatants,\" had no jurisdiction over detainees who had been designated only as \"enemy combatants.\" He dismissed without prejudice all charges against Khadr. Also on June 4, Captain Keith J. Allred reached the same conclusion in the case of Salim Ahmed Hamdan.\n\nThe United States Department of Defense responded by stating: \"We believe that Congress intended to grant jurisdiction under the Military Commissions Act to individuals, like Mr. Khadr, who are being held as enemy combatants under existing C.S.R.T. procedures.\" That position was called \"dead wrong\" by Specter.\n\nOn December 13, 2006, Salim Ahmed Hamdan challenged the MCA's declination of habeas corpus to \"alien unlawful enemy combatants\" in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Judge James Robertson, who ruled in favor of Hamdan in the \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" case, refused to rule in favor of Hamdan in this case regarding habeas corpus, writing:\n\nThe Constitution does not provide alien enemy combatants detained at Guantanamo Bay with the constitutional right to file a petition for habeas corpus in our civilian courts, and thus Congress may regulate those combatants' access to the courts.\n\nIn April 2007, the Supreme Court declined to hear two cases challenging the MCA: \"Boumediene v. Bush\" and \"Al Odah v. United States\" On June 29, 2007, the court reversed that decision, releasing an order that expressed their intent to hear the challenge. The two cases have been consolidated into one. Oral arguments were heard on December 5, 2007. The decision, extending habeas corpus rights to alien unlawful enemy combatants but allowing the commissions to continue to prosecute war crimes, was handed down on June 12, 2008.\n\nEven though detainees now have the right to challenge the government's basis of their detention, that does not guarantee release as evidenced by the Dec 14th, 2009 ruling of U.S. District Judge Thomas F. Hogan who upheld continued detention of Musa'ab Al-Madhwani in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba even though the court determined that he was not a continuing threat, the government met its burden of proving he was a member of al-Qaeda.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26697419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26697419", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture, Regional Development and Environment (Moldova)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture, Regional Development and Environment (Moldova)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture, Regional Development and Environment of Moldova () is one of the nine ministries of the Government of Moldova.\n\nThe current Minister is Nicolae Ciubuc. \n\nIn 2017 as part of the government refom in Moldova, the Ministry of Construction and Regional Development was renamed to Ministry of Agriculture, Regional Development and Environment, absorbing the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, and the Ministry of Environment, becoming their legal successor.\n"}
{"id": "32583574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32583574", "title": "National Anti-Sweating League", "text": "National Anti-Sweating League\n\nThe National Anti-Sweating League is the name adopted by two groups of social reformers in Australia and Britain at the turn of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Both campaigned against the poor conditions endured by many workers in so-called sweatshops and called for a minimum wage.\n\nThe National Anti-Sweating League was inaugurated in Melbourne on 29 Jul 1895, with Rev. A. Gosman as president, Samuel Mauger as secretary, and Alfred Deakin as treasurer. Vida Goldstein was another member. Their efforts resulted in wage regulation via the Factory Act of 1896.\n\nThe National Anti-Sweating League was an all-party pressure group formed in 1906 with a 3-day conference in the Guildhall, London. 341 delegates representing (via trade unions) some two million workers attended. Notable members included Alfred George Gardiner, R. H. Tawney, Mary Reid Macarthur, and Lady Astor, while its first secretary was George Shann. As a result of the campaign, the Trade Boards Act 1909 was passed, with boards modelled on those in the state of Victoria, Australia, following the 1896 Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "22064774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22064774", "title": "National Park Service General Authorities Act", "text": "National Park Service General Authorities Act\n\nThe National Park Service General Authorities Act of 1970 is an amendment to the National Park Service Organic Act of 1916. The amendment included the following:\n\nCongress declares that the National Park Service, which began with establishment of Yellowstone National Park in 1872, has since grown to include superlative natural, historic, and recreation areas in every major region of the United States, its territories and island possessions; that these areas, though distinct in character, are united through their inter-related purposes and resources into one national park system as cumulative expressions of a single national heritage; that, individually and collectively, these areas derive increased national dignity and recognition of their superb environmental quality through their inclusion jointly with each other in one national park system preserved and managed for the benefit and inspiration of all the people of the United States; and that it is the purpose of this Act to include all such areas in the System and to clarify the authorities applicable to the system.\n\nBy this amendment, the Congress of the United States required the entire National Park System be managed as a whole, and not as constituent parts.\n\n"}
{"id": "23969179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23969179", "title": "National Party (Ireland, 2016)", "text": "National Party (Ireland, 2016)\n\nThe National Party () is an unregistered far-right nationalist political party in Ireland founded in November 2016.\n\nThe party was founded in 2016, by Justin Barrett as party president and James Reynolds as party vice president. The National Party had planned to hold its press launch in the Merrion Hotel in Dublin but the event was cancelled by the hotel, which refused to say why. The party's press release claimed they seek to espouse the \"true spirit of the Republic\".\n\nBarrett, from Tipperary, has a background in pro-life and anti-immigration politics, formerly being a leading figure in Youth Defence and campaigning against the Treaty of Nice. Barrett attracted controversy due to his participation in events in both Germany and Italy organised by controversial far right parties, the National Democratic Party and Forza Nuova, respectively, in the 1990s. Barrett has denied sharing their far right views and claimed he attended these events in his capacity as a pro-life campaigner. In 2016, in an interview where he overstated net migration to Ireland by a factor of three, he called his attendance at these meetings \"a mistake\".\n\nReynolds, from Longford, was the County Longford affiliate for Youth Defence in the early 1990s. He was associated with the Libertas Ireland political party in 2009, and campaigned for a no vote in the Fiscal Compact referendum in 2012 as chairman of the small \"Farmers for No\" group. Reynolds was previously the Longford county chairman of the Irish Farmers' Association, and national treasurer of the Irish Cattle and Sheep Farmers Association. He was suspended from the IFA in 2012 for bringing the county executive into disrepute. In March 2017 he secured a temporary High Court injunction preventing his dismissal as national treasurer of the ICSA, but the High Court upheld his dismissal from the role in June 2017.\nThe party held its first Ardfheis in November 2017, at Donald Trump's Doonbeg hotel in County Clare. Approximately fifty delegates attended. Justin Barrett criticised Fine Gael in his speech for not calling its annual conference an ardfheis. John Wilson, a guest speaker, challenged \"homophobic\" comments made by deputy leader James Reynolds. Barrett defended Reynolds' comments and reportedly answered in the affirmative when asked by Wilson whether the National Party was \"only for straight Irish people\". Wilson then walked out in protest at the comments.\n\nThe party held its second Ardfheis in County Fermanagh, at which Barrett spoke strongly in favour of a United Ireland in reaction to Brexit.\n\nAbortion Never was formed as a No campaign by the National Party in March 2018 to contest the Irish abortion referendum, 2018. Abortion Never presents itself as \"an Irish nationalist anti-abortion campaign.\" At the launch of the campaign, Barrett stated that if the abortion referendum passed, it would lead to euthanasia for the elderly; “It doesn’t just begin with abortion and stop there. It ends in euthanasia, because they already have a plan. You see discussions in the newspapers sometimes, ‘What are we going to do about the pensions crisis?’”. At the same event, he called for the abortion referendum campaign to be \"as divisive as possible\". During the course of the referendum campaign Barrett suggested that doctors who perform abortions should receive the death penalty. The referendum was ultimately approved by 66.4% of voters.\n\nDescriptions of the National Party in the press have ranged from it being right wing to far-right.\n\nThe party has a set of \"Nine Principles\", which espouse a nationalist, anti-abortion, Eurosceptic and anti-immigration platform. \nBarrett has called for a temporary ban on Muslims entering Ireland and for greater vetting efforts to be made, stating that \"all of them are potentially dangerous\", though he later clarified that he does not believe Ireland needs a complete ban on Muslims entering the country. The party also favours racial profiling. \n\nThe party supports a renegotiation of Ireland's relationship with the EU, including a withdrawal from the Eurozone, but does not support exiting the European Union itself. They have described the EU as \"dictatorial\".\n\nThe party makes an irredentist claim on Northern Ireland; the first of its \"nine principles\" is copied from the old Article 2 of the Irish Constitution: \"The National Party believes that the territory of Ireland consists of the whole island of Ireland, its islands and the territorial seas.\"\n\nIt advocates the reintroduction of the death penalty for \"particularly heinous crimes\".\n\nThe party opposes same-sex marriage, stating that it is \"against gay marriage, but not gay people\". In 2016 Barrett declared marriage equality a \"sham\" and \"not natural.\" \n\nThe party opposes allowing any law permitting abortion in Ireland, supports repeal of the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013, supports a reversal of the Supreme Court's judgement in the X Case (method unstated), and supported the retention of the Eighth Amendment. The party endorsed a No vote in the abortion referendum, and campaigned against it through the Abortion Never campaign.\n\nBarret has spoken in support of protectionist economics.\n\n"}
{"id": "4541513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4541513", "title": "National security of Bulgaria", "text": "National security of Bulgaria\n\nThis article covers national and international security issues in Bulgaria.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Bulgarian and international authorities recognized organized crime and corruption as grave ongoing problems exacerbated by Bulgaria’s geographic location along major international smuggling lines. In 2003 Bulgaria adopted a National Drugs Strategy for the period 2003–8, modeled on the European Union (EU) strategy. As of mid-2005, an interministerial anticorruption commission, established in 2002, had not reduced corruption to the satisfaction of the EU. Prosecution of organized crime figures, who are known to operate sophisticated networks in Bulgaria, has been rare. Domestic violence against women and organized trafficking in women are considered serious problems. However, between 2001 and 2004 the overall crime rate decreased.\n\n"}
{"id": "30145389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30145389", "title": "Opal Kunz", "text": "Opal Kunz\n\nOpal Kunz (November 6, 1894 – May 15, 1967) was an early American aviator, the chief organizer of the Betsy Ross Air Corps, and a charter member of the Ninety-Nines organization of women pilots. In 1930, she became the first woman pilot to race with men in an open competition. She made many public appearances to urge more women to take up flying. \n\nOpal Logan Giberson was born in 1894 or 1896 in Missouri to Edward F. Giberson and his wife. She graduated from Dana Hall School in Wellesley, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1923, she married mineralogist George Frederick Kunz (1856–1932). The marriage was annulled in 1929. The couple remained on good terms, with Kunz caring for George for the remainder of his life. On his death, he left her a substantial bequest.\n\nKunz earned her pilot's license in 1929. A crash two weeks later in New Jersey drew extensive press coverage; she escaped uninjured. A second crash two years later left her with gasoline burns. \n\nShe spent a great deal of time and money on her flying pursuits and always named her planes after Betsy Ross. On April 7, 1930, at the Philadelphia American Legion Benefit Air Meet, she became the first woman to race with men in open competition. She won the race. \n\nKunz gave frequent press interviews and radio addresses to urge more women to take up flying.\n\nIn 1929, Kunz participated in the first Women's Air Derby, later dubbed the \"Powder Puff Derby\" by humorist Will Rogers. At the time, there were only 70 licensed female pilots in the entire United States, and only 40 qualified to take part in this contest. The transcontinental course began in Santa Monica, California, and ended in Cleveland, Ohio. \n\nRace rules stipulated that the aircraft must have horsepower \"appropriate for a woman.\" Kunz was told her own 300-horsepower Beech Travel Air was too fast for a woman to handle and would not be allowed. Forced to borrow a less-powerful airplane in order to take part in the race, she finished eighth.\n\nOn September 7, 1930, Kunz loaned her plane to aviator John Donaldson at the American Legion Air Races meet in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Donaldson suffered fatal injuries when the airplane fell from a height of 1,800 feet straight down into the municipal airfield.\n\nKunz was an organizer of the Betsy Ross Air Corps, a paramilitary service formed to support to support the Army Air Corps (the precursor to the U.S. Air Force) in national defense and to serve as humanitarian \"air minutemen\" in times of emergency. It also had the goal of offering flight instruction to women in order to build a reserve group of women aviators. Kunz grew the corps to about 100 members, partially funding it herself. She served as the corps' first commander, and her husband designed its insignia. The short-lived corps (1931–1933) was never formally recognized by the U.S. military.\n\nAs World War II approached, Kunz began teaching aviation students at Arkansas State College. In 1942, she moved to Rhode Island, and at the start of World War II became an instructor at the Rhode Island state airport for Navy cadets and for the government-sponsored Civilian Pilot Training Program. She taught several hundred young men how to fly for the war effort. \n\nAfter the war, she became an inspector for the Aerojet Corporation in California. \n\nIn 1961, following after the historic space flight of the Russian cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin, she wrote to President John F. Kennedy to volunteer her services as an American astronaut. In honor of her extensive aviation experience, the president wrote her a courteous reply.\n\nKunz died at home in Auburn, California in 1967.\n"}
{"id": "54498885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54498885", "title": "Parti socialiste du Québec", "text": "Parti socialiste du Québec\n\nThe Parti socialiste du Québec (PSQ, English: \"Socialist Party of Quebec\") was a provincial party in Quebec. The PSQ was founded in November 1963 as the result of a split at the founding conference of the original New Democratic Party of Quebec, held in June 1963, over the issue of Quebec self-determination with Michel Chartrand, former leader of the Parti social démocratique du Québec, among the nationalists supporting self-determination.\n\nThe federalist NDP -Québec decided to concentrate its efforts on organizing for federal elections, leaving the more sovereigntist Parti Socialiste du Québec to work on the provincial level.\n\nWhile the party never managed to become an officially registered political party, it unofficially stood five candidates in the 1966 provincial election, by which time Chartrand had moved to a harder separatist position and joined the Rassemblement pour l'Indépendance Nationale, before dissolving in 1968, with many of its members joining the newly formed Parti Québécois (which was both separatist and social democratic), while others rejoined the NDPQ, which would begin to run candidates in provincial elections in 1970.\n\nThe PSQ published a journal titled \"Le Peuple\".\n\n"}
{"id": "194841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194841", "title": "Planned community", "text": "Planned community\n\nA planned community, planned city or planned town, is any community that was carefully planned from its inception and is typically constructed on previously undeveloped land. This contrasts with settlements that evolve in a more \"ad hoc\" fashion. Land use conflicts are less frequent in these communities. \n\nThe term \"new town\" refers to planned communities of the new towns movement in particular, mainly in the United Kingdom. It was also common in the European colonization of the Americas to build according to a plan either on fresh ground or on the ruins of earlier Native American villages.\n\nA planned capital is a city specially planned, designed and built to be a capital. Several of the world's national capitals are planned capitals, including Canberra in Australia, Brasília in Brazil, Belmopan in Belize, New Delhi in India, Abuja in Nigeria, Islamabad in Pakistan, Naypyidaw in Burma and Washington, D.C. in the United States, and the modern parts of Astana in Kazakhstan and Ankara in Turkey. In Egypt, a new capital city east of Cairo has been proposed. The federal administrative centre of Malaysia, Putrajaya, is also a planned city.\n\nAbu Dhabi (UAE) and some of the recently built cities in the Persian Gulf region are also planned cities, built on the money from the oil boom. Prior to the boom, these were just villages or towns.\n\nThe city of Gaborone was planned and constructed in the 1960s.\n\n\n\n\nIn 2012, President Teodoro Obiang decided to move the capital to a new jungle site at Oyala.\n\nKonza Technology City is a planned city that is hoped to become a hub of African science and technology upon its completion in 2030.\n\nThe capital, Abuja, is a planned city and was built mainly in the 1980s. Several other cities are under development to accommodate the rapidly growing population, some of which include: Eko Atlantic City, a planned city of Lagos State being constructed on land reclaimed from the Atlantic Ocean. Upon completion, the new city which is still under development is anticipating 250,000 residents and a daily flow of 150,000 commuters. Centenary City, in the Federal Capital Territory, is another planned smart city under development. The city is designed to become a major tourist attraction to the country. A list of Nigerian cities and neighbourhoods that went through a form of planning are as follows:\n\n\nA number of cities were set up during the apartheid-era for a variety of ethnic groups. Planned settlements set up for white inhabitants included Welkom, Sasolburg and Secunda. Additionally the majority of settlements in South Africa were planned in their early stages and the original town centres still lie in a grid street fashion. Some settlements were also set up for non-whites such as the former homeland capital of Bisho.\n\nNaypyidaw (, officially spelled Nay Pyi Taw and Naypyitaw; ) is the capital of Myanmar, also known as Burma. It is administered as the Naypyidaw Union Territory, as per the 2008 Constitution. On 6 November 2005, the administrative capital of Burma was officially moved to a greenfield 3.2 km west of Pyinmana, and approximately 300 km north of Yangon (Rangoon), the previous capital. The capital's official name was announced on 27 March 2006, Burmese Armed Forces Day. Much of the city was still under construction as late as 2012. As of 2009, the population was 925,000, which makes it Burma's third largest city, after Yangon and Mandalay.\n\n\n\nQuezon City was the planned city of President Manuel L. Quezon, who had earlier proposed a new city to be built on land northeast of the City of Manila. Carefully planned districts include Santa Mesa Heights (part of the original Burnham Plan for Manila), the Diliman Estate (includes the University of the Philippines), New Manila, the Cubao Commercial District, South Triangle, Housing Projects 1 (Roxas District), 2 and 3 (Quirino District), 4, 5 (Kamias-Kamuning District), 6, 7, and 8.\n\nPresident Elpidio Quirino proclaimed Quezon City as the national capital on 17 July 1948, with President Ferdinand Marcos restoring Manila as the capital on 24 June 1976. He then created a metropolitan area called Metro Manila, which remains congested today due to failed execution of the Quezon City plan as well as the Burnham Plan.\n\nOther planned cities (in order of foundation):\n\nThe new town planning concept was introduced into Singapore with the building of the first New Town, Queenstown, from July 1952 to 1973 by the country's public housing authority, the Housing and Development Board. Today, the vast majority of the approximately 11,000 public housing buildings are organised into 22 new towns across the country.\n\nEach new town is designed to be completely self-sustainable. Helmed by a hierarchy of commercial developments, ranging from a town centre to precinct-level outlets, there is no need to venture out of town to meet the most common needs of residences. Employment can be found in industrial estates located within several towns. Educational, health care, and recreational needs are also taken care of with the provision of schools, hospitals, parks, sports complexes, and so on.\n\nSingapore's expertise in successful new town design was internationally recognised when the Building and Social Housing Foundation (BSHF) of the United Nations awarded the World Habitat Award to Tampines New Town, which was selected as a representative of Singapore's new towns, on 5 October 1992.\n\nIn the period of the Persian Safavid Empire, Isfahan, the Persian capital, was built according to a planned scheme, consisting of a long boulevard and planned housing and green areas around it.\n\nIn modern-day Iran more than 20 planned cities have been developed or are under construction, mostly around Iran's main metropolitan areas such as Tehran, Isfahan, Shiraz and Tabriz. Some of these new cities are built for special purposes such as:\n\n576,000 people were planned to be settled in Iran's new towns by the year 2005.\n\nFor a list of Iran's modern planned cities see: List of Iran's planned cities.\n\nAccording to politics of country settlement a number of planned cities were created in peripheral regions. Those cities also known as \"Development Towns\". The most successful is Ashdod with more than 200,000 inhabitants, a port and developed infrastructure. Other cities that were developed following Israel's lineation plan are Shoham, Karmiel and Arad. Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut has been another of the country's most successful planned cities. Construction began in 1994 and it now has a population of over 80,000. Modi'in also rates higher in terms of average salary and graduation rates than the national average. It was designed and planned by Israeli architect Moshe Safdie. Many Israeli settlements follow this model, including towns like Modi'in Illit and Betar Illit.\n\n\nKing Abdullah Economic City, a future planned city along the Red Sea located in Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn 1975, Jubail Industrial City, also known as Jubail, was designated as a new industrial city by the Saudi government. It provides 50% of the country's drinking water through desalination of the water from the Persian Gulf.\n\n\nThe city of Kyoto was developed as a planned city in 794 as a new imperial capital (then called Heian-kyō), built on a grid layout modeled after the Tang dynasty capital of Chang'an (modern day Xi'an), and remained the capital for over a millennium. The grid layout remains, reflected in major east-west streets being numbered, such as . In modern times, Sapporo was built from 1868, following an American grid plan, and is today the fifth-largest city in Japan. Both these cities have regular addressing systems (following the grid) unlike the usual subdivision-based Japanese addressing system.\nBorrowing from the New Town movement in the United Kingdom, some 30 new towns have been built all over Japan. Most of these constructions were initiated during the period of rapid economic growth in the 1960s, but construction continued into the 1980s. Most of them are located near Tokyo and the Kansai region. Some towns, (Senri New Town, Tama New Town) do not provide much employment, and many of the residents commute to the nearby city. These towns fostered the infamous congestion of commuter trains (although as the metropolitan areas have grown, this commute has become relatively short in comparison to commutes from the new urban fringe).\n\nOther New Towns act as industrial/academic agglomerations (\"sangyo-shuseki\") (Tsukuba Science City, Kashima Port Town). These areas attempt to create an all-inclusive environment for daily living, in accordance with Uzō Nishiyama's \"life-spheres\" principle.\n\nJapan has also developed the concept of new towns to what Manuel Castells and Sir Peter Hall call technopolis. The technopolis program of the 1980s has precedents in the New Industrial Cities Act of the 1960s. These cities are largely modeled after Tsukuba Academic New Town (Tsukuba Science City) in that they attempt to agglomerate high-tech resources together in a campus-like environment.\n\nIn the past, the Japanese government had proposed relocating the capital to a planned city, but this plan was cancelled.\n\nOverall, Japan's New Town program consists of many diverse projects, most of which focus on a primary function, but also aspire to create an all-inclusive urban environment. Japan's New Town program is heavily informed by the Anglo-American Garden City tradition, American neighborhood design, as well as Soviet strategies of industrial development.\n\nIn 2002 Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi announced the end of new town construction, although the new towns continue to receive government funding and redevelopment.\n\nSources:\n\nMany ancient cities in China, especially those on the North China Plain, were carefully designed according to the fengshui theory, featuring square or rectangular city walls, rectilinear road grid, and symmetrical layout. Famous examples are Chang'an in Tang Dynasty and Beijing.\n\nAn exception to that is an ancient town in Tekes County, Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture, Xinjiang, with a shape of a ba gua.\n\nIn modern China, many special economic zones are developed from the sketch, for example, Pudong, a new district of Shanghai.\n\nThe terrains of Hong Kong are mostly mountainous and many places in the New Territories have limited access to roads. Hong Kong started developing new towns in the 1950s, to accommodate rapidly growing populations. In the early days the term \"satellite towns\" was used. The very first new towns included Tsuen Wan and Kwun Tong. Wah Fu Estate was built in a remote corner on Hong Kong Island, with similar concepts in a smaller scale.\n\nIn the late 1960s and the 1970s, another stage of new town developments was launched. Nine new towns have been developed to date. Land use is carefully planned and development provides plenty of room for public housing projects. Rail transport is usually available at a later stage. The first towns are Sha Tin, Tsuen Wan, Tuen Mun and Tseung Kwan O. Tuen Mun was intended to be self-reliant, but was not successful at the beginning and maintained as a dormitory town up until the recent decades like the other new towns. More recent developments are Tin Shui Wai and North Lantau. The government also plans to build such towns in Hung Shui Kiu, Ping Che-Ta Kwu Ling, Fanling North and Kwu Tung North. At present, there are a total of nine new towns:\n\n\nNew Songdo City is a planned international business centre to be developed on 6 square kilometres of reclaimed land along Incheon's waterfront, 65 kilometres west of Seoul and connected to Incheon International Airport by a 10 kilometre highway bridge. This 10-year development project is estimated to cost in excess of $40 billion, making it the largest private development project ever undertaken anywhere in the world.\n\nGwanggyo newtown is located 25 km south away from Seoul in Suwon city and Youngin city, Gyeonggi province. Gwanggyo newtown area 11 square kilometers was designated in 2004 by Gyeonggi Province, Suwon city, Youngin city, and Gyeonggi Development Corporation (GICO). It will accommodate more than 31,000 households. Gwanggyo newtown was not only for the housing supply but also for several regional goals such as provincial office movement, convention center building, and creating economic growth core in Gyeonggi provincial area. Its infrastructure was scheduled to be constructed by 2012.\n\nSince the 1990s, several planned communities were built in the Seoul Metropolitan Area to alleviate housing demands in Seoul. They include:\n\nSince 2007 Sejong City was planned as the new capital, but it is becoming a research hub instead, with many national research institutes moving there between 2013 and 2015. It has a planned population of 0.8 million, which is the largest of all the newtown development plans.\n\nAn urban culture is evident in the mature phase of Indus Valley Civilization which thrived in present-day Pakistan and north western India from around 3300 BC. The quality of municipal city planning suggests knowledge of urban planning and efficient municipal governments which placed a high priority on hygiene. The streets of major cities in present-day Pakistan such as Mohenjo-daro and Harappa, the world's earliest planned cities, were laid out in a perfect grid pattern comparable to that of present-day New York City. The houses were protected from noise, odours, and thieves.\n\nAs seen in the ancient sites of Harappa and Mohenjo-daro in Pakistan and western border of India, this urban plan included the world's first urban sanitation systems. Within the city, individual homes or groups of homes obtained water from wells. From a room that appears to have been set aside for bathing, waste water was directed to covered drains, which lined the major streets. Houses opened only to inner courtyards and smaller lanes.\n\nThe ancient Indus systems of sewage and drainage that were developed and used in cities throughout the Indus Valley were far more advanced than any found in contemporary urban sites in the Middle East and even more efficient than those in some areas of modern South Asia today. The advanced architecture of the Harappans is shown by their dockyards, granaries, warehouses, brick platforms, and protective walls.\n\nA number of medieval Indian cities were planned including:\n\n\nThe period following independence saw India being defined into smaller geographical regions. New states such as Gujarat were formed with planned capital cities.\nThe major planned cities of India include:\n\n\nNew settlements were planned in Europe at least since Greek antiquity (see article Urban planning). The Greeks built new colonial cities around the Mediterranean. The ancient Romans also founded many new colonial towns through their empire. There are, however, also traces of planned settlements of non-Roman origin in pre-historic northern Europe. Most planned settlements of medieval Europe were created in the period of about the 12th to 14th centuries. All kinds of landlords, from the highest to the lowest rank, tried to found new villages and towns on their estates, in order to gain economical, political or military power. The settlers generally were attracted by fiscal, economical and juridical advantages granted by the founding lord, or were forced to move from elsewhere from his estates. Most of the new towns were to remain rather small (as for instance the bastides of southwestern France), but some of them became important cities, such as Cardiff, Leeds, 's-Hertogenbosch, Montauban, Bilbao, Malmö, Lübeck, Munich, Berlin, Bern, Klagenfurt, Alessandria, Warsaw and Sarajevo.\n\nThe Romans built a large number of towns throughout their empire, often as colonies for the settlement of citizens or veterans. These were generally characterised by a grid of streets and a planned water-supply; and many modern European towns of originally Roman foundation still retain part of the original street-grid.\n\nLouvain-la-Neuve, built for the Université Catholique de Louvain.\n\n\nThe cities of Stara Zagora and Kazanlak, in central Bulgaria, were rebuilt as planned cities after they were burnt to the ground in the 1877–1878 Russo-Turkish War. Also the city of Dimitrovgrad in south Bulgaria, that was planned as a key industrial and infrastructure center.\n\nČervar-Porat is a resort town in western Croatia, located on the east coast of the Adriatic Sea on the Červar lagoon. It was built as planned town in the 1970s, although the area was inhabited in Roman times. During the War of Independence it was used as a camp for refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Vukovar. It was planned to house 6500 people.\n\nRaša in Istria was built as a \"new town\" during 1936–1937 as part of Mussolini's urban colonization of Istria and other Italian territories.\n\nThe capital of Zagreb underwent major expansion during the 1960s. By that time, the city's official boundary was the river Sava, since nothing was built over it. After a flood in the 1960s, many residents were moved and some other districts were created for the residents, such as Dubrava, which was the interconnection between the Zagreb's old part and Sesvete. During the 1960s and 1970s, a planned part of Zagreb, Novi Zagreb (\"New Zagreb\"), was constructed, which lied on the other, uninhabited part of the river Sava, and is now one of major districts consisting of purely residential buildings and blocks. It is still under expansion and some new landmarks were built in it, the most famous one is the recent one, Arena Zagreb, built in 2008.\n\nPoruba and Havířov were established in the 1950s as new satellite residential towns for workers of coal-mining, steel-mill and other heavy-industry complex in the Ostrava region. \n\nPrague was extended by large housing estates – \"new towns\" in the 1970s and 1980s: Severní Město (Northern Town), Jižní Město (Southern Town), Jihozápadní Město (South-Western Town) were the largest, with population around 100.000 each. Their remote position to the city centre was compensated for by underground lines constructed usually a decade after the completion of the housing projects. A new housing estate called Západní Město (Western Town) is currently (2017) partly under construction (Britská čtvrť) and partly in planning stage.\n\nFredericia was designed as a combination of town and military fortress following the devastation caused by the Thirty Years' War. More recent examples are Græse Bakkeby in North Zealand, and Ørestad, planned and built to strengthen development in the Copenhagen/Malmö region. The suburb Albertslund was also built from scratch in the 1970s, merging the two villages Vridsløselille and Herstedvester.\n\nIn 2017, plans for a new 20,000-inhabitant town outside Frederikssund called Vinge were approved by the Danish authorities.\n\nThe city of Helsinki, previously a town of 5,000 inhabitants, was made the capital of the new Grand Duchy of Finland in 1812 by decree of Alexander I, Emperor of Russia. The city center was rebuilt with the lead of the German architect Carl Ludvig Engel.\n\nHowever, the last city in Finland that was ordered to be built on a previously completely uninhabited land was Raahe, founded by governor general Per Brahe the Younger in 1649.\n\nFinland also has various \"ekokylä\" communities or \"ecological villages\". For example, Tapiola is a post-war garden city on the edge of Espoo.\n\nThe city of Vaasa was rebuilt about seven kilometers northwest of its original location in 1862, after a fire which destroyed the city in 1852. The new town was planned by Carl Axel Setterberg. The disastrous consequences of the fire were considered as the design included five broad avenues which divided the town into sections and each block was divided by alleys.\n\nHamina is an old Finnish Eastern trade capital, founded during the Swedish reign. The star-shaped fortress and the circular town plan are based on an Italian Renaissance fortress concept from the 16th century.\n\nMany new cities, called bastides, were founded from the 12th to 14th centuries in southwestern France, where the Hundred Years War took place, in order to replace destroyed cities and organize defence and growth. Among those, Monpazier, Beaumont, and Villeréal are good examples.\n\nIn 1517, the construction of Le Havre was ordered by Francis I of France as a new port. It was completely destroyed during the Second World War and was entirely rebuilt in a modernist style, during the Trente Glorieuses, the thirty-year period from 1945 to 1975.\n\nCardinal Richelieu founded the small Baroque town of Richelieu, which remains largely unchanged.\n\nA program of new towns (French \"\") was developed in the mid-1960s to try to control the expansion of cities. Nine \"villes nouvelles\" were created.\n\nLa Défense, in the greater Paris area, could also be considered a planned town, though it was not built all at once but in successive stages beginning in the 1950s.\n\nPlanned cities in Germany are:\n\nWelthauptstadt Germania was the projected renewal of Berlin as a planned city, although only a small portion was constructed between 1937 and 1943.\n\nAfter World War II, several expellee towns were built like Espelkamp, Neutraubling and Traunreut.\n\nPlanned cities in Greece are:\n\nAll Hungarian planned cities were built in the second half of the 20th century when a program of rapid industrialization was implemented by the communist government.\n\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland the term \"new town\" is often used to refer to planned towns built after World War II which were discussed as early as 1941. The term \"new town\" in Ireland was also used for some earlier developments, notably during the Georgian era. Part of Limerick city was built in a planned fashion as \"Newtown Pery\".\n\nIn 1961 the first new town of Shannon was commenced and a target of 6,000 inhabitants was set. This has since been exceeded. Shannon is of some regional importance today as an economic centre (with the Shannon Free Zone and Shannon Airport), but until recently failed to expand in population as anticipated. Since the late 1990s, and particularly in the early 2000s, the population has been expanding at a much faster rate, with town rejuvenation, new retail and entertainment facilities and many new housing developments.\n\nIt was not until 1967 that the Wright Report planned four towns in County Dublin. These were Blanchardstown, Clondalkin, Lucan and Tallaght but in actuality this was reduced to Blanchardstown, Lucan-Clondalkin and Tallaght. These areas had previously contained small semi-rural villages on the edge of the city of Dublin, but were greatly expanded throughout the 1970s. Each of these towns has approximately 50,000 inhabitants today.\n\nThe most recent new town in Ireland is Adamstown in County Dublin. Building commenced in 2005 and it is anticipated that occupation will commence late in 2006 with the main development of 10,500 units being completed within a ten-year timescale.\n\nIn the past centuries several new towns have been planned in Italy. One of the most famous is Pienza, close to Siena, a Renaissance city, also called The Ideal Town or Utopia Town. Between 1459 and 1462 the most famous architects of Italy worked there for the Pope Pius II and built the city centre of the small town.\n\nAnother example of renaissance planned cities is the walled star city of Palmanova. It is a derivative of ideal circular cities, notable Filarete's imaginary Sforzinda.\n\nIn early 20th century, during the fascist government of Benito Mussolini, many new cities were founded, the most prominent being Littoria (renamed Latina after the fall of the Fascism). The city was inaugurated on 18 December 1932. Littoria was populated with immigrants coming from Northern Italy, mainly from Friuli and Veneto.\n\nThe great Sicilian earthquake of 1693 forced the complete rebuilding on new plans of many towns.\n\nOther well-known new cities are located close to Milan in the metropolitan area. Crespi d'Adda, a few kilometres east of Milan along the Adda River, was settled by the Crespi family. It was the first Ideal Worker's City in Italy, built close to the cotton factory. Today Crespi d'Adda is part of the Unesco World Heritage List. Cusano Milanino was settled in the first years of the 20th century in the formerly small town of Cusano. It was built as a new green city, rich in parks, villas, large boulevards and called Milanino (Little Milan). In the 1970s in the eastern metropolitan area of Milan a new city was built by Silvio Berlusconi. It is called Milano Due. It is a garden city designed for families of the upper middle class, with peculiarity of having pedestrian paths completely free of traffic. In the 1980s another two similar cities were built by Berlusconi, Milano 3 and Milano Visconti. Each of them has around 12,000 inhabitants.\n\nIn 1961 Elektrėnai was established as planned city for workers in Elektrėnai Power Plant and in 1975 Visaginas was established as planned city for workers in Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant.\n\nThe Municipality of Aerodrom within the City of Skopje is a planned community.\n\n\nOne province of the Netherlands, Flevoland (pop. 370,000 (2006)), was reclaimed from the Zuiderzee (Southern Sea). After a flood in 1916, it was decided that the Zuiderzee, an inland sea within the Netherlands, would be closed and reclaimed. In 1932, a causeway (the Afsluitdijk) was completed, which closed off the sea completely. The Zuiderzee was subsequently called IJsselmeer (IJssel-lake) and its previously salty water became fresh.\n\nThe first part of the new lake that was reclaimed was the Noordoostpolder (Northeast polder). This new land included, among others, the former island of Urk and it was included with the province of Overijssel. After this, other parts were also reclaimed: the eastern part in 1957 (Oost-Flevoland) and the southern part (Zuid-Flevoland) in 1968. The municipalities on the three parts voted to become a separate province, which happened in 1986. The capital of Flevoland is Lelystad, but the biggest city is Almere (pop. 183,500 in February 2008). Apart from these two larger cities, several 'New Villages' were built. In the Noordoostpolder the central town of Emmeloord is surrounded by ten villages, all on cycling distance from Emmeloord since that was the most popular way of transport in the 1940s (and it's still very popular). Most noteworthy of these villages is Nagele which was designed by famous modern architects of the time, Gerrit Rietveld, Aldo van Eyck, Willem Wissing and Jaap Bakema among them. The other villages were built in a more traditional/vernacular style. In the more recent Flevolandpolders four more 'New Villages' were built. Initially more villages were planned, but the introduction of cars made fewer but larger villages possible.\n\nNew towns outside Flevoland are Hoofddorp and IJmuiden near Amsterdam, Hellevoetsluis and Spijkenisse near Rotterdam and the navy port Den Helder.\n\nThe cities of Almere, Capelle aan den IJssel, Haarlemmermeer (also a reclaimed polder, 19th century), Nieuwegein, Purmerend and Zoetermeer are members of the European New Town Platform.\n\n\nFour cities stand out as examples of planned communities in Poland: Zamość, Gdynia, Tychy and Nowa Huta. Their very diverse layouts are the result of the different aesthetics that were held as ideal during the development of each of these planned communities. Planned cities in Poland have a long history and fall primarily into three time periods during which planned towns developed in Poland and its neighbors that once comprised the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. These are the Nobleman's Republic (16th to 18th centuries), the interwar period (1918–1939) and Socialist Realism (1944–1956).\n\nThe extreme opulence that Poland's nobility enjoyed during the Renaissance left Poland's elites with not only obscene amounts of money to spend, but also motivated them to find new ways to invest their hefty fortunes out of the grasp of the Royal Treasury. Jan Zamoyski founded the city of Zamość in order to circumvent royal tariffs and duties while also serving as the capital for his mini-state. Zamość was planned by the renowned Paduan architect Bernardo Morando and modeled on Renaissance theories of the 'ideal city'. Realizing the importance of trade, Zamoyski issued special location charters for representatives of peoples traditionally engaged in trade, i.e. to Greeks, Armenians and Sephardic Jews and secured exemptions on taxes, customs duties and tolls, which contributed to its fast development. Zamoyski's success with Zamość spawned numerous other Polish nobles to found their own \"private\" cities such as Białystok and many of these towns survive today, while Zamość was added to the UN World Heritage list in 1992 and is today considered one of the most precious urban complexes in Europe and in the world.\n\nThe preeminent example of a planned community in interwar Poland is Gdynia. After World War I when Poland regained its independence it lacked a commercial seaport (\"De iure\" Poles could use Gdańsk, which was the main port of the country before the War and is again today, but \"de facto\" the Germans residing in the city made it almost impossible for them), making it necessary to build one from scratch. The extensive and modern seaport facilities in Gdynia, the most modern and extensive port facilities in Europe at the time, became Poland's central port on the Baltic Sea. In the shadow of the port, the city took shape mirroring in its scope the rapid development of 19th-century Chicago, growing from a small fishing village of 1,300 in 1921 into a full blown city with a population over 126,000 less than 20 years later. The Central Business District that developed in Gdynia is a showcase of Art Deco and Modernist architectural styles and predominate much of the cityscape. There are also villas, particularly in the city's villa districts such as Kamienna Góra where Historicism inspired Neo-Renaissance and Neo-Baroque architecture.\n\nAfter the destruction of most Polish cities in World War II, the Communist regime that took power in Poland sought to bring about architecture that was in line with its vision of society. Thus urban complexes arose that reflected the ideals of socialist realism. This can be seen in districts of Polish cities such as Warsaw's MDM. The City of Nowa Huta (now a district of Kraków) and Tychy were built as the epitome of the proletarian future of Poland.\n\nVila Real de Santo António was built after the 1755 Lisbon earthquake, on the same model that was used for rebuilding Lisbon, Portugal's capital city (also destroyed in the earthquake), and on a similar orthogonal plan.\n\nThe cities of Brăila, Giurgiu and Turnu Severin were rebuilt, according to new plans, in the first part of the 19th century and the cities of Alexandria and Călărași were built completely new the same time.\nThe city of Victoria, located in the Braşov County, was built by the communist government in the beginning of the second half of the 20th century.\n\n\nNovi Beograd, meaning \"New Belgrade\" in Serbian, is a municipality of the city of Belgrade, built on a previously undeveloped area on the left bank of the Sava river. The first development began in 1947, the municipality has since expanded significantly and become the fastest developing region in Serbia.\n\nDrvengrad, meaning \"Wooden Town\" in Serbian, is a traditional village that the Serbian film director Emir Kusturica had built for his film \"Life Is a Miracle\". It is located in the Zlatibor District near the city of Užice, two hundred kilometers southwest of Serbia's capital, Belgrade. It is located near Mokra Gora and Višegrad.\n\n\nNova Gorica, built after 1947 immediately to the east of the new border with Italy, in which the town of Gorizia remained.\n\nDuring the 16th and 17th centuries, the population of Spain declined due to emigration to the Americas and later kings and governments made efforts to repopulate the country. In the second half of the 18th century, King Charles III implemented the so-called New Settlements (Nuevas Poblaciones) plan which would bring 10,000 immigrants from central Europe to the region of Sierra Morena. Pablo de Olavide was appointed superintendent and about forty new settlements were established of which the most notable was La Carolina, which has a perfectly rectangular grid design.\n\nLater kings and repopulation efforts led to the creation of more settlements, also with rectangular grid plans. One of them was the town of La Isabela (40.4295 N, 2.6876 W), which disappeared in the 1950s submerged under the waters of the newly created artificial lake of Buendía but is still visible just under the water in satellite imagery.\n\nUnder Francisco Franco, the Instituto Nacional de Colonización (National Institute of Colonization) built a great number of towns and villages.\n\nTres Cantos, near Madrid, is a good example of a successful new town design in Spain. It was built in the 1970s.\n\nNewer additional sections of large cities are often newly planned as is the case of the Salamanca district or Ciudad Lineal in Madrid or the Eixample in Barcelona.\n\nGothenburg was planned and built as a major fortified city from nothing from 1621.\n\nKarlskrona was also planned and built as a major city and naval base from nothing, beginning 1680.\n\nVällingby, a suburb, is an example of a new town in Sweden from after 1950.\n\nKiruna was built because of the large mine, from 1898.\n\nArvika was also a planned city, in 1811.\n\nMost old planned cities have grown far outside the original planned areas. The new areas were usually (but not always) also planned, but later and separately. Majorna is a near suburb of Gothenburg that was not planned, but grew more ad-hoc, with irregular curvy streets following the topography.\n\nSome parts of the biggest city, Istanbul, being re-developed and re-planned.\n\nThe capital, Ankara, was built by a plan and is constantly re-planned.\n\nAtça, Aydın was burned down by Greek forces in the Turkish Independence War. The rebuilding plan was based on Paris' plan.\n\nSome other cities including; Erzincan, Karabük, Kars, Kayseri, Konya were also planned.\n\nOdesa was built as a planned city according to 18th-century plans by the Flemish engineer Franz de Wollant (also known as François Sainte de Wollant). The same engineer also planned the following municipalities in Ukraine in the late 18th century:\n\nHorishni Plavni, founded in the 1960 as \"Komsomolsk\", is the most prosperous planned city in Ukraine, depending on the internationally important iron ore mining business.\n\nPrypiat is another new city in Ukraine built in 1970. The city was abandoned on 27 April 1986 after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. On 26 April the city had 50,000 habitants, the majority working at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Now the abandoned town is highly contaminated by radiation. Most of the Prypiat's former inhabitants were resettled to Slavutych which was planned and built for that purpose.\n\nThe Romans planned many towns in Britain, but the settlements were changed out of all recognition in subsequent centuries. The town of Winchelsea is said to be the first post-Roman new town in Britain, constructed to a grid system under the instructions of King Edward I in 1280, and largely completed by 1292. Another claimant to the title is Salisbury, established in the early 13th century by the then Bishop of Sarum. The best known pre-20th-century new town in the UK was undoubtedly the Edinburgh New Town, built in accordance with a 1766 master plan by James Craig, and (along with Bath and Dublin) the archetype of the elegant Georgian style of British architecture.\n\nThe term \"new town\" often refers in the UK to towns built after World War II under the New Towns Act 1946. These were influenced by the garden city movement, launched around 1900 by Ebenezer Howard and Sir Patrick Geddes and the work of Raymond Unwin, and manifested at Letchworth Garden City and Welwyn Garden City in Hertfordshire.\n\nFollowing World War II, some 28 projected towns were designated as New Towns under the 1946 Act, and were developed partly to house the large numbers of people whose homes had been destroyed by bombing during the war and partly to move parts of the population out of (mainly Victorian) urban slums. New Towns policy was also informed by a series of wartime commissions, including:\n\nAlso crucial to thinking was the Abercrombie Plan for London (1944), which envisaged moving a million and a half people from London to new and expanded towns. (A similar plan was developed for the Clyde Valley in 1946 to combat similar problems faced in Glasgow.) Together these committees reflected a strong consensus to halt the uncontrolled sprawl of London and other large cities. For some, this consensus was tied up with a concern for social welfare reform (typified by the Beveridge Report), as typified in the motto \"if we can build better, we can live better\"; for others, such as John Betjeman it was a more conservative objection to the changing character of existing towns.\n\nFollowing the building of Borehamwood, Middlesex, 12 miles north-west of central London, the first in a ring of major \"first generation\" New Towns around London (1946) were Stevenage, Hertfordshire, 33 miles to the north of London, and Basildon, Essex, 32 miles east of London along the River Thames. Hertfordshire built four other new towns, two in the vicinity of Stevenage (Welwyn Garden City and Hatfield), a third to the north called Letchworth, and Hemel Hempstead to the west. (Hall 1996: 133) New Towns in the North East were also planned such as Newton Aycliffe (which the social reformer and government adviser William Beveridge wanted to be the \"ideal town to live in\") and Peterlee. Bracknell in Berkshire, to the south-west of London, was designated a New Town in 1949 and is still expanding. Other London new towns from this era include Harlow in Essex and Crawley in West Sussex.\n\nLater a scatter of \"second-generation\" towns were built to meet specific problems, such as the development of the Corby Steelworks. Finally, five \"third-generation\" towns were launched in the late 1960s: these were larger, some of them based on substantial existing settlements such as Peterborough, and the most famous was probably Milton Keynes, midway between London and Birmingham, known for its huge central park and shopping centre, designed from the outset as a new city – though in law it is a 'New Town'. The 1960s saw new towns crop up around England's second-city Birmingham, namely Redditch, Tamworth and Telford.\n\nOther towns, such as Ashford in Kent, Basingstoke in Hampshire and Swindon in Wiltshire, were designated \"Expanded Towns\" and share many characteristics with the new towns. Scotland also gained three more new towns: Cumbernauld in 1956, famous for its enclosed 'town centre', Livingston (1962) and Irvine (1966).\n\nIn spite of the relative success of new towns in the London Metropolitan green belt, London continued to suffer from a chronic housing shortage, especially in the south-east. Another small New Town, Thamesmead, was developed adjacent to the Thames in the early 1960s but suffered from poor transport links. Some improvement in infrastructure has been seen subsequently.\n\nAll the new towns featured a car-oriented layout with many roundabouts and a grid-based road system unusual in the old world. Milton Keynes in particular was designed with a grid-based distributor road system. The earlier new towns, where construction was often rushed and whose inhabitants were generally plucked out of their established communities with little ceremony, rapidly got a poor press reputation as the home of \"new town blues\". These issues were systematically addressed in the later towns, with the third generation towns in particular devoting substantial resources to cycle routes, public transport and community facilities, as well as employing teams of officers for social development work.\n\nThe financing of the UK new towns was creative. Land within the designated area was acquired at agricultural use value by the development corporation for each town, and infrastructure and building funds borrowed on 60-year terms from the UK Treasury. Interest on these loans was rolled up, in the expectation that the growth in land values caused by the development of the town would eventually allow the loans to be repaid in full. However, the high levels of retail price inflation experienced in the developed world in the 1970s and 1980s fed through into interest rates and frustrated this expectation, so that substantial parts of the loans had ultimately to be written off.\n\nAll New Towns designated under the New Towns Act of 1946 were serviced by a secretariat, the New Towns Association, a quango that reported to the New Towns Directorate of the Department of the Environment. It coordinated the work of the General Managers and technical officers, published a monthly information bulletin and provided information for visitors from around the world. As each New Town reached maturity, the town's assets were taken over by the Commission for New Towns. Set up in 1948, the New Towns Association was dissolved in 1998. All papers held by it and the Commission for New Towns are held in The National archives:\n\nFrom the 1970s the first generation towns began to reach their initial growth targets. As they did so, their development corporations were wound up and the assets disposed of: rented housing to the local authority, and other assets to the Commission for the New Towns (in England; but alternative arrangements were made in Scotland and Wales). The Thatcher Government, from 1979, saw the new towns as a socialist experiment to be discontinued, and all the development corporations were dissolved by 1992 (with the closure of Milton Keynes Development Corporation), even for the third generation towns whose growth targets were still far from being achieved. Ultimately the Commission for the New Towns was also dissolved and its assets – still including a lot of undeveloped land – passed to the English Industrial Estates Corporation (later known as English Partnerships).\n\nMany of the New Towns attempted to incorporate public art and cultural programmes but with mixed methods and results. In Harlow the architect in charge of the design of the new town, Frederick Gibberd, founded the Harlow Art Trust and used it to purchase works by leading sculptors, including Auguste Rodin, Henry Moore and Barbara Hepworth. In Peterlee the abstract artist Victor Pasmore was appointed part of the design team, which led to the building of the Apollo Pavilion. Washington New Town was provided with a community theatre and art gallery. The public art in Milton Keynes includes the (in)famous Concrete Cows, which resulted from the work of an 'artist in residence' and have gone on to become a recognised landmark.\n\nIn the 1990s, an experimental \"new town\" was developed by the Prince of Wales to use very traditional or vernacular architectural styles was started at Poundbury in Dorset.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, building of Craigavon in County Armagh commenced in 1966 between Lurgan and Portadown, although entire blocks of flats and shops lay empty, and later derelict, before eventually being bulldozed. The area, which now has a population exceeding 80,000 is mostly a dormitory town for Belfast.\n\nDerry was the first ever planned city in Ireland (the city is now located in Northern Ireland). Work began on building the new city across the River Foyle from the ancient town of Derry (\"Doire Cholm Chille\" or \"Doire\") in 1613. The walls were actually completed five years later in 1618. The central diamond within a walled city with four gates was thought to be a good design for defence. In 1963 under the Matthew Plan the new city of Craigavon was founded out of the original towns of Portadown and Lurgan. This town today lies mostly incomplete as the troubles halted construction. The plan initially was to construct a relief settlement to take people out of the crowded city of Belfast.\n\nTwo \"post-war new towns\" were planned at East Kilbride (1947) and Glenrothes (1948), then the late 1950s and early 1960s saw the creation of Cumbernauld, Irvine and Livingston. Each of these towns is in Scotland's list of 20 most populated towns and cities.\nGlenrothes was the first new town in the UK to appoint a town artist in 1968. A massive range of artworks (around 132 in total) ranging from concrete hippos to bronze statues, dancing children, giant flowers, a dinosaur, a horse and chariot and crocodiles, to name but a few, were created. Town artists appointed in Glenrothes include David Harding and Malcolm Robertson.\n\nThe only new towns in Wales have been Newtown and Cwmbran. Cwmbran was established to provide new employment in the south eastern portion of the South Wales Coalfield. The town is perhaps most widely known now for its international sports stadium and shopping centre.\n\nWhen Prime Minister Sir John A. Macdonald began to settle the West in Canada, he put the project under the command of the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR). The CPR exercised complete control over the development of land under its ownership. The federal government granted every second square mile section (totalling 101,000 km²) along the proposed railway line route to the CPR. The CPR decided where to place railway stations, and thus would decide where the dominant town of the area would be. In most instances the CPR would build a station on an empty section of land to make the largest profit from land sales – meaning that the CPR founded many towns in western Canada, such as Medicine Hat and Moose Jaw, from scratch. If an existing town was close to the newly constructed station but on land not owned by the CPR, the town was forced to move itself to the new site and reconstruct itself, essentially building a new town. Calgary and Yorkton, Saskatchewan, were among the towns that had to move themselves.\n\nAfter the CPR established a station at a particular site, it would plan how the town would be constructed. The side of the tracks with the station would go to business, while the other side would go to warehouses. Furthermore, the CPR controlled where major buildings went (by giving the town free land to build it where the CPR wanted it to go), the construction of roads and the placement and organization of class-structured residential areas.\n\nThe CPR's influence over the development of the Canadian west's communities was one of the earliest examples of new town construction in the modern world. Later influences on planned community development in Canada were the exploitation of mineral and forest wealth, usually in remote locations of the vast country. Among numerous company towns planned and built for these purposes were Corner Brook and Grand Falls in Newfoundland, Témiscaming and Fermont in Quebec.\n\nIn the modern suburban context, several \"New Towns\" were established in the suburbs of large cities. Early examples include Leaside in Toronto and Mount Royal in Montreal. Both were planned and developed by the Canadian Northern Railway as middle class suburbs, though both, Leaside in particular, featured large industrial tracts. Leaside had its own municipal government until 1967, while Mount Royal continues to enjoy autonomy from the City of Montreal.\n\nIn the post-war period, new corporate new towns were developed. Bramalea, located in Brampton, Ontario and Erin Mills, located in Mississauga, Ontario, were both developed in phases. Both included residential, commercial and industrial components. Development in Erin Mills continues to this day.\n\nMore recently, the Cornell development in Markham, Ontario, was built as a new town, using the concepts of New Urbanism.\n\nCityPlace, Toronto is another example of a planned community.\n\nTenochtitlan was the capital of the Aztec empire, which was built on an island in Lake Texcoco in what is now the Federal District in central Mexico. The city was largely destroyed in the 1520s by Spanish conquistadores. Mexico City was erected on top of the ruins and, over the ensuing centuries, most of Lake Texcoco has gradually been drained.\n\nPuebla was built because of the need of a Spanish settlement in the route between Mexico City and the port of Veracruz.\n\nAlthough Panama City itself is not planned, certain areas are such as Costa del Este, an exclusive high density residential and business area, very close to downtown Panama City. The project combines many skyscrapers with beautiful green areas, and it is close to a highway that connects it to the city center. Other planned areas, but in a lesser degree, are Punta Pacifica and the former Canal Zone.\n\nIn the colonial history of the United States, the first planned community was St. Augustine, planned in 1565. The earliest towns in English-speaking America such as Jamestown had only rudimentary elements of planning. The first comprehensively planned town was Charles Town (later Charleston, South Carolina), which was founded in 1670, planned in 1672, and relocated in 1680. Later planned cities were Philadelphia, 1682; Albany, 1695; Williamsburg, 1699; Annapolis, 1718; New York City 1731 (redesigned by the British);and Savannah, 1733; New Haven, 1748 (with an early plan dated 1638); and Alexandria, 1749. The national capital (Washington, D.C.), and several state capitals (Jackson, Mississippi; Columbus, Ohio; Indianapolis, Indiana; Raleigh, North Carolina; Columbia, South Carolina; Madison, Wisconsin; Salt Lake City, Utah; Tallahassee, Florida; and Austin, Texas) were essentially carved out of the wilderness to serve as capital cities.\n\nPullman, now incorporated into Chicago's South Side, was a world-renowned company town founded by the industrialist George M. Pullman in the 1880s.\n\nIn Beaver County, Pennsylvania, near Pittsburgh, American Bridge Company founded Ambridge, Pennsylvania in 1905 as a company town for American Bridge; American Bridge is still based near Ambridge today in nearby Coraopolis, Pennsylvania.\n\nAnother well-known company town is Gary, Indiana, which was founded in 1906 by the United States Steel Corporation as a home for its new steel mill, the Gary Works, and named after Elbert Henry Gary, the chairman of the company. For many years the Gary Works was the largest steel mill in the world, and it dominated the town, the main entrance being at the northern end of Broadway, the city's main thoroughfare. The fortunes of this planned city have historically risen and fallen with those of the steel mill: prosperous in the 1930s, the city has lost 55 percent of its population since 1960.\n\nRiverside, Illinois, Radburn, New Jersey, and Kansas City, Missouri's Country Club District are other early examples of planned communities. Established in 1912, Shaker Heights, Ohio, was planned and developed in by the Van Sweringen brothers, railroad moguls who envisioned the community as a suburban retreat from the industrial inner-city of Cleveland. Kohler Company created a planned village of the same name west of the company's former headquarters city of Sheboygan, Wisconsin, which incorporated in 1912. In 1918, the Aluminum Company of America built the town of Alcoa, Tennessee for the employees of the nearby aluminum processing plant.\n\nDuring the Florida land boom of the 1920s in Southern Florida, the communities of Coral Gables, Opa-locka, and Miami Springs, now suburbs of Miami, were incorporated as fully planned \"themed\" communities which were to reflect the architecture and look of Spain, Arabia, and Mexico respectively, and are now considered some of the first modern planned communities in the United States. Oldsmar, located in west central Florida, was developed by automobile pioneer Ransom E. Olds.\n\nIn 1928, San Clemente, California was incorporated by Ole Hanson who designated that all buildings must be approved by an architectural review board in order to retain control over development and building style.\n\nDuring the Great Depression of the 1930s, several model towns were planned and built by the Federal government. Arthurdale and Eleanor, West Virginia, federally funded New Deal communities, were Eleanor Roosevelt's projects to ease the burden of the depression on coal miners. The Tennessee Valley Authority created several towns of its own to accommodate workers constructing their new dams; the most prominent being Norris, Tennessee. Three \"Greenbelt Communities\", Greenbelt, Maryland, Greenhills, Ohio, and Greendale, Wisconsin, built by the Federal government during the 1930s were planned with a surrounding \"belt\" of woodland and natural landscaping.\n\nDuring World War II, the Manhattan Project built several planned communities to provide accommodations for scientists, engineers, industrial workers and their families. These communities, including Oak Ridge, Tennessee, Richland, Washington and Los Alamos, New Mexico were necessary because the laboratories and industrial plants of the Manhattan Project were built in isolated locations to ensure secrecy. Even the existence of these towns was a military secret, and the towns themselves were closed to the public until after the war.\n\nThe Levittowns—in Long Island, Pennsylvania and New Jersey (now known as Willingboro, New Jersey) – typified the planned suburban communities of the 1950s and early 1960s. California's Rohnert Park (north of San Francisco) is another example of a planned city (built at the same time as Levittown) that was marketed to attract middle-class people into an area only populated with farmers with the phrase, \"A Country Club for the middle class.\"\n\nMany other places, such as Orange County, California, the Conejo Valley in Ventura County, Valencia in Los Angeles County, as well as Phoenix, Arizona and Northern Arizona also have many master planned communities following the housing boom in the 1960s, which is when the fathers of Scottsdale, Arizona foresaw a huge amount of growth in Arizona. Some of those communities include Anaheim Hills, Rossmoor, Irvine, Ladera Ranch, Laguna Niguel, Mission Viejo, and Talega, Thousand Oaks, Westlake Village, Newbury Park, Valencia in California and (in the Phoenix area) Marley Park, Talking Rock Ranch, McCormick Ranch, Rio Verde, Tartesso and Verrado in Buckeye, Arizona. The neighborhood of Warren in the city of Bisbee has the distinction of being Arizona's first planned community. In the Conejo Valley, which is in the East County Area of Ventura County, all cities were master planned. Most notably, the Thousand Oaks, Newbury Park, and Westlake Village area was master planned by the Janss Investment Company, which was also responsible for the development of Westwood Village, part of the Westside in Los Angeles. Valencia is an area that is a master planned community that incorporated into the City of Santa Clarita, developed and planned by the Newhall Land and Farming Company. About 25% of Orange County is composed of various master planned communities, much of which was done by the Irvine Company, and since 1990, 85% of all developments in Orange County and a slightly smaller amount of communities in Arizona were part of a master planned community. 75% of all resales today in the Phoenix area are homes in master planned communities, and 80% of all new home construction permits issued by Arizona building departments are master planned communities. These communities provide functionality to the precious land left in the area, as well as the ability to create a housing-business-transportation-open space balance.\n\nThe era of the modern planned city began in 1962–1964 with the creation of Reston, Virginia, followed a year later by Coral Springs, Florida, and Columbia, Maryland. In more recent years, New Urbanism has set the stage for new cities, with places like the idyllic Seaside, Florida, and Disney's new town of Celebration, Florida.\n\nIn the United States, suburban growth in the Sunbelt states has coincided with the popularity of Master Planned Communities within established suburbs. Texas was at the forefront of this trend. Las Colinas, established in 1973, was one of the first such examples and is still growing. Las Colinas is a master planned community within the Dallas-area city of Irving. In 2006, residents approved changes to deed restrictions to allow greater density of urban mixed-use and residential construction. Also in the 1970s, just north of the existing town of Spring, Texas (north of Houston), oil and gas industry executive George P. Mitchell developed The Woodlands, a major residential and commercial master planned community which is now considered one of the premier residential and business destinations in the Houston area. The Woodlands is still experiencing huge growth to this day. In the 1990s, Cinco Ranch was first developed just south of the existing town of Katy, one of the western suburbs of Houston, and has contributed to the explosive recent growth of Houston's suburban west side.\n\nIn the San Francisco Bay Area, master planned commercial developments such as Bishop Ranch in San Ramon and Hacienda Business Park in Pleasanton have attracted major corporate tenants to relocate from downtown Oakland and San Francisco; these companies include Safeway, Chevron Corporation and AT&T (as the former Pacific Bell).\n\nIn recent years, new towns such as Mountain House, San Joaquin County, California, have added a new wrinkle to the movement: to prevent conurbation with nearby cities, they have imposed strict growth boundaries, as well as automatic \"circuit breakers\" that place moratoriums on residential development if the number of jobs per resident in the town falls below a certain value. Centennial new town part in Tejon Ranch halfway between Los Angeles and Bakersfield, will incorporate such restrictions in order to minimize the commuter load on severely congested I-5. Coyote Springs, Nevada, Destiny, Florida and Douglas Ranch in Buckeye, Arizona are amongst the largest communities being planned for the 21st century. A recent twist is the town of Ave Maria, Florida, founded in 2007, which is anchored by a Catholic university and has a large Catholic church in the center of town surrounded by commercial and residential development.\n\nLa Plata was planned in 1880 to replace Buenos Aires city as the capital of the Buenos Aires Province.\n\nUrban planner Pedro Benoit designed a city layout based on a rationalist conception of urban centers. The city has the shape of a square with a central park and two main diagonal avenues, north-south and east-west. (In addition, there are numerous other shorter diagonals.) This design is copied in a self-similar manner in small blocks of six by six blocks in length. Every six blocks, one finds a small park or square. Other than the diagonals, all streets are on a rectangular grid, and are numbered consecutively.\n\nThe designs for the government buildings were chosen in an international architectural competition. Thus, the Governor Palace was designed by Italians, City Hall by Germans, etc. Electric street lighting was installed in 1884, and was the first of its kind in Latin America.\n\nBrasília: Juscelino Kubitschek, President of Brazil from 1956 to 1961, ordered the construction of Brasília, fulfilling the promise of the Constitution and his own political campaign promise. Building Brasília was part of Juscelino's \"fifty years of prosperity in five\" plan. Lúcio Costa won a contest and was the main urban planner in 1957, with 5550 people competing. Oscar Niemeyer, a close friend, was the chief architect of most public buildings and Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer. Brasília was built in 41 months, from 1956 to 21 April 1960, when it was officially inaugurated.\nThe former capital of Brazil was Rio de Janeiro, and resources tended to be concentrated in the southeast region of Brazil. While the city was built because there was a need for a neutrally located federal capital, the main reason was to promote the development of Brazil's hinterland and better integrate the entire territory of Brazil. Brasília is approximately at the geographical center of Brazilian territory.\n\nLúcio Costa, the city's principal architect, designed the city to be shaped like an airplane. Housing and offices are situated on giant superblocks, everything following the original plan. The plan specifies which zones are residential, which zones are commercial, where industries can settle, where official buildings can be built, the maximum height of buildings, etc.\n\nBelo Horizonte: In 1889, Brazil became a republic, and it was agreed that a new state capital of Minas Gerais, in tune with a modern and prosperous Minas Gerais, had to be set. In 1893, due to the climatic and topographic conditions, Curral Del Rey was selected by Minas Gerais governor Afonso Pena among other cities as the location for the new economical and cultural center of the state, under the new name of \"Cidade de Minas,\" or City of Minas. Aarão Reis, an urbanist from the State of Pará, was then set to design the second planned city of Brazil (the first one is Teresina), and then Cidade de Minas was inaugurated finally in 1897, with many unfinished constructions as the Brazilian Government set a deadline for its completion. Inhabitation of the city was subsidized by the local government, through the concession of free empty lots and funding for building houses. An interesting feature of Reis' downtown street plan for Belo Horizonte was the inclusion of a symmetrical array of perpendicular and diagonal streets named after Brazilian states and Brazilian indigenous tribes.\n\nGoiânia: The plan was for a city of 50,000 with the shape of a concentric radius – streets in the form of a spoke, with the Praça Cívica as the center, with the seats of the state and municipal government – The Palace of Emeralds and the Palace of Campinas. In 1937, a decree was signed transferring the state capital from the Cidade de Goiás to Goiânia. The official inauguration only occurred in 1942 with the presence of the president of the republic, governors, and ministers.\n\nFordlândia was built to be a part of Henry Ford's motor company. Originally intended to be a rubber plantation, it failed within several years and is now home to squatting farmers.\n\nOther notable planned cities in Brazil include Teresina (The first one, inaugurated in 1842), Petrópolis, Boa Vista, Palmas, Londrina, and Maringá (the latter two in the state of Paraná).\n\n\nAustralia's most prominent fully planned city is Canberra, its capital, designed by American architect Walter Burley Griffin. The early central areas of two state capital cities – Adelaide and Melbourne – were also planned by surveyors. Walter Burley Griffin was Australia's most notable city planner, having also designed smaller cities and towns, including Leeton and Griffith in New South Wales. A controversial Japanese-backed planned city, Multifunction Polis, was proposed in the 1980s, but never implemented.\n\nAustralia is still building planned communities with developers such as Delfin Lend Lease, an S&P/ASX 50 company, that has been responsible for large master planned communities such as;\n\n\nAdelaide was founded by British and German colonists in 1836 to test out Edward Gibbon Wakefield's theories of systematic colonisation. Convict labour was not employed and the colony in theory would be financially self-sufficient; in practice, government assistance was used in the early stages. Land had been sold before anyone set foot in the largely unexplored territory and the city (the basis for the future central business district) was surveyed and planned in a remarkably short space of time. Adelaide's design has been praised for its four-square layout, its choice of setting and its ample parklands which have had minimal encroachment of developments. The town centre was in sufficient proximity to a water source, the River Torrens.\n\nMelbourne was planned as a free settlement in 1837 through the Hoddle Grid, drawn up by Robert Hoddle under instructions from George Gipps, the original plan for Melbourne as part of the first land sales (prior to the planning only a handful of existing settlements were built on the fringe of the grid). The grid featured wide parallel streets, spanning a gently sloping valley between hills (Batman's Hill, Flagstaff Hill and Eastern Hill) and roughly parallel to the course of the Yarra River. The deliberate exclusion of city squares or open space within the grid was a subject of future frustration for the municipality and residents Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, in the centre of the grid, was built over a gully and has therefore been prone to flooding. Despite a later extension and later inclusion of planned suburbs, Melbourne's original plans were not as extensive as Adelaide's, and the city rapidly outgrew its original boundaries. As such, it is often not considered to be a planned city, but the grid continues to define much of the character of the Melbourne city centre.\n\nCanberra, established in 1908, was planned as the capital city of Australia and is Australia's most notable and ambitious example of civic planning. The city was designed to be the Federal Capital following the federation of the six Australian colonies which formed the Commonwealth of Australia. The new nation required a capital that was located away from other major settlements such as Melbourne and Sydney. Canberra is thus located in a Territory – the Australian Capital Territory – and not a State. Prior to this time the land that Canberra is found on was farming land, indigenous settlements, and forest. In 1912, after an extensive planning competition was completed, the vision of American Walter Burley Griffin was chosen as the winning design for the city. Extensive construction and public works were required to complete the city, this involved the flooding of a large parcel of land to form the center piece of the city, Lake Burley Griffin. Unlike some other Australian cities, the road network, suburbs, parks and other elements of the city were designed in context with each other, rather than haphazard planning as witnessed in much of Sydney. Notable buildings include the High Court, Federal Parliament, Government House, War Memorial, Anzac Parade and headquarters of the Department of Defence.\n\nNew Zealand has several small New Towns, built for a specific purpose. Examples include Kawerau in the Bay of Plenty (a mill town), Twizel in North Otago, Mangakino in the Waikato (both for hydroelectricity), and Turangi near Taupo (for the Tongariro Power Scheme). Construction of Kawerau began in 1953. Twizel was built in 1968 to service nearby hydroelectric projects and was supposed to close on their completion. However, its residents managed to save the town in 1983. Mangakino, constructed from 1946, was also meant to be a temporary construction town, but it too remains today. John Martin, the founder of the Wairarapa town of Martinborough, set out the town's first streets in the pattern of the Union Flag in the 19th century.\n\nIn 2006, construction began on Pegasus Town, a new planned town adjacent to Woodend, approximately north of Christchurch.\n\n"}
{"id": "1551187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1551187", "title": "Pledge drive", "text": "Pledge drive\n\nA pledge drive is an extended period of fundraising activities, generally used by public broadcasting stations to increase contributions. The term \"pledge\" originates from the promise that a contributor makes to send in funding at regular intervals for a certain amount of time. During a pledge drive, regular and special programming is followed by on-air appeals for pledges by station employees, who ask the audience to make their contributions, usually by phone or the Internet, during this break\n\nPledge drives are typically held two to four times annually, at calendar periods that vary (though, they are usually scheduled during the spring, summer and/or fall months) depending on the scheduling designated by the local public broadcasting station.\n\nWhile public broadcasters are partially or completely government-funded in some nations, there are some countries, such as the United States, where some funds come from donations from the public. Stations in these parts of the world commonly hold pledge drives about two to three times each year, usually lasting one to two weeks each time.\n\nPledge drives are especially common among U.S. stations. Although the federal government of the United States, primarily through the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), and corporate underwriting provide some money for public broadcasting organizations like National Public Radio (NPR) and the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), they are largely dependent on program fees paid by their member stations. These stations require funding in turn from listeners and viewers (as well as local corporate sponsors) for not only these fees, but also other daily operating costs, and stage regular pledge drives in an attempt to persuade their audiences to contribute donations.\n\nA hallmark of pledge breaks is the \"pledge room\", where the speakers deliver their message as volunteering individuals answer ringing telephones in the background. Frequent updates are provided as to the amount of money that the pledge drive has raised so far, which is also (on television stations) shown on a numeric display. Small prizes such as mugs and tote bags (known as \"thank-you\" gifts or, euphemistically, as \"premiums\"), as well as entries into drawings for larger awards, are also offered by many stations in return for pledging certain amounts of money.\n\nPledge drives have been controversial for most of their existence. While pledge drives are an effective method of raising money for stations, they usually annoy viewers and listeners, who find the regular interruption of what is ordinarily commercial-free content and the station's regular programming being suspended for lifestyle and music specials to be a nuisance. Audience numbers often decline during pledge drives; to compensate, most television stations air special television shows during these fundraising periods. This practice began in earnest in the mid-1970s due to CPB funding cutbacks that were the result of political pressures and the recessions of the time, as well as increasing inflation. As the proportions of government funding in stations' budgets continued to decline over time, such programs became more elaborate in order to sway people who would otherwise watch public television only sporadically (or not at all) to tune in, and possibly donate money in response to appeals during program breaks.\n\nOriginally, such programming consisted of arts presentations such as classical music, drama, and documentaries. However, the audience for supposedly \"high-brow\" fare began declining steadily during the 1980s and 1990s due to the attrition of older generations (to whom such programming mainly appealed), while younger ones were largely uninterested in the arts, for a variety of reasons having to do with the eclipse of \"high culture\" in American society. In order to appeal to such a largely Euro-American, middle-aged and affluent demographic (the so-called \"Baby Boomers\" and \"Generation X\"), PBS has resorted to specials such as self-help programs with speakers such as Suze Orman, nostalgic popular music concerts, and special versions of PBS' traditionally popular \"how-to\" programs.\n\nGenerally speaking, the phenomenon is less pronounced on American public radio stations, primarily because of the high popularity of the news and talk programs on that medium and the routine-based patterns of radio listeners that are much more easily disrupted than those of television. Much of the focus is placed upon the \"drive time\" NPR news programs \"Morning Edition\" and \"All Things Considered,\" which have the highest ratings of all public broadcasting in the U.S. This is in contrast to PBS member stations universally holding their drives during weeknight prime time and on weekend afternoons and evenings, and not during the daytime on weekdays or weekend mornings, when children's programming is typically scheduled.\n\nHowever, in light of intense competition public broadcasting faces from a greatly expanded media environment, other stations, especially radio, have aimed to eliminate pledge drives altogether, or significantly reduce their length, by asking for contributions throughout the year during regular station identification breaks. On radio, such programs as \"ATC\" may have one of their planned stories deleted simply to extend the length of the fund-raising \"pitches\". \n\nIn a more recent trend, some stations also advertise that pledge drives will be shortened by one day for every day's worth of contributions donated in the weeks leading up to a drive. Additionally, some radio stations have started using prospect screening during their pledge drive to identify potential major donors for later fundraising activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "16664441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16664441", "title": "Social construct theory of ADHD", "text": "Social construct theory of ADHD\n\nThe social construction theory of ADHD argues that attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is not necessarily an actual pathology, but that an ADHD diagnosis is a socially constructed explanation to describe behaviors that simply do not meet prescribed social norms.\n\nSome proponents of the social construct theory of ADHD seem to regard the disorder as genuine, though over-diagnosed in some cultures. These proponents cite as evidence that the DSM IV, favored in the United States for defining and diagnosing mental illness, arrives at levels of ADHD three to four times higher than criteria in the ICD 10, the diagnostic guide favored by the World Health Organization. A popular proponent of this theory, Thomas Szasz, has argued that ADHD was \"invented and not discovered.\"\n\nPsychiatrists Peter Breggin and Sami Timimi oppose pathologizing the symptoms of ADHD. Sami Timimi, who is an NHS child and adolescent psychiatrist, argues that ADHD is not an objective 'disorder' but that western society creates stress on families which in turn suggests environmental causes for children expressing the symptoms of ADHD. They also believe that parents who feel they have failed in their parenting responsibilities can use the ADHD label to absolve guilt and self-blame.\n\nA common argument against the medical model of ADHD asserts that while the traits that define ADHD exist and may be measurable, they lie within the spectrum of normal healthy human behaviour and are not dysfunctional. However, by definition, in order to diagnose with a mental disorder, symptoms must be interpreted as causing a person distress / espec. maladaptive. In America, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM-IV) requires that \"some impairment from the symptoms is present in two or more settings\" and that \"there must be clear evidence of significant impairment in social, school, or work functioning\" for a diagnosis of ADHD to be made.\n\nIn this view, in societies where passivity and order are highly valued, those on the active end of the active-passive spectrum may be seen as 'problems'. Medically defining their behaviour (by giving labels such as ADHD and ADD) serves the purpose of removing blame from those 'causing the problem'. Controversy over the social constructionist view comes from a number of studies that cite significant psychological and social differences between those diagnosed with the disorder, and those who are not. However, the specific reasons for these differences are not certain, and this does not suggest anything other than a difference in behavior. Studies have also shown neurological differences, but whether this signifies an effect rather than a cause is unknown. Such differences could also be attributed the drugs commonly prescribed to people with this disorder. Studies have also been able to differentiate ADHD from other psychiatric disorders in its symptoms, associated features, \nlife course, and comorbidity.\n\nGerald Coles, an educational psychologist and formerly an associate professor of clinical psychiatry at Robert Wood Johnson Medical School and the University of Rochester who has written extensively on literacy and learning disabilities, asserts that there are partisan agendas behind the educational policy-makers and that the scientific research that they use to support their arguments regarding the teaching of literacy are flawed. These include the idea that there are neurological explanations for learning disabilities. Gerald Coles argues that school failure must be viewed and treated in the context of both the learning environment and the child's individual abilities, behavior, family life, and social relationships. He then presents a new model of learning problems, in which family and school environments are the major determinants of academic success. In this \"interactive\" paradigm, the attitudes and methods of education are more important than inherent strengths or deficits of the individual child.\n\nSome social constructionist theories of ADHD reject the dominant medical opinion that ADHD has a distinct pathophysiology and genetic components. The 'symptoms' of ADHD also happen to be morally questionable attributes, this is why the symptoms are described as 'inappropriate'. Many social constructionists trenchantly question deterministic views of behaviour, such as those views sometimes put forth within behavioural/abnormal psychology and the biological sciences.\n\nCurrently, the pathophysiology of ADHD is unclear; although research has found evidence of differences in the brain between ADHD and non-ADHD patients. Critics, such as Jonathan Leo and David Cohen who reject the characterization of ADHD as a disorder, contend that the controls for stimulant medication usage were inadequate in some lobar volumetric studies which makes it impossible to determine whether ADHD itself or psychotropic medication used to treat ADHD is responsible for decreased thickness observed in certain brain regions. They believe many neuroimaging studies are oversimplified in both popular and scientific discourse and given undue weight despite deficiencies in experimental methodology.\n\nFrom a biological/genetic point of view, ADHD is said to be highly heritable and twin studies suggest genetics are a factor in about 75% of ADHD cases. However, the genetic connection is questionable. Dr. Joseph Glenmullen states, \"no claim of a gene for a psychiatric condition has stood the test of time, in spite of popular misinformation. Although many theories exist, there is no definitive biological, neurological, or genetic etiology for 'mental illness'.\" His critics argue that ADHD is a heterogeneous disorder caused by a complex interaction of genetic and environmental factors and thus cannot be modeled accurately using the single gene theory. Authors of a review of ADHD etiology have noted: \"Although several genome-wide searches have identified chromosomal regions that are predicted to contain genes that contribute to ADHD susceptibility, to date no single gene with a major contribution to ADHD has been identified.\"\nDescribing current instructional methods as homogenization and lockstep standardization, alternative approaches are proposed, such as the Sudbury schools' democratic education approach in which children, by enjoying personal freedom thus encouraged to exercise personal responsibility for their actions, learn at their own pace rather than following a chronologically-based curriculum.\n\nTimimi's view has been seriously criticized by Russell Barkley and numerous experts in \"Child and Family Psychology Review\" (2005). In any case, it has been shown that Chinese and Indonesian clinicians give significantly higher scores for hyperactive-disruptive behaviors than did their Japanese and American colleagues when evaluating the same group of children. Significant differences in the prevalence of ADHD across different countries have been reported, however.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39415170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39415170", "title": "Sverdlovsk Raion", "text": "Sverdlovsk Raion\n\nSverdlovsk Raion () is a raion (district) in Luhansk Oblast in eastern Ukraine. The administrative center of the raion is the town of Sverdlovsk, which is incorporated separately as a city of oblast significance and does not belong to the raion. Population: .\n\nSince 2014, the raion has been controlled by forces of the Luhansk People's Republic.\n\nAs of the 2001 Ukrainian census:\n\n"}
{"id": "921689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=921689", "title": "The Moscow rules", "text": "The Moscow rules\n\nThe Moscow rules are rules-of-thumb said to have been developed during the Cold War to be used by spies and others working in Moscow.\n\nThe rules are associated with Moscow because the city developed a reputation as being a particularly harsh locale for clandestine operatives who were exposed. The list may never have existed as written.\n\nAgent Tony Mendez wrote:Although no one had written them down, they were the precepts we all understood for conducting operations in the most difficult of operating environments: the Soviet capital. By the time they got to Moscow, everyone knew these rules. They were dead simple and full of common sense.In the International Spy Museum in Washington, D.C., the Moscow Rules are given as:\n\nOther rules which have been circulated around the Internet and used in fiction include:\n\n\nMoscow rules are prominently referenced in John le Carré's cold war books including \"Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy\" and \"Smiley's People\", as tradecraft, including use of inconspicuous signal markers (drawing pins, chalk marks), the use of dead drops, and the ways to signal the need for a (rare) face-to-face meeting. Moscow Rules are important at the beginning of \"Smiley's People,\" where the General invokes the rules to request a meeting with Smiley, but he is followed and killed by KGB assassins before it can happen. The applicable rule states that no documents may be carried that cannot be instantly discarded, in this instance a 35mm negative concealed in an empty pack of cigarettes.\n\nIn \"Spooks\" there are references to the Moscow Rules. In particular, in Season 6 Episode 10, Harry Pearce tells someone, \"Treat London as enemy territory, keep your head down, find an opportunity, and make a move.\" In an earlier episode in Season 5, rogue MI6 agent Richard Dempsey is said to be in disguise and following the Moscow Rules, where the idea of treating the place as enemy territory is repeated.\n\nIn \"The Middleman\", episode 8 (the \"Ectoplasmic Pan-Hellenic Investigation\"), the Moscow Rules are recited.\n\n"}
{"id": "18205594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18205594", "title": "Untapped", "text": "Untapped\n\nUntapped: The Scramble for Africa's Oil (Harcourt, 2007) is a book written by John Ghazvinian about the petroleum industry in Africa. The book was received well by critics, and garnered good reviews from both the \"Boston Globe\" and \"The New York Times\". The book is based extensively on interviews, with representatives of multinational oil companies' views being compared and contrasted with those of politicians within Africa as well as the citizens of affected nations.\nJake Saltzman, the famed critic, gave the book five out of five stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "206153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206153", "title": "Uparaja", "text": "Uparaja\n\nUparaja or Ouparath, also Ouparaja ( - ; - \"Ouparach\"; - ; - \"Oupahat\"), was a royal title reserved for the viceroy in the Buddhist dynasties in Burma, Cambodia, and Laos and Thailand, as well as some of their minor tributary kingdoms.\n\nThe Great Deputy King, in full Maha Uparaja Anaudrapa Ainshe Min, incorrectly interpreted as Crown Prince by Europeans, and addressed as His Royal Highness, was the single highest rank among the Min-nyi Min-tha, i.e. princes of the royal blood. It is shortened to Einshay Min (, ).\n\nHowever, the position was not reserved for the highest birth rank (if there is one, \"Shwe Kodaw-gyi Awratha\", i.e. eldest son of the sovereign, by his chief Queen), nor did it carry a plausible promise of succession, which was usually only settled in an ultimate power struggle.\n\nThe word Ouparach () is derived from both Sanskrit and Pali languages, literally means \"Vice King\", who obtains the position following the crowned king. The full term of Ouparach in order to provide the proper honor is Samdach Preah Ouparach () or Samdach Preah Moha Ouparach (). According to tradition of Kingdom of Cambodia, Samdach Preah Moha Ouparach positions as the supreme official controlling other high and low officials.\n\nUparat (; ) as pronounced in historical Siam, translates to viceroy. Front Palace (; ), however, was the more usual designation, often referred to in English as Second King or Vice King.\n\nThe office was discontinued in 1876 by Rama V, following the Front Palace crisis of 1874, in favour of the office of Crown Prince of Siam (; ). Note that those serving a king constitute a different office, that of regent or regency council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10158450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10158450", "title": "Vice President of Afghanistan", "text": "Vice President of Afghanistan\n\nThe Vice President of Afghanistan is the second highest political position obtainable in Afghanistan. Vice Presidents are currently elected on the same ticket as the President. A Presidential candidate nominates two candidates for Vice President before the election. The current Vice Presidents are Abdul Rashid Dostum (First Vice President) and Sarwar Danish (Second Vice President).\n\nThe deputy head of state was the Vice Chairman of the Revolutionary Council between April 1978 and April 1988. \n\nVice presidents were appointed after the new constitution and elections took place. \nFour vice presidents were appointed by president and approved by the National Assembly. \n\nVice presidents were appointed by the president.\n\nDuring the Afghan Interim Administration and the Afghan Transitional Administration, when the Loya Jirga hadn't appointed a new Constitution yet, there were more than two vice chairmen of the interim administration. \n\nAfter 2004, Vice Presidents are elected on the same ticket as the President. \n\n"}
{"id": "27515111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27515111", "title": "White Terror (Russia)", "text": "White Terror (Russia)\n\nThe White Terror in Russia refers to the organized violence and mass killings carried out by the White Army during the Russian Civil War (1917–23). It began after the Bolsheviks seized power in November 1917, and continued until the defeat of the White Army at the hands of the Red Army. The White Army fought the Red Army for power, which engaged in its own Red Terror. According to some Russian historians, the White Terror was a series of premeditated actions directed by their leaders, although this view is contested by others. Estimates for those killed in the White Terror vary, from between 20,000 and 100,000 people as well as much higher estimates of 300,000 deaths.\n\nAn important member of the White Terror was Lavr Kornilov. During the Ice March in the south of Russia, Kornilov said: \"I give you a very cruel order: do not take prisoners! I accept responsibility for this order before God and the Russian people.\" He promised, \"The greater the terror, the greater our victories.\" He vowed that the goals of his forces must be fulfilled even if it was necessary \"to set fire to half the country and shed the blood of three-fourths of all Russians.\" On another occasion, however, Kornilov said that prisoners should be taken care of, saying, \"We do not make war against the wounded.\"\n\nAccording to N. Bogdanov, a participant in the Ice March, \nAfter receiving information about the Bolsheviks, the commander of the captured detachment was shot. Under Colonel Corwin Krukovsky, there was some especially painful cruelty. I know of many cases when under the influence of hatred for the Bolsheviks, the officers assumed the duties of shooting the captured volunteers. The executions were necessary because under the conditions in which the Volunteer Army had to move, prisoners could not be taken.\n\nBogdanov cited another occasion, however, where Red Officers were tried and cleared as having acted under duress.\n\nAfter Kornilov was killed in April 1918, the leadership of the Volunteer Army passed to Anton Denikin. During the Denikin regime, the press regularly urged violence against Jews. For example, a proclamation by one of Denikin's generals incited people to \"arm themselves\" in order to extirpate \"the evil force which lives in the hearts of Jew-communists.\" In the small town of Fastov alone, Denikin's Volunteer Army murdered over 1,500 Jews, mostly the elderly, women, and children. An estimated 100,000 to 150,000 Jews in Ukraine and southern Russia were killed in pogroms perpetrated by Denikin's forces as well as Petlyura's nationalist-separatists. Hundreds of thousands of Jews were left homeless and tens of thousands became victims of serious illness.\n\nIn the Don Province, the Soviet government was displaced by a regime headed by Pyotr Krasnov formed in April 1918. According to Walter Laqueur, more than 45,000 people were shot or hanged by Krasnov's White Cossack regime, which lasted until the Red Army conquered the region following their victory at Tsaritsyn. \n\nMass executions occurred in 1918 in territories under White occupation. In one incident, commander of the 3rd Division of the Volunteer Army, M. Drozdovsky, gave an order to shoot more than 1,000 captured prisoners.\n\nIn 1918 when the Whites controlled the Northern Territory with a population of about 400,000 people, more than 38,000 were sent to prisons. Of those, about 8,000 were executed while thousands more died from torture and disease.\n\nIn November 1918, after seizing power in Siberia, Admiral Kolchak pursued a policy of persecuting revolutionaries as well as Socialists of several factions. Kolchak's government issued a broadly worded decree on 3 December 1918 revising articles of the criminal code of Imperial Russia \"in order to preserve the system and rule of the Supreme Ruler\". Articles 99 and 100 established capital punishment for assassination attempts on the Supreme Ruler and for attempting to overthrow the authorities. Under Article 103, \"insults written, printed, and oral, are punishable by imprisonment\". Bureaucratic sabotage under Article 329 was punishable by hard labor from 15 to 20 years. Additional decrees followed, adding more power. On 11 April 1919, the Kolchak government adopted Regulation 428, \"About the dangers of public order due to ties with the Bolshevik Revolt\", which was published in the Omsk newspaper \"Omsk Gazette\" (no. 188 of 19 July 1919). It provided a term of 5 years of prison for \"individuals considered a threat to the public order because of their ties in any way with the Bolshevik revolt\". In the case of unauthorized return from exile, there could be hard labor from 4 to 8 years. Articles 99-101 allowed the death penalty, forced labor and imprisonment, and repression by military courts, and it also imposed no investigation commissions.\n\nAn excerpt from the order of the government of Yenisei county in Irkutsk province, General. S. Rozanov said:\nThose villages whose population meets troops with arms, burn down the villages and shoot the adult males without exception.\nIf hostages are taken in cases of resistance to government troops, shoot the hostages without mercy.\n\nA member of the Central Committee of the Right-wing Socialist Revolutionaries, D. Rakov wrote about the terror of Kolchak's forces: \nOmsk just froze in horror. At a time when the wives of dead comrades, day and night looked in the snow for bodies, I was unaware of the horror behind the walls of the guardhouse. At least 2500 people were killed. Entire bodies of carts were carried to a city, like winter lamb and pork carcasses. Those who suffered were mainly soldiers of the garrison and the workers.\n\nIn March 1919 Admiral Kolchak himself demanded one of his generals to \"follow the example of the Japanese who, in the Amur region, had exterminated the local population\". Kolchak's regime also used mass floggings, especially with rods. Kolchak issued orders to raze to the ground whole villages. In a few Siberian provinces, 20,000 farms were destroyed and over 10,000 peasant houses burned down. Kolchak's regime destroyed bridges and blew up water stations.\n\nIn the Urals, Siberia, and the Far East, extraordinary cruelty was practiced by several Cossack warlords: B. Annenkov, A. Dutov, G. Semyonov, and J. Kalmykov. During the trial against Annenkov, there was testimony about the robbing peasants and atrocities under the slogan: “We have no restrictions! God is with us and Ataman Annenkov: slash right and left!”. In September 1918, during the suppression of peasant uprisings in Slavgorod county, Annenkov tortured and killed up to 500 people. The village of Black Dole was burned down, after which peasants were shot, tortured, and hanged on pillars, including the wives and children of the peasants. Girls of Slavgorod and surrounding areas were brought to Annenkov's train, raped, and then shot. According to an eyewitness, Annenkov behaved with brutal torture: victims had their eyes gouged and tongues and strips of their back cut off, were buried alive, or tied to horses. In Semipalatinsk, Annenkov threatened to shoot every fifth resident if the city refused to pay indemnities.\n\nOn May 9, 1918, after Ataman Dutov captured Alekasandrov-Gai village, nearly 2,000 men of the Red Army were buried alive. More than 700 people of the village were executed. After capturing Troitsk, Orenburg, and other cities, a regime of terror was installed. One prison in Orenburg contained over 6,000 people, of whom 500 were killed just during interrogations. In Chelyabinsk, Dutov's men executed or deported to Siberian prisons over 9,000 people. In Troitsk, Dutov's men in the first weeks after the capture of the city shot about 700 people. In Ileka they killed over 400. These mass executions were typical of Dutov's Cossack troops. Dutov's Executive order of 4 August 1918 imposed the death penalty for evasion of military service and for even passive resistance to authorities on its territory. In one district of the Ural region in January 1918, Dutov's men killed over 1,000 people. On 3 April 1919, the Cossack warlord ordered his troops to shoot and take hostages for the slightest display of opposition. In the village of Sugar, Dutov's men burned down a hospital with hundreds of Red Army patients.\n\nThe Semenov regime in Transbaikalia was characterized by mass terror and executions. At the Adrianovki station in summer of 1919, more than 1,600 people were shot. Semenov himself admitted in court that his troops burned villages. Eleven permanent death houses were set up, where refined forms of torture were practiced. Semyonov personally supervised the torture chambers, during which some 6,500 people were murdered.\n\nMajor General William S. Graves, who commanded American occupation forces in Siberia, testified that:\nSemeonoff and Kalmikoff soldiers, under the protection of Japanese troops, were roaming the country like wild animals, killing and robbing the people, and these murders could have been stopped any day Japan wished. If questions were asked about these brutal murders, the reply was that the people murdered were Bolsheviks and this explanation, apparently, satisfied the world. Conditions were represented as being horrible in Eastern Siberia, and that life was the cheapest thing there. There were horrible murders committed, but they were not committed by the Bolsheviks as the world believes. I am well on the side of safety when I say that the anti-Bolsheviks killed one hundred people in Eastern Siberia, to everyone killed by the Bolsheviks.\n\nMany Russian authors wrote about the heroism of the Russian people in combating the White Terror. Novels include Furmanov's \"Chapaev\", Serafimovich's \"The Iron Flood\", and Fadeyev's \"The Rout\". Many of the early short stories and novels of Sholokhov, Leonov, and Fedin were devoted to this theme.\nNikolai Ostrovsky's autobiographical novel \"How the Steel was Tempered\" documents episodes of the White Terror in western Ukraine by anti-Soviet units.\n\nIn Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, and elsewhere, a significant number of monuments are dedicated to victims of the White Terror. Most monuments were placed on the mass graves created by the terror.\n\nSince 1920, the central square in Volgograd has been called the \"Square of Fallen Fighters\", where the remains of 55 victims of the White Terror are buried. A monument established in 1957 in black and red granite has an inscription: \"To the freedom fighters of Red Tsaritsyn. Buried here are the heroic defenders of Red Tsaritsyn brutally tortured by White Guard butchers in 1919.\"\n\nA monument to victims of the White Terror stands in Vyborg. It was erected in 1961 near the Leningrad Highway to commemorate 600 people shot by machine gun.\n\nThe \"In Memory of Victims of the White Terror\" monument in Voronezh is located in a park near the regional Nikitinskaia libraries. The monument was unveiled in 1920 on the site of public executions in 1919 by the troops of Mamantov.\n\nIn Sevastopol on the 15th Bastion Street, there is a \"Communard Cemetery and victims of White terror\". The cemetery is named in honor of the members of the Communist underground murdered by Whites in 1919–20.\n\nIn the city of Slavgorod in Altai Krai, there is a monument for participants of the Chernodolsky Uprising and their families who fell victim to the White terror of Ataman Annekov.\n\n\n\n"}
