{"id": "48837617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48837617", "title": "1828 in philosophy", "text": "1828 in philosophy\n\n"}
{"id": "20314244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20314244", "title": "Anita L. Allen", "text": "Anita L. Allen\n\nAnita LaFrance Allen-Castellitto (born March 24, 1953) is the Henry R. Silverman Professor of Law and professor of philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania Law School. She is also Vice Provost for Faculty. She has been a senior fellow in the former bioethics department of the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, a collaborating faculty member in Africana studies, and an affiliated faculty member in the gender, sexuality and women's studies program. In 2010 President Barack Obama named Allen to the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues. She is a Hastings Center Fellow.\n\nAnita L. Allen, also known as Anita Lafrance Allen-Castellitto, was born in Fort Worden (Port Townsend, Washington) in 1953. Her parents, Carrye Mae Allen (née Cloud) and Grover Cleveland Allen, were both natives of Atlanta, Georgia. Allen's father made a career in the United States Army, serving in both the Korean War and the Vietnam War. Her father was a member of \"Operation Kapers,\" a squad of enlisted men who entertained combat soldiers in Korea with song, dance, and comedy. Allen spent her childhood living on military bases, including Fort Benning, Georgia, and Schofield Barracks, Hawaii.\n\nAllen was one of six children. Her brother, Michael Patrick Allen, began working as an environmental lawyer for Microsoft in 2008. Other siblings are Cynthia Ann Allen Jackson and Monica Lynne Allen Newell, both of whom have worked for the federal government, Newell for the Centers for Disease Control. Their brother Grover Cleveland Allen, Jr, is a professional engineer employed by the GE corporation; and Andre Ramon Allen made a career as a Master Sergeant in the United States Air Force and later became a paralegal.\n\nIn 1985, Allen married Paul Vincent Castellitto, a lawyer from New Rochelle, New York, who specialized in white collar criminal defense law. The pair adopted two children.\n\nAn earlier marriage in 1982 to artist Michael Kelly Williams of Detroit, Michigan ended in divorce. Allen was the model for Williams' woodcut, \"Afternoon of a Georgia Faun.\" An original version of the woodcut was printed at the acclaimed printmaking workshop of Robert Blackburn and now is held in the permanent print collection of the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 2006, Allen became an elder of the Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church.\n\nAllen is one of several successful black professionals whose experiences and perspectives have been profiled in books including Laurel Holliday's \"Children of the Dream\" (2000), Ellis Cose's \"The Rage of a Privileged Class\" (1994), George Yancy's \"African American Philosophers: 17 Conversations\" (1998,) and Elwood Watson: \"Outsiders Within\" (2008). She was featured in Carlin Romano's 2007 article, \"A Challenge for Philosophy.\" Of her, he writes, \"Penn's Anita Allen is at the top of her field, but she has serious concerns about its lack of openness and diversity.\"\n\nIn 2010 President Barack Obama appointed Allen to the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues.\n\nIn 2016 Allen was elected to the National Academy of Medicine.\n\nIn 2017 Allen was elected Vice President and President Elect of the Eastern Division of the American Philosophical Association, the first African American woman to hold the post in any Division of the Association.\n\nAllen graduated an honor student from Baker High School in Columbus, Georgia, in 1970 in just three years. Allen holds a B.A. from New College of Florida, on whose board of trustees she later served. Allen has twice delivered the commencement address at New College. While enrolled at New College, Allen spent a year studying in Italy and Germany. Under the direction of Professor Bryan Norton, she completed an undergraduate thesis on the philosophy of logical positivist Rudolf Carnap.\n\nAllen received her M.A. and Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Michigan. Allen received training in analytic philosophy at the University of Michigan, where she also studied modern dance, alongside classmate Madonna.\n\nProfessor Richard Brandt, a noted proponent of moral utilitarianism, advised Allen's doctoral thesis, \"Rights, Children and Education.\" Her dissertation examined Thomas Hobbes' and John Locke's theories of parental authority, and the moral ideal of a right to education. She argued for greater autonomy for children. Allen was one of the first African-American women to earn a PhD in Philosophy, along with Joyce Mitchell Cook, LaVerne Shelton, and Adrian Piper. She is the first African-American woman to hold both a J.D. and Ph.D. in philosophy.\n\nAllen received her J.D. from Harvard Law School. While attending Harvard, Allen served as a teaching fellow for professors Michael Sandel, Ronald Dworkin, Robert Nozick, and Sissela Bok. She worked as a summer law Associate at the Gaston Snow Ely Bartlett law firm in Boston and at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy in New York.\n\nPrior to joining the Penn faculty, Allen was professor and associate dean for research and scholarship at Georgetown University Law Center from 1987 to 1998, and an assistant professor of philosophy at Carnegie Mellon University from 1978 to 1981. She was the first African American woman to serve on the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh School of Law, 1985 to 1987. She has been a visiting faculty member at Waseda University Law School in Tokyo, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, University of Washington, Hofstra Law School, University of Arizona College of Law, Princeton University, Yale Law School, Villanova University School of Law, and Harvard Law School.\n\nAllen is an expert on privacy law and contemporary ethics. She is also recognized for scholarship about legal philosophy, women's rights, and race relations.\n\nShe has received fellowships from Princeton's Program in Law and Public Affairs, the American Council of Learned Societies, the American Association of University Women, and the Ford Foundation.\n\nAllen is a member of the Pennsylvania and New York bars. She briefly practiced law with Cravath, Swaine & Moore in New York City in 1984 and 1985.\n\nAllen serves on the board of directors of several charities and professional associations, including the American Association for Practical and Professional Ethics, the Electronic Privacy Information Center, the Hastings Center, the Maternity Care Coalition, the National Association for Women Lawyer's Judicial Evaluation Committee, and the West Philadelphia Alliance for Children. She was a member of the National Advisory Committee for Human Genome Research.\n\nAllen has been invited to lecture at colleges and universities across the United States and in Canada, Europe, Australia, Japan, and Taiwan. She has appeared on \"The Ethical Edge\", \"20/20\", \"Nightline\", \"Good Morning America\", \"60 Minutes\", \"Face the Nation\", \"Talk of the Nation\", and other television and radio programs. She has written for the popular press, including \"O, the Oprah magazine\"; the Daily Beast.com, and the \"Newark Star Ledger\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17809873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17809873", "title": "Ariadne auf Naxos (Benda)", "text": "Ariadne auf Naxos (Benda)\n\nAriadne auf Naxos (\"Ariadne on Naxos\") is a duodrama in one act by Czech composer Jiří Antonín Benda (also Georg Benda) with a German libretto by . It was commissioned by Abel Seyler, whose theatrical company arrived in Gotha in 1774. The opera's first performance was at the Schloss Friedenstein, Gotha, on 27 January 1775.\n\n\"Ariadne auf Naxos\" belonged to the genre known as German melodrama, an attempt is to merge spoken dialogue with music, making it the only form of opera with no singing. Brandes wrote the text of \"Ariadne auf Naxos\" for his wife Charlotte, a famous singer and actress of the day. She played the part of Ariadne in the premiere. The basis for Brandes' libretto was a cantata by Heinrich Wilhelm von Gerstenberg. However, Tim Ashley in his review of a 2005 performance of the work, suggests that Brandes may have been influenced by Virgil's \"Aeneid\", \"Theseus is a man of destiny and conscience; Ariadne has no Bacchus to redeem her and instead commits suicide after seeing Theseus sail away\".\n\nMozart attended a production of \"Ariadne auf Naxos\" and became a great admirer of Benda's compositions. In 1778 he wrote to his father expressing the desire to compose a duodrama entitled \"Semiramide\" on the model of Benda's \"Ariadne auf Naxos\" and \"Medea\". He believed at the time that melodrama was the way to solve the problems of operatic recitative. However, Mozart never got around to creating a duodrama. He did create a miniature melodrama within his unfinished operetta, \"Zaide\", written in 1780. Other composers who admired and were influenced by Benda's melodramas include Carl Maria von Weber and Ludwig van Beethoven.\n\nAlthough not performed often, Benda's \"Ariadne\" has remained in the performance repertoire since it first premiered and a number of recordings of the work have been made. Most recently, the work was performed in August 2005 at the Edinburgh International Festival in a double bill with Mozart's \"Zaide\". The cast included Dagmar Manzel as Ariadne and as Theseus. Charles Mackerras conducted the English National Opera orchestra.\n\nAriadne is sleeping on the shore of the island of Naxos, as Theseus, her lover, looks down on her resting form. Theseus feels there is a destiny placed upon him and feels that he can not stay tied to Ariadne and fulfill that destiny. He slips away from Ariadne on his ship, leaving her stranded alone on Naxos. Ariadne awakes to find herself deserted by the faithless Theseus. Ariadne despairs and commits suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "16639868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16639868", "title": "Attractiveness", "text": "Attractiveness\n\nAttractiveness or attraction is a quality that causes an interest, desire in, or gravitation to something or someone.\n\"Attraction\" may also refer to the object of the attraction itself, as in \"tourist attraction\".\n\nVisual attractiveness or visual appeal is attraction produced primarily by visual stimuli.\n\nPhysical attractiveness is the perception of the physical traits of an individual human person as pleasing or beautiful. It can include various implications, such as sexual attractiveness, cuteness, similarity and physique.\n\nPhysical attractiveness can also include the attraction of smell. Pheromones secreted by animals and humans alike can attract others, and this is viewed as being attracted to smell. Human sex pheromones may play a role in human attraction, although it is unclear how well humans can actually pick up on the pheromones of another. \n\nJudgment of attractiveness of physical traits is partly universal to all human cultures, partly dependent on culture or society or time period, partly biological, and partly subjective and individual.\n\nAccording to a study determining the golden ratio for facial beauty, the most attractive face is one with average distances between facial features, and an average length and width of the face itself.. Facial attractiveness, or beauty, can also be determined by symmetry. If a face is asymmetrical, this can indicate unhealthy genetic information. Therefore, if a face is symmetrical (see Facial symmetry), healthy genetic information is implied. People will judge potential mates based off the physical expression of the genetic health, which is their apparent attractiveness. This supports the good genes theory, which indicates that attractiveness is seen as a way to ensure that offspring will have the healthiest genes and therefore the best chance of survival. Certain trains that indicate good genes (such as clear skin or facial symmetry) are seen as desirable when choosing a partner.\n\nAmong animals, females often are \"choosy\" about who they pick for a mate. They will look for characteristics in their potential mates that ensure their offspring will have healthy genetic material. Therefore, they will be attracted to certain traits or behaviors of their potential mates. Attraction among animals is based mostly on what will give the females the best chance of having the most and healthiest offspring that will likely survive to adulthood because of the traits they will inherit from the male. Females will look for signs of health in the males, such as large and fancy adornments, bright colors, or other features that the male will only have if he is in good health. .\n\nEye candy is a slang term for superficial attractiveness. In a 2017 \"Boston Globe\" article about the potential for cheerleading at the Olympics, eye candy was used to describe cheerleaders as \"entertainment popularized by professional sports in the United States.\" The term has also been used in professional sports in the United States referring to female athletes.\n\n"}
{"id": "473457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473457", "title": "Bernard Bosanquet (philosopher)", "text": "Bernard Bosanquet (philosopher)\n\nBernard Bosanquet, FBA (; 14 June 1848 – 8 February 1923) was a British philosopher and political theorist, and an influential figure on matters of political and social policy in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. His work influenced but was later subject to criticism by many thinkers, notably Bertrand Russell, John Dewey and William James. Bernard was the husband of Charity Organisation Society leader Helen Bosanquet.\n\nBorn at Rock Hall near Alnwick, Bosanquet was the son of Robert William Bosanquet, a Church of England clergyman. He was educated at Harrow School and Balliol College, Oxford. After graduation, he was elected to a Fellowship at University College, Oxford, but, after receiving a substantial inheritance, resigned it in order to devote himself to philosophical research. He moved to London in 1881, where he became an active member of the London Ethical Society and the Charity Organisation Society. Both were positive demonstrations of Bosanquet's ethical philosophy. Bosanquet published on a wide range of topics, such as logic, metaphysics, aesthetics and politics. In his metaphysics, he is regarded as a key representative (with F.H. Bradley) of Absolute Idealism, although it is a term that he abandoned in favour of \"speculative philosophy.\"\n\nHe was one of the leaders of the so-called neo-Hegelian philosophical movement in Great Britain. He was strongly influenced by the ancient Greek philosophers Plato and Aristotle, but also by the German philosophers Immanuel Kant and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Among his best-known works are \"The Philosophical Theory of the State\" (1899), his Gifford lectures, \"The Principle of Individuality and Value\" (1912) and \"The Value and Destiny of the Individual\" (1913).\n\nBosanquet was president of the Aristotelian Society from 1894 to 1898.\n\nIn his \"Encyclopedia\", Section 95, Hegel had written about \"the ideality of the finite.\" This obscure, seemingly meaningless, phrase was interpreted as implying that \"what is finite is not real\" because the ideal is understood as being the opposite of the real. Bosanquet was a follower of Hegel and the \"central theme of Bosanquet's idealism was that every finite existence necessarily transcends itself and points toward other existences and finally to the whole. Thus, he advocated a system very close to that in which Hegel had argued for the ideality of the finite.\"\n\nThe relation of the finite individual to the whole state in which he/she lives was investigated in Bosanquet's \"Philosophical Theory of the State\" (London, 1899). In this book, he \"argued that the state is the real individual and that individual persons are unreal by comparison with it.\" But Bosanquet did not think that the state has a right to impose social control over its individual citizens. \"On the contrary, he believed that if society is organic and individual, then its elements can cooperate apart from a centralised organ of control, the need for which presupposes that harmony has to be imposed upon something that is naturally unharmonious.\"\n\nThe relationship between the individual and society was summarised in Bosanquet's preface to \"The Introduction to Hegel's Philosophy of Fine Art\" (1886):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17867256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17867256", "title": "Bob Meyer (logician)", "text": "Bob Meyer (logician)\n\nRobert Kenneth Meyer (27 May 1932 – 6 May 2009) was a logician and Professor Emeritus at the Australian National University.\n\nFirst trained to be a minister at the Union Congregational Church by the Princeton Theological Seminary in 1956, he completed his graduate studies in philosophy and logic at the University of Pittsburgh. He moved to Australia and joined the Australian National University in 1974. He worked in relevant logic, particularly on its semantics.\n\nHe was the Maximum Leader for the Logicians Liberation League, and drafted its manifesto.\n\nDespite his accomplishments in the areas of philosophy and logic, he fell short in the understanding of the passage of time. On one of his journeys from Philadelphia Pennsylvania to Washington DC, he estimated that the 150 mile drive would take him \"Three or four or five hours\". On one occasion he lost his passport in the USA one hour prior to his flight to Australia and estimated he had enough time to get a new one \"after a shower and a quick stop at the Barnes and Noble\".\n\nMeyer died of lung cancer on 6 May 2009, aged 76, in Canberra, Australia.\n"}
{"id": "327443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327443", "title": "Compassion", "text": "Compassion\n\nCompassion motivates people to go out of their way to help the physical, mental, or emotional pains of another and themselves. Compassion is often regarded as having sensitivity, an emotional aspect to suffering, though when based on cerebral notions such as fairness, justice, and interdependence, it may be considered rational in nature and its application understood as an activity also based on sound judgment. There is also an aspect of equal dimension, such that individual's compassion is often given a property of \"depth\", \"vigour\", or \"passion\". The etymology of \"compassion\" is Latin, meaning \"co-suffering.\" Compassion involves \"feeling for another\" and is a precursor to empathy, the \"feeling as another\" capacity for better person centered acts of active compassion; in common parlance active compassion is the desire to alleviate another's suffering.\n\nCompassion involves allowing ourselves to be moved by suffering, and experiencing the motivation to help alleviate and prevent it. An act of compassion is defined by its helpfulness. Qualities of compassion are patience and wisdom; kindness and perseverance; warmth and resolve. It is often, though not inevitably, the key component in what manifests in the social context as altruism. Expression of compassion is prone to be hierarchical, paternalistic and controlling in responses. Difference between sympathy and compassion is that the former responds to suffering with sorrow and concern while the latter responds with warmth and care.\n\nThe English noun \"compassion\", meaning \"to love together with\", comes from Latin. Its prefix \"com-\" comes directly from \"com\", an archaic version of the Latin preposition and affix cum (= with); the \"-passion\" segment is derived from \"passus\", past participle of the deponent verb patior, patī, passus sum. Compassion is thus related in origin, form and meaning to the English noun patient (= one who suffers), from \"patiens\", present participle of the same patior, and is akin to the Greek verb πάσχειν (= \"paskhein\", to suffer) and to its cognate noun πάθος (= pathos). Ranked a great virtue in numerous philosophies, compassion is considered in almost all the major religious traditions as among the greatest of virtues.\n\nTheoretical perspectives of compassion have been developed through the years, the following three proposed perspectives show contrasts in their evolution and approaches to compassion.\n\nThe more one person knows about the human condition and the associated experiences, the more vivid the route to identification with suffering becomes. Identifying with another person is an essential process for human beings, it is commonly seen throughout the world as people adapt and change with new styles of clothing, language, behavior, etc., which is even illustrated by infants who begin to mirror the facial expressions and body movements of their mother as early as the first days of their lives. Personality psychology agrees that people are inherently different and distinct from one another, which leads to the conclusion that human suffering is always individual and unique. Suffering can result from psychological, social, and physical trauma and it happens in acute forms as often as chronically. Due to the inherent differences in people's personalities some may define their early stages of suffering to their external circumstances and those life events being quiet or not discussed. The later stages may involve the person expressing their victimization and searching for help. Suffering has been defined as the perception of a person's impending destruction or loss of integrity, which continues until the threat is vanished or the person's integrity can be restored. The importance of identifying with others for compassion is contrasted by the negative physical and psychological effects of abandonment. Compassion is often a characteristic element of democratic societies. Compassion is recognized through identifying with other people, the knowledge of human behavior, the perception of suffering, transfer of feelings, knowledge of goal and purpose changes in sufferers, and leads to the absence of the suffering from the group.\n\nThe compassion process is highly related to identifying with the other person because sympathizing with others is possible among people from other countries, cultures, locations, etc. A possible source of this process of identifying with others comes from a universal category called \"Spirit.\" Toward the late 1970s, very different cultures and nations around the world took a turn to religious fundamentalism, which has occasionally been attributed to \"Spirit\". The role of compassion as a factor contributing to individual or societal behavior has been the topic of continuous debate. In contrast to the process of identifying with other people, a complete absence of compassion may require ignoring or disapproving identification with other people or groups. Earlier studies established the links between interpersonal violence and cruelty which leads to indifference. This concept has been illustrated throughout history: The Holocaust, Genocide, European colonization of the Americas, etc. The seemingly essential step in these atrocities could be the defining of the victims as \"not human\" or \"not us.\" The atrocities committed throughout human history have only been relieved through the presence of compassion.\n\nCompassion may have the ability to induce feelings of kindness and forgiveness, which could give people the ability to stop situations that have the potential to be distressing and occasionally lead to violence.\n\nCompassion has become associated with and researched in the fields of positive psychology and social psychology . The Dalai Lama once said that \"compassion is a necessity, not a luxury\" and that \"it is a question of human survival\". Compassion is a process of connecting by identifying with another person. This identification with others through compassion can lead to increased motivation to do something in an effort to relieve the suffering of others.\n\nCompassion is an evolved function from the harmony of a three grid internal system: contentment-and-peace system, goals-and-drives system and threat-and-safety system. Paul Gilbert defines these collectively as necessary regulated systems for compassion. In examination of the motivated regulation of compassion in the context of large-scale crises, such as natural disasters and genocides, much research has established that people tend to feel more compassion for single identifiable victims than large masses of victims (the Identifiable victim effect). It is found that people only show less compassion for many victims than for single victims of disasters when they expect to incur a financial cost upon helping. This collapse of compassion depends on having the motivation and ability to regulate emotions. In laboratory research, psychologists are exploring how concerns about becoming emotionally exhausted may motivate people to curb their compassion for—and dehumanize—members of stigmatized social groups, such as homeless individuals and drug addicts.\n\nCompassion consists of three major requirements: People must feel that troubles that evoke their feelings are serious, the understanding that sufferers' troubles are not self-inflicted, and ability to picture oneself with the same problems in a non-blaming and non-shaming manner.\n\nIn a 2009 small fMRI experiment, Mary Helen Immordino-Yang and colleagues at the Brain and Creativity Institute studied strong feelings of compassion for social and physical pain in others. Both feelings involved an expected change in activity in the anterior insula, anterior cingulate, hypothalamus, and midbrain, but they also found a previously undescribed pattern of cortical activity on the posterior medial surface of each brain hemisphere, a region involved in the default mode of brain function, and implicated in self-related processes. Compassion for social pain in others was associated with strong activation in the interoceptive, inferior/posterior portion of this region, while compassion for physical pain in others involved heightened activity in the exteroceptive, superior/anterior portion. Compassion for social pain activated this superior/anterior section, to a lesser extent. Activity in the anterior insula related to compassion for social pain peaked later and endured longer than that associated with compassion for physical pain. Compassionate emotions in relation to others has effects on the prefrontal cortex, inferior frontal cortex, and the midbrain. Feelings and acts of compassion have been found to simulate areas known to regulate homeostasis, such as insular cortex and hypothalamus.\n\nIn one study conducted by Jill Rilling and Gregory Berns, neuroscientists at Emory University, subjects’ brain activity was recorded while they helped someone in need. It was found that while the subjects were performing compassionate acts the caudate nucleus and anterior cingulate regions of the brain were activated, the same areas of the brain associated with pleasure and reward. This research sheds light on how acting on compassion induces a positive feeling in people and how humans are innately wired to want to help the suffering.\n\nCompassion is one of the most important attributes for physicians practicing medical services. It has been suggested that felt compassion brings about the desire to do something to help the sufferer. That desire to be helpful is not compassion, but it does suggest that compassion is similar to other emotions by motivating behaviors to reduce the tension brought on by the emotion. Physicians generally identify their central duties as the responsibility to put the patient's interests first, including the duty not to harm, deliver proper care, and maintain confidentiality. Compassion is seen in each of those duties because of its direct relation to the recognition and treatment of suffering. Physicians who use compassion understand the effects of sickness and suffering on human behavior. Compassion may be closely related to love and the emotions evoked in both. This is illustrated by the relationship between patients and physicians in medical institutions. The relationship between suffering patients and their care-givers provides evidence that compassion is a social emotion, which is highly related to closeness between individuals.\n\nAccording to Figley, individuals with a higher capacity or responsibility to empathize with others may be at risk for \"compassion fatigue\" or stress, which is related to professionals and individuals who spend a significant amount of time responding to information related to suffering. However, newer research by Singer and Ricard suggests that it is lack of suitable distress tolerance which gets people fatigued in compassion activities. Research suggests that practice of nonjudgmental compassion can prevent fatigue and burnout.\n\nSelf-compassion is a process of self kindness and accepting suffering as a quality of being human. It has positive effects on subjective happiness, optimism, wisdom, curiosity, agreeableness, and extroversion. Kristin Neff and Christopher Germer have identified that there are three levels of activities that thwart self-compassion and they are self-criticism, self-isolation and self-absorption, they equate this to fight, flight and freeze responses. It is identified that people who lack of life skill equanimity that is akin with distress tolerance are prone to such spontaneous responses. Certain activities may increase feelings of and readiness to practice self-compassion; some of these activities include creating a loving-kindness rituals, practicing empathy, practice random acts of warmth and goodwill like tonglen, etc.\n\nFor increasing compassion in the workplace to self and others \"authentic leadership\" centered on humanism and nourishing quality interconnectedness are considered as the key. Judith Jordan's concept of \"self-empathy\" is similar to self-compassion, it implies the capacity to notice, care and respond towards the ones own felt needs. The strategies of self care involve valuing oneself, thinking about one's ideations of needs compassionately, and connecting with others in order to conversely experience renewal, support and validation. Research indicates that self-compassionate individuals experience greater psychological health than those who lack self-compassion.\n\nThe ancient Greek and Roman philosophers typically distrusted (feeling) compassion. In the view of many, reason alone was the proper guide to conduct. To some, compassion was an effect, neither admirable nor contemptible. Compassion historically is considered as a passion; Justitia is blindfolded because her virtue is dispassion and not compassion. In Roman society, in fact, compassion was often seen as a vice when it was inclined toward pity, as opposed to mercy. In other words, showing empathy toward someone who was seen as deserving was considered virtuous, whereas showing empathy to someone deemed unworthy was considered immoral (weak).\n\nIn classical literature of Hinduism, compassion is a virtue with many shades, each shade explained by different terms. Three most common terms are \"daya\" (दया), \"karuna\" (करुणा), and \"anukampa\" (अनुकम्पा). Other words related to compassion in Hinduism include \"karunya\", \"kripa\", and \"anukrosha\". Some of these words are used interchangeably among the schools of Hinduism to explain the concept of compassion, its sources, its consequences, and its nature. The virtue of compassion to all living beings, claim Gandhi and others, is a central concept in Hindu philosophy.\n\n\"Daya\" is defined by Padma Purana as the virtuous desire to mitigate the sorrow and difficulties of others by putting forth whatever effort necessary. Matsya Purana describes \"daya\" as the value that treats all living beings (including human beings) as one's own self, wanting the welfare and good of the other living being. Such compassion, claims Matsya Purana, is one of necessary paths to being happy. Ekadashi Tattvam explains \"daya\" is treating a stranger, a relative, a friend and a foe as one's own self; it argues that compassion is that state when one sees all living beings as part of one's own self, and when everyone's suffering is seen as one's own suffering. Compassion to all living beings, including to those who are strangers and those who are foes, is seen as a noble virtue. \"Karuna\", another word for compassion in Hindu philosophy, means placing one's mind in other's favor, thereby seeking to understand the other from their perspective. \"Anukampa\", yet another word for compassion, refers to one's state after one has observed and understood the pain and suffering in other. In Mahabharata, Indra praises Yudhishthira for his \"anukrosha\" — compassion, sympathy — for all creatures. Tulsidas contrasts \"daya\" (compassion) with \"abhiman\" (arrogance, contempt of others), claiming compassion is a source of \"dharmic\" life, while arrogance a source of sin. \"Daya\" (compassion) is not \"kripa\" (pity) in Hinduism, or feeling sorry for the sufferer, because that is marred with condescension; compassion is feeling one with the sufferer. Compassion is the basis for ahimsa, a core virtue in Hindu philosophy.\n\nCompassion in Hinduism is discussed as an absolute and relative concept. There are two forms of compassion: one for those who suffer even though they have done nothing wrong and one for those who suffer because they did something wrong. Absolute compassion applies to both, while relative compassion addresses the difference between the former and the latter. An example of the latter include those who plead guilty or are convicted of a crime such as murder; in these cases, the virtue of compassion must be balanced with the virtue of justice.\n\nThe classical literature of Hinduism exists in many Indian languages. For example, \"Tirukkuṛaḷ,\" written between 200 BC and AD 400, and sometimes called the Tamil Veda, is a cherished classic on Hinduism written in a South Indian language. It dedicates Chapter 25 of Book 1 to compassion, further dedicating separate chapters each for the resulting values of compassion, chiefly, vegetarianism or veganism (Chapter 26), doing no harm (Chapter 32), non-killing (Chapter 33), possession of kindness (Chapter 8), dreading evil deeds (Chapter 21), benignity (Chapter 58), the right scepter (Chapter 55), and absence of terrorism (Chapter 57), to name a few.\n\nCompassion for all life, human and non-human, is central to the Jain tradition. Though all life is considered sacred, human life is deemed the highest form of earthly existence. To kill any person, no matter their crime, is considered unimaginably abhorrent. It is the only substantial religious tradition that requires both monks and laity to be vegetarian. It is suggested that certain strains of the Hindu tradition became vegetarian due to strong Jain influences. The Jain tradition's stance on nonviolence, however, goes far beyond vegetarianism. Jains refuse food obtained with unnecessary cruelty. Many practice veganism. Jains run animal shelters all over India. The Lal Mandir, a prominent Jain temple in Delhi, is known for the Jain Birds Hospital in a second building behind the main temple.\n\nIn the Jewish tradition, God is the Compassionate and is invoked as the Father of Compassion: hence \"Raḥmana\" or Compassionate becomes the usual designation for His revealed word. (Compare, below, the frequent use of \"raḥman\" in the Quran). Sorrow and pity for one in distress, creating a desire to relieve it, is a feeling ascribed alike to man and God: in Biblical Hebrew, (\"riḥam,\" from \"reḥem,\" the mother, womb), \"to pity\" or \"to show mercy\" in view of the sufferer's helplessness, hence also \"to forgive\" (Hab. iii. 2), \"to forbear\" (Ex. ii. 6; I Sam. xv. 3; Jer. xv. 15, xxi. 7). The Rabbis speak of the \"thirteen attributes of compassion.\" The Biblical conception of compassion is the feeling of the parent for the child. Hence the prophet's appeal in confirmation of his trust in God invokes the feeling of a mother for her offspring (Isa. xlix. 15).\n\nA classic articulation of the Golden Rule (see above) came from the first century Rabbi Hillel the Elder. Renowned in the Jewish tradition as a sage and a scholar, he is associated with the development of the Mishnah and the Talmud and, as such, one of the most important figures in Jewish history. Asked for a summary of the Jewish religion in the \"while standing on one leg\" meaning in the most concise terms, Hillel stated: \"That which is hateful to you, do not do to your fellow. That is the whole Torah. The rest is the explanation; go and learn.\" Post 9/11, the words of Rabbi Hillel are frequently quoted in public lectures and interviews around the world by the prominent writer on comparative religion Karen Armstrong.\n\nMany Jewish sources speak of the importance of compassion for animals. Significant rabbis who have done so include Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch, Rabbi Simhah Zissel Ziv, and Rabbi Moshe Cordovero.\n\nThe first of what in English are called the Four Noble Truths is the truth of suffering or dukkha (unsatisfactoriness or stress). Dukkha is identified as one of the three distinguishing characteristics of all conditioned existence. It arises as a consequence of the failure to adapt to change or anicca (the second characteristic) and the insubstantiality, lack of fixed identity, the horrendous lack of certainty of anatta (the third characteristic) to which all this constant change in turn gives rise. Compassion made possible by observation and accurate perception is the appropriate practical response. The ultimate and earnest wish, manifest in the Buddha, both as archetype and as historical entity, is to relieve the suffering of all living beings everywhere.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has said, \"If you want others to be happy, practice compassion. If you want to be happy, practice compassion.\" The American monk Bhikkhu Bodhi states that compassion \"supplies the complement to loving-kindness: whereas loving-kindness has the characteristic of wishing for the happiness and welfare of others, compassion has the characteristic of wishing that others be free from suffering, a wish to be extended without limits to all living beings. Like metta, compassion arises by entering into the subjectivity of others, by sharing their interiority in a deep and total way. It springs up by considering that all beings, like ourselves, wish to be free from suffering, yet despite their wishes continue to be harassed by pain, fear, sorrow, and other forms of dukkha.\"\n\nThe Christian Bible's Second Epistle to the Corinthians is but one place where God is spoken of as the \"Father of compassion\" and the \"God of all comfort.\" It reads as follows: 2 Corinthians 1:3-7 \"Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our troubles, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves received from God. For just as the sufferings of Christ flow over into our lives, so also through Christ our comfort overflows. If we are distressed, it is for your comfort and salvation; if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which produces in you patient endurance of the same sufferings we suffer. And our hope for you is firm, because we know that just as you share in our sufferings, so also you share in our comfort.\" Jesus embodies for Christians, the very essence of compassion and relational care. Christ challenges Christians to forsake their own desires and to act compassionately towards others, particularly those in need or distress. Most significantly, he demonstrated compassion to those his society had condemned - tax collectors, prostitutes and criminals.\n\nConversely, a 2012 study of the historical Jesus has claimed that the founder of Christianity sought to elevate Judaic compassion as the supreme human virtue, capable of reducing suffering and fulfilling our God-ordained purpose of transforming the world into something more worthy of its creator.\n\nIn the Muslim tradition, foremost among God's attributes are mercy and compassion or, in the canonical language of Arabic, \"Rahman\" and \"Rahim\". Each of the 114 chapters of the Quran, with one exception, begins with the verse, \"In the name of Allah the Compassionate, the Merciful.\"\n\nThe Arabic word for compassion is \"rahmah\". As a cultural influence, its roots abound in the Quran. A good Muslim is to commence each day, each prayer and each significant action by invoking Allah the Merciful and Compassionate, i.e., by reciting \"Bism-i-llah a-Rahman-i-Rahim\". The womb and family ties are characterized by compassion and named after the exalted attribute of Allah \"Al-Rahim\" (The Compassionate).\n\n"}
{"id": "40341188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40341188", "title": "Critical realism (philosophy of perception)", "text": "Critical realism (philosophy of perception)\n\nIn the philosophy of perception, critical realism is the theory that some of our sense-data (for example, those of primary qualities) can and do accurately represent external objects, properties, and events, while other of our sense-data (for example, those of secondary qualities and perceptual illusions) do not accurately represent any external objects, properties, and events. Put simply, critical realism highlights a mind-dependent aspect of the world that reaches to understand (and comes to an understanding of) the mind-independent world.\n\nAccording to Locke, some sense-data, namely the sense-data of secondary qualities, do not represent anything in the external world, even if they are caused by external qualities (primary qualities). Thus it is natural to adopt a theory of critical realism.\n\nBy its talk of sense-data and representation, this theory depends on or presupposes the truth of representationalism. If critical realism is correct, then representationalism would have to be a correct theory of perception.\n\nThe American critical realist movement was a response both to direct realism, as well as to idealism and pragmatism. In very broad terms, American critical realism was a form of representative realism, in which there are objects that stand as mediators between independent real objects and perceivers. Prominent developers of American critical realism are Roy Wood Sellars and his son Wilfrid Sellars.\n\nOne innovation was that these mediators are not ideas (British empiricism), but properties, essences, or \"character complexes\".\n\nSimilar developments occurred in the UK. Major figures included Samuel Alexander, John Cook Wilson, H. A. Prichard, H. H. Price, and C. D. Broad.\n\nNicolai Hartmann renewed the interest in the critical realist theory in Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "47922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47922", "title": "Determinism", "text": "Determinism\n\nDeterminism is the philosophical idea that all events, including moral choices, are determined completely by previously existing causes. Determinism is at times understood to preclude free will because it entails that humans cannot act otherwise than they do. It can also be called as hard determinism from this point of view. Hard determinism is a position on the relationship of determinism to free will. The theory holds that the universe is utterly rational because complete knowledge of any given situation assures that unerring knowledge of its future is also possible. Some philosophers suggest variants around this basic definition. Deterministic theories throughout the history of philosophy have sprung from diverse and sometimes overlapping motives and considerations. The opposite of determinism is some kind of indeterminism (otherwise called nondeterminism). Determinism is often contrasted with free will.\n\nDeterminism often is taken to mean \"causal determinism\", which in physics is known as cause-and-effect. It is the concept that events within a given paradigm are bound by causality in such a way that any state (of an object or event) is completely determined by prior states. This meaning can be distinguished from other varieties of determinism mentioned below.\n\nOther debates often concern the scope of determined systems, with some maintaining that the entire universe is a single determinate system and others identifying other more limited determinate systems (or multiverse). Numerous historical debates involve many philosophical positions and varieties of determinism. They include debates concerning determinism and free will, technically denoted as compatibilistic (allowing the two to coexist) and incompatibilistic (denying their coexistence is a possibility). Determinism should not be confused with self-determination of human actions by reasons, motives, and desires. Determinism rarely requires that perfect prediction be practically possible.\n\n\"Determinism\" may commonly refer to any of the following viewpoints:\n\nAlthough some of the above forms of determinism concern human behaviors and cognition, others frame themselves as an answer to the debate on nature and nurture. They will suggest that one factor will entirely determine behavior. As scientific understanding has grown, however, the strongest versions of these theories have been widely rejected as a single-cause fallacy.\n\nIn other words, the modern deterministic theories attempt to explain how the interaction of both nature \"and\" nurture is entirely predictable. The concept of heritability has been helpful in making this distinction.\n\nBiological determinism, sometimes called genetic determinism, is the idea that each of human behaviors, beliefs, and desires are fixed by human genetic nature.\n\nBehaviorism involves the idea that all behavior can be traced to specific causes—either environmental or reflexive. John B. Watson and B. F. Skinner developed this nurture-focused determinism.\n\nCultural determinism or social determinism is the nurture-focused theory that the culture in which we are raised determines who we are.\n\nEnvironmental determinism, also known as climatic or geographical determinism, proposes that the physical environment, rather than social conditions, determines culture. Supporters of environmental determinism often also support Behavioral determinism. Key proponents of this notion have included Ellen Churchill Semple, Ellsworth Huntington, Thomas Griffith Taylor and possibly Jared Diamond, although his status as an environmental determinist is debated.\n\nOther 'deterministic' theories actually seek only to highlight the importance of a particular factor in predicting the future. These theories often use the factor as a sort of guide or constraint on the future. They need not suppose that complete knowledge of that one factor would allow us to make perfect predictions.\n\nPsychological determinism can mean that humans must act according to reason, but it can also be synonymous with some sort of Psychological egoism. The latter is the view that humans will always act according to their perceived best interest.\n\nLinguistic determinism claims that our language determines (at least limits) the things we can think and say and thus know. The Sapir–Whorf hypothesis argues that individuals experience the world based on the grammatical structures they habitually use.\n\nEconomic determinism attributes primacy to economic structure over politics in the development of human history. It is associated with the dialectical materialism of Karl Marx.\n\nTechnological determinism is a reductionist theory that presumes that a society's technology drives the development of its social structure and cultural values.\n\nPhilosophers have debated both the truth of determinism, and the truth of free will. This creates the four possible positions in the figure. Compatibilism refers to the view that free will is, in some sense, compatible with determinism. The three incompatibilist positions, on the other hand, deny this possibility. The hard incompatibilists hold that both determinism and free will do not exist, the libertarianists that determinism does not hold, and free will might exist, and the hard determinists that determinism does hold and free will does not exist.\n\nThe standard argument against free will, according to philosopher J. J. C. Smart focuses on the implications of determinism for 'free will'. However, he suggests free will is denied whether determinism is true or not. On one hand, if determinism is true, all our actions are predicted and we are assumed not to be free; on the other hand, if determinism is false, our actions are presumed to be random and as such we do not seem free because we had no part in controlling what happened.\n\nIn his book, \"The Moral Landscape\", author and neuroscientist Sam Harris also argues against free will. He offers one thought experiment where a mad scientist represents determinism. In Harris' example, the mad scientist uses a machine to control all the desires, and thus all the behavior, of a particular human. Harris believes that it is no longer as tempting, in this case, to say the victim has \"free will\". Harris says nothing changes if the machine controls desires at random - the victim still seems to lack free will. Harris then argues that we are also the victims of such unpredictable desires (but due to the unconscious machinations of our brain, rather than those of a mad scientist). Based on this introspection, he writes \"This discloses the real mystery of free will: if our experience is compatible with its utter absence, how can we say that we see any evidence for it in the first place?\" adding that \"Whether they are predictable or not, we do not cause our causes.\" That is, he believes there is compelling evidence of absence of free will.\n\nSome determinists argue that materialism does not present a complete understanding of the universe, because while it can describe determinate interactions among material things, it ignores the minds or souls of conscious beings.\n\nA number of positions can be delineated:\n\n\nAnother topic of debate is the implication that Determinism has on morality. Hard determinism (a belief in determinism, and not free will) is particularly criticized for seeming to make traditional moral judgments impossible. Some philosophers, however, find this an acceptable conclusion.\n\nPhilosopher and incompatibilist Peter van Inwagen introduces this thesis as such:\n\nArgument that Free Will is Required for Moral Judgments\n\nHowever, a compatibilist might have an issue with Inwagen's process because one can not change the past like his arguments center around. A compatibilist who centers around plans for the future might posit:\n\nDeterminism has been established by the Greek philosophers, during the 7th and 6th centuries BC by the Presocratics Heraclitus, Leucippus and mainly by the Stoics with the universal causal determinism and Aristotle. Some of the main philosophers who have dealt with this issue are Marcus Aurelius, Omar Khayyám, Thomas Hobbes, Baruch Spinoza, Gottfried Leibniz, David Hume, Baron d'Holbach (Paul Heinrich Dietrich), Pierre-Simon Laplace, Arthur Schopenhauer, William James, Friedrich Nietzsche, Albert Einstein, Niels Bohr, Ralph Waldo Emerson and, more recently, John Searle, Sam Harris, Ted Honderich, and Daniel Dennett.\n\nMecca Chiesa notes that the probabilistic or selectionistic determinism of B.F. Skinner comprised a wholly separate conception of determinism that was not mechanistic at all. Mechanistic determinism assumes that every event has an unbroken chain of prior occurrences, but a selectionistic or probabilistic model does not.\n\nIn the West, some elements of determinism have been expressed in Greece from the 6th century BC by the Presocratics Heraclitus and Leucippus. The first full-fledged notion of determinism appears to originate with the Stoics, as part of their theory of universal causal determinism. The resulting philosophical debates, which involved the confluence of elements of Aristotelian Ethics with Stoic psychology, led in the 1st-3rd centuries CE in the works of Alexander of Aphrodisias to the first recorded Western debate over determinism and freedom, an issue that is known in theology as the paradox of free will. The writings of Epictetus as well as Middle Platonist and early Christian thought were instrumental in this development. The Jewish philosopher Moses Maimonides said of the deterministic implications of an omniscient god: \"Does God know or does He not know that a certain individual will be good or bad? If thou sayest 'He knows', then it necessarily follows that [that] man is compelled to act as God knew beforehand he would act, otherwise God's knowledge would be imperfect.…\"\n\nDeterminism in the West is often associated with Newtonian physics, which depicts the physical matter of the universe as operating according to a set of fixed, knowable laws. The \"billiard ball\" hypothesis, a product of Newtonian physics, argues that once the initial conditions of the universe have been established, the rest of the history of the universe follows inevitably. If it were actually possible to have complete knowledge of physical matter and all of the laws governing that matter at any one time, then it would be theoretically possible to compute the time and place of every event that will ever occur (\"Laplace's demon\"). In this sense, the basic particles of the universe operate in the same fashion as the rolling balls on a billiard table, moving and striking each other in predictable ways to produce predictable results.\n\nWhether or not it is all-encompassing in so doing, Newtonian mechanics deals only with caused events, e.g.: If an object begins in a known position and is hit dead on by an object with some known velocity, then it will be pushed straight toward another predictable point. If it goes somewhere else, the Newtonians argue, one must question one's measurements of the original position of the object, the exact direction of the striking object, gravitational or other fields that were inadvertently ignored, etc. Then, they maintain, repeated experiments and improvements in accuracy will always bring one's observations closer to the theoretically predicted results. When dealing with situations on an ordinary human scale, Newtonian physics has been so enormously successful that it has no competition. But it fails spectacularly as velocities become some substantial fraction of the speed of light and when interactions at the atomic scale are studied. Before the discovery of quantum effects and other challenges to Newtonian physics, \"uncertainty\" was always a term that applied to the accuracy of human knowledge about causes and effects, and not to the causes and effects themselves.\n\nNewtonian mechanics as well as any following physical theories are results of observations and experiments, and so they describe \"how it all works\" within a tolerance. However, old western scientists believed if there are any logical connections found between an observed cause and effect, there must be also some absolute natural laws behind. Belief in perfect natural laws driving everything, instead of just describing what we should expect, led to searching for a set of universal simple laws that rule the world. This movement significantly encouraged deterministic views in western philosophy, as well as the related theological views of Classical Pantheism.\n\nThe idea that the entire universe is a deterministic system has been articulated in both Eastern and non-Eastern religion, philosophy, and literature.\n\nIn \"I Ching\" and Philosophical Taoism, the ebb and flow of favorable and unfavorable conditions suggests the path of least resistance is effortless (see wu wei).\n\nIn the philosophical schools of India, the concept of precise and continual effect of laws of Karma on the existence of all sentient beings is analogous to western deterministic concept. Karma is the concept of \"action\" or \"deed\" in Indian religions. It is understood as that which causes the entire cycle of cause and effect (i.e., the cycle called saṃsāra) originating in ancient India and treated in Hindu, Jain, and Sikh. Karma is considered predetermined and deterministic in the universe, and in combination with the decisions (free will) of living beings, accumulates to determine futuristic situations that the living being encounters. See Karma in Hinduism.\n\nAlthough it was once thought by scientists that any indeterminism in quantum mechanics occurred at too small a scale to influence biological or neurological systems, there is indication that nervous systems are influenced by quantum indeterminism due to chaos theory. It is unclear what implications this has for the problem of free will given various possible reactions to the problem in the first place. Many biologists don't grant determinism: Christof Koch argues against it, and in favour of libertarian free will, by making arguments based on generative processes (emergence). Other proponents of emergentist or generative philosophy, cognitive sciences and evolutionary psychology, argue that a certain form of determinism (not necessarily causal) is true. They suggest instead that an illusion of free will is experienced due to the generation of infinite behaviour from the interaction of finite-deterministic set of rules and parameters. Thus the unpredictability of the emerging behaviour from deterministic processes leads to a perception of free will, even though free will as an ontological entity does not exist. Certain experiments looking at the neuroscience of free will can be said to support this possibility.\n\nAs an illustration, the strategy board-games chess and Go have rigorous rules in which no information (such as cards' face-values) is hidden from either player and no random events (such as dice-rolling) happen within the game. Yet, chess and especially Go with its extremely simple deterministic rules, can still have an extremely large number of unpredictable moves. When chess is simplified to 7 or fewer pieces, however, endgame tables are available that dictate which moves to play to achieve a perfect game. This implies that, given a less complex environment (with the original 32 pieces reduced to 7 or fewer pieces), a perfectly predictable game of chess is possible. In this scenario, the winning player can announce that a checkmate will happen within a given number of moves, assuming a perfect defense by the losing player, or fewer moves if the defending player chooses sub-optimal moves as the game progresses into its inevitable, predicted conclusion. By this analogy, it is suggested, the experience of free will emerges from the interaction of finite rules and deterministic parameters that generate nearly infinite and practically unpredictable behavioural responses. In theory, if all these events could be accounted for, and there were a known way to evaluate these events, the seemingly unpredictable behaviour would become predictable. Another hands-on example of generative processes is John Horton Conway's playable Game of Life. Nassim Taleb is wary of such models, and coined the term \"ludic fallacy\".\n\nCertain philosophers of science argue that while causal determinism in which everything including the brain/mind is subject to the laws of causality is compatible with minds capable of science, fatalism and predestination is not. These philosophers make the distinction that causal determinism means that each step is determined by the step before and therefore allows sensory input from observational data to determine what conclusions the brain reaches, while fatalism in which the steps between do not connect an initial cause to the results would make it impossible for observational data to correct false hypotheses. This is often combined with the argument that if the brain had fixed views and the arguments were mere after-constructs with no causal effect on the conclusions, science would have been impossible and the use of arguments would have been a meaningless waste of energy with no persuasive effect on brains with fixed views.\n\nMany mathematical models of physical systems are deterministic. This is true of most models involving differential equations (notably, those measuring rate of change over time). Mathematical models that are not deterministic because they involve randomness are called stochastic. Because of sensitive dependence on initial conditions, some deterministic models may appear to behave non-deterministically; in such cases, a deterministic interpretation of the model may not be useful due to numerical instability and a finite amount of precision in measurement. Such considerations can motivate the consideration of a stochastic model even though the underlying system is governed by deterministic equations.\n\nSince the beginning of the 20th century, quantum mechanics—the physics of the extremely small—has revealed previously concealed aspects of events. Before that, Newtonian physics—the physics of everyday life—dominated. Taken in isolation (rather than as an approximation to quantum mechanics), Newtonian physics depicts a universe in which objects move in perfectly determined ways. At the scale where humans exist and interact with the universe, Newtonian mechanics remain useful, and make relatively accurate predictions (e.g. calculating the trajectory of a bullet). But whereas in theory, absolute knowledge of the forces accelerating a bullet would produce an absolutely accurate prediction of its path, modern quantum mechanics casts reasonable doubt on this main thesis of determinism.\n\nRelevant is the fact that certainty is never absolute in practice (and not just because of David Hume's problem of induction). The equations of Newtonian mechanics can exhibit sensitive dependence on initial conditions. This is an example of the butterfly effect, which is one of the subjects of chaos theory. The idea is that something even as small as a butterfly could cause a chain reaction leading to a hurricane years later. Consequently, even a very small error in knowledge of initial conditions can result in arbitrarily large deviations from predicted behavior. Chaos theory thus explains why it may be practically impossible to predict real life, whether determinism is true or false. On the other hand, the issue may not be so much about human abilities to \"predict\" or attain \"certainty\" as much as it is the nature of reality itself. For that, a closer, scientific look at nature is necessary.\n\nQuantum physics works differently in many ways from Newtonian physics. Physicist Aaron D. O'Connell explains that understanding our universe, at such small scales as atoms, requires a different logic than day-to-day life does. O'Connell does not deny that it is all interconnected: the scale of human existence ultimately does emerge from the quantum scale. O'Connell argues that we must simply use different models and constructs when dealing with the quantum world. Quantum mechanics is the product of a careful application of the scientific method, logic and empiricism. The Heisenberg uncertainty principle is frequently confused with the observer effect. The uncertainty principle actually describes how precisely we may measure the position and momentum of a particle at the same time — if we increase the accuracy in measuring one quantity, we are forced to lose accuracy in measuring the other. \"These uncertainty relations give us that measure of freedom from the limitations of classical concepts which is necessary for a consistent description of atomic processes.\"\nThis is where statistical mechanics come into play, and where physicists begin to require rather unintuitive mental models: A particle's path simply cannot be exactly specified in its full quantum description. \"Path\" is a classical, practical attribute in our every day life, but one that quantum particles do not meaningfully possess. The probabilities discovered in quantum mechanics do nevertheless arise from measurement (of the perceived path of the particle). As Stephen Hawking explains, the result is not traditional determinism, but rather determined probabilities. In some cases, a quantum particle may indeed trace an exact path, and the probability of finding the particles in that path is one (certain to be true). In fact, as far as prediction goes, the quantum development is at least as predictable as the classical motion, but the key is that it describes wave functions that cannot be easily expressed in ordinary language. As far as the thesis of determinism is concerned, these probabilities, at least, are quite determined. These findings from quantum mechanics have found many applications, and allow us to build transistors and lasers. Put another way: personal computers, Blu-ray players and the internet all work because humankind discovered the determined probabilities of the quantum world. None of that should be taken to imply that other aspects of quantum mechanics are not still up for debate.\n\nOn the topic of predictable probabilities, the double-slit experiments are a popular example. Photons are fired one-by-one through a double-slit apparatus at a distant screen. Curiously, they do not arrive at any single point, nor even the two points lined up with the slits (the way you might expect of bullets fired by a fixed gun at a distant target). Instead, the light arrives in varying concentrations at widely separated points, and the distribution of its collisions with the target can be calculated reliably. In that sense the behavior of light in this apparatus is deterministic, but there is no way to predict where in the resulting interference pattern any individual photon will make its contribution (although, there may be ways to use weak measurement to acquire more information without violating the Uncertainty principle).\n\nSome (including Albert Einstein) argue that our inability to predict any more than probabilities is simply due to ignorance. The idea is that, beyond the conditions and laws we can observe or deduce, there are also hidden factors or \"hidden variables\" that determine \"absolutely\" in which order photons reach the detector screen. They argue that the course of the universe is absolutely determined, but that humans are screened from knowledge of the determinative factors. So, they say, it only appears that things proceed in a merely probabilistically determinative way. In actuality, they proceed in an absolutely deterministic way.\n\nJohn S. Bell criticized Einstein's work in his famous Bell's Theorem, which proved that quantum mechanics can make statistical predictions that would be violated if local hidden variables really existed. A number of experiments have tried to verify such predictions, and so far they do not appear to be violated. Improved continue to verify the result, including the 2015 \"\" that plugged all known sources of error and the 2017 \"\" that based the experiment cosmic data streaming from different directions toward the Earth, precluding the possibility the sources of data could have had prior interactions. However, it is possible to augment quantum mechanics with non-local hidden variables to achieve a deterministic theory that is in agreement with experiment. An example is the Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics. Bohm's Interpretation, though, violates special relativity and it is highly controversial whether or not it can be reconciled without giving up on determinism.\n\nMore advanced variations on these arguments include Quantum contextuality, by Bell, Simon B. Kochen and Ernst Specker in which argues that hidden variable theories cannot be \"sensible,\" which here means that the values of the hidden variables inherently depend on the devices used to measure them.\n\nThis debate is relevant because it is easy to imagine specific situations in which the arrival of an electron at a screen at a certain point and time would trigger one event, whereas its arrival at another point would trigger an entirely different event (e.g. see Schrödinger's cat - a thought experiment used as part of a deeper debate).\n\nThus, quantum physics casts reasonable doubt on the traditional determinism of classical, Newtonian physics in so far as reality does not seem to be absolutely determined. This was the subject of the famous Bohr–Einstein debates between Einstein and Niels Bohr and there is still no consensus.\n\nAdequate determinism (see Varieties, above) is the reason that Stephen Hawking calls Libertarian free will \"just an illusion\". see Free will for further discussions on this topic.\n\nAll uranium found on earth is thought to have been synthesized during a supernova explosion that occurred roughly 5 billion years ago. Even before the laws of quantum mechanics were developed to their present level, the radioactivity of such elements has posed a challenge to determinism due to its unpredictability. One gram of uranium-238, a commonly occurring radioactive substance, contains some 2.5 x 10 atoms. Each of these atoms are identical and indistinguishable according to all tests known to modern science. Yet about 12600 times a second, one of the atoms in that gram will decay, giving off an alpha particle. The challenge for determinism is to explain why and when decay occurs, since it does not seem to depend on external stimulus. Indeed, no extant theory of physics makes testable predictions of exactly when any given atom will decay. At best scientists can discover determined probabilities in the form of the element's half life.\n\nThe time dependent Schrödinger equation gives the first time derivative of the quantum state. That is, it explicitly and uniquely predicts the development of the wave function with time.\nSo if the wave function itself is reality (rather than probability of classical coordinates), then the unitary evolution of the wave function in quantum mechanics, can be said to be deterministic. But the unitary evolution of the wave function is not the entirety of quantum mechanics.\n\nAsserting that quantum mechanics is deterministic by treating the wave function itself as reality might be thought to imply a single wave function for the entire universe, starting at the origin of the universe. Such a \"wave function of everything\" would carry the probabilities of not just the world we know, but every other possible world that could have evolved. For example, large voids in the distributions of galaxies are believed by many cosmologists to have originated in quantum fluctuations during the big bang. (\"See\" cosmic inflation, primordial fluctuations and large-scale structure of the cosmos.)\n\nHowever, neither the posited reality nor the proven and extraordinary accuracy of the wave function and quantum mechanics at small scales can imply or reasonably suggest the existence of a single wave function for the entire universe. Quantum mechanics breaks down wherever gravity becomes significant, because nothing in the wave function, or in quantum mechanics, predicts anything at all about gravity. And this is obviously of great importance on larger scales.\n\nGravity is thought of as a large-scale force, with a longer reach than any other. But gravity becomes significant even at masses that are tiny compared to the mass of the universe.\n\nA wave function the size of the universe might successfully model a universe with no gravity. Our universe, with gravity, is vastly different from what quantum mechanics alone predicts. To forget this is a colossal error.\n\nObjective collapse theories, which involve a dynamic (and non-deterministic) collapse of the wave function (e.g. Ghirardi–Rimini–Weber theory, Penrose interpretation, or causal fermion systems) avoid these absurdities. The theory of causal fermion systems for example, is able to unify quantum mechanics, general relativity and quantum field theory, via a more fundamental theory that is non-linear, but gives rise to the linear behaviour of the wave function and also gives rise to the non-linear, non-deterministic, wave-function collapse. These theories suggest that a deeper understanding of the theory underlying quantum mechanics shows the universe is indeed non-deterministic at a fundamental level.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8642073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8642073", "title": "Diderik Batens", "text": "Diderik Batens\n\nDiderik Batens (born 15 November 1944), is a Belgian logician and epistemologist at the University of Ghent, known chiefly for his work on adaptive and paraconsistent logics. His epistemological views may be broadly characterized as fallibilist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1280290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1280290", "title": "Dignāga", "text": "Dignāga\n\nDignāga (a.k.a. \"Diṅnāga\", c. 480 – c. 540 CE) was an Indian Buddhist scholar and one of the Buddhist founders of Indian logic (\"hetu vidyā\"). Dignāga's work laid the groundwork for the development of deductive logic in India and created the first system of Buddhist logic and epistemology (Pramana). \n\nAccording to Georges B Dreyfus, his philosophical school brought about an Indian \"epistemological turn\" and became the \"standard formulation of Buddhist logic and epistemology in India and Tibet.\" Dignāga's thought influenced later Buddhist philosophers like Dharmakirti and also Hindu thinkers of the Nyaya school. Dignāga's epistemology accepted only \"perception\" (pratyaksa) and \"inference\" (anumāṇa) are valid instruments of knowledge and introduced the widely influential theory of \"exclusion\" (\"apoha\") to explain linguistic meaning. His work on language, inferential reasoning and perception were also widely influential among later Indian philosophers. According to Richard P. Hayes \"some familiarity with Dinnaga's arguments and conclusions is indispensable for anyone who wishes to understand the historical development of Indian thought.\"\n\nDignāga was born in Simhavakta near Kanchipuram and very little is known of his early years, except that he took as his spiritual preceptor Nagadatta of the Pudgalavada school before being expelled and becoming a student of Vasubandhu. \n\nDignāga mature philosophy is expounded in his \"magnum opus\", the Pramāṇa-samuccaya. In chapter one, Dignāga's explains his epistemology which holds that there are only two 'instruments of knowledge' or 'valid cognitions' (\"pramāṇa\"); \"perception\" or \"sensation\" (pratyaksa) and \"inference\" or \"reasoning\" (anumāṇa). In chapter one, Dignāga writes:\n\nSensation and reasoning are the only two means of acquiring knowledge, because two attributes are knowable; there is no knowable object other than the peculiar and the general attribute. I shall show that sensation has the peculiar attribute as its subject matter, while reasoning has the general attribute as its subject matter.\n\nPerception is a non-conceptual knowing of particulars which is bound by causality, while inference is reasonable, linguistic and conceptual. This conservative epistemic theory was in contrast to the Nyaya school who accepted other means of knowledge such as \"Upamāṇa\" (comparison and analogy).\n\nPratyaksa is a kind of awareness that acquires information about particulars, and is immediately present to one of the senses. This is the topic of the first chapter of the \"Pramāṇa-samuccaya.\" For Dignāga, perception is pre-verbal, pre-conceptual and unstructured sense data. In chapter two of the \"Pramāṇa-samuccaya\" he writes:\n\nSensation is devoid of structure. That cognition in which there is no structure is sensation. What kind of thing is this so-called structure? Attaching a name, a universal and so forth.\n\nAccording to Dignāga our mind always takes raw sense data or particulars and interprets them or groups them together in more complex ways, compares them to past experiences, gives them names to classify them based on general attributes (\"samanyalaksana\") and so forth. This process he terms \"kalpana\" (arranging, structuring). This cognitive process is already different than sensation, which is a simple cognition based only on the immediately present. Thus pratyaksa is only awareness of particular sense data such as a patch of green color and the sensation of hardness, never awareness of a macroscopic object such an apple which is always a higher level synthesis. For Dignāga, sensation is also inerrant, it cannot \"stray\" because it is the most basic and simple phenomenon of experience or as he puts it:\n\n\"it is impossible too for the object of awareness itself to be errant, for errancy is only the content of misinterpretation by the mind.\"\n\nAlso, for Dignaga, \"pratyaksa\" is mostly phenomenalist and is not dependent on the existence of an external world. It is also inexpressible and private.\n\"Anumana\" (inference or reasoning) for Dignāga is a type of cognition which is only aware of general attributes, and is constructed out of simpler sensations. Inference can also be communicated through linguistic conventions. \n\nA central issue which concerned Dignāga was the interpretation of signs (\"linga\") or the evidence (\"hetu\") which led one to an inference (\"anumana\") about states of affairs; such as how smoke can lead one to infer that there is a fire. This topic of \"svārthānumāna\" (reasoning, literally \"inference for oneself\") is the subject of chapter two of the Pramāṇa-samuccaya while the topic of the third chapter is about demonstration (\"parārthānumāna\", literally \"inference for others\"), that is, how one communicates one's inferences through proper argument. \n\nAccording to Richard Hayes, in Dignāga's system, to obtain knowledge that a property (the \"inferable property\", \"sadhya\") is inherent in a \"subject of inference\" (\"paksa\") it must be derived through an inferential sign (\"linga\"). For this to occur, the following must be true: \n\n\nRichard Hayes interprets these criteria as overly strict and this is because he sees Dignāga's system as one of rational skepticism. Dignāga's epistemology, argues Hayes, is a way to express and practice the traditional Buddhist injunction not become attached to views and opinions. According to Hayes, for Dignāga, the role of logic is:\n\nto counter dogmatism and prejudice. As a weapon in the battle against prejudice that rages in every mind that seeks wisdom--in minds of the vast majority of people who do not seek wisdom, prejudice simply takes full control without a contest-there is nothing as powerful as the kind of reason that lies at the heart of Dignaga's system of logic. For it should be clear that very few of our judgments in ordinary life pass the standards set by the three characteristics of legitimate' evidence. Taken in its strictest interpretation, none of the judgments of any but a fully omniscient being passes. And, since there is no evidence that there exist any fully omniscient beings, the best available working hypothesis is that no one's thinking is immune from errors that require revision in the face of newly discovered realities.\n\nDignāga considered the interpretation of conventional and symbolic signs such as the words and sentences of human language to be no more than special or conventional instances of the general principles of inference or anumana. He takes up several issues relating to language and its relationship to inference in the fifth chapter of his \"Pramāṇa-samuccaya\". \n\nDuring Dignāga's time, the orthodox Indian Nyaya school and also Hindu Sanskrit grammarians (such as Bhartṛhari) had discussed issues of epistemology and language respectively, but their theories generally accepted the concept of universals which was rejected by most Buddhist philosophers. Influenced by the work of these thinkers as well as by Buddhist philosophers of the Sautrantika school who rejected Hindu theories of universals in favor of nominalism (\"prajñapti\"), Dignāga developed his own Buddhist theory of language and meaning based on the concept of \"apoha\" (exclusion). Hattori Masaaki explains the doctrine thus: \n\na word indicates an object merely through the exclusion of other objects (\"anyapoha\", \"-vyavrtti\"). For example, the word \"cow\" simply means that the object is not a non-cow. As such, a word cannot denote anything real, whether it be an individual (vyakti), a universal (jati), or any other thing. The apprehension of an object by means of the exclusion of other objects is nothing but an inference. \n\nAs noted by Hayes, the difficulty in studying the highly terse works of Dignāga is considerable, because none of them have survived in the original Sanskrit and the Tibetan and Chinese translations which do survive show signs of having been done by translators who were not completely certain of the meaning of the work. This difficulty has also led scholars to read Dignaga through the lens of later authors such as Dharmakirti and their Indian and Tibetan interpreters as well as their Hindu Nyaya opponents. Because of this tendency in scholarship, ideas which are actually innovations of Dharmakirti and later authors have often been associated with Dignaga by scholars such as Fyodor Shcherbatskoy and S. Mookerjee, even though these thinkers often differ. \n\nDignāga's \"magnum opus\", the \"Pramāṇa-samuccaya\" (\"Compendium of Valid Cognition\"), examined perception, language and inferential reasoning. It presents perception as a bare cognition, devoid of conceptualization and sees language as useful fictions created through a process of exclusion (Apoha).\n\nOther works include:\n\n\n\n\n\nDignāga founded a tradition of Buddhist logic, and this school is sometimes called the \"School of Dignāga\" or the \"Dignāga-Dharmakīrti school\". In Tibetan it is often called “those who follow reasoning” (Tibetan: \"rigs pa rjes su ‘brang ba\"); in modern literature it is sometimes known by the Sanskrit 'pramāṇavāda', often translated as \"the Epistemological School\" or \"The logico-epistemological school.\"\n\nBuddhist philosophers who wrote on pramana include:\n\n\nThis tradition of logic and epistemology continued in Tibet, where it was expanded by thinkers such as Cha-ba (1182–1251) and Sakya Pandita (1182–1251).\n\nDignaga also influenced non-Buddhist Sanskrit thinkers. According to Lawrence J. McCrea, and Parimal G. Patil, Dignaga set in motion an \"epistemic turn\" in Indian philosophy:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18674746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18674746", "title": "East Mountain Teaching", "text": "East Mountain Teaching\n\nEast Mountain Teaching () denotes the teachings of the Fourth Ancestor Dayi Daoxin, his student and heir the Fifth Ancestor Daman Hongren, and their students and lineage of Chan Buddhism.\n\n\"East Mountain Teaching\" gets its name from the East Mountain Temple on the \"Twin Peaks\" () of Huangmei (modern Hubei). The East Mountain Temple was on the easternmost peak of the two. Its modern name is Wuzu Temple ().\n\nThe two most famous disciples of Hongren, Huineng and Yuquan Shenxiu, both continued the East Mountain teaching.\n\nThe East Mountain School was established by Daoxin ( 580–651) at East Mountain Temple on Potou (Broken Head) Mountain, which was later renamed Shuangfeng (Twin Peaks). Daoxin taught there for 30 years. He established the first monastic home for \"Bodhidharma's Zen\".\n\nThe tradition holds that Hongren ( 601–674) left home at an early age (between seven and fourteen) and lived at East Mountain Temple on Twin Peaks, where Daoxiin was the abbot.\nThe East Mountain community was a specialized meditation training centre. The establishment of a community in one location was a change from the wandering lives of Bodhidharma and Huike and their followers. It fitted better into the Chinese society, which highly valued community-oriented behaviour, instead of solitary practice\n\nAn important aspect of the East Mountain Teachings was its nonreliance on a single sutra or a single set of sutras for its doctrinal foundation as was done by most of the other Buddhist sects of the time.\n\nThe East Mountain School incorporated both the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" and the \"Mahaprajnaparamita Sutras\".\n\nThe view of the mind in the \"Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana\" also had a significant import on the doctrinal development of the East Mountain Teaching.:\n\nThere were three main meditation techniques taught by this school. One was a meditation on śūnyatā \"emptiness\" in which one contemplates all dharmas of body and mind as empty. Another practice was the contemplation of some 'ultimate principle', this was associated with the 'one-practice samadhi' () and in some texts such as the \"Lengqie shizi ji\" is achieved by meditating on a single Buddha. The third technique was the practice of concentrating the mind on one thing (\"guan yi wu\") until the mind becomes fixed in samadhi. The goal of all of these practices was to suppress the stream of thoughts which clouds the mind and allow the practitioner to gain insight into the pure, radiant consciousness in everyone.\n\nDaoxin is credited with several important innovations that led directly to the ability of Chan to become a popular religion. Among his most important contributions were:\n\nHongren was a plain meditation teacher, who taught students of \"various religious interests\", including \"practitioners of the Lotus Sutra, students of Madhyamaka philosophy, or specialists in the monastic regulations of Buddhist Vinaya\".\n\nFollowing Daoxin, Hongren included an emphasis on the Mahaprajnaparamita Sutras, including the \"Heart Sutra\" and the \"Diamond Sutra\", along with the emphasis on the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\".\n\nThough Hongren was known for not compiling writings and for teaching Zen principles orally, the classical Chan text \"Discourse on the Highest Vehicle\", is attributed to him. This work emphasizes the practice of \"maintaining the original true mind\" that \"naturally cuts off the arising of delusion.\"\n\nOriginally Shenxiu was considered to be the \"Sixth Patriarch\", carrying the mantle of Bodhidharma's Zen through the East Mountain School. After the death of Shenxiu, his student Shenhui started a campaign to establish Huineng as the Sixth Ancestor. Eventually Shenhui's position won the day, and Huineng was recognized as the Sixth Patriarch.\n\nThe successful promulgation of Shenhui's views led to Shenxiu's branch being widely referred to by others as the \"Northern School.\" This nomenclature has continued in western scholarship, which for the most part has largely viewed Chinese Zen through the lens of southern Chan.\n\nThe terms Northern and Southern have little to do with geography:\nThe basic difference is between approaches. Shenhui characterised the Northern School as employing \"gradual teachings\", while his Southern school employed \"sudden teachings\":\nThe term \"East Mountain Teaching\" is seen as more culturally and historically appropriate.\n\nBut the characterization of Shenxiu's East Mountain Teaching as gradualist is argued to be unfounded in light of the documents found amongst Dunhuang manuscripts recovered from the Mogao Caves near Dunhuang. Shenhui's Southern School incorporated Northern teachings as well, and Shenhui himself admittedly saw the need of further practice after initial awakening.\n\nYuquan Shenxiu's prominent position in the history of Chán, despite the popular narrative, is recognized by modern scholarship:\nKuiken (undated: p. 17) in discussing a Dunhuang document of the Tang monk and meditator, 'Jingjue' (靜覺, 683- ca. 750) states:\nJingjue's Record introduces Hongren of Huangmei 黃梅宏忍 (d.u.) as the main teacher in the sixth generation of the 'southern' or 'East Mountain' meditation tradition. Shenxiu is mentioned as Hongren's authorized successor. In Shenxiu's shadow, Jingjue mentions 'old An' 老安 (see A) as a 'seasoned' meditation teacher and some minor 'local disciples' of Hongren.\n\nShenxiu wrote a treatise on meditation called the \"Kuan-hsin lun\" (\"treatise on contemplating the mind\"). It combines some of the meditation practices taught by Zhiyi with ideas from the Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana.\n\nThe story of Huineng is famously worded in the \"Platform Sutra\", a text which originated after Shenhui's death. Its core may have originated within the so-called Oxhead school. The text was subsequently edited and enlarged, and reflects various Chán teachings. It de-emphasizes the difference between the Northern and the Southern School.\n\nThe first chapter of the Platform Sutra relates the story of Huineng and his inheritance of the East Mountain Teachings.\n\nThe tradition of a list of patriarchs, which granted credibility to the developing tradition, developed early in the Chán tradition:\nFaru (法如, 638-689) was \"the first pioneer\" and \"actual founder\" of the Northern School. His principal teachers were Hui-ming and Daman Hongren (Hung-jen). He was sent to Hongren by Hui-ming, and attained awakening when studying with Hung-jen\n\nOriginally Faru too was credited to be the successor of Hongren. But Faru did not have a good publicist, and he was not included within the list of Chan Patriarchs.\nBecause of Faru, the 'Shaolin Monastery', constructed in 496CE, yet again became prominent. [Faru] had only a brief stay at Shaolin Temple, but during his stay the cloister became the epicentre of the flourishing Chan movement. An epitaph commemorating the success of Faru's pioneering endeavors is located on Mount Sung.\n\nBaotang Wuzhu (, 714-774), founder and abbot of Baotang Monastery () in Chengdu in Southwest China was a member of the East Mountain Teachings.\n\nMoheyan (late eighth century CE) was a proponent of the Northern School. Moheyan traveled to Dunhuang, which at the time belonged to the Ancient Tibetan Empire, in 781 or 787 CE.\n\nMoheyan participated in a prolonged debate with Kamalashila at Samye in Tibet over sudden versus gradual teachings, which was decisive for the course the Tibetan Buddhist tradition took:\nBroughton identifies the Chinese and Tibetan nomenclature of Mohoyen's teachings and identifies them principally with the East Mountain Teachings:\nThe teachings of Moheyan and other Chan masters were unified with the Kham Dzogchen lineages {this may or may not be congruent with the Kahma (Tibetan: \"bka' ma\") lineages} through the \"Kunkhyen\" (Tibetan for \"omniscient\"), Rongzom Chokyi Zangpo.\n\nThe Dzogchen (\"Great Perfection\") School of the Nyingmapa was often identified with the 'sudden enlightenment' (Tibetan: \"cig car gyi ‘jug pa\") of Moheyan and was called to defend itself against this charge by avowed members of the Sarma lineages that held to the staunch view of 'gradual enlightenmnent' (Tibetan: \"rim gyis ‘jug pa\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "418101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418101", "title": "Evolutionary biology", "text": "Evolutionary biology\n\nEvolutionary biology is the subfield of biology that studies the evolutionary processes that produced the diversity of life on Earth, starting from a single common ancestor. These processes include natural selection, common descent, and speciation.\n\nThe discipline emerged through what Julian Huxley called the modern synthesis (of the 1930s) of understanding from several previously unrelated fields of biological research, including genetics, ecology, systematics, and paleontology.\n\nCurrent research has widened to cover the genetic architecture of adaptation, molecular evolution, and the different forces that contribute to evolution including sexual selection, genetic drift and biogeography. The newer field of evolutionary developmental biology (\"evo-devo\") investigates how embryonic development is controlled, thus creating a wider synthesis that integrates developmental biology with the fields covered by the earlier evolutionary synthesis.\n\nEvolution is the central unifying concept in biology. Biology can be divided in various ways. One way is by the level of biological organisation, from molecular to cell, organism to population. An earlier way is by perceived taxonomic group, with fields such as zoology, botany, and microbiology, reflecting what were once seen as the major divisions of life.\nA third way is by approach, such as field biology, theoretical biology, experimental evolution, and paleontology. These alternative ways of dividing up the subject can be combined with evolutionary biology to create subfields like evolutionary ecology and evolutionary developmental biology.\n\nMore recently, the merge between the biological science and applied sciences gave birth to new fields that are extensions of evolutionary biology, such as evolutionary robotics, engineering, algorithms, economics, and architecture. The basic mechanisms of evolution are applied directly or indirectly to come up with novel designs or solve problems that are difficult to solve otherwise. The research generated in these applied fields in turn contribute to progress, especially thanks to work on evolution in computer science and engineering fields such as mechanical engineering.\n\nThe idea of evolution by natural selection was proposed by Charles Darwin in 1859, but evolutionary biology, as an academic discipline in its own right, emerged during the period of the modern synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s. It was not until the 1980s that many universities had departments of evolutionary biology. In the United States, many universities have created departments of \"molecular and cell biology\" or \"ecology and evolutionary biology\", in place of the older departments of botany and zoology. Palaeontology is often grouped with earth science.\n\nMicrobiology too is becoming an evolutionary discipline, now that microbial physiology and genomics are better understood. The quick generation time of bacteria and viruses such as bacteriophages makes it possible to explore evolutionary questions.\n\nMany biologists have contributed to shaping the modern discipline of evolutionary biology. Theodosius Dobzhansky and E. B. Ford established an empirical research programme. Ronald Fisher, Sewall Wright and J. S. Haldane created a sound theoretical framework. Ernst Mayr in systematics, George Gaylord Simpson in paleontology and G. Ledyard Stebbins in botany helped to form the modern synthesis.\nJames Crow, Richard Lewontin, Dan Hartl, Marcus Feldman, and Brian Charlesworth trained a generation of evolutionary biologists.\n\nCurrent research in evolutionary biology covers diverse topics and incorporates ideas from diverse areas, such as molecular genetics and computer science.\n\nFirst, some fields of evolutionary research try to explain phenomena that were poorly accounted for in the modern evolutionary synthesis. These include speciation, the evolution of sexual reproduction, the evolution of cooperation, the evolution of ageing, and evolvability.\n\nSecond, biologists ask the most straightforward evolutionary question: \"what happened and when?\". This includes fields such as paleobiology, as well as systematics and phylogenetics.\n\nThird, the modern evolutionary synthesis was devised at a time when nobody understood the molecular basis of genes. Today, evolutionary biologists try to determine the genetic architecture of interesting evolutionary phenomena such as adaptation and speciation. They seek answers to questions such as how many genes are involved, how large are the effects of each gene, how interdependent are the effects of different genes, what do the genes do, and what changes happen to them (e.g., point mutations vs. gene duplication or even genome duplication). They try to reconcile the high heritability seen in twin studies with the difficulty in finding which genes are responsible for this heritability using genome-wide association studies.\n\nOne challenge in studying genetic architecture is that the classical population genetics that catalysed the modern evolutionary synthesis must be updated to take into account modern molecular knowledge. This requires a great deal of mathematical development to relate DNA sequence data to evolutionary theory as part of a theory of molecular evolution. For example, biologists try to infer which genes have been under strong selection by detecting selective sweeps.\n\nFourth, the modern evolutionary synthesis involved agreement about which forces contribute to evolution, but not about their relative importance. Current research seeks to determine this. Evolutionary forces include natural selection, sexual selection, genetic drift, genetic draft, developmental constraints, mutation bias and biogeography.\n\nAn evolutionary approach is key to much current research in organismal biology and ecology, such as in life history theory. Annotation of genes and their function relies heavily on comparative approaches. The field of evolutionary developmental biology (\"evo-devo\") investigates how developmental processes work, and compares them in different organisms to determine how they evolved.\n\nSome scientific journals specialise exclusively in evolutionary biology as a whole, including the journals \"Evolution\", \"Journal of Evolutionary Biology\", and \"BMC Evolutionary Biology\". Some journals cover sub-specialties within evolutionary biology, such as the journals \"Systematic Biology\", \"Molecular Biology and Evolution\" and its sister journal \"Genome Biology and Evolution\", and \"Cladistics.\n\nOther journals combine aspects of evolutionary biology with other related fields. For example, \"Molecular Ecology\", \"Proceedings of the Royal Society of London Series B\", \"The American Naturalist\" and \"Theoretical Population Biology\" have overlap with ecology and other aspects of organismal biology. Overlap with ecology is also prominent in the review journals \"Trends in Ecology and Evolution\" and \"Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, and Systematics\". The journals \"Genetics\" and \"PLoS Genetics\" overlap with molecular genetics questions that are not obviously evolutionary in nature.\n"}
{"id": "1795879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1795879", "title": "F. C. S. Schiller", "text": "F. C. S. Schiller\n\nFerdinand Canning Scott Schiller (16 August 1864 – 6 August 1937), usually cited as F. C. S. Schiller, was a German-British philosopher. Born in Altona, Holstein (at that time member of the German Confederation, but under Danish administration), Schiller studied at the University of Oxford, later was a professor there, after being invited back after a brief time at Cornell University. Later in his life he taught at the University of Southern California. In his lifetime he was well known as a philosopher; after his death his work was largely forgotten.\n\nSchiller's philosophy was very similar to and often aligned with the pragmatism of William James, although Schiller referred to it as \"humanism\". He argued vigorously against both logical positivism and associated philosophers (for example, Bertrand Russell) as well as absolute idealism (such as F. H. Bradley).\n\nSchiller was an early supporter of evolution and a founding member of the English Eugenics Society.\n\nBorn in 1864, one of three brothers and the son of Ferdinand Schiller (a Calcutta merchant), Schiller's family home was in Switzerland. Schiller grew up in Rugby. He was educated at Rugby School and Balliol College, and graduated in the first class of \"Literae Humaniores\", winning later the Taylorian scholarship for German in 1887. Schiller's first book, \"Riddles of the Sphinx\" (1891), was an immediate success despite his use of a pseudonym because of his fears concerning how the book would be received. Between the years 1893 and 1897 he was an instructor in philosophy at Cornell University. In 1897 he returned to Oxford and became fellow and tutor of Corpus Christi for more than thirty years. Schiller was president of the Aristotelian Society in 1921, and was for many years treasurer of the Mind Association. In 1926 he was elected a fellow of the British Academy. In 1929 he was appointed visiting professor in the University of Southern California, and spent half of each year in the United States and half in England. Schiller died in Los Angeles either 6, 7 or 9 August 1937 after a long and lingering illness.\n\nSchiller was a founding member of the English Eugenics Society and published three books on the subject; \"Tantalus or the Future of Man\" (1924), \"Eugenics and Politics\" (1926), and \"Social Decay and Eugenic Reform\" (1932).\n\nIn 1891, F.C.S. Schiller made his first contribution to philosophy anonymously. Schiller feared that in his time of high naturalism, the metaphysical speculations of his \"Riddles of the Sphinx\" were likely to hurt his professional prospects (p. xi, \"Riddles\"). However, Schiller's fear of reprisal from his anti-metaphysical colleagues should not suggest that Schiller was a friend of metaphysics. Like his fellow pragmatists across the ocean, Schiller was attempting to stake out an intermediate position between both the spartan landscape of naturalism and the speculative excesses of the metaphysics of his time. In \"Riddles\" Schiller both, \nThe result, Schiller contends, is that naturalism cannot make sense of the \"higher\" aspects of our world (freewill, consciousness, God, purpose, universals), while abstract metaphysics cannot make sense of the \"lower\" aspects of our world (the imperfect, change, physicality). In each case we are unable to guide our moral and epistemological \"lower\" lives to the achievement of life's \"higher\" ends, ultimately leading to scepticism on both fronts. For knowledge and morality to be possible, both the world's lower and higher elements must be real; e.g. we need universals (a higher) to make knowledge of particulars (a lower) possible. This would lead Schiller to argue for what he at the time called a \"concrete metaphysics\", but would later call \"humanism\".\n\nShortly after publishing \"Riddles of the Sphinx\", Schiller became acquainted with the work of pragmatist philosopher William James and this changed the course of his career. For a time, Schiller's work became focused on extending and developing James' pragmatism (under Schiller's preferred title, \"humanism\"). Schiller even revised his earlier work \"Riddles of the Sphinx\" to make the nascent pragmatism implicit in that work more explicit. In one of Schiller's most prominent works during this phase of his career, \"Axioms as Postulates\" (1903), Schiller extended James' will to believe doctrine to show how it could be used to justify not only an acceptance of God, but also our acceptance of causality, of the uniformity of nature, of our concept of identity, of contradiction, of the law of excluded middle, of space and time, of the goodness of God, and more.\n\nTowards the end of his career, Schiller's pragmatism began to take on a character more distinct from the pragmatism of William James. Schiller's focus became his opposition to formal logic. To understand Schiller's opposition to formal logic, consider the following inference: \nFrom the formal characteristics of this inference alone (All As are Bs; c is not a B; Therefore, c is not an A), formal logic would judge this to be a valid inference. Schiller, however, refused to evaluate the validity of this inference merely on its formal characteristics. Schiller argued that unless we look to the contextual fact regarding what specific problem first prompted this inference to actually occur, we can not determine whether the inference was successful (i.e. pragmatically successful). In the case of this inference, since \"Cerebos is 'salt' for culinary, but not for chemical purposes\", without knowing whether the purpose for this piece of reasoning was culinary or chemical we cannot determine whether this is valid or not. In another example, Schiller discusses the truth of formal mathematics \"1+1=2\" and points out that this equation does not hold if one is discussing drops of water. Schiller's attack on formal logic and formal mathematics never gained much attention from philosophers, however it does share some weak similarities to the contextualist view in contemporary epistemology as well as the views of ordinary language philosophers. (The \"All salt is soluble in water,\" argument is valid according to both Aristotelian and Boolean forms of logic as Mood A-O-O, figure 2. The issue regarding testing for validity and/or soundness is whether or not Cerebos is water-soluble, alone, no matter the use of the salt. One would not want to use insoluble salt in cooking, but such an issue does not effect whether or not such salt is water-soluble).\n\nIn \"Riddles\", Schiller gives historical examples of the dangers of abstract metaphysics in the philosophies of Plato, Zeno, and Hegel, portraying Hegel as the worst offender: \"Hegelianism never anywhere gets within sight of a fact, or within touch of reality. And the reason is simple: you cannot, without paying the penalty, substitute abstractions for realities; the thought-symbol cannot do duty for the thing symbolized\".\n\nSchiller argued that the flaw in Hegel's system, as with all systems of abstract metaphysics, is that the world it constructs always proves to be unhelpful in guiding our imperfect, changing, particular, and physical lives to the achievement of the \"higher\" universal Ideals and Ends. For example, Schiller argues that the reality of time and change is intrinsically opposed to the very modus operandi of all systems of abstract metaphysics. He says that the possibility to change is a precondition of any moral action (or action generally), and so any system of abstract metaphysics is bound to lead us into a moral scepticism. \nThe problem lies in the aim of abstract metaphysics for \"interpreting the world in terms of conceptions, which should be true not here and now, but \"eternally\" and independently of Time and Change.\" The result is that metaphysics must use conceptions that have the \"time-aspect of Reality\" abstracted away. Of course, \"[o]nce abstracted from,\"\n\nWhile abstract metaphysics provides us with a world of beauty and purpose and various other \"highers\", it condemns other key aspects of the world we live in as imaginary. The world of abstract metaphysics has no place for imperfect moral agents who (1) strive to learn about the world and then (2) act upon the world to change it for the better. Consequently, abstract metaphysics condemns us as illusionary, and declares our place in the world as unimportant and purposeless. Where abstractions take priority, our concrete lives collapse into scepticism and pessimism.\n\nHe also makes a case against the alternative naturalist method, saying that this too results in an epistemological and moral scepticism. Schiller looks to show this method's inadequacy at moving from the cold, lifeless lower world of atoms to the higher world of ethics, meanings, and minds. As with abstract metaphysics, Schiller attacks naturalism on many fronts: (1) the naturalist method is unable to reduce universals to particulars, (2) the naturalist method is unable to reduce freewill to determinist movements, (3) the naturalist method is unable to reduce emergent properties like consciousness to brain activity, (4) the naturalist method is unable to reduce God into a pantheism, and so on. Just as the abstract method cannot find a place for the lower elements of our world inside the higher, the naturalist method cannot find a place for the higher elements of our world inside the lower. In a reversal of abstract metaphysics, naturalism denies the reality of the higher elements to save the lower. Schiller uses the term \"pseudo-metaphysical\" here instead of naturalism—as he sometimes does—because he is accusing these naturalist philosophers of trying to solve metaphysical problems while sticking to the non-metaphysical \"lower\" aspects of the world (i.e. without engaging in real metaphysics): \n\nTo show that the world's higher elements do not reduce to the lower is not yet to show that naturalism must condemn the world's higher elements as illusionary. A second component to Schiller's attack is showing that naturalism cannot escape its inability to reduce the higher to the lower by asserting that these higher elements evolve from the lower. However, Schiller does not see naturalism as any more capable of explaining the evolution of the higher from the lower than it is capable of reducing the higher to the lower. While evolution does begin with something lower that in turn evolves into something higher, the problem for naturalism is that whatever the starting point for evolution is, it must first be something with the potential to evolve into a higher. For example, the world cannot come into existence from nothing because the potential or \"germ\" of the world is not \"in\" nothing (nothing has no potential, it has nothing; after all, it is nothing). Likewise, biological evolution cannot begin from inanimate matter, because the potential for life is not \"in\" inanimate matter. The following passage shows Schiller applying the same sort of reasoning to the evolution of consciousness:\n\nTaken as the type of the pseudo-metaphysical method, which explains the higher by the lower ... it does not explain the genesis of consciousness out of unconscious matter, because we cannot, or do not, attribute potential consciousness to matter. ... the theory of Evolution derives the [end result] from its germ, i.e., from that which was, what it became, potentially.\n\nUnable to either reduce or explain the evolution of the higher elements of our world, naturalism is left to explain away the higher elements as mere illusions. In doing this, naturalism condemns us to a scepticism in the both epistemology and ethics. It is worth noting, that while Schiller's work has been largely neglected since his death, Schiller's arguments against a naturalistic account of evolution have been recently cited by advocates of intelligent design to establish the existence of a longer history for the view due to legal concerns in the United States (See: Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District).\n\nSchiller argued that both abstract metaphysics and naturalism portray man as holding an intolerable position in the world. He proposed a method that not only recognises the lower world we interact with, but takes into account the higher world of purposes, ideals and abstractions. Schiller: \n\nWe require, then, a method which combines the excellencies of both the pseudo-metaphysical and the abstract metaphysical, if philosophy is to be possible at all.\n\nSchiller was demanding a course correction in field of metaphysics, putting it at the service of science. For example, to explain the creation of the world out of nothing, or to explain the emergence or evolution of the \"higher\" parts of the world, Schiller introduces a divine being who might generate the end (i.e. Final Cause) which gives nothingness, lifelessness, and unconscious matter the purpose (and thus potential) of evolving into higher forms: \n\nAnd thus, so far from dispensing with the need for a Divine First Cause, the theory of evolution, if only we have the faith in science to carry it to its conclusion, and the courage to interpret it, proves irrefragably that no evolution was possible without a pre-existent Deity, and a Deity, moreover, transcendent, non-material and non-phenomenal. ... [T]he world process is the working out of an anterior purpose or idea in the divine consciousness.\n\nThis re-introduction of teleology (which Schiller sometimes calls a re-anthropomorphizing of the world) is what Schiller says the naturalist has become afraid to do. Schiller's method of concrete metaphysics (i.e. his humanism) allows for an appeal to metaphysics when science demands it. However: \n\nSchiller finally reveals what this \"End\" is which \"all things tend\": \n\nIf our speculations have not entirely missed their mark, the world-process will come to an end when all the spirits whom it is designed to harmonise [by its Divine Creator] have been united in a perfect society.\n\nNow, while by today's philosophic standards Schiller's speculations would be considered wildly metaphysical and disconnected from the sciences, compared with the metaphysicians of his day (Hegel, McTaggart, etc.), Schiller saw himself as radically scientific. Schiller gave his philosophy a number of labels during his career. Early on he used the names \"Concrete Metaphysics\" and \"Anthropomorphism\", while later in life tending towards \"Pragmatism\" and particularly \"Humanism\".\n\nSchiller also developed a method of philosophy intended to mix elements of both naturalism and abstract metaphysics in a way that allows us to avoid the twin scepticisms each method collapses into when followed on its own. However, Schiller does not assume that this is enough to justify his humanism over the other two methods. He accepts the possibility that both scepticism and pessimism are true.\n\nTo justify his attempt to occupy the middle ground between naturalism and abstract metaphysics, Schiller makes a move that anticipates James' The Will to Believe: \n\nAnd in action especially we are often forced to act upon slight possibilities. Hence, if it can be shown that our solution is a possible answer, and the only possible alternative to pessimism, to a complete despair of life, it would deserve acceptance, even though it were but a bare possibility.\n\nSchiller contends that in light of the other methods' failure to provide humans with a role and place in the universe, we ought avoid the adoption of these methods. By the end of \"Riddles\", Schiller offers his method of humanism as the only possible method that results in a world where we can navigate our lower existence to the achievement of our higher purpose. He asserts that it is the method we ought to adopt regardless of the evidence against it (\"even though it were but a bare possibility\").\n\nWhile Schiller's will to believe is a central theme of \"Riddle of the Sphinx\" (appearing mainly in the introduction and conclusion of his text), in 1891 the doctrine held a limited role in Schiller's philosophy. In \"Riddles\", Schiller only employs his version of the will to believe doctrine when he is faced with overcoming sceptic and pessimistic methods of philosophy. In 1897, William James published his essay \"The Will to Believe\" and this influenced Schiller to drastically expanded his application of the doctrine. For a 1903 volume titled \"Personal Idealism\", Schiller contributed a widely read essay titled \"Axioms as Postulates\" in which he sets out to justify the \"axioms of logic\" as postulates adopted on the basis of the will to believe doctrine. In this essay Schiller extends the will to believe doctrine to be the basis of our acceptance of causality, of the uniformity of nature, of our concept of identity, of contradiction, of the law of excluded middle, of space and time, of the goodness of God, and more. He notes that we postulate that nature is uniform because we \"need\" nature to be uniform: \n\n[O]ut of the hurly-burly of events in time and space [we] extract[ ] changeless formulas whose chaste abstraction soars above all reference to any 'where' or 'when,' and thereby renders them blank cheques to be filled up at our pleasure with any figures of the sort. The only question is—Will Nature honour the cheque? Audentes Natura juvat—let us take our life in our hands and try! If we fail, our blood will be on our own hands (or, more probably, in some one else's stomach), but though we fail, we are in no worse case than those who dared not postulate ... Our assumption, therefore, is at least a methodological necessity; it may turn out to be (or be near) a fundamental fact in nature [an axiom].\nSchiller stresses that doctrines like the uniformity of nature must first be postulated on the basis of need (not evidence) and only then \"justified by the evidence of their practical working.\" He attacks both empiricists like John Stuart Mill, who try to conclude that nature is uniform from previous experience, as well as Kantians who conclude that nature is uniform from the preconditions on our understanding. Schiller argues that preconditions are not conclusions, but demands made on our experience that may or may not work. On this success hinges our continued acceptance of the postulate and its eventual promotion to axiom status.\n\nIn \"Axioms and Postulates\" Schiller vindicates the postulation by its success in practice, marking an important shift from \"Riddles of a Sphinx\". In \"Riddles\", Schiller is concerned with the vague aim of connecting the \"higher\" to the \"lower\" so he can avoid scepticism, but by 1903 he has clarified the connection he sees between these two elements. The \"higher\" abstract elements are connected to the lower because they are our inventions for dealing with the lower; their truth depends on their success as tools. Schiller dates the entry of this element into his thinking in his 1892 essay \"Reality and 'Idealism'\" (a mere year after his 1891 \"Riddles\").\n\nThe shift in Schiller's thinking continues in his next published work, \"The Metaphysics of the Time-Process\" (1895): \nThe abstractions of metaphysics, then, exist as explanations of the concrete facts of life, and not the latter as illustrations of the former ... Science [along with humanism] does not refuse to interpret the symbols with which it operates; on the contrary, it is only their applicability to the concrete facts originally abstracted from that is held to justify their use and to establish their 'truth.'\n\nSchiller's accusations against the metaphysician in \"Riddles\" now appear in a more pragmatic light. His objection is similar to one we might make against a worker who constructs a flat-head screwdriver to help him build a home, and who then accuses a screw of unreality when he comes upon a Phillips-screw that his flat-head screwdriver won't fit. In his works after \"Riddles\", Schiller's attack takes the form of reminding the abstract metaphysician that abstractions are meant as tools for dealing with the \"lower\" world of particulars and physicality, and that after constructing abstractions we cannot simply drop the un-abstracted world out of our account. The un-abstracted world is the entire reason for making abstractions in the first place. We did not abstract to reach the unchanging and eternal truths; we abstract to construct an imperfect and rough tool for dealing with life in our particular and concrete world. It is the working of the higher in \"making predictions about the future behavior of things for the purpose of shaping the future behavior of things for the purpose of shaping our own conduct accordingly\" that justifies the higher. \n\nTo assert this methodological character of eternal truths is not, of course, to deny their validity ... To say that we assume the truth of abstraction because we wish to attain certain ends, is to subordinate theoretic 'truth' to a teleological implication; to say that, the assumption once made, its truth is 'proved' by its practical working ... For the question of the 'practical' working of a truth will always ultimately be found to resolve itself into the question whether we can live by it.\n\nA few lines down from this passage Schiller adds the following footnote in a 1903 reprint of the essay: \"All this seems a very fairly definite anticipation of modern pragmatism.\" Indeed, it resembles the pragmatist theory of truth. However, Schiller's pragmatism was still very different from both that of William James and that of Charles Sanders Peirce.\n\nAs early as 1891 Schiller had independently reached a doctrine very similar to William James' Will to Believe. As early as 1892 Schiller had independently developed his own pragmatist theory of truth. However, Schiller's concern with meaning was one he entirely imports from the pragmatisms of James and Peirce. Later in life Schiller musters all of these elements of his pragmatism to make a concerted attack on formal logic. Concerned with bringing down the timeless, perfect worlds of abstract metaphysics early in life, the central target of Schiller's developed pragmatism is the abstract rules of formal logic. Statements, Schiller contends, cannot possess meaning or truth abstracted away from their actual use. Therefore, examining their formal features instead of their function in an actual situation is to make the same mistake the abstract metaphysician makes. Symbols are meaningless scratches on paper unless they are given a life in a situation, and meant by someone to accomplish some task. They are tools for dealing with concrete situations, and not the proper subjects of study themselves.\n\nBoth Schiller's theory of truth and meaning (i.e. Schiller's pragmatism) derive their justification from an examination of thought from what he calls his humanist viewpoint (his new name for concrete metaphysics). He informs us that to answer \"what precisely is meant by having a meaning\" will require us to \"raise the prior question of why we think at all.\". A question Schiller of course looks to evolution to provide.\n\nSchiller provides a detailed defence of his pragmatist theories of truth and meaning in a chapter titled \"The Biologic of Judgment\" in \"Logic for Use\" (1929). The account Schiller lays out in many ways resembles some of what Peirce asserts in his \"\" (1877) essay:\n\nThis passage of Schiller was worth quoting at length because of the insight this chapter offers into Schiller's philosophy. In the passage, Schiller makes the claim that thought only occurs when our unthinking habits prove themselves inadequate for handling a particular situation. Schiller's stressing of the genesis of limited occurrences of thought sets Schiller up for his account of meaning and truth.\n\nSchiller asserts that when a person utters a statement in a situation they are doing so for a specific purpose: to solve the problem that habit could not handle alone. The meaning of such a statement is whatever contribution it makes to accomplishing the purpose of this particular occurrence of thought. The truth of the statement will be if it helps accomplishes that purpose. No utterance or thought can be given a meaning or a truth valuation outside the context of one of these particular occurrences of thought. This account of Schiller's is a much more extreme view than even James took.\n\nAt first glance, Schiller appears very similar to James. However, Schiller's more stringent requirement that meaningful statements have consequences \"to some one for some purpose\" makes Schiller's position more extreme than James'. For Schiller, it is not a sufficient condition for meaningfulness that a statement entail experiential consequences (as it is for both Peirce and James). Schiller requires that the consequences of a statement make the statement relevant to some particular person's goals at a specific moment in time if it is to be meaningful. Therefore, it is not simply enough that the statement \"diamonds are hard\" and the statement \"diamonds are soft\" entail different experiential consequences, it is also required that the experiential difference makes a difference to someone's purposes. Only then, and only to that person, do the two statements state something different. If the experiential difference between hard and soft diamonds did not connect up with my purpose for entering into thought, the two statements would possess the same meaning. For example, if I were to randomly blurt out \"diamonds are hard\" and then \"diamonds are soft\" to everyone in a coffee shop one day, my words would mean nothing. Words can only mean something if they are stated with a specific purpose.\n\nConsequently, Schiller rejects the idea that statements can have meaning or truth when they are looked upon in the abstract, away from a particular context. \"Diamonds are hard\" only possesses meaning when stated (or believed) at some specific situation, by some specific person, uttered (or believed) for some specific aim. It is the consequences the statement holds for that person's purposes which constitute its meaning, and its usefulness in accomplishing that person's purposes that constitutes the statement's truth or falsity. After all, when we look at the sentence \"diamonds are hard\" in a particular situation we may find it actually has nothing to say about diamonds. A speaker may very well be using the sentence as a joke, as a codephrase, or even simply as an example of a sentence with 15 letters. Which the sentence really means cannot be determined without the specific purpose a person might be using the statement for in a specific context.\n\nIn an article titled \"Pragmatism and Pseudo-pragmatism\" Schiller defends his pragmatism against a particular counterexample in a way that sheds considerable light on his pragmatism: \n\nThe impossibility of answering truly the question whether the 100th (or 10,000th) decimal in the evaluation of Pi is or is not a 9, splendidly illustrates how impossible it is to predicate truth in abstraction from actual knowing and actual purpose. For the question cannot be answered until the decimal is calculated. Until then no one knows what it is, or rather will turn out to be. And no one will calculate it, until it serves some purpose to do so, and some one therefore interests himself in the calculation. And so until then the truth remains uncertain: there is no 'true' answer, because there is no actual context in which the question has really been raised. We have merely a number of conflicting possibilities, not even claims to truth, and there is no decision. Yet a decision is possible if an experiment is performed. But his experiment presupposes a desire to know. It will only be made if the point becomes one which it is practically important to decide. Normally no doubt it does not become such, because for the actual purposes of the sciences it makes no difference whether we suppose the figure to be 9 or something else. I.e. the truth to, say, the 99th decimal, is ' true enough ' for our purposes, and the 100th is a matter of indifference. But let that indifference cease, and the question become important, and the ' truth ' will at once become ' useful '. Prof. Taylor's illustration therefore conclusively proves that in an actual context and as an actual question there is no true answer to be got until the truth has become useful. This point is illustrated also by the context Prof. Taylor has himself suggested. For he has made the question about the 100th decimal important by making the refutation of the whole pragmatist theory of knowledge depend on it. And what nobler use could the 100th decimal have in his eyes? If in consequence of this interest he will set himself to work it out, he will discover this once useless, but now most useful, truth, and—triumphantly refute his own contention!\n\nWe might recognise this claim as the sort of absurdity many philosophers try to read into the pragmatism of William James. James, however, would not agree that the meaning of \"the 100th decimal of Pi is 9\" and \"the 100th decimal of Pi is 6\" mean the same thing until someone has a reason to care about any possible difference. Schiller, in constast, does mean to say this. \nJames and Schiller both treat truth as something that happens to a statement, and so James would agree that it only becomes true that the 100th decimal of Pi is 9 when someone in fact believes that statement and it leads them to their goals, but nowhere does James imply that meaning is something that happens to a statement. That is a unique element of Schiller's pragmatism.\n\nWhile Schiller felt greatly indebted to the pragmatism of William James, Schiller was outright hostile to the pragmatism of C.S. Peirce. Both Schiller and James struggled with what Peirce intended with his pragmatism, and both were often baffled by Peirce's insistent rebuffing of what they both saw as the natural elaboration of the pragmatist cornerstone he himself first laid down. On the basis of his misunderstandings, Schiller complains that for Peirce to merely say \"'truths should have practical consequences'\" is to be \"very vague, and hints at no reason for the curious connexion it asserts.\" Schiller goes on to denigrate Peirce's principle as nothing more than a simple truism \"which hardly deserves a permanent place and name in philosophic usage\". After all, Schiller points out, \"[i]t is hard ... to see why even the extremest intellectualism should deny that the difference between the truth and the falsehood of an assertion must show itself in some visible way.\"\n\nWith Peirce's attempts to restrict the use of pragmatism set aside, Schiller unpacks the term \"consequences\" to provide what he considers as a more substantial restatement of Peirce's pragmatism: \n\nFor to say that a [statement] has consequences and that what has none is meaningless, must surely mean that it has a bearing upon some human interest; they must be consequences to some one for some purpose.\n\nSchiller believes his pragmatism to be more developed because of its attention to the fact that the \"consequences\" which make up the meaning and truth of a statement, must always be consequences for someone's particular purposes at some particular time. Continuing his condemnation of the abstract, Schiller contends that the meaning of a concept is not the consequences of some abstract proposition, but what consequences an actual thinker hopes its use will bring about in an actual situation. The meaning of a thought is what consequences one means to bring about when they employ the thought. To Schiller, this is what a more sophisticated pragmatist understands by the term meaning.\n\nIf we are to understand the pragmatic theory of meaning in Schiller's way, he is right to claim that James' theory of truth is a mere corollary of the pragmatist theory of meaning: \n\nBut now, we may ask, how are these 'consequences' to test the 'truth' claimed by the assertion? Only by satisfying or thwarting that purpose, by forwarding or baffling that interest. If they do the one, the assertion is 'good' and pro tanto 'true' ; if they do the other, 'bad' and 'false'. Its 'consequences,' therefore, when investigated, always turn out to involve the 'practical' predicates 'good ' or 'bad,' and to contain a reference to ' practice' in the sense in which we have used that term. So soon as therefore we go beyond an abstract statement of the narrower pragmatism, and ask what in the concrete, and in actual knowing, 'having consequences ' may mean, we develop inevitably the fullblown pragmatism in the wider sense.\n\nGiven Schiller's view that the meaning of a thought amounts to the consequences one means to bring about by the thought, Schiller further concluded that the truth of a thought depends on whether it actually brings about the consequences one intended. For example, if while following a cooking recipe that called for salt I were to think to myself, \"Cerebos is salt\", my thought will be true if it consequently leads me to add Cerebos and produce a dish with the intended taste. However, if while working in a chemistry lab to produce a certain mixture I were to think to myself, \"Cerebos is salt\", my thought would both have a different meaning than before (since my intent now differs) and be false (since Cerebos is only equivalent to salt for culinary purposes). According to Schiller, the question of what a thought like \"Cerebos is salt\" means or whether it is true can only be answered if the specific circumstances with which the thought arose are taken into consideration. While there is some similarity here between Schiller's view of meaning and the later ordinary language philosophers, Schiller's account ties meaning and truth more closely to individuals and their intent with a specific use rather than whole linguistic communities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26186757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26186757", "title": "Fred Miller (philosopher)", "text": "Fred Miller (philosopher)\n\nFred D. Miller, Jr. is an emeritus professor of philosophy at Bowling Green State University, and serves as Executive Director of the University's Social Philosophy and Policy Center. An Objectivist philosopher, he is a member of the Ayn Rand Society, affiliated with the American Philosophical Association, Eastern Division. He specializes in Aristotelian philosophy, with additional interests in political philosophy, business ethics, metaphysics, and philosophy in science fiction. He has written articles in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy on Aristotle's Political Theory, and his Political Naturalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "7259929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7259929", "title": "Georg Friedrich Daumer", "text": "Georg Friedrich Daumer\n\nGeorg Friedrich Daumer (Nuremberg, 5 March 1800 - Würzburg, 14 December 1875) was a German poet and philosopher. He was educated at the gymnasium of his native city, at that time directed by the famous philosopher Hegel. In 1817 he entered the University of Erlangen as a student of theology, but abandoned that study for philosophy. For a number of years Daumer was professor at the gymnasium of Nuremberg; owing to ill-health he was pensioned in 1832 and henceforth devoted himself entirely to literary work. While at Erlangen he came strongly under the influence of Pietism. Soon, however, he became sceptical and exhibited decided leanings towards pantheism. From an orthodox Protestant he gradually became a bitter enemy of Christianity, which he attacked in a number of writings and for which he strove to substitute a new religion \"of love and peace\", formulated in his work \"Religion des neuen Weltalters\" (Hamburg, 1850). Karl Marx and Frederick Engels joined in writing a critical review of Daumer's \"Die Religion des Neuen Weltalters\" in January through February 1850 which was published in the \"Neue Rheinische Zeitung: Politisch-Ökonomische Revue\". Marx and Engels criticized Daumer's theory of history from class point of view. Instead of a struggle between economic classes in society, Daumer saw only a struggle between \"coarseness\" and \"culture.\"\n\nPrior to writing \"Die Religion des Neuen Welalters\", Daumer had published a number of works, all of a distinctly anti-theological tendency, of which the more important are: \"Philosophie, Religion, und Altertum\" (Nuremberg, 1833); \"Züge zu einer neuen Philosophie der Religion und Religionsgeschichte\" (Nuremberg, 1835); \"Der Feuer- und Molochdienst der Hebräer\" (Brunswick, 1842); \"Die Geheimnisse des christlichen Altertums\" (Hamburg, 1847). Shortly after 1850 Daumer left Nuremberg and settled at Frankfurt, where a great change soon came over him. In 1858 at Mainz he publicly embraced the Catholic faith and thenceforth became its zealous defender. Among the works written after his conversion are: \"Meine Konversion\" (Mainz, 1859); \"Aus der Mansarde\" (1860–62); \"Das Christentum und sein Urheber\" (Mainz, 1864); \"Das Wunder, seine Bedeutung, Wahrheit und Notwendigkeit\" (Ratisbon, 1874). The last mentioned work is directed expressly against the opinions of David Strauss.\n\nOne of the most important parts of Daumer's work is his poetry. His \"Hafis\" (Hamburg, 1846; a second collection, 1852) contain graceful but very free imitations of the songs of the famous Persian poet. Some of them have become widely known through the musical settings of Brahms, such as the \"Liebeslieder\" and \"Neue Liebeslieder\" Waltzes. This collection, as well as \"Mahomed und sein Werk\" (Hamburg, 1848), is distinctly directed against the hypocrisy and asceticism which at that time Daumer believed to be inseparable from orthodox Christianity. Among other poems may be mentioned: \"Glorie der heiligen Jungfrau Maria\" (Nuremberg, 1841); \"Frauenbilder und Huldigungen\" (Leipzig, 1853); \"Marianische Legenden und Gedichte\" (Munster, 1859) and \"Schöne Seelen\" (Mainz, 1862).\n\nDaumer was also known as host and teacher of the mysterious foundling Kaspar Hauser in 1828-30 and wrote several books about the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "40991146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40991146", "title": "Hans-Johann Glock", "text": "Hans-Johann Glock\n\nHans-Johann Glock (born February 12, 1960, Freudenstadt) is a German philosopher and professor of philosophy at the University of Zurich.\n\nGlock studied philosophy, German studies, and mathematics at Tübingen University, University of Oxford, and the Free University of Berlin, and in 1990 received his PhD at Oxford. After lectureships at Oxford and the University of Reading, he was appointed a position in 2006 at the University of Zurich, where he holds a chair in \"Theoretical Philosophy\". He is also Visiting Professor at the University of Reading.\n\nHis research is the fields of philosophy of language, philosophy of mind, and analytic philosophy more broadly. Glock has worked in particular with the topic of concepts and also on the question of animal cognition. Furthermore, Glock is considered to be an expert on the philosophy of Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11632490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11632490", "title": "Hatata", "text": "Hatata\n\nHatata (; Ge'ez: ሓተታ \"ḥatäta\" \"inquiry\") is a 1667 ethical philosophical treatise by the Abyssinian philosopher Zera Yacob, written at the request of his patron's son Walda Heywat. The philosophy is theistic in nature and came during a period when African philosophical literature was significantly oral in character. It has often been compared by scholars to Descartes' \"Discours de la methode\" (1637).\n\nYacob wrote \"Hatata\" as an investigation of the light of reason. Yacob is most noted for this philosophy surrounding the principle of harmony. He asserted that an action's morality is decided by whether it advances or degrades overall harmony in the world. While he did believe in a deity, whom he referred to as God, he rejected any set of religious beliefs. Rather than deriving beliefs from any organized religion, Yacob sought the truth in observing the natural world.\n\nIn \"Hatata\", in following in the footsteps of the Church fathers, Yacob applied the idea of the first cause to his proof for the existence of God. \"If I say that my father and my mother created me, then I must search for the creator of my parents and of the parents of my parents until they arrive at the first who were not created as we [are] but who came into this world in some other way without being generated.\"\n\nHowever, the knowability of God does not depend on human intellect, but \"Our soul has the power of having the concept of God and of seeing him mentally. God did not give this power purposelessly; as he gave the power, so did he give the reality.\"\n\nUpon Yacob's death in 1692 his pupil Walda Heywat updated the work to include his death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "772769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=772769", "title": "Henry James Sr.", "text": "Henry James Sr.\n\nHenry James Sr. (June 3, 1811 in Albany, New YorkDecember 18, 1882 in Boston, Massachusetts) was an American theologian and adherent of Swedenborgianism, also known for being the father of the philosopher William James, novelist Henry James, and diarist Alice James.\n\nJames was born on June 3, 1811 in Albany, New York. He was one of twelve children born to Catharine (née Barbara) James and William James (1771–1832), an emigrant from Bailieborough, County Cavan, Ireland to the United States around 1789, who amassed a fortune of about $1.2 million from business dealings in upstate New York State, primarily in Albany real estate, money lending, and his involvement with the building of the Erie Canal.\n\nAt the age of thirteen, he was severely burned trying to stamp out a fire in a barn, and lost a leg to amputation. The three years he was bedridden reinforced his studious disposition. He entered Union College in 1828 and graduated in 1830. His father, a stern Presbyterian, disapproved of his religious ideas, but when the patriarch's will was broken, he became an independently wealthy man. He studied at Princeton Theological Seminary from 1835 to 1837 to prepare for the ministry, but found himself disconcerted by \"enormous difficulties which inhered in its philosophy,\" and abandoned the idea of becoming a minister. After Princeton, James then went to England for about a year, and returned in 1838 to New York.\n\nUpon James' return to New York in 1838, he prepared an edition of Robert Sandeman's \"Letters on Theron and Aspasio\", which has been called the principal literary document of a Scottish sect that opposed the Presbyterian Church. In his preface to Sandeman's work, he called it \"a far more faithful exhibition of Gospel truth than any other work.\" What specifically interested James was its radically egalitarian message. Sandeman wrote: \"In fine, the whole New Testament speaks aloud, that as to the matter of acceptance with God, there is no difference betwixt one man and another; — no difference betwixt the best accomplished gentleman, and the most infamous scoundrel; — no difference betwixt the most virtuous lady and the vilest prostitute ...\"\n\nAround 1841, James began to be interested in Swedenborgianism when he read some articles in London's \"Monthly Magazine\" on the subject by J.J. Garth Wilkinson, who would become one of James's closest friends. In his quest, he met and befriended Ralph Waldo Emerson, but did not find much satisfaction in Emerson's thought. Emerson introduced James to Thomas Carlyle. But it was in the work of Emanuel Swedenborg (1688–1772), the Swedish scientist, religious visionary and teacher, that James found a spiritual home. In May 1844, while living in Windsor, in England, James was sitting alone one evening at the family dinner table after the meal, gazing at the fire, when he had the defining spiritual experience of his life, which he would come to interpret as a Swedenborgian \"vastation,\" a stage in the process of spiritual regeneration. This experience was an apprehension of, in his own words, \"a perfectly insane and abject terror, without ostensible cause, and only to be accounted for, to my perplexed imagination, by some damned shape squatting invisible to me within the precincts of the room, and raying out from his fetid personality influences fatal to life.\" \n\nJames's \"vastation\" initiated a spiritual crisis that lasted two years, and was finally resolved through the thorough exploration of the work of Swedenborg and Christian mystic. James became convinced that, as he put it, \"the curse of mankind, that which keeps our manhood so little and so depraved, is its sense of selfhood, and the absurd abominable opinionativeness it engenders.\" He remained attached to Swedenborg's thought for the rest of life, and never traveled without carrying Swedenborg's works with him.\n\nIn 1845, James again returned to the United States and began a lifetime of lecturing about his spiritual discoveries. He devoted his mornings to writing, and published a number of discursive volumes devoted to the exposition of his thought.\n\nIn the late 1840s, James became interested in the former members of Brook Farm, an experiment in communal living at West Roxbury, Massachusetts that lasted from 1841 to 1847, and in Fourierism, the school of utopian socialism that grew out of the thought of French social philosopher Charles Fourier (1772–1837) and which was a major influence in the last several years of Brook Farm. James was interested in utopianism as a stepping stone to the spiritual life. In his view, man is:\n\nunder a threefold subjection, first to nature, then to society, and finally to God. His appetites and his sensuous understanding relate him to society or his fellow man; and his ideas relate him to God. . . . He who obeys his appetites merely finds himself speedily betrayed by the inflexible laws of nature to disease and death. He who obeys his passions merely binds himself by the inflexible laws of society to shame and seclusion. But he who obeys his ideas, he who gives himself up to the guidance of infinite goodness, truth, and beauty, encounters no limitation at the hands either of nature or society, and, instead of disease and shame, plucks only the fruits of health and immortal honor.\n\nJames was a stern critic of the \"gross materiality\" of American society, and found in Fourier's thought a useful critique. He held most of the leading writers of his day in low regard, with the possible exception of Walt Whitman, though he met and cultivated many of them, including Emerson, Bronson Alcott, Henry David Thoreau, and William Makepeace Thackeray.\n\nJames was an advocate of many social reforms, including the abolition of slavery and the liberalization of divorce.\n\nTheologically, James was out of sympathy with the naturalism of much of the religious thought of the nineteenth century. He regarded creation itself as \"a purely spiritual process, falling wholly within the realm of affection and thought.\" The fundamental theological problem, in his view, is theodicy, or the problem of evil. His Swedenborgian solution to the problem of evil relied on breaking the bond between God and nature, or, put alternatively, between nature and reality. True reality (or God) is, in James's view, thoroughly spiritual, in a way that denizens of the natural world can scarcely comprehend. But through intuition of this true reality, James thought, liberation from the illusions of natural appearances—which include time, space, and selfhood—is possible. In such liberation lies salvation, in James's view, whereas evil—more specifically, \"spiritual\" evil, since James distinguishes this from \"physical\" and \"moral\" evil—arises from action based on the delusion of selfhood. In James's thought, \"the principle of hell is selfhood and the principle of heaven is brotherly love,\" as C. Hartley Grattan puts it in \"The Three James: A Family of Minds: Henry James Sr., William James, Henry James\" (N.Y. Univ. Press, 1962 [orig. ed. 1932], p. 75). But James was not a slavish follower of Swedenborg. Rather, it was in Swedenborg that he found the most fecund exploration of his central insight that the source of all evil was in attachment to the self.\n\nAlthough the ideas of James were received by his contemporaries with little enthusiasm, and although he was altogether out of sympathy with his age's enthusiasm for science, he never grew discouraged; in fact, some of the best expositions of his thought are to be found in the volumes of his later years. He participated actively in the lives of his children, whose education he had done so much to shape. His society was cultivated by many, who enjoyed his conversation—provided that they were strong enough to bear the sometimes devastating criticism he offered. He delighted in paradox and exaggeration and enjoyed flouting convention. But he shunned formal society, which he found uncongenial. He wrote: \"The bent of my nature is towards affection and thought rather than action. I love the fireside rather than the forum.\"\n\nThoreau's description of an encounter with James gives an idea of how his contemporaries saw and judged him:\n\nI met Henry James the other night at Emerson's, at an Alcottian conversation, at which, however, Alcott did not talk much, being disturbed by James's opposition. The latter is a hearty man enough, with whom you can differ very satisfactorily, both on account of his doctrines and his good temper. He utters \"quasi\"-philanthropic dogmas in a metaphysic dress; but they are, for all practical purposes, very crude. He charges society with all the crime committed, and praises the criminal for committing it. But I think that all the remedies he suggests out of his head—for he goes no farther, hearty as he is—would leave us about where we are now. For, of course, it is not by a gift of turkeys on Thanksgiving Day that he proposes to convert the criminal, but by a true sympathy with each one,—with him, among the rest, who lying tells the world from the gallows that he has never been treated kindly by a single mortal since he was born. But it is not so easy a thing to sympathize with another, though you may have the best disposition to do it. There is Dobson over the hill. Have not you and I and all the world been trying to sympathize with him since he was born (as doubtless he with us), and yet we have got no further than to send him to the House of Correction once at least; and he, on the other hand, has sent us to another place several times. This is the real state of things as I understand it, at least so far as James's remedies. We are now, alas! exercising what charity we actually have, and new laws would not give us any more. But perchance, we might make some improvements in the House of Correction. You and I are Dobson; what will James do for us?. \n\nOn July 28, 1840, James was married to Mary Robertson Walsh (1810–1882), the sister of a fellow Princeton seminarian, by the mayor of New York, in his bride's house on Washington Square. The couple lived in New York, and together had five children:\n\n\nJames's marriage was a happy one, and when Mary James died on January 29, 1882, his will to live seemed to die with her. His work on yet another volume flagged, and he fell into a state of indolence. He rallied briefly after visits from his sons, called to his side by his daughter, Alice. But he suffered a relapse after Henry Jr. and William left on excursions to Europe. His famous sons never saw him alive again. He died on December 18, 1882, at his residence on Vernon Street in Boston.\n\nOn the same day, his son Henry's boat docked in New York on his way back to see his father. William James, in London at the time, was kept from full knowledge of his father's decline in order not to interfere with a much needed vacation; when he learned that his father was on his deathbed, four days before his final demise, William James wrote a moving letter that his father never read. In it, the famous psychologist wrote: \"In that mysterious gulf of the past into which the present will soon fall and go back and back, yours is still for me the central figure. All my intellectual life I derive from you; and though we have often seemed at odds in the expression thereof I'm sure there's a harmony somewhere, & that our strivings will combine. What my debt to you is goes beyond all my power of estimating,—so early, so penetrating and so constant has been the influence. . . . Good night my sacred old Father. If I don't see you again—Farewell! a blessed farewell!\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5280356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5280356", "title": "Ibn Sab'in", "text": "Ibn Sab'in\n\nAbu Mohammed Abd el-Hakh Ibn Sab'in () was an Arab Sufi philosopher, the last philosopher of the Andalus in the west land of Islamic world. He was born in 1217 in Spain and lived in Ceuta. He was known for his replies to questions sent to him by Frederick II, ruler of Sicily. He died in 1271 in Mecca. He was also known for his knowledge of religions (Judaism, Christianity but even Hinduism and Zoroastrism) and the \"hidden sciences\".\n\nHis school is a combination of philosophical and Gnostic thoughts.\n\nHe was recognized by Michele Amari as the author, among others, of the responses to the famous \"Sicilian Questions\" of Frederick II of Hohenstaufen.\n"}
{"id": "1287236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1287236", "title": "Innatism", "text": "Innatism\n\nInnatism is a philosophical and epistemological doctrine that holds that the mind is born with ideas/knowledge, and that therefore the mind is not a \"blank slate\" at birth, as early empiricists such as John Locke claimed. It asserts that not all knowledge is gained from experience and the senses. Plato and Descartes are prominent philosophers in the development of innatism and the notion that the mind is already born with ideas, knowledge and beliefs. Both philosophers emphasize that experiences are the key to unlocking this knowledge but not the source of the knowledge itself. Essentially, no knowledge is derived exclusively from one's experiences as empiricists like John Locke suggested.\n\nIn general usage, the terms \"innatism\" and \"nativism\" are synonymous as they both refer to notions of preexisting ideas present in the mind. However, more correctly, innatism refers to the philosophy of Plato and Descartes, who assumed that a God or a similar being or process placed innate ideas and principles in the human mind.\n\nNativism represents an adaptation of this, grounded in the fields of genetics, cognitive psychology, and psycholinguistics. Nativists hold that innate beliefs are in some way genetically programmed to arise in our mind—that innate beliefs are the phenotypes of certain genotypes that all humans share in common.\n\nNativism is a modern view rooted in innatism. The advocates of nativism are mainly philosophers who also work in the field of cognitive psychology or psycholinguistics: most notably Noam Chomsky and Jerry Fodor (although the latter has adopted a more critical attitude towards nativism in his later writings). The nativist's general objection against empiricism is still the same as was raised by the rationalists; the human mind of a newborn child is not a tabula rasa, but equipped with an inborn structure.\n\nIn philosophy and psychology, an innate idea is a concept or item of knowledge which is said to be \"universal to all humanity\"—that is, something people are born with rather than something people have \"learned\" through experience.\n\nThe issue is controversial, and can be said to be an aspect of a long-running nature versus nurture debate, albeit one localized to the question of understanding human cognition.\n\nAlthough individual human beings obviously vary due to cultural, racial, linguistic and era-specific influences, innate ideas are said to belong to a more fundamental level of human cognition. For example, the philosopher René Descartes theorized that knowledge of God is innate in everybody as a product of the faculty of faith.\n\nOther philosophers, most notably the empiricists, were critical of the theory and denied the existence of any innate ideas, saying all human knowledge was founded on experience, rather than \"a priori\" reasoning.\n\nPhilosophically, the debate over innate ideas is central to the conflict between rationalist and empiricist epistemologies. While rationalists believe that certain ideas exist independently of experience, empiricism claims that all knowledge is derived from experience.\n\nImmanuel Kant was a German philosopher who is regarded as having ended the impasse in modern philosophy between rationalists and empiricists, and is widely held to have synthesized these two early modern traditions in his thought.\n\nPlato argues that if there are certain concepts that we know to be true but did not learn from experience then it must be because we have an innate knowledge of it and this knowledge must have been gained before birth. In Plato's \"Meno\", he recalls a situation in which Socrates, his mentor, questioned a slave boy about a geometry theorem. Though the slave boy had no previous experience with geometry, he was able to generate the right responses to the questions he was asked. Plato reasoned that this was possible as Socrates' questions sparked the innate knowledge of math the boy had had from birth.\n\nDescartes conveys the idea that innate knowledge or ideas is something inborn such as one would say, that a certain disease might be 'innate' to signify that a person might be at risk of contacting such a disease. He suggests that something that is 'innate' is effectively present from birth and while it may not reveal itself then, is more than likely to present itself later in life. Descartes comparison of innate knowledge to an innate disease, whose symptoms may only show up later in life, unless prohibited by a factor like age or puberty, suggests that if an event occurs prohibiting someone from exhibiting an innate behaviour or knowledge, it doesn’t mean the knowledge did not exist at all but rather it wasn’t expressed – they were not able to acquire that knowledge. In other words, innate beliefs, ideas and knowledge require experiences to be triggered or they may never be expressed. Experiences are not the source of knowledge as proposed by John Locke, but catalysts to the uncovering of knowledge.\n\nThe main antagonist to the concept of innate ideas is John Locke, a contemporary of Leibniz. Locke argued that the mind is in fact devoid of all knowledge or ideas at birth; it is a blank sheet or \"tabula rasa\". He argued that all our ideas are constructed in the mind via a process of constant composition and decomposition of the input that we receive through our senses.\n\nLocke, in \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", suggests that the concept of universal assent in fact proves nothing, except perhaps that everyone is in agreement; in short universal assent proves that there is universal assent and nothing else. Moreover, Locke goes on to suggest that in fact there \"is\" no universal assent. Even a phrase such as \"What is, is\" is not universally assented to; infants and severely handicapped adults do not generally acknowledge this truism. Locke also attacks the idea that an innate idea can be imprinted on the mind without the owner realizing it. For Locke, such reasoning would allow one to conclude the absurd: “all the Truths a Man ever comes to know, will, by this account, be, every one of them, innate.” To return to the musical analogy, we may not be able to recall the entire melody until we hear the first few notes, but we were aware of the fact that we knew the melody and that upon hearing the first few notes we would be able to recall the rest.\n\nLocke ends his attack upon innate ideas by suggesting that the mind is a \"tabula rasa\" or \"blank slate\", and that all ideas come from experience; all our knowledge is founded in sensory experience.\n\nEssentially, the same knowledge thought to be \"a priori\" by Leibniz is in fact, according to Locke, the result of empirical knowledge, which has a lost origin [been forgotten] in respect to the inquirer. However, the inquirer is not cognizant of this fact; thus, he experiences what he believes to be \"a priori\" knowledge.\n\n1) The theory of innate knowledge is excessive. Even innatists accept that most of our knowledge is learned through experience, but if that can be extended to account for all knowledge, we learn colour through seeing it, so therefore, there is no need for a theory about an innate understanding of colour.\n\n2) No ideas are universally held. Do we all possess the idea of God? Do we all believe in justice and beauty? Do we all understand the law of identity? If not, it may not be the case that we have acquired these ideas through impressions/experience/social interaction (this is the children's and idiot's criticism).\n\n3) Even if there are some universally agreed statements, it is just the ability of the human brain to organize learned ideas/words, that is, innate. An \"ability to organize\" is not the same as \"possessing propositional knowledge\" (e.g., a computer with no saved files has all the operations programmed in but has an empty memory).\n\nGottfried Wilhelm Leibniz suggested that we are born with certain innate ideas, the most identifiable of these being mathematical truisms. The idea that \"1 + 1 = 2\" is evident to us without the necessity for empirical evidence. Leibniz argues that empiricism can only show us that concepts are true in the present; the observation of one apple and then another in one instance, and in that instance only, leads to the conclusion that one and another equals two. However, the suggestion that one and another will always equal two require an innate idea, as that would be a suggestion of things unwitnessed.\n\nLeibniz called such concepts as mathematical truisms \"necessary truths\". Another example of such may be the phrase, \"what is, is\" or \"it is impossible for the same thing to be and not to be\". Leibniz argues that such truisms are universally assented to (acknowledged by all to be true); this being the case, it must be due to their status as innate ideas. Often there are ideas that are acknowledged as necessarily true but are not universally assented to. Leibniz would suggest that this is simply because the person in question has not become aware of the innate idea, not because they do not possess it. Leibniz argues that empirical evidence can serve to bring to the surface certain principles that are already innately embedded in our minds. This is similar to needing to hear only the first few notes in order to recall the rest of the melody.\n\nIn his \"Meno\", Plato raises an important epistemological quandary: How is it that we have certain ideas which are not conclusively derivable from our environments? Noam Chomsky has taken this problem as a philosophical framework for the scientific enquiry into innatism. His linguistic theory, which derives from 18th century classical-liberal thinkers such as Wilhelm von Humboldt, attempts to explain in cognitive terms how we can develop knowledge of systems which are said, by supporters of innatism, to be too rich and complex to be derived from our environment. One such example is our linguistic faculty. Our linguistic systems contain a systemic complexity which supposedly could not be empirically derived: the environment seems too poor, variable and indeterminate, according to Chomsky, to explain the extraordinary ability to learn complex concepts possessed by very young children. Essentially, their accurate grammatical knowledge cannot have originated from their experiences as their experiences are not adequate. It follows that humans must be born with a universal innate grammar, which is determinate and has a highly organized directive component, and enables the language learner to ascertain and categorize language heard into a system. Chomsky states that the ability to learn how to properly construct sentences or know which sentences are grammatically incorrect is an ability gained from innate knowledge. Noam Chomsky cites as evidence for this theory, the apparent invariability, according to his views, of human languages at a fundamental level. In this way, linguistics may provide a window into the human mind, and establish scientific theories of innateness which otherwise would remain merely speculative.\n\nOne implication of Noam Chomsky's innatism, if correct, is that at least a part of human knowledge consists in cognitive predispositions, which are triggered and developed by the environment, but not determined by it. Chomsky suggests that we can look at how a belief is acquired as an input-output situation. He supports the doctrine of innatism as he states that human beliefs gathered from sensory experience are much richer and complex than the experience itself. He asserts that the extra information gathered is from the mind itself as it cannot solely be from experiences. Humans derive excess amount of information from their environment so some of that information must be pre-determined.\n\nParallels can then be drawn, on a purely speculative level, between our moral faculties and language, as has been done by sociobiologists such as E. O. Wilson and evolutionary psychologists such as Steven Pinker. The relative consistency of fundamental notions of morality across cultures seems to produce convincing evidence for these theories. In psychology, notions of archetypes such as those developed by Carl Jung, suggest determinate identity perceptions.\n\nEvidence for innatism is being found by neuroscientists working on the Blue Brain Project. They discovered that neurons transmit signals despite an individual's experience. It had been previously assumed that neuronal circuits are made when the experience of an individual is imprinted in the brain, making memories. Researchers at Blue Brain discovered a network of about fifty neurons which they believed were building blocks of more complex knowledge but contained basic innate knowledge that could be combined in different more complex ways to give way to acquired knowledge, like memory.\n\nScientists ran tests on the neuronal circuits of several rats and ascertained that if the neuronal circuits had only been formed based on an individual's experience, the tests would bring about very different characteristics for each rat. However, the rats all displayed similar characteristics which suggests that their neuronal circuits must have been established previously to their experiences – it must be inborn and created prior to their experiences. The research done in the Blue Brain project expresses that some the building blocks of all our knowledge, is genetic and we're born with it.\n\nThere are two ways in which animals can gain knowledge. The first of these two ways is learning. This is when an animal gathers information about its surrounding environment and then proceeds to use this information. For example, if an animal eats something that hurts its stomach, it has learned not to eat this again. The second way that an animal can acquire knowledge is through innate knowledge. This knowledge is genetically inherited. The animal automatically knows it without any prior experience. An example of this is when a horse is born and can immediately walk. The horse has not learned this behavior; it simply knows how to do it. In some scenarios, innate knowledge is more beneficial than learned knowledge. However, in other scenarios the opposite is true.\n\nIn a changing environment, an animal must constantly be gaining new information in order to survive. However, in a stable environment this same individual need only to gather the information it needs once and rely on it for the duration of its life. Therefore, there are different scenarios in which learning or innate knowledge is better suited.\nEssentially, the cost of obtaining certain knowledge versus the benefit of having it determined whether an animal evolved to learn in a given situation or whether it innately knew the information. If the cost of gaining the knowledge outweighed the benefit of having it, then the individual would not have evolved to learn in this scenario; instead, non-learning would evolve. However, if the benefit of having certain information outweighed the cost of obtaining it, then the animal would be far more likely to evolve to have to learn this information.\n\nNon-learning is more likely to evolve in two scenarios. If an environment is static and change does not or rarely occurs then learning would simply be unnecessary. Because there is no need for learning in this scenario – and because learning could prove to be disadvantageous due to the time it took to learn the information – non-learning evolves. However, if an environment were in a constant state of change then learning would also prove to be disadvantageous. Anything learned would immediately become irrelevant because of the changing environment. The learned information would no longer apply. Essentially, the animal would be just as successful if it took a guess as if it learned. In this situation, non-learning would evolve.\n\nHowever, in environments where change occurs but is not constant, learning is more likely to evolve. Learning is beneficial in these scenarios because an animal can adapt to the new situation, but can still apply the knowledge that it learns for a somewhat extended period of time. Therefore, learning increases the chances of success as opposed to guessing and adapts to changes in the environment as opposed to innate knowledge.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54738", "title": "Interpretations of quantum mechanics", "text": "Interpretations of quantum mechanics\n\nAn interpretation of quantum mechanics is an attempt to explain how the mathematical theory of quantum mechanics corresponds to reality. Although quantum mechanics has held up to rigorous and extremely precise tests in an extraordinarily broad range of experiments, there exist a number of contending schools of thought over their interpretation. These views differ on such fundamental questions as whether quantum mechanics is deterministic or random, which elements of quantum mechanics can be considered \"real\", and what is the nature of measurement, among other matters.\n\nDespite nearly a century of debate and experiment, no consensus has been reached amongst physicists and philosophers of physics concerning which interpretation best represents reality.\n\nThe definition of quantum theorists' terms, such as \"wave functions\" and \"matrix mechanics\", progressed through many stages. For instance, Erwin Schrödinger originally viewed the electron's wave function as its charge density smeared across the field, whereas Max Born reinterpreted the absolute square value of the wave function as the electron's probability density distributed across the field.\n\nAlthough the Copenhagen interpretation was originally most popular, quantum decoherence has gained popularity. Thus the many-worlds interpretation has been gaining acceptance. Moreover, the strictly formalist position, shunning interpretation, has been challenged by proposals for falsifiable experiments that might one day distinguish among interpretations, as by measuring an AI consciousness or via quantum computing.\n\nAs a rough guide development of the mainstream view during the 1990s to 2000s, consider the \"snapshot\" of opinions collected in a poll by Schlosshauer et al. at the 2011 \"Quantum Physics and the Nature of Reality\" conference of July 2011.\nThe authors reference a similarly informal poll carried out by Max Tegmark at the \"Fundamental Problems in Quantum Theory\" conference in August 1997. The main conclusion of the authors is that \"the Copenhagen interpretation still reigns supreme\", receiving the most votes in their poll (42%), besides the rise to mainstream notability of the many-worlds interpretations:\n\nIt is noteworthy that only Cramer's transactional interpretation, published in 1986, assigns physical basis to Max Born's assertion that the absolute square of the wave function is a probability density.\n\nMore or less, all interpretations of quantum mechanics share two qualities:\nTwo qualities vary among interpretations:\n\nIn philosophy of science, the distinction of knowledge versus reality is termed \"epistemic\" versus \"ontic\". A general law is a \"regularity\" of outcomes (epistemic), whereas a causal mechanism may \"regulate\" the outcomes (ontic). A phenomenon can receive interpretation either ontic or epistemic. For instance, indeterminism may be attributed to limitations of human observation and perception (epistemic), or may be explained as a real existing \"maybe\" encoded in the universe (ontic). Confusing the epistemic with the ontic, like if one were to presume that a general law actually \"governs\" outcomes—and that the statement of a regularity has the role of a causal mechanism—is a category mistake.\n\nIn a broad sense, scientific theory can be viewed as offering scientific realism—approximately true description or explanation of the natural world—or might be perceived with antirealism. A realist stance seeks the epistemic and the ontic, whereas an antirealist stance seeks epistemic but not the ontic. In the 20th century's first half, antirealism was mainly logical positivism, which sought to exclude unobservable aspects of reality from scientific theory.\n\nSince the 1950s, antirealism is more modest, usually instrumentalism, permitting talk of unobservable aspects, but ultimately discarding the very question of realism and posing scientific theory as a tool to help humans make predictions, not to attain metaphysical understanding of the world. The instrumentalist view is carried by the famous quote of David Mermin, \"Shut up and calculate\", often misattributed to Richard Feynman.\n\nOther approaches to resolve conceptual problems introduce new mathematical formalism, and so propose alternative theories with their interpretations. An example is Bohmian mechanics, whose empirical equivalence with the three standard formalisms—Schrödinger's wave mechanics, Heisenberg's matrix mechanics, and Feynman's path integral formalism—has been demonstrated.\n\n\nAn interpretation (i.e. a semantic explanation of the formal mathematics of quantum mechanics) can be characterized by its treatment of certain matters addressed by Einstein, such as:\n\nTo explain these properties, we need to be more explicit about the kind of picture an interpretation provides. To that end we will regard an interpretation as a correspondence between the elements of the mathematical formalism M and the elements of an interpreting structure I, where:\n\nThe crucial aspect of an interpretation is whether the elements of I are regarded as physically real. Hence the bare instrumentalist view of quantum mechanics outlined in the previous section is not an interpretation at all, for it makes no claims about elements of physical reality.\n\nThe current usage of realism and completeness originated in the 1935 paper in which Einstein and others proposed the EPR paradox. In that paper the authors proposed the concepts \"element of reality\" and the \"completeness of a physical theory\". They characterised element of reality as a quantity whose value can be predicted with certainty before measuring or otherwise disturbing it, and defined a complete physical theory as one in which every element of physical reality is accounted for by the theory. In a semantic view of interpretation, an interpretation is complete if every element of the interpreting structure is present in the mathematics. Realism is also a property of each of the elements of the maths; an element is real if it corresponds to something in the interpreting structure. For example, in some interpretations of quantum mechanics (such as the many-worlds interpretation) the ket vector associated to the system state is said to correspond to an element of physical reality, while in other interpretations it is not.\n\nDeterminism is a property characterizing state changes due to the passage of time, namely that the state at a future instant is a function of the state in the present (see time evolution). It may not always be clear whether a particular interpretation is deterministic or not, as there may not be a clear choice of a time parameter. Moreover, a given theory may have two interpretations, one of which is deterministic and the other not.\n\nLocal realism has two aspects:\n\nA precise formulation of local realism in terms of a local hidden-variable theory was proposed by John Bell.\n\nBell's theorem, combined with experimental testing, restricts the kinds of properties a quantum theory can have, the primary implication being that quantum mechanics cannot satisfy both the principle of locality and counterfactual definiteness.\n\nIt should be noted that regardless of Einstein's concerns about interpretation issues, Dirac and other quantum notables embraced the technical advances of the new theory while devoting little or no attention to interpretational aspects.\n\nThe Copenhagen interpretation is the \"standard\" interpretation of quantum mechanics formulated by Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg while collaborating in Copenhagen around 1927. Bohr and Heisenberg extended the probabilistic interpretation of the wavefunction proposed originally by Max Born. The Copenhagen interpretation rejects questions like \"where was the particle before I measured its position?\" as meaningless. The measurement process randomly picks out exactly one of the many possibilities allowed for by the state's wave function in a manner consistent with the well-defined probabilities that are assigned to each possible state. According to the interpretation, the interaction of an observer or apparatus that is external to the quantum system is the cause of wave function collapse, thus according to Paul Davies, \"reality is in the observations, not in the electron\". In general, after a measurement (click of a Geiger counter or a trajectory in a spark or bubble chamber) it ceases to be relevant unless subsequent experimental observations can be performed.\n\nThe many-worlds interpretation is an interpretation of quantum mechanics in which a universal wavefunction obeys the same deterministic, reversible laws at all times; in particular there is no (indeterministic and irreversible) wavefunction collapse associated with measurement. The phenomena associated with measurement are claimed to be explained by decoherence, which occurs when states interact with the environment producing entanglement, repeatedly \"splitting\" the universe into mutually unobservable alternate histories—effectively distinct universes within a greater multiverse.\n\nThe consistent histories interpretation generalizes the conventional Copenhagen interpretation and attempts to provide a natural interpretation of quantum cosmology. The theory is based on a consistency criterion that allows the history of a system to be described so that the probabilities for each history obey the additive rules of classical probability. It is claimed to be consistent with the Schrödinger equation.\n\nAccording to this interpretation, the purpose of a quantum-mechanical theory is to predict the relative probabilities of various alternative histories (for example, of a particle).\n\nThe ensemble interpretation, also called the statistical interpretation, can be viewed as a minimalist interpretation. That is, it claims to make the fewest assumptions associated with the standard mathematics. It takes the statistical interpretation of Born to the fullest extent. The interpretation states that the wave function does not apply to an individual systemfor example, a single particlebut is an abstract statistical quantity that only applies to an ensemble (a vast multitude) of similarly prepared systems or particles. Probably the most notable supporter of such an interpretation was Einstein:\n\nThe most prominent current advocate of the ensemble interpretation is Leslie E. Ballentine, professor at Simon Fraser University, author of the graduate level text book \"Quantum Mechanics, A Modern Development\". An experiment illustrating the ensemble interpretation is provided in Akira Tonomura's Video clip 1. It is evident from this double-slit experiment with an ensemble of individual electrons that, since the quantum mechanical wave function (absolutely squared) describes the \"completed\" interference pattern, it must describe an ensemble.\nA new version of the ensemble interpretation that relies on a reformulation of probability theory was introduced by Raed Shaiia.\n\nThe de Broglie–Bohm theory of quantum mechanics (also known as the pilot wave theory) is a theory by Louis de Broglie and extended later by David Bohm to include measurements. Particles, which always have positions, are guided by the wavefunction. The wavefunction evolves according to the Schrödinger wave equation, and the wavefunction never collapses. The theory takes place in a single space-time, is non-local, and is deterministic. The simultaneous determination of a particle's position and velocity is subject to the usual uncertainty principle constraint. The theory is considered to be a hidden-variable theory, and by embracing non-locality it satisfies Bell's inequality. The measurement problem is resolved, since the particles have definite positions at all times. Collapse is explained as phenomenological.\n\nThe essential idea behind relational quantum mechanics, following the precedent of special relativity, is that different observers may give different accounts of the same series of events: for example, to one observer at a given point in time, a system may be in a single, \"collapsed\" eigenstate, while to another observer at the same time, it may be in a superposition of two or more states. Consequently, if quantum mechanics is to be a complete theory, relational quantum mechanics argues that the notion of \"state\" describes not the observed system itself, but the relationship, or correlation, between the system and its observer(s). The state vector of conventional quantum mechanics becomes a description of the correlation of some \"degrees of freedom\" in the observer, with respect to the observed system. However, it is held by relational quantum mechanics that this applies to all physical objects, whether or not they are conscious or macroscopic. Any \"measurement event\" is seen simply as an ordinary physical interaction, an establishment of the sort of correlation discussed above. Thus the physical content of the theory has to do not with objects themselves, but the relations between them.\n\nAn independent relational approach to quantum mechanics was developed in analogy with David Bohm's elucidation of special relativity, in which a detection event is regarded as establishing a relationship between the quantized field and the detector. The inherent ambiguity associated with applying Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is subsequently avoided.\n\nThe transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics (TIQM) by John G. Cramer is an interpretation of quantum mechanics inspired by the Wheeler–Feynman absorber theory. It describes the collapse of the wave function as resulting from a time-symmetric transaction between a possibility wave from the source to the receiver (the wave function) and a possibility wave from the receiver to source (the complex conjugate of the wave function). Since the possibility wave is collapsed by interaction with the receiver, consciousness plays no role in the theory, eliminating Schrödinger's cat paradox. This interpretation of quantum mechanics is unique in that it not only views the wave function as a real entity, but the complex conjugate of the wave function, which appears in the Born rule for calculating the expected value for an observable, as also real.\n\nAn entirely classical derivation and interpretation of Schrödinger's wave equation by analogy with Brownian motion was suggested by Princeton University professor Edward Nelson in 1966. Similar considerations had previously been published, for example by R. Fürth (1933), I. Fényes (1952), and Walter Weizel (1953), and are referenced in Nelson's paper. More recent work on the stochastic interpretation has been done by M. Pavon. An alternative stochastic interpretation was developed by Roumen Tsekov.\n\nObjective collapse theories differ from the Copenhagen interpretation by regarding both the wave function and the process of collapse as ontologically objective (meaning these exist and occur independent of the observer). In objective theories, collapse occurs either randomly (\"spontaneous localization\") or when some physical threshold is reached, with observers having no special role. Thus, objective-collapse theories are realistic, indeterministic, no-hidden-variables theories. Standard quantum mechanics does not specify any mechanism of collapse; QM would need to be extended if objective collapse is correct. The requirement for an extension to QM means that objective collapse is more of a theory than an interpretation. Examples include \n\nIn his treatise \"The Mathematical Foundations of Quantum Mechanics\", John von Neumann deeply analyzed the so-called measurement problem. He concluded that the entire physical universe could be made subject to the Schrödinger equation (the universal wave function). He also described how measurement could cause a collapse of the wave function. This point of view was prominently expanded on by Eugene Wigner, who argued that human experimenter consciousness (or maybe even dog consciousness) was critical for the collapse, but he later abandoned this interpretation.\n\nVariations of the consciousness causes collapse interpretation include:\n\nOther physicists have elaborated their own variations of the consciousness causes collapse interpretation; including:\n\nThe many-minds interpretation of quantum mechanics extends the many-worlds interpretation by proposing that the distinction between worlds should be made at the level of the mind of an individual observer.\n\nQuantum logic can be regarded as a kind of propositional logic suitable for understanding the apparent anomalies regarding quantum measurement, most notably those concerning composition of measurement operations of complementary variables. This research area and its name originated in the 1936 paper by Garrett Birkhoff and John von Neumann, who attempted to reconcile some of the apparent inconsistencies of classical boolean logic with the facts related to measurement and observation in quantum mechanics.\n\nQuantum informational approaches have attracted growing support. They subdivide into two kinds\n\nThe state is not an objective property of an individual system but is that information, obtained from a knowledge of how a system was prepared, which can be used for making predictions about future measurements.\n...A quantum mechanical state being a summary of the observer's information about an individual physical system changes both by dynamical laws, and whenever the observer acquires new information about the system through the process of measurement. The existence of two laws for the evolution of the state vector...becomes problematical only if it is believed that the state vector is an objective property of the system...The \"reduction of the wavepacket\" does take place in the consciousness of the observer, not because of any unique physical process which takes place there, but only because the state is a construct of the observer and not an objective property of the physical system\nModal interpretations of quantum mechanics were first conceived of in 1972 by B. van Fraassen, in his paper \"A formal approach to the philosophy of science.\" However, this term now is used to describe a larger set of models that grew out of this approach. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy describes several versions:\n\nSeveral theories have been proposed which modify the equations of quantum mechanics to be symmetric with respect to time reversal. (E.g. see Wheeler-Feynman time-symmetric theory). This creates retrocausality: events in the future can affect ones in the past, exactly as events in the past can affect ones in the future. In these theories, a single measurement cannot fully determine the state of a system (making them a type of hidden-variables theory), but given two measurements performed at different times, it is possible to calculate the exact state of the system at all intermediate times. The collapse of the wavefunction is therefore not a physical change to the system, just a change in our knowledge of it due to the second measurement. Similarly, they explain entanglement as not being a true physical state but just an illusion created by ignoring retrocausality. The point where two particles appear to \"become entangled\" is simply a point where each particle is being influenced by events that occur to the other particle in the future.\n\nNot all advocates of time-symmetric causality favour modifying the unitary dynamics of standard quantum mechanics. Thus a leading exponent of the two-state vector formalism, Lev Vaidman, highlights how well the two-state vector formalism dovetails with Hugh Everett's many-worlds interpretation.\n\nBST theories resemble the many worlds interpretation; however, \"the main difference is that the BST interpretation takes the branching of history to be a feature of the topology of the set of events with their causal relationships... rather than a consequence of the separate evolution of different components of a state vector.\" In MWI, it is the wave functions that branches, whereas in BST, the space-time topology itself branches.\nBST has applications to Bell's theorem, quantum computation and quantum gravity. It also has some resemblance to hidden-variable theories and the ensemble interpretation: particles in BST have multiple well defined trajectories at the microscopic level. These can only be treated stochastically at a coarse grained level, in line with the ensemble interpretation.\n\nAs well as the mainstream interpretations discussed above, a number of other interpretations have been proposed which have not made a significant scientific impact for whatever reason. These range from proposals by mainstream physicists to the more occult ideas of quantum mysticism.\n\nThe most common interpretations are summarized in the table below. The values shown in the cells of the table are not without controversy, for the precise meanings of some of the concepts involved are unclear and, in fact, are themselves at the center of the controversy surrounding the given interpretation. For another table comparing interpretations of quantum theory, see reference.\n\nNo experimental evidence exists that distinguishes among these interpretations. To that extent, the physical theory stands, and is consistent with itself and with reality; difficulties arise only when one attempts to \"interpret\" the theory. Nevertheless, designing experiments which would test the various interpretations is the subject of active research.\n\nMost of these interpretations have variants. For example, it is difficult to get a precise definition of the Copenhagen interpretation as it was developed and argued about by many people.\n\n\nAlmost all authors below are professional physicists.\n\n"}
{"id": "30874615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874615", "title": "Ismail al-Faruqi", "text": "Ismail al-Faruqi\n\nIsma'il Raji al-Faruqi ( January 1, 1921 – May 27, 1986), was a Palestinian-American philosopher, widely recognised by his peers as an authority on Islam and comparative religion. He spent several years at Al-Azhar University in Cairo, then taught at several universities in North America, including McGill University in Montreal. He was Professor of Religion at Temple University, where he founded and chaired the Islamic Studies program. Al-Faruqi was also the founder of the International Institute of Islamic Thought. He wrote over 100 articles for various scholarly journals and magazines in addition to 25 books, of the most notable being \"Christian Ethics: A Historical and Systematic Analysis of Its Dominant Ideas\". He also established the Islamic Studies Group of the American Academy of Religion and chaired it for ten years. He served as the vice-president of the Inter-Religious Peace Colloquium, The Muslim-Jewish-Christian Conference and as the president of the American Islamic College in Chicago.\n\nAl-Faruqi and his wife, Lois Lamya al-Faruqi, were stabbed to death in their home in Wyncote, Pennsylvania on May 27, 1986.\n\nAl-Faruqi was born in Jaffa, in British-mandate Palestine. His father, 'Abd al-Huda al-Faruqi, was an Islamic judge (\"qadi\") and a religious man well-versed in Islamic scholarship. Faruqi received his religious education at home from his father and in the local mosque. He began to attend the French Dominican College Des Frères (St. Joseph) in 1936.\n\nHis first appointment was as a registrar of cooperative societies (1942) under the British Mandate government in Jerusalem, which appointed him in 1945 the district governor of Galilee. Subsequent to the partition plan of Palestine, and the creation of the independent Jewish state of Israel in 1948, al-Faruqi at first emigrated to Beirut, Lebanon, where he studied at the American University of Beirut, then enrolled the next year at Indiana University's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, obtaining his M.A. in philosophy in 1949. He was then accepted for entry into Harvard University's department of philosophy and was awarded his second M.A. in philosophy there in March 1951, with a thesis entitled \"Justifying the Good: Metaphysics and Epistemology of Value\" (1952). His dissertation was deeply influenced by the phenomenology of Max Scheler (1874–1928), particularly the latter's notion of axiological intuitionism. Al-Faruqi argued that Scheler's axiological intuitionism privileged feeling as knowing, thus recognizing the logic of the heart as an \"a priori\" emotional intuition of value. Such recognition could justify carving out a conceptual as well as practical space for the emergence of a critique of post-Enlightenment Reason from the standpoint of a non-Western philosopher. However, he decided to return to Indiana University; he submitted his thesis to the Department of Philosophy and received his PhD in September 1952. By then he had a background in classical philosophy and the developing thought of the western tradition. In the beginning of 1953, he and his wife were in Syria. He then moved to Egypt, where he studied at Al-Azhar University (1954–1958) again with a view to acquiring another PhD.\n\nIn 1958, al-Faruqi was offered a position as a visiting fellow at the Faculty of Divinity at McGill University in Canada. During his two-year tenure at McGill, he studied Christian theology and Judaism, and became acquainted with the famous Pakistani Muslim philosopher Fazlur Rahman. During these years, al-Faruqi was preoccupied with his anti-Zionist Arab identity. Rahman reminisced in 1986 that al-Faruqi's blunt anti-Zionism and his refusal to play the detached scholar \"frightened\" his McGill colleagues. Although he was soft-spoken with unfailing smiles, at McGill he was considered to be, in Rahman's words, \"an angry young Muslim Palestinian\". In order to challenge al-Faruqi's Arabo-centric views of Islam, and to broaden his scope of understanding the ummah, in 1961, Rahman arranged a two-year appointment for him in Pakistan at the Central Institute of Islamic Research. Rahman intended to expose al-Faruqi to the cultural diversity of Muslims and their contributions to Islam. \"Except\", Rahman (1986) later recalled, \"it was his Arabism which drew a great deal of fire both inside and outside the Institute, as well as his academic preference for Cairo\".\n\nIn 1963, after returning to the United States, he was hired as a visiting professor at the University of Chicago's Divinity School. Between 1964 and 1968, al-Faruqi established himself as an associate professor at the Department of Religion at Syracuse University, where he initiated its programme in Islamic Studies. In 1968, he accepted a position at Temple University as a professor of religion, where he also founded the Islamic Studies Programme. He held that position until his death in 1986.\n\nMuch of al-Faruqi's early thought is associated with what he called \"urubah\" (Arabism). In his 1962 book, \"On Arabism: Urubah and Religion\", he argued that urubah comprises the core identity and set of values which embrace all Muslims, a single community of believers (ummah). Al-Faruqi formulated the notion of \"urubah\" in contradistinction to two other hegemonic ideologies: Arab nationalism and non-Arab Islamic revivalism. Adopting an overtly essentialist position, he argued that more than merely the language of the Qur'an, Arabic provided the only possible linguistic structure within which the Islamic conception of the world could be apprehended. Therefore, he asserted that \"urubah\" captured the core of Muslim consciousness, its values and faith – it was inseparable from the identity of all Muslims (al-Faruqi, 1962: 2–30).\n\nHe also maintained that \"urubah\" was the only context within which the non-Muslim Arabs countries could integrate into their larger societies. Even non-Muslim Arabs, according to al-Faruqi, could identify with \"urubah\" expressed in the Qur'an. In effect, \"urubah\" left non-Muslim Arabs and non-Arab Muslims at the mercy of combined linguistic and religious essentialisms. Any other form of consciousness and identity was a distortion created by colonial penetration (al-Faruqi, 1962: 211).\n\nThough few would question Arab influence on non-Arab Muslim faith and culture or Arab Muslim influence on non-Muslim Arabs, the implication that they both find their ultimate expression and fulfilment in al-Faruqi's interpretation of Arabism might be regarded by some as an attempt to establish the hegemony of Arab Islam or, more precisely, Arab Muslim culture. Both Arab nationalists and non-Arab Muslim intellectuals shunned al-Faruqi's agenda to bring non-Arab Muslims and non-Muslim Arabs together through \"urubah\". While many Muslim intellectuals such as Fazlur Rahman agreed with al-Faruqi's assertion that the Qur'an could not achieve the same eloquence and expressiveness in any other languages except Arabic, they were critical of al-Faruqi's blatant Arab chauvinism. Al-Faruqi's sojourn in Pakistan did little to alter his doctrine of \"urubah\".\n\nIt was in the United States several years later that he began to question the foundations of his earlier position. In 1968, for the first time he encountered members of the Muslim Students' Association (MSA) at Temple University. The convergence of Muslim students from diverse cultural backgrounds dramatically swayed his perception of Arab versus Islamic identity. In the spring of 1968, while a patient at the Johns Hopkins Ophthalmology Centre, al-Faruqi confided in one of the active members of the MSA, Ilyas Ba-Yunus, \"Until a few months ago, I was a Palestinian, an Arab, and a Muslim. Now I am a Muslim who happens to be an Arab from Palestine\" (Ba-Yunus, 1988: 14).\n\nAl-Faruqi's early emphasis was on Arabism as the vehicle of Islam and Muslim identity. He was also one of those who proposed the idea of Islamization of knowledge and founded the International Institute of Islamic Thought (IIIT) together with Sheikh Taha Jabir al-Alwani, Dr. Abdul Hamid Sulayman, former Rector of the International Islamic University, Malaysia (IIUM) and Anwar Ibrahim, in 1980.\n\nDuring his years as a visiting professor of Islamic studies and scholar-in-residence at McGill University, a professor of Islamic studies at Karachi's Central Institute of Islamic Research as well as a visiting professor at various universities in Northern America, he wrote over 100 articles for various scholarly journals and magazines in addition to 25 books, of the most notable being \"Christian Ethics: A Historical and Systematic Analysis of Its Dominant Ideas\". He also established the Islamic Studies Group of the American Academy of Religion and chaired it for ten years. He served as the vice-president of the Inter-Religious Peace Colloqium, The Muslim-Jewish-Christian Conference and as the president of the American Islamic College in Chicago.\n\nAl-Faruqi viewed the existence of Israel as an affront towards the religion of Judaism due to its state ideology of Zionism. He said that the injustice caused by Zionism is such as to necessitate war. He proposed a resolution in which Israel is dismantled and its institutions de-Zionised; and that former Israeli Jews who have renounced Zionism would live as an \"ummatic community\" and move freely throughout the Muslim world: \"[Islam] requires the Jews to set up their own rabbinic courts and put its whole executive power at its disposal. The \"shari'ah\", the law of Islam, demands of all Jews to submit themselves to the precepts of Jewish law as interpreted by the rabbinic courts, and treats defiance or contempt of the rabbinic court as rebellion against the Islamic state itself, on a par with like action on the part of a Muslim vis-à-vis the Islamic court.\"\n\nIn May 1986, Al-Faruqi and his wife were murdered in their Pennsylvania home, in a knife attack committed by a Black Muslim, Joseph Louis Young, who was also known by the Muslim name, Yusuf Ali. Young confessed to the crime and was sentenced to the death penalty and died in prison of natural causes in 1996.\n\nA list of publications by Ismail R. al-Faruqi follows.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7709402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7709402", "title": "Johanne Agerskov", "text": "Johanne Agerskov\n\nJohanne Elisabeth Agerskov (1873–1946) was a Danish medium. Together with her husband, Michael Agerskov, she was responsible for the ethico-religious, philosophical, and pseudo-scientific book, \"Toward the Light\" (in Danish, \"Vandrer mod Lyset!\"), first published by Michael Agerskov in Copenhagen in 1920.\n\nShe was a daughter of a Dutch inventor, minister and principal of the Royal Institute for Deaf-Mutes in Copenhagen Rasmus Malling-Hansen ( 1835 - 1890 ).\n\nIn her younger days Johanne Agerskov worked as a teacher, and she married Michael Agerskov in 1899. Their only daughter, Inger Agerskov, was born in 1900, and Johanne became a housewife. \n\nDuring the first decade of the twentieth century, Michael became interested in spiritual phenomena, and persuaded his wife to participate in séances, even though she was skeptical in the beginning. Soon Johanne came to believe that the spirits of the transcendental world had called upon her, and had given her the message that she was a medium, and that before her birth she had promised to be instrumental in bringing eternal truths to mankind.\n\nConvinced that she had a special mission, Agerskov and her husband formed a circle with two more couples, and for many years held weekly séances, in which they believed messages from the spirits of the light were given to Agerskov through intuitive thought-inspiration. She claimed a unique ability to close off her own thoughts, so that all she could \"hear\" in her mind, according to her, was the thoughts of the spirit with whom she was supposed to be in contact. That was very demanding, and in that period she gave up all the pleasures of social life, in order to be focused and prepared for the séances. The members of the circle would submit questions for her to ask the spirits, and shortly she would give them answers, supposedly from the spirits, which the other participants would write down.\n\nThat resulted in the publication of the book, \"Toward the Light\", which Agerskov called \"a message to mankind from the transcendental world\", and which she and her husband sent out to all the bishops and sixty ministers of the Danish national church. Their hope was that these would participate in a reformation of the Danish church, based upon the new knowledge given in \"Toward the Light\". The Agerskovs made great efforts to that end, through correspondence and by opening their home to anybody who wanted to see them about \"Toward the Light\"; but there was little public interest in the book, and the expected reformation did not take place.\n\nJohanne Agerskov was also deeply engaged in the work of her father. In 1924 a Danish professor asserted that Malling-Hansen was not the inventor of the Hansen Writing Ball, and Agerskov undertook a thorough investigation of the facts, together with her sister, Engelke Wiberg. They wrote several articles on the subject, and Agerskov also wrote a book, called \"Hvem var Skrivekuglens Opfinder?\" (\"Who was the Inventor of the Writing Ball?\"), published in Copenhagen in 1925.\n\nIn 1926 a Society for the Advancement of \"Toward the Light\" was formed , which offered religious services for its members, based on \"Toward the Light\". Agerskov was skeptical, however, because \"Toward the Light\" calls on believers to remain in the established church and to work for reformation from within.\n\nEven though the Agerskovs in the beginning had participated in spiritualist séances, they soon asked their followers to end that activity, because, as they asserted in \"Toward the Light\", calling on the spirits of deceased ancestors would bring problems to those who could not resist the call to appear. The spirits, they said, needed to rest and to prepare for their next incarnation, and were not allowed to visit the earth.\n\nMichael Agerskov died in 1933, but Johanne continued to answer letters and to publish up until 1938, in collaboration with their daughter. During the last years of her life, Johanne Agerskov suffered from illness, and was not able to leave her home.\n\nThere has been controversy among Agerskov's followers over whether or not to publish photos of her, as she said to destroy all her own pictures of herself before she died. Some of the followers of \"Toward the Light!\" contend that her will in this matter should be respected, and oppose the publication of such pictures.\n\nOthers see nothing wrong with publishing photos of her, considering that photos of her are available in public collections in both Denmark and Norway, and on the World-Wide Web. This article contains photos of both Agerskov and her husband, supplied by their descendants, who have no objection to their publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24175782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24175782", "title": "Legitimation Crisis (book)", "text": "Legitimation Crisis (book)\n\nLegitimation Crisis () is a 1973 book by Jürgen Habermas, published in English in 1975 by Beacon Press, translated and with an introduction by Thomas McCarthy. It was originally published by Suhrkamp. The title refers to a decline in the confidence of administrative functions, institutions, or leadership: a legitimation crisis.\n"}
{"id": "323508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323508", "title": "Lion of Judah", "text": "Lion of Judah\n\nThe Lion of Judah (Hebrew: ) is a Jewish national and cultural symbol, traditionally regarded as the symbol of the Israelite tribe of Judah. According to the Torah, the tribe consists of the descendants of Judah, the fourth son of Jacob. The association between Judah and the lion can first be found in the blessing given by Jacob to his son Judah in the Book of Genesis.\n\nThe Lion of Judah is also mentioned in the Book of Revelation, as a term representing Jesus, according to Christian theology. The lion of Judah was also one of the titles of the Solomonic Emperors of Ethiopia. It was depicted on a map of the Upper Nile published in 1683 by the Italian Jobi Ludolfi describing the Lion of Judah symbol as the Royal Insignia of the Ethiopian empire. The Solomonic dynasty of Ethiopia lasted three thousand years according and has its patrilineal origin in the Israelite Royal House of Judah. The Lion of Judah served as the hereditary title of the Solomonic Ethiopian emperors including Menelik and Haile Selassie and was depicted on the flag of Ethiopia from 1897 to 1974. Due to its association with Haile Selassie, it continues to be an important symbol among members of the Rastafari movement.\n\nThe biblical Judah (in Hebrew: \"Yehuda\") is the eponymous ancestor of the Tribe of Judah, which is traditionally symbolized by a lion. In Genesis, the patriarch Jacob (\"Israel\") gave that symbol to this tribe when he refers to his son Judah as a \"Gur Aryeh\" גּוּר אַרְיֵה יְהוּדָה, \"Young Lion\" (Genesis 49:9) when blessing him. In Jewish naming tradition the Hebrew name and the substitute name are often combined as a pair, as in this case. The Lion of Judah was used as a Jewish symbol for many years, and as Jerusalem was the capital of the Kingdom of Judah, in 1950 it was included in the Emblem of Jerusalem.\n\nEthiopia's history as recorded and elaborated in a 13th-century treatise, the \"Kebre Negest\", asserts descent from a retinue of Israelites who returned with Makeda, the Queen of Sheba from her visit to King Solomon in Jerusalem, by whom she had conceived the Solomonic dynasty's founder Menelik I. As Solomon was of the tribe of Judah, his son Menelik I would continue the line, which according to Ethiopian history was passed directly down from king to king until Emperor Haile Selassie I (ostensibly the 225th king from King David) was deposed in 1974.\n\nBoth Christian and Jewish Ethiopian history have it that there were also immigrants of the Tribes of Dan and Judah that accompanied Makeda back from her visit to Solomon; hence the Ge'ez motto \"Mo`a 'Anbessa Ze'imnegede Yihuda\" (\"The Lion of Judah has conquered\"), included among the titles of the Emperor throughout the Solomonic Dynasty. It is unknown whether John of Patmos was directly aware of this hereditary title when he penned it into the text of the prophecy.\n\nThe Lion of Judah motif figured prominently on the old imperial flag, currency, stamps, etc. and may still be seen gracing the terrace of the capital as a national symbol. After the collapse of the Communist Derg in 1990 and the increase of Western-style political freedoms, a minor political party bearing the name \"Mo'a Anbessa\" made its appearance.\n\nThe Lion of Judah is a prominent symbol in the Rastafari movement. It represents Emperor Haile Selassie I as well as being a symbol of strength, kingship, pride and African sovereignty.\nRastafari consider the mention of \"The Lion of Judah\" in Genesis 49:9 and Revelation 5:5 of The Bible to refer to Emperor Haile Selassie I. Rastafari hail Haile Selassie I with the titles \"KING of Kings, LORD of lords, Conquering Lion of Judah, Elect of God, the Light of the World\".\n\nThe phrase appears in the New Testament in : \"And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.\" This is widely regarded as a reference to Jesus among Christians.\n\nMany Christian organizations and ministries use the lion of Judah as their emblem or even as their name.\n\nInspired by the Lion of Judah, C. S. Lewis used a lion named Aslan to represent Jesus in \"The Chronicles of Narnia\".\n\n"}
{"id": "433293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433293", "title": "List of utilitarians", "text": "List of utilitarians\n\nThis is an incomplete list of advocates of utilitarianism and/or consequentialism.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27509196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27509196", "title": "Lucy Allais", "text": "Lucy Allais\n\nLucy Allais is a philosopher who holds academic positions at both the University of the Witwatersrand and the University of California, San Diego. Her research interests include the philosophy of Immanuel Kant as well as forgiveness, punishment, and bioethics.\n\nAllais attained an undergraduate degree in Philosophy and Art History at the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits), Johannesburg, moving on to gain both a masters (B.Phil.) and D.Phil. at the University of Oxford. Following her D.Phil Dr. Allais taught for three years at Oxford, before moving to the University of Sussex in 2004. Between 2006 and 2008 Dr. Allais taught at the University of Witwatersrand. Beginning in 2008, Dr. Allais held a joint position between the University of the Witwatersrand, where she is now a full professor, and the University of Sussex. In 2014 she moved from Sussex to the University of California, San Diego, as the Henry Allison Chair of the History of Philosophy, keeping her joint appointment at the Witwatersrand.\n"}
{"id": "43278027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43278027", "title": "Manuel Sánchez Cuesta", "text": "Manuel Sánchez Cuesta\n\nManuel Sánchez Cuesta (born May 13, 1942 in San Martín del Castañar, Salamanca) is philosopher, ethicist and humanist.\n\nHe studied in the University of Salamanca, Complutense University of Madrid, Heidelberg University and the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas in Rome. He is Philosophical Doctor. Since 1991 he is professor of ethics in the Complutense University of Madrid. He has also taught logic at the same university, Spanish literature and Spanish history of philosophy at the Heidelberg University as well as ethics at the Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico. \nAmongst other publications, he has regularly written about ethics and politics in the newspaper \"Diario 16\", the paper \"Acontecimiento\", as well as about history of philosophy in the weekly magazine \"El Médico\".\n\nHis areas of research have focussed on the subjects of logic, history of philosophy and, in particular, ethics.\nIn the existential-personalistic humanism of Sánchez Cuesta\nthe everyday stands in the center of his ethical reflection. \nIt is in the everyday, in fact, where the time of each human being is transmuted into an indefinite number of possibilities that are permanently open him or her. In consequence, the person can not only be able to trace the goal that it aspires, but also provide it with a substantiating virtuous character. \"Whoever succeeds - writes Agapito Maestre (translated) - to live his daily life morally, and this and no other is the therapeutic value of this work [Note: that of Sánchez Cuesta], will have managed to make the \"carpe diem\" of the classics [Note: philosophers] come true.\"\nThe following applies to the writings of Professor Sánchez Cuesta in general. As one of his books´ review [\"The ethics of the Greeks\" (translated) or, \"La ética de los griegos\" (original title)] by Professor José Miguel Marinas summarizes: \"And here is undoubtedly the main attraction of an elegant work with apparently simple looks: is the text of a free man, which is aimed at adult readers\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28102393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28102393", "title": "Marlies ter Borg", "text": "Marlies ter Borg\n\nMarlies ter Borg-Neervoort ( born 24 December 1948, Pladjoe, Palembang) is a Dutch philosopher, editor and author. Her work focuses principally on the study of texts in the Bible and Qu'ran. She is the author of \"Koran en Bijbel in Verhalen\" (\"Qu'ran and Bible in Stories\") and \"Sharing Mary: Bible and Qu'ran side by side\". Both works focus on comparative textual analysis in both holy books.\n"}
{"id": "42876361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42876361", "title": "Mirza Mahdi Ashtiani", "text": "Mirza Mahdi Ashtiani\n\nMirza Mahdi Ashtiani (1888–1952) Man of wisdom, Mystic, Man of Literature, was A Great Master in the philosophical School of Tehran.\n\nMirza Mahdi was born in 1889 in Tehran. His Father, Mirza Jafar was the relatives of Hajj Mirza Muhammad Hasan Ashtiani Famous as the Little Mirza, one of the most great men of Knowledge in Tehran.\n\nMirza Mahdi Ashtiani passed his Infants and adolescence in Tehran. After he Learned the Preliminary courses, he participated in the sessions of Great Teachers. He could read the Quran completely when he was 5 years old.\n\nHe learned mathematics from scholars such as al-Shaykh 'Abd al-Husayn Siybiwayh, Mirza Ghaffariyan Najm al-Dula, Mirza Jahanbakhsh Munajjim Burujirdi and Aqa Shaykh Muhammad Husayn Riyadi.\n\nMirza Mahdi had many great teachers, some of which are as follows:\n\nHe taught in different places such as Marvi School, Sepahsalar School, and the school of Mirza Muhammad Khan Qazvini. Sayyed Jalal Addin Ashtiani Says that:\" He taught twelve times the book of Healing of Avicenna, two Times the book of Tamhid Al Qavaed and many times the book of Asfar of mulla Sadra.\n\nAqa Mirza MAhdi Ashtiani has many books in different subjects mainly in the sphere of Wisdom and mysticism. Some of them are:\n\nMirza Mahdi Ashtiyani died in April 23, 1953, and his body was buried in Shrine of Fatima al-Ma'suma in Qom, Iran.\n"}
{"id": "141628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=141628", "title": "Moral universalism", "text": "Moral universalism\n\nMoral universalism (also called moral objectivism) is the meta-ethical position that some system of ethics, or a universal ethic, applies universally, that is, for \"all similarly situated individuals\", regardless of culture, race, sex, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, or any other distinguishing feature. Moral universalism is opposed to moral nihilism and moral relativism. However, not all forms of moral universalism are absolutist, nor are they necessarily value monist; many forms of universalism, such as utilitarianism, are non-absolutist, and some forms, such as that of Isaiah Berlin, may be value pluralist.\n\nIn addition to the theories of moral realism, moral universalism includes other cognitivist moral theories, such as the subjectivist ideal observer theory and divine command theory, and also the non-cognitivist moral theory of universal prescriptivism.\n\nAccording to philosophy professor R. W. Hepburn: \"To move towards the objectivist pole is to argue that moral judgements can be rationally defensible, true or false, that there are rational procedural tests for identifying morally impermissible actions, or that moral values exist independently of the feeling-states of individuals at particular times.\"\n\nLinguist and political theorist Noam Chomsky states: \"if we adopt the principle of universality: if an action is right (or wrong) for others, it is right (or wrong) for us. Those who do not rise to the minimal moral level of applying to themselves the standards they apply to others—more stringent ones, in fact—plainly cannot be taken seriously when they speak of appropriateness of response; or of right and wrong, good and evil.\"\n\nThe United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights can be read as assuming a kind of moral universalism. The drafting committee of the Universal Declaration did assume, or at least aspired to, a \"universal\" approach to articulating international human rights. Although the Declaration has undeniably come to be accepted throughout the world as a cornerstone of the international system for the protection of human rights, a belief among some that the Universal Declaration does not adequately reflect certain important worldviews has given rise to more than one supplementary declaration, such as the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam and the Bangkok Declaration.\n\nGlobal environmental treaties may also assume and present a moral universalism. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is founded upon the \"common heritage of mankind\". Protecting this heritage is presented in the treaty as a shared moral duty requiring protective actions based on \"common but differentiated responsibilities\". This has been criticised as anthropocentric and state-centric but it does assert universal goals.\n\nIn his \"Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals\", Immanuel Kant attempts to derive a supreme principle of morality that binds all rational agents. Similarly, divine command theory presents a form of universalism, by way of the unconditional morality of God's commandments.\n\n"}
{"id": "18345264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18345264", "title": "Neural correlates of consciousness", "text": "Neural correlates of consciousness\n\nThe neural correlates of consciousness (NCC) constitute the minimal set of neuronal events and mechanisms sufficient for a specific conscious percept. Neuroscientists use empirical approaches to discover neural correlates of subjective phenomena. The set should be \"minimal\" because, under the assumption that the brain is sufficient to give rise to any given conscious experience, the question is which of its components is necessary to produce it.\n\nA science of consciousness must explain the exact relationship between subjective mental states and brain states, the nature of the relationship between the conscious mind and the electro-chemical interactions in the body (mind–body problem). Progress in neuropsychology and neurophilosophy has come from focusing on the body rather than the mind. In this context the neuronal correlates of consciousness may be viewed as its causes, and consciousness may be thought of as a state-dependent property of some undefined complex, adaptive, and highly interconnected biological system.\n\nDiscovering and characterizing neural correlates does not offer a theory of consciousness that can explain how particular systems experience anything at all, or how and why they are associated with consciousness, the so-called hard problem of consciousness, but understanding the NCC may be a step toward such a theory. Most neurobiologists assume that the variables giving rise to consciousness are to be found at the neuronal level, governed by classical physics, though a few scholars have proposed theories of quantum consciousness based on quantum mechanics.\n\nThere is great apparent redundancy and parallelism in neural networks so, while activity in one group of neurons may correlate with a percept in one case, a different population might mediate a related percept if the former population is lost or inactivated. It may be that every phenomenal, subjective state has a neural correlate. Where the NCC can be induced artificially the subject will experience the associated percept, while perturbing or inactivating the region of correlation for a specific percept will affect the percept or cause it to disappear, giving a cause-effect relationship from the neural region to the nature of the percept.\n\nWhat characterizes the NCC? What are the commonalities between the NCC for seeing and for hearing? Will the NCC involve all the pyramidal neurons in the cortex at any given point in time? Or only a subset of long-range projection cells in the frontal lobes that project to the sensory cortices in the back? Neurons that fire in a rhythmic manner? Neurons that fire in a synchronous manner? These are some of the proposals that have been advanced over the years.\n\nThe growing ability of neuroscientists to manipulate neurons using methods from molecular biology in combination with optical tools (e.g., Adamantidis et al. 2007) depends on the simultaneous development of appropriate behavioral assays and model organisms amenable to large-scale genomic analysis and manipulation. It is the combination of such fine-grained neuronal analysis in animals with ever more sensitive psychophysical and brain imaging techniques in humans, complemented by the development of a robust theoretical predictive framework, that will hopefully lead to a rational understanding of consciousness, one of the central mysteries of life.\n\nThere are two common but distinct dimensions of the term \"consciousness\", one involving \"arousal\" and \"states of consciousness\" and the other involving \"content of consciousness\" and \"conscious states\". To be conscious \"of\" anything the brain must be in a relatively high state of arousal (sometimes called \"vigilance\"), whether in wakefulness or REM sleep, vividly experienced in dreams although usually not remembered. Brain arousal level fluctuates in a circadian rhythm but may be influenced by lack of sleep, drugs and alcohol, physical exertion, etc. Arousal can be measured behaviorally by the signal amplitude that triggers some criterion reaction (for instance, the sound level necessary to evoke an eye movement or a head turn toward the sound source). Clinicians use scoring systems such as the Glasgow Coma Scale to assess the level of arousal in patients.\n\nHigh arousal states are associated with conscious states that have specific content, seeing, hearing, remembering, planning or fantasizing about something. Different levels or states of consciousness are associated with different kinds of conscious experiences. The \"awake\" state is quite different from the \"dreaming\" state (for instance, the latter has little or no self-reflection) and from the state of deep sleep. In all three cases the basic physiology of the brain is affected, as it also is in \"altered states of consciousness\", for instance after taking drugs or during meditation when conscious perception and insight may be enhanced compared to the normal waking state.\n\nClinicians talk about \"impaired states of consciousness\" as in \"the comatose state\", \"the persistent vegetative state\" (PVS), and \"the minimally conscious state\" (MCS). Here, \"state\" refers to different \"amounts\" of external/physical consciousness, from a total absence in coma, persistent vegetative state and general anesthesia, to a fluctuating and limited form of conscious sensation in a minimally conscious state such as sleep walking or during a complex partial epileptic seizure. The repertoire of conscious states or experiences accessible to a patient in a minimally conscious state is comparatively limited. In brain death there is no arousal, but it is unknown whether the subjectivity of experience has been interrupted, rather than its observable link with the organism.\n\nThe potential \"richness of conscious experience\" appears to increase from deep sleep to drowsiness to full wakefulness, as might be quantified using notions from complexity theory that incorporate both the dimensionality as well as the granularity of conscious experience to give an integrated-information-theoretical account of consciousness. As behavioral arousal increases so does the range and complexity of possible behavior. Yet in REM sleep there is a characteristic atonia, low motor arousal and the person is difficult to wake up, but there is still high metabolic and electric brain activity and vivid perception.\n\nMany nuclei with distinct chemical signatures in the thalamus, midbrain and pons must function for a subject to be in a sufficient state of brain arousal to experience anything at all. These nuclei therefore belong to the enabling factors for consciousness. Conversely it is likely that the specific content of any particular conscious sensation is mediated by particular neurons in cortex and their associated satellite structures, including the amygdala, thalamus, claustrum and the basal ganglia.\n\nThe possibility of precisely manipulating visual percepts in time and space has made vision a preferred modality in the quest for the NCC. Psychologists have perfected a number of techniques – masking, binocular rivalry, continuous flash suppression, motion induced blindness, change blindness, inattentional blindness – in which the seemingly simple and unambiguous relationship between a physical stimulus in the world and its associated percept in the privacy of the subject's mind is disrupted. In particular a stimulus can be perceptually suppressed for seconds or even minutes at a time: the image is projected into one of the observer's eyes but is invisible, not seen. In this manner the neural mechanisms that respond to the subjective percept rather than the physical stimulus can be isolated, permitting visual consciousness to be tracked in the brain. In a \"perceptual illusion\", the physical stimulus remains fixed while the percept fluctuates. The best known example is the \"Necker cube\" whose 12 lines can be perceived in one of two different ways in depth.\nA perceptual illusion that can be precisely controlled is \"binocular rivalry\". Here, a small image, e.g., a horizontal grating, is presented to the left eye, and another image, e.g., a vertical grating, is shown to the corresponding location in the right eye. In spite of the constant visual stimulus, observers consciously see the horizontal grating alternate every few seconds with the vertical one. The brain does not allow for the simultaneous perception of both images.\n\nLogothetis and colleagues recorded a variety of visual cortical areas in awake macaque monkeys performing a binocular rivalry task. Macaque monkeys can be trained to report whether they see the left or the right image. The distribution of the switching times and the way in which changing the contrast in one eye affects these leaves little doubt that monkeys and humans experience the same basic phenomenon. In the primary visual cortex (V1) only a small fraction of cells weakly modulated their response as a function of the percept of the monkey while most cells responded to one or the other retinal stimulus with little regard to what the animal perceived at the time. But in a high-level cortical area such as the inferior temporal cortex along the ventral stream almost all neurons responded only to the perceptually dominant stimulus, so that a \"face\" cell only fired when the animal indicated that it saw the face and not the pattern presented to the other eye. This implies that NCC involve neurons active in the inferior temporal cortex: it is likely that specific reciprocal actions of neurons in the inferior temporal and parts of the prefrontal cortex are necessary.\n\nA number of fMRI experiments that have exploited binocular rivalry and related illusions to identify the hemodynamic activity underlying visual consciousness in humans demonstrate quite conclusively that activity in the upper stages of the ventral pathway (e.g., the fusiform face area and the parahippocampal place area) as well as in early regions, including V1 and the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), follow the percept and not the retinal stimulus. Further, a number of fMRI and DTI experiments suggest V1 is necessary but not sufficient for visual consciousness.\n\nIn a related perceptual phenomenon, \"flash suppression\", the percept associated with an image projected into one eye is suppressed by flashing another image into the other eye while the original image remains. Its methodological advantage over binocular rivalry is that the timing of the perceptual transition is determined by an external trigger rather than by an internal event. The majority of cells in the inferior temporal cortex and the superior temporal sulcus of monkeys trained to report their percept during flash suppression follow the animal's percept: when the cell's preferred stimulus is perceived, the cell responds. If the picture is still present on the retina but is perceptually suppressed, the cell falls silent, even though primary visual cortex neurons fire. Single-neuron recordings in the medial temporal lobe of epilepsy patients during flash suppression likewise demonstrate abolishment of response when the preferred stimulus is present but perceptually masked.\n\nGiven the absence of any accepted criterion of the minimal neuronal correlates necessary for consciousness, the distinction between a persistently vegetative patient who shows regular sleep-wave transitions and may be able to move or smile, and a minimally conscious patient who can communicate (on occasion) in a meaningful manner (for instance, by differential eye movements) and who shows some signs of consciousness, is often difficult. In global anesthesia the patient should not experience psychological trauma but the level of arousal should be compatible with clinical exigencies.\nBlood-oxygen-level-dependent fMRI have demonstrated normal patterns of brain activity in a patient in a vegetative state following a severe traumatic brain injury when asked to imagine playing tennis or visiting rooms in his/her house. Differential brain imaging of patients with such global disturbances of consciousness (including akinetic mutism) reveal that dysfunction in a widespread cortical network including medial and lateral prefrontal and parietal associative areas is associated with a global loss of awareness. Impaired consciousness in epileptic seizures of the temporal lobe was likewise accompanied by a decrease in cerebral blood flow in frontal and parietal association cortex and an increase in midline structures such as the mediodorsal thalamus.\n\nRelatively local bilateral injuries to midline (paramedian) subcortical structures can also cause a complete loss of awareness. These structures therefore \"enable\" and control brain arousal (as determined by metabolic or electrical activity) and are necessary neural correlates. One such example is the heterogeneous collection of more than two dozen nuclei on each side of the upper brainstem (pons, midbrain and in the posterior hypothalamus), collectively referred to as the reticular activating system (RAS). Their axons project widely throughout the brain. These nuclei – three-dimensional collections of neurons with their own cyto-architecture and neurochemical identity – release distinct neuromodulators such as acetylcholine, noradrenaline/norepinephrine, serotonin, histamine and orexin/hypocretin to control the excitability of the thalamus and forebrain, mediating alternation between wakefulness and sleep as well as general level of behavioral and brain arousal. After such trauma, however, eventually the excitability of the thalamus and forebrain can recover and consciousness can return. Another enabling factor for consciousness are the five or more intralaminar nuclei (ILN) of the thalamus. These receive input from many brainstem nuclei and project strongly, directly to the basal ganglia and, in a more distributed manner, into layer I of much of the neocortex. Comparatively small (1 cm or less) bilateral lesions in the thalamic ILN completely knock out all awareness.\n\nMany actions in response to sensory inputs are rapid, transient, stereotyped, and unconscious. They could be thought of as cortical reflexes and are characterized by rapid and somewhat stereotyped responses that can take the form of rather complex automated behavior as seen, e.g., in complex partial epileptic seizures. These automated responses, sometimes called \"zombie behaviors\", could be contrasted by a slower, all-purpose conscious mode that deals more slowly with broader, less stereotyped aspects of the sensory inputs (or a reflection of these, as in imagery) and takes time to decide on appropriate thoughts and responses. Without such a consciousness mode, a vast number of different zombie modes would be required to react to unusual events.\n\nA feature that distinguishes humans from most animals is that we are not born with an extensive repertoire of behavioral programs that would enable us to survive on our own (\"physiological prematurity\"). To compensate for this, we have an unmatched ability to learn, i.e., to consciously acquire such programs by imitation or exploration. Once consciously acquired and sufficiently exercised, these programs can become automated to the extent that their execution happens beyond the realms of our awareness. Take, as an example, the incredible fine motor skills exerted in playing a Beethoven piano sonata or the sensorimotor coordination required to ride a motorcycle along a curvy mountain road. Such complex behaviors are possible only because a sufficient number of the subprograms involved can be executed with minimal or even suspended conscious control. In fact, the conscious system may actually interfere somewhat with these automated programs.\n\nFrom an evolutionary standpoint it clearly makes sense to have both automated behavioral programs that can be executed rapidly in a stereotyped and automated manner, and a slightly slower system that allows time for thinking and planning more complex behavior. This latter aspect may be one of the principal functions of consciousness. Other philosophers, however, have suggested that consciousness would not be necessary for any functional advantage in evolutionary processes. No one has given a causal explanation, they argue, of why it would not be possible for a functionally equivalent non-conscious organism (i.e., a philosophical zombie) to achieve the very same survival advantages as a conscious organism. If evolutionary processes are blind to the difference between function \"F\" being performed by conscious organism \"O\" and non-conscious organism \"O*\", it is unclear what adaptive advantage consciousness could provide. As a result, an exaptive explanation of consciousness has gained favor with some theorists that posit consciousness did not evolve as an adaptation but was an exaptation arising as a consequence of other developments such as increases in brain size or cortical rearrangement. Consciousness in this sense has been compared to the blind spot in the retina where it is not an adaption of the retina, but instead just a by-product of the way the retinal axons were wired. Several scholars including Pinker, Chomsky, Edelman, and Luria have indicated the importance of the emergence of human language as an important regulative mechanism of learning and memory in the context of the development of higher-order consciousness.\n\nIt seems possible that visual zombie modes in the cortex mainly use the dorsal stream in the parietal region. However, parietal activity can affect consciousness by producing attentional effects on the ventral stream, at least under some circumstances. The conscious mode for vision depends largely on the early visual areas (beyond V1) and especially on the ventral stream.\n\nSeemingly complex visual processing (such as detecting animals in natural, cluttered scenes) can be accomplished by the human cortex within 130–150 ms, far too brief for eye movements and conscious perception to occur. Furthermore, reflexes such as the oculovestibular reflex take place at even more rapid time-scales. It is quite plausible that such behaviors are mediated by a purely feed-forward moving wave of spiking activity that passes from the retina through V1, into V4, IT and prefrontal cortex, until it affects motorneurons in the spinal cord that control the finger press (as in a typical laboratory experiment). The hypothesis that the basic processing of information is feedforward is supported most directly by the short times (approx. 100 ms) required for a selective response to appear in IT cells.\n\nConversely, conscious perception is believed to require more sustained, reverberatory neural activity, most likely via global feedback from frontal regions of neocortex back to sensory cortical areas that builds up over time until it exceeds a critical threshold. At this point, the sustained neural activity rapidly propagates to parietal, prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortical regions, thalamus, claustrum and related structures that support short-term memory, multi-modality integration, planning, speech, and other processes intimately related to consciousness. Competition prevents more than one or a very small number of percepts to be simultaneously and actively represented. This is the core hypothesis of the global workspace theory of consciousness.\n\nIn brief, while rapid but transient neural activity in the thalamo-cortical system can mediate complex behavior without conscious sensation, it is surmised that consciousness requires sustained but well-organized neural activity dependent on long-range cortico-cortical feedback.\n\n"}
{"id": "10125582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10125582", "title": "Nuclear peace", "text": "Nuclear peace\n\nNuclear peace is a theory of international relations that argues that under some circumstances nuclear weapons can induce stability and decrease the chances of crisis escalation. In particular, nuclear weapons are said to have induced stability during the Cold War, when both the US and the USSR possessed mutual second strike retaliation capability, eliminating the possibility of nuclear victory for either side. Proponents of nuclear peace argue that controlled nuclear proliferation may be beneficial for inducing stability. Critics of nuclear peace argue that nuclear proliferation not only increases the chance of interstate nuclear conflict, but increases the chances of nuclear material falling into the hands of violent non-state groups who are free from the threat of nuclear retaliation.\n\nThe major debate on this issue has been between Kenneth Waltz, the founder of neorealist theory in international relations, and Scott Sagan, a leading proponent of organizational theories in international politics. Waltz generally argues that \"more may be better,\" contending that new nuclear states will use their acquired nuclear capabilities to deter threats and preserve peace. Sagan argues that \"more will be worse\", since new nuclear states often lack adequate organizational controls over their new weapons, which makes for a high risk of either deliberate or accidental nuclear war, or theft of nuclear material by terrorists to perpetrate nuclear terrorism.\n\nA nuclear peace results when the costs of war are unacceptably high for both sides. In a two-sided conflict where both sides have mutual second strike capability, defense becomes impossible so it is the very prospect of fighting the war, rather than the possibility of losing it, that induces restraint.\n\nIn a condition of mutually assured destruction, there are civilian \"hostages\" on both sides, which facilitates cooperation by acting as an informal mechanism of contract enforcement between states. There are economic equivalents of such informal mechanisms used to effect credible commitment; for example, corporations use \"hostages\" (in the form of initial setup costs that act as collateral) to deter subsidiaries and franchisees from cheating.\n\nNuclear weapons may also lessen a state's reliance on allies for security, thus preventing allies from dragging each other into wars (a phenomenon known as chain ganging, frequently said to be a major cause of World War I).\n\nSince the death of civilians is an essential part of mutually assured destruction, one normative consequence of nuclear weapons is that war loses its historical function as a symbol of glory and measure of national strength.\n\nAs a method of preventing a destabilizing arms race, the concept of minimal deterrence represents one way of solving the security dilemma and avoiding an arms race.\n\nA study published in the \"Journal of Conflict Resolution\" in 2009 quantitatively evaluated the nuclear peace hypothesis and found support for the existence of the stability-instability paradox. The study determined that while nuclear weapons promote strategic stability and prevent largescale wars, they simultaneously allow for more lower intensity conflicts. When a nuclear monopoly exists between two states, and one state has nuclear weapons and its opponent does not, there is a greater chance of war. In contrast, when there is mutual nuclear weapon ownership with both states possessing nuclear weapons, the odds of war drop precipitously.\n\nCritics argue that war can occur even under conditions of mutually assured destruction:\n\nActors are not always rational, as bureaucratic procedure and internal intrigue may cause subrational outcomes. Related to and reinforcing that point is that there is always an element of uncertainty. One cannot always control emotions, subordinates, and equipment, especially when one has limited information and is faced with high stakes and fast timetables. There are unintended consequences, unwanted escalation, irrationality, misperception, and the security dilemma.\n\nAnother reason is that deterrence has an inherent instability. As Kenneth Boulding said: \"If deterrence were really stable… it would cease to deter.\" If decisionmakers were perfectly rational, they would never order the largescale use of nuclear weapons, and the credibility of the nuclear threat would be low.\n\nHowever, that apparent perfect rationality criticism is countered and so not inconsistent with current deterrence policy. In \"Essentials of Post-Cold War Deterrence\", the authors detail an explicit advocation of ambiguity regarding \"what is permitted\" for other nations and its endorsement of \"irrationality\" or, more precisely, the perception thereof as an important tool in deterrence and foreign policy. The document claims that the capacity of the United States, in exercising deterrence, would be hurt by portraying US leaders as fully rational and cool-headed: \n\nSome commentators critical of the concept of nuclear peace further make the argument that nonstate actors and rogue states could supply nuclear weapons to terrorist organizations and thereby undermine conventional deterrence and therefore nuclear peace, especially with the existence of international terrorist networks seeking access to nuclear sources.\n\nHowever Robert Gallucci, president of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, argues that although traditional deterrence is not an effective approach toward terrorist groups bent on causing a nuclear catastrophe, \"the United States should instead consider a policy of expanded deterrence, which focuses not solely on the would-be nuclear terrorists but on those states that may deliberately transfer or inadvertently lead nuclear weapons and materials to them. By threatening retaliation against those states, the United States may be able to deter that which it cannot physically prevent.\"\n\nGraham Allison makes a similar case and argues that the key to expanded deterrence is coming up with ways of tracing nuclear material to the country that forged the fissile material: \"After a nuclear bomb detonates, nuclear forensic cops would collect debris samples and send them to a laboratory for radiological analysis. By identifying unique attributes of the fissile material, including its impurities and contaminants, one could trace the path back to its origin.\" The process is analogous to identifying a criminal by fingerprints: \"The goal would be twofold: first, to deter leaders of nuclear states from selling weapons to terrorists by holding them accountable for any use of their own weapons; second, to give leaders every incentive to tightly secure their nuclear weapons and materials.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56745427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56745427", "title": "Pandiyan Ukkira Peruvaludhi", "text": "Pandiyan Ukkira Peruvaludhi\n\nPandiyan Ukkira Peruvaludhi (Tamil: பாண்டியன் உக்கிரப் பெருவழுதியார்) was a king and poet belonging to the Sangam period, to whom 3 verses of the Sangam literature have been attributed, including verse 4 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\nUkkira Peruvaludhi was a ruler of the Pandyan dynasty and a patron of the late Sangam. He defeated Vengaimarbhan, the king of Gaanapereyil or Kaalaiyar Koil, and hence came to be known as \"Pandiyan Gaanapereyil Thandha Ukkira Peruvaludhi\". He was the ally of the Chera King Mavenko and Rajasooyam Vetta Perunar Killi. The Sangam work of Agananuru is believed to have compiled in his court.\n\nUkkira Peruvaludhi has written 3 verses, including 1 in Natrinai (verse 98), 1 in Agananuru (verse 26), and 1 in Tiruvalluva Maalai (verse 4).\n\n"}
{"id": "2065248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2065248", "title": "Perdurantism", "text": "Perdurantism\n\nPerdurantism or perdurance theory is a philosophical theory of persistence and identity. The perdurantist view is that an individual has distinct temporal parts throughout its existence. Perdurantism is usually presented as the antipode to endurantism, the view that an individual is wholly present at every moment of its existence.\n\nThe use of \"endure\" and \"perdure\" to distinguish two ways in which an object can be thought to persist can be traced to David Kellogg Lewis (1986). However, contemporary debate has demonstrated the difficulties in defining perdurantism (and also endurantism). For instance, the work of Ted Sider (2001) has suggested that even enduring objects can have temporal parts, and it is more accurate to define perdurantism as being the claim that objects have a temporal part at every instant that they exist. Currently there is no universally acknowledged definition of perdurantism (see also McKinnon (2002) and Merricks (1999)). Others argue that this problem is avoided by creating time as a continuous function, rather than a discrete one.\n\nPerdurantism is also referred to as \"four-dimensionalism\" (by Ted Sider, in particular) but perdurantism also applies if one believes there are temporal but non-spatial abstract entities (like immaterial souls or universals of the sort accepted by David Malet Armstrong).\n\nPerdurantists break into two distinct sub-groups: worm theorists and stage theorists.\n\nWorm theorists believe that a persisting object is composed of the various temporal parts that it has. It can be said that objects that persist are extended through the time dimension of the block universe much as physical objects are extended in space. Thus, they believe that all persisting objects are four-dimensional \"worms\" that stretch across space-time, and that you are mistaken in believing that chairs, mountains, and people are simply three-dimensional.\n\nStage theorists take discussion of persisting objects to be talk of a particular temporal part, or stage, of an object at any given time. So, in a manner of speaking, a subject only exists for an instantaneous period of time. However, there are other temporal parts at other times which that subject is related to in a certain way (Sider talks of \"modal counterpart relations\", whilst Hawley talks of \"non-Humean relations\") such that when someone says that they were a child, or that they will be an elderly person, these things are true, because they bear a special \"identity-like\" relation to a temporal part that is a child (that exists in the past) or a temporal part that is an elderly person (that exists in the future). Stage theorists are sometimes called \"exdurantists\".\n\nIt has been argued that stage theory, unlike the worm theory, should be favored as it accurately accounts for the contents of our experience. The latter requires that we currently experience more than a single moment of our lives while we actually find ourselves experiencing only one instant of time, in line with the stage view. However, on the other hand, as Stuchlik (2003) states, the stage theory will not work under the possibility of gunky time, which states that for every interval of time, there is a sub-interval, and according to Zimmerman (1996), there have been many self-professed perdurantists who believe that time is gunky or contains no instants. Some perdurantists think the idea of gunk means there are no instants, since they define these as intervals of time with no subintervals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5902124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5902124", "title": "Pirate code", "text": "Pirate code\n\nA pirate code, pirate articles or articles of agreement were a code of conduct for governing pirates. A group of sailors, on turning pirate, would draw up their own code or articles, which provided rules for discipline, division of stolen goods, and compensation for injured pirates.\n\nBuccaneers, like other ships of the time, operated under ship's articles that, \"inter alia\", governed conduct of the crew. These \"articles of agreement\" became authority independent of any nation, and were variously called the Chasse-Partie, Charter Party, Custom of the Coast, or Jamaica Discipline. In retrospect, these became known as the Pirate's Code. Pirate articles varied from one captain to another, and sometimes even from one voyage to another, but they were generally alike in including provisions for discipline, specifications for each crewmate's share of treasure, and compensation for the injured.\n\nEach crew member was asked to sign or make his mark on the articles, then swear an oath of allegiance or honour. The oath was sometimes taken on a Bible, but John Phillips' men, lacking a Bible, swore on an axe. Legend suggests that other pirates swore on crossed pistols, swords, or on a human skull, or astride a cannon. This act formally inducted the signer into the pirate crew, generally entitling him to vote for officers and on other \"affairs of moment\", to bear arms, and to his share of the plunder. The articles having been signed, they were then posted in a prominent place, often the door to the captain's cabin.\n\nAfter a piratical cruise began, new recruits from captured ships would sometimes sign the articles, in some cases voluntarily, in other cases under threat of torture or death. Valuable sea artisans, such as carpenters and navigators, were especially likely to be forced to sign articles under duress, and would rarely be released regardless of their decision to sign or not. In some cases, even willing recruits would ask the pirates to pretend to force them to sign, so that they could plead they were forced should they ever be captured by the law. Generally, men who had not signed the articles had a much better chance of acquittal at trial if captured by the law.\n\nPirate articles are closely related to, and were derived from, ship's articles of the time, especially those of privateers, which similarly provided for discipline and regulated distribution of booty (though usually far less equally than with pirate articles). Merchant articles and privateering articles can be traced back to Europe in the Middle Ages when there was a system of \"joint hands\" agreements between merchants, owners and seamen to share profits.\n\nNine complete or nearly complete sets of piratical articles have survived, chiefly from Charles Johnson's \"A General History of the Pyrates\", first published in 1724, and from records kept by Admiralty Court proceedings at the trials of pirates. A partial code from Henry Morgan is preserved in Alexandre Exquemelin's 1678 book \"The Buccaneers of America\". Many other pirates are known to have had articles; the late-17th century Articles of George Cusack and Nicholas Clough have survived intact. Few pirate articles have survived; pirates on the verge of capture or surrender usually burned their articles or threw them overboard to prevent the papers being used against them at trial.\n\nCaptain John Phillips, captain of the \"Revenge\", also set a code for his men in 1724:\nThe articles listed below are attributed by the \"Boston News-Letter\" to Captain Edward Low. The first eight of these articles are essentially identical to those attributed to pirate captain George Lowther by Charles Johnson. Since Lowther and Low are known to have sailed together from about New Year's to May 28, 1722, it is probable that both reports are correct and that Low and Lowther shared the same articles, with Low's two extra articles being an \"ordinance\", or amendment, adopted after the two crews separated.\nA set of articles written in John Gow's own hand was found aboard his ship, the \"Revenge\" (née \"George\"), in 1729. Article IV's reference to no going ashore \"till the ship is off the ground\" suggests that the \"Revenge\" was already grounded when the articles were written, only days before Gow and his men were captured. The code states as follows:\nExquemelin writes in general terms about the articles of late 17th century Caribbean buccaneers. Although he does not attribute these articles to any specific buccaneer captain, Exquemelin almost certainly sailed with Henry Morgan as a physician, and thus his account likely reflects Morgan's articles more accurately than any other privateer or buccaneer of the time.\n\nExquemelin writes that the buccaneers \"agree on certain articles, which are put in writing, by way of bond or obligation, which every one is bound to observe, and all of them, or the chief, set their hands to it.\" Although Exquemelin does not number the articles, the following approximately reflects his description of the buccaneers' laws:\n\n"}
{"id": "39793846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39793846", "title": "Relationship anarchy", "text": "Relationship anarchy\n\nRelationship anarchy (sometimes abbreviated RA) is the belief that relationships should not be bound by rules aside from what the people involved mutually agree upon. If a relationship anarchist has multiple intimate partners, it might be considered as a form of polyamory, but distinguishes itself by postulating that there need not be a formal distinction between sexual, romantic, or platonic relationships.\n\nRelationship anarchists look at each relationship (romantic, platonic or otherwise) individually, as opposed to categorizing them according to societal norms such as 'just friends', 'in a relationship', or 'in an open relationship'. \n\nThe term \"relationship anarchy\" was coined by Andie Nordgren, and is the topic of Swedish bachelor theses by Jacob Strandell and Ida Midnattssol. It was discussed in workshops at OpenCon 2010, and by Senior Open University lecturer Dr Meg-John Barker in a presentation in 2013.\n\nThe relationship anarchy movement has its roots in the free love movement of the 20th century, which in some forms rejected the idea of monogamous marriage, seeing it as a form of social and financial bondage.\n\n"}
{"id": "4050095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4050095", "title": "Robert Stalnaker", "text": "Robert Stalnaker\n\nRobert C. Stalnaker (born 1940) is an American philosopher, who is Laurence S. Rockefeller Professor of Philosophy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy.\n\nHe earned his BA from Wesleyan University and earned his Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1965. His thesis advisor was Stuart Hampshire, though he was strongly influenced by another faculty member, Carl Hempel. Stalnaker taught briefly at Yale University and the University of Illinois, and then for many years at the Sage School of Philosophy at Cornell University before joining the MIT faculty in 1988. He retired from MIT in 2016. His many students include Jason Stanley, Zoltan Szabo and Delia Graff Fara.\n\nIn 2007, Stalnaker delivered the John Locke Lectures at Oxford University on the topic of \"Our Knowledge of the Internal World.\" And, in May 2017, he delivered the Casalegno Lectures at the University of Milan on \"Counterfactuals and Practical Reason.\"\n\nHis work concerns, among other things, the philosophical foundations of semantics, pragmatics, philosophical logic, decision theory, game theory, the theory of conditionals, epistemology, and the philosophy of mind. But all of these interests are in the service of addressing the problem of intentionality, \"what it is to represent the world in both speech and thought\". In his work, he seeks to provide a naturalistic account of intentionality, characterizing representation in terms of causal and modal notions.\n\nAlong with Saul Kripke, David Lewis, and Alvin Plantinga, Stalnaker has been one of the most influential theorists exploring philosophical aspects of possible world semantics. According to his view of possible worlds, they are ways this world could have been, which in turn are maximal properties that this world could have had. This view distinguishes him from the influential modal realist Lewis, who argued that possible worlds are concrete entities just like this world.\n\nIn addition to his contributions to the metaphysics of possible worlds, he has used the apparatus of possible worlds semantics to explore many issues in the semantics of natural language, including counterfactual and indicative conditionals, and presupposition. His view of assertion as narrowing the conversational common ground to exclude situations in which the asserted content is false was a major impetus in recent developments in semantics and pragmatics, in particular, the so-called \"dynamic\" turn.\n\nStalnaker is the author of four books and dozens of articles in major philosophical journals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1077947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1077947", "title": "Roberto Ardigò", "text": "Roberto Ardigò\n\nRoberto Felice Ardigò (28 January 1828 – 15 September 1920) was an Italian philosopher. He was an influential leader of Italian positivism and a former Roman Catholic priest.\n\nArdigò was born in Casteldidone, in what is now the province of Cremona, in Lombardy, and trained for the priesthood. He resigned from the Church in 1871 after abandoning theology and faith in 1869. He was appointed as a professor of theology at the University of Padua in 1881, at a time when a reaction to idealism had taken place in philosophical circles.\n\nInspired by Auguste Comte, Ardigò differed from Comte in that he considered thought more important than matter and insisted on psychological disquisition. He believed thought was dominant in every action and the result of every action, and that it disappears only in a state of general corruption.\n\nHe died by suicide at Mantua in 1920, at the age of 92.\n\n"}
{"id": "23084683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23084683", "title": "Sheldon Krimsky", "text": "Sheldon Krimsky\n\nSheldon Krimsky is Professor of Urban and Environmental Policy and Planning at Tufts University, and adjunct professor in the Department of Family Medicine and Community Health at Tufts University School of Medicine. He is a fellow of the Hastings Center, an independent bioethics research institution.\n\nKrimsky received his bachelor's and master's degrees in physics from Brooklyn College and Purdue University respectively, and a masters and doctorate in philosophy at Boston University.\n\nIn his 2003 book \"Science in the Private Interest\", Krimsky points out that conflicts of interests are perceived and regulated very differently in public affairs and in science:\nThe prophylactic measures that are taken to prevent conflict of interest in public affairs are considered irrelevant in science precisely because scientists view themselves as participating in a higher calling than that of public officials—namely, the pursuit of objective knowledge. While senior public officials (elected or appointed) are prohibited from managing their portfolios during their tenure in office, scientists with patents and equity in companies that fund their research are at most simply asked to disclose their interests.\nKrimsky raises the concern that conflicts of interest may compromise the scientific norm of \"disinterestedness\", which \"requires that scientists apply the methods, perform the analysis, and execute the interpretation of results without considerations of personal gain, ideology, or fidelity to any cause other than the pursuit of truth.\" He claims that blurred boundaries between public interest science and pursuit of private gain have severely compromised the integrity of university science:The evolving academic universe is no longer as nurturing an environment for public-interest science as it once was. To a large degree, universities have been taken over by money managers and academic entrepreneurs who are looking for financially lucrative research.\n\nKrimsky writes that the profit motive has corrupted many scientists in biomedical research. He also proposes that the relationships between corporations, universities, and government agencies have resulted in biased science that puts human health and environment at risk. He has written and commented on genetically modified foods, water fluoridation, environmental health, global warming, and other controversial topics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13690160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13690160", "title": "Society for Developmental Biology", "text": "Society for Developmental Biology\n\nThe Society for Developmental Biology (SDB) is a professional society for basic scientists and physicians around the world whose research is focused on the study of the developmental biology and embryology.\n\nThe Society for Developmental Biology (SDB) was founded in 1939 to promote the field of developmental biology and to advance the understanding of developmental biology at all levels. SDB is a non-profit professional society dedicated to advancement of the field of developmental biology. Over recent decades, the SDB has grown to nearly 2000 members, and has evolved to provide an international forum for research, education and career development in developmental biology.\n\nThe stated mission of the society is to:\n\nThe Society is associated with the monthly peer reviewed journal, \"Developmental Biology\".\n\nThe Society for Developmental Biology inaugurated the Edwin Grant Conklin Medal in 1995 to honor the biologist Edwin Conklin.\n\nAn annual Lifetime Achievement Award was begun in 2000. \n\nThe Society holds an annual meeting that is attended by scientists from around the world. The 68th annual meeting in 2009 will be held in San Francisco, CA. In addition to the annual meetings, specific regions around the U.S. hold regional meetings.\n\nThe first symposium on Development and Growth was sponsored by the editors of Growth, and it was held in August 1939, at North Truro. Subsequent meetings have been held in a variety of cities throughout the world. A selection of recent meetings are summarized in the table. More information about future and past annual meetings are posted on the Society's official website .\n"}
{"id": "501282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501282", "title": "Soham (Sanskrit)", "text": "Soham (Sanskrit)\n\nSoham or Sohum ( \"\") is a Hindu mantra, meaning \"I am He/That\" in Sanskrit.\n\nIn Vedic philosophy it means identifying oneself with the universe or ultimate reality.\n\nThe mantra is also inverted from ' (the sandhi of ') to '. The combination of ' has also been interpreted as \"I myself am the Swan\", where the swan symbolizes the Atman.\n\nAn etymology of ' \"swan, goose\" as from ' \"I am that\" is found in the 14th century commentary on the Vedas by Sayana (14th century).\n\nThe term ' is related to , and the phrase translates to \"I that very person\", according to Monier-Williams. Interpreted as a nominal sentence, it can also be read as \"I am he\" or \"It/He is I\". The term is found in Vedic literature, and is a phrase that identifies \"oneself with the universe or ultimate reality\".\n\nThis phrase is found in Principal Upanishads such as the Isha Upanishad (verse 16), which ends:\n\nSoham, or \"I am He\", is very common in ancient and medieval literature. Some examples include:\n\nUpanishads\n\n\nTantras\n\n\nStotras\n\n\nAdi Shankara's \"Vakya Vritti\" subsequent works in the Nath tradition foundational for Hatha yoga.\n\nas well as the classical yoga treatises \"Gheranda Samhita\" and \"Shiva Samhita\" all make mention of \"soham\" and \"hamsa\" describing its significance and when teaching uniformly teaches So on inhalation and ham on exhalation.\n\nThis traditional practice in its several forms and its background is described in numerous other books.\n\nSwami Muktananda - although teaching the traditional So on inhalation and ham on exhalation as a letter from 1968 to Franklin Jones reveals - later published a book teaching Ham on inhalation and sa on exhalation. This practice is described in several later books all referring to Muktananda.\n\nThe teaching of Ham on inhalation and sa on exhalation is allegedly alluded to in a text of Kaśmir Śaivism, the \"Vijnana Bhairava\":\n\nHowever, this verse 155a is not found in the \"Vijnana Bhairava\" first published in 1918 in the Kashmir Series of Text and Studies but is quoted from a commentary by the Abhinavagupta disciple Kṣemarāja in his \"Shiva Sutra Vimarshini\" (commentary on the Shiva Sutras) in later editions of \"Vijnana Bhairava\".\n\nWhen used for meditation, \"Sohum\" acts as a natural mantra to control one's breathing pattern, to help achieve deep breath, and to gain concentration.\n\n\nSoham is also considered a mantra in Tantrism and Kriya Yoga, known also as \"Ajapa mantra\", \"Ajapa Gayatri\", \"Hamsa Gayatri\", \"Hamsa mantra\", \"prana mantra\", \"Shri Paraprasada mantra\", \"paramatma-mantra\", and as such used notably on its own, in the meditation practice ajapa japa and in the kriya practice shabda sanchalana.\n\n"}
{"id": "57490775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57490775", "title": "The Ashtray (Or the Man Who Denied Reality)", "text": "The Ashtray (Or the Man Who Denied Reality)\n\nThe Ashtray (Or the Man Who Denied Reality) is a book by Errol Morris in which he criticizes the philosophy of Thomas Kuhn. In the book, Morris argues that Kuhn was a relativist and a philosophical idealist, contrasting his interpretation of Kuhn's views with his own epistemology, drawing on Hilary Putnam and Saul Kripke, which he describes as \"investigative realism\", based on the belief that there is an objective reality whilst rejecting naïve realism. Morris accepts that investigation of truth involves considerable effort, with no guarantee of reaching the absolute truth, and that knowledge can be attained \"through reason, through observation, through investigation, through thought, through science\".\n\nIn a piece for the Los Angeles Review of Books, Philip Kitcher compared Morris' critique to Samuel Johnson's appeal to the stone regarding George Berkeley's belief in subjective idealism, stating that \"Morris has no interest in considering what Kuhn might have had in mind\", and rejecting his characterisation of Kuhn as a relativist and an irrealist.\n\nIn 1972, Morris met with Kuhn at Princeton University's Institute for Advanced Study, where Morris was a graduate student and Kuhn was his academic adviser, to discuss a paper Morris had written. The conversation grew increasingly heated as they disagreed regarding some fundamental ideas - specifically regarding James Clerk Maxwell's theory of displacement current, and the concept of incommensurability - and eventually Kuhn threw a cut glass ashtray full of cigarette butts. Following the incident Morris left Princeton. Morris uses the ashtray as a metaphor for the material reality that Morris believes Kuhn denied, as well what Morris views as Kuhn's intolerance of dissent from his theories.\n\n"}
{"id": "36358922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36358922", "title": "The Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology", "text": "The Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology\n\nThe Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology: An Introduction to Phenomenological Philosophy () is an unfinished 1936 book by the German philosopher Edmund Husserl, in which the author attempts to provide a historical and causal account of human consciousness. The work is seen as the culmination of Husserl's thought.\n\nHusserl purports to show, \"by way of a teleological-historical reflection on the origins of our critical scientific and philosophical situation, the inescapable necessity of a transcendental-phenomenological reorientation of philosophy\". He attempts to provide a historical and causal account of the origins of consciousness, something excluded or \"bracketed\" in his earlier works. Husserl, now concerned not so much with particular past events as with the \"eidos\" of history, the essential historicity of consciousness and its burden of preoccupations derived from the traditions of its social milieu, casts doubt on his own attempt to found a rigorous science free of all preconceptions. In the third part of the book, he develops the concept of the \"life-world\" (\"Lebenswelt\") the intersubjective world of natural, pre-theoretical experience and activity, which in his view was neglected by philosophers such as Immanuel Kant in favor of the world of theoretical science. The \"theoretical attitude\", exemplified for Husserl by Galileo Galilei, arose historically, in ancient Greece, against the background of the life-world, which essentially persists even after the development of the theoretical spirit.\n\n\"The Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology\" has been seen as the culmination of Husserl's thought. Michael Inwood notes that, though Husserl's account of the life-world, its essential priority to theory and theory's emergence from it, owes something to the eideitic method and to \"epochē\" (describing the essential structures of the life-world involves suspending scientific presuppositions and our practical engagement with the life-world), some philosophers, including Maurice Merleau-Ponty, considered \"The Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology\" a significant departure from Husserl's earlier work. He believes that unlike the books that Husserl wrote earlier in his career, which were avowedly similar to the \"Meditations on First Philosophy\" (1641) of René Descartes and unavowedly similar to Johann Gottlieb Fichte's \"Foundations of the Science of Knowledge\" (1794), \"The Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology\" is close in spirit to Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\" (1807).\n\nOthers have argued (D. Carr 1970), however, that the pressure set onto his project of pure phenomenology by the rise of existentialist phenomenology and equally socio-cultural developments of Germany in the early thirties changed Husserl's priorities and forced him to try a new approach to reach his audience. In this respect, \"The Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology\" is not the culmination of his phenomenological project per se, but moreover a book of phenomenological philosophy, contrasted with phenomenology as a science. For instance, in 1938, Husserl's \"Experience and Judgment\" was published, a book dealing much more explicitly with themes that concerned Husserl in his earlier periods, most notably the task of a transcendental phenomenological logic. As a consequence of this, it is not at all undisputed whether themes and methodology of \"The Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology\" contradicts or constitutes a departure from Husserl's earlier views on phenomenology.\n\nSome researches utilized Husserl's Crisis as a starting point in order to show how other disciplines, e.g. mainstream economics, shared the crisis of modern sciences. In this respect, mainstream economics is a special case, since economic theory, taking physics as an ideal to follow and mimic, somehow inherited the methodological problems, the attitudes and the aspirations of natural sciences. In Husserl’s view, the crisis of modern sciences was caused by their efforts to mathematize our life-world. It can be argued, citing the classical texts, that neoclassical economics did not try to apply this aspectual misinterpretation. Although its methodology became similar to Galileo’s physics and shared the faith in mechanical philosophy, it should be realized that Neoclassicals did not substitute the abstract world to be scientifically investigated for directly experienced reality. According to these texts, early Neoclassicals pursued their studies deliberately assuming abstract environment and elements differing from reality. However, under the evolution of mainstream theory, its relation to reality underwent a peculiar rearrangement in which the total and direct merging of directly experienced reality and mathematical models into each other emerged only as a relatively late development, implemented by new classical macroeconomics, but the imperative of it was present all along. This was the way, as it is argued, how Husserlian scientific crisis emerged in economics.\n\n"}
{"id": "1081291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1081291", "title": "The Tao of Physics", "text": "The Tao of Physics\n\nThe Tao of Physics: An Exploration of the Parallels Between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism is a 1975 book by physicist Fritjof Capra. It was a bestseller in the United States and has been published in 43 editions in 23 languages. The fourth edition in English was published in 2000.\n\nThe following excerpt from \"The Tao of Physics\" summarizes Capra's motivation for writing this book\n\n“Science does not need mysticism and mysticism does not need science. But man needs both.”\n\nAccording to the preface of the first edition, reprinted in subsequent editions, Capra struggled to reconcile theoretical physics and Eastern mysticism and was at first \"helped on my way by 'power plants'\" or psychedelics, with the first experience \"so overwhelming that I burst into tears, at the same time, not unlike Castaneda, pouring out my impressions to a piece of paper\". (p. 12, 4th ed.)\n\nCapra later discussed his ideas with Werner Heisenberg in 1972, as he mentioned in the following interview excerpt:\n\nI had several discussions with Heisenberg. I lived in England then [circa 1972], and I visited him several times in Munich and showed him the whole manuscript chapter by chapter. He was very interested and very open, and he told me something that I think is not known publicly because he never published it. He said that he was well aware of these parallels. While he was working on quantum theory he went to India to lecture and was a guest of Tagore. He talked a lot with Tagore about Indian philosophy. Heisenberg told me that these talks had helped him a lot with his work in physics, because they showed him that all these new ideas in quantum physics were in fact not all that crazy. He realized there was, in fact, a whole culture that subscribed to very similar ideas. Heisenberg said that this was a great help for him. Niels Bohr had a similar experience when he went to China.\n\nAs a result of those influences, Bohr adopted the yin yang symbol as part of his family coat of arms when he was knighted in 1947.\n\n\"The Tao of Physics\" was followed by other books of the same genre like \"The Hidden Connection\", \"The Turning Point\" and \"The Web of Life\" in which Capra extended the argument of how Eastern mysticism and scientific findings of today relate, and how Eastern mysticism might also have answers to some of the biggest scientific challenges of today.\n\nThe book was a best seller in the United States. However, it is not without its critics. It received a positive review from \"New York\" magazine:\nA brilliant best-seller... Lucidly analyzes the tenets of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Taoism to show their striking parallels with the latest discoveries in cyclotrons.\n\nVictor N. Mansfield, a professor of physics and astronomy at Colgate University who wrote many papers and books of his own connecting physics to Buddhism and also to Jungian psychology, complimented \"The Tao of Physics\" in \"Physics Today\":\n\"Fritjof Capra, in \"The Tao of Physics\", seeks ... an integration of the mathematical world view of modern physics and the mystical visions of Buddha and Krishna. Where others have failed miserably in trying to unite these seemingly different world views, Capra, a high-energy theorist, has succeeded admirably. I strongly recommend the book to both layman and scientist.\"\n\nJeremy Bernstein, a professor of physics at the Stevens Institute of Technology, chastised \"The Tao of Physics\":\n\nAt the heart of the matter is Mr. Capra's methodology – his use of what seem to me to be accidental similarities of language as if these were somehow evidence of deeply rooted connections. Thus I agree with Capra when he writes, \"Science does not need mysticism and mysticism does not need science but man needs both.\" What no one needs, in my opinion, is this superficial and profoundly misleading book.\n\nLeon M. Lederman, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist and current Director Emeritus of Fermilab, criticized both \"The Tao of Physics\" and Gary Zukav's \"The Dancing Wu Li Masters\" in his 1993 book \"\"\n\nStarting with reasonable descriptions of quantum physics, he constructs elaborate extensions, totally bereft of the understanding of how carefully experiment and theory are woven together and how much blood, sweat, and tears go into each painful advance.\n\nPhilosopher of science Eric Scerri criticizes both Capra and Zukav and similar books.\n\nPeter Woit, a mathematical physicist at Columbia University, criticized Capra for continuing to build his case for physics-mysticism parallels on the bootstrap model of strong-force interactions, long after the Standard Model had become thoroughly accepted by physicists as a better model:\n\n\"The Tao of Physics\" was completed in December 1974, and the implications of the November Revolution one month earlier that led to the dramatic confirmations of the standard-model quantum field theory clearly had not sunk in for Capra (like many others at that time). What is harder to understand is that the book has now gone through several editions, and in each of them Capra has left intact the now out-of-date physics, including new forewords and afterwords that with a straight face deny what has happened. The foreword to the second edition of 1983 claims, \"It has been very gratifying for me that none of these recent developments has invalidated anything I wrote seven years ago. In fact, most of them were anticipated in the original edition,\" a statement far from any relation to the reality that in 1983 the standard model was nearly universally accepted in the physics community, and the bootstrap theory was a dead idea ... Even now, Capra's book, with its nutty denials of what has happened in particle theory, can be found selling well at every major bookstore. It has been joined by some other books on the same topic, most notably Gary Zukav's \"The Dancing Wu-Li Masters\". The bootstrap philosophy, despite its complete failure as a physical theory, lives on as part of an embarrassing New Age cult, with its followers refusing to acknowledge what has happened.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54237109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54237109", "title": "Theodore George", "text": "Theodore George\n\nTheodore D. George (born 1971) is an American philosopher and associate professor and chair of the department of philosophy at Texas A&M University. \nHe is known for his expertise on post-Kantian philosophy and hermeneutics. \nGeorge is the editor of \"\". \nHe was the president of North American Society for Philosophical Hermeneutics between 2013 and 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1862705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1862705", "title": "Ulrich Libbrecht", "text": "Ulrich Libbrecht\n\nUlrich Libbrecht (10 July 1928, Avelgem – 15 May 2017) was a Belgian philosopher and author in the field of comparative philosophy. His magnum opus consists of four books in Dutch - called \"Introduction to Comparative Philosophy\". \n\nAn abbreviated version of these works in English, entitled \"Within the Four Seas...\" was published by Peeters Ed. (Leuven, 2007) This book explains how a comparative model, based on the paradigm-free axes of energy and information, accommodates the current world-views of Taoism, Buddhism and Rationalism – representing the Chinese, Indian and Western heritage - and shows how science and religion interrelate within such a global framework.\n\nProf. dr. Ulrich Libbrecht was an authority in the field of Eastern and Comparative philosophy. He studied sinology in Gent, graduated cum laude in 1972 at the University of Leiden (R.U. Leiden) and that same year became a professor in sinology, Chinese philosophy and buddhology at the University of Leuven. He also founded the School for Comparative Philosophy in Antwerp (Belgium) and School Philosophy East-West in Utrecht (Netherlands). \n\nUlrich Libbrecht died on 15 May 2017, in the Belgian town of Ronse. No cause of death was released.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1694538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694538", "title": "Walter of Mortagne", "text": "Walter of Mortagne\n\nWalter of Mortagne (b. Mortagne, Flanders, c. 1100; d. Laon, 1174) was a Scholastic philosopher, and theologian.\n\nMortagne was educated in the schools of Tournai. Between 1136 and 1144 he taught at the School of St Genevieve in Paris. From Paris he went to Laon and was made bishop of that see. His principal works are a treatise on the Holy Trinity and six \"Opuscula\". Of the \"Opuscula\" five are published in Lucas d'Achéry's \"Spicilegium\" (Paris, 1723) and the sixth in P.L. (CLXXXVI, 1052). A logical commentary which is contained in MS. 17813 of the Bibliothèque Nationale and which was published in part by Barthélemy Hauréau in 1892 is also ascribed to him. Finally, there is extant a letter written by him to Abelard, in which he expounds the Platonic view that the body is an obstacle to the higher operations and aspirations of the soul.\n\nOn the question of universals, Walter, according to John of Salisbury, was the leader of the Indifferentists, according to whom the universal is in itself indifferent, but becomes the predicate of an individual subject by the addition of various status, that is determinations or, at least, points of view. Socrates, for example, is an individual, a species (man), or a genus (animal) according to the status, or point of view, which we adopt. The significant thing about this theory is that it explicitly declares all real existence to be individual existence and implies that whatever unity there is in the universal (specific or generic) is a product of thought. It is, therefore, a protest against the exaggerated realism of the school of William of Champeaux, and, at the same time, prepares the way for the moderate realism which was definitely formulated in the 13th century.\n"}
{"id": "30676108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30676108", "title": "Wish fulfillment", "text": "Wish fulfillment\n\nWish fulfillment is the satisfaction of a desire through an involuntary thought process. Wish fulfillment can occur in dreams or in daydreams, in the symptoms of neurosis, or in the hallucinations of psychosis. This satisfaction is often indirect and requires interpretation to recognize.\n\nSigmund Freud coined the term () in 1900 in an early text titled \"The Interpretation of Dreams\". According to Freud, wish fulfillment occurs when unconscious desires are repressed by the ego and superego. This repression often stems from guilt and taboos imposed by society. Dreams are attempts by the unconscious to resolve some repressed conflict.\n"}
