{"id": "17509378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17509378", "title": "Adonai-Shomo", "text": "Adonai-Shomo\n\nAdonai-Shomo was the name given to a commune which existed from 1861 to 1896 in Massachusetts.\n\nThe commune was founded by Frederick T. Howland, a Quaker who had become convinced that the Second Coming of Christ and the subsequent Last Judgement would come shortly. On that basis, he started the commune, with initially roughly 30 members.\n\nSome years later, Howland died in an accident, leaving a leadership vacuum in the community. A man named Cook arrived and said that God had sent him to take over the community. The members of the group accepted him initially. However, Cook later began to institute some unusual sexual practices into the group, which led the members to depose him from the leadership and initiate criminal charges against him. Cook was replaced by a man named Richards, who led the group for several years, during which time it prospered and was able to purchase near Petersham, Massachusetts.\n\nIn time, the older members of the commune began to die off, and several of the younger members left. Eventually, a group of the younger members filed suit against Richards to gain partial control of the group's property, eventually winning the suit. However, the money from the sale of the commune's land was barely sufficient to cover the group's debts and legal fees, leading the group to disband in 1896.\n\n"}
{"id": "17510815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17510815", "title": "African Theological Archministry", "text": "African Theological Archministry\n\nThe African Theological Archministry (ATA) is a charitable and spiritual Nonprofit 501(c)3 organization chartered in the state of South Carolina in 1980. It spawned as a cultural, historical and spiritual movement in New York in the 1970s from the \"Sango Temple\", a branch of the ancient spiritual traditions of the ancientIsese of the Yoruba and Vodun of the Fon, that was founded by Oba Efuntola Oseijeman Adefunmi I, born Walter Eugene King in Detroit, MI. In 1970, King was crowned \"Oba\" in West Africa and took the regal name \"Oba Efuntola Adelabu Adefunmi I\". He then moved the congregation of practitioners that had grown around him to South Carolina, where they subsequently founded the Oyotunji community. The group has grown over the years, having nineteen affiliated centers in the United States in 1988.\n"}
{"id": "2169692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2169692", "title": "Ahmad Suradji", "text": "Ahmad Suradji\n\nAhmad Suradji (10 January 1949 – 10 July 2008) was an Indonesian serial killer who admitted to killing 42 girls and women between 1986 and 1997. His victims ranged in age from 11 to 30, and were strangled after being buried up to their waists in the ground as part of a ritual. He buried his victims in a sugarcane plantation near his home, with their heads facing his house, which he believed would give him extra power. Suradji, a cattle-breeder, was also known as Nasib Kelewang, or by his alias Datuk.\n\nSuradji was arrested on 30 April 1997, after bodies were discovered near his home on the outskirts of Medan, the capital of North Sumatra.\n\nHis three wives, who were sisters, were also arrested for assisting in the murders and helping him hide the bodies. One of his wives, Tumini, was tried as his accomplice and was sentenced to death before it was reduced to life imprisonment. He was sentenced to death by firing squad and executed on 10 July 2008.\n\nOn 24 April 1997, 21-year-old Sri Kemala Dewi asked a 15-year-old rickshaw puller named Andreas to take her to \"Datuk\". She informed him to keep it a secret and never requested to be picked up. Three days later, Dewi's naked and decomposing body was found in a sugarcane field by a man and was later dug up by a group of people who then called the police. Andreas reported to the police and Dewi's family that he had dropped her off at Suradji's house three days earlier, and so police visited Suradji for confrontation. Although he denied any links with Dewi's killing, police found Dewi's handbag, dress and bracelet in his home. He was later arrested on 30 April 1997. During interrogation, Suradji slowly confessed to Dewi's murder but also revealed that he had killed up to 42 girls in the same fashion and an excavation process had to be carried out in the sugarcane field where Dewi's body was located. Throughout the process, 42 bodies had been found with some being so decomposed to the point where they were unidentifiable.\n\nHe told police that he had a dream in 1986 in which his father's ghost directed him to drink the saliva of 70 dead young women so that he could become a mystic healer. Suradji thought that it would take him too long to encounter 70 dead women singly and so he took up the initiative to kill. As a sorcerer, or dukun, women came to him for spiritual advice for such things like making themselves more beautiful or richer or so Suradji could cast a spell on their spouses so they'll never have an affair. He would take them into a sugarcane field and bury them up to their waist, claiming it was part of the ritual. He would then strangle them until they were dead and proceed to drink their saliva. After, he would strip the clothes from their bodies to accelerate decomposition and bury them back into the ground with their heads pointing toward his house. Suradji stated the following to the police:\n\n"}
{"id": "53858929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53858929", "title": "Anchiroe (mythology)", "text": "Anchiroe (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Anchiroe or Ankhiroê (Ancient Greek: Αγχιροη \"pouring flow\") may refer to the following figures:\n"}
{"id": "79183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79183", "title": "Ancient Mesopotamian religion", "text": "Ancient Mesopotamian religion\n\nMesopotamian religion refers to the religious beliefs and practices of the civilizations of ancient Mesopotamia, particularly Sumer, Akkad, Assyria and Babylonia between circa 3500 BC and 400 AD, after which they largely gave way to Syriac Christianity. The religious development of Mesopotamia and Mesopotamian culture in general was not particularly influenced by the movements of the various peoples into and throughout the area, particularly the south. Rather, Mesopotamian religion was a consistent and coherent tradition which adapted to the internal needs of its adherents over millennia of development.\n\nThe earliest undercurrents of Mesopotamian religious thought date to the mid 4th millennium BC, and involved the worship of forces of nature as providers of sustenance. In the 3rd millennium BC objects of worship were personified and became an expansive cast of divinities with particular functions. The last stages of Mesopotamian polytheism, which developed in the 2nd and 1st millenniums, introduced greater emphasis on personal religion and structured the gods into a monarchical hierarchy with the national god being the head of the pantheon. Mesopotamian religion finally declined with the spread of Iranian religions during the Achaemenid Empire and with the Christianization of Mesopotamia.\n\nIn the fourth millennium BC, the first evidence for what is recognisably Mesopotamian religion can be seen with the invention in Mesopotamia of writing circa 3500 BC.\n\nThe people of Mesopotamia originally consisted of two groups, East Semitic Akkadian speakers (later divided into the Assyrians and Babylonians) and the people of Sumer, who spoke a language isolate. These peoples were members of various city-states and small kingdoms. The Sumerians left the first records, and are believed to have been the founders of the civilisation of the Ubaid period (6500 BC to 3800 BC) in Upper Mesopotamia. By historical times they resided in southern Mesopotamia, which was known as Sumer (and much later, Babylonia), and had considerable influence on the Akkadian speakers and their culture. The Akkadian-speaking Semites are believed to have entered the region at some point between 3500 BC and 3000 BC, with Akkadian names first appearing in the regnal lists of these states c. 29th century BC.\n\nThe Sumerians were advanced: as well as inventing writing, they also invented early forms of mathematics, early wheeled vehicles/chariots, astronomy, astrology, written code of law, organised medicine, advanced agriculture and architecture, and the calendar. They created the first city-states such as Uruk, Ur, Lagash, Isin, Kish, Umma, Eridu, Adab, Akshak, Sippar, Nippur and Larsa, each of them ruled by an \"ensí\". The Sumerians remained largely dominant in this synthesised culture, however, until the rise of the Akkadian Empire under Sargon of Akkad circa 2335 BC, which united all of Mesopotamia under one ruler.\n\nThere was increasing syncretism between the Sumerian and Akkadian cultures and deities, with the Akkadians typically preferring to worship fewer deities but elevating them to greater positions of power. Circa 2335 BC, Sargon of Akkad conquered all of Mesopotamia, uniting its inhabitants into the world's first empire and spreading its domination into ancient Iran, the Levant, Anatolia, Canaan and the Arabian Peninsula. The Akkadian Empire endured for two centuries before collapsing due to economic decline, internal strife and attacks from the north east by the Gutian people.\n\nFollowing a brief Sumerian revival with the Third Dynasty of Ur or Neo-Sumerian Empire, Mesopotamia broke up into a number of Akkadian states. Assyria had evolved during the 25th century BC, and asserted itself in the north circa 2100 BC in the Old Assyrian Empire and southern Mesopotamia fragmented into a number of kingdoms, the largest being Isin, Larsa and Eshnunna.\n\nIn 1894 BC the initially minor city-state of Babylon was founded in the south by invading West Semitic-speaking Amorites. It was rarely ruled by native dynasties throughout its history.\n\nSome time after this period, the Sumerians disappeared, becoming wholly absorbed into the Akkadian-speaking population.\n\nAssyrian kings are attested from the late 25th century BC and dominated northern Mesopotamia and parts of eastern Anatolia and northeast Syria.\n\nCirca 1750 BC, the Amorite ruler of Babylon, King Hammurabi, conquered much of Mesopotamia, but this empire collapsed after his death, and Babylonia was reduced to the small state it had been upon its founding. The Amorite dynasty was deposed in 1595 BC after attacks from mountain-dwelling people known as the Kassites from the Zagros Mountains, who went on to rule Babylon for over 500 years.\n\nAssyria, having been the dominant power in the region with the Old Assyrian Empire between the 20th and 18th centuries BC before the rise of Hammurabi, once more became a major power with the Middle Assyrian Empire (1391–1050 BC). Assyria defeated the Hittites and Mitanni, and its growing power forced the New Kingdom of Egypt to withdraw from the Near East. The Middle Assyrian Empire at its height stretched from the Caucasus to modern Bahrain and from Cyprus to western Iran.\n\nThe Neo-Assyrian Empire (911–605 BC) was the most dominant power on earth and the largest empire the world had yet seen between the 10th century BC and the late 7th century BC, with an empire stretching from Cyprus in the west to central Iran in the east, and from the Caucasus in the north to Nubia, Egypt and the Arabian Peninsula in the south, facilitating the spread of Mesopotamian culture and religion far and wide under emperors such as Ashurbanipal, Tukulti-Ninurta II, Tiglath-Pileser III, Shalmaneser IV, Sargon II, Sennacherib and Esarhaddon. During the Neo-Assyrian Empire, Mesopotamian Aramaic became the lingua franca of the empire, and also Mesopotamia proper. The last written records in Akkadian were astrological texts dating from 78 CE discovered in Assyria.\n\nThe empire fell between 612 BC and 599 BC after a period of severe internal civil war in Assyria which soon spread to Babylonia, leaving Mesopotamia in a state of chaos. A weakened Assyria was then subject to combined attacks by a coalition of hitherto vassals, in the form of the Babylonians, Chaldeans, Medes, Scythians, Persians, Sagartians and Cimmerians beginning in 616 BC. These were led by Nabopolassar of Babylon and Cyaxares of Media and Persia. Nineveh was sacked in 612 BC, Harran fell in 608 BC, Carchemish in 605 BC, and final traces of Assyrian imperial administration disappeared from Dūr-Katlimmu by 599 BC.\n\nBabylon had a brief late flowering of power and influence, initially under the migrant Chaldean dynasty, which took over much of the empire formerly held by their northern kinsmen. However, the last king of Babylonia, Nabonidus, an Assyrian, paid little attention to politics, preferring to worship the lunar deity Sin, leaving day-to-day rule to his son Belshazzar. This and the fact that the Persians and Medes to the east were growing in power now that the might of Assyria that had held them in vassalage for centuries was gone, spelt the death knell for native Mesopotamian power. The Achaemenid Empire conquered the Neo-Babylonian Empire in 539 BC, after which the Chaldeans disappeared from history, although Mesopotamian people, culture and religion continued to endure after this.\n\nLike many nations in Mesopotamian history, Assyria was originally, to a great extent, an oligarchy rather than a monarchy. Authority was considered to lie with \"the city\", and the polity had three main centres of power—an assembly of elders, a hereditary ruler, and an eponym. The ruler presided over the assembly and carried out its decisions. He was not referred to with the usual Akkadian term for \"king\", \"šarrum\"; that was instead reserved for the city's patron deity Ashur, of whom the ruler was the high priest. The ruler himself was only designated as \"steward of Assur\" (\"iššiak Assur\"), where the term for steward is a borrowing from Sumerian \"ensí\". The third centre of power was the eponym (\"limmum\"), who gave the year his name, similarly to the eponymous archon and Roman consuls of classical antiquity. He was annually elected by lot and was responsible for the economic administration of the city, which included the power to detain people and confiscate property. The institution of the eponym as well as the formula \"iššiak Assur\" lingered on as ceremonial vestiges of this early system throughout the history of the Assyrian monarchy.\n\nThe religion of the Neo-Assyrian Empire centered around the Assyrian king as the king of their lands as well. However, kingship at the time was linked very closely with the idea of divine mandate. The Assyrian king, while not being a god himself, was acknowledged as the chief servant of the chief god, Ashur. In this manner, the king's authority was seen as absolute so long as the high priest reassured the peoples that the gods, or in the case of the henotheistic Assyrians, the God, was pleased with the current ruler. For the Assyrians who lived in Assur and the surrounding lands, this system was the norm. For the conquered peoples, however, it was novel, particularly to the people of smaller city-states. In time, Ashur was promoted from being the local deity of Assur to the overlord of the vast Assyrian domain, which spread from the Caucasus and Armenia in the north to Egypt, Nubia and the Arabian Peninsula in the south, and from Cyprus and the eastern Mediterranean Sea in the west to central Iran in the east. Assur, the patron deity of the city of Assur from the late Bronze Age, was in constant rivalry with the patron deity of Babylon, Marduk. Worship was conducted in his name throughout the lands dominated by the Assyrians. With the worship of Assur across much of the Fertile Crescent, the Assyrian king could command the loyalty of his fellow servants of Assur.\n\nIn 539 BC, Mesopotamia was conquered by the Achaemenid Empire (539–332 BC), then ruled by Cyrus the Great. This brought to an end over 3,000 years of Semitic Mesopotamian dominance of the Near East. The Persians maintained and did not interfere in the native culture and religion and Assyria and Babylon continued to exist as entities (although Chaldea and the Chaldeans disappeared), and Assyria was strong enough to launch major rebellions against Persia in 522 and 482 BC. During this period the Syriac language and Syriac script evolved in Assyria, and were centuries later to be the vehicle for the spread of Syriac Christianity throughout the near east.\n\nThen, two centuries later in 330 BC the Macedonian Greek emperor Alexander the Great overthrew the Persians and took control of Mesopotamia itself. After Alexander's death increased Hellenistic influence was brought to the region by the Seleucid Empire. Assyria and Babylonia later became provinces under the Parthian Empire (Athura and province of Babylonia), Rome (province of Assyria) and Sassanid Empire (province of Asuristan). Babylonia was dissolved as an entity during the Parthian Empire, though Assyria endured as a geo-political entity until the 7th century AD Arab Islamic conquest.\n\nDuring the Parthian Empire there was a major revival in Assyria (known as Athura and Assuristan) between the 2nd century BC and 4th century CE, with temples once more being dedicated to gods such as Ashur, Sin, Shamash, Hadad and Ishtar in independent Neo-Assyrian states such as Assur, Adiabene, Osroene, Beth Garmai, Hatra and Beth Nuhadra.\n\nWith the Christianization of Mesopotamia beginning in the 1st century CE the independent Assyrian states of Adiabene, Osroene, Assur, Hatra, Beth Nuhadra and Beth Garmai were largely ruled by converts to home grown forms of still extant Eastern Rite Christianity in the form of the Church of the East and Syriac Orthodox Church, as well as Judaism. Gnostic sects such as Sabianism and the still extant Mandeanism also became popular, though native religions still coexisted alongside these new monotheistic religions among the native populace; gods such as Ashur and Sin were still worshiped until the 4th century CE in Assyria. In the 3rd century CE another native Mesopotamian religion flourished, Manicheanism, which incorporated elements of Christianity, Judaism, Buddhism, and Zoroastrianism, as well as local Mesopotamian elements.\n\nThere are no specific written records explaining Mesopotamian religious cosmology that survive to us today. Nonetheless, modern scholars have examined various accounts, and created what is believed to be an at least partially accurate depiction of Mesopotamian cosmology. In the \"Epic of Creation\", dated to 1200 BC, it explains that the god Marduk killed the mother goddess Tiamat and used half her body to create the earth, and the other half to create both the paradise of \"šamû\" and the netherworld of \"irṣitu\". A document from a similar period stated that the universe was a spheroid, with three levels of \"šamû\", where the gods dwelt, and where the stars existed, above the three levels of earth below it.\n\nMesopotamian religion was polytheistic, thereby accepting the existence of many different deities, both male and female, though it was also henotheistic, with certain gods being viewed as superior to others by their specific devotees. These devotees were often from a particular city or city-state that held that deity as its patron deity, for instance the god Enki was often associated with the city of Eridu in Sumer, the god Ashur with Assur and Assyria, Enlil with the Sumerian city of Nippur, Ishtar with the Assyrian city of Arbela, and the god Marduk was associated with Babylon. Though the full number of gods and goddesses found in Mesopotamia is not known, K. Tallqvist, in his \"Akkadische Götterepitheta\" (1938) counted around two thousand four hundred that we now know about, most of which had Sumerian names. In the Sumerian language, the gods were referred to as \"dingir\", while in the Akkadian language they were known as \"ilu\" and it seems that there was syncreticism between the gods worshipped by the two groups, adopting one another's deities.\n\nThe Mesopotamian gods bore many similarities with humans, and were anthropomorphic, thereby having humanoid form. Similarly, they often acted like humans, requiring food and drink, as well as drinking alcohol and subsequently suffering the effects of drunkenness, but were thought to have a higher degree of perfection than common men. They were thought to be more powerful, all-seeing and all-knowing, unfathomable, and, above all, immortal. One of their prominent features was a terrifying brightness (\"melammu\") which surrounded them, producing an immediate reaction of awe and reverence among men. In many cases, the various deities were family relations of one another, a trait found in many other polytheistic religions. The historian J. Bottéro was of the opinion that the gods were not viewed mystically, but were instead seen as high-up masters who had to be obeyed and feared, as opposed to loved and adored. Nonetheless, many Mesopotamians, of all classes, often had names that were devoted to a certain deity; this practice appeared to have begun in the third millennium BC among the Sumerians, but also was later adopted by the Akkadians, Assyrians and Babylonians as well.\n\nInitially, the pantheon was not ordered, but later Mesopotamian theologians came up with the concept of ranking the deities in order of importance. A Sumerian list of around 560 deities that did this was uncovered at Farm and Tell Abû Ṣalābīkh and dated to circa 2600 BC, ranking five primary deities as being of particular importance.\n\nOne of the most important of these early Mesopotamian deities was the god Enlil, who was originally a Sumerian divinity viewed as a king of the gods and a controller of the world, who was later adopted by the Akkadians. Another was the Sumerian god An, who served a similar role to Enlil and became known as Anu among the Akkadians. The Sumerian god Enki was later also adopted by the Akkadians, initially under his original name, and later as Éa. Similarly the Sumerian moon god Nanna became the Akkadian Sîn while the Sumerian sun god Utu became the Akkadian Shamash. One of the most notable goddesses was the Sumerian sex and war deity Inanna. With the later rise to power of the Babylonians in the 18th century BC, the king, Hammurabi, declared Marduk, a deity who before then had not been of significant importance, to a position of supremacy alongside Anu and Enlil in southern Mesopotamia.\n\nPerhaps the most significant legend to survive from Mesopotamian religion is the Epic of Gilgamesh, which tells the story of the heroic king Gilgamesh and his wild friend Enkidu, and the former's search for immortality which is entwined with all the gods and their approval. It also contains the earliest reference to The Great Flood.\n\nEach Mesopotamian city was home to a deity, and each of the prominent deities was the patron of a city, and all known temples were located in cities, though there may have been shrines in the suburbs. The temple itself was constructed of mud brick in the form of a ziggurat, which rose to the sky in a series of stairstep stages. Its significance and symbolism have been the subject of much discussion, but most regard the tower as a kind of staircase or ladder for the god to descend from and ascend to the heavens, though there are signs which point towards an actual cult having been practiced in the upper temple, so the entire temple may have been regarded as a giant altar. Other theories treat the tower as an image of the cosmic mountain where a dying and rising god \"lay buried.\" Some temples, such as the temple of Enki in Eridu contained a holy tree (\"kiskanu\") in a holy grove, which was the central point of various rites performed by the king, who functioned as a \"master gardener.\"\n\nMesopotamian temples were originally built to serve as dwelling places for the god, who was thought to reside and hold court on earth for the good of the city and kingdom. His presence was symbolized by an image of the god in a separate room. The god's presence within the image seems to have been thought of in a very concrete way, as instruments for the presence of the deity.\" This is evident from the poem \"How Erra Wrecked the World\", in which Erra deceived the god Marduk into leaving his cult statue. Once constructed, idols were consecrated through special nocturnal rituals where they were given \"life\", and their mouth \"was opened\" (\"pet pî\") and washed (\"mes pî\") so they could see and eat. If the deity approved, it would accept the image and agree to \"inhabit\" it. These images were also entertained, and sometime escorted on hunting expeditions. In order to service the gods, the temple was equipped with a household with kitchens and kitchenware, sleeping rooms with beds and side rooms for the deity's family, as well as a courtyard with a basin and water for cleansing visitors, as well as a stable for the god's chariot and draft animals.\n\nGenerally, the god's well-being was maintained through service, or work (\"dullu\"). The image was dressed and served banquets twice a day. It is not known how the god was thought to consume the food, but a curtain was drawn before the table while he or she \"ate\", just as the king himself was not allowed to be seen by the masses while he ate. Occasionally, the king shared in these meals, and the priests may have had some share in the offerings as well. Incense was also burned before the image, because it was thought that the gods enjoyed the smell. Sacrificial meals were also set out regularly, with a sacrificial animal seen as a replacement (\"pūhu\") or substitute (\"dinānu\") for a man, and it was considered that the anger of the gods or demons was then directed towards the sacrificial animal. Additionally, certain days required extra sacrifices and ceremonies for certain gods, and every day was sacred to a particular god.\n\nThe king was thought, in theory, to be the religious leader (\"enu\" or \"šangū\") of the cult and exercised a large number of duties within the temple, with a large number of specialists whose task was to mediate between men and gods: a supervising or \"watchman\" priest (\"šešgallu\"), priests for individual purification against demons and magicians (\"āšipu\"), priests for the purification of the temple (\"mašmašu\"), priests to appease the wrath of the gods with song and music (\"kalū\"), as well as female singers (\"nāru\"), male singers (\"zammeru\"), craftsmen (\"mārē ummāni\"), swordbearers (\"nāš paṭri\"), masters of divination (\"bārû\"), penitents (\"šā'ilu\"), and others.\n\nBesides the worship of the gods at public rituals, individuals also paid homage to a personal deity. As with other deities, the personal gods changed over time and little is known about early practice as they are rarely named or described. In the mid-third millennium BC, some rulers regarded a particular god or gods as being their personal protector. In the second millennium BC, personal gods began to function more on behalf of the common man, with whom he had a close, personal relationship, maintained through prayer and maintenance of his god's statue. A number of written prayers have survived from ancient Mesopotamia, each of which typically exalt the god that they are describing above all others. The historian J. Bottéro stated that these poems display \"extreme reverence, profound devotion, [and] the unarguable emotion that the supernatural evoked in the hearts of those ancient believers\" but that they showed a people who were scared of their gods rather than openly celebrating them. They were thought to offer good luck, success, and protection from disease and demons, and one's place and success in society was thought to depend on his personal deity, including the development of his certain talents and even his personality. This was even taken to the point that everything he experienced was considered a reflection of what was happening to his personal god. When a man neglected his god, it was assumed that the demons were free to inflict him, and when he revered his god, that god was like a shepherd who seeks food for him.\n\nThere was a strong belief in demons in Mesopotamia, and private individuals, like the temple priests, also participated in incantations (šiptu) to ward them off. Although there was no collective term for these beings either in Sumerian or Akkadian, they were merely described as harmful or dangerous beings or forces, and they were used as a logical way to explain the existence of evil in the world. They were thought to be countless in number, and were thought to even attack the gods as well. Besides demons, there were also spirits of the dead, (etimmu) who could also cause mischief. Amulets were occasionally used, and sometimes a special priest or exorcist (āšipu or mašmašu) was required. Incantations and ceremonies were also used to cure diseases which were also thought to be associated with demonic activity, sometimes making use of sympathetic magic. Sometimes an attempt was made to capture a demon by making an image of it, placing it above the head of a sick person, then destroying the image, which the demon was somehow likely to inhabit. Images of protecting spirits were also made and placed at gates to ward off disaster.\n\nDivination was also employed by private individuals, with the assumption that the gods have already determined the destinies of men and these destinies could be ascertained through observing omens and through rituals (e.g., casting lots). It was believed that the gods expressed their will through \"words\" (amatu) and \"commandments\" (qibitu) which were not necessarily spoken, but were thought to manifest in the unfolding routine of events and things. There were countless ways to divine the future, such as observing oil dropped into a cup of water (lecanomancy), observing the entrails of sacrificial animals (extispicy), observation of the behavior of birds (augury) and observing celestial and meteorological phenomena (astrology), as well as through interpretation of dreams. Often interpretation of these phenomena required the need for two classes of priests: askers (sa'ilu) and observer (baru), and also sometimes a lower class of ecstatic seer (mahhu) that was also associated with witchcraft.\n\nAlthough ancient paganism tended to focus more on duty and ritual than morality, a number of general moral virtues can be gleaned from surviving prayers and myths. It was believed that man originated as a divine act of creation, and the gods were believed to be the source of life, and held power over sickness and health, as well as the destinies of men. Personal names show that each child was considered a gift from divinity. Man was believed to have been created to serve the gods, or perhaps wait on them: the god is lord (\"belu\") and man is servant or slave (\"ardu\"), and was to fear (\"puluhtu\") the gods and have the appropriate attitude towards them. Duties seem to have been primarily of a cultic and ritual nature, although some prayers express a positive psychological relationship, or a sort of conversion experience in regard to a god. Generally the reward to mankind is described as success and long life.\n\nEvery man also had duties to his fellow man which had some religious character, particularly the king's duties to his subjects. It was thought that one of the reasons the gods gave power to the king was to exercise justice and righteousness, described as \"mēšaru\" and \"kettu\", literally \"straightness, rightness, firmness, truth\". Examples of this include not alienating and causing dissension between friends and relatives, setting innocent prisoners free, being truthful, being honest in trade, respecting boundary lines and property rights, and not putting on airs with subordinates. Some of these guidelines are found in the second tablet of the \"Šurpu\" incantation series.\n\nSin, on the other hand, was expressed by the words \"hitu\" (mistake, false step), \"annu\" or \"arnu\" (rebellion), and \"qillatu\" (sin or curse), with strong emphasis on the idea of rebellion, sometimes with the idea that sin is man's wishing to \"live on his own terms\" (ina ramanisu). Sin also was described as anything which incited the wrath of the gods. Punishment came through sickness or misfortune, which inevitably lead to the common reference to unknown sins, or the idea that one can transgress a divine prohibition without knowing it—psalms of lamentation rarely mention concrete sins. This idea of retribution was also applied to the nation and history as a whole. A number of examples of Mesopotamian literature show how war and natural disasters were treated as punishment from the gods, and how kings were used as a tool for deliverance.\n\nSumerian myths suggest a prohibition against premarital sex. Marriages were often arranged by the parents of the bride and groom; engagements were usually completed through the approval of contracts recorded on clay tablets. These marriages became legal as soon as the groom delivered a bridal gift to his bride's father. Nonetheless, evidence suggests that premarital sex was a common, but surreptitious, occurrence. Outside Sumerian society, Mesopotamian religion and culture were highly sexualized, more so in Babylonia than Assyria, where free sexual expression was viewed as one of the natural benefits of civilized life—same gender attraction, transgender individuals, and male and female prostitution were tolerated, and in some cases considered sacred. The worship of Inanna/Ishtar, which was prevalent in Mesopotamia could involve wild, frenzied dancing and bloody ritual celebrations of social and physical abnormality. It was believed that \"nothing is prohibited to Inanna\", and that by depicting transgressions of normal human social and physical limitations, including traditional gender definition, one could cross over from the \"conscious everyday world into the trance world of spiritual ecstasy.\"\n\nThe ancient Mesopotamians believed in an afterlife that was a land below our world. It was this land, known alternately as \"Arallû\", \"Ganzer\" or \"Irkallu\", the latter of which meant \"Great Below\", that it was believed everyone went to after death, irrespective of social status or the actions performed during life. Unlike Christian Hell, the Mesopotamians considered the underworld neither a punishment nor a reward. Nevertheless, the condition of the dead was hardly considered the same as the life previously enjoyed on earth: they were considered merely weak and powerless ghosts. The myth of Ishtar's descent into the underworld relates that \"dust is their food and clay their nourishment, they see no light, where they dwell in darkness.\" Stories such as the Adapa myth resignedly relate that, due to a blunder, all men must die and that true everlasting life is the sole property of the gods.\n\nThere are no known Mesopotamian tales about the end of the world, although it has been speculated that they believed that this would eventually occur. This is largely because Berossus wrote that the Mesopotamians believed the world to last \"twelve times twelve \"sars\"\"; with a \"sar\" being 3,600 years, this would indicate that at least some of the Mesopotamians believed that the Earth would only last 518,400 years. Berossus does not report what was thought to follow this event, however.\n\nThe modern study of Mesopotamia (Assyriology) is still a fairly young science, beginning only in the middle of the Nineteenth century, and the study of Mesopotamian religion can be a complex and difficult subject because, by nature, their religion was governed only by usage, not by any official decision, and by nature it was neither dogmatic nor systematic. Deities, characters, and their actions within myths changed in character and importance over time, and occasionally depicted different, sometimes even contrasting images or concepts. This is further complicated by the fact that scholars are not entirely certain what role religious texts played in the Mesopotamian world.\n\nFor many decades, some scholars of the Ancient Near East argued that it was impossible to define there as being a singular Mesopotamian religion, with Leo Oppenheim (1964) stating that \"a systematic presentation of Mesopotamian religion cannot and should not be written. \" Others, like Jean Bottéro, the author of \"Religion in Ancient Mesopotamia\", disagreed, believing that it would be too complicated to divide the religion into many smaller groups, stating that:\n\nAccording to Panbabylonism, a school of thought founded by Hugo Winckler and held in the early 20th century among primarily German Assyriologists, there was a common cultural system extending over the Ancient Near East which was overwhelmingly influenced by the Babylonians. According to this theory the religions of the Near East were rooted in Babylonian astral science- including the Hebrew Bible and Judaism. This theory of a Babylonian-derived Bible originated from the discovery of a stele in the acropolis of Susa bearing a Babylonian flood myth with many similarities to the flood of Genesis, the Epic of Gilgamesh. However, flood myths appear in almost every culture around the world, including cultures that never had contact with Mesopotamia. The fundamental tenets of Panbabylonism were eventually dismissed as pseudoscientific, however Assyriologists and biblical scholars recognize the influence of Babylonian mythology on Jewish mythology and other Near Eastern mythologies, albeit indirect. Indeed, similarities between both religious traditions may draw from even older sources.\n\nIn the New Testament Book of Revelation, Babylonian religion is associated with religious apostasy of the lowest order, the archetype of a political/religious system heavily tied to global commerce, and it is depicted as a system which, according to the author, continued to hold sway in the first century CE, eventually to be utterly annihilated. According to some interpretations, this is believed to refer to the Roman Empire, but according to other interpretations, this system remains extant in the world until the Second Coming.\n\nMesopotamian religion, culture, history and mythology has influenced some forms of music. As well as traditional Syriac folk music, many heavy metal bands have named themselves after Mesopotamian gods and historical figures, including the partly Assyrian band Melechesh.\n\nVarious new religious movements in the 20th and 21st centuries have been founded that venerate some of the deities found in ancient Mesopotamian religion, including various strains of neopaganism that have adopted the worship of the historical Mesopotamian gods.\n\nAs with most dead religions, many aspects of the common practices and intricacies of the doctrine have been lost and forgotten over time. However, much of the information and knowledge has survived, and great work has been done by historians and scientists, with the help of religious scholars and translators, to re-construct a working knowledge of the religious history, customs, and the role these beliefs played in everyday life in Sumer, Akkad, Assyria, Babylonia, Ebla and Chaldea during this time. Mesopotamian religion is thought to have been an influence on subsequent religions throughout the world, including Canaanite, Aramean, and ancient Greek.\n\nMesopotamian religion was polytheistic, worshipping over 2,100 different deities, many of which were associated with a specific state within Mesopotamia, such as Sumer, Akkad, Assyria or Babylonia, or a specific Mesopotamian city, such as; (Ashur), Nineveh, Ur, Nippur, Arbela, Harran, Uruk, Ebla, Kish, Eridu, Isin, Larsa, Sippar, Gasur, Ekallatum, Til Barsip, Mari, Adab, Eshnunna and Babylon.\n\nSome of the most significant of these Mesopotamian deities were Anu, Enki, Enlil, Ishtar (Astarte), Ashur, Shamash, Shulmanu, Tammuz, Adad/Hadad, Sin (Nanna), Kur, Dagan (Dagon), Ninurta, Nisroch, Nergal, Tiamat, Ninlil, Bel, Tishpak and Marduk.\n\nMesopotamian religion has historically the oldest body of recorded literature of any religious tradition. What is known about Mesopotamian religion comes from archaeological evidence uncovered in the region, particularly numerous literary sources, which are usually written in Sumerian, Akkadian (Assyro-Babylonian) or Aramaic using cuneiform script on clay tablets and which describe both mythology and cultic practices. Other artifacts can also be useful when reconstructing Mesopotamian religion. As is common with most ancient civilizations, the objects made of the most durable and precious materials, and thus more likely to survive, were associated with religious beliefs and practices. This has prompted one scholar to make the claim that the Mesopotamian's \"entire existence was infused by their religiosity, just about everything they have passed on to us can be used as a source of knowledge about their religion.\" While Mesopotamian religion had almost completely died out by approximately 400–500 CE after its indigenous adherents had largely become Assyrian Christians, it has still had an influence on the modern world, predominantly because many biblical stories that are today found in Judaism, Christianity, Islam and Mandaeism were possibly based upon earlier Mesopotamian myths, in particular that of the creation myth, the Garden of Eden, the flood myth, the Tower of Babel, figures such as Nimrod and Lilith and the Book of Esther. It has also inspired various contemporary neo-pagan groups.\n\nThe unusual and apparently physical closeness of gods to men in these stories has prompted various speculations including Julian Jaynes's theory of the bicameral mind and Zecharia Sitchin's ancient astronauts theory. While rejected in scholarship, such speculations have influenced many science fiction stories and movies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83764", "title": "Axioche", "text": "Axioche\n\nAxioche (Άξιόχη) was a nymph in Greek mythology. She was the mother of Chrysippus by Pelops. Elsewhere she is referred to as \"Danais\".\n"}
{"id": "37082893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37082893", "title": "Burqush", "text": "Burqush\n\nBurqush or Burkush () is an archaeological site situated west of Damascus, Syria.\n\nThe nearby Wadi al-Qarn is an important breeding site for wild birds in the Middle East and has been identified by BirdLife International as an Important Bird Area.\n\nThe site sits at an altitude of and overlooks the Damascus plain and surrounding hill country where herds of goats and camels wander the area. Due to the sensitive nature of the territory close to the borders with Lebanon and the Golan, visitors may need a military escort to access the site, which is a ten-minute walk along a steep track away from the main road.\n\nJulien Aliquot suggested that the site may have been called Barkousa in ancient times. This was contrary to the location of Barkusha that had previously been suggested by Albrecht Alt in 1947. In the 6th century, it was renamed Justinianopolis (, \"city of Justinian\") after the Byzantine emperor Justinian I.\n\nThere are the ruins of two Roman temples in the village that are included in a group of Temples of Mount Hermon.\n\nThe ruins of a 6th-century CE Byzantine basilica lie on the top of a hill which has been artificially flattened to form a two level plateau. The area around features numerous rock cut rooms and crypts. The podium on which the basilica is constructed is suggested to be that of a previous Roman temple suggested to date to the 1st century CE. The Roman temple itself is thought to have been built on the remains of a previous temple that had been in use for secular purposes for at least four hundred years earlier and possibly for many generations prior. The basilica is constructed of massive blocks of stone and the site is littered with other confusing blocks, some of which possibly resemble buildings or unusual geological outcrops.\n\nThe temple complex at Burqush was mentioned by the German archaeological mission to Baalbek in 1903 and has received little study since then. A topographic and architectural survey of the site was conducted in 1999 by Gunnar Brands for the University of Halle-Wittenberg. A dissertation covering the results of the survey is in progress by Frederike von Bargen.\n\nThe survey noted complex substructures, and intended to document the surrounding settlements, tombs, quarries and a propylon temple ruins. The survey was hampered by the remoteness and altitude of the site, tank shelling, and finding a settlement in the area that was twice as large as expected with numerous rock cut tombs nearby. The basement of the basilica was constructed from bedrock and showed a high technical quality of construction. Traces of bronze candle holders were found along with remnants of a marble cover that was white with gray veining. Twelve capitals were recorded in 1903, of which only eight remained in place, with three more displaced nearby, one reused for medieval farming. The twelfth capital had been covered in rubble and totally obscured. The east wall of the basilica features a portico. Foundations of what were thought to be a peristyle for the basilica were found to its north west, some of the area to the north was cleared and leveled by the military. The remains of the settlement are dispersed on the east slope of the hill are also large buildings on the west slope.\n\n"}
{"id": "14608201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14608201", "title": "Caecilia Paulina", "text": "Caecilia Paulina\n\nCaecilia Paulina (died in 235/236) was a Roman Empress and consort to Emperor Maximinus Thrax, who ruled in 235–238.\n\nHer full name, \"Diva Caecilia Paulina Pia Augusta\", was preserved on an inscription (). On her coins she is termed simply Diva Paulina. The coins with her inscription were not struck during her life, but some time later, probably after she was deified. No sculptural likenesses of her survive.\n\nAlmost nothing is known about her life, as ancient writers rarely mentioned her by name. Her husband never set foot in Rome, thus it is likely that neither did she, at least in her time married to the Emperor. She lived during the Crisis of the Third Century, a time of the crumbling and near collapse of the Roman Empire, caused by three simultaneous crises: external invasion, internal civil war, and economic collapse. While the 4th century historian Ammianus Marcellinus wrote about Paulina in his book on the Gordian emperors, this part of his work was lost, only the sections of his \"History\" covering the period 353–378 are extant. In a later passage, however, Marcellinus refers to the Empress as the good wife of the difficult husband who had:\nPaulina had one son, Gaius Julius Verus Maximus, appointed Caesar in 236 by his father, but both men were murdered by the soldiers in May 238. Paulina probably died around late 235 or early 236, as Maximus had her deified in 236.\n\nThe city of Anazarbus in Cilicia struck coins in the name of \"Thea Paulina\" (the Greek equivalent of \"Diva Paulina\"), and dated them to the year 254 of that city’s era which converts to 235/236 of the modern calendar. That Paulina is referred to as divine on the coins indicates that she was dead when the coins were produced.\n\nJoannes Zonaras claims that Maximinus executed his wife, but that accusation is unproven, and improbable if she was deified by her husband.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2281350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2281350", "title": "Canons Regular of the New Jerusalem", "text": "Canons Regular of the New Jerusalem\n\nThe Canons Regular of the New Jerusalem is a clerical Institute of Consecrated Life in the Catholic Church, founded in 2002 in the Diocese of La Crosse, Wisconsin, and currently located in Charles Town, West Virginia after a period in Chesterfield, Missouri in the Archdiocese of Saint Louis, in the United States.\n\nThis institute celebrates the traditional Latin Liturgy (Tridentine Mass) according to the rites of 1962, as promulgated by Pope John Paul II's motu proprio \"Ecclesia Dei\" of 1988. The members live in community under the Augustinian Rule, taking vows of stability, conversion of life, obedience, and common life.\n\nThe institute was founded by then-Bishop (later Cardinal) Raymond Leo Burke and Dom Daniel Augustine Oppenheimer, Prior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3118873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3118873", "title": "Chola dynasty", "text": "Chola dynasty\n\nThe Chola dynasty was one of the longest-ruling dynasties in history. The earliest datable references to this Tamil dynasty are in inscriptions from the 3rd century BCE left by Ashoka, of the Maurya Empire (Ashoka Major Rock Edict No.13). As one of the Three Crowned Kings of Tamilakam, the dynasty continued to govern over varying territory until the 13th century CE.\n\nThe heartland of the Cholas was the fertile valley of the Kaveri River, but they ruled a significantly larger area at the height of their power from the later half of the 9th century till the beginning of the 13th century. The whole country south of the Tungabhadra was united and held as one state for a period of two centuries and more. Under Rajaraja Chola I and his successors Rajendra Chola I, Rajadhiraja Chola, Virarajendra Chola and Kulothunga Chola I the dynasty became a military, economic and cultural power in South Asia and South-East Asia. The power of the new empire was proclaimed to the eastern world by the expedition to the Ganges which Rajendra Chola I undertook and by the naval raids on cities of the maritime empire of Srivijaya, as well as by the repeated embassies to China. The Chola fleet represented the zenith of ancient Indian sea power.\n\nDuring the period 1010–1153, the Chola territories stretched from the islands of the Maldives in the south to as far north as the banks of the Godavari River in Andhra Pradesh. Rajaraja Chola conquered peninsular South India, annexed parts of which is now Sri Lanka and occupied the islands of the Maldives. Rajendra Chola sent a victorious expedition to North India that touched the river Ganges and defeated the Pala ruler of Pataliputra, Mahipala. He also successfully invaded cities of Srivijaya of Malaysia and Indonesia. The Chola dynasty went into decline at the beginning of the 13th century with the rise of the Pandyan Dynasty, which ultimately caused their downfall.\n\nThe Cholas left a lasting legacy. Their patronage of Tamil literature and their zeal in the building of temples has resulted in some great works of Tamil literature and architecture. The Chola kings were avid builders and envisioned the temples in their kingdoms not only as places of worship but also as centres of economic activity. They pioneered a centralised form of government and established a disciplined bureaucracy. The Chola school of art spread to Southeast Asia and influenced the architecture and art of Southeast Asia.\n\nThe Cholas are also known as the \"Choda\".. The cholas claimed Suryavansha lineage for themselves. Its antiquity is evident from the mentions in ancient Tamil literature and in inscriptions. Later medieval Cholas also claimed a long and ancient lineage. Mentions in the early Sangam literature (c. 150 CE) indicate that the earliest kings of the dynasty antedated 100 CE. Cholas were mentioned in Ashokan Edicts of 3rd Century BCE as one of the neighboring countries existing in the South.\n\nA commonly held view is that \"Chola\" is, like \"Chera\" and \"Pandya\", the name of the ruling family or clan of immemorial antiquity. The annotator Parimelazhagar said: \"The charity of people with ancient lineage (such as the Cholas, the Pandyas and the Cheras) are forever generous in spite of their reduced means\". Other names in common use for the Cholas are \"Killi\" (கிள்ளி), \"Valavan\" (வளவன்) and \"Sembiyan\" (செம்பியன்). \"Killi\" perhaps comes from the Tamil \"kil\" (கிள்) meaning dig or cleave and conveys the idea of a digger or a worker of the land. This word often forms an integral part of early Chola names like Nedunkilli, Nalankilli and so on, but almost drops out of use in later times. \"Valavan\" is most probably connected with \"valam\" (வளம்) – fertility and means owner or ruler of a fertile country. \"Sembiyan\" is generally taken to mean a descendant of Shibi – a legendary hero whose self-sacrifice in saving a dove from the pursuit of a falcon figures among the early Chola legends and forms the subject matter of the Sibi Jataka among the Jataka stories of Buddhism. In Tamil lexicon \"Chola\" means \"Soazhi\" or \"Saei\" denoting a newly formed kingdom, in the lines of \"Pandya\" or the old country.\n\nThere is very little written evidence available of the Cholas prior to the 7th century. Historic records exist thereafter, including inscriptions on temples. During the past 150 years, historians have gleaned significant knowledge on the subject from a variety of sources such as ancient Tamil Sangam literature, oral traditions, religious texts, temple and copperplate inscriptions. The main source for the available information of the early Cholas is the early Tamil literature of the Sangam Period. There are also brief notices on the Chola country and its towns, ports and commerce furnished by the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" (\"Periplus Maris Erythraei\"), and in the slightly later work of the geographer Ptolemy. \"Mahavamsa\", a Buddhist text written down during the 5th century CE, recounts a number of conflicts between the inhabitants of Ceylon and Cholas in the 1st century BCE. Cholas are mentioned in the Pillars of Ashoka (inscribed 273 BCE–232 BCE) inscriptions, where they are mentioned among the kingdoms which, though not subject to Ashoka, were on friendly terms with him.\n\nThe history of the Cholas falls into four periods: the Early Cholas of the Sangam literature, the interregnum between the fall of the Sangam Cholas and the rise of the Imperial medieval Cholas under Vijayalaya (c. 848), the dynasty of Vijayalaya, and finally the Later Chola dynasty of Kulothunga Chola I from the third quarter of the 11th century.\n\nThe earliest Chola kings for whom there is tangible evidence are mentioned in the Sangam literature. Scholars generally agree that this literature belongs to the second or first few centuries of the common era. The internal chronology of this literature is still far from settled, and at present a connected account of the history of the period cannot be derived. It records the names of the kings and the princes, and of the poets who extolled them.\n\nThe Sangam literature also records legends about mythical Chola kings. These myths speak of the Chola king Kantaman, a supposed contemporary of the sage Agastya, whose devotion brought the river Kaveri into existence. Two names are prominent among those Chola kings known to have existed who feature in Sangam literature: Karikala Chola and Kocengannan. There are no sure means of settling the order of succession, of fixing their relations with one another and with many other princelings of around the same period. Urayur (now a part of Thiruchirapalli) was their oldest capital. Kaveripattinam also served as an early Chola capital. The \"Mahavamsa\" mentions that an ethnic Tamil adventurer, a Chola prince known as Ellalan, invaded the island Sri Lanka and conquered it around 235 BCE with the help of a Mysore army.\n\nThere is not much information about the transition period of around three centuries from the end of the Sangam age (c. 300) to that in which the Pandyas and Pallavas dominated the Tamil country. An obscure dynasty, the Kalabhras invaded Tamil country, displaced the existing kingdoms and ruled during that time. They were displaced by the Pallava dynasty and the Pandyan dynasty in the 6th century. Little is known of the fate of the Cholas during the succeeding three centuries until the accession of Vijayalaya in the second quarter of the 9th century.As per inscriptions found in and around Thanjavur shows that the kingdom was ruled by Mutharaiyars for three centuries which was ended by Vijayalaya chola by Capturing Thanjavur from Ilango Mutharaiyar somewhere between 848-851.\n\nEpigraphy and literature provide few glimpses of the transformations that came over this line of kings during this long interval. It is certain that when the power of the Cholas fell to its lowest ebb and that of the Pandyas and Pallavas rose to the north and south of them, this dynasty was compelled to seek refuge and patronage under their more successful rivals. The Cholas continued to rule over a diminished territory in the neighbourhood of Uraiyur, but only in a minor capacity. In spite of their reduced powers, the Pandayas and Pallavas accepted Chola princesses in marriage, possibly out of regard for their reputation. Numerous Pallava inscriptions of this period mention their having fought rulers of the Chola country. Despite this loss in influence and power, it is unlikely that the Cholas lost total grip of the territory around Uraiyur, their old capital, as Vijayalaya, when he rose to prominence hailed from that area.\n\nAround the 7th century, a Chola kingdom flourished in present-day Andhra Pradesh. These Telugu Cholas traced their descent to the early Sangam Cholas. However, it is not known if they had any relation to the early Cholas. It is possible that a branch of the Tamil Cholas migrated north during the time of the Pallavas to establish a kingdom of their own, away from the dominating influences of the Pandyas and Pallavas. The Chinese pilgrim Xuanzang, who spent several months in Kanchipuram during 639–640 writes about the \"kingdom of Culi-ya\", in an apparent reference to these Telugu Cholas.\n\nVijayalaya was the founder of the Imperial Chola dynasty which was the beginning of one of the most splendid empires in Indian history. Vijayalaya, possibly a feudatory of the Pallava dynasty, took an opportunity arising out of a conflict between the Pandya dynasty and Pallava dynasty in c. 850, captured Thanjavur from Muttarayar, and established the imperial line of the medieval Chola Dynasty. Thanjavur became the capital of the Imperial Chola Dynasty.\n\nThe Chola dynasty was at the peak of its influence and power during the medieval period. Through their leadership and vision, Chola kings expanded their territory and influence. The second Chola King, Aditya I, caused the demise of the Pallava dynasty and defeated the Pandyan dynasty of Madurai in 885, occupied large parts of the Kannada country, and had marital ties with the Western Ganga dynasty. In 925, his son Parantaka I conquered Sri Lanka (known as Ilangai). Parantaka I also defeated the Rashtrakuta dynasty under Krishna II in the battle of Vallala.\n\nRajaraja Chola I and Rajendra Chola I were the greatest rulers of the Chola dynasty, extending it beyond the traditional limits of a Tamil kingdom. At its peak, the Chola Empire stretched from the island of Sri Lanka in the south to the Godavari-Krishna river basin in the north, up to the Konkan coast in Bhatkal, the entire Malabar Coast in addition to Lakshadweep, Maldives, and vast areas of Chera country. Rajaraja Chola I was a ruler with inexhaustible energy, and he applied himself to the task of governance with the same zeal that he had shown in waging wars. He integrated his empire into a tight administrative grid under royal control, and at the same time strengthened local self-government. Therefore, he conducted a land survey in 1000 CE to effectively marshall the resources of his empire. He also built the Brihadeeswarar Temple in 1010 CE.\n\nRajendra Chola I conquered Odisha and his armies continued to march further north and defeated the forces of the Pala Dynasty of Bengal and reached the Ganges river in north India. Rajendra Chola I built a new capital called Gangaikonda Cholapuram to celebrate his victories in northern India. Rajendra Chola I successfully invaded the Srivijaya kingdom in Southeast Asia which led to the decline of the empire there. This expedition had such a great impression to the Malay people of the medieval period that his name was mentioned in the corrupted form as Raja Chulan in the medieval Malay chronicle \"Sejarah Melayu\". He also completed the conquest of the island of Sri Lanka and took the Sinhala king Mahinda V as a prisoner, in addition to his conquests of Rattapadi (territories of the Rashtrakutas, Chalukya country, Talakkad, and Kolar, where the Kolaramma temple still has his portrait statue) in Kannada country. Rajendra's territories included the area falling on the Ganges-Hooghly-Damodar basin, as well as Sri Lanka and Maldives. The kingdoms along the east coast of India up to the river Ganges acknowledged Chola suzerainty. Three diplomatic missions were sent to China in 1016, 1033, and 1077.\n\nThe Western Chalukya Empire under Satyashraya and Someshvara I tried to wriggle out of Chola domination from time to time, primarily due to the Chola influence in the Vengi kingdom. The Western Chalukyas mounted several unsuccessful attempts to engage the Chola emperors in war, and except for a brief occupation of Vengi territories between 1118–1126, all their other attempts ended in failure with successive Chola emperors routing the armies of the Chalukyas at various places in many wars. Virarajendra Chola defeated Someshvara II of the Western Chalukya Empire and made an alliance with Prince Vikramaditya VI. Cholas always successfully controlled the Chalukyas in the western Deccan by defeating them in war and levying tribute on them. Even under the emperors of the Cholas like Kulothunga I and Vikrama Chola, the wars against the Chalukyas were mainly fought in Chalukya territories in Karnataka or in the Telugu country like Vengi, Kakinada, Anantapur, or Gutti. Then the former feudatories like the Hoysalas, Yadvas, and Kakatiyas steadily increased their power and finally replaced the Chalukyas. With the occupation of Dharwar in North Central Karnataka by the Hoysalas under Vishnuvardhana, where he based himself with his son Narasimha I in-charge at the Hoysala capital Dwarasamudra around 1149, and with the Kalachuris occupying the Chalukyan capital for over 35 years from around 1150–1151, the Chalukya kingdom was already starting to dissolve.\n\nThe Cholas under Kulothunga Chola III collaborated to the herald the dissolution of the Chalukyas by aiding Hoysalas under Veera Ballala II, the son-in-law of the Chola monarch, and defeated the Western Chalukyas in a series of wars with Someshvara IV between 1185–1190. The last Chalukya king's territories did not even include the erstwhile Chalukyan capitals Badami, Manyakheta or Kalyani. That was the final dissolution of Chalukyan power though the Chalukyas existed only in name since 1135–1140. But the Cholas remained stable until 1215, were absorbed by the Pandyan empire and ceased to exist by 1279.\n\nOn the other hand, throughout the period from 1150–1280, the staunchest opponents of the Cholas were Pandya princes who tried to win independence for their traditional territories. This period saw constant warfare between the Cholas and the Pandyas. The Cholas also fought regular wars with the Eastern Gangas of Kalinga, protected Vengi though it remained largely independent under Chola control, and had domination of the entire eastern coast with their feudatories the Telugu Cholas, Velananti Cholas, Renandu Cholas etc. who also always aided the Cholas in their successful campaigns against the Chalukyas and levying tribute on the Kannada kingdoms and fought constantly with the Sinhalas, who attempted to overthrow the Chola occupation of Lanka, but until the time of the Later Chola king Kulottunga I the Cholas had firm control over Lanka. A Later Chola king, Rajadhiraja Chola II, was strong enough to prevail over a confederation of five Pandya princes who were aided by their traditional friend, the king of Lanka, this once again gave control of Lanka to the Cholas despite the fact that they were not strong under the resolute Rajadhiraja Chola II. However, his successor, the last great Chola monarch Kulottunga Chola III reinforced the hold of the Cholas by quelling rebellion and disturbances in Lanka and Madurai, defeated Hoysala generals under Veera Ballala II in Karuvur, in addition to holding on to his traditional territories in Tamil country, Eastern Gangavadi, Draksharama, Vengi and Kalinga. After this, he entered into a marital alliance with Veera Ballala II (with Ballala's marriage to a Chola princess) and his relationship with Hoysalas seems to have become friendlier.\n\nDuring the reign of Rajaraja Chola I and his successors Rajendra Chola I, Virarajendra Chola and Kulothunga Chola I the Chola armies invaded Sri Lanka, the Maldives and parts of Southeast Asia like Malaysia, Indonesia and Southern Thailand of the Srivijaya Empire in the 11th century. Rajaraja Chola I launched several naval campaigns that resulted in the capture of Sri Lanka, Maldives and the Malabar Coast. In 1025, Rajendra Chola launched naval raids on ports of Srivijaya and against the Burmese kingdom of Pegu. A Chola inscription states that he captured or plundered 14 places, which have been identified with Palembang, Tambralinga and Kedah among others. A second invasion was led by Virarajendra Chola, who conquered Kedah in Malaysia of Srivijaya in the late 11th century.\n\nMarital and political alliances between the Eastern Chalukyas began during the reign of Rajaraja following his invasion of Vengi. Rajaraja Chola's daughter married Chalukya prince Vimaladitya and Rajendra Chola's daughter Ammanga Devi was married to the Eastern Chalukya prince Rajaraja Narendra. Virarajendra Chola's son, Athirajendra Chola, was assassinated in a civil disturbance in 1070, and Kulothunga Chola I, the son of Ammanga Devi and Rajaraja Narendra, ascended the Chola throne. Thus began the Later Chola dynasty.\n\nThe Later Chola dynasty was led by capable rulers such as Kulothunga Chola I, his son Vikrama Chola, other successors like Rajaraja Chola II, Rajadhiraja Chola II, and Kulothunga Chola III, who conquered Kalinga, Ilam, and Kataha. However, the rule of the later Cholas between 1218, starting with Rajaraja Chola II, to the last emperor Rajendra Chola III was not as strong as those of the emperors between 850–1215. Around 1118, they lost control of Vengi to the Western Chalukya and Gangavadi (southern Mysore districts) to the Hoysala Empire. However, these were only temporary setbacks, because immediately following the accession of king Vikrama Chola, the son and successor of Kulothunga Chola I, the Cholas lost no time in recovering the province of Vengi by defeating Chalukya Someshvara III and also recovering Gangavadi from the Hoysalas. The Chola Empire, though not as strong as between 850–1150, was still largely territorially intact under Rajaraja Chola II (1146–1175) a fact attested by the construction and completion of the third grand Chola architectural marvel, the chariot-shaped Airavatesvara Temple at Dharasuram on the outskirts of modern Kumbakonam. Chola administration and territorial integrity until the rule of Kulothunga Chola III was stable and very prosperous up to 1215, but during his rule itself, the decline of the Chola power started following his defeat by Maravarman Sundara Pandiyan II in 1215–16. Subsequently, the Cholas also lost control of the island of Lanka and were driven out by the revival of Sinhala power.\n\nIn continuation of the decline, also marked by the resurgence of the Pandyan dynasty as the most powerful rulers in South India, a lack of a controlling central administration in its erstwhile-Pandyan territories prompted a number of claimants to the Pandya throne to cause a civil war in which the Sinhalas and the Cholas were involved by proxy. Details of the Pandyan civil war and the role played by the Cholas and Sinhalas, are present in the \"Mahavamsa\" as well as the Pallavarayanpettai Inscriptions.\n\nThe Cholas, under Rajaraja Chola III and later, his successor Rajendra Chola III, were quite weak and therefore, experienced continuous trouble. One feudatory, the Kadava chieftain Kopperunchinga I, even held Rajaraja Chola III as hostage for sometime. At the close of the 12th century, the growing influence of the Hoysalas replaced the declining Chalukyas as the main player in the Kannada country, but they too faced constant trouble from the Seunas and the Kalachuris, who were occupying Chalukya capital because those empires were their new rivals. So naturally, the Hoysalas found it convenient to have friendly relations with the Cholas from the time of Kulothunga Chola III, who had defeated Hoysala Veera Ballala II, who had subsequent marital relations with the Chola monarch. This continued during the time of Rajaraja Chola III the son and successor of Kulothunga Chola III\n\nThe Pandyas in the south had risen to the rank of a great power who ultimately banished the Hoysalas from Malanadu or Kannada country, who were allies of the Cholas from Tamil country and the demise of the Cholas themselves ultimately was caused by the Pandyas in 1279. The Pandyas first steadily gained control of the Tamil country as well as territories in Sri Lanka, Chera country, Telugu country under Maravarman Sundara Pandiyan II and his able successor Jatavarman Sundara Pandyan before inflicting several defeats on the joint forces of the Cholas under Rajaraja Chola III, his successor Rajendra Chola III and the Hoysalas under Someshwara, his son Ramanatha Rajendra III tried to survive by aligning with the Kadava Pallavas and the Hoysalas in turn in order to counter the constantly rising power of the Pandyans who were the major players in the Tamil country from 1215 and had intelligently consolidated their position in Madurai-Rameswaram-Ilam-Cheranadu and Kanyakumari belt, and had been steadily increasing their territories in the Kaveri belt between Dindigul-Tiruchy-Karur-Satyamangalam as well as in the Kaveri Delta i.e., Thanjavur-Mayuram-Chidambaram-Vriddhachalam-Kanchi, finally marching all the way up to Arcot—Tirumalai-Nellore-Visayawadai-Vengi-Kalingam belt by 1250.\n\nThe Pandyas steadily routed both the Hoysalas and the Cholas. They also dispossessed the Hoysalas, by defeating them under Jatavarman Sundara Pandiyan at Kannanur Kuppam. At the close of Rajendra's reign, the Pandyan empire was at the height of prosperity and had taken the place of the Chola empire in the eyes of the foreign observers. The last recorded date of Rajendra III is 1279. There is no evidence that Rajendra was followed immediately by another Chola prince. The Hoysalas were routed from Kannanur Kuppam around 1279 by Kulasekhara Pandiyan and in the same war the last Chola emperor Rajendra III was routed and the Chola empire ceased to exist thereafter. Thus the Chola empire was completely overshadowed by the Pandyan empire and sank into obscurity and ceased to exist by the end of the 13th century. However, only the Chola dynasty in India was extinguished but it survived elsewhere. According to Cebuano oral legends, a rebel branch of the Chola dynasty continued to survive in the Philippines up until the 16th Century, ruling a local Malayo-Tamil Indianized kingdom called the Rajahnate of Cebu which was founded by Rajamuda Sri Lumay Chola, born in Chola occupied Srivijaya. The Chola ruled Indianized kingdom flourished until its eventual conquest by Conquistador Miguel Lopez de Legaspi, who with his Spanish and Latino soldiers had sailed to the Philippines from Mexico.\n\nAccording to Tamil tradition, the Chola country comprised the region that includes the modern-day Tiruchirapalli District, Tiruvarur District, Nagapattinam District, Ariyalur District, Perambalur district, Pudukkottai district, Thanjavur District in Tamil Nadu and Karaikal District. The river Kaveri and its tributaries dominate this landscape of generally flat country that gradually slopes towards the sea, unbroken by major hills or valleys. The river, which is also known as the \"Ponni\" (\"Golden\") river, had a special place in the culture of Cholas. The annual floods in the Kaveri marked an occasion for celebration, known as \"Adiperukku\", in which the whole nation took part.\n\nKaveripoompattinam on the coast near the Kaveri delta was a major port town. Ptolemy knew of this, which he called Khaberis, and the other port town of Nagappattinam as the most important centres of Cholas. These two towns became hubs of trade and commerce and attracted many religious faiths, including Buddhism. Roman ships found their way into these ports. Roman coins dating from the early centuries of the common era have been found near the Kaveri delta.\n\nThe other major towns were Thanjavur, Uraiyur and Kudanthai, now known as Kumbakonam. After Rajendra Chola moved his capital to Gangaikonda Cholapuram, Thanjavur lost its importance.\n\nIn the age of the Cholas, the whole of South India was for the first time brought under a single government.\n\nThe Cholas' system of government was monarchical, as in the Sangam age. However, there was little in common between the local chiefdoms of the earlier period and the imperial-like states of Rajaraja Chola and his successors. Aside from the early capital at Thanjavur and the later on at Gangaikonda Cholapuram, Kanchipuram and Madurai were considered to be regional capitals in which occasional courts were held. The king was the supreme leader and a benevolent authoritarian. His administrative role consisted of issuing oral commands to responsible officers when representations were made to him. Due to the lack of a legislature or a legislative system in the modern sense, the fairness of king's orders dependent on his morality and belief in \"Dharma\". The Chola kings built temples and endowed them with great wealth. The temples acted not only as places of worship but also as centres of economic activity, benefiting the community as a whole. Some of the output of villages throughout the kingdom was given to temples that reinvested some of the wealth accumulated as loans to the settlements. The Chola Dynasty was divided into several provinces called Mandalams which were further divided into Valanadus and these Valanadus were sub-divided into units called Kottams or Kutrams. According to Kathleen Gough, during the Chola period the Vellalar were the \"dominant secular aristocratic caste ... providing the courtiers, most of the army officers, the lower ranks of the kingdom's bureaucracy, and the upper layer of the peasantry\".\n\nBefore the reign of Rajaraja Chola I huge parts of the Chola territory were ruled by hereditary lords and local princes who were in a loose alliance with the Chola rulers. Thereafter, until the reign of Vikrama Chola in 1133 CE when the Chola power was at its peak, these hereditary lords and local princes virtually vanished from the Chola records and were either replaced or turned into dependent officials. Through these dependent officials the administration was improved and the Chola kings were able to exercise a closer control over the different parts of the empire. There was an expansion of the administrative structure, particularly from the reign of Rajaraja Chola I onwards. The government at this time had a large land revenue department, consisting of several tiers, which was largely concerned with maintaining accounts. The assessment and collection of revenue were undertaken by corporate bodies such as the ur, nadu, sabha, nagaram and sometimes by local chieftains who passed the revenue to the centre. During the reign of Rajaraja Chola I, the state initiated a massive project of land survey and assessment and there was a reorganisation of the empire into units known as valanadus.\n\nThe order of the King was first communicated by the executive officer to the local authorities. Afterwards the records of the transaction was drawn up and attested by a number of witnesses who were either local magnates or government officers.\n\nAt local government level, every village was a self-governing unit. A number of villages constituted a larger entity known as a \"Kurram\", \"Nadu\" or \"Kottam\", depending on the area. A number of \"Kurrams\" constituted a \"valanadu\". These structures underwent constant change and refinement throughout the Chola period.\n\nJustice was mostly a local matter in the Chola Empire; minor disputes were settled at the village level. Punishment for minor crimes were in the form of fines or a direction for the offender to donate to some charitable endowment. Even crimes such as manslaughter or murder were punished with fines. Crimes of the state, such as treason, were heard and decided by the king himself; the typical punishment in these cases was either execution or confiscation of property.\n\nThe Chola dynasty had a professional military, of which the king was the supreme commander. It had four elements, comprising the cavalry, the elephant corps, several divisions of infantry and a navy. There were regiments of bowmen and swordsmen while the swordsmen were the most permanent and dependable troops. The Chola army was spread all over the country and was stationed in local garrisons or military camps known as \"Kodagams\". The elephants played a major role in the army and the dynasty had numerous war elephants. These carried houses or huge Howdahs on their backs, full of soldiers who shot arrows at long range and who fought with spears at close quarters.\n\nThe Chola rulers built several palaces and fortifications to protect their cities. The fortifications were mostly made up of bricks but other materials like stone, wood and mud were also used. According to the ancient Tamil text \"Silappadikaram\", the Tamil kings defended their forts with catapults that threw stones, huge cauldrons of boiling water or molten lead, and hooks, chains and traps.\n\nThe soldiers of the Chola dynasty used weapons such as swords, bows, javelins, spears and shields which were made up of steel. Particularly the famous Wootz steel, which has a long history in south India dating back to the period before the Christian era, seems also be used to produce weapons. The army consisted of people from different castes but the warriors of the Kaikolar and Vellalar castes played a prominent role.\n\nThe Chola navy was the zenith of ancient India sea power. It played a vital role in the expansion of the empire, including the conquest of the Ceylon islands and naval raids on Srivijaya. The navy grew both in size and status during the medieval Cholas reign. The Chola admirals commanded much respect and prestige. The navy commanders also acted as diplomats in some instances. From 900 to 1100, the navy had grown from a small backwater entity to that of a potent power projection and diplomatic symbol in all of Asia, but was gradually reduced in significance when the Cholas fought land battles subjugating the Chalukyas of the Andhra-Kannada area in South India.\n\nA martial art called \"Silambam\" was patronised by the Chola rulers. Ancient and medieval Tamil texts mention different forms of martial traditions but the ultimate expression of the loyalty of the warrior to his commander was a form of martial suicide called \"Navakandam\". The medieval \"Kalingathu Parani\" text, which celebrates the victory of Kulothunga Chola I and his general in the battle for Kalinga, describes the practice in detail.\n\nLand revenue and trade tax were the main source of income.\nThe Chola rulers issued their coins in gold, silver and copper. The Chola economy was based on three tiers—at the local level, agricultural settlements formed the foundation to commercial towns nagaram, which acted as redistribution centres for externally produced items bound for consumption in the local economy and as sources of products made by nagaram artisans for the international trade. At the top of this economic pyramid were the elite merchant groups (\"samayam\") who organised and dominated the regions international maritime trade.\n\nOne of the main articles which were exported to foreign countries were cotton cloth. Uraiyur, the capital of the early Chola rulers, was a famous centre for cotton textiles which were praised by Tamil poets. The Chola rulers actively encouraged the weaving industry and derived revenue from it. During this period the weavers started to organise themselves into guilds. The weavers had their own residential sector in all towns. The most important weaving communities in early medieval times were the Saliyar and Kaikolar. During the Chola period silk weaving attained a high degree and Kanchipuram became one of the main centres for silk.\n\nMetal crafts reached its zenith during the 10th to 11th centuries because the Chola rulers like Chembian Maadevi extended their patronage to metal craftsmen. Wootz steel was a major export item.\n\nThe farmers occupied one of the highest positions in society. These were the Vellalar community who formed the nobility or the landed aristocracy of the country and who were economically a powerful group. Agriculture was the principal occupation for many people. Besides the landowners, there were others dependent on agriculture. The Vellalar community was the dominant secular aristocratic caste under the Chola rulers, providing the courtiers, most of the army officers, the lower ranks of the bureaucracy and the upper layer of the peasantry.\n\nIn almost all villages the distinction between persons paying the land-tax (iraikudigal) and those who did not was clearly established. There was a class of hired day-labourers who assisted in agricultural operations on the estates of other people and received a daily wage. All cultivable land was held in one of the three broad classes of tenure which can be distinguished as peasant proprietorship called vellan-vagai, service tenure and eleemosynary tenure resulting from charitable gifts. The vellan-vagai was the ordinary ryotwari village of modern times, having direct relations with the government and paying a land-tax liable to revision from time to time. The vellan-vagai villages fell into two broad classes- one directly remitting a variable annual revenue to the state and the other paying dues of a more or less fixed character to the public\ninstitutions like temples to which they were assigned. The prosperity of an agricultural country depends to a large extent on the facilities provided for irrigation. Apart from sinking wells and excavating tanks, the Chola rulers threw mighty stone dams across the Kaveri and other rivers, and cut out channels to distribute water over large tracts of land. Rajendra Chola I dug near his capital an artificial lake, which was filled with water from the Kolerun and the Vellar rivers.\n\nThere existed a brisk internal trade in several articles carried on by the organised mercantile corporations in various parts of the country. The metal industries and the jewellers art had reached a high degree of excellence. The manufacture of sea-salt was carried on under government supervision and control. Trade was carried on by merchants organised in guilds. The guilds described sometimes by the terms nanadesis were a powerful autonomous corporation of merchants which visited different countries in the course of their trade. They had their own mercenary army for the protection of their merchandise. There were also local organisations of merchants called \"nagaram\" in big centres of trade like Kanchipuram and Mamallapuram.\n\nHospitals were maintained by the Chola kings, whose government gave lands for that purpose. The Tirumukkudal inscription shows that a hospital was named after Vira Chola. Many diseases were cured by the doctors of the hospital, which was under the control of a chief physician who was paid annually 80 Kalams of paddy, 8 Kasus and a grant of land. Apart from the doctors, other remunerated staff included a nurse, barber (who performed minor operations) and a waterman.\n\nThe Chola queen Kundavai also established a hospital at Tanjavur and gave land for the perpetual maintenance of it.\n\nDuring the Chola period several guilds, communities and castes emerged. The guild was one of the most significant institutions of south India and merchants organised themselves into guilds. The best known of these were the Manigramam and Ayyavole guilds though other guilds such as Anjuvannam and Valanjiyar were also in existence. The farmers occupied one of the highest positions in society. These were the Vellalar community who formed the nobility or the landed aristocracy of the country and who were economically a powerful group. The Vellalar community was the dominant secular aristocratic caste under the Chola rulers, providing the courtiers, most of the army officers, the lower ranks of the bureaucracy and the upper layer of the peasantry. The Vellalar were also sent to northern Sri Lanka by the Chola rulers as settlers. The Ulavar community were working in the field which was associated with agriculture and the peasants were known as Kalamar.\n\nThe Kaikolar community were weavers and merchants but they also maintained armies. During the Chola period they had predominant trading and military roles. During the reign of the Imperial Chola rulers (10th-13th century) there were major changes in the temple administration and land ownership. There was more involvement of non-Brahmin elements in the temple administration. This can be attributed to the shift in money power. Skilled classes like the weavers and the merchant-class had become prosperous. Land ownership was no longer a privilege of the Brahmins (priest caste) and the Vellalar land owners.\n\nThere is little information on the size and the density of the population during the Chola reign The stability in the core Chola region enabled the people to lead a productive and contented life. However, there were reports of widespread famine caused by natural calamities.\n\nThe quality of the inscriptions of the regime indicates a high level of literacy and education. The text in these inscriptions was written by court poets and engraved by talented artisans. Education in the contemporary sense was not considered important; there is circumstantial evidence to suggest that some village councils organised schools to teach the basics of reading and writing to children, although there is no evidence of systematic educational system for the masses. Vocational education was through hereditary training in which the father passed on his skills to his sons. Tamil was the medium of education for the masses; Religious monasteries (\"matha\" or \"gatika\") were centres of learning and received government support.\n\nThe Cholas excelled in foreign trade and maritime activity, extending their influence overseas to China and Southeast Asia. Towards the end of the 9th century, southern India had developed extensive maritime and commercial activity. The south Indian guilds played a major role in interregional and overseas trade. The best known of these were the Manigramam and Ayyavole guilds who followed the conquering Chola armies. The encouragement by the Chola court furthered the expansion of Tamil merchant associations such as the Ayyavole and Manigramam guilds into Southeast Asia and China. The Cholas, being in possession of parts of both the west and the east coasts of peninsular India, were at the forefront of these ventures. The Tang dynasty of China, the Srivijaya empire under the Sailendras, and the Abbasid Kalifat at Baghdad were the main trading partners.\n\nSome credit for the emergence of a world market must also go to the dynasty. It played a significant role in linking the markets of China to the rest of the world. The market structure and economic policies of the Chola dynasty were more conducive to a large-scale, cross-regional market trade than those enacted by the Chinese Song Dynasty. A Chola record gives their rationale for engagement in foreign trade: \"Make the merchants of distant foreign countries who import elephants and good horses attach to yourself by providing them with villages and decent dwellings in the city, by affording them daily audience, presents and allowing them profits. Then those articles will never go to your enemies.\"\n\nSong dynasty reports record that an embassy from \"Chulian\" (Chola) reached the Chinese court in 1077, and that the king of the Chulian at the time, Kulothunga I, was called \"Ti-hua-kia-lo\". This embassy was a trading venture and was highly profitable to the visitors, who returned with copper coins in exchange for articles of tribute, including glass and spices. Probably, the motive behind Rajendra's expedition to Srivijaya was the protection of the merchants' interests.\n\nThere was tremendous agrarian expansion during the rule of the imperial Chola Dynasty (c. 900-1270 AD) all over Tamil Nadu and particularly in the Kaveri Basin. Most of the canals of the Kaveri River belongs to this period e.g., Uyyakondan canal, Rajendran vaykkal, Sembian Mahadegvi vaykkal. There was a well-developed and highly efficient system of water management from the village level upwards. The increase in the royal patronage and also the number of devadana and bramadeya lands which increased the role of the temples and village assemblies in the field. Committees like eri-variyam(tank-committee) and totta-variam(garden committees) were active as also the temples with their vast resources in land, men and money. The water tanks that came up during the Chola period are too many to be listed here. But a few most outstanding may be briefly mentioned. Rajendra Chola built a huge tank named Solagangam in his capital city Gangaikonda Solapuram and was described as the liquid pillar of victory. About 16 miles long, it was provided with sluices and canals for irrigating the lands in the neighbouring areas. Another very large lake of this period, which even today seems an important source of irrigation was the Viranameri near Kattumannarkoil in South Arcot district founded by Parantaka Chola. Other famous lakes of this period are Madurantakam, Sundra-cholapereri, Kundavai-Pereri (after a Chola queen).\n\nUnder the Cholas, the Tamil country reached new heights of excellence in art, religion, music and literature. In all of these spheres, the Chola period marked the culmination of movements that had begun in an earlier age under the Pallavas. Monumental architecture in the form of majestic temples and sculpture in stone and bronze reached a finesse never before achieved in India.\n\nThe Chola conquest of Kadaram (Kedah) and Srivijaya, and their continued commercial contacts with the Chinese Empire, enabled them to influence the local cultures. Examples of the Hindu cultural influence found today throughout the Southeast Asia owe much to the legacy of the Cholas. For example, the great temple complex at Prambanan in Indonesia exhibit a number of similarities with the South Indian architecture.\n\nAccording to the Malay chronicle \"Sejarah Melayu\", the rulers of the Malacca sultanate claimed to be descendants of the kings of the Chola Empire. Chola rule is remembered in Malaysia today as many princes there have names ending with Cholan or Chulan, one such being Raja Chulan, the Raja of Perak.\n\nThe Cholas continued the temple-building traditions of the Pallava dynasty and contributed significantly to the Dravidian temple design. They built a number of Shiva temples along the banks of the river Kaveri. The template for these and future temples was formulated by Aditya I and Parantaka. The Chola temple architecture has been appreciated for its magnificence as well as delicate workmanship, ostensibly following the rich traditions of the past bequeathed to them by the Pallava Dynasty. Architectural historian James Fergusson says that \"the Chola artists conceived like giants and finished like jewelers\". A new development in Chola art that characterised the Dravidian architecture in later times was the addition of a huge gateway called gopuram to the enclosure of the temple, which had gradually taken its form and attained maturity under the Pandya Dynasty. The Chola school of art also spread to Southeast Asia and influenced the architecture and art of Southeast Asia.\n\nTemple building received great impetus from the conquests and the genius of Rajaraja Chola and his son Rajendra Chola I. The maturity and grandeur to which the Chola architecture had evolved found expression in the two temples of Thanjavur and Gangaikondacholapuram. The magnificent Shiva temple of Thanjavur, completed around 1009, is a fitting memorial to the material achievements of the time of Rajaraja. The largest and tallest of all Indian temples of its time, it is at the apex of South Indian architecture. The temple of Gangaikondacholisvaram at Gangaikondacholapuram, the creation of Rajendra Chola, was intended to excel its predecessor. Completed around 1030, only two decades after the temple at Thanjavur and in the same style, the greater elaboration in its appearance attests the more affluent state of the Chola Empire under Rajendra. The Brihadisvara Temple, the temple of Gangaikondacholisvaram and the Airavatesvara Temple at Darasuram were declared as World Heritage Sites by the UNESCO and are referred to as the Great living Chola temples.\n\nThe Chola period is also remarkable for its sculptures and bronzes. Among the existing specimens in museums around the world and in the temples of South India may be seen many fine figures of Shiva in various forms, such as Vishnu and his consort Lakshmi, and the Shaivite saints. Though conforming generally to the iconographic conventions established by long tradition, the sculptors worked with great freedom in the 11th and the 12th centuries to achieve a classic grace and grandeur. The best example of this can be seen in the form of Nataraja the Divine Dancer.\n\nThe Imperial Chola era was the golden age of Tamil culture, marked by the importance of literature. Chola records cite many works, including the \"Rajarajesvara Natakam\", \"Viranukkaviyam\" and \"Kannivana Puranam\".\n\nThe revival of Hinduism from its nadir during the Kalabhras spurred the construction of numerous temples and these in turn generated Shaiva and Vaishnava devotional literature. Jain and Buddhist authors flourished as well, although in fewer numbers than in previous centuries. \"Jivaka-chintamani\" by Tirutakkatevar and \"Sulamani\" by Tolamoli are among notable works by non-Hindu authors. The grammarian Buddhamitra wrote a text on Tamil grammar called \"Virasoliyam\". Commentaries were written on the great text \"Tolkāppiyam\" which deals with grammar but which also mentions ethics of warfare. \"Periapuranam\" was another remarkable literary piece of this period. This work is in a sense a national epic of the Tamil people because it treats of the lives of the saints who lived in all parts of Tamil Nadu and belonged to all classes of society, men and women, high and low, educated and uneducated.\n\nKamban flourished during the reign of Kulothunga Chola III. His \"Ramavataram\" (also referred to as \"Kambaramayanam\") is an epic of Tamil literature, and although the author states that he followed Valmiki's \"Ramayana\", it is generally accepted that his work is not a simple translation or adaptation of the Sanskrit epic. He imports into his narration the colour and landscape of his own time; his description of Kosala is an idealised account of the features of the Chola country.\n\nJayamkondar's masterpiece, \"Kalingattuparani\", is an example of narrative poetry that draws a clear boundary between history and fictitious conventions. This describes the events during Kulothunga Chola I's war in Kalinga and depicts not only the pomp and circumstance of war, but the gruesome details of the field. The Tamil poet Ottakuttan was a contemporary of Kulothunga Chola I and served at the courts of three of Kulothunga's successors. Ottakuttan wrote \"Kulothunga Cholan Ula\", a poem extolling the virtues of the Chola king.\n\n\"Nannul\" is a Chola era work on Tamil grammar. It discusses all five branches of grammar and, according to Berthold Spuler, is still relevant today and is one of the most distinguished normative grammars of literary Tamil.\n\nOf the devotional literature, the arrangement of the Shaivite canon into eleven books was the work of Nambi Andar Nambi, who lived close to the end of the 10th century. However, relatively few Vaishnavite works were composed during the Later Chola period, possibly because of the rulers' apparent animosity towards them.\n\nChola rulers took an active interest in the development of temple centres and used the temples to widen the sphere of their royal authority. They established educational institutions and hospitals around the temple, enhanced the beneficial aspects of the role of the temple, and projected the royalty as a very powerful and genial presence. A record of Virarajendra Chola's reign relates to the maintenance of a school in the Jananamandapa within the temple for the study of the Vedas, Sastras, Grammar, and Rupavatara, as well as a hostel for students. The students were provided with food, bathing oil on Saturdays, and oil for pups. A hospital named Virasolan was provided with fifteen beds for sick people. The items of expense set apart for their comforts are rice, a doctor, a surgeon, two maid servants for nursing the patients, and a general servant for the hospital.\n\nIn general, Cholas were followers of Hinduism. They were not swayed by the rise of Buddhism and Jainism as were the kings of the Pallava and Pandya dynasties. Kocengannan, an Early Chola, was celebrated in both Sangam literature and in the Shaivite canon as a Hindu saint.\n\nWhile the Cholas did build their largest and most important temple dedicated to Shiva, it can be by no means concluded that either they were followers of Shaivism only or that they were not favourably disposed to other faiths. This is borne out by the fact that the second Chola king, Aditya I (871–903 CE), built temples for Shiva and also for Vishnu. Inscriptions of 890 refer to his contributions to the construction of the Ranganatha Temple at Srirangapatnam in the country of the Western Gangas, who were both his feudatories and had connections by marriage with him. He also pronounced that the great temples of Shiva and the Ranganatha temple were to be the \"Kuladhanam\" of the Chola emperors.\n\nParantaka II was a devotee of the reclining Vishnu (Vadivu Azhagiya Nambi) at Anbil, on the banks of the Kaveri river on the outskirts of Tiruchy, to whom he gave numerous gifts and embellishments. He also prayed before him before his embarking on war to regain the territories in and around Kanchi and Arcot from the waning Rashtrakutas and while leading expeditions against both Madurai and Ilam (Sri Lanka). Parantaka I and Parantaka Chola II endowed and built temples for Shiva and Vishnu. Rajaraja Chola I patronised Buddhists and provided for the construction of the Chudamani Vihara, a Buddhist monastery in Nagapattinam, at the request of Sri Chulamanivarman, the Srivijaya Sailendra king.\n\nDuring the period of the Later Cholas, there are alleged to have been instances of intolerance towards Vaishnavites especially towards their acharya, Ramanuja. Kulothunga Chola II, a staunch Shaivite, is said to have removed a statue of Vishnu from the Shiva temple at Chidambaram, though there are no epigraphical evidences to support this theory. There is an inscription from 1160 that the custodians of Shiva temples who had social intercourses with Vaishnavites would forfeit their property. However, this is more of a direction to the Shaivite community by its religious heads than any kind of dictat by a Chola emperor. While Chola kings built their largest temples for Shiva and even while emperors like Rajaraja Chola I held titles like \"Sivapadasekharan\", in none of their inscriptions did the Chola emperors proclaim that their clan only and solely followed Shaivism or that Shaivism was the state religion during their rule.\n\nThe Chola dynasty has inspired many Tamil authors. The most important work of this genre is the popular \"Ponniyin Selvan\" (The son of \"Ponni\"), a historical novel in Tamil written by Kalki Krishnamurthy. Written in five volumes, this narrates the story of Rajaraja Chola, dealing with the events leading up to the ascension of Uttama Chola to the Chola throne. Kalki had used the confusion in the succession to the Chola throne after the demise of Parantaka Chola II. The book was serialised in the Tamil periodical \"Kalki\" during the mid-1950s. The serialisation lasted for nearly five years and every week its publication was awaited with great interest.\n\nKalki's earlier historical romance, \"Parthiban Kanavu\", deals with the fortunes of the imaginary Chola prince Vikraman, who was supposed to have lived as a feudatory of the Pallava king Narasimhavarman I during the 7th century. The period of the story lies within the interregnum during which the Cholas were in decline before Vijayalaya Chola revived their fortunes. \"Parthiban Kanavu\" was also serialised in the \"Kalki\" weekly during the early 1950s.\n\nSandilyan, another popular Tamil novelist, wrote \"Kadal Pura\" in the 1960s. It was serialised in the Tamil weekly \"Kumudam\". \"Kadal Pura\" is set during the period when Kulothunga Chola I was in exile from the Vengi kingdom after he was denied the throne. It speculates the whereabouts of Kulothunga during this period. Sandilyan's earlier work, \"Yavana Rani\", written in the early 1960s, is based on the life of Karikala Chola. More recently, Balakumaran wrote the novel \"Udaiyar\", which is based on the circumstances surrounding Rajaraja Chola's construction of the Brihadisvara Temple in Thanjavur.\n\nThere were stage productions based on the life of Rajaraja Chola during the 1950s and in 1973 Sivaji Ganesan acted in a screen adaptation of a play titled \"Rajaraja Cholan\". The Cholas are featured in the History of the World board game, produced by Avalon Hill.\n\nThe Cholas were the subject of the 2010 Tamil-language movie \"Aayirathil Oruvan\".\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1723328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723328", "title": "Christian Order", "text": "Christian Order\n\nChristian Order is a British-based monthly magazine for Traditionalist Catholics which was described by John Beaumont of \"Fidelity\" magazine in 1996 as \"most influential of the conservative Catholic journals in the United Kingdom\".\n\nIt was originally devoted to the Catholic response to social issues, taking a distributist stance sceptical of the welfare state. In the 1970s a number of contributors were attracted such as George Telford (former vice-chairman and Secretary to the Catechetical Commission of the Bishops of England and Wales) and the lay author Michael Davies.\n\nThe magazine's rationale is presented in confrontational terms:\nThe Neocatechumenal Way is criticized in the magazine as \"heretical\" (Lutheran) and a \"Trojan horse\" in the Church. In an article published in the magazine, CJ O'Hehir described Ireland as \"the most anti-Catholic Catholic country in the world, and the most monolithically liberal of the world's democracies.\" The magazine has republished articles from \"Daylight,\" the magazine of the Catholic creationist Daylight Origins Society.\n\nIt has been criticised by \"Searchlight\" magazine for having among its contributors \"extremists\" (including John Vennari), a \"race-baiter\" (E. Michael Jones) and an \"antisemitic conspiracist\" (Robert Sungenis), and the website \"Catholic Culture\" suggests that its contents should be looked at in \"a critical light\" due to \"a bias against Church leaders, Vatican II, and the New Mass.\"\n"}
{"id": "213517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213517", "title": "Crypto-Judaism", "text": "Crypto-Judaism\n\nCrypto-Judaism is the secret adherence to Judaism while publicly professing to be of another faith; practitioners are referred to as \"crypto-Jews\" (origin from Greek \"kryptos – κρυπτός\", 'hidden').\n\nThe term is especially applied historically to Spanish Jews who outwardly professed Catholicism, also known as Anusim or Marranos. The phenomenon is especially associated with renaissance Spain, following the 6 June, 1391, Anti-Jewish pogroms and the expulsion of the Jews in 1492.\n\nOfficially, Jews who converted in Spain in the 14th and 15th centuries were known as \"Cristianos Nuevos\" (New Christians), but were commonly called \"conversos\". Spain and Portugal passed legislation restricting their rights in the mother countries and colonies; only Christians were allowed to go to the New World. Despite the dangers of the Inquisition, many \"conversos\" continued to secretly and discreetly practice Jewish rituals, such as the Festival of Santa Esterica.\n\nAfter the Alhambra decree of 1492 numerous \"conversos\", also called Xueta (or Chueta) in the Balearic Islands ruled by Spain, publicly professed Roman Catholicism but privately adhered to Judaism, even through the Spanish Inquisition. They are among the most widely known and documented crypto-Jews.\n\nCrypto-Judaism existed also in earlier periods, whenever Jews were forced or pressured to convert to the majority religion by the rulers of places where they resided. Some of the Jewish followers of Sabbatai Zevi (Sabbateans) formally converted to Islam. Later followers of Jacob Frank (\"Frankists\") formally converted to Christianity, but maintained aspects of practice of their versions of Messianic Judaism.\n\nCrypto-Jews persisted in Russia and Eastern European countries influenced by the Soviet Union after the rise of Communism with the Russian Revolution of 1917. The government, which included secular Communist Jews, did not force Jews to convert to the Russian Orthodox Church, but regarded practice of any religion as undesirable. Some faiths were allowed to continue under strict supervision by the regime. Since the end of Communism, many people in former Soviet states, including descendants of Jews, have publicly taken up the faith of their ancestors again.\n\nThe \"Belmonte Jews\" of Portugal, dating from the 12th century, maintained strong secret traditions for centuries. A whole community survived in secrecy by maintaining a tradition of endogamous marriage and hiding all external signs of their faith. They and their practices were discovered only in the 20th century. Their rich Sephardic tradition of Crypto-Judaism is unique. Some now profess Orthodox Judaism, although many still retain their centuries-old traditions.\n\nAs one of the towering figures in Judaism and the publisher of the Mishneh Torah expansion of the Talmud, Maimonides also issued a landmark doctrinal response to the forced conversions of Jews in the Iberian peninsula by the Almohads:\n\nIn his \"Epistle on Martyrdom,\" however, Maimonides suggested that the persecuted Jew should publicly adopt Islam while maintaining crypto-Judaism and not seek martyrdom unless forced to transgress Jewish commandments in public. He also excoriated one writer who advocated martyrdom for \"long-winded foolish babbling and nonsense\" and for misleading and hurting the Jews. In a sweeping view of the Jewish past, Maimonides marshals examples of heretics and sinners from the Bible to show that even oppressors of Israel were rewarded by God for a single act of piety or respect. How much greater then, he argues, will be the reward of the Jews \"who despite the exigencies of forced conversion perform commandments secretly.\"\n\nMaimonides championed rationalism over the then-accepted practice of martyrdom when facing religious adversity. This consequently legitimized crypto-Judaism by the religion's standards, and provided doctrinal backing for Jews during the centuries of the Spanish Inquisition (1478–1834).\n\nAccording to the Jewish Virtual Library, several incidents of forced conversions happened prior to 1492 and outside of Iberia. One of the earliest conversions happened a century after the Fall of Rome and was in Clermont-Ferrand. After a member of the Jewish community in Clermont-Ferrand became a Jewish Christian and was persecuted by other members of the community for doing so, the cavalcade in which he was marching persecuted his persecutors in turn:\n\nThe participants in the procession then made an attack \"which destroyed [the synagogue] completely, razing it to the grounds.\" Subsequently, Bishop *Avitus directed a letter to the Jews in which he disclaimed the use of compulsion to make them adopt Christianity, but announced at the end of the missive: \"Therefore if ye be ready to believe as I do, be one flock with us, and I shall be your pastor; but if ye be not ready, depart from this place.\" The community hesitated for three days before making a decision. Finally the majority, some 500, accepted Christianity. The Christians in Clermont greeted the event with rejoicing: \"Candles were lit, the lamps shone, the whole city radiated with the light of the snow-white flock\" (i.e., the forced converts). The Jews who preferred exile left for *Marseilles (Gregory of Tours, Histories, 5:11). The poet Venantius Fortunatus composed a poem to commemorate the occasion. In 582 the Frankish king Chilperic compelled numerous Jews to adopt Christianity. Again the anusim were not wholehearted in their conversion, for \"some of them, cleansed in body but not in heart, denied God, and returned to their ancient perfidy, so that they were seen keeping the Sabbath, as well as Sunday\" (ibid., 6:17).\n\nThe Clermont-Ferrand conversions preceded the first forced conversions in Iberia by 40 years. Forced baptisms of Jews took place in Iberia in 616 at the insistence of Visigoth monarch Sisibut:\n\nPersistent attempts to enforce conversion were made in the seventh century by the Visigoths in Spain after they had adopted the Roman Catholic faith. Comparatively mild legal measures were followed by the harsh edict issued by King Sisibut in 616, ordering the compulsory baptism of all Jews. After conversion, however, the anusim evidently maintained their Jewish cohesion and religious life. It was undoubtedly this problem that continued to occupy Spanish sovereigns at the successive Councils of Toledo representing both the ecclesiastical and secular authorities...Thus, steps were taken to secure that the children of converts had a Christian religious education as well as to prevent the older generation from continuing to observe the Jewish rites or from failing to observe the Catholic ones. A system of strict supervision by the clergy over the way of life and movements of the anusim was imposed...\n\nThe Neofiti were a group of crypto-Jews living in the Kingdom of Sicily, which included all of Southern Italy from the 13th to the 16th centuries.\n\nThere have been several communities of Crypto-Jews in Muslim lands. The ancestors of the Daggatuns in Morocco are thought to have kept up their Jewish practices a long time after their nominal adoption of Islam. In Iran, a large community of Crypto-Jews lived in Mashhad, near Khorassan, where they were known as \"Jedid al-Islam\"; they were mass-converted to Islam around 1839 after the Allahdad events. Most of this community left for Israel in 1946. Some converted to Islam and remained in Iran. In one central Iranian village, local Muslims practice many Jewish customs, such as women lighting a candle on Friday night (the eve of the Jewish Sabbath). Before sundown on Friday, they prepare a small fire which they leave on throughout Saturday, so as not to ignite the fire on the Sabbath.\n\nIn 1494, after the signing of the Treaty of Tordesillas, authorized by Pope Alexander VI, Portugal was given the right to found colonies in the Eastern Hemisphere. In the East, according to Walter Fischel, the Portuguese found use for the crypto-Jews in Goa and their other Indian and Asian possessions. Jews were used as \"letter-carriers, translators, agents, etc.\" The ability of the Sephardic Jews and anusim to speak Arabic made them vital to Portuguese colonial ambitions in the East, where they could go on diplomatic and trade missions in the courts of the Mughal Empire and elsewhere. India also attracted Sephardic Jews and anusim for other reasons. In his lecture at the Library of Congress, Sanjay Subrahmanyam said that crypto-Jews were especially attracted to India because not only was it a center of trade in goods such as spices and diamonds, but India also had established and ancient Jewish settlements along its Western coast. Although Jews were able to openly worship in Southern and Eastern India with the Bene Israel, Malibar, Cochin, and Baghdadi Jewish communities, they experienced severe violence and persecution from the Muslim influence in Northwest Punjabi India. The presence of these older communities offered the anusim, who had been forced to accept Catholicism, the chance to live within the Portuguese Empire, away from the Inquisition, and, if they wished, they were able to contact the Jews in these communities and re-adopt the faith of their fathers. The presence of crypto-Jews in India aroused the anger of the Archbishop of Goa, Dom Gaspar Jorge de Leão Pereira and others who wrote polemics and letters to Lisbon urging that the Inquisition be brought to India. Twenty-four years after Portuguese Inquisition began, the Goan Inquisition came to India in 1560 after Francis Xavier – who was made a saint by the Catholic Church – placed a request for it to the King of Portugal. The Inquisition in all the Portuguese territories put roughly 45,000 people on trial with \"the most active court being in Goa\". The Goan Inquisition initially targeted anusim and Jews, but like the Inquisitions in Europe, it also targeted crypto-Muslims, and later Hindus. The Catholic Church destroyed a significant number of the Inquisitorial records, the number of victims in the Goan Inquisition is estimated to be roughly one-third of the total figure, based on the records which remain. The presence of crypto-Judaism in India continues to be an ongoing field of academic research.\n\nCrypto-Judaism was documented chiefly in Spanish-held colonial territories in northern Mexico. Numerous conversos joined Spanish and Portuguese expeditions, believing there was economic opportunity in the new lands, and that they would have more freedom at a distance far from Iberia. Different situations developed in the early colonial period of Mexico, the frontier province of Nuevo León, the later northern frontier provinces, and the colonial experience of the Mexican Inquisition The crypto-Jewish traditions have complex histories and are typically embedded in an amalgam of syncretic Roman Catholic and Judaic traditions. In many ways resurgent Judaic practices mirrored indigenous peoples' maintaining their traditions practiced loosely under a Roman Catholic veil. In addition, Catholicism was syncretic, absorbing other traditions and creating a new creole religion.\n\nThe traditional Festival of Santa Esterica was preserved among the Conversos who migrated to the New World and is still practiced today among their descendants.\n\nSome of the Sephardic Jews expelled from Spain went to Portugal, but in 1497 that country effectively converted all remaining Jewish children, making them wards of the state unless the parents also converted. Therefore, many of the early crypto-Jewish migrants to Mexico in the early colonial days were technically first to second-generation Portuguese with Spanish roots before that. The number of such Portuguese migrants was significant enough that Spanish colonists began to use \"Portuguese\" as a synonym for \"Jewish\" for their settlers. Immigration to Mexico offered lucrative trade possibilities in a well-populated colony with nascent Spanish culture. Some migrants believed that this region would be more tolerant since the lands were overwhelmingly populated by non-Christian indigenous peoples and it was far removed from the metropole.\n\nColonial officials believed that many crypto-Jews were going to Mexico during the 16th century and complained in written documents to Spain that Spanish society in Mexico would become significantly Jewish. Officials found and condemned clandestine synagogues in Mexico City. At this point, colonial administrators instituted the Law of the Pure Blood, which prohibited migration to Mexico for New Christians (Cristiano Nuevo), i.e. anyone who could not prove to be Old Christians for at least the last three generations. In addition, the administration initiated the Mexican Inquisition to ensure the Catholic orthodoxy of all migrants to Mexico. The Mexico Inquisition was also deployed in the traditional manner to ensure orthodoxy of converted indigenous peoples. The first victims of burnings (or \"autos de fé\") of the Mexican Inquisition were indigenous converts convicted of heresy or crypto-Jews convicted of relapsing into their ancestral faith.\n\nExcept for those allowed to settle the province of Nuevo Leon under an exemption from the Blood Purity Laws, the number of conversos migrating to the New World was reduced.\n\nThe colonization of New Spain took place as a northward expansion over increasingly harsh geography, in regions that were occupied by tribes angered at the encroachment; they formed loose confederations of indigenous peoples to resist the settlers. Spain financed the expansion by exploiting mineral wealth, enslaving or forcing indigenous peoples to labor in mines. It established encomiendas for raising livestock, thereby displacing the local people. The indigenous peoples of the North-Eastern quadrant of New Spain (Nueva España) proved particularly resistant to colonial pressures. The Chichimec, Apache, and other tribes resisted conversion to Christianity, and avoided being impressed as laborers or slaves on Spanish ranches and in mines. The Spanish believed such peoples made the frontier (\"frontera\") a lawless region.\n\nLuis Carvajal y de la Cueva, a royal accountant, was a Portuguese New Christian. He received a royal charter from the Spanish Crown to settle Nuevo León, a large expanse of land in the hostile frontier. Because of the dangers and difficulties of this region, Carvajal y de la Cueva received an exemption in his charter from the usual requirement that he prove that all new settlers were \"Old Christians\" (of at least three generations) rather than recently converted Jews or Muslims. This exemption allowed people to go to Nuevo León who were legally barred from entering New Spain elsewhere. Carvajal was authorized to bring 100 soldiers and 60 laborers to New Spain; many have been documented as Crypto-Jews.\n\nWith Carvajal as governor, Monterrey was established as the center (now in the state of Nuevo León). Within a few years, some people reported to authorities in Mexico City that Jewish rites were being performed in the Northern Province and efforts to convert heathen indigenous peoples were lax. The principal economic activity of Carvajal and his associates seems to have been capturing Indians and selling them into slavery. Carvajal's Lieutenant Governor, Gaspar Castaño de Sosa, led a large expedition to New Mexico in 1591 in an effort to establish a colony. Castaño was arrested for this unauthorized expedition and sentenced to exile in the Philippines. The sentence was later reversed, but he had already been killed in the Molucca Islands when the Chinese slaves on his ship mutinied.\n\nGovernor Carvajal, his immediate family members, and others of his entourage were called to appear before the Inquisition in Mexico City. They were arrested and jailed. The governor subsequently died in jail, prior to a sentence of exile. His niece Anna Carvajal had been tortured and implicated all the family in so-called charges. They were all executed by burning at the stake for relapsing into Judaism, except for one nephew who escaped arrest.\n\nThe governor's nephews changed their surname to Lumbroso. One of these was Joseph Lumbroso, also known as Luis de Carvajal el Mozo, who is said to have circumcised himself in the desert to conform to Jewish law. He committed suicide to avoid being burned at the stake. His memoirs, letters and inquisition record were preserved and are held in the archive. Two other nephews also changed their names to Lumbroso and migrated to Italy, where they became noted rabbis.\n\nWhen Carvajal was in office, the city of Monterrey became a destination for other crypto-Jews who wanted to escape the Mexican Inquisition in the south of the territory. Thus, Nuevo León and the founding of Monterrey are significant as they attracted crypto-Jewish migrants from all parts of New Spain. They created one of the earliest Jewish-related communities in Mexico. (The Jewish communities in modern Mexico, which practice their Judaism openly, were not established until the late 19th and early 20th centuries, after considerable immigration of Ashkenazi Jews from eastern Europe, and Mizrahi Jews from Turkey and Syria.)\n\nDue to the Inquisition activities in Nuevo León, many crypto-Jewish descendants migrated to frontier colonies further west, using the trade routes passing through the towns of Sierra Madre Occidental and Chihuahua, Hermosillo and Cananea, and to the north on the trade route to Paso del Norte and Santa Fe (both cities in the colonial Santa Fe de Nuevo Mexico). Some even traveled to Alta California on the Pacific Coast.\n\nIn the late 20th century, in modern-day Southwestern United States specifically New Mexico, which was a former territory of New Spain, several Hispanos of New Mexico have stated a belief that they are descended from crypto-Jews of the colonial period. While most maintain their Roman Catholic and Christian faiths, they often cite as evidence memories of older relatives practicing Jewish traditions. Since the 1990s, the crypto-Jews of New Mexico have been extensively studied and documented by several research scholars, including Stanley M. Hordes, Janet Liebman Jacobs, Schulamith Halevy, and Seth D. Kunin, who calls them \"Hispanos\". Kunin noted that most of this group in New Mexico has not formally embraced Judaism nor joined the organized Jewish community. Though some have been sceptical, such as Folklorist Judith Neulander arguing that people could be referring to traditions of modern Ashkenazi Jews migrants and Evangelical Protestant Christians who purposely acquired and employed Jewish traditions. More recently, Evangelical Protestant Christians have opened missionary groups aimed at cultivating evangelical doctrine in Southwestern American communities where crypto-Judaism had survived. The highly influential Hordes has been charged with \"single-minded speculation based on largely ephemeral or highly ambiguous evidence\" for his conclusion that modern-day Hispanos who claim crypto-Jewish roots are heirs to an unbroken chain of transmission. Kunin responded to some of this criticism in his book \"Juggling Identities: Identity and Authenticity Among the Crypto-Jews\".\n\nIn Peru, conversos arrived at the time of the Spanish Conquest. At first, they had lived without restrictions because the Inquisition was not active there at the beginning of the Viceroyalty. With the advent of the Inquisition, New Christians began to be persecuted, and in some cases executed. The descendants of these colonial Sephardic Jewish descent converts to Christianity settled mainly in the north of the Andes and of the high jungle of Peru, where they married local women and became assimilated.\n\nIn the department of Antioquia, Colombia, as well as in the greater Paisa region, some families also hold traditions and oral accounts of Jewish descent. In this population, Y-DNA genetic analysis has shown an origin of male founders predominantly from \"southern Spain but also suggest that a fraction came from northern Iberia and that some possibly had a Sephardic origin\". Medellín has a tradition of the \"marranada\", where a pig is slaughtered, butchered and consumed on the streets of every neighborhood each Christmas. This custom has been interpreted as an annual affirmation of the rejection of Jewish law.\n\nA safe haven destination for Sephardic Conversos during the Spanish colonial was Santa Cruz de la Sierra. In 1557 many Crypto-Jews joined Ñuflo de Chávez and were among the pioneers who founded the city. During the 16th century some Crypto-Jews that faced persecution from the Inquisition and local authorities in nearby Potosí, La Paz and La Plata moved to Santa Cruz, as it was the most isolated urban settlement and because the Inquisition did not bother the Conversos there; as a frontier town it was meant to be a buffer to the Portuguese and Guaraní raids that threatened the mines of Peru. Some settled in the city of Santa Cruz and its adjacent towns, including Vallegrande, Postrervalle, Portachuelo, Terevinto, Pucarà, Bolivia, and Cotoca.\n\nSeveral of the oldest Catholic families in Santa Cruz are of Jewish ancestry on the paternal side; some practice certain traditions of Judaism. As recently as the 1920s, several families preserved seven-branched candlesticks and served dishes cooked with kosher practices. It is still customary among certain old families to light candles on Friday at sunset and to mourn the deaths of close relatives by sitting on the floor. After almost five centuries, some of the descendants of these families acknowledge Jewish ancestry, but practice Catholicism.\n\nSome Crypto-Jews established themselves in the outskirts of San José, Costa Rica in the 16th century. They passed as Catholics in public and practiced their Jewish rituals in privacy. In the town of Itzkazú (modern day Escazú), some Crypto-Jewish families did not maintain secrecy. Locals started to associate their rituals and unintelligible prayers in Hebrew with witchcraft. Since then, Escazú has been known in Costa Rican folklore as the \"city of the witches\".\n\nIn addition to these communities, Roman Catholic-professing communities descended from male Crypto-Jews are said to exist in the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico and in various other countries of South America, such as Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Venezuela, Chile, Peru and Ecuador. From these communities comes the proverb, \"Catholic by faith, Jewish by blood\".\n\n\nBecause of the hidden nature of their lives, the identities of some historical Crypto-Jews can only be guessed at by scholars. There are some notable examples of persons who are speculated by some scholars of having been Crypto-Jews, though there is as yet no consensus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6827515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6827515", "title": "Dawn Eden Goldstein", "text": "Dawn Eden Goldstein\n\nDawn Eden Goldstein is an American Roman Catholic author and journalist who was formerly a rock music historian and tabloid newspaper headline writer. Under the pen name Dawn Eden, she has also written books on topics concerning faith, sexuality, and spiritual healing.\n\nGoldstein was born to a Reform Jewish household. She is the grand-niece of poet Alma Denny.\n\nGoldstein began writing about rock music under the abbreviated name \"Dawn Eden\" in 1985 for fanzines, eventually becoming a popular-music historian, writing for \"Mojo\", Salon, \"New York Press\", and \"Billboard\", among others. In 1989 she graduated from New York University with a degree in Communications.\n\nFrom 1990 through the early 2000s, she penned liner notes for more than seventy CD reissues. Artists she interviewed include Harry Nilsson, Del Shannon, and Lesley Gore.\n\nShe spent years researching and championing the music and life of sunshine pop progenitor Curt Boettcher and wrote liner notes for several collections of his work.\n\nIn 1999, Goldstein had a \"born-again\" experience that led her to become a Protestant Christian. In 2006, she was received into the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nShe worked as a copy editor at the \"New York Post\" from early 2002 to January 2005. A headline she wrote about a toilet-bowl collapse (\"Hurt in line of doody\") won first place in the \"Brightest Headline\" category of the 2004 New York State Associated Press Awards. She was forced to leave the \"Post\" after edits she made to a story about in vitro fertilization revealed her pro-life sympathies. The firing led the \"New York Observer\" to publish a front-page profile of her by George Gurley, \"Eden in Exile.\"\n\nGoldstein was hired in April 2005 by the \"New York Daily News\" as assistant news editor of its newly relaunched National Edition. She later became deputy news editor for the newspaper's new weekly regional editions.\n\nHer first book \"The Thrill of the Chaste\" was published in December 2006; she promoted it with appearances on the Eternal Word Television Network and NBC's \"Today Show\".\n\nGoldstein left the \"Daily News\" in 2007 to move to Washington, D.C., where, in 2008, she was successfully treated for thyroid cancer.\n\nIn May 2010, she received an M.A. in theology from Dominican House of Studies after defending her master's thesis, a critique of Christopher West's presentation of Pope John Paul II's theology of the body. Three months later, after Alice von Hildebrand cited Goldstein's research in her own critique of West, Catholic News Agency made the thesis available for download.\n\nGoldstein's second book, \"My Peace I Give You: Healing Sexual Wounds with the Help of the Saints,\" was published in April 2012 by Ave Maria Press. In November 2012, on the Eternal Word Television Network television program \"The Journey Home\", she told the story of her conversion to the Catholic faith and spoke about healing from childhood sexual abuse.\n\nAfter receiving her sacred theology licentiate from the Dominican House of Studies in 2014, Goldstein briefly contributed to the religion-newswriting critique blog \"GetReligion\" and began working toward a Doctor of Sacred Theology degree at the University of St. Mary of the Lake. \"The Thrill of the Chaste (Catholic Edition),\" a revised version of her 2006 work, was issued in January 2015.\n\nHer fourth book, \"Remembering God's Mercy: Redeem the Past and Free Yourself from Painful Memories\", was published by Ave Maria Press in February 2016. She discussed the book in an interview with Kathryn Jean Lopez at \"National Review\". The book won First Place in the Inspirational category of the Association of Catholic Publishers 2017 Excellence in Publishing Awards. \n\nIn May 2016, Goldstein became the first woman in the University of St. Mary of the Lake's history to receive a Doctor of Sacred Theology degree. Around this time, after years of going under the name \"Dawn Eden,\" she reclaimed her birth surname, as reported in the \"Chicago Tribune\".\n\nIn May 2017 she was named assistant professor of dogmatic theology at Holy Apostles College and Seminary, in Cromwell, Connecticut, and began teaching during the fall 2017 semester. \n\n"}
{"id": "37675691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37675691", "title": "Dámaso Antonio Larrañaga", "text": "Dámaso Antonio Larrañaga\n\nDámaso Antonio Larrañaga (Montevideo, 10 December 1771 – 6 February 1848) was a Uruguayan priest, naturalist and botanist.\n\nHe was one of those principally responsible for the founding of the National Library of Uruguay and the National University of Uruguay.\n\nThe private Universidad Católica del Uruguay Dámaso Antonio Larrañaga (founded 1985) is named after him.\n"}
{"id": "2497423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497423", "title": "Ema (Shinto)", "text": "Ema (Shinto)\n\nIn some early Shinto and folk traditions of Japan, horses were seen to carry messages from the \"kami\", and usually used to transmit requests during droughts or famines. Horses were extremely expensive, and figures made of clay or wood have been found dating to the Nara period. The earliest text record of a substitution is from the \"Honcho bunsui\" from 1013, in which an offering of three paper horses is made at the Kitano Tenjin shrine. During the Kamakura period, the practice entered into Buddhist practice, as evidenced in painted scrolls of \"ema\" at Buddhist temples.\n\nThe depictions of objects aside from horses can be traced to either the Muromachi or Tokugawa periods, beginning with larger sized ema (named \"ōema\") but also representing new forms, such as ships. Artists of this period, such as Hokusai, began to create \"ema\" in distinct styles, and creating the objects became a professionalized craft.\n\nToday, they are mostly produced at or by the shrine or temple in which they are found. Some shrines have faced criticism for profiting from the sale of \"ema\". In 1979, two shrines dedicated to education sold \"ema\" for examination success, transforming the funds into a scholarship in 1980 after public outcry.\n\nHistorically, groups of farmers or small merchants could organize to hire a local artisan to create an \"ema\" to be donated to a shrine for a specific purpose, such as a good harvest. Archeological records suggest this could have been used to send political signals, as in the case of A Fukuoka Prefecture shrine that saw an increase in commissioned portraits depicting peaceful relations with Korea amidst tensions between the nations during the late 19th century.\n\n\"Ema\" can represent deities, such as Kannon and Jizu, but also more specific iconography depending on their intended purpose. These include depictions of a phallus or breasts for fertility prayers, or an octopus representing the desire to be cured of warts. Another example are sandals depicted on plaques for foot remedies. Another form of ema wish for \"tie-cutting.\" Whereas a man and woman standing beside a palm tree is interpreted as a wish for a long relationship, another plaque depicts nettles between the couple, wishing for divorce. Common symbolism also includes nettles placed beside an object one wishes to sever ties with. During wartime, ema depicting the same man, one in military uniform and one in civilian clothing, suggested a desire for a soldier to sever from his civilian life. For some, the same image may have been used to express a wish to avoid military service altogether.\n\nThe use of text has gradually replaced the overt use of symbolism in contemporary \"ema\". The rise of literacy has encouraged guests to write their own messages, which has dramatically decreased the use of distinct \"ema\" as a way to transmit a specific wish.\n\nAs a ritual, the \"ema\" is a means to communicate wishes to both priests and the kami. The public nature of the ema, which are displayed at shrines before their ritual burning, also serves a social function for communicating to the community that an individual has made the wish. Burning the wishes helps to \"symbolically liberate\" the spirit of the wish into the world. In some cases, however, wishes are taken from the shrine to be hung at home, though still ritually burned in special ceremonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2033116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2033116", "title": "Fair Game (Scientology)", "text": "Fair Game (Scientology)\n\nThe term Fair Game is used to describe policies and practices carried out by the Church of Scientology towards people and groups it perceives as its enemies. Founder L. Ron Hubbard established the policy in the 1950s, in response to criticism both from within and outside his organization. Individuals or groups who are \"Fair Game\" are judged to be a threat to the Church and, according to the policy, can be punished and harassed using any and all means possible. In 1968, Hubbard officially canceled use of the term \"Fair Game\" because of negative public relations it caused, although the Church's aggressive response to criticism continued.\n\nApplying the principles of Fair Game, Hubbard and his followers targeted many individuals as well as government officials and agencies, including a program of covert and illegal infiltration of the IRS and other U.S. government agencies during the 1970s. They also conducted private investigations, character assassination and legal action against the Church's critics in the media. The policy remains in effect and has been defended by the Church of Scientology as a core religious practice.\n\nStarting in the 1980s, for their major branch in Los Angeles, California, the Scientology organization largely switched from using church members in harassment campaigns to hiring private investigators, including former and current Los Angeles police officers. The reason seemed to be that this gave the church a layer of protection in case embarrassing tactics were used and made public.\n\nScientology's founder, L. Ron Hubbard, said all opposition came from what he called \"Suppressive Persons\" (SPs)— which scientologists claim are \"anti-social people who want to destroy anything that benefits humanity.\" In written policies dating from the mid-1950s, Hubbard told his followers to take a hard line against perceived opponents. In 1955 he wrote, \"The purpose of the suit is to harass and discourage rather than to win. The law can be used easily to harass, and enough harassment on somebody who is simply on the thin edge anyway, well knowing that he is not authorized, will generally be sufficient to cause his professional decease. If possible, of course, ruin him utterly\".\n\nIn his confidential \"Manual of Justice\" of 1959, Hubbard wrote \"People attack Scientology. I never forget it, always even the score.\" He advocated using private investigators to investigate critics, who had turned out to be \"members of the Communist Party or criminals, usually both. The smell of police or private detectives caused them to fly, to close down, to confess. Hire them and damn the cost when you need to.\" He said that in dealing with opponents, his followers should \"always find or manufacture enough threat against them to cause them to sue for peace. Don't ever defend. Always attack.\" He urged the use of \"black propaganda\" to \"destroy reputation or public belief in persons, companies or nations.\"\n\nThe Church has retained an aggressive policy towards those it perceives as its enemies, and argued as late as 1985 that retributive action against \"enemies of Scientology\" should be considered a Constitutionally-protected \"core practice\" of Scientology.\n\nIn 1965 Hubbard formulated the \"Fair Game Law\", which states how to deal with people who interfere with Scientology's activities. These suppressive persons could be considered \"fair game\" for retaliation:\n\nBy FAIR GAME is meant, may not be further protected by the codes and disciplines or the rights of a Scientologist. In other words, a person who attacked the Church would not be protected by the Church or granted the rights of Scientologists in good standing.\n\nIn December of that year, Hubbard reissued the policy with additional clarifications to define the scope of Fair Game. He made it clear that the policy applied to non-Scientologists as well, declaring:\nThe homes, property, places and abodes of persons who have been active in attempting to: suppress Scientology or Scientologists are all beyond any protection of Scientology Ethics, unless absolved by later Ethics or an amnesty ... this Policy Letter extends to suppressive non-Scientology wives and husbands and parents, or other family members or hostile groups or even close friends.\nIn his \"Introduction to Scientology Ethics\", published in 1968, Hubbard wrote that no Scientologist could be punished \"for any action taken against a Suppressive Person or Group during the period that person or group is 'fair game'.\"\nHe made it clear elsewhere in his writings that the policy would be applied to external organizations, including governments, that interfered with Scientology's activities. He told Scientologists:\nIf the Internal Revenue Service (in refusing the FCDC [\"Founding Church of Scientology, Washington DC\"] non-profit status) continues to act up or if the FDA does sue we can of course Comm Ev [\"Committee of Evidence\"] them and if found guilty, label and publish them as a Suppressive Group and fair game ... [N]one is fair game until he or she declares against us.\nIn a 1967 policy titled \"Penalties for Lower Conditions\", Hubbard wrote that opponents who are \"fair game\" may be \"deprived of property or injured by any means by any Scientologist without any discipline of the Scientologist. May be tricked, sued or lied to or destroyed.\"\n\nIn a policy letter dated July 21, 1968, Hubbard explicitly cancelled these penalties. The new list of \"Penalties for Lower Conditions\" now said that someone in a condition of \"Enemy\" \"(m)ay be restrained or imprisoned. May not be protected by any rules or laws of the group he sought to injure [...]. May not be trained or processed or admitted to any [Scientology organisation].\" The same list says that in a condition of \"Treason\", a person, \"May not be protected by the rights and fair practices he sought to destroy for others. May be retrained or debarred. [...] Not covered by amnesties.\" Another policy letter from October that year announces:\n\"The practice of declaring people FAIR GAME will cease. FAIR GAME may not appear on any Ethics Order. It causes bad public relations. This [policy letter] does not cancel any policy on the treatment or handling of an SP.\"The church has maintained that the Fair Game policy was rescinded in 1968, because people had misinterpreted it. Spokesmen said that Hubbard's intended meaning was merely that former members could not appeal to Scientology's legal system for support or protection against anyone who might try to trick, sue or destroy them. Sociologist Roy Wallis commented that this interpretation seemed to be \"contradicted by the words on the page, and by actions taken against those regarded as enemies of the movement.\"\n\nThe Church continued to pursue an aggressive response to external critics, especially the US Government. The doctrine of \"Fair Game\" was a central element of the Guardian's Office's operational policies. The original 1965 \"Fair Game Law\" is listed as a reference for GO staff in its confidential \"Intelligence Course\", which was later entered into evidence in a US Federal court case in 1979. During the case Church lawyers admitted that \"Fair Game\" had been practiced long after its supposed cancellation in 1968.\n\nHubbard said in a 1976 affidavit that he had never intended to authorize harassment:\n\nThere was never any attempt or intent on my part by the writing of these policies (or any others for that fact), to authorise illegal or harassment type acts against anyone.\n\nAs soon as it became apparent to me that the concept of 'Fair Game' as described above was being misinterpreted by the uninformed, to mean the granting of a license to Scientologists for acts in violation of the law and/or other standards of decency, these policies were cancelled.\nAs revised in 1991, Scientology's policy on the handling of \"suppressive persons\" states:\n\nA series of court cases in England in the 1970s saw Fair Game being strongly criticized by senior judges. The Court of Appeal of England and Wales suggested in one case that Scientology organisations were willing to harass their critics. They also described a case brought by the Church against author Russell Miller as a deliberate form of harassment. In a case where the Church of Scientology of California sought to block publication of a book quoting Scientology materials, Lord Justice Goff cited the Fair Game policy along with what he described as the Church's \"deplorable means adopted to suppress inquiry or criticism.\" He concluded that publication of the materials was in the public interest.\n\nAccording to an FDA investigation, in 1965, ex-Scientologist Charles Berner received a \"Fair Game Order\". Afterwards, Berner stated he received other life-threatening letters, \"indicating he should apply technique R2-45 to himself. This particular technique is a route whereby an individual places a 45 caliber pistol to his head and disassociates himself from his body.\"\n\nIn 1974, the Church lost a case against an ex-Scientologist named L. Gene Allard who in 1969, shortly after leaving the Church of Scientology, had been arrested on a charge of grand theft made by the Church of Scientology. The charge was dismissed \"in the interest of justice\", and Allard sued the Church for malicious prosecution. At the trial, Allard's lawyer introduced the October 1967 and October 1968 \"Fair Game\" policy statements into evidence. Allard was awarded $50,000 in compensatory damages and $250,000 in punitive damages. Attorneys acting for the Church of Scientology had argued that the Fair Game policy had been canceled, was irrelevant to the suit and had not been applied to Allard. An appellate court, while reducing the amount of punitive charges from $250,000 to $50,000, upheld the verdict against the Church, arguing that the church had been given ample opportunity \"to produce evidence that the fair-game policy had been repealed\" but had \"failed to do so\". In July 1976, the California Supreme Court refused to review the case.\n\nIn Operation Freakout, the Church of Scientology attempted to cause journalist and writer Paulette Cooper to be imprisoned, killed, driven to suicide or committed to a mental institution, as revenge for her publication in 1971 of a highly critical book, \"The Scandal of Scientology\". The Federal Bureau of Investigation discovered documentary evidence of the plot and the preceding campaign of harassment during an investigation into the Church of Scientology in 1977, eventually leading to the Church compensating Cooper in an out-of-court settlement.\n\nThe Church of Scientology of California sued the Department of Health and Social Security (DHSS) in British courts for defamation. The DHSS had suggested that Scientologists were dangerous charlatans who would worsen rather than cure mental illness. The Church demanded as part of discovery that the DHSS release letters and medical records from people who had complained about the Church. Lord Justice Stephenson declined the request, citing the Fair Game policy, which he believed still applied despite its name being cancelled. He was concerned that the documents would be used \"not for legitimate purposes of the action but for harassment of individual patients, informants and renegades named in them, not only by proceedings for defamation against them but by threats and blackmail.\"\n\nLawrence Wollersheim, a former Scientologist, successfully argued that he had been harassed and his photography business nearly destroyed as a result of Fair Game measures. These included getting Scientologist employees to resign, and Scientologist customers to boycott or refuse to pay him. The 1986 judgment by a Los Angeles jury was upheld by the California Court of Appeal in 1989. During appeals, the Church again claimed Fair Game was a \"core practice\" of Scientology and was thus constitutionally protected \"religious expression\". The court decided that the Church's campaign \"to ruin Wollersheim economically, and possibly psychologically\" should be discouraged rather than protected. Twenty years after the start of the case, the Church paid Wollersheim a judgment, with interest, that amounted to US$8,674,643.\n\nIn the March 11–16, 1981, Danish court case of \"Jakob Anderson vs The Church Of Scientology of Denmark\", ex-Guardian's Office operative Vibeke Damman testified that the Church did in fact practice Fair Game and had done so in Anderson's case, in an attempt to get Anderson committed to a psychiatric hospital.\n\nIn 1980, Scientologist and Sea Org officer Gerry Armstrong was assigned to organize some of Hubbard's personal papers as the basis for a biography of Hubbard. Omar Garrison, a non-Scientologist known to be sympathetic to Scientology, was hired to write the biography. Both Armstrong and Garrison quickly realized that the papers reflected unfavorably on Hubbard, and revealed that many of Hubbard's claimed accomplishments were exaggerations or outright fabrications. Garrison abandoned the project, and a disillusioned Armstrong and his wife left the Church, retaining copies of the embarrassing materials as insurance against the expected harassment to come.\nArmstrong was sued by the Church in 1982 for the theft of private documents. The \"Fair Game\" policy became an issue in court. Armstrong won the case, in part because the Judge ruled that Armstrong, as a Scientologist of long standing, knew that fair game was practiced, and had good reason to believe that possession of these papers would be necessary to defend himself against illegal persecution by the Church. In a scathing decision, Judge Paul Breckenridge wrote:\n\nIn addition to violating and abusing its own members' civil-rights, the organization over the years with its \"Fair Game\" doctrine has harassed and abused those persons not in the Church whom it perceives as enemies. [...] [Armstrong] was declared an enemy by the Church. He believed, reasonably, that he was subject to \"fair game.\"\n\nA child custody case in London's High Court examined the culture of Scientology to investigate the risks to children being raised within it. Stating his conclusions in a public hearing, Mr. Justice Latey read some of Scientology's internal documents into the record. Despite the alleged cancellation of Fair Game, he reported that, \"Deprival of property, injury by any means, trickery, suing, lying or destruction have been pursued throughout and to this day with the fullest possible vigour.\" As an example, he cited the case of a doctor at Harvard Medical School who at one point was regarded as the Church's \"Number One Enemy\". The Church had persecuted him by stealing his employment records from a hospital, launching frivolous lawsuits against him and tracking down his patients and neighbors. The Citizens' Commission on Human Rights, which Latey described as \"a Scientology 'front'\", made multiple complaints of misconduct against the doctor.\n\nIn 2009, Tampa Bay Times reported that after Pat Broeker left the church in 1989 and moved to Colorado, David Miscavige hired private detectives for $32,000 a month. They followed him for the next two decades to Wyoming and ten years in Czech Republic, where he went to medical school and worked as an English teacher. In 2012, Paul Marrick and Greg Arnold, the two private detectives who followed Broeker for 25 years, sued the Church of Scientology for breach of contract when the organization stopped paying them for their investigations.\n\nIn 1991, investigative journalist Richard Behar wrote \"The Thriving Cult of Greed and Power\", a \"Time\" cover story on Scientology. The acclaimed article won several awards. The Church of Scientology brought several lawsuits over the article, all of which were eventually dismissed. While investigating the story, he experienced some of Scientology's Fair Game tactics:\nI later learned, a copy of my personal credit report – with detailed information about my bank accounts, home mortgage, credit-card payments, home address and Social Security number – had been illegally retrieved from a national credit bureau called Trans Union. The sham company that received it, \"Educational Funding Services\" of Los Angeles, gave as its address a mail drop a few blocks from Scientology's headquarters. The owner of the mail drop is a private eye named Fred Wolfson, who admits that an Ingram associate retained him to retrieve credit reports on several individuals. Wolfson says he was told that Scientology's attorneys \"had judgments against these people and were trying to collect on them.\" He says now, \"These are vicious people. These are vipers.\" Ingram, through a lawyer, denies any involvement in the scam. … After that, however, an attorney subpoenaed me, while another falsely suggested that I might own shares in a company I was reporting about that had been taken over by Scientologists (he also threatened to contact the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission). A close friend in Los Angeles received a disturbing telephone call from a Scientology staff member seeking data about me – an indication that the cult may have illegally obtained my personal phone records. Two detectives contacted me, posing as a friend and a relative of a so-called cult victim, to elicit negative statements from me about Scientology. Some of my conversations with them were taped, transcribed and presented by the church in affidavits to TIME's lawyers as \"proof\" of my bias against Scientology.\n\nActress and photographer Carmen Llywelyn was introduced to the Church of Scientology through her partner (and future husband) professional skateboarder and actor Jason Lee. In 2015, Llywelyn penned an article entitled \"Why I Left Scientology\". According to her account, when she revealed to her talent manager that she had read \"A Piece of Blue Sky\", a book critical of the Church, she was labeled a Suppressive Person and shunned (or \"disconnected\") by her friends within the church. Llywelyn's manager, a member of the Church, also \"disconnected\" and allegedly convinced United Talent Agency to drop Llywelyn as a client.\n\nLlwelyn reports being subjected to a campaign of surveillance and harassment. Writes Llywelyn: \"Scientology has a sophisticated intelligence agency known as the Office of Special Affairs, which is essentially a complex system dedicated to ruining the lives of those it sees as enemies in any way possible. Those who work for the OSA do not follow the law.\"\n\nJournalist John Sweeney said of fair gaming: \"While making our BBC Panorama film \"Scientology and Me\" I have been shouted at, spied on, had my hotel invaded at midnight, denounced as a \"bigot\" by star Scientologists and been chased round the streets of Los Angeles by sinister strangers.\" Sweeney also claimed that his family and neighbours had been harassed by unidentified strangers back in the UK, including an intruder at his wedding who fled when confronted.\n\nMark C. \"Marty\" Rathbun, a former senior executive of the Church of Scientology, left the organization in 2004. A one-hour feature titled \"Scientologists at War\" was broadcast on June 17, 2013, on British Channel Four. The feature, a rare insider view of the Church of Scientology, investigated the pressure tactics used by the \"Squirrel Busters\" affiliated to the organization to discredit and silence members who leave the church. It highlighted the story of Mark Rathbun, his role in Scientology, his fall out with Scientology leader David Miscavige, his attempts to further the cause of an independent Scientology movement, his confrontations with the \"Squirrel Busters\" and the repercussions on his family life.\n\nVideographer Bert Leahy reported being paid $2,000 a week by the \"Squirrel Busters\" to help document their activities. Leahy reported that his employer had \"flat-out said our goal is to make Marty's life a living hell\".\n\nIn 2013, Mark Rathbun's wife, a non-Scientologist, filed suit against the Church of Scientology, alleging four years of harassment by the church. In October 2014, Rathbun filmed an encounter which he claimed showed three members of the church's top management as they \"ambushed\" him at Los Angeles International Airport. The church defended this activity as being protected by first amendment (religious freedom) and free speech rights. , the court has denied a Church motion to have the case dismissed under anti-SLAPP law, but the ruling Miscavage must testify in the case was overturned on appeal. After more than 32 months of litigation, Monique Rathbun dropped the lawsuit against the church, after firing her attorneys on January 2016, due to financial constraints. She filed a motion to end the legal proceedings which the state Supreme court granted on May 6, and Monique Rathbun filed for dismissal on May 10.\n\nDavid Miscavige's father, Ronald Miscavige Sr., was a longtime Scientologist who left the Church in 2012. In July 2013, Wisconsin police responding to a suspicious person call found Dwayne S. Powell outside Ronald's home. Powell was in possession of firearms and an illegal homemade silencer. Powell claimed to have received $10,000 a week, for over a year, to conduct full-time surveillance on the elder Miscavige for Scientology. Powell told police that on one occasion, he witnessed what he believed to be Ron Sr. undergoing cardiac arrest. According to Powell, after immediately reporting the perceived emergency to his superiors, he received a call for further instructions from a man who identified himself as David Miscavige. According to the police report, Powell was instructed \"to let him die and not intervene in any way.\"\n\nIn March 2015, private investigator Eric Saldarriaga pleaded guilty to the federal charge of conspiracy to commit computer hacking after he illegally gained access to at least 60 email accounts. Among those targeted were Mike Rinder, the former spokesman for the Church of Scientology, and journalist Tony Ortega. Both men had participated in the HBO documentary film \"Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief\".\n\nAn \"Ethics Order\" dating from March 6, 1968, issued by L. Ron Hubbard aboard his boat the \"Royal Scotsman\", lists twelve Scientologists who were accused of distributing altered versions of upper level materials. Hubbard writes \"They are fair game. No amnesty may ever cover them. [...] Any Sea Org member contacting them is to use Auditing Process R2-45.\". The R2-45 Auditing Process consists of shooting a person with the intent to kill them.\n\nIt later emerged that \"Fair Game\" had actually continued in use until at least 1980, despite its cancellation, and there have been frequent allegations that it has remained in force since then. During the 1970s the Guardian's Office (GO) of the Church of Scientology, headed by Hubbard's wife Mary Sue, conducted a wide-ranging and systematic series of espionage and intimidation operations against perceived enemies of Scientology. (See Operation Freakout for a noteworthy example.)\n\nAccording to an \"American Lawyer\" investigation, \"Fair Game\" tactics had been used to force the withdrawal of the presiding judge in an attempt to \"throw\" the case. As the US Government's attorneys put it,\n\n\"Defendants, through one of their attorneys, have stated that the fair game policy continued in effect well after the indictment in this case and the conviction of the first nine co-defendants. Defendants claim that the policy was abrogated by the Church's Board of Directors in late July or early August, 1980, only after the defendants' personal attack on Judge Richey.\"\n\nThe abrogation mentioned above was issued in a policy letter of 22 July 1980, \"Ethics, Cancellation of Fair Game, more about\", issued by the Boards of Directors of the Churches of Scientology. However, this cancellation was itself cancelled in a subsequent HCO Policy Letter of 8 September 1983, \"Cancellation of Issues on Suppressive Acts and PTSes\", which cancelled a number of HCOPLs on the ground that they \"were not written by the Founder [Hubbard]\". In two subsequent court cases the Church defended \"Fair Game\" as a \"core practice of Scientology\", and claimed that it was therefore protected as \"religious expression\".\n\nSince then, a number of ex-Scientologists who formerly held senior management positions in the Church have alleged that while working for the Church they saw \"Fair Game\" tactics continuing to be used. In 1994, Vicky Aznaran, who had been the Chairman of the Board of the Religious Technology Center (the Church's central management body), claimed in an affidavit that\n\nJanie Peterson, a former Scientologist, testified in a Clearwater City hearing in 1982 that while working in the Guardians Office she had conducted smear campaigns against Church opponents, sometimes using information from confidential confessional files. A lawyer for the Church denounced the hearings as a \"witch hunt\".\nThe former scientologist stated that the Fair Game policy still applied despite the cancellation of the name.\n\nIn the UK, targets of Fair Game and related harassment over the years have included ex-members, authors, journalists, broadcasters, the mental health profession, cult-monitoring groups, government and law enforcement.\n\nMaurice William Johnson was a Scientologist who resigned in June 1966 and successfully sued for his money back. He told a court that after leaving he had received over 100 abusive letters, many of them using violent language. An article in \"The Auditor\", a Scientology publication, was produced to the court, stating outright that Johnson was \"fair game\" and describing him as \"an enemy of mankind, the planets and all life.\"\n\nJon Atack, an ex-Scientologist who left in 1983, wrote the book \"A Piece of Blue Sky: Scientology, Dianetics and L. Ron Hubbard Exposed\" and the pamphlet \"The Total Freedom Trap\" as well as providing research for \"Bare-Faced Messiah\". He provided help to other members in leaving the organisation, as well as acting as an expert witness in various cases concerning Scientology. In response, Atack's home was repeatedly picketed by placard-carrying Scientologists over the course of six days. Eugene Ingram, a private investigator employed by the Church, made visits to Atack, his elderly mother and other family and friends, spreading rumours that Atack would be going to prison. Scientologists also distributed leaflets entitled \"The Truth about Jon Atack\", implying that he was a drug dealer who only criticised Scientology for money.\n\nAtack eventually went bankrupt due to the cost of defending himself against legal action from the Church. According to Baroness Sharples speaking in the House of Lords, a number of ex-Scientologists \"have been both threatened and harassed and a considerable number of them have been made bankrupt by the church.\"\n\nJournalist Paul Bracchi investigated Scientology in the mid-1990s while working at the \"Evening Argus\" in East Grinstead. He recounted the case of a Scientologist who had been accused of stealing documents from Saint Hill Manor, and was told in writing that he was a suppressive person and Fair Game. The man's wife told Bracchi, \"For months after, we had anonymous notes delivered in the post almost daily. They said, 'You bastard,' 'You're dead,' 'Nothing will save you.' It was terribly frightening.\"\n\nSandy Smith, the editor of the 2007 BBC television programme \"Panorama\", alleged that his team had been subjected to Fair Game tactics from the Church while filming the documentary \"Scientology and Me\". When the team were filming in the United States, Scientology representatives followed them and repeatedly harangued them. Unknown men also trailed the team, one even appearing at journalist John Sweeney's wedding. Sweeney later complained of being \"chased round the streets of Los Angeles by sinister strangers [...] In LA, the moment our hire car left the airport we realised we were being followed by two cars. In our hotel a weird stranger spent every breakfast listening to us.\" When the crew returned to London, Church executive Mike Rinder was sent from the United States to lobby the BBC, even camping out at their offices.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5656439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5656439", "title": "Faith community nursing", "text": "Faith community nursing\n\nFaith Community Nursing, also known as Parish Nursing, Parrish Nursing, Congregational Nursing or Church Nursing, is a movement of over 15,000 registered nurses, primarily in the United States. There are also Parish nurses in Australia, the Bahamas, Canada, England, Ghana, India, Kenya, Korea, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Palestine, Pakistan, Scotland, Singapore, South Africa, Swaziland, Ukraine, Wales, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Faith community nursing is a practice specialty that focuses on the intentional care of the spirit, promotion of an integrative model of health and prevention and minimization of illness within the context of a community of faith. The intentional integration of the practice of faith with the practice of nursing so that people can achieve wholeness in, with, and through the population which faith community nurses serve.\n\nParish nursing began in the mid-1980s in Chicago through the efforts of Rev. Dr. Granger Westberg as a reincarnation of the faith community nursing outreach done by religious orders, such as the \"Parish Deaconesses\" in Europe and America in the 1800s. Parish nursing is rooted in the Judeo-Christian tradition, and the historic practice of professional nursing, and is consistent with the basic assumptions of many faiths that we care for self and others as an expression of God's love. However, it is not only available to Christian congregations. There are Jewish Congregational Nurses, Muslim Crescent Nurses, and RNs serving in similar capacities within other faith traditions.\n\nFaith Community Nursing (FCN) is recognized as a specialty nursing practice. \"Faith Community Nursing: Scope and Standards of Practice\" was approved by the American Nurses Association in 2005 (and updated in 2012) and define the specialty as \"...the specialized practice of professional nursing that focuses on the intentional care of the spirit as part of the process of promoting holistic health and preventing or minimizing illness in a faith community.\" (American Nurses Association, 2012, Faith Community Nursing: Scope and Standards of Practice, Silver Springs, MD: Author, p1). The 16 standards of Faith Community Nursing Practice reflect the specialty's professional values and priorities and provide practice directions and the framework for practice evaluation. Each standard is measurable by a set of specific competencies that serve as evidence of minimal compliance with that standard.\n\nTo become a faith community nurse, the registered nurse must have a minimum of 2 years experience, must have a current license in the state where the faith community is located, and have completed a parish nurse foundations course for the specialty practice as recognized by the American Nurses Association. There are several different curriculum offerings for the faith community nurse which have been developed by a panel of nursing faculty. These are offered though a partnership with the International Parish Nurse Resource Center (IPNRC) at more than 130 nursing schools and health systems around the US and abroad.\n\nFaith community nurses serve in several roles, including:\n• Health advisor\n• Educator on health issues\n• Visitor of church members at home or in the hospital\n• Provider of referrals to community resources and provide assistance in obtaining needed health services\n• Developer of support groups within the church\n• Trainer and coordinator of volunteers\n• Provider of health screenings\n\nIt is important to note that faith community nurses are not expected to provide patient care in the church or at a patient's home but rather to be a source of referrals for services in the community. They coordinate existing services and supplement them with a holistic dimension of health and caring.\nA parish nurse program or faith community nurse program can operate in several different ways. Models include: 1) one church supporting its own full or part-time nurse, 2) several churches supporting one nurse, 3) a group of volunteer nurses supporting one or several churches or 4) a nurse related to a hospital or clinic who supports a church or churches as part of his or her job. Of the several thousand faith community nurses, only about 35% in the US are compensated financially for their ministry. In the United States, faith community nurses typically belong to the Health Ministries Association which is the national professional membership organization for faith community nurses. They also have available the International Parish Nurse Resource Center and the American Nurses Association, among others.\n\nThe Caribbean has joined the community of Parish Nursing and Health Care Ministry with the launching of Health Care Ministry in The Bahamas. It began with an initial course spanning a three-week period and brought together nurses from various denominations who were commissioned on 27 February 2005. Initially, the Canadian and Australian models of Parish Nursing were introduced to The Bahamas as an extension of the Pastoral Care Ministries of Diocese 2000 & Beyond, a programme of the Anglican Diocese of The Bahamas and Turks & Caicos Islands. To date, more than 60 people have been trained and actively engaged in the ministry as either Parish Nurses or Health & Wellness Carers.\n\nSince the ministry began in 2005 it has grown steadily and was known as the Anglican Diocesan Health Care Ministry [Parish Nursing] Council. However, effective 7 March 2008 the name changed to the Ecumenical Health Care Ministry Council. It is intended that there will be continued training and that the programme will spread throughout the Commonwealth of The Bahamas and the Caribbean. To this end, the ministry will be recognised by the Bahamas Christian Council and by extension the Caribbean Council of Churches (Ecumenical Health Care Ministry, Bahamas).\n\nThese organizations help to support faith community nursing and serve a wide variety of faith communities:\n\n"}
{"id": "9044513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9044513", "title": "Himavanta", "text": "Himavanta\n\nThe Himavanta (; ) is a legendary forest which surrounds the base of Mount Meru in Hindu mythology. It is said to be the home of an assortment of mythical creatures, such as \"Nāga\", \"Kinnara\", \"Apsonsi\", \"Zawgyi\" and \"Garuda\". \n\nThe mythical Nariphon tree of Buddhist mythology, often mentioned in Thai folklore, is said to grow there.\n\n"}
{"id": "42010285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42010285", "title": "Imperial examination in Chinese mythology", "text": "Imperial examination in Chinese mythology\n\nThe imperial examination was a civil service examination system in Imperial China designed to select the best potential candidates to serve as administrative officials, for the purpose of recruiting them for the state's bureaucracy. With the avowed purpose of testing and selecting candidates for merit, the examination system markedly influenced various aspects of society and culture in Imperial China, including Chinese mythology.\n\nThe imperial civil service examinations were designed as objective measures to evaluate the educational attainment and merit of the examinees, as part of the process by which to make selections and appointments to various offices within the structure of the government of the Chinese empire, or, sometimes, during periods of Chinese national disunion, of offices within the various states. During more recent historical times, successful candidates could receive the jinshi (chin-shih), and other degrees, generally followed by assignment to specific offices, with higher level degrees and competitive ranking within the degrees tending to lead to higher ranking placements in the imperial government service. The examination system developed largely in response to religious and philosophical ideas about ideal social order. Also, traditional Chinese religion and philosophy responded to concerns about the examination system. Both processes were intimately bound together with a literary system and other traditions which had a relative continuity of several thousand years. The actual examination process developed together with various related philosophical, religious, and narrative concepts to produce a distinct mythological motif.\n\nA common mythological motif provides a religious type of sacredness to later social institutions by projecting their origins back to a time when deities and culture heroes were credited with having divinely or miraculously created them, thus giving them an aura of greater-than-human qualities, and a justification for their existence and structural qualities with an implication that these are things which mere mortals should not question (as well as avoiding giving credit for their institution to a preceding rival dynasty). This applies particularly to the Chinese system of examinations to recruit government officials and to the related institutions of governmentally sponsored and controlled education.\n\nThe first instance tantamount to an idea of imperial examination is mentioned in the \"Shang shu\" (\"Yao dian\" 堯典), long before a whole bureaucracy of testing was developed. The text describes Emperor Yao's intent of examining abilities of his successor. Yao, one of the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors (traditional dates of rule approximately 2852-2070 BC), saw commencement of the Great Flood. As he grew old in age, the Emperor Yao perceived that he would not live long enough to see the end of the flood. Therefore, he began to seek a successor, someone worthy enough and capable enough to rescue the people from this great calamity. Yao did not turn to the patriarchal system of choosing one of his sons. Yao wished to find the most talented and worthy person in the kingdom. Yao offered his throne to Four Mountains, but Four Mountains declined. Instead, they recommended Shun. At the time, Shun is said to have been at home displaying filial piety. Despite this evidence of his virtue, and the recommendation of Four Mountains, Yao decided that in order to recruit a replacement for the highest of the civil service offices, that of emperor himself, it would only be prudent to instigate a series of tests. The tests included marrying Shun to his two daughters, Fairy Radiance (Ehuang) and Maiden Bloom (Nüying), to see whether Shun could maintain family harmony at home, and ended by sending him down from the mountains to the plains below where Shun had to face fierce winds, thunder, and rain during the course of some test of unexplained mystery. Candidate Shun successfully passed this series of imperial examinations and was recruited as emperor, serving, it is said, as co-emperor, until the death of Yao. Shun and Yao both became mythological cultural heroes, due, in part, to their fight against the flood, and helping the people to lead better lives. The story of how Yao chose Shun by seeking and testing for the most virtuous and meritorious person in the whole empire became a mainstay of Confucian discourse, with Yao and Shun being glorified as epitomes of virtue. A likewise pattern, glorifying merit on the expense of the family ties, is described in succession of Shun by Yu the Great. Also, in later mythology and folk religion, the stories of the examinations of the dead in Heaven or Hell show certain parallels, in the way Chinese folk religion typically depicts the non-mundane world and the world of humans to mirror each other.\n\nShun is also credited with a universal gathering of his nobles and subjecting them to imperial examination every 3 years, in order to decide about promotions, demotions, or retaining of the current status in the governance structure.\n\nDuring the later dynastic history of China, there existed a government Music Bureau (most notably during a certain during part of the Han Dynasty, during the Tang dynasty, and perhaps similarly in the Qin dynasty): this was an institution involving the setting of standards and competitive evaluations thereby. In mythology, this involves one of the motifs which provide a religious-type of sacrality to the institution. The Music Bureau, or Ministry of Music was actually not a music academy in the modern sense: its function included the collection and composition of music and poetry for royal court functions of entertainment and religious rites, but its functionality was much more. The tradition behind the \"Shijing\" poetry anthology was that the reason that poems (and presumably accompanying musical scores and choreography, now lost) were collected, polished, and brought to court for presentation to the emperor was to inform him of the thoughts, feelings, and conditions of the various peoples in different parts of the empire. That tradition that Confucius himself served as the editor-in-chief of the \"Shijing\" provided great prestige to this concept, together with several explicit comments commending the results in the Confucian classics. The Han dynasty Music Bureau was also explicitly avowed to serve a similar function. This was not the only educational function attributed to the Music Bureau: even going back to the early mythological tradition, the original Ministry of Music was founded by the demi-god Emperor Shun, in order to teach propriety and harmony to his heirs apparent. Thus, a certain moral function was built into the tradition from its origins.\n\nIn mythology, the original Ministry of Music was founded by the demi-god Emperor Shun, in order to teach propriety and harmony to his heirs apparent. Thus, the mythological foundation (sometimes considered to be the legendary historical foundation) of the Chinese educational system) and the original archetype later cited by scholar-officials responsible in historical times for public administration institutional design was told in the story of Shun, and how he arranged his government, including a Music Ministry (Wu, 255-256). The work of the Music Bureau was eventually incorporated into the testing curriculum of the imperial examination system.\n\nThe existence of the Zhou dynasty is a historically-proven fact, as are the literary phenomena associated with this dynasty. However, much of the material about it is also known to be mythological, and some remains indeterminate. The rites and records known from the Zhou era do include a prototypical imperial examination system.\n\nTraditional Chinese-source scholarship regarding ancient China typically involves a dual tradition: a historicizing tradition that results in scholarship such as K. C. Wu's, which removes the unicorns from the writings of Confucius by implying that this was merely an artifact of his final senile descent towards death, saying that when this prime example of a mythological beast appeared in the works of Confucius, it caused him to \"lay down his pen and write no more\" and that \"[h]e died two years later\" (Wu, 6); and to go on to similarly strip other mythological elements out of the ancient writings in order to provide a history of the rise of the Zhou dynasty which lacks much from the preserved accounts (that is, it preserves the historical—especially that confirmed by the oracle bones and other archeology—and rejects the embedded mythology); and, also there is the mythologizing and popular culture versions such as that the Ji family that founded the Zhou dynasty was the result of Jiang Yuan's supernatural conception of Houji or the \"Fengshen Yanyi\" version that allows the rise of Zhou to revolve around the interactions of the goddess Nüwa, a fox spirit with nine tails that is a thousand years old, a nine-headed pheasant, a jade pipa (a musical instrument capable of assuming human form), and so on. King Wen of Zhou (the name and title \"king\", \"wang\", were posthumously conferred) was also known as the Literate Duke of Zhou, and he is credited in the dual tradition as the founder of many Chinese institutions, including the \"Biyong\" academy with a teaching staff of 3 elders plus 5 various others and a system of universal recruitment into service based upon merit which involved examinations, posthumously regarded as \"imperial\" (Wu, 256).\n\nFrom a certain viewpoint, the examination system represented the most rationalistic aspect of the Confucian system. The system of testing was designed according to the principle of a society ruled by men of merit, and to achieve this by objectively measuring various candidates knowledge and intelligence. However, in actual operation, the system also aspects of religious and irrational beliefs more complex than this (Yang, C. K., 265-266). The idea of Fate is a mythological motif which had a significant role in the cultural context of the examination system involving cosmic forces which predestine certain results of human affairs: particularly that individual success or failure is subject to the will of Heaven, and that the results of taking the imperial examinations could be influenced by the intervention of various deities (Yang C. K, 265-268).\n\nZhong Kui, also spelled Chung-kuei, was a deity associated with the examination system, who achieved a major posthumous promotion during the Tang dynasty. The story is that a certain scholar took the tests, and, despite his most excellent performance, which should have won him first place, he was unfairly deprived of the first place prize by a corrupt official: in response, the scholar killed himself, the act of suicide condemning him to be a ghost. Many people afraid of traveling on roads and paths that may be haunted by evil spirits have worshiped Zhong Kui as an efficacious protective deity (Christie, 60, and picture, 58).\n\nSome individuals were discriminated against because of their names, due to a naming taboo. For example, because the Tang dynasty poet Li He's father's name sounded like the \"jin\", in \"jinshi\", he was discouraged from taking the tests (Hinton, 286). The claim was that if Li He was called a \"jinshi\", it would be against the rule of etiquette that a son not be called by his father's name.\n\nThe symbology of the imperial examinations and that of imperial appointment to high office are much the same, as would be expected from the close relationship which they share with each other, especially in late imperial times. Wolfram Eberhard (article under title \"Official\", 214-216) lists a number in his \"Dictionary of Chinese Symbols\", including eggplant (or aubergine) (茄子, qiézi), because the fruit together with its calyx looks like a man wearing a type of cap (冠, \"guān\", which is homonymous with \"guān\", meaning \"an official\") -- the caps or hats were awarded to promoted officials and so symbolic of official office (Eberhard, under \"Aubergine\"). Also, beans, or dried bean curd (\"bean curd\" referring to tofu) also were used in illustrations and other symbology to represent officialdom due to the similarity in sound between \"dòu gān\" (豆乾, dried bean curd) and \"dà guān\" (大官, high official, as Eberhard discusses under \"Bean\"). Also, Eberhard defines the combined images of the maple (楓, \"fēng\") and a monkey (猴, \"hóu\"), or a monkey and a horse (馬, \"mǎ\") as related to official government service. Also, there is the scholar (士, shì).\n\n"}
{"id": "191387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191387", "title": "Index of religion-related articles", "text": "Index of religion-related articles\n\nMany Wikipedia articles on religious topics are not yet listed on this page. If you cannot find the topic you are interested in on this page, it still may already exist; you can try to find it using the \"Search\" box. If you find that it exists, you can edit this page to add a link to it.\n\nIf you click on \"Related changes\" at the side of this page, you will see a list of the most recent changes in articles to which this page links. This page links to itself so that changes to them can be tracked by the same means.\n\n1689 Baptist Confession of Faith \n\nAbolitionism -\nAbolitionism in the United States -\nAbraham -\nAbrahamic religion -\nAccommodation -\nAcolyte -\nActs of Pilate -\nAdam and Eve -\nAeon -\nAgnosticism -\nAgnostic Theism -\nAhmadiyya -\nAhn Shi Il -\nAkhenaton -\nAlexandrian Rite -\nAll Saints -\nAlleged textual evidence for Jesus -\nAlpha course -\nAltar -\nAltar boy -\nAltar rails -\nAltar server -\nAmazing Grace -\nAmbarvalia -\nAmish -\nAnabaptist -\nAnathema -\nAnatta -\nAncestor-worship -\nAncient of Days -\nAngel -\nAngels of the zodiac -\nAnglican Communion -\nAnglican continuing churches -\nAnglican views of homosexuality -\nAnglicanism -\nAnglo-Catholicism -\nAnimism -\nAnointing -\nAnointing of the Sick -\nAntediluvian -\nAnthropology of religion -\nAnthropomorphism -\nAnti-Arab -\nAnti-Defamation League -\nAnti-Modernist oath -\nAnti-Semitism -\nAnti-Zionism -\nAntichrist -\nApatheism -\nApocrypha -\nApocatastasis -\nApostles -\nApostles' Creed -\nApostolic Pardon -\nApostolic See -\nApostolic succession -\nMarian apparition -\nAra Pacis -\nArab anti-semitism -\nArathi -\nArchbishop -\nArguments against the existence of God -\nArguments for the existence of God -\nArianism -\nArminianism -\nArul Nool -\nÁsatrú -\nAscension of Jesus Christ -\nAscetic -\nAsh Wednesday -\nAsherah -\nAshkenazi -\nAsmodai -\nAssumption of Mary -\nAstrology -\nAten -\nAthanasian Creed -\nAtheism -\nAtonement -\nAugur -\nAugustinians -\nAuspice -\nAutocephaly -\nAyyavazhi -\nAyyavazhi mythology -\nAzazel -\nAztec mythology \n\nBaal teshuva -\nBaal -\nBáb -\nBabylonian calendar -\nBackward message -\nBahá'í calendar -\nBahá'í Faith -\nBahá'u'lláh -\nBakkah -\nBalaam -\nBalam (demon) -\nBalor -\nBaptism -\nBaptism for the dead -\nBaptism of the Holy Spirit -\nBar mitzvah and Bat mitzvah -\nBeatific vision -\nBeast -\nBeelzebub -\nRobert Bellarmine -\nBenedictine -\nBhakti -\nBhakti movement -\nBible -\nThe Bible and history -\nBible translations -\nBiblical canon -\nBiblical inerrancy -\nJesus in the Christian Bible -\nBiblical maximalism -\nBiblical poetry -\nBiblical Sabbath -\nBinding of Isaac -\nBioethics -\nBishops' Bible -\nBishop -\nBlack Madonna -\nBlessed Sacrament -\nBlessed Virgin Mary -\nBlood libel -\nB'nai Noach -\nBodhisattva -\nBodhi -\nBook of Mormon -\nBooks of the Bible -\nBorn again -\nBrahma -\nBrahman -\nBrahmin -\nBrahma Kumaris -\nBrethren of the Common Life -\nBreviary -\nBrit milah -\nBuddha-nature -\nBuddhism -\nBusiness ethics \n\nThomas Cajetan -\nCanadian Unitarian Council -\nCalendar of saints -\nCalendar -\nCalvinism -\nCambridge Declaration -\nCandomblé -\nCanon (priest) -\nCanon law -\nCanons of Dort -\nCantor (church) -\nCardinal (Catholicism) -\nCarmelites -\nCarmen Saliare -\nCatechism -\nCatechism of the Catholic Church -\nCathedral -\nCathedral architecture -\nCatholic Apostolic Church -\nCatholic Church -\nCatholic Church against war on Iraq -\nCatholic Communion -\nCatholic King -\nCatholic ministers -\nSacraments (Catholic Church) -\nCatholicism -\nChalcedonian Creed -\nCharismatic -\nChayot -\nCherub -\nChicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy -\nChild sacrifice -\nChinese house church -\nChosen people -\nChrismation -\nChristian anti-Semitism -\nChristian anarchism -\nChristian eschatology -\nChristian fundamentalism -\nChristian–Jewish reconciliation -\nChristian Identity -\nChristian mythology -\nChristian Peacemaker Teams -\nChristian Science -\nChristian theological controversy -\nChristian tradition -\nChristianity -\nChristmas -\nChristmas Eve -\nChristology -\nChurch -\nChurch of England -\nChurch militant and church triumphant -\nChurch planting -\nCivil religion -\nClergy -\nClerical celibacy -\nClosed communion -\nCollege of Cardinals -\nCollege of Pontiffs -\nCommunion -\nCommunion of Saints -\nComparative religion -\nChristianity and Judaism -\nComparing Eastern and Western religious traditions -\nConcordat -\nConditional baptism -\nConfession (religion) -\nConfirmation (sacrament) -\nConfucianism -\nCongregation of Christian Brothers -\nCongregationalism -\nCongregationalist church -\nCongregationalist polity -\nConsecration -\nConservative Judaism -\nContinuous revelation -\nConversational intolerance -\nCosmology -\nCounter-Reformation -\nA Course In Miracles -\nCovenant (religion) -\nCovenanter -\nCovenant theology -\nCreationism -\nCreed -\nCriticism of religion -\nCrucifixion -\nCrusade -\nCrypto-Judaism -\nCult -\nCult (religion) -\nCurse \n\nDabru Emet -\nDajjal -\nDay of the Vow -\nDeacon -\nDead Sea scrolls -\nDeath worship -\nDeism -\nDemigod -\nDemonology -\nDemon -\nDeuterocanonical books -\nDeuteronomy -\nDevil -\nDevil's Advocate -\nDharma -\nDhimmi -\nDies Irae -\nDiocese -\nDiscordianism -\nDispensationalism -\nDivination -\nDivine grace -\nDivine healing -\nDivine Liturgy -\nDivine providence -\nDivine simplicity -\nDoctor of the Church -\nDoctrine -\nDoctrine and Covenants -\nDocumentary hypothesis -\nDogmatic definition -\nDogma -\nDominican Order -\nDominion Theology -\nDominus Iesus -\nDouai Bible -\nDruidry \n\nEarly Christianity -\nEarly Muslim philosophy -\nEarth religion -\nEast–West Schism -\nEaster -\nEastern Christianity -\nEastern Orthodox Church organization -\nEastern Orthodoxy -\nEastern Rite Catholic Churches -\nEcclesia (sociology of religion) -\nEcclesial communities contrasted -\nEcclesiology -\nEckankar -\nEconomics of religion -\nEconomy (Eastern Orthodoxy) -\nEcumenical -\nEcumenical council -\nEcumenism -\nMary Baker Eddy -\nJonathan Edwards (theology) -\nEgyptian mythology -\nEmanationism -\nEmergency baptism -\nEmerging Church -\nThe Enlightenment -\nEnd of the world -\nEnd times -\nEpiclesis -\nEpiphany -\nEpiscopacy -\nEpiscopalian -\nEpiscopal Church in the United States of America -\nEpiscopal Church in Jerusalem and the Middle East -\nEpiscopal Church of Scotland -\nEpiscopal see -\nEritrean Orthodox Church -\nEsbat -\nEschatology -\nEsoteric cosmology -\nEternal Marriage -\nEternity -\nEthics -\nEucharist -\nEvangelicalism -\nEvolution -\nEx cathedra -\nExcommunication -\nBook of Exodus -\nExorcism -\nExpository preaching -\nExtra Ecclesiam Nulla Salus \n\nFaith -\nFall -\nFallen angel -\nFree Christians (Britain) -\nFeast of the Lemures -\nFetishism -\nFideism -\nFilioque clause -\nFirst Vatican Council -\nFive Pillars of Islam -\nFive solas -\nFleur de lys -\nFlirty Fishing -\nFlying Spaghetti Monster -\nFolk religion -\nForgiveness -\nFratres Arvales -\nFree Church of Scotland -\nFree will -\nFull communion -\nFull Gospel -\nFundamentalism -\nFuneral \n\nGabriel -\nGautama Buddha -\nGenesis -\nGeneva Bible -\nGenie -\nGersonides -\nGlossolalia -\nGnosticism -\nGod -\nGod and gender -\nGoddess worship -\nGoddess -\nGodhead (Christianity) -\nGog -\n\"The Golden Bough\" -\nGospel of John -\nGospel of Luke -\nGospel of Mark -\nGospel of Matthew -\nGrace -\nGreat Apostasy -\nGreat Bible -\nGreek mythology -\nGreek Orthodox Church -\nGreek religion -\nGregorian calendar -\nGregorian chant -\nGuru \n\nHagiography -\nHail Mary -\nHaitian Vodou -\nHalakha -\nHaredi Judaism -\nHarran -\nHarrowing of Hell -\nHaruspex -\nHasidim -\nHasidism -\nHeaven -\nHebrew Bible -\nHebrew Calendar -\nHebrew -\nHell -\nHellenic polytheism -\nHellenistic religion -\nHenotheism -\nHerem (censure) -\nHerem (priestly gift) -\nHerem (war or property) -\nHeresy -\nHermoea -\nHeterodoxy -\nHigh Sabbaths -\nHinduism -\nHiram Abiff -\nHistorical episcopate -\nHistory of ancient Israel and Judah -\nHistory of Christianity -\nHistory of the English Bible -\nHistory of Unfulfilled Prophecy by Christians -\nHistory of Islam -\nHolidays -\nHolocaust theology -\nHolocaust -\nHoly card -\nHoly Day of Obligation -\nHoly Inquisition -\nHoly Living and Holy Dying -\nHoly Orders -\nHoly Prepuce -\nHoly See -\nHoly Spirit -\nHoly Synod -\nHoly water -\nHomeric hymns -\nHomosexuality and morality -\nHomosexuality -\nHouse church -\nHuman sacrifice -\nHumanism -\nHymn -\nHyper-Calvinism -\n\nIcon -\nIconoclasm -\nIconography -\nIconostasis -\nIdolatry -\nIfá -\nIguvine Tables -\nImam -\nImpiety -\nImperial cult -\nIncarnation -\nIndulgence -\nInfidel -\nInquisition -\nInstitute of the Brothers of the Christian Schools -\nIntegral thought -\nIntelligent design -\nIntercommunion -\nInvolution (esoterism) -\nIrreligion -\nIrresistible grace -\nIsaac -\nIsaiah -\nIshta-Deva -\nIshmael -\nIslam -\nIslam and anti-Semitism -\nIslam and Judaism -\nIslamic calendar -\nIslamic view of Jesus -\nIslamism -\nIsrael \n\nJacob -\nJainism -\nJames the Just -\nJehovah's Witnesses -\nJehovah's Witnesses and the Holocaust -\nJerusalem -\nJesus as Christ and Messiah -\nJesus -\nJew -\nJewish eschatology -\nJewish fundamentalism -\nJewish history timeline -\nJewish holidays -\nJewish principles of faith -\nJewish services -\nJewish Theological Seminary of America -\nJewish views on marriage -\nJewish views on religious pluralism -\nJews for Jesus -\nJihad -\nJubilee (Biblical) -\nJubilee (Christian) -\nJudaism -\nJumu'ah -\nJustification (theology) -\n\nKabbalah -\nKairos -\nKairos retreat -\nKaraite Judaism -\nKarma -\nKashrut -\nKenosis -\nKing James Version of the Bible -\nKing-James-Only Movement -\nKingdom of Israel (Samaria) -\nKohen -\nKollel -\nKorban -\nKrishna \n\nLaity -\nLast Judgment -\nLatin Rite -\nLatria -\nLatrocinium -\nLatter Rain Movement -\nLay presidency -\nLay Reader -\nLector -\nLegalism (theology) -\nLeviathan -\nLeviticus -\nLiberal Judaism -\nLight Upon Light -\nLilith -\nLimited atonement -\nLiturgical colours -\nLiturgical hymn -\nLiturgical Year -\nLiturgy -\nLouisiana Voodoo -\nLuciferianism -\nLucifer -\nLupercalia -\nLutheran Church \n\nMagic (paranormal) -\nMagic (religion) -\nMagnificat -\nMagus -\nMahayana -\nMaimonides -\nMajor orders -\nMandaeanism -\nManichaeism -\nMarcionism -\nMarian apparitions -\nMaronite -\nMarriage -\nMary, the mother of Jesus -\nMasoretic text -\nMasorti -\nMass (liturgy) -\nMass (music) -\nMassacre of the Innocents -\nCotton Mather -\nIncrease Mather -\nMeditation -\nMeforshim -\nMegachurch -\nMephistopheles -\nMerkabah -\nMessiah -\nMessianic Judaism -\nMethodism -\nMethods of divination -\nMetrical psalter -\nMetropolitan bishop -\nMichael (archangel) -\nMidrash -\nMikvah -\nMillennialism -\nMillerites -\nMinor orders -\nMinority religion -\nMiracle -\nMishnah -\nMithraism -\nMitzvah -\nModern Orthodox Judaism -\nMoloch -\nMonastery -\nMonasticism -\nMonk -\nMonophysitism -\nMonotheism -\nMoral community -\nMoravian Church -\nMoriah -\nMormonism -\nEdgardo Mortara -\nMoses -\nMosque -\nMount Sinai -\nMourning -\nMuhammad -\nMultisensory worship -\nMun (religion) - \nMussar Movement -\nMysticism -\nMyths and legends surrounding the Papacy \n\nNasheed -\nNatural theology -\nThe nature of God in Western theology -\nNeo-druidism -\nNeopaganism -\nNestorianism -\nNew Age -\nNew moon -\nNew Testament -\nNicene Creed -\nNirvana (concept) -\nNirvana (Jainism) -\nNontheistic religions -\nNontrinitarianism -\nNorse mythology -\nNuminous -\nNumber of the Beast (numerology) \n\n\"Oahspe\" -\nOccult -\nOld English Bible translations -\nOld Testament -\nOmen -\nOmnipotence -\nOmniscience -\n\"One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church\" -\nOpus Dei -\nOrder of the Solar Temple -\nOrganizational structure of Jehovah's Witnesses -\nOriental Orthodoxy -\nOriginal sin -\nOrthodoxy -\nOrthodox Bahá'í Faith -\nOrthodox Christian Mission Center -\nOrthodox Judaism \n\nPaganism -\nPali canon -\nPali -\nPanentheism -\nPange Lingua -\nPantheism -\nPapal abdication -\nPapal bull -\nPapal Coronation -\nPapal election -\nPapal Infallibility -\nPapal States -\nPapal Tiara -\nParadise -\nParentalia -\nParousia -\nParticular church -\nPassover -\nPatriarch -\nPatron god -\nPatron saint -\nPaul of Tarsus -\nPauline Christianity -\nPeace -\nPearl of Great Price -\nPelagianism -\nPentateuch -\nPentecostalism -\nPeople of the Book -\nPermanent deacon -\nPerpetual virginity of Mary -\nPersecution of Christians -\nPersian religions -\nPeter -\nPharisee -\nPhilistine -\nPhilosophy of religion -\nPhronema -\nPietism -\nPilgrim's Progress -\nPilgrimage -\nPlural Marriage (Mormonism) -\nPolitical religion -\nPolytheism -\nPolytheistic reconstructionism -\nPontiff -\nPontifex Maximus -\nPope -\nPort-Royal -\nPosek -\nPow-wow (folk magic) -\nPractices of Jehovah's Witnesses -\nPrakrit -\nPraxis (Orthodox) -\nPrayer -\nPrayer for the dead -\nPredestination -\nPre-existence -\nPresbyterian -\nPresbyterian Church -\nPresbytery (sacred architecture) -\nPrevenient grace -\nPriesthood (Mormonism) -\nPriesthood of all believers -\nPriest -\nPrimacy of the Roman Pontiff -\nPrimate (bishop) -\nProbabilism -\nThe problem of evil -\nThe problem of Hell -\nProcess theology -\nProjects working for peace among Israelis and Arabs -\nProphet -\nProphets of Islam -\nProtestantism -\nProtestant Reformation -\nProto-Indo-European religion -\nPsalm -\nPsalms of Asaph -\nPseudoscience -\nPsilanthropism -\nPurgatory -\nPurim -\nPuritan -\nPythagoreanism \n\nQuietism (Christian philosophy) -\nQur'an \n\nRabbi -\nRabbinical Assembly -\nRabbinic literature -\nRaëlism -\nRaja Yoga -\nRama -\nRamadan -\nRaphael (angel) -\nRastafari movement -\nRationalism -\nRebbe -\nRebirth -\nReconstructionist Judaism -\nRed Sea -\nReform Judaism -\nReincarnation -\nReligion -\nReligion and abortion -\nReligion and homosexuality -\nReligion in Ancient Rome -\nReligion in Canada -\nReligion in Germany -\nReligion in India -\nReligion in the United States -\n\nReligious aspects of marriage -\nReligious conversion -\nReligious cosmology -\nReligious denomination -\nReligious ecstasy -\nReligious Humanism -\nReligious intolerance -\nReligious persecution -\nReligious pluralism -\nReligious studies -\nRepentance -\nRequiem -\nResponsa -\nRestorationism (Christian primitivism) -\nRestoration (Mormonism) -\nResurrection -\nResurrection of Jesus -\nRevelation -\nReverence -\nRhema -\nRHEMA Bible Training Center -\nRighteousness -\nRole of women in Judaism -\nRoman Catholic Church sex abuse allegations -\nRomanian Orthodox Church -\nRoman mythology -\nRomans road -\nRosh Hashanah \n\nSabbath economics -\nSabbath in Christianity -\nSabbath in seventh-day churches -\nSabbath mode -\nSabbath School -\nSabellianism -\nSabians -\nSacrament -\nSacramental character -\nSacramental index -\nSacred (comparative religion) -\nSacred Heart -\nSacred king -\nSacred language -\nSacred text -\nSacred Tradition -\nSacrifice -\nSadducee -\nSai Baba -\nSadducee -\nSaint -\nSaints, calendar of -\nSalvation -\nSamael -\nSanctification -\nSanskrit -\nSarah -\nSatanism -\nSatan -\nSathya Sai Baba -\nSaturday -\nSaturnalia -\nScapegoat -\nScientology In Australia -\nScofield Reference Bible -\nSeal of the Prophets -\nSecond Coming -\nSecond Great Awakening -\nSecond Vatican Council -\nSecondary conversion -\nSect -\nSecular Humanism -\nSeder -\nSede vacante -\nSedevacantism -\nSeir -\nSephardic Judaism -\nSephardi -\nSeptuagint -\nSeraph -\nSermon on the Mount -\nSermon -\nSeven-day week -\nShabbat -\nShabbat (Talmud) -\nShabbaton -\nShabbos goy -\nShamanism -\nShappatum -\nSharia -\nShavuot -\nShiite -\nShinto -\nShirk (idolatry) -\nShiva -\nShmita -\nShofar -\nShrine -\nShrines to the Virgin Mary -\nShunning -\nSiddur -\nSikhism -\nSign of the cross -\nSigns and Wonders -\nSimony -\nSin -\nSira -\nSkepticism -\nSky Father -\nSlain in the Spirit -\nSmith, Joseph, Jr. -\nSocianism -\nSocinianism -\nSodom and Gomorrah -\nSol Invictus -\nSolar Deity -\nSoul sleep -\nSpirit -\nSpiritism -\nSpiritual (music) -\nSpiritual possession -\nSpiritualism (religious movement) -\nSpiritualism -\nSpirituality -\nState religion -\nStations of the Cross -\nSuburbicarian diocese -\nSuccubus -\nSufi -\nSuitheism -\nSukkot -\nSumerian mythology -\nSunnah -\nSunni -\nSupernatural -\nSupersessionism -\nSuperstition -\nSupreme Pontiff -\nSurat Shabd Yoga -\nSutra -\nSydney Anglicans -\nSyllabus of Errors -\nSynagogue -\nSyncretism \n\nTathagatagarbha doctrine -\nTallit -\nTalmud -\nTanakh -\nTaoism -\nTawhid -\nTefillin -\nTemple in Jerusalem -\nTemple (Latter Day Saints) -\nTemple -\nTen Commandments -\nThe Ten Gurus of Sikhism -\nTerritorial Spirits -\nTetragrammaton -\nThai lunar calendar -\nThealogy -\nTheism -\nTheodicy -\nTheology -\nTheoria -\nTheosis -\nTheosophy -\nTheosophy (Boehmian) -\nTheosophy (Blavatskian) -\nTheravada -\nThird Wave of the Holy Spirit -\nThirty-Nine Articles -\nThree-Chapter Controversy -\nThree Wise Men -\nTibetan Buddhism -\nTipitaka -\nTorah study -\nTorah -\nTosefta -\nTotal depravity -\nTotemism -\nToward the Light -\nTract (liturgy) -\nTranscendentalism -\nTransfiguration -\nTransubstantiation -\nTranslation (religion) -\nTrimurti -\nTrinitarian formula -\nTrinitarianism -\nTrinity -\nTripitaka -\nTutelary \n\nUmbanda -\nUnitarianism -\nUnitarian Universalism -\nUnitarian Universalist Association -\nUnited Synagogue of Conservative Judaism -\nUniversalism -\nUniversi Dominici gregis -\nUpanishad -\nUposatha -\nThe Urantia Book -\nUriel -\nUtopianism \n\nVajrayana -\n\"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" -\nVatican City -\nVatican Hill -\nVatican II -\nVeneration -\nVespers -\nVetus Latina -\nVibhuti -\nVineyard Movement -\nViruses of the Mind -\nVishnu -\nVow of celibacy -\nVulgate \n\nWahhabi -\nWeek -\nCharles Wesley -\nJohn Wesley -\nWest African Vodun -\nWestern Orthodoxy -\nWestern Schism -\nWestern Wall -\nWestminster Confession of Faith -\nWestminster Larger Catechism -\nWestminster Shorter Catechism -\nWheel of the Year -\nEllen G. White -\n\"The White Goddess\" -\nWhore of Babylon -\nWicca -\nRoger Williams -\nJohn Wimber -\nWitches' Sabbath -\nWitch of Endor -\nWomen -\nWord of Knowledge -\nWorship -\nWorship dance \n\nXmas \n\nYahweh -\nYeshiva University -\nYeshiva -\nYeshu -\nYeshua (name) -\nYom Kippur -\nYoruba mythology -\nBrigham Young -\n\nZen -\nZionism -\nZohar -\nZoroaster -\nZoroastrianism \n\n"}
{"id": "1817874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817874", "title": "Integral yoga", "text": "Integral yoga\n\nIntegral yoga, also called supramental yoga, is the yoga-based philosophy and practice of Sri Aurobindo and \"The Mother\" (Mirra Alfassa). Integral yoga finds all life conscious or subconscious a yoga, defines the term yoga as a methodised effort towards self-perfection by the expression of the secret potentialities latent in the being and highest condition of victory in that effort - a union of the human individual with the universal and transcendent existence which is seen partially as expressions in humans and in the cosmos. As a yoga idea, that Spirit manifests itself in a process of involution. The reverse process of evolution is driven toward a complete manifestation of spirit.\n\nAccording to Sri Aurobindo, the current status of human evolution is an intermediate stage in the evolution of being, which is on its way to the unfolding of the spirit, and the self-revelation of divinity in all things. Yoga is a rapid and concentrated evolution of being, which can take effect in one life-time, while unassisted natural evolution would take many centuries or many births. Aurobindo suggests a grand program called sapta chatushtaya (seven quadrates) to aid this evolution.\n\nSri Aurobindo finds that there are two extreme views of life, The materialists & The Ascetics \nThe Materialists : He finds materialists would only accept the existence of matter or force and deny anything else, & would in their argument find anything which is not knowable (that which would escape once thought and speech) as inert or a passive, silent Atman, an illusion or a hallucination, this affirmation by the materialists is based on the association of the real with the materially perceptible, and becomes the basis of his assumption on all his arguments. Which Sri Aurobindo finds cannot give an impartial reasoning. Due to the above notion the materialists would refuse any further inquiry, thus never having a satisfied understanding. He recommends that the only way to reconcile the materialistic mind with the other truth would be to cross over the layers of inner consciousness either by objective analysis of life & mind as to matter or by subjective synthesis and illumination, arrive at a state of the ultimate unity without denying the energy of the expressing multiplicity of the universe.\nHe finds that the current World is in a state of rationalistic materialism, & finds that this rationalistic movement has served human kind in a positive way, by purifying intellect from the dogmas, superstitions clearing path to a better advancement of Humanity. Sri Aurobindo finds that root of this Scientific movement to be a search for knowledge, due to this root the movement would not come to a halt and its progress is a sure sign that it would carry forward in reaching the other part of knowledge which vedantins had found in a different way.\n\nThe Ascetics : would only accept spirit/Atman and terming the remaining as mechanical unintelligent substance or energy, leading to believing the reality to be an illusion of senses. Sri Aurobindo finds when the mind retracts from external activities and has experience of silence, a powerful convincing experience that only the pure self or non-being is real leads them to disregard the outer world. \nhe finds this as an revolt of spirit on matter which was made famous by Buddhism affirming that it is impossible to find a solution in the world which is termed to be dual in nature, but to escape into Nirvana, Brahmaloka or Goloka as beyond. He finds that this approach is slowly coming to an end and had its importance as the part of evolution, but is quite different than what was present in Vedic period.\n\nSri Aurobindo finds that a compromise between the two approaches would be a bargain & would not be a true reconciliation, but only a unified Spirit & Matter would be a basis for Integral yoga's path to understanding of reality. He finds the non being at one end which seems opposite to the manifested universe are not opposites which would deny other's existence, but rather are different states of reality with opposite affirmations. Sri Aurobindo finds that the highest experience of the Reality to be a conscious Existence, a supreme Intelligence, Force and a self-existent Bliss; He finds a liberated intelligence & experience would bring about this highest understanding of the reality.\n\nIntegral yoga rejects notion of reality being a purposeless illusion or a result of an accident nor a deceptive trick of mind but an existence aware of itself, realises itself in form & unfolds itself in the individual, an existence which already exists as an all-revealing & all-guiding truth of things first movements would be without the knowledge of its conscious mind but a general movement of nature & later consciously by a progressive awakening & self enlargement, to his divine ascension & finds this ascent of life to divine life is the human journey and his prime purpose of life. \n\nInvolution is the extension of Spirit, the Absolute, to create a universe of separate forms. Being manifests itself as a multiplicity of forms, meanwhile becoming lost in the inconscience of matter. The first manifestation of Spirit in the process of involution is as \"Satchitananda\", and then as Supermind, the intermediate link between the higher (Spirit) and lower (matter, life, and mind) nature.\n\nAccording to Aurobindo the world is a differentiated unity. It is a manifold oneness, that generates an infinite variety of lifeforms and substances. The lifeforms and substances are stretched out on a wide range, from physical matter to a pure form of spiritual being, where the subject becomes fully aware of itself as spirit: \n\nAbove Mind proper lie various higher levels of Mind, which ascend toward Spirit.\n\nThrough evolution Spirit rediscoveres itself as Spirit. Evolution follows a developmental trajectory from the original inconscience of matter into life, to mind, and then to spiritualized mind, culminating in The Supermind or Truth Consciousness. Evolution is teleological, since the developing entity contains within itself already the totality toward which it develops. It is not a mechanistic or deterministic teleology, but a \"manifestation of all the possibilities inherent in the total movement.\"\n\nThe goal of Integral yoga is to become aware of the Divine, to integrate the physical, mental and spiritual aspects of ourselves, and to manifest the Divine at earth. According to Sri Aurobindo, all life is Yoga, while Yoga as a sadhana is a methodised effort towards self-perfection, which brings to expression the latent, hidden potentialities of being. Success in this effort unifies the human individual with the universal and transcendental Existence. Integral yoga reunites \"the infinite in the finite, the timeless in the temporal and the transcendent with the immanent.\n\nSri Aurobindo discerns three types of being, namely the Outer being, the Inner being, and the Psychic Being.\n\nThe Outer Being includes the physical, vital and mental levels of Being, which characterises our everyday consciousness and experience. It includes several levels of the subconscient: a mental subconscient, a vital subconscient, and a physical subconscient, down to the material Inconscient. Integral Yoga involves going beyond this surface consciousness to the larger life of the Inner Being, which is more open to spiritual realisation.\n\nThe Inner Being, or Subliminal, includes the inner realms or aspects of the physical, vital and mental being. They have a larger, subtler, freer consciousness than that of the everyday consciousness. Its realisation is essential for any higher spiritual realisation.\n\nThe Inner Being is also transitional between the surface or Outer Being and the Psychic or Inmost Being. By doing yoga practice (sadhana), the inner consciousness is being opened, and life turns away from the outward to the inward. The inner consciousness becomes more real than the outer consciousness, and becomes a peace, happiness and closeness to the Divine.\n\nThe Psychic Being is Sri Aurobindo's term for the Personal Evolving Soul, the principle of Divine spirit in every individual. The Psychic is the \"Innermost Being\", the permanent being in us that stands behind and supports the physical, vital and mental principles. It \"uses mind, life and body as its instruments,\" undergoing their fate yet also transcending them.\n\nIn Integral Yoga the goal is to move inward and discover the Psychic Being, which then can bring about a transformation of the outer nature. This transformation of the outer being or ego by the Psychic is called Psychicisation; it is one of the three necessary stages in the realisation of the Supramental consciousness. This Psychic transformation is the decisive movement that enables a never-ending progress in life, through the power of connecting to one's inner spirit or Divine Essence. The Psychic begins its evolution completely veiled and hidden, but grows through successive lifetimes, and gradually exerts a greater influence, taking on the role of spiritual Guide.\n\nCentral Being refers to the transcendent and eternal spirit, as opposed to the incarnate and evolving Soul, which he calls the Psychic Being. Sometimes it refers to both of them together as the essential spiritual core of the being. The Central Being \"presides over the different births one after the other but is itself unborn\" (ibid p. 269). This transcendent Central Being or Spirit is also designated as the Jiva or Jivatman, although the meaning of these terms in Sri Aurobindo's philosophy differs greatly from that of much of conventional Vedanta (especially Advaita Vedanta)\n\nThe levels of being ascend from the inconscient to the Supermind.\n\nInconscient Matter is the lowest level of involution. Spirit is still present in the inconscient: \"The Inconscient is the Superconscient's sleep.\" The Inconscient is also the instrument of the Superconsciousness which has created the Universe. According to Satprem, the Inconscient lies at the bottom of the physical subconscient, and \"life emerged [...] at the border between the material inconscient and the physical consciousness [...] in our body.\n\nThe physical, vital and mental levels of being contain both a subconscient and a subtle or subliminal part.\n\nThe subconscient parts are the submerged parts. It contains \"obstinate samskaras, impressions, associations, fixed notions, habitual reactions formed by the past.\" According to Satprem, there are several levels of the subconscient, corresponding with the different levels of our being: a mental subconscient, a vital subconscient, and a physical subconscient, down to the material Inconscient.\n\nAccording to Aurobindo, the body is partly a creation of the inconscient or subconscient. According to The Mother, the ordinary, false consciousness, which is common to material body-consciousness, is derived from the subconscient and the inconscient. According to Aurobindo, the outer being depends on the subconscient, which hinders the spiritual progress. Only by living in the inner being can this obstacle be overcome.\n\nAccording to Sharma, the subconscient is \"the inconscient in the proces of becoming conscient.\" It is a submerged part of the personality without waking consciousness, but which does receive impressions, and influences the conscious mind. According to Sharma, it includes the unconscious mind which is described by psychologists like Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung, though it includes much more than the unconscious of (Freudian) psychology.\n\nThe subtle or subliminal is the subtle, higher counterpart of the subconscient. According to Sharma, \"it has an inner mind, an inner vital being, and an inner subtle physical being, wider than man's consciousness.\" It can directly experience the Universal, and \"it is the source of inspirations, intuitions, ideas, will [...] as well as [...] telepathy [and] clearvoyance.\"\n\nThe gross body commonly referred to in yoga constitutes mainly of two parts the material physical body (annakosha) and the nervous system normally refer to as vital vehicle (Prana kosha) in Integral yoga.\n\nThe Physical level refers to both the physical body and the body's consciousness. The body is just as conscious as the vital and mental parts of the being, only it is a different type of consciousness. The Physical not only shades upwards to higher ontological levels, but also downwards into the Subconscient.\n\nThe Subtle physical is Sri Aurobindo's term for a subtler aspect of the physical nature. This has many qualities not found in the gross physical nature. In \"The Agenda\", The Mother often refers to it. It might be compared to the etheric body and plane, or even the astral body and plane. The term \"subtle physical\" is used to distinguish it from gross (\"sthula\") or outer material physical.\n\nThe Vital level of the being refers to the life force, but also to the various passions, desires, feelings, emotions, affects, compulsions, and likes and dislikes. These strongly determine human motivation and action through desire and enthusiasm.\n\nUnlike Western psychology, in which mind, emotions, instincts, and consciousness are all lumped together, Sri Aurobindo strongly distinguishes between the \"Vital\" and the \"Mental\" faculties.\n\nIn addition to the individual Vital faculty, Sri Aurobindo refers to a Vital Plane or Vital world, which would seem to be partly equivalent to the Astral Plane of popular occultism and New Age thought.\n\nMind proper is the conceptual and cognitive mind. Mind is a subordinate process of the Supermind. It is the intermediary stage between the Divine and the mundane life. It works by measuring and dividing reality, and has lost sight of the Divine. It is the seat of ignorance, yet it is still capable of an upward ascent toward the Divine.\n\nUnlike Western psychology, in which mind and consciousness are considered the same, Sri Aurobindo strongly distinguishes between the \"Mental\" and the \"Vital\" (emotional) faculties, as well as between Mind and pure Consciousness. Sri Aurobindo in part bases his concept of the Mental on his reading of the Taittiriya Upanishad, the mental being (or perhaps just the Mental Purusha) is the \"mano-maya-atma\" - the self made of mind (\"manas\").\n\nFor Sri Aurobindo, Mind or the Mental being is not simple and uniform, but consists itself of various strata and subdivisions, which act at different levels of being. These various faculties are described or variously referred to, usually in obliquely or in passing, in some of his books, including \"Savitri\", which has poetic references to many types of Mind. In his letters answering questions from disciples, Sri Aurobindo summarises the characteristics of the various levels of Mind.\n\nAbove mind proper lie various higher individual levels of mind, namely the Higher Mind, Illumined Mind, Intuitive Mind and Overmind, which ascend toward the Spirit, and provide a higher and more inclusive vision of reality:\n\nSupermind is the infinite unitary Truth Consciousness or Truth-Idea beyond the three lower planes of Matter, Life, and Mind. Supermind is the dynamic form of Sachchidananda (Being-Consciousness-Bliss), and the necessary mediator or link between the transcendent Sacchidananda and the creation.\n\nHumans are stuck between matter and Spirit, due to the habits of personality and partial awareness, which arise from Ignorance.\n\nHumans are accustomed to respond to certain vibrations more than other. These customs develop into one's desire, pain, feelings, which are all a set of habits. This crystallised set of habits becomes one's personality. This is normally believed to be \"self\". The appearance of stable personality is given by constant repetition and recurrence of the same vibrations and formations.\n\nAccording to Aurobindo, humans face three basic problems:\n\nThe fundamental cause of falsehood, error and evil is Ignorance. Ignorance is a self-limiting knowledge, which arises with exclusive concentration in a single field. According to Aurobindo, human notion of good, bad & evil are uncertain and relative.\n\nUnlike other Yoga practices \"Integral yoga\" does not propose any kind of physical asanas, breathing techniques or external movements. It is more psychological in nature, with internal reflection and self-analysis & correction as main tools of development .\n\nThe main practices or approaches are divided into \n\nThe limitations of the present being can be overcome by the Triple transformation, the process in which the lower nature is transformed into the divine nature. It consists of the inward psychicisation by which the sadhak gets in contact with the inner divine principle or Psychic Being; the spiritual transformation or spiritualisation; and the Supramentalisation of the entire being.\n\nPsychicisation is a turn inward, so that one realises the psychic being, the psychic personality or Divine Soul, in the core of one's being. The Divine Soul serves as a spiritual Guide in the yoga, and enables one to transform the outer being. It may also help avoid the dangers of the spiritual path. There is an intermediate zone, a dangerous and misleading transitional spiritual and pseudospiritual region between the ordinary consciousness and true spiritual realisation.\n\nPsychisiation consists of three methods. In \"consecration\" one opens oneself to the Force before engaging in an activity. \"Moving to the Depths\" (or \"concentration\") is a movement away from the surface existence to a deeper existence within. \"Surrender\" means offering all one's work, one's life to the Divine Force and Intent. Guided by the evolving divine soul within, the sadhak moves away from ego, ignorance, finiteness, and the limitations of the outer being. It is thanks to this guidance by the Divine Soul that the sadhak can avoid the pitfalls of the spiritual path.\n\nAs a result of the Psychicisation, light, peace, and power descend into the body, transforming all of its parts, physical, vital, and mental. This is the Spiritual transformation, or Spiritualisation, the concretisation of the larger spiritual consciousness. It is equivalent to \"enlightenment\", as found in Vedanta and Buddhism.\n\nAurobindo asserted that spiritual aspirants may pass through an intermediate zone where experiences of force, inspiration, illumination, light, joy, expansion, power, and freedom from normal limits are possible. These can become associated with personal aspirations, ambitions, notions of spiritual fulfilment and yogic siddhi, and even be falsely interpreted as full spiritual realisation. One can pass through this zone, and the associated spiritual dangers, without harm by perceiving its real nature, and seeing through the misleading experiences. Those who go astray in it may end in a spiritual disaster, or may remain stuck there and adopt some half-truth as the whole truth, or become an instrument of lesser powers of these transitional planes. According to Aurobindo, this happens to many sadhaks and yogis.\n\nSupramentalisation is the realisation of the Supermind, or Supramental consciousness, and the resulting transformation of the entire being. Psychicisation and spirtualisation serve as necessary prerequisites for the Supramentalisation of the entire being.\n\nThe supramental transformation is the final stage in the integral yoga, enabling the birth of a new individual, fully formed by the supramental power. Such individuals would be the forerunners of a new supra-humanity, grounded in truth-consciousness. All aspects of division and ignorance of consciousness, at the vital and mental levels, would be overcome, and replaced with a unity of consciousness at every plane. And even the physical body transformed and divinised. A new supramental species would then emerge, living a supramental, gnostic, divine life on earth.\n\nAurobindo describes several results and different stages depicting the stages of development in integral yoga, called together the \"sapta chatushtaya\", \"seven quadrates.\" It consists of:.\n\nAurobindo had a strong influence on Ken Wilber's integral theory of spiritual development. Wilber's Causal and Ultimate stages closely resemble Aurobindo's higher mental stages, but Wilber lumps together levels of Being, types of Being and developmental stages.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "258689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=258689", "title": "Ipos", "text": "Ipos\n\nIn demonology, Ipos is an Earl and powerful Prince of Hell (a Duke to some authors) who has thirty-six legions of demons under his command. He knows and can reveal all things, past, present and future (only the future to some authors, and past and future to others). He can make men witty and valiant.\n\nHe is commonly depicted with the body of an angel with the head of a lion, the tail of a hare, and the feet of a goose, less frequently in the same shape but with the body of a lion, and rarely as a vulture.\n\n\"Other spellings\": Aiperos, Ayperos, Ayporos, Ipes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41732191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41732191", "title": "Jahangir IV", "text": "Jahangir IV\n\nJahangir IV (), was the last ruler of the Paduspanid branch of Kojur. He was the son and successor of Sultan Mohammad ibn Jahangir.\n\nIn 1593, Jahangir arrived to the court of Abbas I of Persia, and established good relations with him. However, during a festival in Qazvin, Jahangir killed two prominent Safavid nobles. This made Abbas invade his domains in 1598, where he besieged Kojur. Jahangir managed to flee, but was captured and killed by a Pro-Safavid Paduspanid named Hasan Lavasani, marking the end of the Paduspanid dynasty.\n\n"}
{"id": "25579132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25579132", "title": "John H. E. Hull", "text": "John H. E. Hull\n\n-not to be confused with John M. Hull (b. 1935), Emeritus Professor of Religious Education at the University of Birmingham.\"\n\nRev. John Howarth Eric Hull (27 January 1923 - 29 November 1977) was an English writer on religion. Ordained in 1946 as a congregational minister, he held pastorates at Oakvale, Liverpool, Timperley, Cheshire and Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Manchester.\n\nIn the 1950s, Hull commenced part-time teaching of Greek and the New Testament at the Lancashire Independent College Manchester, where he had trained as a minister. From 1961 until his death in 1977, he devoted himself full-time to teaching at what then became known as the Northern Congregational College Manchester (subsequently renamed The Congregational College Manchester). Upon its formation in 1972, Hull then became a minister of the United Reformed Church.\n\nHull was appointed principal of the college in July 1977. He died aged 54 on 29 November 1977. His widow, Dr. Winifred Hull, a classics scholar, temporarily took over the teaching of Greek, also serving as [Warden (college)|warden]] of the College until a successor could be appointed.\n\nHull's most famous work was \"The Holy Spirit in the Acts of the Apostles\" (1967). In it, he argued that at Pentecost, the apostles only became aware of the gift of the Spirit they had already received.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829324", "title": "Jonathan M. Roberts", "text": "Jonathan M. Roberts\n\nJonathan Manning Roberts (December 7, 1821 - February 28, 1888) was an American lawyer, spiritualist medium and writer. \n\nRoberts authored the book \"Antiquity Unveiled\" which was published in 1892. It claims to be an account of spirit messages proving Christianity \"an offspring of more ancient religions\". He was a proponent of the Christ myth theory. He practised law prior to becoming an editor for the weekly spiritualist journal \"Mind and Matter\".\n\nRoberts was a member of the abolitionist party prior to the American Civil War, and a Republican afterward. His father was a member of the U.S. Senate.\n\n"}
{"id": "11943756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11943756", "title": "King Mosiah II", "text": "King Mosiah II\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Mosiah II (), King Benjamin's son and Mosiah I's grandson, was king of the Nephite nation from about 124 BC to 91 BC. The Book of Mosiah is named after Mosiah II.\n\nMosiah instituted a new governing system after all of his sons declined to succeed him as king, choosing rather to preach the gospel. This new government was based on judges elected and chosen by the people. After Mosiah's death in approximately 91 BC, this council of elected judges constituted the government of the land until Christ visited the Nephite nation (see ).\n\nMosiah II was presumably named after his grandfather.\n\nHugh Nibley relates the name to a combination of the name Moses with that of Yahweh (Jehovah).\n\nThe Egyptian root \"msy\", \"child of\", has been considered as a possible etymology for the name Moses, arguably an abbreviation of a theophoric name, as for example in Egyptian names like Thutmoses (Thoth created him) and Ramesses (Ra created him), with the god's name omitted. In the case of Mosiah, the inversion of the elements could yield the combination \"son of Yah\".\n\nThe name is also similar to Isaiah in the Hebrew Bible, and the \"-iah\" suffix can be found in a number of Book of Mormon names such as Amalickiah and Sariah, as well as the Biblical names Jeremiah and Zedekiah.\n"}
{"id": "31455043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31455043", "title": "Kurt Latte", "text": "Kurt Latte\n\nKurt Latte (9 March 1891, Königsberg – 8 June 1964, Tutzing) was a German philologist and classical scholar known for his work on ancient Roman religion.\n\nThe son of a doctor, Latte studied at the Universities of Königsberg, Bonn and Berlin. After taking his doctorate at Königsberg in 1913 under Ludwig Deubner with a study on cultic dance in ancient Greece, he began work on an edition of the dictionary of Hesychius of Alexandria. After service in World War I he was \"Assistent\" at the Institut für Altertumskunde of the University of Münster from 1920 to 1923, gaining his Habilitation there in 1920 with a study of Greek and Roman sacral law. In 1923 he was appointed Professor at Greifswald as successor to Johannes Mewaldts, in 1926 Professor at Basel as successor to Günther Jachmann, and in 1931 Professor at Göttingen, as successor to Eduard Fraenkel. He was forced to retire on April 1, 1936, having been classified as a Jew by the Nazis.\n\nHaving returned to Germany in 1937 from a visiting professorship in Chicago, Latte lived out the period of Nazi rule in Hamburg (where he was supported by Bruno Snell), Düsseldorf, and Osterode am Harz, where he had been invited by his erstwhile Greifswald colleague Konrat Ziegler, who hid him for a time. In 1945 he was able to resume his chair at Göttingen, but declined to endorse an appointment for Ziegler. In 1947 he was made a corresponding member of the German Academy of Sciences in Berlin. From 1949 to 1956 he was President and Vice President of the Academy of Sciences at Göttingen, as well as chairman of the Mommsen-Gesellschaft. In 1951 he received an honorary doctorate from Heidelberg. After his retirement in 1957 he moved to Tutzing and up until his death held seminars on Greek law at the University of Munich.\n\nHis major work is \"Römische Religionsgeschichte\" (Munich, 1960), which was intended to replace the work of Georg Wissowa that by then was nearly 60 years old. Although widely cited, Latte's work has not escaped criticism. Latte attempted to be systematic and historical at the same time, melding Wissowa's Varro-based systematic description with the historical approach of Franz Altheim; the resulting structure can seem haphazard. In the opinion of Stefan Weinstock, Latte's understanding of linguistics was superior to that of Wissowa.\n\nLatte rejected animism as having explanatory value for the study of Roman religion, but made some use of the concept of sympathetic magic, an approach criticized as inconsistent. His discussion of Roman priesthoods is considered \"vital.\"\n\nLatte viewed Roman religious traditions as in decline in the late Republic, and subject to political abuse. He felt, however, that the importance of Imperial cult had been exaggerated, and that \"emperor worship\" was a minor and perhaps not really a religious phenomenon at all. His is a counterweight to the predominant scholarly view that Imperial cult became increasingly central to Roman religion.\n\nLatte's monumental edition of Hesychius of Alexandria was left unfinished at the time of his death (vol. 1 published in 1953, vol. 2 posthumously in 1966); the work was completed by Peter Allan Hansen and Ian C. Cunningham (vols. 3-4, 2005-2009).\n\n"}
{"id": "2220339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2220339", "title": "Latin Mass Magazine", "text": "Latin Mass Magazine\n\nThe Latin Mass: A Journal of Catholic Culture, commonly referred to as Latin Mass Magazine, is an American Catholic magazine published quarterly, with a traditionalist Catholic viewpoint. It is based in Ramsey, New Jersey.\n\nPublished by the Catholic organization Keep the Faith, \"Latin Mass Magazine\" is a strong supporter of the traditional Tridentine Mass and has often expressed skepticism about the liturgical and other reforms introduced by the Second Vatican Council and Popes John XXIII and Paul VI. The magazine admires Pope Benedict XVI because of his emphasis on traditional Catholic dogma and apparent desire to widen the use of the Tridentine Mass in the church. The magazine claims to be \"one of the fastest growing Catholic periodicals in the country.\". In an interview with \"The Wanderer\", a Catholic weekly newspaper, former publisher Roger McCaffrey claimed: \"In 10 years, the circulation of \"Latin Mass Magazine\" will be higher than that of \"America\".\"\n\nAccording to its mission statement, the magazine attempts to combat what it sees as \"accelerating secularism\" by emphasizing a \"return of the Church to tradition and authentic organic development\". The magazine also holds conferences to encourage conservative priests and laity in furthering a more traditional approach to Catholic teaching and liturgy, and it hopes to establish a study center \"that will assist the articulation of Catholic tradition\". \n\nThe magazine's most recent managing editor was John W. Blewett, who died February 8, 2013.\n\nThe publication has seen occasional controversy, such as its dispute with \"The Wanderer\" over \"Humanae Vitae\", Paul VI's encyclical on birth control.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013132", "title": "Lavabo", "text": "Lavabo\n\nA lavabo is a device used to provide water for the washing of hands. It consists normally of an ewer or container of some kind to pour water, and a bowl to catch the water as it falls off the hands. In ecclesiastical usage it refers to all of: the basin in which the priest washes his/her/their hands; the ritual that surrounds this action in the Catholic Mass; and the architectural feature or fitting where a basin or place for one is recessed into the side wall of the sanctuary, or projects from it. If this last includes or included a drain, it is a piscina used for washing the church plate and other fittings, though the terms are often confused. In secular usage, it is an obsolete term for any sink or basin for washing hands, especially in a lavatory.\n\nThe name \"\" (\"I shall wash\" in Latin) is derived from the words of Psalm (KJV; in the Septuagint it is Psalm 25), which the celebrant traditionally recites while he/she/they washes his/her/their hands: \"I will wash my hands in innocency, so will I compass thine altar, O Lord\". The washing of hands during the recitation of these psalm verses is of very ancient usage in the Catholic Church:\n\nIn the third century there are traces of a custom of washing the hands as a preparation for prayer on the part of all Christians; and from the fourth century onwards it appears to have been usual for the ministers at the Communion Service ceremonially to wash their hands before the more solemn part of the service as a symbol of inward purity.\n\nIn most liturgical traditions, the priest washes his/her/their hands after vesting, before the beginning of the liturgy. This washing may be accompanied by prayers. Many Christian rites also have the priest wash his/her/their hands before beginning the Eucharistic prayer. In the \"Apostolic Constitutions\", VIII, 11, the hands of the celebrants are washed just before the dismissal of the catechumens.\n\nIn the Roman Rite, the celebrant washes his hands before vesting for Mass, but with another prayer (\"Da, Domine, virtutem\"). This is said privately in the vestry. He will then wash his hands again after the offertory—this is the ceremony that is known as the \"lavabo\" proper. This washing appears in both the Tridentine Mass, the 1962 edition of which is now an authorized extraordinary form of the Roman Rite), and in the Mass of Paul VI. The reason for this \"second\" washing of hands probably developed from the long ceremony of receiving the loaves and vessels of wine from the people at the offertory that was used at Rome. In the Gallican Rite the offerings were prepared before Mass began, as in the Eastern Liturgy of Preparation, so there was no long version of the offertory nor place for a lavabo before the Eucharistic Prayer. In the Middle Ages, the Roman Rite actually had two washing of hands, one before and one after the offertory. This first one has since disappeared, and the one which remains is the second.\n\nAt High Mass (or sung Mass), in the older rite, and in the more solemn forms available in the newer version, after the offertory, the celebrant censes the altar and is then censed himself at the Epistle side (south side of the altar), he remains there while his hands are washed by the acolytes, who ought to be waiting by the credence table. The first acolyte pours water from the cruet over his fingers into a little dish, the second then hands him the towel to dry the fingers. Meanwhile, in the 1962 rubrics he says the psalm verses: \"I will wash my hands among the innocent...\", to the end of the psalm (Psalm 25: 6-12 in the Vulgate, which is Psalm 26: 6-12 in the Hebrew). In the newer Mass the celebrant says the prayer: \"Lord, wash away my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin\" (Psalm 50:2, Psalm 51:2 in the Hebrew).\n\nA bishop at high Mass wears the \"precious\" mitre (\"mitra pretiosa\") while he is censed and then washes his hands. A larger silver basin and cruet are generally used for a bishop, though there is no official requirement for this. \n\nFor the lavabo, the priest will use a simple linen towel, which is often considered to be one of the altar linens, though technically it is not.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches, the priest says the last six verses from Psalm 26:\nI will wash my hands in innocency and I will compass Thine altar, O Lord, that I may hear the voice of Thy praise and tell of all Thy wondrous works. O Lord, I have loved the beauty of Thy house, and the place where Thy glory dwelleth. Destroy not my soul with the ungodly, nor my life with men of blood, in whose hands are iniquities; their right hand is full of bribes. But as for me, in mine innocence have I walked; redeem me, O Lord, and have mercy on me. My foot hath stood in uprightness; in the congregations will I bless Thee, O Lord.\nAfter vesting, he goes to the \"thalassidion\" (piscina) to wash his hands before approaching the prothesis (altar of preparation), where he will prepare the bread and wine for the Divine Liturgy. This lavabo takes place quietly, outside of the view of the congregation.\n\nSaint Cyril of Jerusalem mentions a washing of hands that takes place in the sight of the people (Mystagogical Catechism, v). And this still takes place at a Hierarchical Divine Liturgy (i.e., one at which a bishop is serving). He will wash his hands as he stands at the \"kathedra\" in the nave of the church. This takes place during the reading of the Little Hours after he has been solemly vested by two subdeacons. The subdeacons and a server will approach the bishop; the server holds the ewer and basin, and has a large towel around his neck. The subedacons pour rose water over the bishop's hands and then lift the towel from the server's neck and give it to the bishop for him to dry his hands. Meanwhile, the protodeacon is swinging the censer and chanting the verses from Psalm 25. Afterwards, the subdeacons replace the towel over the server's neck, and all three bow to the bishop and return to the sanctuary. \n\nJust before the Great Entrance the same ceremony takes place as during the Little Hours, except now it takes place in front of the Holy Doors of the iconostasis. After drying his hands, the bishop goes to the prothesis to make his personal commemorations for the living and the dead, as he removes particles from the prosphora.\n\nThe clergy will also wash their hands after receiving Holy Communion, but this is not accompanied by special prayers.\n\nIn the Syriac and Coptic rites, the lavabo takes place after the recitation of the Nicene Creed.\n\nIn many early and medieveal monasteries, there would be a large lavabo (\"lavatorio\") where the brethren would wash their hands before entering church. This practice was first legislated in the Rule of St. Benedict in the 6th century, but has earlier antecedents. St. John Chrysostom mentions the custom in his day of all Christians washing their hands before entering the church for worship.\n\nThough ecclesiastical lavabos are ordinarily of metal, a familiar lavabo consists of a terra cotta tank with a faucet attached and a small basin below it. Today it is a common feature in many gardens in Europe and the U.S. as a decoration whose practical use has been long forgotten. \n\nThe lavabo may be considered the forerunner of the modern sink. In several European languages (French, Italian, Serbo-Croatian, Spanish, Turkish), \"lavabo\" is the modern word for sink or washbasin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18517000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18517000", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Senegal", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Senegal\n\nThe (Roman) Catholic Church in Senegal is composed solely of a Latin hierarchy, <br>comprising a single ecclesiastical province, coinciding with the country, <br>consisting of the Metropolitan see (in the capital Dakar) and six suffragan dioceses. \n\nThere is no national Episcopal Conference of Senegal but capital Dakar hosts and its episcopate partakes in the transnational Romance languages West African \"Conférence des Evêques du Sénégal, de la Mauritanie, du Cap-Vert et de Guinée-Bissau\", jointly with two francophone neighbours (fellow ex-French colonies) Mauritania and Guinea-Bissau and with lusophone (ex-Portuguese) Cape Verde. <br>The Anglophone Gambia (an enclave in Senegal) however forms a conference with (also ex-British) Sierra Leone.\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic, pre-diocesan or other exempt jurisdictions.\n\nThere are no titular sees. All defunct jurisdictions are predecessors of current sees.\n\nThere is an Apostolic Nunciature to Senegal (in national capital Dakar) as embassy-level papal diplomatic representation. In it are also vested to Apostolic Nunciatures to episcopal conference-partners Cape Verde and Guinea-Bissau as well as the Apostolic Delegation (lower level) the last partner Mauritania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17984788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17984788", "title": "List of Christian martyrs", "text": "List of Christian martyrs\n\nThis is a list of reputed martyrs of Christianity. The list can never be fully complete, and it includes only notable people with Wikipedia articles. Not all Christian denominations accept every figure on this list as a martyr or Christian, see the linked articles for fuller discussion. In many denominations of Christianity, martyrdom is considered a direct path to sainthood and many names on this list are recognized as saints in one or more denominations. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40445615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40445615", "title": "List of Russian Orthodox churches", "text": "List of Russian Orthodox churches\n\nThis is a list of Russian Orthodox churches that are individually notable. This includes churches of the semi-autonomous Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia and churches in Russia and elsewhere not within ROCOR's system.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the United States there are numerous notable Russian Orthodox churches, including many that were listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places in 1980 as part of one study.\nIn Alaska, the Russian America community includes more than 20,000 members of the Russian Orthodox church. Many of the notable churches are current churches within List of Orthodox parishes in Alaska.\n\nChurches include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58884910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58884910", "title": "List of atheist Armenians", "text": "List of atheist Armenians\n\nThis list of atheist Armenians includes ethnic Armenian atheists, including those of partial Armenian ancestry from the widespread diaspora.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8852960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8852960", "title": "Marshall Gauvin", "text": "Marshall Gauvin\n\nMarshall Jerome Gauvin (April 3, 1881 – September 23, 1978), best known as Marshall J. Gauvin was a Canadian atheist author and speaker in the freethought movement.\n\nGauvin was born near Moncton, New Brunswick. He was a contributor to the \"Truth Seeker\", a publication devoted to freethought.\n\nHis collected writings are part of the collection of the University of Manitoba. The description of the collection at the Directory of Special Collections of Research Value in Canadian Libraries states that \"The collection is noted for its comprehensive holdings in free thought and rationalist literature.\" and \" ...there is substantial material on atheism, biblical studies, science, oratory, early women's studies, and English literature and history.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1165522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1165522", "title": "Mindfulness", "text": "Mindfulness\n\nMindfulness is the psychological process of bringing one's attention to experiences occurring in the present moment, which one can develop through the practice of meditation and through other training. Mindfulness is derived from \"sati\", a significant element of Buddhist traditions, and based on Zen, \"Vipassanā\", and Tibetan meditation techniques. Individuals who have contributed to the popularity of mindfulness in the modern Western context include Thích Nhất Hạnh (1926– ), Herbert Benson (1935– ), Jon Kabat-Zinn (1944– ), and Richard J. Davidson (1951– ). \n\nClinical psychology and psychiatry since the 1970s have developed a number of therapeutic applications based on mindfulness for helping people experiencing a variety of psychological conditions. Mindfulness practice has been employed to reduce symptoms of depression, to reduce stress, anxiety, and in the treatment of drug addiction. Programs based on Kabat-Zinn's and similar models have been adopted in schools, prisons, hospitals, veterans' centers, and other environments, and mindfulness programs have been applied for additional outcomes such as for healthy aging, weight management, athletic performance, helping children with special needs, and as an intervention during the perinatal period. \n\nClinical studies have documented both physical- and mental-health benefits of mindfulness in different patient categories as well as in healthy adults and children. Research studies have consistently shown a positive relationship between trait mindfulness and psychological health. The practice of mindfulness appears to provide therapeutic benefits to people with psychiatric disorders, including to those with psychosis. Studies also indicate that rumination and worry contribute to the onset of a variety of mental disorders, and that mindfulness-based interventions significantly reduce both rumination and worry. Further, the practice of mindfulness may be a preventive strategy to halt the development of mental-health problems.\n\nThe necessity for more high-quality research in this field has also been identified – such as the need for more randomized controlled studies, for providing more methodological details in reported studies and for the use of larger sample sizes.\nMindfulness practice involves the process of developing the skill of bringing one’s attention to whatever is happening in the present moment. There are several exercises designed to develop mindfulness meditation, which are aided by guided meditations \"to get the hang of it.\" One method is to sit on a straight-backed chair or sit cross-legged on the floor or a cushion, close one’s eyes and bring attention to either the sensations of breathing in the proximity of one’s nostrils or to the movements of the abdomen when breathing in and out. In this meditation practice, one does not try to control one’s breathing, but attempts to simply be aware of one’s natural breathing process/rhythm. When engaged in this practice, the mind will often run off to other thoughts and associations, and if this happens, one passively notices that the mind has wandered, and in an accepting, non-judgmental way, returns to focusing on breathing.\n\nOther meditation exercises to develop mindfulness include body-scan meditation where attention is directed at various areas of the body and noting body sensations that happen in the present moment. Engaging in yoga practices, while attending to movements and body sensations, as well as walking meditation are other methods of developing mindfulness. One could also focus on sounds, sensations, thoughts, feelings and actions that happen in the present. In this regard, a famous exercise, introduced by Kabat-Zinn in his MBSR program, is the mindful tasting of a raisin, in which a raisin is being tasted and eaten mindfully.\n\nMeditators are recommended to start with short periods of 10 minutes or so of meditation practice per day. As one practices regularly, it becomes easier to keep the attention focused on breathing.\n\nWhile mindfulness practice is derived from Buddhist meditation methods, in a Buddhist context the keeping of moral precepts is an essential preparatory stage. Vipassana also includes contemplation and reflection on phenomena as \"dukkha\", \"anatta\" and \"anicca\", and reflections on causation and other Buddhist teachings.\n\nMindfulness meditation is part of Buddhist psychological traditions and the developing scholarship within empirical psychology.\n\nThe Buddhist term translated into English as \"mindfulness\" originates in the Pali term \"sati\" and in its Sanskrit counterpart \"smṛti\". It is often translated as \"bare attention,\" but in the Buddhist tradition it has a broader meaning and application, and the meaning of these terms has been the topic of extensive debate and discussion.\n\nAccording to Bryan Levman writing in the \"Journal of the Oxford Centre for Buddhist Studies\", \"the word \"sati\" incorporates the meaning of 'memory' and 'remembrance' in much of its usage in both the \"suttas\" and the [traditional Buddhist] commentary, and... without the memory component, the notion of mindfulness cannot be properly understood or applied, as mindfulness requires memory for its effectiveness\". \n\nAccording to Robert Sharf, \"smṛti\" originally meant \"to remember,\" \"to recollect,\" \"to bear in mind,\" as in the Vedic tradition of remembering the sacred texts. The term \"sati\" also means \"to remember.\" In the \"Satipaṭṭhāna-sutta\" the term \"sati\" means to remember the dharmas, whereby the true nature of phenomena can be seen. Sharf refers to the Milindapañha, which explained that the arisement of \"sati\" calls to mind the wholesome dhammas such as the four establishings of mindfulness, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening-factors, the noble eight-factored path, and the attainment of insight. According to Rupert Gethin, \nSharf further notes that this has little to do with \"bare attention,\" the popular contemporary interpretation of \"sati\", \"since it entails, among other things, the proper discrimination of the moral valence of phenomena as they arise.\"\n\nGeorges Dreyfus has also expressed unease with the definition of mindfulness as \"bare attention\" or \"nonelaborative, nonjudgmental, present-centered awareness\", stressing that mindfulness in Buddhist context means also \"remembering\", which indicates that the function of mindfulness also includes the retention of information. Robert H. Sharf notes that Buddhist practice is aimed at the attainment of \"correct view\", not just \"bare attention\". Jay Garfield, quoting Shantideva and other sources, stresses that mindfulness is constituted by the union of two functions, \"calling to mind\" and vigilantly \"retaining in mind\". He demonstrates that there is a direct connection between the practice of mindfulness and the cultivation of morality – at least in the context of Buddhism from which modern interpretations of mindfulness are stemming.\n\nThe Pali-language scholar Thomas William Rhys Davids (1843–1922) first translated \"sati\" in 1881 as English \"\" in \"sammā-sati\" \"Right Mindfulness; the active, watchful mind\". Noting that Daniel John Gogerly (1845) initially rendered \"sammā-sati\" as \"Correct meditation\", Davids explained: \nJohn D. Dunne asserts that the translation of \"sati\" and \"smṛti\" as mindfulness is confusing. A number of Buddhist scholars have started trying to establish \"retention\" as the preferred alternative.\nBhikkhu Bodhi also points to the meaning of \"sati\" as \"memory\". The terms sati/smriti have been translated as:\n\nA.M. Haynes and G. Feldman have highlighted that mindfulness can be seen as a strategy that stands in contrast to a strategy of avoidance of emotion on the one hand and to the strategy of emotional overengagement on the other hand. Mindfulness can also be viewed as a means to develop self-knowledge and wisdom.\n\nAccording to Brown, Ryan, and Creswell, definitions of mindfulness are typically selectively interpreted based on who is studying it and how it is applied. Some have viewed mindfulness as a mental state, while others have viewed it as a set of skills and techniques. A distinction can also be made between the \"state\" of mindfulness and the \"trait\" of mindfulness.\n\nAccording to David S. Black, whereas \"mindfulness\" originally was associated with esoteric beliefs and religion, and \"a capacity attainable only by certain people\", scientific researchers have translated the term into measurable terms, providing a valid operational definition of mindfulness. Black mentions three possible domains:\n\nAccording to Brown, mindfulness is:\nSeveral mindfulness measures have been developed which are based on self-reporting of trait-like constructs:\n\nAccording to Bishop, et alia, mindfulness is, \"A kind of nonelaborative, nonjudgmental, present-centered awareness in which each thought, feeling, or sensation that arises in the attentional field is acknowledged and accepted as it is.\"\n\n\nMindfulness as a practice is described as:\n\nAccording to Steven F. Hick, mindfulness practice involves both formal and informal meditation practices, and nonmeditation-based exercises. Formal mindfulness, or meditation, is the practice of sustaining attention on body, breath or sensations, or whatever arises in each moment. Informal mindfulness is the application of mindful attention in everyday life. Nonmeditation-based exercises are specifically used in dialectical behavior therapy and in acceptance and commitment therapy. \n\nIn a paper that described a consensus among clinical psychologists on an operational and testable definition, Bishop, Lau, et al. (2004) proposed a two-component model of mindfulness: \nIn this two-component model, self-regulated attention (the first component) \"involves bringing awareness to current experience - observing and attending to the changing fields of \"objects\" (thoughts, feelings, sensations), from moment to moment – by regulating the focus of attention\". Orientation to experience (the second component) involves maintaining an attitude of curiosity about objects experienced at each moment, and about where and how the mind wanders when it drifts from the selected focus of attention. Clients are asked to avoid trying to produce a particular state (e.g. relaxation), but rather to just notice each object that arises in the stream of consciousness.\n\nAn ancient model of the mind, generally known as the five-aggregate model enables one to understand the moment-to-moment manifestation of subjective conscious experience, and therefore can be a potentially useful theoretical resource to guide mindfulness interventions.\n\nThe five aggregates are described as follows:\n\nThis model describes how sensory consciousness results in the generation of feelings, perception or volition, and how individuals’ previously conditioned attitudes and past associations influence this generation. The five aggregates are described as constantly arising and ceasing in the present moment.\n\nThe practice of mindfulness can be utilized to gradually develop self-knowledge and wisdom. In this regard, Buddhist teachings provide detailed instructions on how one can carry out an inquiry into the nature of the mind, and this guidance can help one to make sense of one’s subjective experience. This could include understanding what the “present moment” is, how various thoughts, etc., arise following input from the senses, the conditioned nature of thoughts, and other realizations. In Buddhist teachings, ultimate wisdom refers to gaining deep insight into all phenomena or “seeing things as they are.”\n\nSince the 1970s, most books on meditation use definitions of mindfulness similar to Jon Kabat-Zinn's definition as \"present moment awareness\". However, recently a number of teachers of meditation have proposed quite different definitions of mindfulness. Shinzen Young says a person is mindful when they have mindful awareness, and defines that to be when \"concentration power, sensory clarity, and equanimity [are] working together.\" John Yates (Culadasa) defines mindfulness to be \"the optimal interaction between attention and peripheral awareness\", where he distinguishes attention and peripheral awareness as two distinct modes in which one may be conscious of things.\n\nThe English term \"mindfulness\" already existed before it came to be used in a (western) Buddhist context. It was first recorded as \"myndfulness\" in 1530 (John Palsgrave translates French \"pensée\"), as \"mindfulnesse\" in 1561, and \"mindfulness\" in 1817. Morphologically earlier terms include \"mindful\" (first recorded in 1340), \"mindfully\" (1382), and the obsolete \"mindiness\" (c. 1200).\n\nAccording to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, mindfulness may also refer to \"a state of being aware\". Synonyms for this \"state of being aware\" are wakefulness, attention, alertness, prudence, conscientiousness, awareness, consciousness, and observation.\n\nMindfulness as a modern, Western practice is founded on Zen and modern vipassana, and involves the training of sati, which means \"moment to moment awareness of present events\", but also \"remembering to be aware of something\". \n\n\"Sati\" is one of the seven factors of enlightenment. \"Correct\" or \"right\" mindfulness (Pali: \"sammā-sati\", Sanskrit \"samyak-smṛti\") is the seventh element of the noble eightfold path. Mindfulness is an antidote to delusion and is considered as a 'power' (Pali: \"bala\") which contributes to the attainment of \"nirvana\". This faculty becomes a power in particular when it is coupled with clear comprehension of whatever is taking place. Nirvana is a state of being in which greed, hatred and delusion (Pali: \"moha\") have been overcome and abandoned, and are absent from the mind.\n\nAccording to Paul Williams, referring to Erich Frauwallner, mindfulness provided the way in early Buddhism to liberation, \"constantly watching sensory experience in order to prevent the arising of cravings which would power future experience into rebirths.\" According to Vetter, \"dhyana\" may have been the original core practice of the Buddha, which aided the maintenance of mindfulness.\n\nAccording to Rhys Davids, the doctrine of mindfulness is \"perhaps the most important\" after the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path. T.W. Rhys Davids viewed the teachings of Gotama as a rational technique for self-actualization and rejected a few parts of it, mainly the doctrine of rebirth, as residual superstitions.\n\nThe aim of zazen is just sitting, that is, suspending all judgmental thinking and letting words, ideas, images and thoughts pass by without getting involved in them.\n\nIn modern \"vipassana\"-meditation, as propgated by the Vipassana movement, \"sati\" aids \"vipassana\", insight into the true nature of reality, namely the three marks of existence, the impermanence of and the unsatisfactoriness of every conditioned thing that exists, and non-self. With this insight, the practitioner becomes a socalled \"Sotāpanna\", a \"stream-enterer\", the first stage on the path to liberation.\n\nVipassana is practiced in tandem with samatha, and also plays a central role in other Buddhist traditions. According to the contemporary Theravada orthodoxy, samatha is used as a preparation for vipassanā, pacifying the mind and strengthening the concentration in order to allow the work of insight, which leads to liberation.\n\nVipassanā-meditation has gained popularity in the west through the modern Buddhist vipassana movement, modeled after Theravāda Buddhism meditation practices, which employs vipassanā and ānāpāna meditation as its primary techniques and places emphasis on the teachings of the Sutta.\n\nAnapanasati is mindfulness of breathing. \"Sati\" means mindfulness; \"ānāpāna\" refers to inhalation and exhalation. Anapanasati means to feel the sensations caused by the movements of the breath in the body. The \"Anapanasati Sutta\" gives an exposition on this practice.\n\nSatipaṭṭhāna is the establishment of mindfulness in one's day-to-day life, maintaining as much as possible a calm awareness of one's body, feelings, mind, and dharmas. The practice of mindfulness supports analysis resulting in the arising of wisdom (Pali: \"paññā\", Sanskrit: \"prajñā\").\n\nIn contemporary Theravada practice, \"mindfulness\" also includes \"samprajaña\", meaning \"clear comprehension\" and \"apramāda\" meaning \"vigilance\". All three terms are sometimes (confusingly) translated as \"mindfulness\", but they all have specific shades of meaning.\n\nIn a publicly available correspondence between Bhikkhu Bodhi and B. Alan Wallace, Bodhi has described Ven. Nyanaponika Thera's views on \"right mindfulness\" and sampajañña as follows:\nAccording to Buddhadasa, the aim of mindfulness is to stop the arising of disturbing thoughts and emotions, which arise from sense-contact.\n\nAccording to Grzegorz Polak, the four \"upassanā\" (foundations of mindfulness) have been misunderstood by the developing Buddhist tradition, including Theravada, to refer to four different foundations. According to Polak, the four \"upassanā\" do not refer to four different foundations, but to the awareness of four different aspects of raising mindfulness:\n\nKabat-Zinn himself refers to Thoreau as a predecessor of the interest in mindfulness, together with the other eminent Transcendentalists Emerson and Whitman:\nThe forms of Asian religion and spirituality which were introduced in the west were themselves influenced by Transcendentalism and other 19th-century manifestations of Western esotericism. Transcendentalism was closely connected to the Unitarian Church, which in India collaborated with Ram Mohan Roy (1772–1833) and his Brahmo Samaj. He found that Unitarianism came closest to true Christianity, and had a strong sympathy for the Unitarians. This influence worked through on Vivekananda, whose modern but idiosyncratic interpretation of Hinduism became widely popular in the west. Vipassana meditation, presented as a centuries-old meditation system, was a 19th-century reinvention, which gained popularity in south-east due to the accessibility of the Buddhist sutras through English translations from the Pali Text Society. It was brought to western attention in the 19th century by the Theosophical Society. Zen Buddhism first gained popularity in the west through the writings of D.T. Suzuki, who attempted to present a modern interpretation of Zen, adjusted to western tastes.\n\nIn 1979, Jon Kabat-Zinn founded the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) program at the University of Massachusetts to treat the chronically ill. This program sparked the application of mindfulness ideas and practices in Medicine for the treatment of a variety of conditions in both healthy and unhealthy people. MBSR and similar programs are now widely applied in schools, prisons, hospitals, veterans centers, and other environments.\n\nMindfulness practices were inspired mainly by teachings from the Eastern World, particularly from Buddhist traditions. Kabat-Zinn himself was first introduced to meditation by Philip Kapleau, a Zen missionary who came to speak at MIT where Kabat-Zinn was a student. Kabat-Zinn went on to study meditation with other Zen-Buddhist teachers such as Thích Nhất Hạnh and Seungsahn. He also studied at the Insight Meditation Society and eventually taught there.One of MBSR's techniques - the \"body scan\" - was derived from a meditation practice (\"sweeping\") of the Burmese U Ba Khin tradition, as taught by S. N. Goenka in his Vipassana retreats, which he began in 1976. It has since been widely adapted in secular settings, independent of religious or cultural contexts.\n\nMindfulness is gaining a growing popularity as a practice in daily life, apart from Buddhist insight meditation and its application in clinical psychology. In this context mindfulness is defined as moment-by-moment awareness of thoughts, feelings, bodily sensations, and surrounding environment, characterized mainly by \"acceptance\" - attention to thoughts and feelings without judging whether they are right or wrong. Mindfulness focuses the human brain on what is being sensed at each moment, instead of on its normal rumination on the past or on the future. \"Mindfulness\" may be seen as a mode of being, and can be practiced outside a formal setting. The terminology used by scholars of religion, scientists, journalists, and popular media writers to describe this movement of mindfulness \"popularization,\" and the many new contexts of mindfulness practice which have cropped up, has regularly evolved over the past 20 years, with some criticisms arising.\n\nAccording to Jon Kabat-Zinn the practice of mindfulness may be beneficial to many people in Western society who might be unwilling to adopt Buddhist traditions or vocabulary. Western researchers and clinicians who have introduced mindfulness practice into mental health treatment programs usually teach these skills independently of the religious and cultural traditions of their origins. Programs based on MBSR and similar models have been widely adapted in schools, prisons, hospitals, veterans centers, and other environments.\n\nMindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) is a mindfulness-based program developed by Jon Kabat-Zinn at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center, which uses a combination of mindfulness meditation, body awareness, and yoga to help people become more mindful. While MBSR has its roots in spiritual teachings, the program itself is secular.\n\nMindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) is a psychological therapy designed to aid in preventing the relapse of depression, specifically in individuals with Major depressive disorder (MDD). It uses traditional cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) methods and adds in newer psychological strategies such as mindfulness and mindfulness meditation. Cognitive methods can include educating the participant about depression. Mindfulness and mindfulness meditation, focus on becoming aware of all incoming thoughts and feelings and accepting them, but not attaching or reacting to them.\n\nLike CBT, MBCT functions on the theory that when individuals who have historically had depression become distressed, they return to automatic cognitive processes that can trigger a depressive episode. The goal of MBCT is to interrupt these automatic processes and teach the participants to focus less on reacting to incoming stimuli, and instead accepting and observing them without judgment. This mindfulness practice allows the participant to notice when automatic processes are occurring and to alter their reaction to be more of a reflection. \nResearch supports the effects of MBCT in people who have been depressed three or more times and demonstrates reduced relapse rates by 50%.\n\nAcceptance and commitment therapy or (ACT) (typically pronounced as the word \"act\") is a form of clinical behavior analysis (CBA) used in psychotherapy. It is a psychological intervention that uses acceptance and mindfulness strategies mixed in different ways with commitment and behavior-change strategies, to increase psychological flexibility. The approach was originally called \"comprehensive distancing\". It was developed in the late 1980s by Steven C. Hayes, Kelly G. Wilson, and Kirk Strosahl.\n\nMindfulness is a \"core\" exercise used in dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), a psychosocial treatment Marsha M. Linehan developed for treating people with borderline personality disorder. DBT is dialectic, explains Linehan, in the sense of \"the reconciliation of opposites in a continual process of synthesis.\" As a practitioner of Buddhist meditation techniques, Linehan says:\nMode deactivation therapy (MDT) is a treatment methodology that is derived from the principles of cognitive behavioral therapy and incorporates elements of Acceptance and commitment therapy, Dialectical behavior therapy, and mindfulness techniques. Mindfulness techniques such as simple breathing exercises are applied to assist the client in awareness and non-judgmental acceptance of unpleasant and distressing thoughts and feelings as they occur in the present moment. Mode Deactivation Therapy was developed and is established as an effective treatment for adolescents with problem behaviors and complex trauma-related psychological problems, according to recent publications by Jack A. Apsche and Joan Swart.\n\nSince 2006, research supports promising mindfulness-based therapies for a number of medical and psychiatric conditions, notably chronic pain (McCracken et al. 2007), stress (Grossman et al. 2004), anxiety and depression (Hofmann et al. 2010), substance abuse (Melemis 2008:141-157), and recurrent suicidal behavior (Williams et al. 2006). Bell (2009) gives a brief overview of mindful approaches to therapy, particularly family therapy, starting with a discussion of mysticism and emphasizing the value of a mindful therapist.\n\nThe Japanese psychiatrist Shoma Morita, who trained in Zen meditation, developed Morita therapy upon principles of mindfulness and non-attachment. Since the beginnings of Gestalt therapy in the early 1940s, mindfulness, referred to as \"awareness\", has been an essential part of its theory and practice.\n\nThe British doctor Clive Sherlock developed Adaptation Practice in 1977. Adaptation Practice is a structured programme of self-discipline.\n\nHakomi therapy, under development by Ron Kurtz and others, is a somatic psychology based upon Asian philosophical precepts of mindfulness and nonviolence.\n\nInternal Family Systems Model (IFS), developed by Richard C. Schwartz, emphasizes the importance of both therapist and client engaging in therapy from the Self, which is the IFS term for one’s \"spiritual center\". The Self is curious about whatever arises in one’s present experience and open and accepting toward all manifestations.\n\nMindfulness relaxation uses breathing methods, guided imagery, and other practices to relax the body and mind and help reduce stress.\n\nIn 2012 Congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio published \"A Mindful Nation\", and has received a $1 million federal grant to teach mindfulness in schools in his home district.\n\nMindful Kids Miami, Inc.(MKM) is a tax-exempt, 501 (c)(3), non-profit corporation established in 2011 and dedicated to making age-appropriate mindfulness training available to school children in Miami-Dade County public and private schools. This is primarily accomplished by training educators and other child care providers to incorporate mindfulness practices in the children’s daily activities.\n\nIn 2000, The Inner Kids Program, a mindfulness-based program developed for children, was introduced into public and private school curricula in the greater Los Angeles area.\n\nMindUP, a classroom-based program spearheaded by Goldie Hawn's Hawn Foundation, teaches students to self-regulate behavior and mindfully engage in focused concentration required for academic success. For the last decade, MindUP has trained teachers in over 1,000 schools in cities from Arizona to Washington.\n\nThe Holistic Life Foundation, a non-profit organization that created an in-school mindfulness program called Mindful Moment, is currently serving almost 350 students daily at Robert W. Coleman Elementary School and approximately 1300 students at Patterson Park High School in Baltimore, Maryland. At Patterson High School, the Mindful Moment program engages the school's faculty along with the students during a 15-minute mindfulness practice at the beginning and end of each school day.\n\nMindful Life Project, a non-profit 501(c)3 based out of Richmond, California, teaches mindfulness to elementary school students in underserved schools in the South Richmond school district. Utilizing curriculum, “Rise-Up” is a regular school day intervention program serving 430 students weekly, while “Mindful Community” is currently implemented at six South Richmond partner schools. These in-school mindfulness programs have been endorsed by Richmond Mayor Gayle McLaughlin, who has recommended additional funding to expand the program in order to serve all Richmond youth.\n\nMindfulness practices are becoming more common within educational institutions including Elementary and Secondary schools. This has been referred to as part of a 'contemplative turn' in education that has emerged since the turn of the millennium. The applications of mindfulness in schools are aimed at calming and relaxation of students as well as for students and educators to build compassion and empathy for others. An additional benefit to Mindfulness in education is for the practice to reduce anxiety and stress in students. Based on a broad meta-analytical review, scholars argued that the application of mindfulness practice enhances the goals of education in the 21st century, which include adapting to a rapidly changing world and being a caring and committed citizen. Within educational systems, the application of mindfulness practices shows an improvement of students' attention and focus, emotional regulation, creativity, and problem solving skills. As discussed by Ergas and Todd, the development of this field since the turn of the millennium has brought diverse possibilities as well as complexities, given the origins of mindfulness within Buddhism and the processes of its secularization and measurement based on science.\n\nRenshaw and Cook state, “As scientific interest in the utility of Mindfulness-Based Intervention (MBI) in schools grew steadily, popular interest in mindfulness in schools seemed to grow exponentially”. Despite research on mindfulness being comparatively unexamined, especially with young students, the practice has seen a spike in use within the educational arena. “A relatively recent addition to discourse around preventing school expulsion and failure, mindfulness is gaining popularity for its potential to improve students’ social, emotional, behavioral, and learning-related cognitive control, thereby improving academic outcomes”. Researchers and educators are interested in how mindfulness can provide optimal conditions for a students’ personal development and academic success. Current research on mindfulness in education is limited but can provide insight to the potential benefits for students, and areas of improvement for future studies.\n\nMindfulness in the classroom is being touted as a promising new intervention tool for young students. According to Choudhury and Moses, “Although still marginal and in some cases controversial, secular programs of mindfulness have been implemented with ambitious goals of improving attentional focus of pupils, social-emotional learning in “at-risk” children and youth, not least, to intervene in problems of poverty and incarceration”. Emerging research is concerned with studying teachers and programs using mindfulness practices with students, and is discovering tension arising from the moral reframing of eastern practices in western school settings. As cited by Renshaw and Cook, “Unlike most other approaches to contemporary school-based intervention, which are squarely grounded in behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, and ecological systems theories, MBIs have their origins in Eastern religious traditions”. Some school administrators are concerned about implementing such practices, and parents have been reported to take their children out of mindfulness programs because of their personal religious beliefs. Yet, MBI’s continue to be accepted by the mainstream in both primary and secondary schools because, “Mindfulness practices, particularly in relationship to children who might otherwise be considered broken or unredeemable, fill a critical niche – one that allows its advocates to imagine a world where people can change, become more compassionate, resilient, reflective, and aware; a world with a viable future”. As mindfulness in education continues to develop, ethical consequences will remain a controversial issue because the generic description for the “benefits” and “results” of MBI’s are largely concerned with individual and inward-focused achievement, rather than the original Buddhist ideal of global human connection.\n\nAvailable research reveals a relationship between mindfulness and attention. Semple, Lee, Rosa, & Miller argue, “Anxiety can impair attention and promote emotionally reactive behaviors that interfere with the development of good study skills, so it seems reasonable that increased mindfulness would be associated with less anxiety”. They conducted a randomized trial of Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy for Children (MBCT-C) that found promise in managing anxiety for elementary school-aged children, and suggests that those who completed the program displayed fewer attention problems. In addition, Flook shows how an eight-week mindfulness awareness program was evaluated in a random and controlled school setting, and measured the effects of awareness practices on executive functions in elementary school children. Their findings concluded, “Participation in the mindfulness awareness program was associated with improvements in behavioral regulation, metacognition, and overall executive functions”. In the study by Flook parents and teachers completed questionnaires which propose that participation in mindfulness programs is associated with improvements in child behavioral regulation. These perspectives are a valuable source of data given that caregivers and educators interact with the children daily and across a variety of settings. According to Eklund, Omalley, and Meyer, “School-based practitioners should find promise in the evidence supporting mindfulness-based practices with children, parents, and educators”. Lastly, a third study by Zenner, Herrnleben-Kurz, and Walach concluded, “Analysis suggest that mindfulness-based interventions for children and youths are able to increase cognitive capacity of attending and learning by nearly one standard deviation and yield”. Application of Mindfulness-Based Interventions continue to increase in popularity and practice.\n\nMindfulness-Based Interventions are rising across western culture, but its effectiveness in school programs is still being determined. Research contends, “Mindfulness-based approaches for adults are effective at enhancing mental health, but few controlled trials have evaluated their effectiveness among young people”. Although much of the available studies find a high number of mindfulness acceptability among students and teachers, more research needs to be conducted on its effects on well-being and mental-health for students. A firmly controlled experiment, Johnson, Burke, Brinkman, and Wade evaluated “the impact of an existing and widely available school-based mindfulness program, no improvements were demonstrated on any outcome measured either immediately post intervention or at three-month follow-up”. Many questions remain on which practices best implement effective and reliable mindfulness programs at schools, and further research is needed to identify the optimal methods and measurement tools for mindfulness in education.\n\nMindfulness training appears to be getting popular in the business world, and many large corporations have been incorporating practicing mindfulness into their culture. For example, companies such as Google, Apple, Procter & Gamble, General Mills, Mayo Clinic, and the U.S. Army offer mindfulness coaching, meditation breaks and other resources to their employees to improve workplace functioning. Mindfulness has been found to result in better employee well-being, lower levels of frustration, lower absenteeism and burnout as well as an improved overall work environment. Since high levels of mindfulness correlate with ethical decision-making and increase personal awareness and emotional regulation, mindfulness training has been suggested as way to promote ethical intentions and behavior for business students.\n\nLegal and law enforcement organizations are also showing interest in mindfulness:\n\nMindfulness has been taught in prisons, reducing hostility and mood disturbance among inmates, and improving their self-esteem. Additional studies indicate that mindfulness interventions can result in significant reductions in anger, reductions in substance use, increased relaxation capacity, self-regulation and optimism.\n\nMany government organizations offer mindfulness training. Coping Strategies is an example of a program utilized by United States Armed Forces personnel. The British Parliament organized a mindfulness-session for its members in 2014, led by Ruby Wax.\n\nMindfulness has gained increasing empirical attention since 1970. According to a 2015 systematic review and meta-analysis of systematic reviews of RCTs (that included a combined total of 8683 participants consisting of different patient categories as well as healthy adults and children), evidence supports the use of mindfulness programs to alleviate symptoms of a variety of mental and physical disorders. Other reviews report similar findings.\n\nA meta-analysis on meditation research published in JAMA in 2014, (that included a combined total of 3515 participants), found insufficient evidence of any effect of meditation programs on positive mood, attention, substance use, eating habits, sleep, and weight. However, this study included a highly heterogeneous group of meditation styles (i.e., it did not focus exclusively on mindfulness meditation), which is a significant limitation of this study. \n\nThousands of studies on meditation have been conducted, though the overall methodological quality of some of the studies is poor. Recent reviews have pointed out many of these issues. Nonetheless, mindfulness meditation is a popular subject for research, and many claim potential benefits for a wide array of conditions and outcomes. For example, the practice of mindfulness has been used as a potential tool for weight management, to achieve optimal athletic performance, as a beneficial intervention for children with special needs and their parents, as a viable treatment option for people with insomnia an effective intervention for healthy aging, as a strategy for managing dermatological conditions and as a useful intervention during pregnancy and the perinatal period. Recent studies have also demonstrated that mindfulness meditation significantly attenuates physical pain through multiple, unique mechanisms.\n\nResearch studies have also focused on the effects of mindfulness on the brain using neuroimaging techniques, physiological measures and behavioral tests. Research on the neural perspective of how mindfulness meditation works suggests that it exerts its effects in components of attention regulation, body awareness and emotional regulation. When considering aspects such as sense of responsibility, authenticity, compassion, self-acceptance and character, studies have shown that mindfulness meditation contributes to a more coherent and healthy sense of self and identity. Neuroimaging techniques suggest that mindfulness practices such as mindfulness meditation are associated with “changes in the anterior cingulate cortex, insula, temporo-parietal junction, fronto-limbic network and default mode network structures.\" Further, mindfulness meditation may prevent or delay the onset of mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, mindfulness-induced emotional and behavioral changes have been found to be related to functional and structural changes in the brain. It has also been suggested that the default mode network of the brain can be used as a potential biomarker for monitoring the therapeutic benefits of meditation. Recent research also suggest that the practice of mindfulness could influence genetic expression leading to a reduced risk of inflammation-related diseases and favourable changes in biomarkers.\n\nMindfulness-based approaches have been tested for a range of health problems including anxiety disorder, mood disorder, substance abuse disorder, eating disorders, chronic pain, ADHD, insomnia, coping with medical conditions, with many populations including children, adolescents, parents, teachers, therapists, and physicians. As a major subject of increasing research interest, 52 papers were published in 2003, rising to 477 by 2012. Nearly 100 randomized controlled trials had been published by early 2014.\n\nGrey matter concentrations in brain regions that regulate emotion, self-referential processing, learning and memory processes have shown changes in density following MBSR. Additionally, MBSR practice has been associated with improvement of the immune system which could explain the correlation between stress reduction and increased quality of life. Part of these changes are a result of the thickening of the prefrontal cortex (executive functioning) and hippocampus (learning and memorisation ability), the shrinking of the amygdala (emotion and stress response) and the strengthening of the connections between brain cells. Long-term meditators have larger amounts of gyrification (“folding” of the cortex, which may allow the brain to process information faster) than people who do not meditate. Further, a direct correlation was found between the amount of gyrification and the number of meditation years, possibly providing further proof of the brain’s neuroplasticity, or ability to adapt to environmental changes.\n\nA 2013 statement from the American Heart Association said that, when it comes to lowering blood pressure, that behavioral therapies, transcendental meditation, other meditation techniques, yoga, other relaxation therapies, and biofeedback approaches generally had modest, mixed, or no consistent evidence demonstrating their efficacy. Exercise-based regimens, such as aerobics, had relatively stronger supporting evidence. \n\nNevertheless, MBSR can have a beneficial effect helping with the depression and psychological distress associated with chronic illness. Meditation also may allow you to modulate pain stronger. When participants in research were exposed to pain from heating, the brainsscans of the mindfulness meditation group (by use of functional magnetic resonance imaging) showed their brains notice the pain equally, however it does not get converted to a perceived pain signal. As such they experienced up to 40–50% less pain.\n\nPreliminary evidence suggests efficacy of mindfulness meditation in the treatment of substance use disorders; however, further study is required. MBSR might be beneficial for people with fibromyalgia: there is no evidence of long-term benefit but low-quality evidence of a small short-term benefit.\n\nMindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) is suggested to have positive results for the improvement of attention regulation, intelligence-related measures, creativity, learning ability, cognitive style, motor skills and perceptional abilities.\n\nMindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) is also suggested to enact comparable neurophysiological effects related to attention and self-regulation as pharmacological treatments for ADHD.\n\nMany of the above cited review studies however also indicate the necessity for more high-quality research in this field such as conducting intervention studies using larger sample sizes, the use of more randomized controlled studies and the need for providing more methodological details in reported studies. There are also a few review studies that have found little difference between mindfulness interventions and control groups, though they did also indicate that their intervention group was treated too shortly for the research to be conclusive. These studies also list the need for more robust research investigations. Several issues pertaining to the assessment of mindfulness have also been identified including the current use of self-report questionnaires. Potential for bias also exists to the extent that researchers in the field are also practitioners and possibly subject to pressures to publish positive or significant results.\n\nVarious scholars have criticized how mindfulness has been defined or represented in recent western psychology publications.\nThese modern understandings depart significantly from the accounts of mindfulness in early Buddhist texts and authoritative commentaries in the Theravada and Indian Mahayana traditions. Adam Valerio has introduced the idea that conflict between academic disciplines over how mindfulness is defined, understood, and popularly presented may be indicative of a personal, institutional, or paradigmatic battle for ownership over mindfulness, one where academics, researchers, and other writers are invested as individuals in much the same way as religious communities.\n\nThe popularization of mindfulness as a \"commodity\" has been criticized, being termed \"McMindfulness\" by some critics. According to Safran, the popularity of mindfulness is the result of a marketing strategy:\n\"McMindfulness is the marketing of a constructed dream; an idealized lifestyle; an identity makeover.\"\n\nAccording to Purser and Loy, mindfulness is not being used as a means to awaken to insight in the \"unwholesome roots of greed, ill will and delusion,\" but reshaped into a \"banal, therapeutic, self-help technique\" that has the opposite effect of reinforcing those passions. While mindfulness is marketed as a means to reduce stress, in a Buddhist context it is part of an all-embracing ethical program to foster \"wise action, social harmony, and compassion.\" The privatization of mindfulness neglects the societal and organizational causes of stress and discomfort, instead propagating adaptation to these circumstances. According to Bhikkhu Bodhi, \"[A]bsent a sharp social critique, Buddhist practices could easily be used to justify and stabilize the status quo, becoming a reinforcement of consumer capitalism.\" The popularity of this new brand of mindfulness has resulted in the commercialization of meditation through self-help books, guided meditation classes, and mindfulness retreats.\n\nBuddhist commentators have criticized the movement as being presented as equivalent to Buddhist practice, while in reality it is very possibly denatured with undesirable consequences, such as being ungrounded in the traditional reflective morality and therefore, astray from traditional Buddhist ethics. Criticisms suggest it to be either de-moralized or re-moralized into clinically based ethics. The conflict is often presented in concern to the teacher's credentials and qualifications, rather than the student's actual practice. Reformed Buddhist-influenced practices are being standardized and manualized in a clearly distinct separation from Buddhism seen as a religion based in monastic temples, as expressed as mindfulness in a new psychology ethic practiced in modern meditation centers.\n\nIn media reports, people have attributed unexpected effects of increasing fear and anxiety, panic or \"meltdowns\" after practicing, which they suggest could expose bipolar vulnerability or repressed PTSD symptoms. However, according to published peer-reviewed academic articles, these negative effects of meditation are rare for mindfulness meditation, and appear to happen due to a poor understanding of what actually constitutes mindfulness/meditation practices.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1404424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1404424", "title": "Mumbi", "text": "Mumbi\n\nMũmbi is a mythological figure regarded as the mother of the Gĩkũyũ people. The word Mũmbi can be translated as \"one who moulds\". She was the wife of Gĩkũyũ, and ancestor to all the Agĩkũyũ people. The story of Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi has been recorded by various writers throughout the Gĩkũyũ history; notable among them are Jomo Kenyatta, the first president of independent Kenya, Louis Leakey and the prolific Gĩkũyũ writer Gakaara wa Wanjaũ and another Gĩkũyũ writer known as Mathew Njoroge Kabetũ among many others.\nThe name Mumbi comes from the Bantu root verb \"BA\",the same root word that gives rise to \"UMBA\".The prefix \"Mu\" is the Bantu noun classifier for nouns that have souls, like humans.The verb UMBA indicates the action of moulding, shaping, designing or creating. The suffix \"i\" replaces the terminal \"a\" in the Bantu language noun or verb to create the name for the performer of the action.Being derived from a Bantu root, the word Mumbi is also widely used by the Kamba ethnic community. Among the Kamba community the name carries the same meaning as among the Kikuyu's.\n\nThe story of the origin of the Agĩkũyũ:\n\nGod (Ngai or Mũgai – The Divider) created Gĩkũyũ the father of the tribe and took him on top of Kĩrĩ-Nyaga (Mount Kenya) and showed him all the land that he had given him: West from Mount Kenya to the Aberdares, on to Ngong Hills and Kilimambogo, then north to Garba Tula. He further promised Gikuyu that he would bequeath him all what Gikuyu laid his eyes on. He then pointed to him a spot full of fig trees (Mũkũyũ) and he commanded him to descend and establish his homestead on the selected spot known as Mũkũrwe wa Gathanga (in present-day Muranga County). When Gĩkũyũ descended to the spot he found a beautiful wife waiting for him, Mũmbi. Together, Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi had nine beautiful daughters: Wanjirũ, Wambũi, Wanjikũ, Wangũi aka Waithiegeni, Wangeci aka Waithĩra, Wanjeeri aka Waceera, Nyambura aka Wakĩũrũ, Wairimũ aka Gathiigia, and Wangarĩ. These nine daughters founded the nine Kikuyu clans. Gikuyu and Mumbi had a tenth daughter named Wamũyũ aka Warigia, who as a result of having went on to found or establish the Akamaba tribe. All the ten daughters' names are very popular names for Gikũyũ females today.\n\nWhen the time came for the 9 eldest daughters to marry, the youngest Wamũyũ not yet being of age, Gĩkũyũ prayed to God under a holy fig tree (Mũkũyũ, some say Mũgumo), as was his tradition, to send him sons-in-law. He offered a lamb as sacrifice and as the fire was consuming the lamb’s body, nine men appeared and walked out of the flames. Gĩkũyũ took them home and each daughter married the man who was the same height as she was, and together they gave rise to the nine of the full-nine clans to which all Gĩkũyũs belong. Wamũyũ or Warigia got a child out of wedlock. These clans are the Anjirũ, Agacikũ, Ambũi, Angũi aka Aithiegeni, Angechi aka Aithĩrandũ, Aacera, Ambura aka Aakĩũrũ aka Eethaga, Airimũ aka Agathiigia, Angarĩ aka Aithekahuno and Aicakamũyũ. \n\nThe Agĩkũyũ refer to each other as Andũ a Nyũmba ya Mũmbi or persons of the house or home of Mũmbi. Shortly before a state of emergency was declared by the imperialists in colonial Kenya on the night of 20 October 1952, the name of Mũmbi was invoked as a rallying call to unite the Agĩkũyũ in a fight for the independence of Kenya, under the banner of what came to be known as Mau Mau Uprising. Gakaara wa Wanjaũ published the Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi creed, for which the colonial government put him in detention till 1960. Parallel to that several song books would be published under the name of Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi.\nMũmbi is used as a female Gĩkũyũ name.\n\n"}
{"id": "519017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519017", "title": "Nezamiyeh", "text": "Nezamiyeh\n\nThe Nizamiyyah (from , ) are a group of the medieval institutions of higher education established by Khwaja Nizam al-Mulk in the eleventh century in Iran. The name \"nizamiyyah\" derives from his name. Founded at the beginning of the Seljuk Empire, these Sunni Islam theological schools are considered to be the model of later madrasahs, or Islamic religious schools.\n\nNizamiyyah institutes were among the first well organized institutions of higher learning in the Muslim world. The quality of education was among the highest in the Islamic world, and they were even renowned in Europe. They were supported financially, politically, and spiritually by the royal establishment and the elite class. Some scholars have suggested that the establishment of the Nizamiyya madrasas was in fact an attempt to thwart the growing influence of another group of Muslims, the Ismailis, in the region. Indeed, Nizam al-Mulk devoted a significant section in his famous \"Books of Politics (Siyāsatnāma)\" to refuting the Ismaili doctrines.\n\nThe most famous and celebrated of all the nizamiyyah schools was Al-Nizamiyya of Baghdad (established 1065), where Khwaja Nizam al-Mulk appointed the distinguished philosopher and theologian, al-Ghazali, as a professor. Persian poet Sa'di was a student of the Baghdad Nizamiyyah. Other nizamiyyah schools were located in Nishapur, Amol, Balkh, Herat and Isfahan.\n\nNizam ul-Mulk was finally assassinated en route from Isfahan to Baghdad in 1092 CE. According to several books, he was assassinated by a member of Hashshashin, a group of the Ismaili sect of Shi'a Islam.\n\nAccording to Mughatil ibn Bakri, a staff member of the Al-Nizamiyya of Baghdad, he alleges that Nizam al-Mulk converted to Shia Islam after a Sunni-Shia debate held on the orders of Sultan Malik Shah I, who also converted to Shia'ism. But it is thereafter that they were both assassinated. This narration is disputed, however, by most historians and Sunni scholars.\n\nThe curriculum initially focused on religious studies, Islamic law, Arabic literature, and arithmetic, and later extended to history, mathematics, the physical sciences, and music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1895176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1895176", "title": "Nipponzan-Myōhōji-Daisanga", "text": "Nipponzan-Myōhōji-Daisanga\n\n, often referred to as just Nipponzan Myohoji or the Japan Buddha Sangha, is a Japanese new religious movement and activist group founded in 1917 by Nichidatsu Fujii, emerging from Nichiren Buddhism. \"Nipponzan Myōhōji is a small Nichiren Buddhist order of about 1500 persons, including both monastics and lay persons.\" The community reveres the \"Lotus Sutra\" as the highest expression of the Buddhist message.\n\nIn addition, it is actively engaged worldwide in the peace movement. It is the most pacifist group in Japan of seven religious movements surveyed by Robert Kisala. The main practice of Nichiren Buddhism is to chant \"Namu Myōhō Renge Kyō\". Nipponzan-Myōhōji monks, nuns and followers beat hand drums while chanting the \"Daimoku\", and walk throughout the world promoting peace and non-violence. They try to explain the meaning of their ministry to all wishing to understand it.\n\nThe most recognizable achievement of Nipponzan-Myōhōji is peace pagodas (stupas), that have been erected in various locations around the world, the first of which was inaugurated in 1954 at Kumamoto in Japan. Since then cities such as London, New Delhi, Vienna and Tokyo have all received peace pagodas.\n\nIt has also undertaken numerous peace pilgrimages made by its followers. One of the most prominent of these was the 1994–1995 pilgrimage from Auschwitz to Hiroshima by way of Bosnia, Iraq, Cambodia and other countries then experiencing the effects of war. That pilgrimage was known as The Interfaith Pilgrimage for Peace and Life. A more recent walk was the 2010 Walk for a Nuclear Free Future, a walk across the United States in support of a nuclear-free future.\n\nMany argue that the order shows a certain political stance with its active opposition to the nuclear industry in Japan and U.S involvement in Okinawa. This has led to a difference in views with fellow Nichiren sect Soka Gakkai, who are often viewed as more conservative.\n\n"}
{"id": "2763176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2763176", "title": "Our Lady of Aparecida", "text": "Our Lady of Aparecida\n\nOur Lady of Aparecida ( or ) a title of the Blessed Virgin Mary in the traditional form associated with the Immaculate Conception associated with a clay statue bearing the same title. The image is widely venerated by Brazilian Catholics, who consider her as the principal patroness of Brazil. Historical accounts state that the statue was originally found by three fishermen who miraculously caught many fish after invoking the Blessed Virgin Mary.\n\nThe statue is currently housed in the Basilica of the National Shrine of Our Lady of Aparecida in Aparecida, São Paulo, Brazil.\n\nColonial documents and papal bulls have referred to the image as \"Nossa Senhora da Conceição Aparecida\". The Roman Rite feast day of Our Lady of Aparecida is on October 12, which since 1980 is also a public holiday in Brazil. The building in which it is venerated was granted the title of minor basilica by Pope John Paul II in 1980, and is the largest Marian shrine in the world, being able to hold up to 45,000 worshippers.\n\nControversy about the statue was ignited in May 1978 by an intruder who stole the clay statue, which was smashed as he was apprehended, from its shrine, and again in 1995, when a Protestant minister insulted and vandalized a copy of the statue on Brazilian national television.\n\nThe following papal documents concern the famed statue:\n\n\nAccording to the account of the discovery of the statue in October 1717, Dom Pedro de Almeida, Count of Assumar and Governor of the Province of São Paulo and Minas Gerais, was passing through the area of Guaratinguetá, a small city in the Paraíba river valley, during a trip to Vila Rica, an important gold mining site.\n\nAs the people of Guaratinguetá decided to hold a feast in his honour, three fishermen, Domingos Garcia, João Alves, and Filipe Pedroso went down to the Paraíba waters to fish. The fishermen prayed to Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception that God would grant a good catch. The fishermen, having a run of bad luck, cast their nets in the River Paraiba and dragged up a headless statue of the Virgin Mary. They also salvaged the head and, according to the legend, then netted plenty of fish. After cleaning the statue, they found that it was a black version of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception. Legend has it that when the fishermen recovered the body, then the head, the slender figure of the Aparecida Virgin became so heavy that they couldn't budge it.\n\nThe fishermen named the statue \"Nossa Senhora da Conceição Aparecida\" (). Neighbors began to venerate the statue, which came to be known as Our Lady of Aparecida, and devotion grew. The first chapel was built in 1745.\n\nDevotion to the statue grew rapidly, particularly among Afro-Brazilians, not only for its black Madonna status, but also because it was reported to have performed a miracle for an enslaved young man. Over the years following its discovery, veneration of the Virgin invoked as Aparecida increased as many miracles were attributed to her. For the following fifteen years, the statue remained within Filipe Pedroso's family, and neighbors came to venerate it. Stories of Our Lady of Aparecida's miracles were spread throughout Brazil, and the Pedroso family built her a chapel which soon became too small for so many worshippers. In 1737 the priest of Guaratinguetá built her a chapel on the Morro dos Coqueiros (Hill of Coconut Palms), where public visits began in July 1745.\n\nThe number of worshippers increased dramatically, and in 1834 work on a larger church was begun; this became known as the \"Old Basilica\" when work on the even larger \"New Basilica\" was started in 1955; it received pontifical approbation in 1980.\n\nAccording to a local tale the clay statue was imported from Portugal; others say that it was made by Frei Agostinho de Jesus, a monk from São Paulo known for crafting artistic sacred images in clay. The small statue is less than three feet tall. The image was made around 1650, and must have been underwater for years, since it lost its original polychromy.\n\nThe image is dark brown, and covered by a stiff dark blue robe of richly embroidered thick cloth emblazoned with the flags of Brazil and the Vatican City State with golden clasps. An imperial crown was added in 1904.\n\nA bronze replica of the same image is sponsored by the Embassy of Brazil to the Vatican and was approved for installation within the Gardens of the Vatican City under the mandate of Pope Francis, officially held on 3 September 2016.\n\nAt the written request of Emperor Pedro I of Brazil, Pope Leo XII declared Saint Peter of Alcantara the \"Patron of Brazil\" on 31 May 1826. The ruler of Brazil at that time, Pedro I (born Prince Pedro de Alcantara), was named after Saint Peter of Alcantara. Later, as the Virgin Mary outranks St. Peter of Alcantara in the Catholic hierarchy of saints, with the proclamation of the Virgin Aparecida as the principal Catholic patron saint of Brazil, St. Peter became the secondary patron.\n\nOn the Feast of the Immaculate Conception 1904, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the 1854 proclamation of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception, the statue of Our Lady Aparecida was Canonically crowned by the archbishop of São Paulo, Lino Deodato Rodrigues, at the decree of the Holy See and in the presence of the Apostolic Nuncio. The Coronation was performed in the name and on behalf of Pope Pius X who granted this approval. The papal coronation of the image of Aparecida was a major event attended by many people and by civil authorities including President Rodrigues Alves, who made the point of witnessing the act in spite of the separation of Church and State that had been instituted when Brazil became a Republic, less than twenty years before. The gold used for the manufacture of the Crown was donated by the head of Brazil's Imperial Family, the exiled Princess Isabel.\n\nAfter the pontifical coronation of 1904 the Holy See granted a divine office and Mass for her feast day.\n\nTwenty years later, the village that had grown around the church on Coqueiros hill became a municipality, named after the saint.\n\nOn 16 July 1930, Pope Pius XI declared the Immaculate Conception under the title of \"Our Lady of Aparecida\" to be the principal patroness of Brazil, namely widespread in the Archdiocese of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe pontifical decree indicated that Pope Leo XIII granted the approval on the devotion of the image under the title \"Nossa Senhora da Conceição Apparecida\". In addition, Saint Pope Pius X established the Office of the Mass under this honor and allowing this devotion to spread due to the widespread piety of the Brazilian people. The Papal decree mentions the 1904 solid gold crown given to the image (assumingly from Isabel, Princess Imperial of Brazil). It does not however, mention the shrine being elevated to a minor basilica.\n\nFurthermore, the devotion was researched and approved by Cardinal Camillo Laurenti, Prefect of the Sacred Congregation of Rites. The papal bull was signed and witnessed by Cardinal Eugenio Pacelli.\nIn the wake of the papal decree naming Our Lady Aparecida Patroness of Brazil, on July 16, 1930, Cardinal Sebastião Leme da Silveira Cintra, the Archbishop of Rio de Janeiro (then the Capital of Brazil), rededicated Brazil to the Virgin under this Marian title.\n\nUp until the early 1950s, Aparecida remained an unassuming city with a small community of Redemptorists. They arrived from the sanctuary of the Virgin of Altötting in Germany and took on the responsibility for the shrine of Our Lady Aparecida, making it the first Redemptorist parish in Latin America. Devotion to the Marian image grew under Padre Vítor Coelho (1899-1987), a Redemptorist priest and catechist. In 1958, due to the growth of the Catholic community around the Marian Shrine of Aparecida, the Holy See decided to erect the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Aparecida, separating its territory in part from the Archdiocese of São Paulo and in part from the Diocese of Taubaté and transferring three suffragan Dioceses that previously were subject to the Metropolitan Archbishop of São Paulo to form the new ecclesiastical province of Aparecida. The new See was led by administrators until 1964, when the first Archbishop of Aparecida was appointed.\n\nContrary to popular belief, John Paul II was the first Pope to consecrate the shrine with the title of Basilica on July 4, 1980. In his Apostolic message, the Pontiff mentioned the coronation of 1904, the Patronage granted in 1930, and his culminating purpose of consecration of the shrine as a Basilica during that time. By research in Vatican documents, there is no mention of 1908 proclamations of the shrine as a Basilica by the Pope or any Vatican prelate.\n\nPope Francis installed a replica of the same Marian image within the Vatican Gardens in September 2016 via the diplomatic efforts of the Brazilian embassy to the Holy See.\n\nThe image became the source of religious conflicts between Catholics and Protestants, primarily driven by non-mainline churches identified with charismatic, evangelical, or fundamentalist theology, including all branches of Pentecostalism, due to the nature of Catholic Marian devotion associated with the religious image.\n\nOn May 16, 1978, a person identified as a member of a Protestant sect took the statue from its niche on the Basilica after the last Mass of the day. He was chased by guards and some of the church goers. As he was caught, the statue fell to the ground breaking to pieces; a group of artists and artisans pieced it together again.\nOn her feast day in 1995, a public holiday, an incident later known as \"kicking of the saint\" took place when televangelist Sérgio Von Helder (or Helde), of the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God (UCKG), insulted and kicked a replica of Our Lady of Aparecida, and said that \"it could not do anything for you\", on a late-night religious program broadcast by UCKG television station Rede Record. On the following day, Rede Globo's \"Jornal Nacional\" denounced the incident, causing a nationwide commotion. The event was perceived by Catholics as a major act of religious intolerance, causing a public outcry. Several temples of the UCKG were targeted by protesters, and Von Helder was transferred to South Africa until the end of the controversy.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, as the popularity of Our Lady of Aparecida grew, the construction of a much larger building to shelter the image became necessary. In 1955, work on the present Basilica of the National Shrine of Our Lady of Aparecida was begun. Architect Benedito Calixto designed a building in the form of a Greek cross. It can hold up to 45,000 people.\n\nOn July 4, 1980, while still under construction, the new church was consecrated by Pope John Paul II and given the title of Minor Basilica. It is currently the largest Marian temple and the second largest Basilica in the world, second only to St. Peter's in the Vatican City.\n\nSince then, the two Basilicas in the city of Aparecida have been known as the \"Old Basilica\" and the \"New Basilica\". Upon its completion, the Brazilian Conference of Catholic Bishops declared the new Basilica a National Shrine.\n\nAs the National Shrine, dedicated to the patroness of Brazil, one of the functions of the Basilica is to function as a site of pilgrimage for laborers. The traditional pilgrimage of the laborers takes place each year on Brazil's independence holiday, September 7. According to recent estimates, the Basilica attracts about 8 million pilgrims a year.\n\nThe influence of Our Lady of Aparecida on Brazilian Catholic society is incalculable. In 1992 a study showed that 296 parishes were dedicated to her while five cathedrals had the same title. In addition, many towns are named after the Virgin and so are many Brazilian women and girls. The modern art styled cathedral of Brasilia designed by Oscar Niemeyer is dedicated to Our Lady Aparecida, as Brasilia is the national capital and she is invoked as Brazil's special protector.\n\nIn 2004, to commemorate the centennial of the pontifical coronation commanded by Pope Pius X and the 150th anniversary of the dogmatic definition of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the statue of Our Lady of Aparecida was granted a renewed canonical coronation by the Holy See. The renewed coronation was presided by the Archbishop emeritus of Rio de Janeiro, Cardinal Eugênio Sales, in the capacity of special papal envoy of Pope John Paul II.\n\nOn May 12, 2007 Pope Benedict XVI granted the Basilica of the National Shrine of Our Lady Aparecida a Golden Rose. The \"Old Basilica\" also possesses a Golden Rose, awarded by Pope Paul VI on August 12, 1967 and presented by the Apostolic Nuncio; it was a gift of the Holy See to mark the Pope's participation in the commemorations of the 250th anniversary of the devotion to the Virgin of Aparecida. The \"New Basilica\"'s Golden Rose was presented by Pope Benedict, who visited the Basilica and celebrated Mass there during his 2007 Apostolic visit to Brazil. Pope Francis celebrated Mass at the shrine on July 24, 2013 and entrusted his pontificate as well as the World Youth Day to the maternal protection of the Blessed Virgin Mary.\n\nSince the 19th century, the Feast Day of Our Lady Aparecida is celebrated on October 12. The date coincides with the foundation of the Empire of Brazil in 1822, and is regarded in Brazilian culture as Children's Day. In the Roman Rite Catholic Liturgical Calendar approved for Brazil, the day of Our Lady Aparecida ranks as a solemnity, and is a holy day of obligation. The feast's rank as a day of precept was established by the Holy See at the request of the National Conference of Brazilian Bishops.\n\nThe feast day of Our Lady of Aparecida has been a National Holiday in Brazil since 1980. The federal statute declaring October 12 a national holiday in honour of \"Our Lady of Aparecida\", Patroness of Brazil, was passed by Congress and signed into law on June 30, 1980, during Pope John Paul II's first visit to the country; that was also the first visit by a Pope to Brazil, and during that visit the \"New Basilica\" of Aparecida was consecrated.\n\nThe telenovela \"A Padroeira\" (The Patroness), broadcast on Rede Globo between June 18, 2001 and February 23, 2002, was a fictional portrayal of the finding of the Our Lady of Aparecida statue, loosely based on the 1865 novel \"As Minas de Prata\" by José de Alencar, which itself had been adapted for the telenovela format in 1966 by the now defunct TV Excelsior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40957603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40957603", "title": "Periodeutes", "text": "Periodeutes\n\nA periodeutes, or periodeutai was a kind of specially-ordained visiting priest in various Eastern churches.\n\nThe fifty-seventh canon of the Synod of Laodicea (380) prescribed that the chorepiscopi should be replaced by periodeutai, i.e., priests who have no fixed residence and act as organs of the city bishops.\n\nIn the Maronite Church, a periodeutes or \"bardūt\" is \"a kind of vicar forane who acts for the bishop in the inspection of the rural clergy.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6570226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6570226", "title": "Protopope", "text": "Protopope\n\nA protopope, or protopresbyter, is a priest of higher rank in the Eastern Orthodox and the Byzantine Catholic Churches, generally corresponding to Western Christianity's archpriest or the Latin Church's dean.\n\nThe rights and duties of these dignitaries have varied to some extent at different times and in different local Churches. Roughly, the titles archpriest (in Greek \"archipresbyteros\"), protoiereus ( \"protoiereus\", \"protopresbyteros\"), protopope may be taken as meaning the same thing, though they have occasionally been distinguished.\nThe general idea is that the archpriest has the highest rank in his order; he comes immediately after the bishop. In the fifth century he appears as head of the college of priests, as the bishop's delegate for certain duties of visitation and canonical judgment, as his representative in case of absence or death (\"sede vacante\"). He therefore combined the offices of the Roman Catholic dean of the chapter, vicar-general and vicar capitular. The title recurs constantly in the Early Middle Ages.\nAt imperial Constantinople there was an elaborately organized court of ecclesiastical persons around the Ecumenical Patriarch, whose various places in choir when the patriarch celebrated are given in the Euchologion together with a statement of their duties. Among these the protopope had the first place on the left. \"The protopope stands above the left choir when the pontiff celebrates, he gives to him [the pontiff] Holy Communion and in the same way the pontiff to the protopope and he has all first places [τὰ πρωτεῖα πάντα -\"ta proteia panta\"] in the church\" (Goar, 225). Under him the \"second one\" (ὁ δευτερεύων \"ho deutereuon\"), takes his place in his absence (ibid.). So also Leo Allatius's list, where it is said further that: \"he holds the place [κρατῶν τόπον - \"kraton topon\", as deputy] of the pontiff\" (ibid., 229). He is promoted by presentation to the patriarch, who lays his hand on him with prayer, and the clergy cry \"axios\" (ἄξιος) three times (the rite from Allatius is given by Goar, 238). Goar notes that the protopope, at least to some extent, succeeded to the place of the chorepiscopus. He could ordain lectors; at concelebrations where no bishop is present he presided and said the ekphonesis (ἐκφώνησις - exclamations chanted aloud at the end of prayers and litanies). In the bishop's absence he took his place as president, and had jurisdiction over his fellow-clergy. George Kodinos (fourteenth century) says of the protopope: \"he is first in the tribunal [τοῦ βήματος - \"tou bematos\", in authority] holding the second place after the pontiff\" (De Officiis, I, quoted by Goar 237). \n\nDistinct from the official of the patriarchal court, though bearing the same title, were the protopopes in the country parishes. They correspond to Catholic rural deans, having delegate episcopal jurisdiction for minor cases, from which appeal may be made to the bishop. So Theodore Balsamon (twelfth century): \"It is forbidden by the canons that there should be bishops in small towns and villages, and because of this they ordain for these priests who are protopopes and chorepiscopi\" (\"Syntagma\", III, 142). There are cases in which a protopope in a remote place has episcopal jurisdiction, but not orders, like some vicars Apostolic, or the archpriests in England from 1599 to 1621. In such cases they are distinguished from archpriests and have such officials under them (so the introduction to Nicholas Bulgaris' \"Sacred Catechism\", Venice, l681). \n\nIn modern times the Orthodox (and Eastern Catholic) title of protopope often means hardly more than a complimentary title conveying a certain rank and precedence with sometimes a few unimportant rights. Often in a church that has several priests (as we should say a rector and curates) the first (rector) is called protopope. In imperial Russia, royal Bulgaria, royal Rumania and Habsburg Austria the protopopes had authority over a district containing several parishes which they had to visit occasionally, representing for the clergy the court of first instance. In Orthodox Hungary and Transylvania there are protopresbyterates (eparchies), in which the protopope is elected by clergy and people and rules under the bishop. In these cases he may be compared to our rural deans. Such an office is the highest to which a married Orthodox priest may aspire, since bishops are always monks. In Russia the protopope (protoierei) sometimes wears the Byzantine mitre (but without a cross atop it) and epigonation, but not the omophorion or sakkos.\n\n"}
{"id": "23747240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23747240", "title": "Religion in South Korea", "text": "Religion in South Korea\n\nReligion in South Korea is characterized by the fact that a majority of South Koreans (56.1%) as of the 2015 national census) have no formal affiliation with a religion. Among those who are members of a religious organisation, Protestantism represents (19.7%) of the total population, Buddhism (15.5%), and Catholicism (7.9%). A small percentage of South Koreans (0.8% in total) are members of other religions, including Won Buddhism, Confucianism, Cheondoism, Daesun Jinrihoe, Daejongism, Jeungsanism, and Orthodox Christianity.\n\nBuddhism was influential in ancient times and Christianity had influenced large segments of the population in the 18th and 19th century, yet they grew rapidly in membership only by the mid-20th century, as part of the profound transformations that South Korean society went through in the past century.But it have shown some decline from the year 2000 onwards. Native shamanic religions (i.e. \"Sindo\") remain popular and could represent a large part of the unaffiliated. Indeed, according to a 2012 survey, only 15% of the population declared to be not religious in the sense of \"atheism\". According to the 2015 census, the proportion of the unaffiliated is higher among the youth, about 65% among the 20-years old.\n\nKorea entered the 20th century with an already ingrained Christian presence and a vast majority of the population practicing native religion (Sindo). The latter never gained the high status of a national religious culture comparable to Chinese folk religion and Japan's Shinto; this weakness of Korean Sindo was among the reasons that left a free hand to an early and thorough rooting of Christianity. The population also took part in Confucianising rites and held private ancestor worship. Organised religions and philosophies belonged to the ruling elites, and the long patronage exerted by the Chinese empire led these elites to embrace a particularly strict Confucianism (i.e. Korean Confucianism). Korean Buddhism, despite an erstwhile rich tradition, at the dawn of the 20th century was virtually extinct as a religious institution, after 500 years of suppression under the Joseon kingdom. Christianity had antecedents in the Korean peninsula as early as the 18th century, when the philosophical school of \"Seohak\" supported the religion. With the fall of the Joseon in the last decades of the 19th century, Koreans largely embraced Christianity, since the monarchy itself and the intellectuals looked to Western models to modernise the country and endorsed the work of Catholic and Protestant missionaries. During Japanese colonisation in the first half of the 20th century, the identification of Christianity with Korean nationalism was further strengthened, as the Japanese tried to merge native Sindo with their State Shinto.\n\nWith the division of Korea into two states after 1945, the communist north and the anti-communist south, the majority of the Korean Christian population that had been until then in the northern half of the peninsula, fled to South Korea. It has been estimated that Christians who migrated to the south were more than one million. Throughout the second half of the 20th century, the South Korean state enacted measures to further marginalise indigenous Sindo, at the same time strengthening Christianity and a revival of Buddhism. According to scholars, South Korean censuses do not count believers in indigenous Sindo and underestimate the number of adherents of Sindo sects. Otherwise, statistics compiled by the ARDA estimate that as of 2010, 14.7% of South Koreans practice ethnic religion, 14.2% adhere to new movements, and 10.9% practice Confucianism.\n\nAccording to some observers, the sharp decline of some religions (Catholicism and Buddhism) recorded between the censuses of 2005 and 2015 is due to the change in survey methodology between the two censuses. While the 2005 census was an analysis of the entire population (\"whole survey\") through traditional data sheets compiled by every family, the 2015 census was largely conducted through the internet and was limited to a sample of about 20% of the South Korean population. It has been argued that the 2015 census penalised the rural population, which is more Buddhist and Catholic and less familiar with the internet, while advantaging the Protestant population, which is more urban and has easier access to the internet. Both the Buddhist and the Catholic communities criticised the 2015 census' results.\n\nPrior to the introduction of Buddhism, all Koreans believed in their indigenous religion socially guided by \"mu\" (shamans). Buddhism was introduced from the Chinese Former Qin state in 372 to the northern Korean state of Goguryeo and developed into distinctive Korean forms. At that time, the peninsula was divided into three kingdoms: the aforementioned Goguryeo in the north, Baekje in the southwest, and Silla in the southeast. Buddhism reached Silla only in the 5th century, but it was made the state religion only in that kingdom in the year 552. Buddhism became much more popular in Silla and even in Baekje (both areas now part of modern South Korea), while in Goguryeo the Korean indigenous religion remained dominant. In the following unified state of Goryeo (918–1392) Buddhism flourished, and even became a political force.\n\nThe Joseon kingdom (1392–1910), adopted an especially strict version of Neo-Confucianism (i.e. Korean Confucianism) and suppressed and marginalised Korean Buddhism and Korean shamanism. Buddhist monasteries were destroyed, and their number dropped from several hundreds to a mere thirty-six; Buddhism was eradicated from the life of towns as monks and nuns were prohibited from entering them and were marginalised to the mountains. These restrictions lasted until the 19th century.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the Joseon state was politically and culturally collapsing. The intelligentsia was looking for solutions to invigorate and transform the nation. It was in this critical period that they came into contact with Western Christian missionaries who offered a solution to the plight of Koreans. Christian communities already existed in Joseon since the 17th century, however it was only by the 1880s that the government allowed a large number of Western missionaries to enter the country. Christian missionaries set up schools, hospitals and publishing agencies. The royal family supported Christianity.\n\nDuring the absorption of Korea into the Japanese Empire (1910–1945) the already formed link of Christianity with Korean nationalism was strengthened, as the Japanese tried to impose State Shinto, co-opting within it native Korean Sindo, and Christians refused to take part in Shinto rituals. At the same time, numerous religious movements that since the 19th century had been trying to reform the Korean indigenous religion, notably Cheondoism, flourished.\n\nWith the division of Korea into two states in 1945, the communist north and the anti-communist south, the majority of the Korean Christian population that had been until then in the northern half of the peninsula, fled to South Korea. Christians who resettled in the south were more than one million. Cheondoists, who were concentrated in the north like Christians, remained there after the partition, and South Korea now has no more than few thousands Cheondoists.\n\nThe so-called \"movement to defeat the worship of gods\" promoted by governments of South Korea in the 1970s and 1980s, prohibited indigenous cults and wiped out nearly all traditional shrines (\"sadang\" 사당) of the Confucian kinship religion. This was particularly tough under the rule of Park Chung-hee (a Buddhist).\n\nThis measure, combined with the rapid social changes of the same period, favoured a rapid revival of Korean Buddhism and growth of Christian churches in a trend to register as members of organised religions. The number of Buddhist temples rose from 2,306 in 1962 to 11,561 in 1997, Protestant churches rose from 6,785 in 1962 to 58,046 in 1997, the Catholic Church had 313 churches in 1965 and 1,366 in 2005, Won Buddhism had 131 temples in 1969 and 418 in 1997. Similarly, Daesun Jinrihoe's temples have grown from 700 in 1983 to 1,600 in 1994. Statistics from censuses show that the proportion of the South Korean population self-identifying as Buddhist has grown from 2.6% in 1962 to 22.8% in 2005, while the proportion of Christians has grown from 5% in 1962 to 29.2% in 2005. However, both religions have shown a decline between the years 2005 and 2015, with Buddhism sharply declining in influence to 15.5% of the population, and a less significant decline of Christianity to 27.6%.\n\nSince the 1980s and the 1990s there have been acts of hostility committed by Protestants against Buddhists and followers of traditional religions in South Korea. This include the arson of temples, the beheading of statues of Buddha and bodhisattvas, and red Christian crosses painted on either statues or other Buddhist and other religions' properties. Some of these acts have even been promoted by churches' pastors.\n\nIn 2018, a mass protest broke out in support of freedom of religion and against the government's inaction on widespread programs of violent forced conversion carried out by Christian churches under the guide of the Christian Council of Korea (CCK), just after a woman named Ji-In Gu, one among approximately a thousand victims of the churches, was kidnapped and killed while being forced to convert. Before being killed, Ji-In Gu dedicated herself in exposing the conversion treatments, and for such reason she had become a target of the Christian churches.\n\nChristianity (그리스도교 \"Geurisdogyo\" or 기독교 \"Gidoggyo\") in South Korea is predominantly Catholic (천주교 \"Cheonjugyo\", \"religion of the Lord of Heaven\", or 가톨릭 교회 \"Gatollik gyohoe\") and Protestant (열교 \"Yeolgyo\", \"religion of split\", or 개신교 \"Gaesingyo\", \"religion of the innovators\"), respectively with 3.8 million and 9.6 million members as of the 2015 census. There are also small communities of Eastern Orthodoxy (정교회 \"Jeonggyohoe\", \"authentic church\") under the jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, and Coptic Orthodoxy (콥트 정교회 \"Kopteu Jeonggyohoe\").\n\nForeign Roman Catholic missionaries did not arrive in Korea until 1794, a decade after the return of Yi Sung-hun, a diplomat who was the first baptised Korean in Beijing. He established a grass roots lay Catholic movement in Korea. However, the writings of the Jesuit missionary Matteo Ricci, who was resident at the imperial court in Beijing, had been already brought to Korea from China in the 17th century. Scholars of the \"Silhak\" (\"Practical Learning\") were attracted to Catholic doctrines, and this was a key factor for the spread of the Catholic faith in the 1790s. The penetration of Western ideas and Christianity in Korea became known as \"Seohak\" (\"Western Learning\"). A study of 1801 found that more than half of the families that had converted to Catholicism were linked to the Seohak school. Largely because converts refused to perform Confucian ancestral rituals, the Joseon government prohibited Christian proselytising. Some Catholics were executed during the early 19th century, but the restrictive law was not strictly enforced.\n\nProtestant missionaries entered Korea during the 1880s and, along with Catholic priests, converted a remarkable number of Koreans, this time with the support of the royal government which winked at Westernising forces in a period of deep internal crisis (due to the waning of centuries-long patronage from a then-weakened China). The lack of a national religious system compared to those of China and that of Japan (Korean Sindo never developed to a high status of institutional and civic religion) gave a free hand to Christian churches. Methodist and Presbyterian missionaries were especially successful. They established schools, universities, hospitals, and orphanages and played a significant role in the modernisation of the country. \n\nMany Koreans began to migrate to Russia in the 1860s and many of them subsequently converted to Eastern Orthodox Church. Orthodox missionaries entered Korea from Russia in 1900. In 1903, the first Orthodox Church in Korea was established. However, the Russo-Japanese war in 1904 and the Russian Revolution in 1918 interrupted the activities of the mission.\n\nDuring the Japanese colonial occupation, Christians were in the front ranks of the struggle for independence. Factors contributing to the growth of Catholicism and Protestantism included the decayed state of Korean Buddhism, the support of the intellectual elite, and the encouragement of self-support and self-government among members of the Korean church, and finally the identification of Christianity with Korean nationalism.\n\nA large number of Christians lived in the northern part of the peninsula (it was part of the so-called \"Manchurian revival\") where Confucian influence was not as strong as in the south. Before 1948 Pyongyang was an important Christian centre: one-sixth of its population of about 300,000 people were converts. Following the establishment of the communist regime in the north, an estimated more than one million Korean Christians resettled to South Korea to escape persecution by North Korea's anti-Christian policies. And at that time, the small Orthodox community of Korea received support from South Koreans ally Greece. So, Korean Orthodox faithful requested to come under the spiritual care of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople in 1955 and the Ecumenical Patriarchate took the Korean Orthodox Church under its protection in 1956.\n\nChristianity grew significantly in the 1970s and 1980s. In the 1990s it continued to grow, but at a slower rate, and since the 2000s it has shown some decline. Christianity is especially dominant in the west of the country including Seoul, Incheon, and the regions of Gyeonggi and Honam. The Christian faith in South Korea is dominated by four denominations: Catholicism, Presbyterianism (장로교 pronounced \"Jangnogyo\"), Methodism (감리교 pronounced \"Gamnigyo\") and Baptists (침례교 pronounced \"Chimnyegyo\"). The Yoido Full Gospel Church is the largest Pentecostal church in the country. Some non-denominational churches also exist. Korean Catholics still observe \"jesa\" (ancestral rites); the Korean tradition is very different from the institutional religious ancestral worship that is found in China and Japan and can be easily integrated as ancillary to Christianity. Orthodox and Protestants, by contrast, have completely abandoned the practice.\n\nThe peace churches have not gained a strong foothold on the peninsula. Quaker thought briefly attracted a national following in the late 20th century, thanks to the leadership of Ham Seok-heon. However, after Ham's death, interest in Quakerism declined. The state of Unitarianism is similar.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in South Korea was established following the baptism of Kim Ho Jik in 1951. Studying nutrition in Cornell, he met a member of their faith, Oliver Wyman, and was struck with their doctrine. Upon joining the church and completing his degree, Kim travelled back to South Korea, started translations for materials, and helped the church gain official recognition.\n\nAs of 2012 there were 81,628 Mormons and one temple in Seoul, four missions (Seoul, Daejeon, Busan, and Seoul South), 128 congregations, and twenty-four family history centres.\n\nIn 2013, the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria was first established in Seoul for Egyptian Copts and Ethiopians residing in South Korea.\n\nBuddhism (불교 \"Bulgyo\") entered Korea from China during the period of the three kingdoms (372, or the 4th century). Buddhism was the dominant religious and cultural influence in the Silla (668-935) and subsequent Goryeo (918-1392) states. Confucianism was also brought to Korea from China in early centuries, and was formulated as Korean Confucianism in Goryeo. However, it was only in the subsequent Joseon kingdom (1392–1910) that Korean Confucianism was established as the state ideology and religion, and Korean Buddhism underwent 500 years of suppression. Buddhism in the contemporary state of South Korea is stronger in the east of the country, namely the Yeongnam and Gangwon regions, as well as in Jeju.\n\nThere are a number of different schools in Korean Buddhism (대한불교 \"Daehanbulgyo\"), including the \"Seon\" (Korean Zen). The overwhelming majority of Buddhist temples in contemporary South Korea belong to the dominant Jogye Order, traditionally related to the Seon school. The order's headquarters are at Jogyesa in central Seoul, and it operates most of the country's old and famous temples, such as Bulguksa and Beomeosa.\n\nOther Buddhist traditions in South Korea include the \"Taego\" and \"Cheontae\" lineages. Taego is a form of Seon (Zen), while the Choentae is a modern revival of the Tiantai lineage in Korea, focusing on the \"Lotus Sutra\". Another lineage, the Jingak Order, is a form of Vajrayana Buddhism. Both the Jogye and Cheontae orders require their monastics to be celibate, while the Taego and Jingak orders allow for married priests.\n\nWon Buddhism (원불교 \"Wonbulgyo\") is a modern reformed Buddhism that seeks to make enlightenment possible for everyone and applicable to regular life. The scriptures and practices are simplified so that anyone, regardless of their wealth, occupation, or other external living conditions, can understand them.\n\nKorean shamanism, also known as \"Muism\" (무교 \"Mugyo\", \"\"mu\" [shaman] religion\") and \"Sindo\" (신도) or \"Sinism\" (신교 \"Singyo\" \"Way of the Gods\"). is the native religion of the Koreans. Although used synonymously, the two terms aren't identical: Jung Young Lee describes Muism as a form of Sindo - the shamanic tradition within the religion. Particularly akin to Japan's Shinto, contrarywise to it ad to China's religious systems, Korean Sindo never developed into a national religious culture.\n\nIn contemporary Korean language the shaman-priest or \"mu\" () is known as a \"mudang\" ( ) if female or \"baksu\" if male, although other names and locutions are used. Korean \"mu\" \"shaman\" is synonymous with Chinese \"wu\", which defines priests both male and female. The role of the \"mudang\" is to act as intermediary between the spirits or gods, and the human plain, through \"gut\" (rituals), seeking to resolve problems in the patterns of development of human life.\n\nCentral is interaction with \"Haneullim\" or \"Hwanin\", meaning \"source of all being\", and of all gods of nature, the utmost god or the supreme mind. The \"mu\" are mythically described as descendants of the \"Heavenly King\", son of the \"Holy Mother [of the Heavenly King]\", with investiture often passed down through female princely lineage. However, other myths link the heritage of the traditional faith to Dangun, male son of the Heavenly King and initiator of the Korean nation.\n\nBesides Japanese Shinto, Korean religion has also similarities with Chinese Wuism, and is akin to the Siberian, Mongolian, and Manchurian religious traditions. Some studies trace the Korean ancestral god Dangun to the Ural-Altaic Tengri \"Heaven\", the shaman and the prince. In the dialects of some provinces of Korea the shaman is called \"dangul dangul-ari\". The \"mudang\" is similar to the Japanese \"miko\" and the Ryukyuan \"yuta\". Muism has exerted an influence on some Korean new religions, such as Cheondoism and Jeungsanism. According to various sociological studies, Korea's type of Christianity owes much of its success to native shamanism, which provided a congenial mindset and models for the religion to take root.\n\nIn the 1890s, the last decades of the Joseon kingdom, Protestant missionaries gained significant influence, and led a demonisation of native religion through the press, and even carried out campaigns of physical suppression of local cults. The Protestant discourse would have had an influence on all further attempts to uproot native religion. The \"movement to destroy Sindo\" carried out in South Korea in the 1970s and 1980s, destroyed much of the physical heritage of Korean religion (temples and shrines), especially during the regime of President Park Chung-hee. There has been of a revival of shamanism in South Korea in most recent times.\n\nCheondoism (천도교 \"Cheondogyo\") is a fundamentally Confucian religious tradition derived from indigenous Sinism. It is the religious dimension of the \"Donghak\" (\"Eastern Learning\") movement that was founded by Choe Je-u (1824-1864), a member of an impoverished yangban (aristocratic) family, in 1860 as a counter-force to the rise of \"foreign religions\", which in his view included Buddhism and Christianity (part of \"Seohak\", the wave of Western influence that penetrated Korean life at the end of the 19th century). Choe Je-u founded Cheondoism after having been allegedly healed from illness by an experience of \"Sangje\" or \"Haneullim\", the god of the universal Heaven in traditional shamanism.\n\nThe Donghak movement became so influential among common people that in 1864 the Joseon government sentenced Choe Je-u to death. The movement grew and in 1894 the members gave rise to the Donghak Peasant Revolution against the royal government. With the division of Korea in 1945, most of the Cheondoist community remained in the north, where the majority of them dwelled. Only few thousands of them remain in South Korea today.\n\nThe social and historical significance of the Donghak movement and Cheondoism has been largely ignored in South Korea, contrarywise to North Korea where Cheondoism is viewed positively as a folk (\"minjung\") movement.\n\nApart from Cheondoism, other sects based on indigenous religion were founded between the end of the 19th century and the early decades of the 20th century. They include Daejongism (대종교 \"Daejonggyo\"), which has as its central creed the worship of Dangun, legendary founder of Gojoseon, thought of as the first proto-Korean kingdom; and a splinter sect of Cheondoism: Suwunism.\n\nJeungsanism (증산교 \"Jeungsangyo\") defines a family of religions founded in the early 20th century that emphasise magical practices and millenarian teachings. Part of it are more than a hundred \"Jeungsan religions,\" including the now defunct Bocheonism: the largest in Korea is currently Daesun Jinrihoe (대순진리회), an offshoot of the still existing Taegeukdo (태극도), while Jeungsando (증산도) is the most active overseas. They show themes derived from Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, and Korean folk religion.\n\nThere are also a number of small religious sects, which have sprung up around Gyeryongsan (\"Rooster-Dragon Mountain\", always one of Korea's most-sacred areas) in South Chungcheong Province, the supposed future site of the founding of a new dynasty originally prophesied in the 18th century (or before). Japanese Tenriism (천리교 \"Cheonligyo\") also claims to have thousands of South Korean members.\n\nAccording to Andrew Eungi Kim, there was a rise of new religious movements in the late 1900s which account for about 10 percent of all churches in South Korea. According to Kim, this is the outcome of foreign invasions, as well as conflicting views regarding social and political issues. Many of the new religious movements are syncretic in character.\n\nThe Unification Church or Unificationism (통일교 \"Tongilgyo\") is a new religious movement founded in South Korea in 1954 by Sun Myung Moon. Since its founding, the church has expanded throughout the world with most members living in East Asia.\n\nUnificationist beliefs are derived from the Christian Bible and are explained in the church's textbook, the \"Divine Principle\". It teaches that God is the creator and Heavenly Father, whose dual nature combines both masculinity and femininity and whose centre is true love.\n\nThe Unification Church has sponsored many organizations and projects over the years; including businesses, news media, projects in education and the arts, and political and social activism. The church was led by Moon until his death on September 3, 2012. At the time of Moon's death, it was reported that his widow Hak Ja Han would assume the leadership of the church. Their philosophy for establishing the Kingdom of Heaven is family centred.\n\nIn 2003, Korean Unification Church members started a political party in South Korea. It was named \"The Party for God, Peace, Unification, and Home\". In an inauguration declaration, the new party said it would focus on preparing for the reunification of the South and North Korea by educating the public about God and peace. A church official said that similar political parties would be started in Japan and the United States.\n\nOther Korean new religions that originated within Christianity are the World Mission Society Church of God and the Victory Altar.\n\nOnly few contemporary South Koreans identify as adherents of Confucianism (유교 \"Yugyo\"). Korean intellectuals historically developed a distinct Korean Confucianism. However, with the end of the Joseon state and the wane of Chinese influence in the 19th and 20th century, Confucianism was abandoned. The influence of Confucian ethical thought remains strong in other religious practices, and in Korean culture in general. Confucian rituals are still practised at various times of the year. The most prominent of these are the annual rites held at the Shrine of Confucius in Seoul. Other rites, for instance those in honour of clan founders, are held at shrines found throughout the country.\n\nHinduism (힌두교 \"Hindugyo\") is practiced among South Korea's small Indian and Nepali immigrant community. However, Hindu traditions such as yoga and Vedanta have attracted interest among younger South Koreans. There are two Hindu temples in the Seoul region, the Sri Radha Shyamasundar Mandir and the Sri Sri Radha Krishna temple, located on Seoul's outskirts.\n\nIslam (이슬람교 \"Iseullamgyo\") in South Korea is represented by a community of roughly 40,000 Muslims, mainly composed by people who converted during the Korean War and their descendants and not including migrant workers from South and Southeast Asia. The largest mosque is the Seoul Central Mosque in the Itaewon district of Seoul; smaller mosques can be found in most of the country's major cities.\n\nIn addition to native Korean Muslims, there are around a hundred thousand foreign workers from Muslim countries, particularly Pakistanis and Bangladeshis.\n\nThe Jewish existence in South Korea effectively began with the dawn of the Korean War in 1950. At this time a large number of Jewish soldiers, including the chaplain Chaim Potok, came to the Korean peninsula. Today the Jewish community is very small and limited to the Seoul Capital Area. There have been very few Korean converts to Judaism (유태교 \"Yutaegyo\").\n\nDuring Japan's colonisation of Korea (1910-1945), given the common Altaic origins of the two peoples, Koreans were considered to be outright part of the Japanese population, to be wholly assimilated. The Japanese studied and coopted native \"Sindo\" by overlapping it with their State Shinto (similar measures of assimilation were applied to Buddhism), which hinged upon the worship of Japanese high gods and the emperor's godhead. Hundreds of Japanese Shinto shrines were built throughout the peninsula.\n\nThis policy led to massive conversion of Koreans to Christian churches, which were already well ingrained in the country, representing a concern for the Japanese program, and supported Koreans' independence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "395242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395242", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Urgell", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Urgell\n\nThe Diocese of Urgell is a Roman Catholic diocese in Spain and Andorra in the historical County of Urgell, with origins in the fifth century AD or possibly earlier. It is based in the region of the historical Catalan County of Urgell, though it has different borders. The seat and Cathedral of the bishop are situated in la Seu d'Urgell town. The state of Andorra is a part of this diocese.\n\nAmong its most notable events are Bishop Felix's adoptionist revolt, the coup of Bishop Esclua and the overthrowing of the bishop by members of aristocratic families (namely Salla i Ermengol del Conflent, Eribau i Folcs dels Cardona, Guillem Guifré de Cerdanya and Ot de Pallars) between the years 981 and 1122.\n\nAlso important is the diocese's patronage of Andorra, with the bishop holding the role of \"ex officio\" Co-Prince of the Pyrenean Catalan-speaking nation jointly with the President of the French Republic (and formerly, the King of France). Andorra was ceded to the Bishop of Urgell by the Count Ermengol VI of Urgell in 1133.\n\nUp to 1802, the ecclesiastical border corresponded with the royal one established under the Treaty of the Pyrenees in 1659. As such the 33 towns of the northern Cerdanya (now in France) came under the diocese's control.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church controls the metropolitan church of Tarragona, with its see or capital of the Seu d’Urgell (Urgell See). It contains 7630 km² and a population of 200,761 according to the 2000 census and is the largest bishopric of the eight that have a see in Catalonia. In contrast, it is the most sparsely populated. The diocese borders the bishoprics of Vic, Solsona, Lleida, Barbastro-Monzón , Toulouse, Pamiers and Perpignan. It has been deeply linked for many years to the regions that constituted the counties of Urgell, Pallars and Cerdanya during the Middle Ages, with which it identifies and forms a historical and geographic unit maintained up to the present day. The diocese totally or partially occupies the Ripollès, Cerdanya, Alt Urgell, Segarra, Urgell, Pla d'Urgell, Noguera, Pallars Jussà, Pallars Sobirà, Alta Ribagorça and the Vall d'Aran regions.\n\nThe bishopric’s jurisdiction extends to 408 parishes, although today some have a very reduced population. Almost all of the parishes come from distant times, as the very titular saints of their churches. The most common are Saint Mary (in 90 parochial churches, as well as the cathedral), Saint Peter (35), Saint Martin (29), Saint Saturninus (24), Saint Steven (23), Saint Michael (19), Saint Andrew (17), Saint Julian (12), Saint Eulalia (11), Saint Vincent and Saint Felix (10). Many churches of the bishopric, parochial or not, conserve elements of great architectural interest, and thirty-six of them are considered cultural goods of national interest in Spain.\n\nAmongst all Catalan bishoprics, the Diocese of Urgell has been that which has experienced the most border-related changes throughout its existence, mainly for political reasons: the loss of Ribagorça (9th century), to the benefit of the Diocese of Roda, and the cession of 144 parishes of the Berguedà, the Solsonès and a part of the Segarra, to the benefit of the new diocese of Solsona (1593-1623); later, it was necessary to adapt the territory to the borders between states, and thus in 1803, the 24 parishes of French Cerdagne, which had been ceded to France from the Treaty of the Pyrenees in 1659, also passed ecclesiastically to that country; and in 1804, the 28 from the Aran Valley, a territory circumscribed by France yet united fully to the Catalan-Aragonese territories at least since the 12th century, were annexed to the diocese of Urgell, coming from the eliminated Gascon diocese of Sant Bertran de Comenge. In 1874 the sixty-odd towns that formed the erstwhile exempt jurisdictions of Gerri, Mur, Montodó-Bonrepòs, the order of Saint John of Jerusalem and Meià were annexed to the diocese. Finally, in 1956, the diocese gained the seven parishes of the Artesa de Segre enclave and gave up the 19 of the Franja de Ponent [Western Strip] to Lleida and Barbastre, grouped into three enclaves.\n\nThe diocese, without excluding the possibility of a more remote origin, was already constituted at the beginning of the 6th century. The first known bishop, Saint Justus, figures among the participants of the councils of Toledo (531), Lleida and Valencia (546). His successors also took part regularly in the Toledo councils celebrated throughout the 7th century. The Episcopal succession, despite the uncertainty of names and chronology, seems to not be interrupted by the Saracen invasion of 714.\n\nMonasticism must have been introduced into the diocese during the Visigothic period. The monasteries of Tavèrnoles, Gerri, Codinet, and Tresponts are probably anterior to the Saracen invasion. These foundations and the later ones--la Vedella, Elins, Bagà, la Portella, les Maleses, Villanega, Oveix, Bellera, el Burgal, Lavaix, Alaó, Escales, Ovarra, Taverna, Gualter, etc.—often adopted the Benedictine observance from the 9th century on, following the example of the majority of the coenobitic monasteries then extant in the Marca Hispanica. This became the norm for monastic life in the following century. These monasteries, alongside the parochial and canonical organization (the Urgell Diocese, Solsona, Cardona, Organyà, Ponts, Ager, Mur, Tremp) would greatly influence the Christianization of the country and its human, cultural and economic development.\n\nThe canonical monasteries derived into colleges as a result of their secularization (1592), and due to their corruption, the 1851 concord eliminated them, along with the other preexisting ones (Castellbò, Guissona, Balaguer). Mur and Àger were without a doubt the most famous Catalan canonical colleges, exempt from episcopal jurisdiction\n\nOn the first decade of the Umayyad conquest of Hispania, Berber troops set up garrisons on the northernmost hilly regions and towns. Uthman ibn Naissa settled down in Cerdanya, killed the bishop of Urgell, and rebelled against central Cordovan rule in 730. The Berber lord was killed in 731, and the region subdued by Abd al-Rahman al-Ghafiqi.\nDuring the pontificate of the Bishop Felix (781–799), who was accused of adoptionism by the Carolingian theologians and for this motive deposed and confined to Lyon, the city of Urgell and its church were completely destroyed by the Arabs around 793. With the founding of the Marca Hispanica, the diocese, like the others recently restored, became part of the ecclesiastical province of Narbonne until the recreation of the metropolitan see of Tarragona in 1091. The Frankish kings intervened effectively in the country’s reconstruction, promoting the Reconquest laying the foundations of its government. The territory now being free, mainly, from the Moors' power, with the help of the first Catalan Counts, they promoted the construction of a new cathedral, completed in the second part of the 9th century, to which were assigned 289 towns or villages—all the northwestern area of the Pyrenees.\n\nAt the same time, the Urgell church, ruled for more than two centuries (914-1122) by members of the Counts' families, fully entered the ring of the feudal system, which allowed it to shape for itself an extensive seigniorial patrimony, which among other cities and territories included the city of Urgell, the valleys of Andorra, the Vall de la Llosa, the Vall d’Arques and the Ribera Salada, the villages of Sanaüja, Guissona, and from 1257 onwards, Tremp. This, however, forced it into a certain dependence on the superior power of the Counts. Also, the Gregorian Reform, introduced to the County of Urgell during the last years of the 11th century, preceded by the change of the Visigothic rite for the Roman rite, reduced those interventions of the laymen in ecclesiastical affairs and achieved the complete freedom of the Church in the spiritual and temporal domains. Moreover, the maintenance of those possessions originated constant tension and fighting throughout the Middle Ages with the Viscounts of Castellbó and his heirs, the Counts of Foix.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15442014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15442014", "title": "Shmuel Szteinhendler", "text": "Shmuel Szteinhendler\n\nShmuel Szteinhendler, a rabbi in Santiago, Chile, is considered the current Chief Rabbi of Cuba as well as the regional director for Masorti Olami in Latin America.\n\nSzteinhendler was born in Argentina and trained as a Conservative rabbi in Buenos Aires. \nHe started visiting Cuba regularly since 1992, operating from his base in Guadalajara, Mexico, and oversaw a revival of the Jewish culture there, serving as an informal spiritual head of the Jewish community in Cuba. Szteinhendler's visits to Cuba were sponsored by the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee.\n"}
{"id": "2512470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2512470", "title": "Sikh Empire", "text": "Sikh Empire\n\nThe Sikh Empire (also Sikh Khalsa Raj, Sarkar-i-Khalsa or Panjab (Punjab) Empire) was a major power in the Indian subcontinent, formed under the leadership of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, who established a secular empire based in the Punjab. The empire existed from 1799, when Ranjit Singh captured Lahore, to 1849 and was forged on the foundations of the Khalsa from a collection of autonomous Sikh misls. At its peak in the 19th century, the Empire extended from the Khyber Pass in the west to western Tibet in the east, and from Mithankot in the south to Kashmir in the north. The religious demography of the Sikh Empire was Muslim (74%), Sikh (3%), Hindu (23%). The population was 3.5 million. It was the last major region of the Indian subcontinent to be annexed by the British.\n\nThe foundations of the Sikh Empire can be traced to as early as 1707, the year of Aurangzeb's death and the start of the downfall of the Mughal Empire. With the Mughals significantly weakened, the Sikh army, known as the Dal Khalsa, a rearrangement of the Khalsa inaugurated by Guru Gobind Singh, led expeditions against them and the Afghans in the west. This led to a growth of the army which split into different confederacies or semi-independent \"misls\". Each of these component armies controlled different areas and cities. However, in the period from 1762 to 1799, Sikh commanders of the misls appeared to be coming into their own as independent warlords.\n\nThe formation of the empire began with the capture of Lahore, by Ranjit Singh, from its Afghan ruler, Zaman Shah Durrani, and the subsequent and progressive expulsion of Afghans from the Punjab, by defeating them in the Afghan-Sikh Wars, and the unification of the separate Sikh misls. Ranjit Singh was proclaimed as Maharaja of the Punjab on 12 April 1801 (to coincide with Vaisakhi), creating a unified political state. Sahib Singh Bedi, a descendant of Guru Nanak, conducted the coronation. Ranjit Singh rose to power in a very short period, from a leader of a single misl to finally becoming the Maharaja of Punjab. He began to modernise his army, using the latest training as well as weapons and artillery. After the death of Ranjit Singh, the empire was weakened by internal divisions and political mismanagement. Finally, by 1849 the state was dissolved after the defeat in the Anglo-Sikh wars.\n\nThe Sikh Empire was divided into four provinces: Lahore, in Punjab, which became the Sikh capital, Multan, also in Punjab, Peshawar and Kashmir from 1799 to 1849.\n\nThe Sikh religion began around the time of the conquest of Northern India by Babur, the founder of the Mughal Empire. His conquering grandson, Akbar the Great, supported religious freedom and after visiting the langar of Guru Amar Das got a favourable impression of Sikhism. As a result of his visit he donated land to the langar and the Mughals did not have any conflict with Sikh gurus until his death in 1605. His successor Jahangir, however, saw the Sikhs as a political threat. He ordered Guru Arjun Dev, who had been arrested for supporting the rebellious Khusrau Mirza, to change the passage about Islam in the Adi Granth. When the Guru refused, Jahangir ordered him to be put to death by torture. Guru Arjan Dev's martyrdom led to the sixth Guru, Guru Hargobind, declaring Sikh sovereignty in the creation of the Akal Takht and the establishment of a fort to defend Amritsar. Jahangir attempted to assert authority over the Sikhs by jailing Guru Hargobind at Gwalior, but released him after a number of years when he no longer felt threatened. The Sikh community did not have any further issues with the Mughal empire until the death of Jahangir in 1627. The succeeding son of Jahangir, Shah Jahan, took offence at Guru Hargobind's \"sovereignty\" and after a series of assaults on Amritsar forced the Sikhs to retreat to the Sivalik Hills.\n\nThe next guru, Guru Har Rai, maintained the guruship in these hills by defeating local attempts to seize Sikh land and playing a neutral role in the power struggle between two of the sons of Shah Jahan, Aurangzeb and Dara Shikoh, for control of the Mughal Empire. The ninth Guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur, moved the Sikh community to Anandpur and travelled extensively to visit and preach in defiance of Aurangzeb, who attempted to install Ram Rai as new guru. Guru Tegh Bahadur aided Kashmiri Pandits in avoiding conversion to Islam and was arrested by Aurangzeb. When offered a choice between conversion to Islam and death, he chose to die rather than compromise his principles and was executed.\n\nGuru Gobind Singh assumed the guruship in 1675 and to avoid battles with Sivalik Hill rajas moved the guruship to Paunta. There he built a large fort to protect the city and garrisoned an army to protect it. The growing power of the Sikh community alarmed the Sivalik Hill rajas who attempted to attack the city but Guru Gobind Singh's forces routed them at the Battle of Bhangani. He moved on to Anandpur and established the Khalsa, a collective army of baptised Sikhs, on 30 March 1699. The establishment of the Khalsa united the Sikh community against various Mughal-backed claimants to the guruship. In 1701, a combined army of the Sivalik Hill rajas and the Mughals under Wazir Khan attacked Anandpur. The Khalsa retreated but regrouped to defeat the Mughals at the Battle of Muktsar. In 1707, Guru Gobind Singh accepted an invitation by Aurangzeb's successor Bahadur Shah I to meet him. The meeting took place at Agra on 23 July 1707.\n\nIn August 1708 Guru Gobind Singh visited Nanded, the seat of Mughal Telangana Subah. There he met a Bairāgī recluse, Madho Das, and converted him to Sikhism, giving him a new name, Banda Singh.\n\nBanda Singh Bahadur (1670–1716; also known as \"Lachman Das\", \"Lachman Dev\" and \"Madho Das\") met Guru Gobind Singh at Nanded and adopted the Sikh religion. A short time before his death, Guru Gobind Singh ordered him to reconquer Punjab region and gave him a letter that commanded all Sikhs to join him. After two years of gaining supporters, Banda Singh Bahadur initiated an agrarian uprising by breaking up the large estates of Zamindar families and distributing the land to the poor peasants who farmed the land. Banda Singh Bahadur started his rebellion with the defeat of Mughal armies at Samana and Sadhaura and the rebellion culminated in the defeat of Sirhind. During the rebellion, Banda Singh Bahadur made a point of destroying the cities in which Mughals had been cruel to the supporters of Guru Gobind Singh. He executed Wazir Khan in revenge for the deaths of Guru Gobind Singh's sons and Pir Budhu Shah after the Sikh victory at Sirhind. He ruled the territory between the Sutlej river and the Yamuna river, established a capital in the Himalayas at Lohgarh and struck coinage in the names of Guru Nanak and Guru Gobind Singh. In 1716, his army was defeated by the Mughals after he attempted to defend his fort at Gurdas Nangal. He was captured along with 700 of his men and sent to Delhi, where they were all tortured and executed after refusing to convert to Islam.\n\nThe formal start of the Sikh Empire began with the merger of these \"Misls\" by the time of coronation of Ranjit Singh in 1801, creating a unified political state. All the Misl leaders, who were affiliated with the army, were the nobility with usually long and prestigious family backgrounds in Sikh history. The main geographical footprint of the empire was from the Punjab region to Khyber Pass in the west, to Kashmir in the north, Sindh in the south, and Tibet in the east. The religious demography of the Sikh Empire was Muslim (74%), Sikh (3%), Hindu (23%). The population was 3.5 million, according to Amarinder Singh`s The Last Sunset: The Rise and Fall of the Lahore Durbar. In 1799 Ranjit Singh moved the capital to Lahore from Gujranwala, where it had been established in 1763 by his grandfather, Charat Singh.\nAfter Ranjit Singh's death in 1839, the empire was severely weakened by internal divisions and political mismanagement. This opportunity was used by the British East India Company to launch the Anglo-Sikh Wars.\n\nThe Battle of Ferozeshah in 1845 marked many turning points, the British encountered the Punjab Army, opening with a gun-duel in which the Sikhs \"had the better of the British artillery\". As the British made advances, Europeans in their army were especially targeted, as the Sikhs believed if the army \"became demoralised, the backbone of the enemy's position would be broken\". The fighting continued throughout the night. The British position \"grew graver as the night wore on\", and \"suffered terrible casualties with every single member of the Governor General's staff either killed or wounded\". Nevertheless, the British army took and held Ferozeshah. British General Sir James Hope Grant recorded: \"Truly the night was one of gloom and forbidding and perhaps never in the annals of warfare has a British Army on such a large scale been nearer to a defeat which would have involved annihilation.\"\n\nThe reasons for the withdrawal of the Sikhs from Ferozeshah are contentious. Some believe that it was treachery of the non-Sikh high command of their own army which led to them marching away from a British force in a precarious and battered state. Others believe that a tactical withdrawal was the best policy.\n\nThe Sikh empire was finally dissolved at the end of the Second Anglo-Sikh War in 1849 into separate princely states and the British province of Punjab. Eventually, a Lieutenant Governorship was formed in Lahore as a direct representative of the British Crown.\n\nThe Punjab was a region straddling India and the Afghan Durrani Empire. The following modern-day political divisions made up the historical Sikh Empire:\nJamrud District (Khyber Agency, Pakistan) was the westernmost limit of the Sikh Empire. The westward expansion was stopped in the Battle of Jamrud, in which the Afghans managed to kill the prominent Sikh general Hari Singh Nalwa in an offensive, though the Sikhs successfully held their position at their Jamrud fort. Ranjit Singh sent his General Sirdar Bahadur Gulab Singh Powind thereafter as reinforcement and he crushed the Pashtun rebellion harshly. In 1838, Ranjit Singh with his troops marched into Kabul to take part in the victory parade along with the British after restoring Shah Shoja to the Afghan throne at Kabul.\n\nThe Sikh Empire was idiosyncratic in that it allowed men from religions other than their own to rise to commanding positions of authority.\n\nA ban on cow slaughter, which can be related to Hindu sentiments, was universally imposed in the Sarkar Khalsaji. Ranjit Singh also donated huge amounts of gold for the construction of Hindu temples not only in his state, but also in the areas which were under the control of the Marathas, with whom Sikhs had a cordial relation.\n\nThe Sikhs attempted not to offend the prejudices of Muslims, noted Baron von Hügel, the Austrian botanist and explorer, yet the Sikhs were described as harsh. In this regard, Masson's explanation is perhaps the most pertinent: \"Though compared to the Afghans, the Sikhs were mild and exerted a protecting influence, yet no advantages could compensate to their Mohammedan subjects, the idea of subjection to infidels, and the prohibition to slay kine, and to repeat the \"azan\", or 'summons to prayer'.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32302915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32302915", "title": "Structure of Handel's Messiah", "text": "Structure of Handel's Messiah\n\nMessiah (HWV 56), the English-language oratorio composed by George Frideric Handel in 1741, is structured in three parts, listed here in tables for their musical setting and biblical sources.\n\nThe libretto by Charles Jennens is drawn from the Bible: mostly from the Old Testament of the King James Bible, but with several psalms taken from the Book of Common Prayer. Regarding the text, Jennens commented: \"...the Subject excells every other Subject. The Subject is Messiah ...\".\n\n\"Messiah\" differs from Handel's other oratorios in that it does not contain an encompassing narrative, instead offering contemplation on different aspects of the Christian Messiah:\n\nThe oratorio's structure follows the liturgical year: Part I corresponding with Advent, Christmas, and the life of Jesus; Part II with Lent, Easter, the Ascension, and Pentecost; and Part III with the end of the church year—dealing with the end of time. The birth and death of Jesus are told in the words of the prophet Isaiah, the most prominent source for the libretto. The only true \"scene\" of the oratorio is the annunciation to the shepherds which is taken from the Gospel of Luke. The imagery of shepherd and lamb features prominently in many movements, for example: in the aria \"He shall feed His flock like a shepherd\" (the only extended piece to talk about the Messiah on earth), in the opening of Part II (\"Behold the Lamb of God\"), in the chorus \"All we like sheep\", and in the closing chorus of the work (\"Worthy is the Lamb\").\n\nThe librettist arranged his compilation in \"scenes\", each concentrating on a topic.\n\nBy the time Handel composed \"Messiah\" in London he was already a successful and experienced composer of Italian operas, and had created sacred works based on English texts, such as the 1713 \"Utrecht Te Deum and Jubilate\", and numerous oratorios on English libretti. For \"Messiah\", Handel used the same musical technique as for those works, namely a structure based on chorus and solo singing.\n\nThe orchestra scoring is simple: oboes, strings and basso continuo of harpsichord, violoncello, violone and bassoon. Two trumpets and timpani highlight selected movements, in Part I the song of the angels, \"Glory to God in the highest\", and with timpani the closing movements of both Part II, \"Hallelujah\", and of Part III, \"Worthy is the Lamb\".\n\nOnly two movements in \"Messiah\" are purely instrumental: the overture (written as \"Sinfony\" in Handel's autograph) and the Pifa (a pastorale introducing the shepherds in Bethlehem); and only a few movements are a duet or a combination of solo and chorus. The solos are typically a combination of recitative and aria. The arias are called Airs or Songs, and some of them are in da capo form, but rarely in a strict sense (repeating the first section after a sometimes contrasting middle section). Handel found various ways to use the format freely to convey the meaning of the text. Occasionally verses from different biblical sources are combined into one movement, however more often a coherent text section is set in consecutive movements, for example the first \"scene\" of the work, the annunciation of Salvation, is set as a sequence of three movements: recitative, aria and chorus. The center of Part III is a sequence of six movements based on a passage from Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians on the resurrection of the dead, a passage that Brahms also chose for \"Ein deutsches Requiem\".\n\nThe movements marked \"Recitative\" (Rec.) are \"secco\", accompanied by only the continuo, whereas the recitatives marked \"Accompagnato\" (Acc.) are accompanied by additional string instruments. Handel used four voice parts, soprano (S), alto (A), tenor (T) and bass (B) in the solo and choral movements. Only once is the chorus divided in an upper chorus and a lower chorus, it is SATB otherwise. Handel uses both polyphon and homophon settings to illustrate the text. Even polyphon movements typically end on a dramatic long musical rest, followed by a broad homophon conclusion. Handel often stresses a word by extended coloraturas, especially in several movements which are a parody of music composed earlier on Italian texts. He uses a cantus firmus on long repeated notes especially to illustrate God's speech and majesty, for example \"for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it\" in movement 4.\n\nThe following tables are organized by movement numbers. There are two major systems of numbering the movements of \"Messiah\": the historic Novello edition of 1959 (which is based on earlier editions and contains 53 movements), and the Bärenreiter edition of 1965 in the Hallische Händel-Ausgabe. Not counting some short recitatives as separate movements, it has 47 movements. The Novello number (Nov) is given first, then the Bärenreiter number (Bär).\n\nHandel revised the work several times for specific performances. The alternative movements are part of the Bärenreiter edition, the Novello numbers are given in parentheses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4280342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4280342", "title": "Sultanate of Maguindanao", "text": "Sultanate of Maguindanao\n\nThe Sultanate of Maguindanao (Maguindanaon: \"Kasultanan nu Magindanaw\"; Jawi: كسولتانن ماڬوايندنااو; Iranun: \"Kesultanan a Magindanao\"; ; ) was a Sultanate state that ruled parts of the island of Mindanao, in southern Philippines, especially in modern-day Maguindanao province and Davao City. Its known historical influence stretches from the peninsula of Zamboanga to the bay of Sarangani. At its peak, the sultanate covered the entire island of Mindanao, and ruled over the smaller neighboring islands near and around Mindanao. During the era of European colonization, the Sultanate maintained friendly relations with British and Dutch traders.\n\nDuring the indigenous era, there were two brothers named Mamalu and Tabunaway, who lived peacefully in Mindanao, specifically the Cotabato valley. When Shariff Kabungsuwan preached Islam in the area in the 16th century, Tabunaway converted, while Mamalu decided to hold fast to the beliefs of their elders. The brothers parted ways afterwards; Tabunaway to the lowlands and Mamalu to the mountains, but they vowed to honor their kinship, and thus an unwritten pact of peace between Muslims and indigenous peoples was forged through the two brothers.\n\nShariff Mohammed Kabungsuwan of Johor introduced Islam in the area, which was earlier Hindu influenced from Srivijaya times, at the end of the 16th century and established himself as Sultan seated in Malabang-Lanao. He exiled some of his people who deviated from the Islamic faith to Cotabato. He subsequently married many local princesses of the Maguinadanao family ruling class in Dulawan and established the Sultanate of Maguindanao seated in Dulawan and virtually as Sultan of the whole island of the so-called Mindanao. The sultanate was usually centered in the valley of Cotabato.\n\nAsraf Mohamad Samalan Dipatuan Qudratullah Fahar'uddin Nasiruddin, popularly known as Qudarat and whose name as a youth was Ullah Untong, was one of the greatest known sultans who controlled Mindanao. In his island sanctuary in Sulu, he was known as Sultan Nasiruddin and was the Sultan of that island recognized by the Sulu Sultan and his grave still stands there.\n\nAbd al-Rahman, his grandson, continued increasing the Sultanate's power and influence.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonial period, the Sultanate of Maguindanao was able to defend its territory, preventing the Spaniards from colonising the entire Mindanao and ceding the island of Palawan to the Spanish government in 1705. The island priory ceded to him by Sulu Sultan Sahabuddin. This was to have help dissuaded Spanish encroachments into the island of Maguindanao and Sulu itself.\n\nChinese gongs, yellow as a color of royalty and idioms originated from Chinese entered into Mindanao. Royalty was connected to yellow. The color yellow was used by the Sultan in Mindanao. Chinese tableware and gongs were exported to the Moros.\n\nMerchant Chinese were tranquilly residing alongside the Moros in Maguindanao.\n\nAs to the historical records, there were 12 Sultans of Maguindanao.\n\n1. Sharif Muhammad Kabungsuwan\n\nTarsilas by Dr. Sleeby and Dr. Majul researched indicated of Sharif Ali Kabungsuwan (Karim Ul-Makdum) was Abu'Baik the brother of Abu'Bkr-Zein Ul-Abidin the Sulu Sultan Sharif Ul-Hashim. Their father was Sultan Betatar of Taif Arabia the 9th generation progeny of Hassan (son of Fatima, the daughter of Muhammad). Sharif Kabungsuwan Seated in Malabang Lanao who exiled Muslims to Dulawan Cotabato who had deviated from Islamic Jurisprudence. And again drove those stubborn ones were drove to the hinterlands where they later became the Manobos. Kabungsuwan's mother was a member of the Johore royalty of Singapore. It may be speculated that he arrived on the shores of Mindanao around 1515. He was the second Makdum (Karim Ul-Makdum) who had come and reinforced Islam. He married the daughter of Tomoai Aliwya of the Maguindanao Family Dynasty. After his father in-law's death, the latter's political authority fell on Kabungsuwan who had established the Sultanate of Maguindanao as its first Sultan reigning as Sultan Aliwya. shariff Kabunsuan was given the authority and power to lead by Rajah Tabunaway and apo Mamalu the son of Shariff Maradja from Johore. Rajah Tabunaway was the one who accept Kabunsuan at the river PUlangi river.\n\n2. Sharief Maka-alangHe was a son of Muhammad Kabungsuwan and surnamed “Saripada”. His mother Angintabu was a daughter of an Iranun chief from the area now known as Malabang. In 1543, during the Villalobos expedition, some Spaniards were able to go to the mouth of a big river (Pulangi) where they were informed by the inhabitants that the chief was called “Sarriparra”. This being a variation of “salipada” or “saripada”, it can be surmised that the chief was the Sharif Maka-alang; especially if it is considered that not only does a tarsila explicitly state that the Sharif had such a title but that such a title was not found among his immediate successors.\n\n3. Datu BangkayaHe was a son of Sharif Maka-alang. In 1574, Guido de Lavezaris wrote to the Spanish King that the chief of Mindanao River wanted to become a friend of the Spaniards. In another Spanish report dated 1579, this chief is referred to as “Asulutan” (Arabic, As-sulutan) with the information that he was a father of Diman Sankay and that he had already died. This refers probably to Datu Bangkaya who by 1574 must have been reigning for some time, since in 1579, his son Dimansankay, was considered by the Spaniards to have been “an old man”. Datu Bangkaya could also have been the ruler in the Pulangi who was reported to have died in 1578.\n\n4. Datu DimasankayHe was a son of Bangkaya. Spanish reports say that he was ruling in 1579 and that he was an old man. The leading datus of the Iranuns and Maranaos all claim descent from him.\n\n5. Datu SalikulaHe was the half-brother of Dimansankay and also known as Gugu Salikula. Up to early 1597, he appeared to be a lading chief of Maguindanao, Dimansankay being dead at that time. According to tarsilas, he married a Sulu princess, and therefore he might have been the Maguindanao chief seen in Jolo in 1597 where he was supposed to have been banished for being “restless and rebellious” and who was further described as a brother-in-law of the Sulu ruler and an uncle of the Maguindanao Rajah Muda (erroneously called “King”) by the Spaniards. He was chief around 1585 to 1597.\n\n6. Kapitan Laut Buisan\n\nHe was a younger half-brother of both Dimansankay and Salikula; he was sometimes called by the title “Katchil”. His rule began around 1597 when he displaced Salikula; he controlled his nephew, the Rajah Muda, a son of Dimansankay. He must have been chief at least up to 1619, since Dutch sources mention relations with the immediate predecessor of Qudarat at this date.\n\n7. Sultan Kudarat\n\nA son of Buisan, he was known to the Spaniards as Corralat and to some Dutch writers as Guserat. In 1619-1621, there was war between Buayan and Maguindanao, probably dynastic or a contest for primacy in the Pulangi. Qudarat must have been involved in this war for not long after a temporary reversal he appears as exercising some political power over Buayan. Furthermore, he must have consolidated his power well enough after this to enable him to attack Sarangani in 1625. He died about the end of 1671 after having ruled about half a century. His rule, with varying fortunes and at different capitals can, therefore, be fairly estimated to have taken place from 1619 to 1671. By 1645, he was already using the title of “sultan”. As a young man he was entitled “Katchil”. His great grandchildren referred to him as Nasir ud-Din.\n\n8. Sultan Dundang TidulayHe was a son of Qudarat and there is a report that he died before his father. If he ruled at all, it must have been for a very short time. He was referred to as Saif ud-Din by his grandchildren.9. Sultan Barahaman (Arabic, ‘Abd ur-Rahman) He was a son of Sultan Tidulay. He was also known as Minulu sa rahmatullah. His sons referred to him as Muhammad Shah. He was Almo Sobat (Arabic, Al Mu-Thabbat) to William Dampier or the Almo al Lasab Brahaman to the Spaniards. The name of his grandfather Qudarat was also used by him. He was heard of as sultan early as 1678. Information given to Dutch officials at Ternate was that he died on July 6, 1699.\n\n10. Sultan Kahar Ud-din KudaHe was a younger brother of Barahaman and was sometimes known as Jamal ul-‘Azam. He also assumed the title of Amir ul-‘Umara as well as that of Maulana. His reign was contested by two of his nephews, the sons of Barahaman. To make more secure his authority, he asked the aid of the Sulu Sultan Shahab ud-Din who came over to Simuay where Kuda held court. A misunderstanding as well as bitterness due to a long standing feud brought about a pitched battle between the Sulus and Maguindanaos. In the struggle, the Sulu Sultan personally slew Kuda. This event took place on August 10, 1702.\n\n11. Sultan Bayan Ul-AnwarHis other regal name was Jalal ud-Din. Entitled “Dipatuan” during his lifetime, he was known after his death as Mupat Batua. He was a son of Sultan Barahaman. In 1701, he was already intriguing against his uncle the Sultan. He succeeded to the throne in 1702 and held court in Slangan but was often in Sibugay. His younger brother Ja’far Sadiq, the Rajah Muda, revolted against him but managed to keep the throne. In 1736, Anwar “abdicated” in favor of his son Tahir ud- Din Malinug (no. 13). He died around 1745.\n\n12. Sultan Muhammad Ja’far Sadiq ManamirHe was a younger brother of Sultan Bayan ul-Anwar. He was sometimes referred to as Amir ud-Din. Referred to as Maulana while alive, he was known after his death as Shahid Mupat. He contested the reign of his older brother, but he was forced to flee to Tamontaka in 1710. Dutch officials referred to him as “the young king” to distinguish him from Sultan Bayan ul Anwar. By 1725 he had assumed the title of Paduka Sri Sultan. In March 1733, his brother and nephew Malinug attacked his forces in Tamontaka. The latter caused his death in the ensuing struggle. While his brother had power along the coast, Manamir held sway over the interior. His power was recognized in Tamontaka from about 1710 to his death in March 1733.\n\n13. Sultan Muhammad Tahir Ud-dinA son of Sultan Bayan ul-Anwar, he was commonly known to the Spaniards as Dipatuan Malinug. He was also known as Muhammad Shah Amir ud-Din. In a battle in 1733, he killed his uncle Ja’far Sadiq Manamir. In 1736, his father started sharing with him the responsibilities of government.\nHis authority was however contested by two of his cousins, sons of Manamir, forcing him to retire to the interior where he died in Buayan around 1748.\n\n14. Sultan Muhammad Khair Ud-dinHe was a son of Sultan Ja’far Sadiq and was better known to Europeans as Pakir Maulana Kamsa (Arabic, Faqir Maulana Hamzah) or Amir ud-Din Hamza. He also used the name ‘Azim ud-Din and assumed the title Amir ul-Mu’minin. In 1733, after his father was slain, he began to consider himself heir to the throne and thereupon called himself “rajah muda”. The next year, he was formally invested with the duties of a sultan in the presence of the Spanish officials from Zamboanga. With some Spanish aid, he was able to consolidate his position in Tamontaka and contest the rule of his uncle Bayan ul-Anwar and later that of his cousin Malinug. But upon the latter’s death around 1748, the struggle for the sultanate ceased. Pakir Maulana Kamsa emerged as paramount chief of Maguindanao. Around 1755, he started to relinquish some of his powers to his younger brother with the condition that his son, Kibad Sahriyal, would be the “Rajah Muda”.\n\n15. Sultan Pahar Ud-dinHe was a younger brother of Pakir Maulan Kamsa and was known as Datu Pongloc or Panglu. He began to exercise the powers of sultan around 1755 and was in the sultan’s seat in that same year when Captain Thomas Forrest paid a visit to Maguindanao. After his death he was known as Mupat Hidayat.\n\n16. Sultan Kibad SahriyalHis more regal title was Muhammad ‘Azim ud-Din Amir ul-Umara. He was a son of Pakir Maulana Kamsa. Even before the death of his uncle the Sultan, he was already being addressed as “sultan”. He was friendly towards the Spaniards and at least twice entered into peaceful negotiations with them, namely, in 1780 and 1794. He probably governed from 1780 to 1805.\n\n17. Sultan Kawasa Anwar Ud-dinHe was a son of Kibad Sahriyal and like his father was also entitled Amir ul-‘Umara. He entered into a peace treaty with the Spaniards in 1805. One of his seals carried the title of Iskandar Julkarnain. He possibly reigned from 1805 to 1830.\n\n18. Sultan Iskandar Qudraullah Muhammad Zamal Ul-AzamHe was more popularly known as Sultan Untong. He was a grandson of Kibad Sahriyal and a nephew of Sultan Kawasa. Some Spanish documents carry his name as Iskandar Qudarat Pahar-ud-Din. In 1837 and 1845, he entered into friendly treaties with the Spaniards. He died either in 1853 and 1854.\n\n19. Sultan Muhammad MakakwaHe was a grandson of Sultan Kawasa Anwar ud-Din. His rule can be estimated to have lasted from about 1854 to 1884. He died in Nuling (in the site of the old settlement of Maguindanao).\n\n20. Sultan Mohammad Jalal Ud-din PabluAlso known as Sultan Wata, he was a son of Sultan Makakwa. His capital was at Banubu, just opposite the town of Cotabato across the Pulangi. His death took place in 1888.\n\n21. Sultan MangiginHe was a grandson of the famous Datu Dakula of Sibugay, who in turn, was a grandson of Kibad Sahriyal (No. 16). He began his rule in 1896. From 1888 to 1896, the sultanate was vacant. This was probably due to the fact that Datu Utto (Sultan Anwar ud-Din of Buayan) wanted his brother-in-law Datu Mamaku (a son of Sultan Qudratullah Untong) to become the Sultan. The Spaniards, however, wanted the sultanate to go to one of the Sibugay datus. Around the end of 1900, Sultan Mangigin transferred his residence from Cotabato to Sibugay. In 1906, he married Rajah Putri, the widow of Datu Utto and sister of Datu Mamaku.\n\n22. Sultan Muhammad Hijaban Iskandar Mastura KudaratHe assumed the throne upon Mangigin’s death in 1926. By this time, the Sultanate assumed a very ceremonial traditional character. It continued to be the central institution for traditional and religious affairs of the Maguindanao and Iranun peoples.\n\nAs of May 2018, there are three major royal families in Maguindanao. Each having an enthroned sultan under the Sultanate of Maguindanao, Kingdom of Rajah Buayan, and Domain of Alah Valley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1019172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019172", "title": "Therapeutae", "text": "Therapeutae\n\nThe Therapeutae were a Jewish sect, including men and women, which existed in Alexandria and other parts of the Diaspora of Hellenistic Judaism in the final years of the Second Temple period. \n\nThe primary source concerning the Therapeutae is the \"De vita contemplativa\" (\"The Contemplative Life\") (purportedly by the Jewish philosopher Philo of Alexandria (c. 20 BCE – 50 CE).) The author appears to have been personally acquainted with them. The author describes the Therapeutae as \"philosophers\" (cf. I.2) and mentions a group that lived on a low hill by the Lake Mareotis close to Alexandria in circumstances resembling lavrite life (cf. III.22). They were \"the best\" of a kind given to \"perfect goodness\" that \"exists in many places in the inhabited world\" (cf. III.21). The author was unsure of the origin of the name and derives the name Therapeutae/Therapeutides from Greek θεραπεύω in the sense of \"cure\" or \"worship\" (cf. I.2).\n\nSome interpret the Therapeutae as early Christian monks.\n\nThe term \"Therapeutae\" (plural) is Latin, from Philo's Greek plural \"Therapeutai\" (Θεραπευταί). The term therapeutes means one who is attendant to the gods although the term, and the related adjective \"therapeutikos\" carry in later texts the meaning of attending to heal, or treating in a spiritual or medical sense. The Greek feminine plural \"Therapeutrides\" (Θεραπευτρίδες) is sometimes encountered for their female members. The term \"therapeutae\" may occur in relation to followers of Asclepius at Pergamon, and \"therapeutai\" may also occur in relation to worshippers of Sarapis in inscriptions, such as on Delos. See Therapeutae of Asclepius.\n\nThe author described the Therapeutae in \"De vita contemplativa\" (\"On the contemplative life\"), written in the first century CE. The origins of the Therapeutae were unclear, and Philo was even unsure about the etymology of their name, which he explained as meaning either physicians of souls or servants of God. The opening phrases of his essay establish that it followed one that has been lost, on the active life. Philo was employing the familiar polarity in Hellenic philosophy between the active and the contemplative life, exemplifying the active life by the Essenes, another severely ascetic sect, and the contemplative life by the desert-dwelling Therapeutae.\nAccording to \"De Vita Contemplativa\", the Therapeutae were widely distributed in the Ancient world, among the Greeks and beyond in the non-Greek world of the \"barbarians\", with one of their major gathering points being in Alexandria, in the area of the Lake Mareotis:\n\nThey lived chastely with utter simplicity; they \"first of all laid down temperance as a sort of foundation for the soul to rest upon, proceed to build up other virtues on this foundation\" (Philo). They renounced property and followed severe discipline:\nThey were dedicated to the contemplative life, and their activities for six days of the week consisted of ascetic practices, fasting, solitary prayers and the study of the scriptures in their isolated cells, each with its separate holy sanctuary, and enclosed courtyard:\n\nOn the seventh day the Therapeutae met in a meeting house, the men on one side of an open partition, the women modestly on the other, to hear discourses. Once in seven weeks they meet for a night-long vigil after a banquet where they served one another, for \"they are not waited on by slaves, because they deem any possession of servants whatever to be contrary to nature. For she has begotten all men alike free\" (\"De Vita Contemplativa\", para.70) and sing antiphonal hymns until dawn.\n\nIn addition to the Pentateuch, the Prophets and Psalms they possessed arcane writings of their own tradition, including formulae for numerological and allegorical interpretations.\n\nThe author notes that they \"professed an art of healing superior to that practiced in the cities\".\n\nThe pseudepigraphic \"Testament of Job\" is seen as possibly a Therapeutae text.\n\nThe 3rd-century Christian writer Eusebius of Caesarea (c. 263–339), in his \"Ecclesiastical History\", identified Philo's Therapeutae as the first Christian monks, identifying their renunciation of property, chastity, fasting, and solitary lives with the cenobitic ideal of the Christian monks.\n\nThe 4th-century Christian heresiologist Epiphanius of Salamis (c. 315–403), bishop of Salamis in Cyprus, author of the \"Panarion,\" or \"Medicine Chest against Heresies\", misidentified Philo's Therapeuate as \"Jessaens\" and considered them a Christian group.\n\nThe 5th-century Christian writer Pseudo-Dionysius, following Philo, interprets that \"Some people gave to the ascetics the name 'Therapeutae' or servants while some others gave them the name monks\". Pseudo-Dionysius interprets Philo's group as a highly organized Christian ascetic order, and the meaning of the name \"Therapeutae\" as \"servants\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41714299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41714299", "title": "Yazdagird (Bavandid ruler)", "text": "Yazdagird (Bavandid ruler)\n\nYazdagird (Persian: یزدگرد) was the ruler of the Bavand dynasty from 1271 to 1298. He was the cousin and successor of Ali of Tabaristan.\n\nYazdagird was the son of Shahriyar, who was the brother of the Bavand king Ardashir II of Tabaristan. During the reign of Yazdagird, his overlord, the Ilkhanate, were in a civil war. During this period, Yazdagird's kingdom experienced a period of relative prosperity and security. He is also known for building several madrassas in his capital, Amol. Yazdagird died in 1298, and was succeeded by his son Shahriyar V.\n"}
