{"id": "20990555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20990555", "title": "A374 road", "text": "A374 road\n\nThe A374 is a main road in the United Kingdom, one of six A-roads making the border crossing between Devon and Cornwall. It is the most southerly of the A37x group of roads, starting and ending its journey with the A38 trunk road, from the outskirts of Plymouth in Devon to the Trerulefoot roundabout in Cornwall.\n\n \nStarting at the Marsh Mills junction of the A38, the A374 heads west into Plymouth, following the course of the River Plym along a section of dual carriageway. At Prince Rock the A379 merges from Plymstock and continues into the city. On the edge of the city centre it meets the Charles Cross roundabout, in the middle of which stands the preserved shell of the derelict Charles Church. Skirting the Plymouth city centre to the north, the A374 continues past the main buildings of the University of Plymouth and is met by the A386 near Plymouth railway station. Going westward down the locally notorious Union Street, the road enters Devonport and comes to the River Tamar.\n\nThe A374 continues on into Cornwall, across the river, via the vehicle carrying Torpoint Ferry. Through the town of Torpoint the road continues, following the River Lynher, through the villages of Antony and Sheviock and on to Polbathic, where the B3249 starts northwards to join the A38, avoiding a low bridge at Trerulefoot roundabout. The A374 climbs further through agricultural land, with the A387 joining from the west, and ends at Trerulefoot roundabout, re-joining the A38.\n\nThe original road designated as the A374, as of 1922, ran from Horton Cross, just north of Donyatt in Somerset, southwards to Colyford in Devon along the route of what is now the A358. Whereas the Plymouth-Torpoint-Trerulefoot road (current A374) was designated as part of the A389 road to Bodmin in Cornwall at this time.\n\nAfter the phases of road re-classification carried out in the 1920s and 1930s, the Trerulefoot-Torpoint-Marsh Mills stretch of road formed part of the A38, as the Torpoint Ferry was the main route across the River Tamar. After the Tamar Bridge opened in 1961 the A38 was re-designated through Tideford, on what was previously the route of the A374 and the current route of the A374 was numbered as such.\n\nThe current A374 also used to extend beyond Marsh Mills through Plympton to its southwestern edge, taking the previous route of the A38 prior to the Plympton bypass. However this has now been downgraded to the B3416 and other unclassified roads within Plympton town centre.\n\nThe A374 from Torpoint to Trerulefoot is also a very highly prized road in the motorcycling fraternity. Known locally as the \"Torpoint Twisties\" it offers a challenge to all with its series of bends and straights. However it also causes controversy because of the number of accidents and fatalities which occur, meaning the road has been classed as a \"red\" status road by the local constabulary and is patrolled regularly and monitored by static speed cameras.\n\n"}
{"id": "340081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340081", "title": "A38 road", "text": "A38 road\n\nThe A38, part of which is also known as the Devon Expressway, is a major A-class trunk road in England.\n\nThe road runs from Bodmin in Cornwall to Mansfield in Nottinghamshire. It is long, making it the longest 2-digit A road in England. It was formerly known as the \"Leeds–Exeter Trunk Road\", when this description also included the A61. Prior to the opening of the M5 motorway in the 1960s and 1970s, the A38 formed the main \"holiday route\" from the Midlands to Somerset, Devon and Cornwall.\n\nConsiderable lengths of the road in the West Midlands closely follow Roman roads, including part of Icknield Street. Between Worcester and Birmingham the current A38 follows the line of a Saxon salt road;\nFor most of the length of the M5 motorway, the A38 road runs alongside it as a single carriageway road.\n\nThe road starts on the eastern side of Bodmin at a junction with the A30 before traversing the edge of the town to meet the A30 again. It travels through the picturesque Glynn Valley to Dobwalls and Liskeard, which are bypassed by a dual carriageway. The Dobwalls section contains the most sophisticated bat bridge yet constructed in the UK. The A38 continues through the Cornish countryside, bypassing the centre of Saltash and continuing through the Saltash Tunnel. Immediately after the tunnel the River Tamar is crossed using the Tamar Bridge where the route resumes dual carriageway status. The section from Plymouth to Exeter is known locally as the Devon Expressway; it forms the southern border of Dartmoor National Park, and serves as a southward extension of the M5 motorway opening in 1977. It is long and was completed in the early 1970s. There are several grade separated junctions along its length mainly for local traffic; including a three-level stacked roundabout for the A386, which heads out towards Dartmoor National Park. The route was reserved for the Parkway as early as 1943, when it was included in the Plan for Plymouth.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Marsh Mills junction was significantly remodelled, reducing the size of the roundabout and building a flyover over the top of it, allowing free flowing access from the Plympton bypass onto the Parkway. The viaducts carrying the A38 over the River Plym, which after the construction of the Marsh Mills flyover became the Exeter bound sliproads, were built in 1969–70 as part of the Plympton bypass. They were replaced in the 1990s due to suffering from Alkali Silica Reaction, and the project, completed in February 1996 at a cost of £12.25million, involved the world's largest sideways bridge slide at the time for the , 5,500 tonne bridge. This required the road to be closed for only 48 hours, which won it an AA National Motoring Award in 1996 for innovation and minimisation of traffic congestion.\n\nThe South Brent bypass opened in 1974 and the Ivybridge bypass in 1973, both on new alignments. The A38 passes Endsleigh Garden Centre, which used to have direct access from the dual carriageway, although since the early 2000s this has been closed and the garden centre is accessed from the Westover junction for Ivybridge. After Ivybridge, the route roughly parallels the original route, bypassing the village of Lee Mill which is now home to a large trading estate. The road widens to a three-lane dual carriageway for the Plympton bypass. This opened in 1971 and was the first section of the Devon Expressway to be built on a new alignment, as well as being the first sizeable dual carriageway section of the route. The route originally ended at the Marsh Mills roundabout, which when opened was the largest in Europe.\n\nThe section of the A38 between the A382 junction and Ashburton was built on a new alignment parallel to the old road, and was opened in 1974. Trago Mills, a locally well known retailer, is passed by the road. The Ashburton bypass, much like the Kennford bypass, uses the alignment of a much older 1930s single carriageway bypass, which was subsequently upgraded to dual carriageway by 1974. At the town of Buckfastleigh, the route once again bypasses on a new alignment, although due to the challenging topography of the area, the road crosses part of the town on a viaduct. From Buckfastleigh to the A385 junction, the current road follows the route of original single carriageway, with the majority of this section being upgraded between 1973 and 1974, although a small section at Dean Prior was upgraded between 1966 and 1967. This section is of a poor quality when compared to the majority of the route between Exeter and Plymouth, containing several side turnings with short exit/entry slips, and properties which back onto the road.\n\nThe town of Chudleigh and the village of Chudleigh Knighton are bypassed on a new alignment, which opened in 1973, and the following section at Heathfield up to the A382 junction was upgraded from the original route between 1966 and 1968. Some of this section follows part of the old Teign Valley Line railway.\n\nBefore Kennford, the route splits, with the A38 heading for Plymouth and the A380 heading towards Torbay. At this point, the road becomes a dual two-lane road although a third-lane emerges immediately for uphill traffic as the route climbs Haldon Hill, which has an average gradient of 1 in 20 over a 4 km distance, and a maximum gradient of around 1 in 10 (the adjacent A380 Telegraph Hill has about the same maximum gradient). The third lane is lost at the top of the hill, and the next section, the Harcombe bends is an original dual carriageway section, older than the rest of the route and this is evident with its sharp bends.\n\nThe Devon Expressway ends near the village of Kennford, south of Exeter, at the terminus of the M5. This initial section was opened in 1977, along with the remaining section of the M5, and is a three-lane dual carriageway. The village of Kennford is bypassed, on an alignment of a 1930s bypass, which was upgraded to dual carriageway in the 1960s and then widened to a dual three-lane road in 1975.\n\nA junction to the south of Exeter represents a third meeting point of the A38 with the A30, from which point the A38 multiplexes with the M5 before re-emerging from junction 27 near Waterloo Cross, north of Exeter. From junction 27 the A38 heads north via Wellington, Taunton, Bridgwater, Highbridge and Bristol. From Waterloo Cross to Birmingham, the road is paralleled by the M5, where the A38 has reverted to taking local traffic only.\n\nFrom Bristol, it continues north via Gloucester, Tewkesbury, Worcester and Bromsgrove to Birmingham. Between Worcester and Birmingham the A38 followed the line of an identified Saxon Salt road, one of six leading out of Droitwich. At Bromsgrove, it meets the M42 and the B4096 at junction 1 at Lickey End.\nIt passes through Upper Catshill and meets the M5 at junction 4 (along with the A491 road) near Lydiate Ash. From here to Edgbaston, the road is mostly dual carriageway, single-lane sections having been replaced in the first decade of the 21st century (see history section, below).\nIn the centre of Birmingham, a section of the road becomes the Aston Expressway A38(M) motorway, running from the north-eastern side of the Inner Ring Road through Aston to the junction with the M6 motorway at Gravelly Hill Interchange, better known as \"Spaghetti Junction\".\n\nThe West Midlands section of the A38 is one of the areas chosen by the Highways Agency to monitor the effectiveness of driver location signs in assisting motorists to communicate their location to the emergency services.\n\nFrom Birmingham the road bypasses Sutton Coldfield and Lichfield, before taking up the route of the Roman road, Ryknild Street, (also spelt \"Icknield\" or \"Rykneld\"), as far as Derby. At Wychnor, the road crosses the River Trent and enters the district of East Staffordshire. At Barton Turn, near the B5016 junction, the road runs right alongside the Cross Country Route for around . This railway line follows the line of the A38 from Derby to Plymouth. From Alrewas to Burton, the path called The Way for the Millennium follows the northbound carriageway.\n\nFrom Clay Mills, the road passes through the district of South Derbyshire, passing the grade separated junction with the A5132 for Willington. There is the Derby with Burton services at the Burnaston A50 interchange. The road enters the City of Derby borough north of the Littleover interchange. For nearly , the A38 forms part of Derby's outer ring road, including three roundabouts: Kingsway (or \"Grand Canyon\") for the A5111; Markeaton for the A52; and Little Eaton (or \"Abbey Hill\") for the A61 and B6179. The section of road between Kingsway roundabout to just north of Markeaton is urban in nature and thus subject to a speed limit.\n\nOriginally terminating in Derby at the junction of \"Babington Lane\" with \"St Peter's Street\" (formerly the A6), The road enters the district of Amber Valley where it passes Drum Hill just north of Little Eaton and is crossed at this point by the Midshires Way and Centenary Way. There is a junction for the B6179 to Ripley and Belper. At Alfreton, there is a grade separated junction with the A61, A615 and B6179. The section from Alfreton to the M1, the Alfreton-South Normanton Bypass, opened as the A615 in the late 1960s. This section has a grade separated junction with the B600 for Somercotes and the Cotes Park industrial estate, and where it crosses the Nottingham spur of the Midland Main Line it enters the district of Bolsover.\n\nAs a 1970s upgrade to the route of the A61 north of Derby (which became the B6179), the A38 bypasses Ripley passing through former opencast mining land, before joining end-on with the former A615 Alfreton bypass at Watchorn Intersection. The road crosses the M1 at junction 28. Into Nottinghamshire, the road bypasses Sutton-in-Ashfield, dropping to a single carriageway configuration of 1980s construction, including multiple traffic light controlled junctions – such as the Mansfield, Ashfield Regeneration Route (\"MARR\"). The final section of the A38 from Sutton, past King's Mill Hospital into Mansfield, is purely urban in nature and is single carriageway, joining the A6009 in Mansfield Town Centre at the end of the route from Cornwall to the North Midlands.\n\nWhen first designated in 1922, the A38 ran from the centre of Plymouth to Derby. It was later extended west from Plymouth on the former route of the A389 over the Torpoint Ferry to a junction with the A30 at Bodmin. When the Tamar Bridge was opened in 1961, the A38 was rerouted on the former line of the A374, through Tideford, over the new bridge and through Crownhill, joining the old route at Plympton. The old route of the A38, via Torpoint and the centre of Plymouth, was redesignated the A374.\n\nThe A38 was extended north from Derby to the M1 motorway and Mansfield in 1977, partly on the former line of the A615.\n\nThe Liskeard bypass, stretching for from the west of Liskeard to Trerulefoot, opened in June 1976.\nA public inquiry was held for the Dobwalls bypass in February 2005, which was expected to cost £32 million. The bottleneck was removed when the bypass, linking the existing Liskeard bypass to the current single carriageway section through the Glynn Valley opened in the Winter of 2008. A campaign to open this road was started by villagers in Dobwalls in 1930, but planning for building the road was not granted until 2006, the work starting on 15 November that year. Two bat bridges and one bat house were added as the road cut through existing bat flight lines. After opening the Dobwall bypass experienced problems with surface water. This led to lane closures in winter due to risk of ice. A major scheme to reconstruct a mile of the bypass started in September 2014 and is expected to last until May 2015. It is thought it will cost an extra £10.6 million.\n\nIn a separate improvement within the Glynn Valley, the Highways Agency stabilised a section of the road near Bodmin Parkway railway station. The work, which commenced in October 2007, was carried out to shore up the verge, which had been built on an embankment supported by dry stone walling and the root systems of large trees. It was completed in May 2008 seeing the installation of kerbing, road drainage gulleys, safety barriers as well as increasing the verge width to allow for a new surface water drainage system.\n\nThe A38 in Devon runs between Tamar Bridge outside Plymouth and junction 31 of the M5, where the motorway ends; this section is known as the Devon Expressway. It is mainly a two-lane dual carriageway which runs between Exeter and Plymouth serving as a continuation of the M5 motorway. It is a common route for tourists travelling to Cornwall, though those wanting to use a continuous dual carriageway route to Cornwall can use the A30 rather than the Devon Expressway. It then runs concurrently with the M5 until junction 27, where it splits and enters Somerset independent but parallel to the M5.\n\nDuring the mid-1960s, small sections of the route between Plymouth and Exeter were upgraded to dual carriageway, such as those at Dean Prior and Heathfield. This was followed by the construction of Plympton bypass in 1970-71, with the majority of realignment, such as the Ivybridge and Buckfastleigh bypasses, being completed during 1973-74. The route, now known as the Devon Expressway, was largely complete by 1975, with the final section between Kennford and the M5 opening in 1977, coinciding with the completion of the M5 during the same year. Whilst many of the sections were newly constructed realignments, some sections such as the Ashburton and Kennford bypasses were upgraded from the original 1930s single carriageway bypasses. The Parkway, the section of dual carriageway through the suburbs of Plymouth between the Tamar Bridge and Marsh Mills, was constructed in 1983-84, along a route which had been reserved for this road since 1943. This was followed by the construction of a flyover over Marsh Mills roundabout in 1992, providing a non-stop route between the Plympton bypass and the Parkway.\n\nThe Plympton bypass was used for a stage in the 1974 Tour de France, the first time the race had ever come to the United Kingdom. Popular belief is held that the Plympton bypass was newly completed, but had not yet opened. In fact, the Plympton bypass had been open some three years earlier.\n\nThe viaducts carrying the A38 over the River Plym, which after the construction of the Marsh Mills flyover became the Exeter bound sliproads, were built in 1969-1970 as part of the Plympton bypass. They were replaced in the 1990s due to suffering from Alkali Silica Reaction, and the project, completed in February 1996 at a cost of £12.25million, involved the world's largest sideways bridge slide at the time for the , 5,500 tonne bridge. This required the road to be closed for only 48 hours, winning it an AA National Motoring Award in 1996 for innovation and minimisation of traffic congestion.\n\nAs with any major road, accidents are likely to occur; however due to the substandard design of some sections of the route between Exeter and Plymouth, the accident rate has been identified as being above the national average for the type of road. A spate of accidents in April 2009 heightened local awareness of the issue, with local MP Gary Streeter calling for a review of the road. A number of improvements have been made along the route in recent years, mainly being the replacement of worn-out road surfaces, such as those at Buckfastleigh and Ivybridge. These projects have also included the replacement of signage, and the reconstruction of exit/entry slips for side turnings, in a bid to make the road safer.\n\nPresently, the route between Plymouth and the end of M5 is all dual carriageway, and branded the Devon Expressway, being the primary route that links Plymouth to the rest of the country.\n\nBeyond the end of M5, the road runs concurrently with and as the M5 until junction 27. The original route between Exeter and junction 27 of the M5 (Waterloo Cross) was downgraded to become the B3181 when the M5 was opened in 1977\n\nFrom Junction 27 of the M5 to East Brent, the A38 runs broadly parallel to the motorway: junctions 22 to 27 are mostly spurs connecting to the road and all no further than from it. The A38 runs around Wellington, through the county seat of Taunton, North Petherton and Highbridge. Beyond Highbridge and junction 22, the road departs the motorway and resumes primary status, going through Winscombe and Lower Langford. This route is the suggested route for accessing the south of Bristol and Bristol Airport from the South West.\n\nThe centre of Bridgwater was a notorious bottle neck on the \"holiday route\" as traffic from both the A38 and the A39 had to negotiate through the town centre in order to cross the River Parrett. The construction of a new reinforced concrete road bridge, the Blake Bridge, which opened in March 1958 as part of a southern bypass took much of the traffic away from the centre of Bridgwater. The opening of the M5 in 1974 further reduced the traffic pressure. This is complemented by a link road (Western Way) linking the A38 and the A39 north and west of the town respectively.\n\nMuch of the A38 through Somerset was built as single carriageway, with some three-lane passing points. However, the construction of the M5 through Somerset, in the early 1970s, led to the building of links between the A38 and the M5 in the form of new roundabouts on the A38 linking into adjacent junctions on the M5.\n\nThe A38 serves Bristol Airport to the south west of the city, and enters the city itself at Highridge, along Bedminster Down and into Bedminster. It runs through central Bristol before leaving northwards along North Street, Stokes Croft and Gloucester Road. It runs past Filton Airport in South Gloucestershire to meet the M5 again at junction 15. Thereafter it runs through Almondsbury and by-passes Thornbury to enter Gloucestershire.\n\nSouth of Bristol, the road was diverted in 2001 to cater for an extension of the runway and installation of a Category 3 landing system at Bristol Airport. The route south of the city, despite serving the airport, is single carriageway and suffers from heavy volume of traffic at peak times, and congestion along Bedminster Down. Drivers from the south are advised by road signs not to follow the A38 into the city, but to use the A3029 Winterstoke road to enter from the west, as this route has a greater capacity. As part of the \"Greater Bristol Strategic Transport Study\", a link road is under consideration to the south of Bristol. This is in part due to the congestion at Winterstoke Road and Barrow Gurney, both of which are very busy, especially the latter where the road can only accommodate travelling at one direction at a given time; and the incomplete Bristol Ring Road (A4174).\n\nThe route to the north of the city is also very busy: it runs as a single carriageway up to the junction with the A4174 ring road at Filton, and where it runs as Gloucester Road is a busy shopping parade. Beyond the ring road, it runs as a dual carriageway past Filton Airport which lies in South Gloucestershire, which contains bases for Royal Mail, Airbus, Rolls Royce and others. Beyond the junction with M5 it runs as a broad single carriageway, again parallel to the M5 in route towards Gloucester.\n\nThe present road from Bristol through Horfield was one of the additional roads added to the Bristol turnpike roads in 1749. This passed through Thornbury to Stone, just beyond the boundary of South Gloucestershire, where it met one of the Gloucester turnpike roads. From Almondsbury, the road approximately follows the line of the Roman road from Sea Mills to Gloucester. The previous main route out of Bristol (one of twelve roads from the city, turnpiked in 1727 was Stapleton and Hambrook to the upper end of Tytherington and thence to Stone. This seems to be parts of B4058, B4424, and then unclassified roads. However, Ogilvy's \"Britannia\" shows a route following the B4058 as far as Cromhall, then through Stinchcombe Bottom, Dursley, and Cam before joining the present road.\n\nThe Bristol turnpike roads were continued by a turnpike road established in 1727, described as \"from the City of Gloucester to the village of Stone being the great road from the north to west of this kingdom\". Much of the road, follows a Roman road, but deviates from it between Buckover and Whitfield.\n\nThe A38 was rerouted along the Gloucester Bypass when it was built, and the old route through the city became the A430. In 2007 the Gloucester South Western Bypass opened to traffic, costing £43 million. Though it is numbered A430 and not technically part of the A38, traffic wishing to continue on the A38 on the other side of the city is signed to use the bypass, rather than the existing A38.\n\nBeyond Gloucester, the A38 was probably only improved in 1756 under an Act dealing with roads from that city towards Cheltenham and Tewkesbury. The next section (from Coombe Hill) was improved as one of the Tewkesbury roads, again from 1727. The Act refers to this as the Upper Way to Gloucester in contrast to the Lower Way, which went via Wainsload Bridge. When this Act was renewed in 1756, the road from Tewkesbury to a farm house called the Old Blue Ball (now Bluebell Farm) was also included. This was in Earls Croome, Worcestershire, and was where one of the Worcester turnpikes ended. Much of this stretch of the road originated as a Roman road, but the later road left the Roman line near Naunton in Ripple. The name Stratford Bridge on the county boundary confirms its Roman origin there.\n\nThe current A38 road follows from the southern end of one of the Worcester turnpike trust's roads which was originally (in 1726) at Severn Stoke, but an Act of 1737 extended it to Upton Bridge (taking it past Bluebell Farm).\n\nNorth of the city, the road was a particularly important one as it connected the saltmaking centre of Droitwich with the river Severn. In 1706, this was described as heavily used for the 'carriage of salt, iron, coals and other wares'. The first Turnpike Act for this road was an extremely early one, being passed in 1713 and recites:\nThe highway from the city of Worcester to the Borough of Droitwich ... by reason of the heavy and many loads and carriages of salt and other goods which daily pass through the said road is almost impassible for the space of nine months. \nWhen it was renewed in 1725, it was extended from the Tything of Whistons to the Lower Slip of the Quay of Worcester; from Droitwich to Dyers Bridge (M5 Junction 5) near Bromsgrove; and through the town of Droitwich from \"Netherwith\" [Netherwich] Bridge to a place called \"Chapel on the Bridge\". In 1749, this was again extended through the town of Bromsgrove to Spadebourne Bridge, immediately north of the town. Where the road leaves Worcester, it again does not follow the line of the Roman road in the same direction until it picks up the Roman line, just south of Martin Hussingtree. The Roman road took a more direct line over Rainbow Hill and through Blackpole, now B4550. From Martin Hussingtree, the A38 closely follows the Roman line to beyond Bromsgrove. The present road deviates from its line when it was originally classified at Droitwich where the main road is a bypass, the old road now mostly being B4090. This happens again at Bromsgrove, where A38 is again a bypass, the old line mostly now being B4091 and Bromsgrove High Street (now partly pedestrianised, then through the town centre. The Bromsgrove Eastern Bypass was constructed in 1980. \n\nA short distance north of where the old A38 (now declassified) joins the Bromsgrove bypass, is Lickey End, where an old highway intersection has been replaced by Junction 1 of M42 motorway. Here, the road is joined from the southeast by the B4096, Alcester Road, which was from 1754 one of the roads of the Alcester turnpike trust. The continuation northwards of B4096 is called Old Birmingham Road, because it was the original route of the turnpike to Birmingham, climbing to a pass in the Lickey Hills. The Roman road also went through the same pass, but its route to the pass was probably rather straighter. Beyond the motorway junction, the A38 was turnpiked, not as the turnpike to Birmingham, but to Halesowen and Dudley, by the 1726 Act that also turnpiked Old Birmingham Road. The next Acts appointed separate trustees for the Dudley Road in 1742 and for the Birmingham Road in 1748. The road continues from the M42 Junction 1 towards Catshill and up a short incline at which there is a fork. Prior to the construction of the M5 motorway in the early 1960s, the Halesowen Road continued West whilst Birmingham Road continued North to meet the existing dual carriageway just South of Rubery. After the M5 was constructed, all traffic was diverted along Halesowen Road which was widened and lit to provide a direct route for the A38 to meet the M5 at Junction 4 at Lydiate Ash, with the dual carriageway continuing North to Rubery. The original Birmingham Road survives to this day, but is noticeably lightly trafficked due to its cul-de-sac nature. Its considerable width makes it a very popular route for learner drivers and as such is affectionately named by local people as \"Learners Mile\".\n\nThe road from Lydiate Ash to Longbridge was laid out as a new road in the early 1960s to collaborate with the construction of the M5 motorway which opened in 1962. The road passed through the centre of Rubery until the £770,000 (£ in ), Rubery Bypass opened in December 1965.\n\nLydiate Ash was the northern end of the M5 for many years in the 1960s, with traffic transferring onto the A38, which was diverted at this point to link with the M5.\n\nAt Longbridge, new turnpike joined the Roman road and the original turnpike, and runs straight towards the city centre. Hutton, the Birmingham historian described the road:\n[Birmingham] to Bromsgrove 13 miles [is] made extremely commodious for the first four miles under the patronage of John Kettle esq in 1772 at an expense of £5000, but afterwards is so confined that two horses cannot pass without danger; the sun and winds are excluded, and the rivers lie open to the stranger and he travels through dirt at midsummer. The Northfield bypass, taking traffic away from the congested town centre opened on 11 April 2007. Between Northfield and Selly Oak, the road is likely to have been in use in the medieval period as the road approximately follows the boundary of the former Weoley Park, the great park belonging to Weoley Castle. A dual carriageway bypass () of the narrow section from Selly Oak to Bournbrook opened in August 2011. This required new bridges to carry the Worcester and Birmingham Canal and the Cross-City railway line over the road. The destination of the Roman road was clearly Metchley Fort, but A38 turns away towards the city centre.\n\nAfter Selly Oak, the A38 takes the Bristol Road into the city as far as the Belgrave Interchange with the A4540 Middleway ring road. The city centre section takes a novel line, laid out as part of extensive reconstruction works in the 1960s, and is one of the few remaining pieces of the original \"concrete collar\" inner ring road. Thanks to being mostly underground, travelling through an underpass at Holloway Head and the two Queensway tunnels at Paradise Circus and Snow Hill, plus a flyover at Lancaster Circus, the A38 is able to travel straight through the city centre uninterrupted, eventually meeting, at a final underpass beneath Dartmouth Circus, the A38(M) Aston Expressway. The old road took a largely similar line as far as what is now Paradise Circus, before zig-zagging in a less direct and much slower route through the city centre, taking in the north side of New Street Station and then travelling along Corporation street to briefly rejoin its modern alignment.\n\nBetween exiting the city centre and the M6 junction 6 (\"Spaghetti Junction\") at Salford (on the border between Aston and Erdington), the modern route follows the A38(M) Aston Expressway, an unusual 7-lane, single carriageway (and speed limited to 50 mph) urban motorway which uses an electronic signage-controlled tidal flow system to provide 3 lanes each way off-peak, and a 4/2 lane split at peak times (prioritising citybound traffic in the morning, and outbound traffic at night). This merges directly onto the M6 in both directions, as well as the A5127 and A38 surface streets, via an intertwined series of flyovers, meaning there is an uninterrupted run from the motorway and these suburban feeder roads all the way to the southern ring road junction. The original route is now taken by the A5127, starting and terminating at the same points but providing a somewhat slower ride through mixed industrial and residential areas with several roundabout and traffic light controlled at-grade crossings, and since signed and re-engineered with a focus on local access, public transport and non-motorway traffic.\n\nBeyond Salford, the A38 used to pass through Erdington, Wylde Green and particularly Sutton Coldfield town centres (and then Four Oaks, Mere Green and Shenstone) on its way towards Lichfield, before the extensive Sutton Coldfield Bypass was built. This passes far to the east of its namesake town, as well as many other north Birmingham suburbs from Erdington through to Four Oaks, requiring an extensive diversion and use of redesignated link roads to access. The old route between Salford and Lichfield is now the A5127, with the A38 designation being transferred to the Kingsbury/Tyburn Roads (former A4097) at the south end between Aston and the bypass origin at Minworth, and the London Road (former A446) at the north end between its terminus at Bassett's Pole and the Lichfield turn, where it (and, via the A5148 link road, the A5127, A5, and now M6 Toll) joins the A38 Lichfield bypass, with the old London road continuing into Lichfield as the A5206. Along the way, it has large roundabout interchanges with the A453 (Sutton-Tamworth, locally) and A5 roads, the latter having been upgraded with a free-flow underpass for the A38 to ease congestion, in concert with the former A5 through Hints being superseded by a dual carriageway bypass starting at the A38.\n\nThe bypass is 2-lane dual carriageway throughout, offers a 40 mph speed limit from Salford to Minworth, and is national speed limit (70 mph for light vehicles) for most of the rest of its run. It is not, however, well-grade separated; all junctions as far as Minworth are at-grade, and although most minor local roads pass over or under the rural section without interacting with it at all (or at least are limited to left-in/left-out access only), a new underpass has been built at Weeford, and many gaps have been stopped up, there still remains some flat junctions with major cross-roads and right-turn gaps in the central reservation even as far as the Lichfield junction itself (beyond which, the road is of a somewhat higher standard).\n\nIn Erdington and Sutton Coldfield, the original A5127 has been bypassed a second time by more minor urban relief roads, easing congestion in and allowing partial pedestrianisation of their respective town centre shopping areas. A further bypass between Sutton centre and the northern junction with the A453 Tamworth Road has long been under consideration to remove pressure from the narrow, mediaeval \"high street\" section (that features a pair of historic coaching inns and was, originally, part of the A38), but no actual plans have yet been confirmed even after many decades of discussion.\n\nThe bypass itself has been partly superseded, initially by the M42 further to the east, and in more recent years by the M6 Toll, which intersects it at junction T3, runs directly alongside part of the former A446 section between Bassett's Pole and Weeford Island, where it veers off (and has a further junction, T4) to shadow the A5 instead, also crossing the A5127 (at the limited-access junction T5) a few miles later on. The bypass has been effectively slightly downgraded as a result, first with the at-grade, signalised roundabouts of junction T3 interrupting traffic flow, and soon after by the imposition of a 60 mph, SPECS-enforced average speed limit (ostensibly because of a substandard alignment - parts of the southbound carriageway were formed directly from the old A446 - and in order to discourage illegal car and motorcycle racing) on the A453-to-A5 section, making the toll road a slightly faster option even during off-peak hours.\n\nHistorically, it is not clear which turnpike trust was responsible for the section of road from Birmingham to Lichfield, or even whether it \"was\" a turnpike. Also, the A5127 out of Sutton picks up the Roman road route a little north of Mere Green (having itself diverted via Metchley Fort, the modern suburbs of Perry Barr and Kingstanding, then Sutton Park and Four Oaks/Little Aston), and follows it to Lichfield. The point south of Lichfield where it interchanges with the A5 (once a staggered junction, altered to a simpler crossroads roundabout by the Wall Bypass, then complicated once more by the coming of the A38/A5148 and M6 Toll) marks the crossing of two Roman streets, with the old A5 continuing to the historic fort of Wall, a mile or so after branching off to the west.\n\nThe road (now A5127) from the county boundary at Shenstone Woodend, through Shenstone to Lichfield was one of the roads of the Lichfield Turnpike Trust, established in 1729. However, this section of the old A38 has been replaced by new dual carriageways.\n\nBeyond Lichfield, the old A38 (now A5127) joins the Roman Ryknild Street at Streethay and immediately after that A5127 joins the present A38. Ryknild Street had to that point run roughly parallel to A38, but following a different line from Metchley through Wall, its line sometimes being used by modern roads (including B4138).\n\nThe section from Lichfield to Alrewas was dualled in 1958. The £500,000 (£ in ), section from Alrewas to Wychnor Farm near Wychnor Hall, and the £150,000 (£ in ),section from Wychnor Farm to Barton Turn both opened in 1962. The further section of the route was improved to dual carriageway standard, including the £350,000 section from Barton Turn (near Barton-under-Needwood) to Branston in February 1964, bypassing Burton upon Trent in June 1967 (costing £2.6M (£ in ),), which stretched from Branston to Clay Mills and actually shortened the route – now the A5121 - by ), and in recent years many of the at-grade junctions have been upgraded or stopped-up.\n\nThis long stretch of road closely follows Ryknild Street (whose destination was the Roman fort at Little Chester) until just short of Branston where A38 swings west, perhaps to avoid low ground. The Roman road is used by minor roads through the suburbs of Burton upon Trent and then A5121 to rejoin the present A38 beyond the river Dove near Clay Mills. The road from Lichfield to Burton upon Trent was another of the roads maintained by the Lichfield Turnpike Trust from 1729. This diverged from the present line at Branston, taking the road through the town centre, and is now classified as A5121. The road from Burton to Derby was turpiked in 1753. Beyond the start of the Derby bypass, the old A38 has been reclassified as A5250. This follows Ryknild Street as far as Littleover.\n\nIn March 1969, the 'Allestree Link Road', from the A6 at Allestree to the former A61 was opened, crossing the River Derwent and Midland Main Line.\n\nFurther improvements in the late 1960s and 1970s saw construction of the £5.2 million (£ in ) Mickleover bypass to the south-west of Derby opened on 19 February 1975. Although the government had approved the section through Allestree as early as 1974, before the Mickleover bypass had been completed, this section had many objections from nearby residents, delaying its construction (from the A52 to the A6). It was opposed directly by Derby Borough Council and the former Derby Higher Education College. The £17 million (£ in ) road was eventually opened on 7 September 1983, known as \"Queensway\". An extension of the A38 northwards, crossing the M1 at Junction 28, and ending in Mansfield was built. The £3 million (£ in ) Little Eaton-Holbrook Improvement opened on 3 October 1977.\n\nThe £12 million (£ in ) Ripley-Swanwick Bypass was opened by Eric Varley (MP for Chesterfield) on 21 October 1977, although the section from Alfreton to the Hartshay Hill roundabout with the A610 had been open to traffic since 5 September 1977.\n\nTo the east of Junction 28 of the M1, the road used to be the A615 until October 1977. The alignment of this road is relatively modern as the dangerous junction with Berristow Lane was improved to grade-separated in the late 1990s, incorporating access to a busy shopping centre.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70631", "title": "Alexander von Humboldt", "text": "Alexander von Humboldt\n\nFriedrich Wilhelm Heinrich Alexander von Humboldt (; ; 14 September 17696 May 1859) was a Prussian polymath, geographer, naturalist, explorer, and influential proponent of Romantic philosophy and science. He was the younger brother of the Prussian minister, philosopher, and linguist Wilhelm von Humboldt (1767–1835). Humboldt's quantitative work on botanical geography laid the foundation for the field of biogeography. Humboldt's advocacy of long-term systematic geophysical measurement laid the foundation for modern geomagnetic and meteorological monitoring.\n\nBetween 1799 and 1804, Humboldt travelled extensively in the Americas, exploring and describing it for the first time from a modern scientific point of view. His description of the journey was written up and published in an enormous set of volumes over 21 years. Humboldt was one of the first people to propose that the lands bordering the Atlantic Ocean were once joined (South America and Africa in particular). Humboldt resurrected the use of the word \"cosmos\" from the ancient Greek and assigned it to his multi-volume treatise, \"Kosmos\", in which he sought to unify diverse branches of scientific knowledge and culture. This important work also motivated a holistic perception of the universe as one interacting entity. He was the first person to describe the phenomenon and cause of human-induced climate change, in 1800 and again in 1831, based on observations generated during his travels.\n\nAlexander von Humboldt was born in Berlin in Prussia on 14 September 1769. He was baptized as a baby in the Lutheran faith, with the Duke of Brunswick serving as godfather.\n\nHumboldt's father, Alexander Georg von Humboldt, belonged to a prominent Pomeranian family, although not one of the titled gentry; a major in the Prussian Army, who had served with the Duke of Brunswick. At age 42, Alexander Georg was rewarded for his services in the Seven Years' War with the post of Royal Chamberlain. He profited from the contract to lease state lotteries and tobacco sales. He first married the daughter of Prussian General Adjutant Schweder. In 1766, Alexander Georg married Maria Elisabeth Colomb, a well-educated woman and widow of Baron Hollwede, with whom she had a son. Alexander Georg and Maria Elisabeth had three children, a daughter, who died young, and then two sons, Wilhelm and Alexander. Her first-born son, Wilhelm's and Alexander's half-brother, was something of a ne'er do well, not often mentioned in the family history.\n\nAlexander Georg died in 1779, leaving the brothers Humboldt in the care of their emotionally distant mother. She did have high ambitions for Alexander and his older brother Wilhelm, hiring excellent tutors, who were Enlightenment thinkers, including Kantian physician Marcus Herz and botanist Karl Ludwig Willdenow, who became one of the most important botanists in Germany. Humboldt's mother expected them to become civil servants of the Prussian state. The money Baron Holwede left to Alexander's mother became, after her death, instrumental in funding Alexander's explorations, contributing more than 70% of his private income.\n\nDue to his youthful penchant for collecting and labeling plants, shells and insects, Alexander received the playful title of \"the little apothecary\". Marked for a political career, Alexander studied finance for six months in 1787 at the University of Frankfurt (Oder), which his mother might have chosen less for its academic excellence than its closeness to their home in Berlin. On 25 April 1789 he matriculated at Göttingen, then known for the lectures of C. G. Heyne and anatomist J. F. Blumenbach. His brother Wilhelm was already a student at Göttingen, but they did not interact much since their intellectual interests were quite different. His vast and varied interests were by this time fully developed.\n\nAt Göttingen he met Georg Forster, a naturalist who had been with Captain James Cook on his second voyage. Humboldt traveled with Forster in Europe. The two traveled to England, Humboldt's first sea voyage, The Netherlands, and France. In England, he met Sir Joseph Banks, President of the Royal Society, who had traveled with Captain Cook; Banks showed Humboldt his huge herbarium, with specimens of the South Sea tropics. The scientific friendship between Banks and Humboldt lasted until Banks's death in 1820, and the two shared botanical specimens for study. Banks also mobilized his scientific contacts in later years to aid Humboldt's work.\n\nHumboldt's scientific excursion up the Rhine resulted in his 1790 treatise \"Mineralogische Beobachtungen über einige Basalte am Rhein\" (Brunswick, 1790) (\"Mineralogic Observations on Several Basalts on the River Rhine\").\nHumboldt's passion for travel was of long standing. Humboldt's talents were devoted to the purpose of preparing himself as a scientific explorer. With this emphasis, he studied commerce and foreign languages at Hamburg, geology at Technische Universität Bergakademie Freiberg in 1791 under A.G. Werner, leader of the Neptunist school of geology; from anatomy at Jena under J.C. Loder; and astronomy and the use of scientific instruments under F.X. von Zach and J.G. Köhler. At Freiberg, he met a number of men who were to prove important to him in his later career, including Spaniard Manuel del Rio, who became director of the School of Mines the crown established in Mexico; Christian Leopold von Buch, who became a regional geologist; and, most importantly, Karl Freiesleben, who became Humboldt's tutor and close friend. During this period, his brother Wilhelm married, but Alexander did not attend the nuptials.\n\nHumboldt graduated from the Freiberg School of Mines in 1792 and was appointed to a Prussian government position in the Department of Mines as an inspector in Bayreuth and the Fichtel mountains. Humboldt was excellent at his job, with production of gold ore in his first year outstripping the previous eight years. During his period as a mine inspector, Humboldt demonstrated his deep concern for the men laboring in the mines. He opened a free school for miners, paid for out of his own pocket, which became an unchartered government training school for labor. He also sought to establish an emergency relief fund for miners, aiding them following accidents.\n\nHumboldt's researches into the vegetation of the mines of Freiberg led to the publication in Latin (1793) of his \"Florae Fribergensis, accedunt Aphorismi ex Doctrina, Physiologiae Chemicae Plantarum\", which was a compendium of his botantical researches. That publication brought him to the attention of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, who had met Humboldt at the family home when Alexander was a boy, but Goethe was now interested in meeting the young scientist in order to discuss metamorphism of plants. An introduction was arranged by Humboldt's brother who lived in the university town of Jena, not far from Goethe. Goethe had developed his own extensive theories on comparative anatomy. Working before Darwin, he believed that animals had an internal force, an \"urform\", that gave them a basic shape and then they were further adapted to their environment by an external force. Humboldt urged him to publish his theories. Together the two discussed and expanded these ideas. Goethe and Humboldt soon became close friends.\n\nHumboldt would often return to Jena in the years that followed. Goethe remarked about Humboldt to friends that he had never met anyone so versatile. Humboldt's drive served as an inspiration for Goethe. In 1797, Humboldt returned to Jena for three months. During this time Goethe moved from his residence in Weimar to reside in Jena. Together Humboldt and Goethe would attend university lectures on anatomy and conduct their own experiments. One experiment involved hooking up a frog leg to various metals. They found no effect until the moisture of Humboldt's breath triggered a reaction that caused the frog leg to leap off the table. Humboldt would describe this as one of his favorite experiments because it was as if he was \"breathing life into\" the leg.\n\nDuring this visit, a thunderstorm killed a farmer and his wife. Humboldt obtained their corpses and analyzed them in the anatomy tower of the university.\nIn 1794 Humboldt was admitted to the famous group of intellectuals and cultural leaders of Weimar Classicism. Goethe and Schiller were the key figures at the time. Humboldt contributed (7 June 1795) to Schiller's new periodical, \"Die Horen\", a philosophical allegory entitled \"Die Lebenskraft, oder der rhodische Genius\".\n\nIn 1792 and 1797 Humboldt was in Vienna; in 1795 he made a geological and botanical tour through Switzerland and Italy. Although this service to the state was regarded by him as only an apprenticeship to the service of science, he fulfilled its duties with such conspicuous ability that not only did he rise rapidly to the highest post in his department, but he was also entrusted with several important diplomatic missions.\n\nThe death of his stern mother, on 19 November 1796 after a year's suffering with cancer, set him free. Neither brother attended the funeral. Humboldt had not hidden his aversion to his mother, with one correspondent writing him after her death, \"her death...must be particularly welcomed by you.\" After severing his official connections, he awaited an opportunity to fulfill his long-cherished dream of travel.\n\nHumboldt was able to spend more time on writing up his research. He had used his own body for experimentation on muscular irritability, recently discovered by Luigi Galvani and published his results, \"Versuche über die gereizte Muskel- und Nervenfaser\" (Berlin, 1797) (\"Experiments on Stimulated Muscle and Nerve Fibres\"), enriched in the French translation with notes by Blumenbach.\n\nWith the financial resources to finance his scientific travels, he sought a ship on a major expedition. Meantime, he went to Paris where his brother Wilhelm was now living. Paris was a great center of scientific learning and his brother and sister-in-law Caroline were well connected in those circles. Louis-Antoine de Bougainville urged Humboldt to accompany him on a major expedition, likely to last five years, but the French revolutionary Directoire placed Nicolas Baudin at the head of it rather than the aging scientific traveler. On the postponement of Captain Baudin's proposed voyage of circumnavigation due to continuing warfare in Europe, which Humboldt had been officially invited to accompany, Humboldt was deeply disappointed. He had already selected scientific instruments for his voyage. He did, however, have a stroke of luck with meeting Aimé Bonpland, the botanist and physician for the voyage. Discouraged, the two left Paris for Marseilles, where they hoped to join Napoleon Bonaparte in Egypt. But North Africans were in revolt against the French invasion in Egypt and French authorities refused permission to travel. Humboldt and Bonpland eventually found their way to Madrid, where their luck changed spectacularly.\n\nIn Madrid, Humboldt sought authorization to travel to Spain's realms in the Americas; he was aided in obtaining it by the German representative of Saxony at the royal Bourbon court. Baron Forell had an interest in mineralogy and science endeavors and inclined to help Humboldt. Humboldt's timing could not have been better to interest the Spanish crown in an extended scientific expedition to their possessions in the New World. With the accession of the House of Bourbon to the Spanish throne following the death of the last Habsburg king, Charles II (died 1700), and the War of the Spanish Succession, which the House of Bourbon won, the Spanish Bourbons embarked on a program of reform in Spain and then Spanish America. The Bourbon Reforms sought to reform administration of the realms and revitalize their economies. At the same time as the Bourbon reforms, the Spanish Enlightenment was in florescence. For Humboldt, \"the confluent effect of the Bourbon revolution in government and the Spanish Enlightenment had created ideal conditions for his venture.\"\n\nThe Bourbon monarchy had already authorized and funded expeditions, with the Botanical Expedition to the Viceroyalty of Peru to Chile and Peru (1777–88), New Granada (1783–1816), New Spain (Mexico) (1787–1803), and the Malaspina Expedition (1789–94). These were lengthy, state-sponsored enterprises to gather information about plants and animals from the Spanish realms, assess economic possibilities, and provide plants and seeds for the Royal Botanical Garden in Madrid (founded 1755). These expeditions took naturalists and artists, who created visual images as well as careful written observations as well as collecting seeds and plants themselves. Crown officials as early as 1779 issued and systematically distributed \"Instructions concerning the most secure and economic means to transport live plants by land and sea from the most distant countries\", with illustrations, including one for the crates to transport seeds and plants.\n\nWhen Humboldt requested authorization from the crown to travel to Spanish America, most importantly, with his own financing, it was given positive response. Spain under the Hapsburg monarchy had guarded its realms against foreigner travelers and intruders. The Bourbon monarch was open to Humboldt's proposal. Spanish Foreign Minister Don Mariano Luis de Urquijo received the formal proposal and Humboldt was presented to the monarch in March 1799. Humboldt was granted access to crown officials and written documentation on Spain's empire. With Humboldt's experience working for the absolutist Prussian monarchy as a government mining official, Humboldt had both the academic training and experience of working well within a bureaucratic structure.\n\nBefore leaving Madrid in 1799, Humboldt and Bonpland visited the Natural History Museum which held results of Martín de Sessé y Lacasta and José Mariano Mociño's botanical expedition to New Spain. Humboldt and Bonpland met Hipólito Ruiz López and José Antonio Pavón y Jiménez of the royal expedition to Peru and Chile in person in Madrid and examined their botanical collections.\n\nArmed with authorization from the King of Spain, Humboldt and Bonpland made haste to sail, taking the ship \"Pizarro\" from A Coruña, on 5 June 1799. The ship stopped six days on the island of Tenerife, where Humboldt climbed the volcano Teide, and then sailed on to the New World, landing at Cumaná, Venezuela, on 16 July.\n\nThe ship's destination was not originally Cumaná, but an outbreak of typhoid on board meant that the captain changed course from Havana to land in northern South America. Humboldt had not mapped out a specific plan of exploration, so that the change did not upend a fixed itinerary. He later wrote that the diversion to Venezuela made possible his explorations along the Orinoco River to the border of Portuguese Brazil. With the diversion, the \"Pizarro\" encountered two large dugout canoes each carrying 18 Guayaqui Indians. The \"Pizarro\"s captain accepted the offer of one of them to serve as pilot. Humboldt hired this Indian, named Carlos del Pino, as a guide.\n\nVenezuela from the sixteenth century to the eighteenth was a relative backwater compared to the seats of the Spanish viceroyalties based in New Spain (Mexico) and Peru, but during the Bourbon reforms, the northern portion of Spanish South America was reorganized administratively, with the 1777 establishment of a Captaincy-General based at Caracas. A great deal of information on the new jurisdiction had already been compiled by François de Pons but was not published until 1806. Rather than describe the administrative center of Caracas, Humboldt started his researches with the valley of Aragua where export crops of sugar, coffee, cacao, and cotton were cultivated. Cacao plantations were the most profitable as world demand for chocolate rose.\n\nHumboldt visited the mission at Caripe and explored the Guácharo cavern, where he found the oilbird, which he was to make known to science as \"Steatornis caripensis\". Also described the Guanoco asphalt lake as \"The spring of the good priest\" (\"Quelle des guten Priesters\"). Returning to Cumaná, Humboldt observed, on the night of 11–12 November, a remarkable meteor shower (the Leonids). He proceeded with Bonpland to Caracas where he climbed the Avila mount with the young poet Andrés Bello, the former tutor of Simón Bolívar, who later became the leader of independence in northern South America. Humboldt met the Venezuelan Bolívar himself in 1804 in Paris and spent time with him in Rome. The documentary record does not support the supposition that Humboldt inspired Bolívar to participate in the struggle for independence, but it does indicate Bolívar's admiration for Humboldt's production of new knowledge on Spanish America.\n\nIn February 1800, Humboldt and Bonpland left the coast with the purpose of exploring the course of the Orinoco River and its tributaries. This trip, which lasted four months and covered of wild and largely uninhabited country, had the important result of establishing the existence of the Casiquiare canal (a communication between the water-systems of the rivers Orinoco and Amazon), and of determining the exact position of the bifurcation, as well as documenting the life of several native tribes such as the Maipures and their extinct rivals the Atures (several words of the latter tribe were transferred to Humboldt by one parrot). Around 19 March 1800, Humboldt and Bonpland discovered dangerous electric eels, whose shock could kill a man. To catch them, locals suggested they drive wild horses into the river, which brought the eels out from the river mud, and resulted in a violent confrontation of eels and horses, some of which died. Humboldt and Bonpland captured and dissected some eels, which retained their ability to shock; both received potentially dangerous electric shocks during their investigations. The encounter made Humboldt think more deeply about electricity and magnetism, typical of his ability to extrapolate from an observation to more general principles. Humboldt returned to the incident in several of his later writings, including his travelogue \"Personal Narrative\" (1814–29), \"Views of Nature\" (1807), and \"Aspects of Nature\" (1849).\n\nTwo months later they explored the territory of the Maypures and that of the then recently extinct Aturès Indians. Humboldt laid to rest the persistent myth of Walter Raleigh's Lake Parime by proposing that the seasonal flooding of the Rupununi savannah had been misidentified as a lake.\n\nOn 24 November 1800, the two friends set sail for Cuba, landing on 19 December, where they met fellow botanist and plant collector John Fraser. Fraser and his son had been shipwrecked off the Cuban coast, and did not have a license to be in the Spanish Indies. Humboldt, who was already in Cuba, interceded with crown officials in Havana, as well as giving them money and clothing. Fraser obtained permission to remain in Cuba and explore. Humboldt entrusted Fraser with taking two cases of Humboldt and Bonpland's botanical specimens to England when he returned, for eventual conveyance to the German botantist Willdenow in Berlin. Humboldt and Bonpland stayed in Cuba until 5 March 1801, when they left for the mainland of northern South America again, arriving there on 30 March.\n\nHumboldt is considered to be the \"second discoverer of Cuba\" due to the scientific and social research he conducted on this Spanish colony. During an initial three-month stay at Havana, his first tasks were to properly survey that city and the nearby towns of Guanabacoa, Regla and Bejucal. He befriended Cuban landowner and thinker Francisco de Arango y Parreño; together they visited the area in south Havana, the valleys of Matanzas Province and the Valley of the Sugar Mills in Trinidad. Those three areas were, at the time, the first frontier of sugar production in the island. During those trips, Humboldt collected statistical information on Cuba's population, production, technology and trade, and with Arango, made suggestions for enhancing them. He predicted that the agricultural and commercial potential of Cuba was huge and could be vastly improved with proper leadership in the future.\n\nOn their way back to Europe from Mexico on their way to the United States, Humboldt and Bonpland stopped again in Cuba, leaving from the port of Veracruz and arriving in Cuba on 7 January 1804, staying until 29 April 1804. In Cuba, he collected plant material and made extensive notes. During his time he socialized with his scientific and landowner friends, conducted mineralogical surveys and finished his vast collection of the island's flora and fauna that he eventually published as \"Essai politique sur l'îsle de Cuba\".\n\nAfter their first stay in Cuba of three months they returned the mainland at Cartagena de Indias (now in Colombia), a major center of trade in northern South America. Ascending the swollen stream of the Magdalena River to Honda and arrived in Bogotá on 6 July 1801 where they met the Spanish botanist José Celestino Mutis, head of the Royal Botanical Expedition to New Granada, staying there until 8 September 1801. Mutis was generous with his time and gave Humboldt access to the huge pictorial record he had compiled since 1783. Mutis was based in Bogotá, but as with other Spanish expeditions, he had access to local knowledge and a workshop of artists, who created highly accurate and detailed images. This type of careful recording meant that even if specimens were not available to study at a distance, \"because the images traveled, the botanists did not have to.\" Humboldt was astounded at Mutis's accomplishment; when Humboldt published his first volume on botany, he dedicated it to Mutis, \"as a simply mark of our admiration and acknowledgement.\"\n\nHumboldt had hopes of connecting with the French sailing expedition of Baudin, now finally underway, so Bonpland and Humboldt hurried to Ecuador. They crossed the frozen ridges of the Cordillera Real, they reached Quito on 6 January 1802, after a tedious and difficult journey.\n\nTheir stay in Ecuador was marked by the ascent of Pichincha and their climb of Chimborazo, where Humboldt and his party reached an altitude of . This was a world record at the time, but a thousand feet short of the summit. Humboldt's journey concluded with an expedition to the sources of the Amazon \"en route\" for Lima, Peru.\n\nAt Callao, the main port for Peru, Humboldt observed the transit of Mercury on 9 November and studied the fertilizing properties of guano, rich in nitrogen, the subsequent introduction of which into Europe was due mainly to his writings.\n\nHumboldt and Bonpland had not intended to go to New Spain, but when they were unable to join a voyage to the Pacific, they left the Ecuadorian port of Guayaquil and headed for Acapulco on Mexico's west coast, landing there on 15 February 1803. Even before Humboldt and Bonpland started on their way to New Spain's capital on Mexico's central plateau, Humboldt realized the captain of the vessel that brought them to Acapulco had reckoned its location incorrectly. Since Acapulco was the main west coast port and the terminus of the Asian trade from the Spanish Philippines, having accurate maps of its location was extremely important. Humboldt set up his instruments, surveying the deep water bay of Acapulco, to determine its longitude.\n\nHumboldt and Bonpland arrived in Mexico City, having been officially welcomed via a letter from the king's representative in New Spain, Viceroy Don José de Iturrigaray. Humboldt was also given a special passport to travel throughout New Spain and letters of introduction to intendants, the highest officials in New Spain's administrative districts (intendancies). This official aid to Humboldt allowed him to have access to crown records, mines, landed estates, canals, and Mexican antiquities from the prehispanic era. Humboldt read the writings of Bishop-elect of the important diocese of Michoacan Manuel Abad y Queipo, a classical liberal, that were directed to the crown for the improvement of New Spain.\n\nThey spent the year in the viceroyalty, traveling to different Mexican cities in the central plateau and the northern mining region. The first journey was from Acapulco to Mexico City, through what is now the Mexican state of Guerrero. The route was suitable only for mule train, and all along the way Humboldt took measurements of elevation. When he left Mexico a year later in 1804, from the east coast port of Veracruz, he took a similar set of measures, which resulted in a chart in the \"Political Essay\", the physical plan of Mexico with the dangers of the road from Acapulco to Mexico City, and from Mexico City to Veracruz. This visual depiction of elevation was part of Humboldt's general insistence that the data he collected be presented in a way more easily understood than statistical charts. A great deal of his success in gaining a more general readership for his works was his understanding that \"anything that has to do with extent or quantity can be represented geometrically. Statistical projections [charts and graphs], which speak to the senses without tiring the intellect have the advantage of bringing attention to a large number of important facts.\"\n\nHumboldt was impressed with Mexico City, which at the time was the largest city in the Americas, and one that could be counted as modern. He declared \"no city of the new continent, without even excepting those of the United States, can display such great and solid scientific establishments as the capital of Mexico.\" He pointed to the Royal College of Mines, the Royal Botanical Garden and the Royal Academy of San Carlos as exemplars of a metropolitan capital in touch with the latest developments on the continent and insisting on its modernity. He also recognized important creole savants in Mexico, including José Antonio de Alzate y Ramírez, who died in 1799, just before Humboldt's visit; Miguel Velásquez de León; and Antonio de León y Gama.\n\nHumboldt spent time at the Valenciana silver mine in Guanajuato, central New Spain, at the time the most important in the Spanish empire. The bicentennial of his visit in Guanajuato was celebrated with a conference at the University of Guanajuato, with Mexican academics highlighting various aspects of his impact on the city. Humboldt could have simply examined the geology of the fabulously rich mine, but he took the opportunity to study the entire mining complex as well as analyze mining statistics of its output. His report on silver mining is a major contribution, and considered the strongest and best informed section of his \"Political Essay\". Although Humboldt was himself a trained geologist and mining inspector, he drew on mining experts in Mexico. One was Fausto Elhuyar, then head of the General Mining Court in Mexico City, who, like Humboldt was trained in Freiberg. Another was Andrés Manuel del Río, director of Royal College of Mines, whom Humboldt knew when they were both students in Freiberg. The Bourbon monarchs had established the mining court and the college to elevate mining as a profession, since revenues from silver constituted the crown's largest source of income. Humboldt also consulted other German mining experts, who were already in Mexico. While Humboldt was a welcome foreign scientist and mining expert, the Spanish crown had established fertile ground for Humboldt's investigations into mining.\n\nSpanish America's ancient civilizations were a source of interest for Humboldt, who included images of Mexican manuscripts (or codices) and Inca ruins in his richly illustrated \"Vues des cordillères et monuments des peuples indigènes de l'Amerique\" (1810–1813), the most experimental of Humboldt's publications, since it does not have \"a single ordering principle\" but his opinions and contentions based on observation. For Humboldt, a key question was the influence of climate on the development of these civilizations. When he published his \"Vues des cordillères\", he included a color image of the Aztec calendar stone, which had been discovered buried in the main plaza of Mexico City in 1790, along with select drawings of the Dresden codex and others he sought out later in European collections. His aim was to muster evidence that these pictorial and sculptural images could allow the reconstruction of prehispanic history. He sought out Mexican experts in the interpretation of sources from there, especially Antonio Pichardo, who was the literary executor of Antonio de León y Gama's work. For American-born Spaniards (creoles) who were seeking sources of pride in Mexico's ancient past, Humboldt's recognition of these ancient works and dissemination in his publications was a boon. He read the work of exiled Jesuit Francisco Javier Clavijero, which celebrated Mexico's prehispanic civilization, and which Humboldt invoked to counter the pejorative assertions about the new world by Buffon, de Pauw, and Raynal. Humboldt ultimately viewed both the prehispanic realms of Mexico and Peru as despotic and barbaric. However, he also drew attention to indigenous monuments and artifacts as cultural productions that had \"both ... historical \"and\" artistic significance.\"\n\nOne of his most widely read publications resulting from his travels and investigations in Spanish America was the \"Essai politique sur le royaum de la Nouvelle Espagne\", quickly translated to English as \"Political Essay on the Kingdom of New Spain\" (1811). This treatise was the result of Humboldt's own investigations as well as the generosity of Spanish colonial officials for statistical data.\n\nLeaving from Cuba, Humboldt decided to take an unplanned short visit to the United States. Knowing that the current U.S. president, Thomas Jefferson, was himself a scientist, Humboldt wrote to him saying that he would be in the United States. Jefferson warmly replied, inviting him to visit the White House in the nation's new capital. In his letter Humboldt had gained Jefferson's interest by mentioning that he had discovered mammoth teeth near the Equator. Jefferson had previously written that he believed mammoths had never lived so far south. Humboldt had also hinted at his knowledge of New Spain.\n\nArriving in Philadelphia, which was a center of learning in the U.S., Humboldt met with some of the major scientific figures of the era, including chemist and anatomist Caspar Wistar, who pushed for compulsory smallpox vaccination, and botanist Benjamin Smith Barton, as well as physician Benjamin Rush, a signer of the Declaration of Independence, who wished to hear about cinchona bark from a South American tree, which cured fevers. Humboldt later published a treatise in English on cinchona.\n\nAfter arriving in Washington D.C, Humboldt held numerous intense discussions with Jefferson on both scientific matters and also his year-long stay in New Spain. Jefferson had only recently concluded the Louisiana Purchase, which now placed New Spain on the southwest border of the United States. The Spanish minister in Washington, D.C. had declined to furnish the U.S. government with information about Spanish territories, and access to the territories was strictly controlled. Humboldt was able to supply Jefferson with the latest information on the population, trade agriculture and military of New Spain. This information would later be the basis for his \"Essay on the Political Kingdom of New Spain\" (1810). Jefferson was unsure of where the border of the newly-purchased Louisiana was precisely, and Humboldt wrote him a two-page report on the matter. Jefferson would later refer to Humboldt as \"the most scientific man of the age\". Albert Gallatin, Secretary of the Treasury, said of Humboldt, \"I was delighted and swallowed more information of various kinds in less than two hours than I had for two years past in all I had read or heard.\" Gallatin, in turn, supplied Humboldt with information he sought on the United States.\n\nAfter six weeks, Humboldt set sail for Europe from the mouth of the Delaware and landed at Bordeaux on 3 August 1804.\n\nHumboldt kept a detailed diary of his sojourn to Spanish America, running some 4,000 pages, which he drew on directly for his multiple publications following the expedition. The leather-bound diaries themselves are now in Germany, having been returned from Russia to East Germany, where they were taken by the Red Army after World War II. Following German reunification, the diaries were returned to a descendant of Humboldt. For a time, there was concern about their being sold, but that was averted. A government-funded project to digitize the Spanish American expedition as well as his later Russian expedition has been undertaken (2014-2017) by the University of Potsdam and the German State Library - Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation.\n\nHumboldt's decades' long endeavor to publish the results of this expedition not only resulted in multiple volumes, but also made his international reputation in scientific circles. Humboldt came to be well-known with the reading public as well, with popular, densely illustrated, condensed versions of his work in multiple languages. Bonpland, his fellow scientist and collaborator on the expedition, collected botanical specimens and preserved them, but unlike Humboldt who had a passion to publish, Bonpland had to be prodded to do the formal descriptions. Many scientific travelers and explorers produced huge visual records, which remained unseen by the general public until the late nineteenth century, in the case of the Malaspina Expedition, and even the late twentieth century, when Mutis's botanical, some 12,000 drawings from New Granada, was published. Humboldt, by contrast, published immediately and continuously, using and ultimately exhausting his personal fortune, to produce both scientific and popular texts. Humboldt's name and fame were made by his travels to Spanish America, particularly his publication of the \"Political Essay on the Kingdom of New Spain\". His image as the premier European scientist was a later development.\n\nFor the Bourbon crown, which had authorized the expedition, the returns were not only tremendous in terms of sheer volume of data on their New World realms, but in dispelling the vague and pejorative assessments of the New World by Guillaume-Thomas Raynal, Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon, and William Robertson. The achievements of the Bourbon regime, especially in New Spain, were evident in the precise data Humboldt systematized and published.\n\nThis memorable expedition may be regarded as having laid the foundation of the sciences of physical geography, plant geography, and meteorology. Key to that was Humboldt's meticulous and systematic measurement of phenomena with the most advanced instruments then available. He closely observed plant and animal species in situ, not just in isolation, noting all elements in relation to one other. He collected specimens of plants and animals, dividing the growing collection so that if a portion was lost, other parts might survive.\n\nHumboldt saw the need for an approach to science that could account for the harmony of nature among the diversity of the physical world. For Humboldt, \"the unity of nature\" meant that it was the interrelation of all physical sciences—such as the conjoining between biology, meteorology and geology—that determined where specific plants grew. He found these relationships by unraveling myriad, painstakingly collected data, data extensive enough that it became an enduring foundation upon which others could base their work. Humboldt viewed nature holistically, and tried to explain natural phenomena without the appeal to religious dogma. He believed in the central importance of observation, and as a consequence had amassed a vast array of the most sophisticated scientific instruments then available. Each had its own velvet lined box and was the most accurate and portable of its time; nothing quantifiable escaped measurement. According to Humboldt, everything should be measured with the finest and most modern instruments and sophisticated techniques available, for that collected data was the basis of all scientific understanding.\n\nThis quantitative methodology would become known as Humboldtian science. Humboldt wrote \"Nature herself is sublimely eloquent. The stars as they sparkle in firmament fill us with delight and ecstasy, and yet they all move in orbit marked out with mathematical precision.\"\nHis \"Essay on the Geography of Plants\" (published first in French and then German, both in 1807) was based on the then novel idea of studying the distribution of organic life as affected by varying physical conditions. This was most famously depicted in his published cross-section of Chimborazo, approximately two feet by three feet (54 cm x 84 cm) color pictorial, he called \"Ein Naturgemälde der Anden\" and what is also called the Chimborazo Map. It was a fold-out at the back of the publication. Humboldt first sketched the map when he was in South America, which included written descriptions on either side of the cross-section of Chimborazo. These detailed the information on temperature, altitude, humidity, atmosphere pressure, and the animal and plants (with their scientific names) found at each elevation. Plants from the same genus appear at different elevations. The depiction is on an east-west axis going from the Pacific coast lowlands to the Andean range of which Chimborazo was a part, and the eastern Amazonian basin. Humboldt showed the three zones of coast, mountains, and Amazonia, based on his own observations, but he also drew on existing Spanish sources, particularly Pedro Cieza de León, which he explicitly referred to. The Spanish American scientist Francisco José de Caldas had also measured and observed mountain environments and had earlier come to similar ideas about environmental factors in the distribution of life forms. Humboldt was thus not putting forward something entirely new, but it is argued that his finding is not derivative either. The Chimborazo map displayed complex information in an accessible fashion. The map was the basis for comparison with other major peaks. \"The Naturgemälde showed for the first time that nature was a global force with corresponding climate zones across continents.\" Another assessment of the map is that it \"marked the beginning of a new era of environmental science, not only of mountain ecology but also of global-scale biogeophysical patterns and processes.\"\n\nBy his delineation (in 1817) of isothermal lines, he at once suggested the idea and devised the means of comparing the climatic conditions of various countries. He first investigated the rate of decrease in mean temperature with the increase in elevation above sea level, and afforded, by his inquiries regarding the origin of tropical storms, the earliest clue to the detection of the more complicated law governing atmospheric disturbances in higher latitudes. This was a major contribution to climatology.\n\nHis discovery of the decrease in intensity of Earth's magnetic field from the poles to the equator was communicated to the Paris Institute in a memoir read by him on 7 December 1804. Its importance was attested by the speedy emergence of rival claims.\n\nHis services to geology were based on his attentive study of the volcanoes of the Andes and Mexico, which he observed and sketched, climbed, and measured with a variety of instruments. By climbing Chimborazo, he established an altitude record which became the basis for measurement of other volcanoes in the Andes and the Himalayas. As with other aspects of his investigations, he developed methods to show his synthesized results visually, using the graphic method of geologic-cross sections. He showed that volcanoes fell naturally into linear groups, presumably corresponding with vast subterranean fissures; and by his demonstration of the igneous origin of rocks previously held to be of aqueous formation, he contributed largely to the elimination of erroneous views, such as Neptunism.\n\nHumboldt was a significant contributor to cartography, creating maps, particularly of New Spain, that became the template for later mapmakers in Mexico. His careful recording of latitude and longitude led to accurate maps of Mexico, the port of Acapulco, the port of Veracruz, and the Valley of Mexico, and a map showing trade patterns among continents. His maps also included schematic information on geography, converting areas of administrative districts (intendancies) using proportional squares. The U.S. was keen to see his maps and statistics on New Spain, since they had implication for territorial claims following the Louisiana Purchase. Later in life, Humboldt published three volumes (1836–39) examining sources that dealt with the early voyages to the Americas, pursuing his interest in nautical astronomy in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. His research yielded the origin of the name \"America\", put on a map of the Americas by Martin Waldseemüller.\n\nHumboldt conducted a census of the indigenous and European inhabitants in New Spain, publishing a schematized drawing of racial types and populations distribution, grouping them by region and social characteristics. He estimated the population to be six million individuals. He estimated Indians to be forty percent of New Spain's population, but their distribution being uneven; the most dense were in the center and south of Mexico, the least dense in the north. He presented these data in chart form, for easier understanding. He also surveyed the non-Indian population, categorized as Whites (Spaniards), \"Negroes\", and castes (\"castas\"). American-born Spaniards, so-called \"creoles\" had been painting depictions of mixed-race family groupings in the eighteenth century, showing father of one racial category, mother of another, and the offspring in a third category in hierarchical order, so racial hierarchy was an essential way elites viewed Mexican society. Although American-born Spaniards were legally racial equals of those born in Spain, crown policy since the Bourbons took the Spanish throne privileged those born in Iberia. Humboldt observed that \"the most miserable European, without education and without intellectual cultivation, thinks himself superior to whites born in the new continent.\" The enmity between the creoles and the peninsular-born whites increasingly became an issue in the late period of Spanish rule, with creoles increasingly alienated from the crown. Humboldt's assessment was that abuses royal government and the example of a new model of rule in the United States were eroded the unity of whites in New Spain. Humboldt's writings on race in New Spain were shaped by the memorials of the classical liberal, enlightened Bishop-elect of Michoacán, Manuel Abad y Queipo, who personally presented Humboldt with his printed memorials to the Spanish crown critiquing social and economic conditions and his recommendations for eliminating them.\n\nOne scholar says that his writings contain fantastical descriptions of America, while leaving out its inhabitants, stating that Humboldt, coming from the Romantic school of thought, believed '... nature is perfect till man deforms it with care.' The further assessment is that he largely neglected the human societies amidst nature. Views of indigenous peoples as 'savage' or 'unimportant' leaves them out of the historical picture. Other scholars counter that Humboldt dedicated large parts of his work to describing the conditions of slaves, indigenous peoples, mixed-race castas, and society in general. He often showed his disgust for the slavery and inhumane conditions in which indigenous peoples and others were treated and he often criticized Spanish colonial policies.\n\nHumboldt was not primarily an artist, but he could draw well, allowing him to record a visual record of particular places and their natural environment. Many of his drawings became the basis for illustrations of his many scientific and general publications. Artists whom Humboldt influenced, such as Johann Moritz Rugendas, followed in his path and painted the same places Humboldt had visited and recorded, such as the basalt formations in Mexico, which was an illustration in his \"Vues des Cordillères\".\n\nThe editing and publication of the encyclopedic mass of scientific, political and archaeological material that had been collected by him during his absence from Europe was now Humboldt's most urgent desire. After a short trip to Italy with Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac for the purpose of investigating the law of magnetic declination and a stay of two and a half years in Berlin, in the spring of 1808, he settled in Paris. His purpose for being located there was to secure the scientific cooperation required for bringing his great work through the press. This colossal task, which he at first hoped would occupy but two years, eventually cost him twenty-one, and even then it remained incomplete.\n\nDuring his lifetime Humboldt became one of the most famous men in Europe. Academies, both native and foreign, were eager to elect him to their membership, the first being The American Philosophical Society in Philadelphia, which he visited at the tail end of his travel through the Americas. He was elected to the Prussian Academy of Sciences in 1805. Over the years other learned societies in the U.S. elected him a member, including the American Antiquarian Society (Worcester, MA) in 1816; the New York Historical Society in 1820; a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1822.; the American Ethnological Society (New York) in 1843; and the American Geographical and Statistical Society, (New York) in 1856. He was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1810. The Royal Society, whose president Sir Joseph Banks had aided Humboldt as a young man, now welcomed him as a foreign member.\n\nAfter Mexican independence from Spain in 1821, the Mexican government recognized him with high honors for his services to the nation. In 1827, the first President of Mexico, Guadalupe Victoria granted Humboldt Mexican citizenship and in 1859, the President of Mexico, Benito Juárez, named Humboldt a hero of the nation (\"benemérito de la nación\"). The gestures were purely honorary; he never returned to the Americas following his expedition.\n\nImportantly for Humboldt's long term financial stability, King Frederick William III of Prussia conferred upon him the honor of the post of royal chamberlain, without at the time exacting the duties. The appointment had a pension of 2,500 thalers, afterwards doubled. This official stipend became his main source of income in later years when he exhausted his fortune on the publications of his research. Financial necessity forced his permanent relocation to Berlin in 1827 from Paris. In Paris he found not only scientific sympathy, but the social stimulus which his vigorous and healthy mind eagerly craved. He was equally in his element as the lion of the salons and as the savant of the Institut de France and the observatory.\n\nOn 12 May 1827 he settled permanently in Berlin, where his first efforts were directed towards the furtherance of the science of terrestrial magnetism. In 1827, he began giving public lectures in Berlin, which became the basis for his last major publication, \"Kosmos\" (1845–62).\n\nFor many years, it had been one of his favorite schemes to secure, by means of simultaneous observations at distant points, a thorough investigation of the nature and law of \"magnetic storms\" (a term invented by him to designate abnormal disturbances of Earth's magnetism). The meeting at Berlin, on 18 September 1828, of a newly formed scientific association, of which he was elected president, gave him the opportunity of setting on foot an extensive system of research in combination with his diligent personal observations. His appeal to the Russian government, in 1829, led to the establishment of a line of magnetic and meteorological stations across northern Asia. Meanwhile, his letter to the Duke of Sussex, then (April 1836) president of the Royal Society, secured for the undertaking, the wide basis of the British dominions.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", Eleventh Edition, observes, \"Thus that scientific conspiracy of nations which is one of the noblest fruits of modern civilization was by his exertions first successfully organized\". However, earlier examples of international scientific cooperation exist, notably the 18th-century observations of the transits of Venus.\n\nIn 1869, the 100th year of his birth, Humboldt's fame was so great that cities all over America celebrated his birth with large festivals. In New York City, a bust of his head was unveiled in Central Park.\n\nScholars have speculated about the reasons for Humboldt's declining renown among the public. Sandra Nichols has argued that there are three reasons for this. First, a trend towards specialization in scholarship. Humboldt was a generalist who connected many disciplines in his work. Today, academics have become more and more focused on narrow fields of work. Humboldt combined ecology, geography and even social sciences. Second, a change in writing style. Humboldt's works, which were considered essential to a library in 1869, had flowery prose that fell out of fashion. One critic said they had a \"laborious picturesqueness\". Humboldt himself said that, \"If I only knew how to describe adequately how and what I felt, I might, after this long journey of mine, really be able to give happiness to people. The disjointed life I lead makes me hardly certain of my way of writing\". Third, a rising anti-German sentiment in the late 1800s and the early 1900s due to heavy German immigration to the United States and later World War 1. On the eve of the 1959 hundredth anniversary of the death of Humboldt, the government of West Germany planned significant celebrations in conjunction with nations that Humboldt visited.\n\nIn 1811, and again in 1818, projects of Asiatic exploration were proposed to Humboldt, first by Czar Nicolas I's Russian government, and afterwards by the Prussian government; but on each occasion, untoward circumstances interposed. It was not until he had begun his sixtieth year that he resumed his early role of traveler in the interests of science.\n\nThe Russian Foreign Minister, Count Georg von Cancrin contacted Humboldt about whether a platinum-based currency was possible in Russia and invited him to visit the Ural Mountains. Humboldt was not encouraging about a platinum-based currency, when silver was the standard as a world currency. But the invitation to visit the Urals was intriguing, especially since Humboldt had long dreamed of going to Asia. He had wanted to travel to India and made considerable efforts to persuade the British East India Company to authorize a trip, but those efforts were fruitless. When Russia renewed its earlier invitation to Humboldt, Humboldt accepted. The Russians sought to entice Humboldt by engaging his enduring interest in mining sites, for comparative scientific purposes for Humboldt, but for the Russians to gain expert knowledge about their resources. For Humboldt, the Russian monarch's promise to fund the trip was extremely important, since Humboldt's inherited 100,000 thaler fortune was gone and he lived on the Prussian government pension of 2,500-3,000 thalers as the monarch's chamberlain. The Russian government gave an advance of 1200 \"chervontsev\" in Berlin and another 20,000 when he arrived in St Petersburg.\n\nHumboldt was eager to travel not just to the Urals, but also across the steppes of Siberia to Russia's border with China. Humboldt wrote Cancrin saying that he intended to learn Russian to read mining journals in the language. As the details of the expedition were worked out, Humboldt said that he would travel to Russia in his own French coach, with a German servant, as well as Gustav Rose, a professor of chemistry and mineralogy. He also invited Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg to join the expedition, to study water micro-organisms in Lake Baikal and the Caspian Sea. Humboldt himself was keen to continue his studies of magnetism of mountains and mineral deposits. As was usual for his research, he brought scientific instruments to take the most accurate measurements. The Russians organized the local arrangements, including lodging, horses, accompanying crew. Humboldt's title for the expedition was as an official of the Department of Mines. As the expedition neared dangerous areas, he had to travel in a convoy with an escort.\n\nPhysically Humboldt was in good condition, despite his advancing years, writing to Cancrin \"I still walk very lightly on foot, nine to ten hours without resting, despite my age and my white hair.\"\n\nBetween May and November 1829 he and the growing expedition traversed the wide expanse of the Russian empire from the Neva to the Yenisei, accomplishing in twenty-five weeks a distance of . Humboldt and the expedition party traveled by coach on well maintained roads, with rapid progress being made because of changes of horses at way stations. The party had grown, with Johann Seifert, who was a huntsman and collector of animal specimens; a Russian mining official; Count Adolphe Polier, one of Humboldt's friends from Paris; a cook; plus a contingent of Cossacks for security. Three carriages were filled with people, supplies, and scientific instruments. For Humboldt's magnetic readings to be accurate, they carried an iron-free tent. This expedition was unlike his Spanish American travels with Bonpland, with the two alone and sometimes accompanied by local guides.\n\nThe Russian government was interested in Humboldt finding prospects for mining and commercial advancement of the realm and made it clear that Humboldt was not to investigate social issues, nor criticize social conditions of Russian serfs. In his publications on Spanish America, he did comment on the conditions of the indigenous populations, and deplored black slavery, but well after he had left those territories. As Humboldt discovered, the government kept tight control of the expedition, even when it was from Moscow, with local government officials greeting the expedition at every stop. The itinerary was planned with Tobolsk the farthest destination, then a return to St Petersburg.\n\nHumboldt wrote to the Russian Minister Cancrin that he was extending his travel, knowing that the missive would not reach him in time to scuttle the plan. The further east he journeyed into wilder territory, the more Humboldt enjoyed it. They still followed the Siberian Highway and made excellent progress, sometimes a hundred miles (160 km) in a day. Although they were halted at the end of July and warned of an anthrax outbreak, Humboldt decided to continue despite the danger. \"At my age, nothing should be postponed.\"\n\nThe journey though carried out with all the advantages afforded by the immediate patronage of the Russian government, was too rapid to be profitable scientifically. The correction of the prevalent exaggerated estimate of the height of the Central Asian plateau, and the prediction of the discovery of diamonds in the gold-washings of the Urals, were important aspects of these travels. In the end, the expedition took 8 months, traveled 15,500 km, stopped at 658 post stations, and used 12,244 horses.\n\nOne writer claims that \"Nothing was quite as Humboldt wanted it. The entire expedition was a compromise.\". The Russian emperor offered Humboldt an invitation to return to Russia, but Humboldt declined, due to his disapproval of Nicholas's restrictions on his freedom of movement during the expedition and his ability to freely report on it. Humboldt published two works on the Russian expedition, first \"Fragmens de géologie et de la climatologie asiastique\" in 1831, based on lectures he gave on the topic. In 1843, he completed the three-volume \"Asie Centrale\", which he dedicated to Czar Nicholas, which he called \"an unavoidable step, as the expedition was accomplished at his expense.\" As of 2016, these works have not been translated to English. His 1829 expedition to Russia when he was an old man is much less known than his five-year travels in Spanish America, which had resulted in many published volumes over the decades since his 1804 return. Nevertheless, it gave Humboldt comparative data for his various later scientific publications.\n\n\"Kosmos\" was Humboldt's multi-volume effort in his later years to write a work bringing together all the research from his long career. The writing took shape in lectures he delivered before the University of Berlin in the winter of 1827–28. These lectures would form \"the cartoon for the great fresco of the \"[K]osmos\"\". His 1829 expedition to Russia supplied him with data comparative to his Latin American expedition.\n\nThe first two volumes of the \"Kosmos\" were published between the years 1845 and 1847 were intended to comprise the entire work, but Humboldt published three more volumes, one of which was posthumous. Humboldt had long aimed to write a comprehensive work about geography and the natural sciences. The work attempted to unify the sciences then known in a Kantian framework. With inspiration from German Romanticism, Humboldt sought to create a compendium of the world's environment. He spent the last decade of his long life — as he called them, his \"improbable\" years — continuing this work. The third and fourth volumes were published in 1850–58; a fragment of a fifth appeared posthumously in 1862.\n\nHis reputation had long since been made with his publications on the Latin American expedition. There is not a consensus on the importance of \"Kosmos\". One scholar, who stresses the importance of Humboldt's \"Political Essay on the Kingdom of New Spain\" as essential reading, dismisses \"Kosmos\" as \"little more than an academic curiosity.\" A different opinion is that \"Kosmos\" was his \"most influential book.\"\n\nAs with most of Humboldt's works, \"Kosmos\" was also translated into multiple languages in editions of uneven quality. It was very popular in Britain and America. In 1849 a German newspaper commented that in England two of the three different translations were made by women, \"while in Germany most of the men do not understand it.\" The first translation by Augustin Pritchard — published anonymously by Mr. Baillière (volume I in 1845 and volume II in 1848) — suffered from being hurriedly made. In a letter Humboldt said of it: \"It will damage my reputation. All the charm of my description is destroyed by an English sounding like Sanskrit.\"\n\nThe other two translations were made by Elizabeth Juliana Leeves Sabine under the superintendence of her husband Col. Edward Sabine (4 volumes 1846–1858), and by Elise Otté (5 volumes 1849–1858, the only complete translation of the 4 German volumes). These three translations were also published in the United States. The numbering of the volumes differs between the German and the English editions. Volume 3 of the German edition corresponds to the volumes 3 and 4 of the English translation, as the German volume appeared in 2 parts in 1850 and 1851. Volume 5 of the German edition was not translated until 1981, again by a woman. Otté's translation benefited from a detailed table of contents, and an index for every volume; of the German edition only volumes 4 and 5 had (extremely short) tables of contents, and the index to the whole work only appeared with volume 5 in 1862. Less well known in Germany is the atlas belonging to the German edition of the Cosmos \"Berghaus' Physikalischer Atlas\", better known as the pirated version by Traugott Bromme under the title \"Atlas zu Alexander von Humboldt's Kosmos\" (Stuttgart 1861).\n\nIn Britain, Heinrich Berghaus planned to publish together with Alexander Keith Johnston a \"Physical Atlas\". But later Johnston published it alone under the title \"The Physical Atlas of Natural Phenomena\". In Britain its connection to the \"Cosmos\" seems not have been recognized.\n\nAlexander von Humboldt published prolifically throughout his life. Many works were published originally in French or German, then translated to other languages, sometimes with competing translation editions. Humboldt himself did not keep track of all the various editions. He wrote specialized works on particular topics of botany, zoology, astronomy, mineralogy, among others, but he also wrote general works that attracted a wide readership, especially his \"Personal Narrative of Travels to the Equinoctial Regions of the New Continent during the years 1799-1804\" His \"Political Essay on the Kingdom of New Spain\" was widely read in Mexico itself, the United States, as well as in Europe.\n\nMany of the original works have been digitally scanned by the Biodiversity Library. There have been new editions of print works, including his \"Views of the Cordilleras and Monuments of the Indigenous Peoples of the Americas\" (2014), which includes reproductions of all the color and black and white plates. In the original edition, the publication was in a large format and quite expensive. There is a 2009 translation of his \"Geography of Plants\" and a 2014 English edition of \"Views of Nature\".\n\nHumboldt was generous toward his friends and mentored young scientists. He and Bonpland parted ways after their return to Europe, and Humboldt largely took on the task of publishing the results of their Latin American expedition at Humboldt's expense, but he included Bonpland as co-author on the nearly published 30 volumes. Bonpland returned to Latin America, settling in Buenos Aires, Argentina, then moved to the countryside near the border with Paraguay. The forces of Dr. José Gaspar Rodríguez de Francia, the strong man of Paraguay, abducted Bonpland after killing Bonpland's estate workers. Bonpland was accused of \"agricultural espionage\" and of threatening Paraguay's virtual monopoly on the cultivation of yerba mate. Despite international pressure, including the British government and Simón Bolívar's, along with European scientists including Humboldt, Francia kept Bonpland prisoner until 1831. He was released after nearly 10 years in Paraguay. Humboldt and Bonpland maintained a warm correspondence about science and politics until Bonpland's death in 1858.\n\nDuring Humboldt's time in Paris, he met in 1818 the young and brilliant Peruvian student of the Royal Mining School of Paris, Mariano Eduardo de Rivero y Ustariz. Subsequently, Humboldt acted as a mentor of the career of this promising Peruvian scientist. Another recipient of Humboldt's aid was Louis Agassiz (1807–1873), who was directly aided with needed cash from Humboldt, assistance in securing an academic position, and help with getting his research on zoology published. Agassiz sent him copies of his publications and went on to gain considerable scientific recognition as a professor at Harvard. Agassiz delivered an address to the Boston Society of Natural History in 1869, on the centenary of his patron's birth. When Humboldt was an elderly man, he aided another young scholar, Gotthold Eisenstein, a brilliant, young, Jewish mathematician in Berlin, for whom he obtained a small crown pension and whom he nominated for the Academy of Science.\n\nHumboldt's popular writings inspired many scientists and naturalists, including Charles Darwin, Henry David Thoreau, John Muir, George Perkins Marsh, Ernst Haeckel, as well as brothers Richard Schomburgk and Robert Schomburgk.\n\nHumboldt carried on correspondence with many contemporaries and two volumes of letters to Karl August Varnhagen von Ense have been published.\n\nCharles Darwin made frequent reference to Humboldt's work in his \"Voyage of the Beagle\", where Darwin described his own scientific exploration of the Americas. In one note, he placed Humboldt first on the \"list of American travellers\". Darwin's work was influenced by Humboldt's writing style as well. Darwin's sister remarked to him \"you had, probably from reading so much of Humboldt, got his phraseology and the kind of flower French expressions he uses.\"\n\nWhen Darwin's \"Journal\" was published, he sent a copy to Humboldt, who responded, \"You told me in your kind letter that, when you were young, the manner in which I studied and depicted nature in the torrid zones contributed toward exciting in you the ardour and desire to travel in distant lands. Considering the importance of your work, Sir, this may be the greatest success that my humble work could bring.\" In his autobiography, Darwin recalled, reading \"with care and profound interest Humboldt's \"Personal Narrative\"\" and finding it one of the two most influential books on his work, which stirred in him \"a burning zeal to add even the most humble contribution to the noble structure of Natural Science.\"\n\nHumboldt would later reveal to Darwin in the 1840s that he had been a fan of Darwin's grandfather's poetry. Erasmus Darwin had published the poem \"Loves of the Plants\" in the early 1800s. Humboldt praised the poem for combing nature and imagination, a theme that permeated Humboldt's own work.\nA number of nineteenth-century artists traveled to Latin America, following in the footsteps of Humboldt, painting landscapes and scenes of everyday life. Johann Moritz Rugendas, Ferdinand Bellermann, and Eduard Hildebrandt were three important European painters. Frederic Edwin Church was the most famous landscape painter in the U.S. in the nineteenth century. His paintings of Andean volcanoes that Humboldt climbed helped make Church's reputation. His 5 foot by 10 foot painting entitled Heart of the Andes \"caused a sensation\" when it was completed. Church had hoped to ship the painting to Berlin to show the painting to Humboldt, but Humboldt died a few days after Church's letter was written. Church painted Cotopaxi three times, twice in 1855 and then in 1859 in eruption.\n\nGeorge Catlin, most famous for his portraits of North American Indians and paintings of life among various North American tribes also traveled to South America, producing a number of paintings. He wrote to Humboldt in 1855, sending him his proposal for South American travels. Humboldt replied, thanking him and sending a memorandum helping guide his travels.\n\nIn the Napoleonic wars, Prussia had capitulated to France, signing the Treaty of Tilsit. The Prussian royal family returned to Berlin, but sought better terms of the treaty and Friedrich Wilhelm III commissioned his younger brother Prince Wilhelm with this. Friedrich Wilhelm III asked Alexander to be part of the mission, charged with introducing the prince to Paris society. This turn of events for Humboldt could not have been better, since he desired to live in Paris rather than Berlin.\n\nIn 1814 Humboldt accompanied the allied sovereigns to London. Three years later he was summoned by the king of Prussia to attend him at the congress of Aachen. Again in the autumn of 1822 he accompanied the same monarch to the Congress of Verona, proceeded thence with the royal party to Rome and Naples and returned to Paris in the spring of 1823. Humboldt had long regarded Paris as his true home. Thus, when at last he received from his sovereign a summons to join his court at Berlin, he obeyed reluctantly.\n\nBetween 1830 and 1848 Humboldt was frequently employed in diplomatic missions to the court of King Louis Philippe of France, with whom he always maintained the most cordial personal relations. Charles X of France had been overthrown, with Louis-Philippe of the house of Orléans becoming king. Humboldt knew the family, and he was sent by the Prussian monarch to Paris to report on events to his monarch. He spent three years in France, from 1830 to 1833. His friends François Arago and François Guizot, who were appointed to posts in Louis-Philippe's government.\n\nHumboldt's brother, Wilhelm, died on 8 April 1835. Alexander lamented that he had lost half of himself with the death of his brother. Upon the accession of the crown prince Frederick William IV in June 1840, Humboldt's favor at court increased. Indeed, the new king's craving for Humboldt's company became at times so importunate as to leave him only a few waking hours to work on his writing.\n\nBecause Humboldt did not mention God in his work \"Cosmos\", and sometimes spoke unfavourably of hypocritical religious attitudes, it was occasionally speculated that he was a materialist philosopher, or perhaps an atheist. However, unlike irreligious figures such as Robert G. Ingersoll, who went so far as to use Humboldtian science to campaign against religion, Humboldt himself denied imputations of atheism. In a letter to Varnhagen von Ense he emphasized that he believed the world had indeed been created, writing of \"Cosmos\": \"...'creation' and the 'created world' are never lost sight of in the book. And did I not, only eight months ago, in the French translation, say, in the plainest terms: 'It is this necessity of things, this occult but permanent connection, this periodical return in the progress, development of formation, phenomena, and events which constitute 'Nature' submissive to a controlling power?'\"\n\nIt has been argued that \"although Humboldt emphasizes the basis of morality in the nature of man, he does acknowledge that a belief in God is linked directly to acts of virtue\" and therefore \"the dignity of man lies at the centre of Humboldt's religious thought.\"\n\nHumboldt also believed firmly in an afterlife. A letter he wrote to his friend Charlotte Hildebrand Diede states: \"God constantly appoints the course of nature and of circumstances; so that, including his existence in an eternal future, the happiness of the individual does not perish, but on the contrary grows and increases.\"\n\nHumboldt remained distant of organized religion: he did not believe in the Bible as an inerrant document, nor in the divinity of Jesus; yet, Humboldt still held deep respect for the ideal side of religious belief and church life within human communities. He differentiated between \"negative\" religions, and those \"all positive religions [which] consist of three distinct parts — a code of morals which is nearly the same in all of them, and generally very pure; a geological chimera, and a myth or a little historical novel.\" In \"Cosmos\", he wrote about how rich geological descriptions were found in different religious traditions, and stated:\"Christianity gradually diffused itself, and, wherever it was adopted as the religion of the state, it not only exercised a beneficial condition on the lower classes by inculcating the social freedom of mankind, but also expanded the views of men in their communion with Nature...this tendency to glorify the Deity in his works gave rise to a taste for natural observation.\"\n\nHumboldt showed religious tolerance towards Judaism, and he criticized the political \"Jews Bill\", which was an initiative intended to establish legal discrimination against Jews. He called this an \"abominable\" law, since he hoped to see Jews being treated equally in society.\n\nMuch of Humboldt's private life remains a mystery because he destroyed his private letters. While a gregarious personality, he may have harbored a sense of social alienation, which drove his passion for escape through travel.\n\nHumboldt never married: while he was charmed by a number of attractive women, including Henriette, the wife of his mentor Marcus Herz, his sister-in-law Caroline von Humboldt stated \"nothing will ever have a great influence on Alexander that doesn't come through men.\" He had many strong male friendships, and at times had romances with men.\n\nAs a student he became infatuated with Wilhelm Gabriel Wegener, a theology student, penning a succession of letters expressing his \"fervent love\". At 25 he met Reinhardt von Haeften (19 May 1772 – 20 October 1803), a 21-year-old lieutenant, with whom he lived and travelled for two years, and to whom he wrote in 1794: \"I only live through you, my good precious Reinhardt.\" When von Haeften became engaged, Humboldt begged to remain living with him and his wife: \"Even if you must refuse me, treat me coldly with disdain, I should still want to be with you...the love I have for you is not just friendship or brotherly love, it is veneration.\"\n\nA travelling companion in the Americas for five years was Aimé Bonpland, and in Quito in 1802 he met the Ecuadorian aristocrat Don Carlos Montúfar, who travelled with Humboldt to Europe and lived with him. In France, Humboldt travelled and lived with the physicist and balloonist Joseph Louis Gay Lussac. Later he had a deep friendship with the married French astronomer François Arago, whom he met daily for 15 years.\n\nHumboldt once wrote, \"I don't know sensual needs.\" However, a pious travelling companion, Francisco José de Caldas, accused him of frequenting houses in Quito where \"impure love reigned\", of making friends with \"obscene dissolute youths\", of giving vent to \"shameful passions of his heart\", and dropping him to travel with \"Bonpland and his Adonis\"[Monúfar].\n\nHumboldt inherited a significant fortune, but the expense of his travels, and most especially of publishing (thirty volumes in all), had by 1834 made him totally reliant on the pension of King Frederick William III. Although he preferred living in Paris, by 1836 the King had insisted he return to Germany. He lived with the Court at Sanssouci, and latterly in Berlin, with his valet Seifert, who had accompanied him to Russia in 1829.\n\nFour years before his death, Humboldt executed a deed of gift transferring his entire estate to the dominating Seifert, who had by then married and set up a household near Humboldt's apartment. Humboldt had become godfather to his daughter. The scale of the bequest has always drawn speculation, especially as Seifert was some thirty years younger, and introducing lower class partners into households under the guise of servants was then a common practice.\n\nIn 1908, the sexual researcher Paul Näcke gathered reminiscences from homosexuals including Humboldt's friend the botanist Karl Bolle, then 90 years old: some of the material was incorporated by Magnus Hirschfeld into his 1914 study \"Homosexuality in Men and Women.\" However, speculations about Humboldt's private life and possible homosexuality continue to remain a fractious issue amongst scholars, particularly as earlier biographers had portrayed him as \"a largely asexual, Christ-like Humboldt figure...suitable as a national idol.\"\n\nOn 24 February 1857, Humboldt suffered a minor stroke, which passed without perceptible symptoms. It was not until the winter of 1858–1859 that his strength began to decline; on 6 May 1859, he died peacefully in Berlin, aged 89. His last words were reported to be \"How glorious these sunbeams are! They seem to call Earth to the Heavens!\" His remains were conveyed in state through the streets of Berlin, in a hearse drawn by six horses. Royal chamberlains led the cortège, each charged with carrying a pillow with Humboldt's medals and other decorations of honor. Humboldt's extended family, descendants of his brother Wilhelm, walked in the procession. Humboldt's coffin was received by the prince-regent at the door of the cathedral. He was interred at the family resting-place at Tegel, alongside his brother Wilhelm and sister-in-law Caroline.\n\nThe honours which had been showered on Humboldt during life continued after his death. More places and species are named after Humboldt than after any other human being. The first centenary of Humboldt's birth was celebrated on 14 September 1869, with great enthusiasm in both the New and Old Worlds. Numerous monuments were constructed in his honour, such as Humboldt Park in Chicago, planned that year and constructed shortly after the Chicago fire. Newly explored regions and species named after Humboldt, as discussed below, also stand as a measure of his wide fame and popularity.\n\n\nHumboldt described many geographical features and species that were hitherto unknown to Europeans. Species named after him include:\n\nFeatures named after him include:\n\n\nThe following places are named for Humboldt:\n\n\n\nAlexander von Humboldt also lends his name to a prominent lecture series in Human geography in the Netherlands (hosted by the Radboud University Nijmegen). It is the Dutch equivalent of the widely known annual Hettner lectures at the University of Heidelberg.\n\nAfter his death, Humboldt's friends and colleagues created the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (\"Stiftung\" in German) to continue his generous support of young academics. Although the original endowment was lost in the German hyperinflation of the 1920s, and again as a result of World War II, the Foundation has been re-endowed by the German government to award young academics and distinguished senior academics from abroad. It plays an important role in attracting foreign researchers to work in Germany and enabling German researchers to work abroad for a period.\n\nEdgar Allan Poe dedicated his last major work, \"\", to Humboldt, \"With Very Profound Respect\". Humboldt's attempt to unify the sciences in his \"Kosmos\" was a big inspiration for Poe's project.\n\n\"Alexander von Humboldt\" is also a German ship named after the scientist originally built in 1906 by the German shipyard AG Weser at Bremen as Reserve Sonderburg. She was operated throughout the North and Baltic Seas until being retired in 1986. Subsequently, she was converted into a three masted barque by the German shipyard Motorwerke Bremerhaven and was re-launched in 1988 as \"Alexander von Humboldt\".\n\nSimón Bolívar wrote that \"The real discoverer of South America was Humboldt, since his work was more useful for our people than the work of all conquerors.\" Charles Darwin expressed his debt to Humboldt, and admiration for his work, writing to Joseph Dalton Hooker that Humboldt was the \"greatest scientific traveller who ever lived\". Wilhelm von Humboldt wrote that \"Alexander is destined to combine ideas and follow chains of thoughts which would otherwise have remained unknown for ages. His depth, his sharp mind and his incredible speed are a rare combination.\" Johann Wolfgang Goethe observed that \"Humboldt showers us with true treasures.\" Friedrich Schiller wrote that \"Alexander impresses many, particularly when compared to his brother - because he shows off more!\" José de la Luz y Caballero wrote that \"Columbus gave Europe a New World; Humboldt made it known in its physical, material, intellectual, and moral aspects.\" Napoléon Bonaparte remarked \"You have been studying Botanics? Just like my wife!\" Claude Louis Berthollet said \"This man is as knowledgeable as a whole academy.\" Thomas Jefferson remarked \"I consider him the most important scientist whom I have met.\" Emil Du Bois-Reymond wrote that \"Every scientist is a descendant of Humboldt. We are all his family.\" Robert G. Ingersoll wrote that \"He was to science what Shakespeare was to the drama.\"\n\nHermann von Helmholtz wrote that \"During the first half of the present century we had an Alexander von Humboldt, who was able to scan the scientific knowledge of his time in its details, and to bring it within one vast generalization. At the present juncture, it is obviously very doubtful whether this task could be accomplished in a similar way, even by a mind with gifts so peculiarly suited for the purpose as Humboldt's was, and if all his time and work were devoted to the purpose.\"\n\n\n\"Le voyage aux régions equinoxiales du Nouveau Continent, fait en 1799–1804, par Alexandre de Humboldt et Aimé Bonpland\" (Paris, 1807, etc.), consisted of thirty folio and quarto volumes, including:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43599198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43599198", "title": "Beeron National Park", "text": "Beeron National Park\n\nBeeron National Park is a national park at Beeron in the Wide Bay–Burnett region of Queensland, Australia. The 7050-hectare park preserves plant species of high conservation value.\n\nIt is part of both the North Burnett Region and South Burnett Region local government areas and the Brigalow Belt bioregion. The park lies within the catchment area of the Boyne River, a tributary of the Burnett River.\n\nBeeron National Park is home to six endemic species and three plants with conservation significance.\n\nIn 2010, an extra 7,000 hectares significantly extended the size of the park. The addition was made possible by the cooperation of two mining companies who relinquished their mining permits.\n\nSouth and west of the national park is Allies Creek State Forest. It is undeveloped with no visitor facilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "55503707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55503707", "title": "Boris K. Stegmann", "text": "Boris K. Stegmann\n\nBoris Karlovich Stegmann (25 December 1898-28 December 1975) was a Russian ornithologist of German descent who worked on zoogeography. \n\nStegmann was born in Pskov, Russia. He worked at the Russian Academy of Sciences from 1921 in the ornithology department. He became a research assistant in 1928 and worked on various bird groups. In 1938 he published his ideas on nine avifaunal centres within the Old World. This was an influential work in its time. In 1941, his German ancestry led to his removal from work in Russia and deportation to Kazakhstan. Exiled in central Asia, he continued his research on birds in the region until 1954. In 1964 he published a volume on the birds of the Soviet Union along with Aleksandr Ivanovich Ivanov. He also worked on molluscs and on the evolution of birds. In 1978 his work on the comparative anatomy of the avian forelimb was published posthumously with a preface by Walter Bock.\n\n"}
{"id": "4194946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4194946", "title": "Calakmul Biosphere Reserve", "text": "Calakmul Biosphere Reserve\n\nThe Calakmul Biosphere Reserve (\"Reserva de la Biosfera de Calakmul\") is located at the base of the Yucatán Peninsula in Mexico, in Calakmul Municipality in the state of Campeche, bordering the Guatemalan department of El Petén to the south. It occupies and includes about 12% of the subperennial jungles of Mexico. The Reserve, which was established in 1989, is one of the largest protected areas in Mexico, covering more than 14% of the state. \nThe important pre-Columbian Maya civilization archaeological site of Calakmul, one of the largest-known Maya sites, is located in the Biosphere Reserve.\n\nThe Reserve and the contiguous forested areas of the Maya Biosphere Reserve \"(Reserva de la Biosfera Maya)\" in the Guatemalan department of El Petén form one of the largest and least disturbed tracts of rainforest in the Americas north of Colombia. The forest is classified as dry forest to the west and tall and medium-height subperennial rainforest to the east. Among the trees, there are ceibas, Honduras mahogany (\"Swietenia macrophylla\"), strangler figs (\"Ficus\"), chaká (\"Bursera simaruba\"), and chicle or chicozapote (\"Manilkara chicle\").\n\nThe biosphere is home to 86 species of mammals, 18 of which can be found in the Official Registry of Mexican Ecology, a resource that outlines flora and fauna that are in danger of extinction, rare, threatened or are under protection. The area is home to 5 of the 6 large cats that are native to Mexico. \nThis includes its small but healthy population of jaguars as well as jaguarundis, ocelots, pumas and margays. The fauna also includes Central American agoutis, Geoffroy's spider monkeys, Guatemalan black howlers, Baird's tapir, white-nosed coatis, ocellated turkeys, crested guans, toucans, and green parrots.\n\nThe reserve has been given a critically threatened designation, which means that prompt measures must be taken to continue to protect and conserve its biodiversity. These threats include: Population growth, subsistence hunting and poaching, tourist infrastructure, and the emergence of highways and roads.\n\nHuman population within the reserve has been rapidly increasing since the 1980s due to increased migration as well as high birthrates. This has put increasing strain on natural resources due to the locals' agricultural and ranching subsistence.\n\nAlthough 80% of the hunting in the reserve is done for personal consumption among the local people, this subsistence hunting has had an increasingly drastic impact on the wildlife populations. These animals are also being poached by military units that are in active duty within the area.\n\nThere has been an increasing amount of tourist activity, since the reserve was given UNESCO designation, which has created several problems. Although water is scarce in the region, the consumable water near villages or towns is reserved for tourists, creating a water shortage among the locals. There is growing awareness of a possible water crisis due to the inability to meet the needs of the locals and the tourism industry.\n\nDue to problems with the design of the reserve, two main roads have been built that cross through two of the core, important areas of the reserve. There have been proposals of a tourism destination called Maya World which would involve a highway connecting different areas of the biosphere reserve. Although the plans for the highway have been put aside for the time being, hotel construction continues in those areas.\n\nThe area was declared a biosphere reserve by Carlos Salinas de Gortari in 1989. The cited reasons for the designation were protection of biological diversity, as well as protection of the numerous ancient Mayan ruins that are within the limits of the reserve. Since then there has been disparity between the views and philosophies of the local people who live on the land and those government officials and urban environmentalists who wish to protect its resources .\n\nThe people who live on the land are migrants representing 23 of the 32 states of Mexico that were drawn to the land in the 1960s when the Mexican government put land distribution projects in place. Although their cultures may differ, they share the common identity of Campesinos (meaning people who farm) and of subsistence farmers who live off the land. As subsistence farmers they all share the common belief that the environment is a place to work, which contrasts with the agendas of environmentalists and government official who believe that an \"ideal environment is one devoid of human presence\". These outside parties have the \"do not touch\" mentality. Thus the Campesinos have created a united front in pushing for access to important resources that enable them to farm and provide for themselves.\n\nIn 1991 the Mexican president gave the Campesinos \"care for the reserve\" which provided funding to aid in the protection of the remaining forests while encouraging self-sufficiency in the local farming sector. This has been in line with the philosophy that biodiversity is \"diversity in use\".\n\nThese issues of debate has led to a resistance movement from the local farmers. Due to their beliefs surrounding the uses of the environment and work, many believe that those on the other side of the debate (government officials and urban environmentalists) wish to use the land for their own profitable means. Many farmers recognize the difference between symbolic and actual land ownership and feel as though the government is undermining their subsistence practices. Whereas the Campesinos practice subsistence farming and therefore do not receive a salary, there is a high vulnerability that they face from others implementing regulations.\n\n"}
{"id": "47387884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47387884", "title": "Challenger Colles", "text": "Challenger Colles\n\nChallenger Colles is a range of hills on Pluto in Sputnik Planitia. It was discovered by the \"New Horizons\" spacecraft in July 2015. It is named in honor of the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\", which was destroyed along with all seven astronauts aboard on January 28, 1986.\n"}
{"id": "2038670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2038670", "title": "Chart datum", "text": "Chart datum\n\nA chart datum is the level of water that charted depths displayed on a nautical chart are measured from. A chart datum is generally a tidal datum; that is, a datum derived from some phase of the tide. Common chart datums are \"lowest astronomical tide\" and \"mean lower low water\". In non-tidal areas, e.g., the Baltic sea, Mean Sea Level (MSL) is used.\n\nA chart datum is a vertical datum and must not be confused with the horizontal datum for the chart.\n\nLowest Astronomical Tide (LAT) is defined as the lowest tide level which can be predicted to occur under average meteorological conditions and under any combination of astronomical conditions.\nMany national charting agencies, including the United Kingdom Hydrographic Office and the Australian Hydrographic Service\n, use the LAT to define chart datums. \n\nOne advantage of using LAT for chart datums is that all predicted tidal heights must then be positive (or zero) avoiding possible ambiguity and the need to explicitly state sign. Calculation of the LAT only allows for gravitational effects so lower tides may occur in practice due to other factors (e.g. meteorological effects such as high pressure systems).\n\nThe United States' National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration uses mean lower low water (MLLW), which is the average height of the lowest tide recorded at a tide station each day during a 19-year recording period, known as the National Tidal Datum Epoch. MLLW is only a mean, so some tidal levels may be negative relative to MLLW; see also mean low water spring. The 19-year recording period is the nearest full year count to the 18.6-year cycle of the lunar node regression, which has an effect on tides.\n\nSimilarly, the mean higher high water (MHHW), is the average height of the highest tide recorded at a tide station each day during the recording period. It is used, among other things as a datum from which to measure the navigational clearance, or air draft, under bridges,\n\nCharted depths and drying heights on nautical charts are given relative to chart datum. Some height values on charts, such as vertical clearances under bridges or overhead wires, may be referenced to a different vertical datum, such as Mean High Water Springs or Highest Astronomical Tide (for \"HAT\" see \"tidal range\").\n\nTide tables give the height of the tide above a chart datum making it feasible to calculate the depth of water at a given point \"and\" at a given time by adding the charted depth to the height of the tide. One may calculate whether an area that dries is under water by subtracting the drying height from the [given] height calculated from the Tide table.\n\nUsing charts and tables not based on the same datum can result in incorrect calculation of water depths. Be wary. Always confirm compatibility.\n\nIn recent years national hydrographic agencies have spearheaded developments to establish Chart Datum with respect to the GRS 80 reference ellipsoid, thus enabling direct compatibility with GNSS positioning. Examples of this include VORF for the UKHO and Bathyelli for SHOM.\n"}
{"id": "52419008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52419008", "title": "Chryse and Argyre", "text": "Chryse and Argyre\n\nChryse and Argyre were a pair of legendary islands, located in the Indian Ocean and said to be made of gold (\"chrysos\" in Greek) and silver (\"argyros\").\n\nIn Book 6, chapter 23 of his \"Natural History\", concerning the regions near the Indus River, Pliny the Elder (23–79 CE) wrote that \"Beyond the mouth of the Indus are the islands of Chryse and Argyre, abounding in metals, I believe; but as to what some persons have stated, that their soil consists of gold and silver, I am not so willing to believe that.\"\n\nSome five or six centuries later, in section XIV.vi.11 of his encyclopedic \"Etymologies\", Isidore of Seville (c. 560–636) repeated much the same information: \"Chryse and Argyre are islands situated in the Indian Ocean, so rich in metal that many people maintain these islands have a surface of gold and silver; whence their names are derived.\" This was almost certainly taken—like much else in the \"Etymologies\", as Isidore freely admitted—directly from the \"Natural History\". Both of these Latin works, the \"Naturalis Historia\" and especially the \"Etymologiae\", were widely read in Europe throughout the Middle Ages, and this ensured the survival of the legend of the Gold and Silver Islands until the beginning of the Age of Discovery.\n\nAs European geographers gathered more reliable information about the Indian Ocean, the purported location of Chryse and Argyre shifted farther and farther east to the fringes of the known world. By the time Martin Behaim created his Erdapfel globe in 1492, the islands were though to be near Japan, possibly because Marco Polo had claimed Japan itself (which he called \"Cipangu\") to be rich in gold and silver; Behaim is known to have used both Pliny and Marco Polo as sources.\n\nThe discovery of the Americas changed everything. European explorers in search of fabled lands of gold now sailed west for El Dorado, instead of east to Cipangu. The works of Isidore of Seville fell out of fashion, and the islands of Chryse and Argyre slowly faded from the popular imagination.\n\nIn 1877, however, they were recalled to life by the astronomer Giovanni Schiaparelli, who used the planetary opposition of that year to begin mapping the planet Mars. As an expert in ancient astronomy and geography he was very familiar with classical legends and fabled lands, and used them to name the features he could see through the telescope. He assumed that dark areas might be low flat \"seas\", as they are on the Moon, while \"land\" would be lighter. In particular he noted several light patches that he took to be islands; he named the most striking circular one Hellas (for Greece), and two others Chryse and Argyre.\n\nIt was only with the observations made from Martian orbit by Mariner 9 in 1972 that it became clear that these light areas were not islands at all, but depressions carpeted with light windblown dust. Chryse is really a low flat plain, but the name has been kept, and it is now known as Chryse Planitia, \"Chryse Plain\". Argyre (like Hellas) is in fact a broad impact crater, and is now Argyre Planitia, \"Argyre Plain\", which in turn has given its name to one of the cartographic quadrangles of the Martian atlas.\n"}
{"id": "16207738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16207738", "title": "Costanera Sur Ecological Reserve", "text": "Costanera Sur Ecological Reserve\n\nBuenos Aires Ecological Reserve, \"Reserva Ecológica de Buenos Aires\", also known as Costanera Sur Ecological Reserve, \"Reserva Ecológica Costanera Sur\", is a tract of low land on the Río de la Plata riverbank located on the east side of the district of Puerto Madero in Buenos Aires CBD, Argentina.\n\nAfter opening in 1918, the Municipal Riverside resort was witness to the splendour and decadence of the “Costanera Sur” promenade. On foot, by car or tram, thousands of porteños came to this place in search of fresh air in summer afternoons, or to bathe in the river, smartly clad in their one piece bathing costume and carrying a towel. In accordance to the 1923 Regulations, men and women bathed in the river separated by the long pier.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s, the promenade became prosperous with the setting up of bars and coffee shops which added their architectural beauty to the Nereids Fountain built by sculptor Lola Mora, the art deco-styled statue in honor to the Plus Ultra airmen, the bronze lamposts and the Monument in honor to the King and Queen of Spain. The resort became one of the porteños favorite promenades not only during the day but also at night due to the music and variety shows performed in the coffee shops. The decline of the resort started at the end of the 1950s. Facilities began to deteriorate, many coffee shops were demolished and bathing started to be forbidden due to river contamination.\n\nIn the early 1970s, a new project was created in addition to those that had been developed in the northern city areas which consisted of reclaiming land from the river in front of the old “Costanera Sur” Riverside Resort. The land-filling started in 1978 using the Dutch “polder” system; embankments were built using debris from demolitions carried out to construct urban motorways. As the zone within the embankments filled with silt from the river, the water confined inside was drained, though this work was not fully completed.\n\nThe initial project, which included the creation of green areas and the construction of a “Government Building Area” was abandoned, although land-filling and debris dumping went on discontinuously until 1984, when works were finally ended. Since then, different plant communities developed spontaneously from seeds present in the silt, windborne or dispersed by the animals. By providing refuge and food, plants helped animal populations to settle in. From the beginning, the newly formed ponds and grasslands attracted the attention of nature lovers and bird watchers who thus started to visit them regularly. As the biological diversity increased, woods and a variety of animal species appeared. This place became a meeting point for joggers, cyclists, students, naturalists and even foreign bird watchers passing through Buenos Aires.\n\nThe official recognition occurred on June 5, 1986, when the Buenos Aires City Council voted unanimously the Ordinance 41,247 granting protection to the area, thus echoing the claims of the Non-Governmental Organizations.\n\nOn January 9, 2009, the Ecological Reserve caught fire. The large cloud of smoke persisted over Puerto Madero for nearly 24 hours, and was eventually put out by the fire department.\n\nBeing adjacent to the city, a visit to the Ecological Reserve is an escape from the hustle and bustle of the metropolis. A number of trails leading to the river are perfect for birdwatching, strolling, cycling and nature lovers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3527466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3527466", "title": "David N. Livingstone", "text": "David N. Livingstone\n\nDavid Noel Livingstone, (born 15 March 1953) is a Northern Ireland-born geographer, historian, and academic. He is Professor of Geography and Intellectual History at Queen's University Belfast.\n\nDavid Livingstone was born in Northern Ireland, and educated at Banbridge Academy and Queen's University Belfast (B.A., Ph.D.). Following graduation, he continued at Queen's as a Research Officer and Lecturer, becoming Reader and then full Professor. He has held visiting professorships at Calvin College, Michigan, University of British Columbia, University of Notre Dame, and Baylor University. He is married to Frances Livingstone, has two children (Justin and Emma), and lives in Belfast. He was appointed an OBE for his services to Geography and History.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6829906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6829906", "title": "Deliblatska Peščara", "text": "Deliblatska Peščara\n\nDeliblato Sands () is a large sand area covering around 300 km² of ground in Vojvodina province, Serbia. It is located in southern Banat, situated between the river Danube and the southwestern slopes of the Carpathian Mountains. The sands are named after the village of Deliblato, in the municipality of Kovin. Its main masses are elliptical shaped hills with steppe grassland plains and steppe forests. \n\nThe Deliblato Sands is the largest sandy terrain in Europe, once part of a vast prehistoric desert, having originated from the withdrawal of the Pannonian Sea. They are home to many endemic species of plants and animals which are rare or endangered in Europe and globally. Due to its forest and surroundings, it was declared a Special Nature Reserve. On a national level, it represents a natural asset of special importance falling under protection category I.\n\nThe Deliblato Sands is rich in floral diversity, it is home to 900 different species of plants which many are considered by international standards rare or endemic to the Pannonian Basin. Regions of similar terrain across Europe have been cultivated, forested or otherwise altered, while Deliblato Sands has largely remained untouched. Some of the endangered and endemic species of flora include the Banat peony, steppe peony, Pančić wormwood, bulrush and dwarf-steppe almond. Twenty different species of Orchidaceae grow in this area. Rare fauna include the mole rat, steppe polecat, desert ant and steppe gerbil. The main source of food for some endangered birds of prey, such as the saker falcon, eastern imperial eagle and lesser spotted eagle, are ground squirrels that live in large open grass fields; hence such areas are necessary for their survival. Other noted animals are the wolf, deer, roe deer and boar.\n\nThe Serbian cult movie \"Who's Singin' Over There?\" (\"Ko to tamo peva\", Serbian Cyrillic alphabet \"Ко то тамо пева\") was mainly shot at the Deliblato Sands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3330775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3330775", "title": "EarthEcho International", "text": "EarthEcho International\n\nEarthEcho International is an environmental nonprofit organization founded in honor of oceanographer Philippe Cousteau, by his children and widow. EarthEcho is based in Washington, D.C. The foundation was originally named the Philippe Cousteau Foundation, but changed its name after a dispute with the Cousteau Society.\n\nOne of EarthEcho's outreach activities is the \"EarthEcho Water Challenge,\" formerly called \"World Water Monitoring Day,\" an annual event promoting citizen monitoring of their local water resources.\n\n"}
{"id": "35742720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35742720", "title": "Earth Negotiations Bulletin", "text": "Earth Negotiations Bulletin\n\nThe \"Earth Negotiations Bulletin\" \"(ENB)\" is a periodic internet news publication covering negotiations, workshops and conferences on a variety of subjects in environmental policy and international law. It is published daily in print and online forms, and with email, Facebook and Twitter feeds, during conferences of the parties to multilateral environmental agreements; and is a publication of the Reporting Services division of the International Institute for Sustainable Development. The publication and division are based in New York City.\n\nDuring the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, a small group of environmental journalists published a daily bulletin describing the proceedings. The publication caught the attention of the International Institute for Sustainable Development, a sustainability think tank based in Winnipeg, Canada, which proposed that a team be assembled to provide ongoing coverage of follow-up meetings and processes launched in Rio.\n\nBulletins for each workshop or conference are written and edited by a small team of consultants selected from several dozen located around the world, drawn primarily from academia and international affairs. Many writers join the team while in graduate school and eventually move on to careers in international organizations. Conversely, retired career diplomats from the United States, Russia and China have also brought their experience to the team.\n\nThe \"ENB\" covers a range of topics in sustainability. Core coverage areas include:\n\n\nReporting teams are also sent to a variety of conferences on sustainability that fall outside the confines of the list above, under agreements with conference organizers. These conferences include regional negotiations, conferences dealing with sustainability in specific industries such as the International Hydropower Association World Congress on Sustainable Hydropower, and special-interest days within larger conferences, such as \"Business Day\" during UN Climate Change conferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "33065462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33065462", "title": "Elena Berezovich", "text": "Elena Berezovich\n\nElena Lvovna Berezovich (, born 1966) is a Russian linguist known for her work in onomastics, etymology, and ethnolinguistics. She is currently a professor at the Department of Russian Language and General Linguistics of the Ural Federal University (Yekaterinburg). Professor of the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS), corresponding member of the RAS (elected in 2016).\n\nElena Berezovich was born in Yekaterinburg in 1966. She graduated in 1988, from the Ural State University. In 1992 she defended her PhD thesis \"Semantic Microsystems in Russian Toponymy\". After defending her habilitation thesis (the Russian degree of Doktor nauk) \"Russian Toponymy from an Ethnolinguistic Perspective\" in 1999, she became professor of the Philological Department of the Ural State University (now Ural Federal University). Since 2006 Elena Berezovich has also been a research fellow of the Russian Language Institute in Moscow.\n\nHer main domains of research are onomastics, etymology, semantic reconstruction, dialectology and ethnolinguistics. Elena Berezovich is head of the Ural Toponymy Expedition, executive director of the \"Russian Onomasticon\" Project, member of the Ethnolinguistic commission of the International Committee of Slavists, editor-in-chief of the journal \"Questions of Onomastics\", founded by her university mentor Prof. Aleksandr Matveyev. She is also the editor of several onomastic dictionaries and the definitive \"Dictionary of Northern Russian Dialects\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19656540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19656540", "title": "Extreme point (disambiguation)", "text": "Extreme point (disambiguation)\n\nAn extreme point, in mathematics, is a point in a convex set which does not lie in any open line segment joining two points in the set.\n\nExtreme point or extremal point may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "995417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995417", "title": "Geodetic datum", "text": "Geodetic datum\n\nA geodetic datum or geodetic system is a coordinate system, and a set of reference points, used to locate places on the Earth (or similar objects). An approximate definition of sea level is the datum WGS 84, an ellipsoid, whereas a more accurate definition is Earth Gravitational Model 2008 (EGM2008), using at least 2,159 spherical harmonics. Other datums are defined for other areas or at other times; ED50 was defined in 1950 over Europe and differs from WGS 84 by a few hundred meters depending on where in Europe you look. \nMars has no oceans and so no sea level, but at least two martian datums have been used to locate places there.\n\nDatums are used in geodesy, navigation, and surveying by cartographers and satellite navigation systems to translate positions indicated on maps (paper or digital) to their real position on Earth. Each starts with an ellipsoid (stretched sphere), and then defines latitude, longitude and altitude coordinates. One or more locations on the Earth's surface are chosen as anchor \"base-points\".\n\nThe difference in co-ordinates between datums is commonly referred to as \"datum shift\". The datum shift between two particular datums can vary from one place to another within one country or region, and can be anything from zero to hundreds of meters (or several kilometers for some remote islands). The North Pole, South Pole and Equator will be in different positions on different datums, so True North will be slightly different. Different datums use different interpolations for the precise shape and size of the Earth (reference ellipsoids).\n\nBecause the Earth is an imperfect ellipsoid, localised datums can give a more accurate representation of the area of coverage than WGS 84. OSGB36, for example, is a better approximation to the geoid covering the British Isles than the global WGS 84 ellipsoid. However, as the benefits of a global system outweigh the greater accuracy, the global WGS 84 datum is becoming increasingly adopted.\n\nHorizontal datums are used for describing a point on the Earth's surface, in latitude and longitude or another coordinate system. Vertical datums measure elevations or depths.\n\nIn surveying and geodesy, a \"datum\" is a reference system or an approximation of the Earth's surface against which positional measurements are made for computing locations. Horizontal datums are used for describing a point on the Earth's surface, in latitude and longitude or another coordinate system. Vertical datums are used to measure elevations or underwater depths.\n\nThe horizontal datum is the model used to measure positions on the Earth. A specific point on the Earth can have substantially different coordinates, depending on the datum used to make the measurement. There are hundreds of local horizontal datums around the world, usually referenced to some convenient local reference point. Contemporary datums, based on increasingly accurate measurements of the shape of the Earth, are intended to cover larger areas. The WGS 84 datum, which is almost identical to the NAD83 datum used in North America and the ETRS89 datum used in Europe, is a common standard datum.\n\nFor example, in Sydney there is a 200 metres (700 feet) difference between GPS coordinates configured in GDA (based on global standard WGS 84) and AGD (used for most local maps), which is an unacceptably large error for some applications, such as surveying or site location for scuba diving.\n\nA vertical datum is used as a reference point for elevations of surfaces and features on the Earth including terrain, bathymetry, water levels, and man-made structures. Vertical datums are either: tidal, based on sea levels; gravimetric, based on a geoid; or geodetic, based on the same ellipsoid models of the Earth used for computing horizontal datums.\n\nIn common usage, elevations are often cited in height above sea level, although what “sea level” actually means is a more complex issue than might at first be thought: the height of the sea surface at any one place and time is a result of numerous effects, including waves, wind and currents, atmospheric pressure, tides, topography, and even differences in the strength of gravity due to the presence of mountains etc.\n\nFor the purpose of measuring the height of objects on land, the usual datum used is mean sea level (MSL). This is a tidal datum which is described as the arithmetic mean of the hourly water elevation taken over a specific 19 years cycle. This definition averages out tidal highs and lows (caused by the gravitational effects of the sun and the moon) and short term variations. It will not remove the effects of local gravity strength, and so the height of MSL, relative to a geodetic datum, will vary around the world, and even around one country. Countries tend to choose the mean sea level at one specific point to be used as the standard “sea level” for all mapping and surveying in that country. (For example, in Great Britain, the national vertical datum, Ordnance Datum Newlyn, is based on what was mean sea level at Newlyn in Cornwall between 1915 and 1921). However, zero elevation as defined by one country is not the same as zero elevation defined by another (because MSL is not the same everywhere), which is why locally defined vertical datums differ from one another.\n\nA different principle is used when choosing a datum for nautical charts. For safety reasons, a mariner must be able to know the minimum depth of water that could occur at any point. For this reason, depths and tides on a nautical chart are measured relative to chart datum, which is defined to be a level below which tide rarely falls. Exactly how this is chosen depends on the tidal regime in the area being charted and on the policy of the hydrographic office producing the chart in question; a typical definition is Lowest Astronomical Tide (the lowest tide predictable from the effects of gravity), or Mean Lower Low Water (the average lowest tide of each day), although MSL is sometimes used in waters with very low tidal ranges.\n\nConversely, if a ship is to safely pass under a low bridge or overhead power cable, the mariner must know the minimum clearance between the masthead and the obstruction, which will occur at high tide. Consequently, bridge clearances etc. are given relative to a datum based on high tide, such as Highest Astronomical Tide or Mean High Water Springs.\n\nSea level does not remain constant throughout geological time, and so tidal datums are less useful when studying very long-term processes. In some situations sea level does not apply at all — for instance for mapping Mars' surface — forcing the use of a different \"zero elevation\", such as mean radius.\n\nA geodetic vertical datum takes some specific zero point, and computes elevations based on the geodetic model being used, without further reference to sea levels. Usually, the starting reference point is a tide gauge, so at that point the geodetic and tidal datums might match, but due to sea level variations, the two scales may not match elsewhere. An example of a gravity-based geodetic datum is NAVD88, used in North America, which is referenced to a point in Quebec, Canada. Ellipsoid-based datums such as WGS 84, GRS80 or NAD83 use a theoretical surface that may differ significantly from the geoid.\n\nIn geodetic coordinates, the Earth's surface is approximated by an ellipsoid, and locations near the surface are described in terms of latitude (formula_1), longitude (formula_2), and height (formula_3).\n\nGeodetic latitude (formula_1), resp. altitude, is different from geocentric latitude (formula_5), resp. altitude. Geodetic latitude is determined by the angle between the equatorial plane and normal to the ellipsoid, whereas geocentric latitude is determined by the angle between the equatorial plane and line joining the point to the centre of the ellipsoid (see figure). Unless otherwise specified, latitude is geodetic latitude.\n\nThe ellipsoid is completely parameterised by the semi-major axis formula_6 and the flattening formula_7.\n\nFrom formula_6 and formula_7 it is possible to derive the semi-minor axis formula_10, first eccentricity formula_11 and second eccentricity formula_12 of the ellipsoid\n\nAGD66 and AGD84 both use the parameters defined by Australian National Spheroid (see below)\n\nGDA94 uses the parameters defined by GRS80 (see below)\n\nSee GDA Technical Manual document for more details; the value given above for the flattening is not exact.\n\nThe Global Positioning System (GPS) uses the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS 84) to determine the location of a point near the surface of the Earth.\n\nSee The official World Geodetic System 1984 document for more details.\n\nA more comprehensive list of geodetic systems can be found here\n\nDatum conversion is the process of converting the coordinates of a point from one datum system to another. Datum conversion may frequently be accompanied by a change of grid projection.\n\nA reference datum is a known and constant surface which is used to describe the location of unknown points on the Earth. Since reference datums can have different radii and different center points, a specific point on the Earth can have substantially different coordinates depending on the datum used to make the measurement. There are hundreds of locally developed reference datums around the world, usually referenced to some convenient local reference point. Contemporary datums, based on increasingly accurate measurements of the shape of the Earth, are intended to cover larger areas. The most common reference Datums in use in North America are NAD27, NAD83, and WGS 84.\n\nThe North American Datum of 1927 (NAD 27) is \"the horizontal control datum for the United States that was defined by a location and azimuth on the Clarke spheroid of 1866, with origin at (the survey station) Meades Ranch (Kansas).\" ... The geoidal height at Meades Ranch was assumed to be zero, as sufficient gravity data was not available, and this was needed to relate surface measurements to the datum. \"Geodetic positions on the North American Datum of 1927 were derived from the (coordinates of and an azimuth at Meades Ranch) through a readjustment of the triangulation of the entire network in which Laplace azimuths were introduced, and the Bowie method was used.\" (http://www.ngs.noaa.gov/faq.shtml#WhatDatum ) NAD27 is a local referencing system covering North America.\n\nThe North American Datum of 1983 (NAD 83) is \"The horizontal control datum for the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America, based on a geocentric origin and the Geodetic Reference System 1980 (GRS80). \"This datum, designated as NAD 83 ...is based on the adjustment of 250,000 points including 600 satellite Doppler stations which constrain the system to a geocentric origin.\" NAD83 may be considered a local referencing system.\n\nWGS 84 is the World Geodetic System of 1984. It is the reference frame used by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and is defined by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) (formerly the Defense Mapping Agency, then the National Imagery and Mapping Agency). WGS 84 is used by DoD for all its mapping, charting, surveying, and navigation needs, including its GPS \"broadcast\" and \"precise\" orbits. WGS 84 was defined in January 1987 using Doppler satellite surveying techniques. It was used as the reference frame for broadcast GPS Ephemerides (orbits) beginning January 23, 1987. At 0000 GMT January 2, 1994, WGS 84 was upgraded in accuracy using GPS measurements. The formal name then became WGS 84 (G730), since the upgrade date coincided with the start of GPS Week 730. It became the reference frame for broadcast orbits on June 28, 1994. At 0000 GMT September 30, 1996 (the start of GPS Week 873), WGS 84 was redefined again and was more closely aligned with International Earth Rotation Service (IERS) frame ITRF 94. It was then formally called WGS 84 (G873). WGS 84 (G873) was adopted as the reference frame for broadcast orbits on January 29, 1997. Another update brought it to WGS84(G1674).\n\nThe WGS 84 datum, within two meters of the NAD83 datum used in North America, is the only world referencing system in place today. WGS 84 is the default standard datum for coordinates stored in recreational and commercial GPS units.\n\nUsers of GPS are cautioned that they must always check the datum of the maps they are using. To correctly enter, display, and to store map related map coordinates, the datum of the map must be entered into the GPS map datum field.\n\nExamples of map datums are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16686", "title": "Geography of Kuwait", "text": "Geography of Kuwait\n\nKuwait is situated in Southwest Asia, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iraq and Saudi Arabia. A prosperous trade center for many centuries, Kuwait came to greater international prominence in the post-World War II era largely because of its strategic location at the head of the Persian Gulf and oil revenues.\n\nSince 2006, Kuwait has been partially governed by Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah and his designated successor, Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, the Prime Minister and Crown Prince. In the postwar period, these men have supported the strengthening of democratic participation in decision making, as provided for in the Constitution.\n\nKuwait is located at the far northwestern corner of the Persian Gulf. Kuwait is 17,820 square kilometres in size. At its most distant points, it is about 200 kilometres north to south, and 170 kilometres east to west. Kuwait is mostly desert.\n\nAs previously mentioned, Kuwait borders the Persian Gulf with 195 kilometers of coast. Within its territory are nine islands, two of which, Bubiyan (the largest) and Warbah, are largely uninhabited but strategically important. Due to the Iraq-Kuwait war (see Invasion of Kuwait), many people left their homes on islands, like Faylakah but ((Faylakah)) Is now old by China for protection reasons, and have since not returned to their homes.\n\nKuwait's most prominent geographic feature is Kuwait Bay (Jun al Kuwayt), which indents the shoreline for about forty kilometers, providing natural protection for the port of Kuwait, and accounts for nearly one half the country's shoreline.\n\nTo the south and west, Kuwait shares a long border of 250 kilometers with Saudi Arabia. The boundary between Kuwait and Saudi Arabia was set by the Treaty of Al Uqayr in 1922, which also established the Saudi–Kuwaiti neutral zone of 5,700 square kilometers between the two nations. In 1966, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia agreed to divide the neutral zone; the partitioning agreement making each country responsible for administration in its portion was signed in December 1969. The resources in the area, now known as the Divided Zone, are not affected by the agreement. The oil from onshore and offshore fields continues to be shared equally between the two countries.\n\nThe third side of the triangle-shaped nation is the 240 kilometers of historically contested border between Kuwait and Iraq. Although the Iraqi government, which had first asserted a claim to rule Kuwait in 1938, recognized the borders with Kuwait in 1963 (based on agreements made earlier in the century), it continued to press Kuwait for control over Bubiyan and Warbah islands through the 1960s and 1970s. \n\nIn August 1990, Iraq invaded Kuwait and, shortly thereafter, formally incorporated the entire country into Iraq. Under United Nations (UN) Security Council Resolution 687, after the restoration of Kuwaiti sovereignty in 1991, a UN commission undertook formal demarcation of the borders on the basis of those agreed to in 1963. The boundary was demarcated in 1992, but Iraq refuses to accept the commission's findings.\n\nRecent events from 2008 to the present day have seen the positive advancement of maritime border relations with Iraq with the development of the Khawr Abd Allah (KAA) Protocols. The non-legally binding KAA Protocols were developed and mediated between the heads of the Kuwaiti and Iraqi navies by Major David Hammond Royal Marines, the British naval lawyer and legal advisor to Combined Task Force 158. This included the production of the KAA Interoperability Admiralty Chart by Major Hammond and which was subsequently distributed to both countries, having been produced by the United Kingdom Hydrographic Office.\n\nIn November 2008, the KAA Protocols were historically signed at Kuwait Naval Base having been verbally agreed on board in May 2008. The signing meeting saw the first formal meeting of the heads of respective navies since before the 1991 Gulf War. Subsequently, the success of the non-legally binding protocols was reported to the US Congress on January 9, 2009 in the Measuring Stability and Security in Iraq Report. However big however small let me be part of it all\n\nKuwait has an arid climate. Kuwait has a huge temperature difference between winter and summer. Rainfall in the nation varies from a year. Actual rainfall has ranged from a year to as much as . In summer, average daily high temperatures range from ; the highest ever temperature recorded in Kuwait was at Mitribah on 21 July, 2016 which is the highest recorded temperature in Asia and also the third highest in the world. Mitribah temperatures until mid 2010 were affected by overexposure conditions and the station was later fixed.\n\nThe summers are quite long, punctuated mainly by dramatic dust storms in March and April when northwesterly winds cover the cities in sand. In the late summer, which is more humid. By the end of October all of the hot weather is over, and colder winter weather sets in, dropping temperatures to as low as at night. On the other hand, daytime temperature is between . In this time, there are brief but strong thunderstorms. Frost occurs when the temperatures drop below . \n\nKuwait's winter is colder than in other Persian Gulf countries, such as Bahrain, Qatar or United Arab Emirates. Kuwait experiences colder weather because it is situated farther north, and because of cold winds blowing from upper Iraq and Iran. In Kuwait, precipitation usually occurs from October until April (mostly in November).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5745883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5745883", "title": "Henricus Martellus Germanus", "text": "Henricus Martellus Germanus\n\nHenricus Martellus Germanus is the latinized name of Heinrich Hammer (), a geographer and cartographer from Nuremberg who lived and worked in Florence from 1480 to 1496.\n\nBetween around 1489 and 1491, he produced at least one world map which is remarkably similar to the terrestrial globe produced by Martin Behaim around 1492, the \"Erdapfel\". Both show novel adaptions of the existing Ptolemaic model, opening a passage south of Africa and creating an enormous new peninsula east of the Golden Chersonese (Malaysia). Both possibly derive from maps created around 1485 in Lisbon by Bartolomeo Columbus.\n\nThe only extant manuscript world map, measuring in size, was rediscovered in the 1960s and donated to Yale's Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library. An inscription in the lower left corner states: \"Although Strabo and Ptolemy and the majority of the ancients were most assiduous in describing the world we, however, bring together in this picture and carefully show in their true places the new knowledge that escaped their diligence and remained unknown to them\".\n\nMartellus’ map served as an inspiration for the Waldseemüller map of 1507. The overall layout was similar, and Martin Waldseemüller used the same projection as Martellus, the pseudo-cordiform projection. Both cartographers added decorative wind-heads in the borders of their maps, and both also took advantage of the extra space in the lower corners of the maps created by the swooping lines of the projection to add text blocks in those corners. The shape of northern Africa is the same on both maps, that is, it is Ptolemaic with a sharp northwestern corner. The shape of eastern Asia is similar on the two maps, with a huge peninsula jutting southwestward into the Indian Ocean, and Japan is in precisely the same position on the two maps, at the eastern edge.\n\nMartellus also produced an \"Insularium Illustratum\" (\"Illustrated Book of Islands\") of which four manuscripts are extant, plus one draft in Biblioteca Laurentiana. It contains an illustrated description of islands of the Aegean Sea, mostly copied from a previous work by Cristoforo Buondelmonti, plus maps from other islands, several regional maps and a world map.\n\nHe has been identified with an Arrigho di Federigho who authored the first translation into German of Bocaccio's \"Decamerone\". According to this theory, the surname Martellus would come from the Martelli family, to which Henricus / Arrigho was linked.\n\n"}
{"id": "1009248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1009248", "title": "ISO 3166-2:BO", "text": "ISO 3166-2:BO\n\nISO 3166-2:BO is the entry for the Plurinational State of Bolivia in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Bolivia, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 9 departments.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of the Plurinational State of Bolivia. The second part is a letter, currently used in vehicle registration plates.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nSubdivision names are sorted in traditional Spanish alphabetical order: a-c, ch, d-l, ll, m-n, ñ, o-z.\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998. ISO stopped issuing newsletters in 2013.\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "521387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521387", "title": "ISO 3166-2:GN", "text": "ISO 3166-2:GN\n\nISO 3166-2:GN is the entry for Guinea in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Guinea, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for two levels of subdivisions:\n\nThe governorate Conakry is the capital of the country and has special status equal to the administrative regions.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Guinea. The second part is either of the following:\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453662", "title": "ISO 3166-2:LU", "text": "ISO 3166-2:LU\n\nISO 3166-2:LU is the entry for Luxembourg in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Luxembourg, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 12 cantons.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Luxembourg. The second part is a letter.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nISO 639-1 codes are used to represent subdivision names in the following administrative languages:\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nPreviously, prior to 2015, ISO 3166-2 codes were defined for 3 districts.\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10984953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10984953", "title": "Index of Macau-related articles", "text": "Index of Macau-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Macau include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1254668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1254668", "title": "Jan Kip", "text": "Jan Kip\n\nJohannes \"Jan\" Kip (1652/53, Amsterdam – 1722, Westminster) was a Dutch draftsman, engraver and print dealer. Together with Leonard Knyff, he made a speciality of engraved views of English country houses.\n\nKip was a pupil of Bastiaen Stopendaal (1636–1707), from 1668 to 1670, before setting up on his own; his earliest dated engravings are from 1672. In April 1680, at the age of 27, he married Elisabeth Breda in Amsterdam. After producing works for the court of William of Orange in Amsterdam, Kip followed William and Mary to London and settled in St. John Street in Farringdon, where he conducted a thriving printselling business. He also worked for various London publishers producing engravings after such artists as Francis Barlow (c. 1626–1704) and Caius Gabriel Cibber (1630–1700), largely for book illustrations. He made several engraved plates for Awnsham & John Churchill's \"A Collection of Voyages & Travels\" (first published 1704). He signed the African scenes in volume V of the 1732 edition as \"J. Kip\".\n\nHis most important works were the large fold-out folio illustrations for \"Britannia Illustrata\", 1708; for the 65 folio plates he engraved for the antiquary Sir Robert Atkyns, \"The Ancient and Present State of Glostershire,\" 1712 (1st edition); and for \"Le Nouveau Théâtre de la Grande Bretagne ou description exacte des palais de la Reine, et des Maisons les plus considerables des des Seigneurs & des Gentilshommes de la Grande Bretagne,\" 1715, an extended reprint in collaboration with other artists.\n\nThe linked careers of Jan Kip and Leonard Knyff made a specialty of engraved views of English country houses, represented in detail from the bird's-eye view, a pictorial convention for topography. Their major work was \"Britannia Illustrata: Or Views of Several of the Queens Palaces, as Also of the Principal seats of the Nobility and Gentry of Great Britain, Curiously Engraven on 80 Copper Plates,\" London (1707, published in the winter of 1708–9). The volume is among the most important English topographical publications of the 18th century. Architecture is rendered with care, and the settings of parterres and radiating avenues driven through woods or planted across fields, garden paths, gates and toolsheds are illustrated in detail. The images are staffed with figures and horses, coaches pulling into forecourts, water-craft on rivers, in line with the traditions of the Low Countries. Some of the plates are in the Siennese \"map perspective\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7184587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7184587", "title": "José Antonio de Alzate y Ramírez", "text": "José Antonio de Alzate y Ramírez\n\nJosé Antonio de Alzate y Ramírez (20 November 1737 – 2 February 1799) was a priest in New Spain, scientist, historian, cartographer, and journalist.\n\nHe was born in Ozumba in 1737, the child of Felipe de Alzate and María Josefa Ramírez, a descendant of Juana Inés de la Cruz. He studied in the Colegio de San Ildefonso in Mexico City, graduating as a bachelor in theology in 1756. A priest from the age of 20, he was also a corresponding member of the French and Spanish academies of science, and one of the earliest trustworthy observers of Mexican meteorology. He attained a high reputation as a zoologist and botanist, and his researches led the way for modern exploration of Mexican antiquities. He published the \"Gaceta de Literatura\", and an essay titled \"La limite des niéges perpetuelles en Volcan Popocatepetl.\"\n\nThe natural sciences, physics, astronomy and mathematics were for him subjects that deserved great attention. He conducted several scientific experiments, and wrote numerous articles that were published in science journals.\n\nInaugurated in 1768, his \"Diario literario de Méjico\" [Literary Newspaper of Mexico] was suspended after only three months. He later created, in 1788, the \"Gaceta de Literatura\" [Newspaper of Literature], that was published until 1795 (115 issues). This periodical inspired many of his countrymen to follow his example. His account of Xochicalco was the first published description of these interesting ruins.\n\nMore than thirty treatises on various subjects are due to his pen. Among other works, he wrote \"Observaciones meteorológicas\" [Weather observations] (1769), \"Observación del paso de Venus por el disco del Sol\" [Observation of the passage of Venus by the disc of the Sun] (1770), \"Modelo y descripción de los hornos de Almadén\" [Model and description of the furnaces of Almadén], notes, additions and maps for the \"Historia Antigua de México\" [Ancient History of Mexico], written by Francisco Javier Clavijero, and a \"Mapa de la América del Norte\" [Map of North America].\n\nAstronomy, physics, meteorology, antiquities, and metallurgy, were among the topics on which he wrote, but he also devoted serious attention to certain industries. Thus the growing of silk in Mexico was the subject of several of his papers. He wrote a dissertation on the use of ammonia in combating mephitic gases in abandoned mines, and also prepared maps of New Spain (Mexico). In 1772, he published work that showed that the well-known psychedelic effects of pipiltzintzintli were due to natural causes and not the work of the devil (\"Memoria del uso que hacen los indios de los pipiltzintzintlis\"; México, D.F.: Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México). He was frequently opposed, even reviled, at home, but the French Academy of Sciences made him a corresponding member, and the viceroys of Mexico and the archbishops entrusted him with sundry scientific missions.\n\nHe was a member of the Royal Botanical Garden of Madrid. He died in Mexico City in 1799.\n\nIn his honor, the Sociedad Científica Antonio Alzate [Antonio Alzate Scientific Society] was created in 1884. In 1935, this society became the National Academy of Sciences. A dam and reservoir are named in his honor in the State of Mexico, north of Toluca. Plant genus Alzatea is named after him \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14715875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14715875", "title": "List of Canadian supercentenarians", "text": "List of Canadian supercentenarians\n\nThis article lists Canadian supercentenarians (people from Canada who have attained the age of at least 110 years). The oldest verified Canadian person ever was Marie-Louise Meilleur, who died in 1998 aged 117 years, 230 days. As of , the oldest living person in Canada is Ellen Gibb, born 26 April 1905, aged .\n\n<br>\n\nSum Ying Fung (née Eng, , 27 January 1899 – 6 December 2011), was an Asian Canadian supercentenarian who was the oldest person in Canada in 2011. \n\nSum Ying Eng was born in Wing On Village, Yanping, China in 1899. In 1926, she married Chong Lim Fung, who had been working in Canada since 1911. Chong Lim would travel to visit Sum Ying regularly in the ensuing years and they had three children. However, the Chinese Exclusion Act prevented her from joining her husband in Canada. In 1954, she emigrated to Canada under the sponsorship of her husband. The couple settled in Chinatown, Vancouver that year. The Fung family moved to East Vancouver upon Chong Lim's death in 1967.\n\nIn 1989, she developed a brain tumour, underwent surgery, and survived. She visited China later that year and was in Beijing during the military crackdown of Tiananmen Square protests. She and her family fled Beijing among a group of German tourists.\n\nIn January 2011, Sum Ying Fung became the oldest person in Canada, after the death of the previous title-holder Elizabeth Buhler. The Queen congratulated Fung in a letter on her 112th birthday on 27 January 2011 and the Mayor of Vancouver declared that day \"Fung Eng Sum Ying Day\".\n\nFung died of natural causes at the claimed age of 112 at Burnaby General Hospital in British Columbia on 6 December 2011. At the time of her death she was survived by two of her three children, 14 grandchildren, 25 great-grand children, and 2 great-great-grand children.\n\nMarie-Louise Fébronie Meilleur (née Chassé; August 29, 1880 – April 16, 1998) was a French Canadian supercentenarian. Meilleur is the oldest validated Canadian ever and, upon the death of longevity world record holder Jeanne Calment in 1997, became the world's oldest recognized living person.\n\nShe was born in Kamouraska, Quebec, where she married her first husband, Étienne Leclerc, at age 20 in 1900 who was a fisherman. Étienne Leclerc died of pneumonia on February 24, 1911, aged 39. Her father died on June 25, 1911, aged 61. Her mother died February 23, 1912, aged 59. Meilleur left two of her four surviving children in 1913 and moved to the Ontario border to help support her sister, whose children were sick with diphtheria. She returned to the Quebec region in 1939, She had six children by her second husband, Hector Meilleur, whom she married in 1915. All of her children moved out in 1942.\n\nHer second husband Hector meilleur died in 1972, of diabetes at age 93. From there she lived first with a daughter and then in a nursing home in Corbeil. Out of her twelve children, only four survived her. She had 85 grandchildren, 80 great-grandchildren, 57 great-great-grandchildren, and four great-great-great-grandchildren. Meilleur smoked tobacco into her nineties. She quit smoking aged 102 in 1982 when she caught a cold. In 1986 when asked the secret to long life she said hard work. Hard work never kills a person. She became the oldest living person in August 4, 1997, after the death of 122-year-old Frenchwoman Jeanne Calment. Around her 117th birthday she was too weak to talk and she could only hear if someone shouted directly into her right ear.\n\nMeilleur died of a blood clot at age 117 in April 1998 in Corbeil, Ontario. One of her sons was also living in the same nursing home, and her oldest living daughter, Gabrielle Vaughan, was ninety years old. Gabrielle died in 2004 aged 96. After Meilleur's death, American woman Sarah Knauss became the world's oldest person.\n"}
{"id": "7281992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7281992", "title": "List of Chile-related topics", "text": "List of Chile-related topics\n\nThe following is an outline of topics related to the Republic of Chile.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also: Chilean biochemists\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31215006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31215006", "title": "List of companies of the Isle of Man", "text": "List of companies of the Isle of Man\n\nThe Isle of Man is a self-governing crown dependency in the Irish Sea between England and Northern Ireland. The head of state is Queen Elizabeth II, who holds the title of Lord of Mann. The Lord of Mann is represented by a lieutenant governor. Foreign relations and defence are the responsibility of the British Government.\n\nThe Isle of Man is a low-tax economy with no capital gains tax, wealth tax, stamp duty, or inheritance tax and a top rate of income tax of 20%. The rate of corporation tax is 0% for almost all types of income; the only exceptions are that the profits of banks are taxed at 10%, as is rental (or other) income from land and buildings situated on the Isle of Man.\n\nOffshore banking, manufacturing, and tourism form key sectors of the economy. Agriculture and fishing, once the mainstays of the economy, now make declining contributions to the island's Gross Domestic Product (GDP).\n\nThis list includes notable companies with primary headquarters located in the country. The industry and sector follow the Industry Classification Benchmark taxonomy. Organizations which have ceased operations are included and noted as defunct.\n"}
{"id": "34455955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34455955", "title": "List of festivals in Bangladesh", "text": "List of festivals in Bangladesh\n\nThis is a list of festivals in Bangladesh.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51626082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51626082", "title": "List of lighthouses in Eritrea", "text": "List of lighthouses in Eritrea\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Eritrea. \n\n"}
{"id": "14727253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14727253", "title": "List of television stations in Guam", "text": "List of television stations in Guam\n\nThis is a list of broadcast television stations serving cities in the U.S. territory of Guam.\n\n\"VC\" refers to the station's PSIP virtual channel. \"RF\" refers to the station's physical RF channel.\n"}
{"id": "53223154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53223154", "title": "Madalena, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Madalena, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nMadalena is a small town on São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 221 (2012 census). It lies 1 km northeast of Santa Margarida, 2.5 km south of Boa Entrada and 7 km west of the capital São Tomé.\n\n"}
{"id": "30321204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30321204", "title": "Martuni District (NKAO)", "text": "Martuni District (NKAO)\n\nMartuni District was one of the five (raions) or administrative districts of the former Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast (NKAO) of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic (AzSSR). In 1991 the parliament of the newly established Republic of Azerbaijan abolished passed the Law on Abolishment of Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast which had the effect of also abolishing Martuni District. The district's territory was incorporated into the neighbouring Azerbaijani Khojavend District.\nThis abolition was not recognised by the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. Today, the majority of Martuni District is under the \"de facto\" control of the Artsakh Defense Army. The Republic of Artsakh has renamed the district as Martuni Province and has added some territory land captured during the Nagorno-Karabakh War to the province. The eastern part of Martuni District remains in Azerbaijani control.\n\n"}
{"id": "15755009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15755009", "title": "Member states of the Commonwealth of Nations", "text": "Member states of the Commonwealth of Nations\n\nThe Commonwealth of Nations is a voluntary association of 53 sovereign states. Nearly all of them are former British colonies or dependencies of those colonies.\n\nNo one government in the Commonwealth exercises power over the others, as is the case in a political union. Rather, the Commonwealth is an international organisation in which countries with diverse social, political, and economic backgrounds are regarded as equal in status, and cooperate within a framework of common values and goals, as outlined in the Singapore Declaration issued in 1971. Such common values and goals include the promotion of democracy, human rights, good governance, the rule of law, individual liberty, egalitarianism, free trade, multilateralism, and world peace, which are promoted through multilateral projects and meetings, such as the Commonwealth Games, held once every four years.\n\nThe symbol of this free association is Queen Elizabeth II, who serves as the Head of the Commonwealth. This position, however, does not imbue her with any political or executive power over any Commonwealth member states; the position is purely symbolic, and it is the Commonwealth Secretary-General who is the chief executive of the Commonwealth.\n\nThe Commonwealth was first officially formed in 1931 when the Statute of Westminster gave legal recognition to the sovereignty of dominions. Known as the \"British Commonwealth\", the original members were the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Irish Free State, and Newfoundland, although Australia and New Zealand did not adopt the statute until 1942 and 1947 respectively. In 1949, the London Declaration was signed and marked the birth of the modern Commonwealth and the adoption of its present name. The newest member is Rwanda, which joined on 29 November 2009. The most recent departure was the Maldives, which severed its connection with the Commonwealth on 13 October 2016.\n\nAs of April 2017, of the states that are members of the Commonwealth of Nations, three are in Europe, twelve in North America and the Caribbean, one in South America, nineteen in Africa, seven in Asia, and eleven in Oceania. There are seven former members, four of which no longer exist as independent entities (but form part of current member states). The members have a combined population of 2.4 billion, almost a third of the world population, of whom 1.21 billion live in India, and 95% live in Asia and Africa combined.\n\nCurrently sixteen of the member states are Commonwealth realms, with the Head of the Commonwealth as their head of state. Five others are monarchies with their own individual monarchs (Brunei, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malaysia, Tonga) and the rest are republics. Republic of Ireland (from 1949 according to the Commonwealth; 1936 according to Irish government), Zimbabwe (2003), and Maldives (2016) are former members of the Commonwealth. South Africa, Pakistan and The Gambia left and later rejoined the Commonwealth.\nAll dates below are provided by the Commonwealth of Nations Secretariat members list, and population figures are as of 1 January 2018.\nA. Unless otherwise noted, independence was gained from the United Kingdom on the date (shown in column 2) of joining the Commonwealth.\nB. Not a member of the Commonwealth Foundation.\nC. Though Pakistan celebrates 14 August 1947 as its independence day, independence was officially granted at midnight, 15 August 1947. Therefore, its date of joining the Commonwealth would be 15 August 1947.\nD. Commonwealth realms, recognising Queen Elizabeth II as their head of state since the day of their independence, distinctly from her being the sovereign of the United Kingdom.\nE. Geopolitically part of Europe, but geographically part of Asia.\n\nF. The population figure is based on 2014 estimates.\n\nOther states which have expressed an interest in joining the Commonwealth over the years or states which may be eligible to join the Commonwealth include Algeria, Bahrain, Cambodia, Egypt, Eritrea, Israel, Libya, Madagascar, Palestine, United States and Yemen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31969", "title": "Member states of the United Nations", "text": "Member states of the United Nations\n\nThe United Nations member states are the sovereign states that are members of the United Nations (UN) and have equal representation in the UN General Assembly. The UN is the world's largest intergovernmental organization.\nThe criteria for admission of new members to the UN are set out in Chapter II, Article 4 of the UN Charter:\n\n\nA recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative votes from at least nine of the council's fifteen members, with none of the five permanent members using their veto power. The Security Council's recommendation must then be approved in the General Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote.\n\nIn principle, only sovereign states can become UN members, and currently all UN members are sovereign states. Although five members were not sovereign when they joined the UN, all subsequently became fully independent between 1946 and 1991. Because a state can only be admitted to membership in the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a number of states that are considered sovereign according to the Montevideo Convention are not members of the UN. This is because the UN does not consider them to possess sovereignty, mainly due to the lack of international recognition or due to opposition from one of the permanent members.\n\nIn addition to the member states, the UN also invites non-member states to become observers at the UN General Assembly (currently two: the Holy See and Palestine), allowing them to participate and speak in General Assembly meetings, but not vote. Observers are generally intergovernmental organizations and international organizations and entities whose statehood or sovereignty is not precisely defined.\n\nThe UN officially came into existence on 24 October 1945, after ratification of the United Nations Charter by the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council (the Republic of China, France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States) and a majority of the other signatories. A total of 51 original members (or founding members) joined that year; 50 of them signed the Charter at the United Nations Conference on International Organization in San Francisco on 26 June 1945, while Poland, which was not represented at the conference, signed it on 15 October 1945.\n\nThe original members of the United Nations were: France, the Republic of China, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, the United States, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Byelorussia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Syria, Turkey, Ukraine, Uruguay, Venezuela and Yugoslavia.\n\nAmong the original members, 49 are either still UN members or had their memberships in the UN continued by a successor state \"(see table below)\"; for example, the membership of the Soviet Union was continued by the Russian Federation after its dissolution \"(see the section Former members: Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)\". The other two original members, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia (i.e., the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia), had been dissolved and their memberships in the UN not continued from 1992 by any one successor state \"(see the sections Former members: Czechoslovakia and Former members: Yugoslavia)\".\n\nAt the time of UN's founding, the seat of China in the UN was held by the Republic of China, but as a result of United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2758 in 1971, it is now held by the People's Republic of China \"(see the section Former members: Republic of China (Taiwan))\".\n\nA number of the original members were not sovereign when they joined the UN, and only gained full independence later:\n\nThe current members and their dates of admission are listed below with their official designations used by the United Nations.\n\nThe alphabetical order by the member states' official designations is used to determine the seating arrangement of the General Assembly sessions, where a draw is held each year to select a member state as the starting point. Several members use their full official names in their official designations and thus are sorted out of order from their common names: the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (a provisional reference used for all purposes within the UN, and listed under T), and the United Republic of Tanzania.\n\n\"The member states can be sorted by their official designations and dates of admission by clicking on the buttons in the header of the columns. See related sections on former members by clicking on the links in the column See also.\"\n\nOriginal members are listed with blue background.\n\nThe Republic of China (ROC) joined the UN as an original member on 24 October 1945, and as set out by the United Nations Charter, Chapter V, Article 23, became one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. In 1949, as a result of the Chinese Civil War, the Kuomintang-led ROC government lost effective control of mainland China and relocated to the island of Taiwan, and the Communist Party-led government of the People's Republic of China (PRC), declared on 1 October 1949, took control of mainland China. The UN was notified on 18 November 1949 of the formation of the Central People's Government of the People's Republic of China; however, the Government of the Republic of China continued to represent China at the UN, despite the small size of the ROC's jurisdiction of Taiwan and a number of smaller islands compared to the PRC's jurisdiction of mainland China. As both governments claimed to be the sole legitimate representative of China, proposals to effect a change in the representation of China in the UN were discussed but rejected for the next two decades, as the ROC was still recognized as the sole legitimate representative of China by a majority of UN members. Both sides rejected compromise proposals to allow both states to participate in the UN, based on the One-China policy.\n\nBy the 1970s, a shift had occurred in international diplomatic circles and the PRC had gained the upper hand in international diplomatic relations and recognition count. On 25 October 1971, the 21st time the United Nations General Assembly debated on the PRC's admission into the UN, United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2758 was adopted, by which it recognized that \"the representatives of the Government of the People's Republic of China are the only lawful representatives of China to the United Nations and that the People's Republic of China is one of the five permanent members of the Security Council,\" and decided \"to restore all its rights to the People's Republic of China and to recognize the representatives of its Government as the only legitimate representatives of China to the United Nations, and to expel forthwith the representatives of Chiang Kai-shek from the place which they unlawfully occupy at the United Nations and in all the organizations related to it.\" This effectively transferred the seat of China in the UN, including its permanent seat on the Security Council, from the ROC to the PRC, and expelled the ROC from the UN. From the United Nations' perspective the \"Republic of China\" is not a former member. No UN member was expelled in 1971. Rather, the credentials of one Chinese delegation (from Taipei) were rejected and the credentials of another Chinese delegation (from Beijing) were accepted.\n\nIn addition to losing its seat in the UN, the UN Secretary-General concluded from the resolution that the General Assembly considered Taiwan to be a province of China. Consequently, the Secretary-General decided that it was not permitted for the ROC to become a party to treaties deposited with it.\n\nIn 1993 the ROC began campaigning to rejoin the UN separately from the People's Republic of China. A number of options were considered, including seeking membership in the specialized agencies, applying for observer status, applying for full membership, or having resolution 2758 revoked to reclaim the seat of China in the UN.\n\nEvery year from 1993–2006, UN member states submitted a memorandum to the UN Secretary-General requesting that the UN General Assembly consider allowing the ROC to resume participating in the United Nations. This approach was chosen, rather than a formal application for membership, because it could be enacted by the General Assembly, while a membership application would need Security Council approval, where the PRC held a veto. Early proposals recommended admitting the ROC with parallel representation over China, along with the People's Republic of China, pending eventual reunification, citing examples of other divided countries which had become separate UN member states, such as East and West Germany and North and South Korea. Later proposals emphasized that the ROC was a separate state, over which the PRC had no effective sovereignty. These proposed resolutions referred to the ROC under a variety of names: \"Republic of China in Taiwan\" (1993–94), \"Republic of China on Taiwan\" (1995–97, 1999–2002), \"Republic of China\" (1998), \"Republic of China (Taiwan)\" (2003) and \"Taiwan\" (2004–06).\n\nHowever, all fourteen attempts were unsuccessful as the General Assembly's General Committee declined to put the issue on the Assembly's agenda for debate, under strong opposition from the PRC.\n\nWhile all these proposals were vague, requesting the ROC be allowed to participate in UN activities without specifying any legal mechanism, in 2007 the ROC submitted a formal application under the name \"Taiwan\" for full membership in the UN.<ref name=\"A/62/193\"></ref> However, the application was rejected by the United Nations Office of Legal Affairs citing General Assembly Resolution 2758, without being forwarded to the Security Council. Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon stated that:\nResponding to the UN's rejection of its application, the ROC government has stated that Taiwan is not now nor has it ever been under the jurisdiction of the PRC, and that since General Assembly Resolution 2758 did not clarify the issue of Taiwan's representation in the UN, it does not prevent Taiwan's participation in the UN as an independent sovereign nation. The ROC government also criticized Ban for asserting that Taiwan is part of China and returning the application without passing it to the Security Council or the General Assembly, contrary to UN's standard procedure (Provisional Rules of Procedure of the Security Council, Chapter X, Rule 59). On the other hand, the PRC government, which has stated that Taiwan is part of China and firmly opposes the application of any Taiwan authorities to join the UN either as a member or an observer, praised that UN's decision \"was made in accordance with the UN Charter and Resolution 2758 of the UN General Assembly, and showed the UN and its member states' universal adherence to the one-China principle\". A group of UN member states put forward a draft resolution for that fall's UN General Assembly calling on the Security Council to consider the application.\n\nThe following year two referendums in Taiwan on the government's attempts to regain participation at the UN did not pass due to low turnout. That fall the ROC took a new approach, with its allies submitting a resolution requesting that the \"Republic of China (Taiwan)\" be allowed to have \"meaningful participation\" in the UN specialized agencies. Again the issue was not put on the Assembly's agenda. In 2009, the ROC chose not to bring the issue of its participation in the UN up for debate at the General Assembly for the first time since it began the campaign in 1993.\n\nIn May 2009, the Department of Health of the Republic of China was invited by the World Health Organization to attend the 62nd World Health Assembly as an observer under the name \"Chinese Taipei\". This was the ROC's first participation in an event organized by a UN-affiliated agency since 1971, as a result of the improved cross-strait relations since Ma Ying-jeou became the President of the Republic of China a year before.\n\nThe Republic of China is officially and the Holy See. It maintains unofficial diplomatic relations with around 100 nations, including the United States and Japan.\n\nCzechoslovakia joined the UN as an original member on 24 October 1945, with its name changed to the Czech and Slovak Federative Republic on 20 April 1990. Upon the imminent dissolution of Czechoslovakia, in a letter dated 10 December 1992, its Permanent Representative informed the United Nations Secretary-General that the Czech and Slovak Federative Republic would cease to exist on 31 December 1992 and that the Czech Republic and Slovakia, as successor states, would apply for membership in the UN. Neither state sought sole successor state status. Both states were admitted to the UN on 19 January 1993.\n\nBoth the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany) and the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) were admitted to the UN on 18 September 1973. Through the accession of the East German federal states to the Federal Republic of Germany, effective from 3 October 1990, the territory of the German Democratic Republic became part of the Federal Republic of Germany, today simply known as \"Germany\". Consequently, the Federal Republic of Germany continued being a member of the UN while the German Democratic Republic ceased to exist.\n\nThe Federation of Malaya joined the United Nations on 17 September 1957. On 16 September 1963, its name was changed to Malaysia, following the formation of Malaysia from Singapore, North Borneo (now Sabah), Sarawak and the Federation of Malaya. Singapore became an independent State on 9 August 1965 and a Member of the United Nations on 21 September 1965.\n\nTanganyika was admitted to the UN on 14 December 1961, and Zanzibar was admitted to the UN on 16 December 1963. Following the ratification on 26 April 1964 of the Articles of Union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar, the two states merged to form the single member \"United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar\", with its name changed to the United Republic of Tanzania on 1 November 1964.\n\nThe Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) joined the UN as an original member on 24 October 1945, and as set out by the United Nations Charter, Chapter V, Article 23, became one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. Upon the imminent dissolution of the USSR, in a letter dated 24 December 1991, Boris Yeltsin, the President of the Russian Federation, informed the United Nations Secretary-General that the membership of the USSR in the Security Council and all other UN organs was being continued by the Russian Federation with the support of the 11 member countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States.\n\nThe other fourteen independent states established from the former Soviet Republics were all admitted to the UN:\n\nBoth Egypt and Syria joined the UN as original members on 24 October 1945. Following a plebiscite on 21 February 1958, the United Arab Republic was established by a union of Egypt and Syria and continued as a single member. On 13 October 1961, Syria, having resumed its status as an independent state, resumed its separate membership in the UN. Egypt continued as a UN member under the name of the United Arab Republic, until it reverted to its original name on 2 September 1971. Syria changed its name to the Syrian Arab Republic on 14 September 1971.\n\nYemen (i.e., North Yemen) was admitted to the UN on 30 September 1947; Southern Yemen (i.e., South Yemen) was admitted to the UN on 14 December 1967, with its name changed to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen on 30 November 1970, and was later referred to as Democratic Yemen. On 22 May 1990, the two states merged to form the Republic of Yemen, which continued as a single member under the name Yemen.\n\nThe Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, referred to as Yugoslavia, joined the UN as an original member on 24 October 1945. By 1992, it had been effectively dissolved into five independent states, which were all subsequently admitted to the UN:\n\nDue to the dispute over its legal successor states, the member state \"Yugoslavia\", referring to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, remained on the official roster of UN members for many years after its effective dissolution. Following the admission of all five states as new UN members, \"Yugoslavia\" was removed from the official roster of UN members.\n\nThe government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, established on 28 April 1992 by the remaining Yugoslav republics of Montenegro and Serbia, claimed itself as the legal successor state of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; however, on 30 May 1992, United Nations Security Council Resolution 757 was adopted, by which it imposed international sanctions on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia due to its role in the Yugoslav Wars, and noted that \"the claim by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) to continue automatically the membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the United Nations has not been generally accepted,\" and on 22 September 1992, United Nations General Assembly Resolution A/RES/47/1 was adopted, by which it considered that \"the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) cannot continue automatically the membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the United Nations,\" and therefore decided that \"the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) should apply for membership in the United Nations and that it shall not participate in the work of the General Assembly\". The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia refused to comply with the resolution for many years, but following the ousting of President Slobodan Milošević from office, it applied for membership, and was admitted to the UN on 1 November 2000. On 4 February 2003, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had its official name changed to Serbia and Montenegro, following the adoption and promulgation of the Constitutional Charter of Serbia and Montenegro by the Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.\n\nOn the basis of a referendum held on 21 May 2006, Montenegro declared independence from Serbia and Montenegro on 3 June 2006. In a letter dated on the same day, the President of Serbia informed the United Nations Secretary-General that the membership of Serbia and Montenegro in the UN was being continued by Serbia, following Montenegro's declaration of independence, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter of Serbia and Montenegro. Montenegro was admitted to the UN on 28 June 2006.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Kosovo War, the territory of Kosovo, then an autonomous province of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, was put under the interim administration of the United Nations Mission in Kosovo on 10 June 1999. On 17 February 2008 it declared independence, but this has not been recognised by Serbia. The Republic of Kosovo is not a member of the UN, but is a member of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group, both specialized agencies in the United Nations System. The Republic of Kosovo is , including three of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council (France, the United Kingdom, and the United States), while the other two—China and Russia—do not recognise Kosovo. On 22 July 2010, the International Court of Justice, the primary judicial organ of the UN, issued an advisory opinion, ruling that Kosovo's declaration of independence was not in violation of international law.\n\nA member state may be suspended or expelled from the UN, according to the United Nations Charter. From Chapter II, Article 5:\nFrom Article 6:\nSince its inception, no member state has been suspended or expelled from the UN under Articles 5 and 6. However, in a few cases, states were suspended or expelled from participating in UN activities by means other than Articles 5 and 6:\n\nSince the inception of the UN, only one member state (excluding those that dissolved or merged with other member states) has unilaterally withdrawn from the UN. During the Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation, and in response to the election of Malaysia as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, in a letter dated 20 January 1965, Indonesia informed the United Nations Secretary-General that it had decided \"at this stage and under the present circumstances\" to withdraw from the UN. However, following the overthrow of President Sukarno, in a telegram dated 19 September 1966, Indonesia notified the Secretary-General of its decision \"to resume full cooperation with the United Nations and to resume participation in its activities starting with the twenty-first session of the General Assembly\". On 28 September 1966, the United Nations General Assembly took note of the decision of the Government of Indonesia and the President invited the representatives of that country to take their seats in the Assembly.\n\nUnlike suspension and expulsion, no express provision is made in the United Nations Charter of whether or how a member can legally withdraw from the UN (largely to prevent the threat of withdrawal from being used as a form of political blackmail, or to evade obligations under the Charter, similar to withdrawals that weakened the UN's predecessor, the League of Nations), or on whether a request for readmission by a withdrawn member should be treated the same as an application for membership, i.e., requiring Security Council as well as General Assembly approval. Indonesia's return to the UN would suggest that this is not required; however, scholars have argued that the course of action taken by the General Assembly was not in accordance with the Charter from a legal point of view.\n\nIn addition to the member states, there are two non-member permanent observer states: the Holy See and the State of Palestine.\n\nThe Sovereign Military Order of Malta, while not a state, has observer status at the UN and maintains diplomatic relations with 107 countries.\n\nA number of states were also granted observer status before being admitted to the UN as full members. The most recent case of an observer state becoming a member state was Switzerland, which was admitted in 2002.\n\nA European Union institution, the European Commission, was granted observer status at the UNGA through Resolution 3208 in 1974. The Treaty of Lisbon in 2009 resulted in the delegates being accredited directly to the EU. It was accorded full rights in the General Assembly, bar the right to vote and put forward candidates, via UNGA Resolution A/RES/65/276 on 10 May 2011. It is the only non-state party to over 50 multilateral conventions, and has participated as a full member in every way except for having a vote in a number of UN conferences.\n\nThe sovereignty status of Western Sahara is in dispute between Morocco and the Polisario Front. Most of the territory is controlled by Morocco, the remainder (the Free Zone) by the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, proclaimed by the Polisario Front. Western Sahara is listed by the UN as a \"non-self-governing territory\".\n\nThe Cook Islands and Niue, which are both associated states of New Zealand, are not members of the UN, but are members of specialized agencies of the UN such as WHO and UNESCO, and have had their \"full treaty-making capacity\" recognized by United Nations Secretariat in 1992 and 1994 respectively. They have since become parties to a number of international treaties which the UN Secretariat acts as a depositary for, such as the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and are treated as non-member states. Both the Cook Islands and Niue have expressed a desire to become a UN member state, but New Zealand has said that they would not support the application without a change in their constitutional relationship, in particular their right to New Zealand citizenship.\n\nPer United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 and the ongoing dialogue on the political status of Kosovo, the Republic of Kosovo is not a member of the United Nations, despite having relations with a majority of member states. It is a member of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank and has applied for UNESCO membership but was narrowly rejected in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "45477511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45477511", "title": "Nicolae Culianu", "text": "Nicolae Culianu\n\nNicolae Culianu (August 28, 1832 – November 28, 1915) was a Moldavian, later Romanian mathematician and astronomer.\n\nA native of Iași, he enrolled in the University of Paris after graduating from \"Academia Mihăileană\" in 1855, and earned his undergraduate degree in mathematics in 1860. He remained there until 1863, performing research at the Paris Observatory. Initially a high school teacher, he later joined the astronomy and geodesy faculty of Iași University, where he served as dean of the sciences faculty, and from 1880 to 1898 as rector. He was a close associate of Titu Maiorescu, a member of the \"Junimea\" movement that the latter led, and involved in the educational reform movement it promoted. As such, he was among the founders of a private high school in Iași, to which he donated a group of buildings. While active in \"Junimea\", his renowned affability and venerable bearing earned him the nickname \"Papa Culiano\". He was elected a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy in 1889.\n\nHe helped found the Iași astronomical observatory for the use of students and teachers, and published textbooks on mathematics and geodesy. He was among the founders \"Recreații Științifice\", the country's first scientific periodical addressed to young people and to a generalist audience. Briefly involved in politics, he was vice president of the Romanian Senate during the fourth conservative government of Lascăr Catargiu (1892–1896).\n\nCulianu's textbooks include an 1870 one on differential and integral calculus, the first published Romanian-language course on mathematical analysis; and ones on elementary algebra (1872), applied geometry (1874), plane and spherical trigonometry (1875), cosmography (1893), plane trigonometry (1894) and high-school cosmography (1895). He was buried in Eternitatea cemetery. His great-grandson was Ioan Petru Culianu.\n\n Olga Diaconu, \"Institutele Unite – veche școală particulară model\", in \"Recreații Matematice\", nr.2/2012, pp. 128–30\n"}
{"id": "22689241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22689241", "title": "Nicolas de Nicolay", "text": "Nicolas de Nicolay\n\nNicolas de Nicolay, Sieur d'Arfeville & de Belair, (1517–1583) of the Nicolay (family) was a French geographer.\n\nBorn at la Grave in Oisans, in the Dauphiné, he left France in 1542 to participate in the siege of Perpignan which was then held by Emperor Charles V of Austria.\n\nIn 1547 he sailed to Scotland where his intervention ended the siege of St Andrews Castle. In 1548 he returned to Scotland to take away Mary, Queen of Scots from Dumbarton Castle, sailing around the west coast of Ireland. He travelled around Germany, Denmark, England, Sweden, Italy, Spain, Greece and Turkey and served in the armies of most of these countries. On his return to France, Henry II made him Geographer Ordinary and Valet to the Chamber.\n\nAround this time, he appears to have made a terrestrial globe that provided the model for the Oterschaden globe of c.1600.\n\nIn 1551, Henry II ordered him to follow Gabriel d'Aramon, envoy and ambassador to the Grand Turk Suleiman the Magnificent. In the course of the voyage, his unofficial mission was to survey the places visited, including Istanbul. It has been suggested that one of his objectives was to spy for the French crown.\n\nIn 1583, he died in Soissons, where he was Commissioner of artillery, after a stay at the royal castle of Moulins.\n\nPublished in 1598, \"Quatre premiers livres des navigations\" (\"Travels in Turkey)\" recorded Nicolay's observations about the Ottoman court and peoples from his 1551 mission to Istanbul on behalf of the French government. The book served as the first comprehensive survey of customs and costumes in the Ottoman world, and is hailed as one of the earliest and most accurate depictions of the Islamic world to appear in Europe. \"Travels in Turkey\" achieved a high level of commercial success upon its release. It was later reissued and translated for a number of different countries, including Italy, the Netherlands, England, and Germany. The widespread popularity of the book contributed to the proliferation of costume books throughout Europe at the end of the 16th century, and continued to influence Orientalist artists well into the 19th century such as Eugene Delacroix and Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres.\n\n\"Travels in Turkey\" is divided in four books, following Nicolay's voyage to Istanbul, accounts of ethnic groups and Ottoman court life, and the religious and military administration in Istanbul. Louis Danet made 60 engravings based on Nicolay's original drawings, which serve as the core of the books, and each print is followed by a caption, describing Islamic ritual, religion and monuments. The images cover all aspects of Ottoman daily life, and depict figures ranging from sultans and sultanas to wrestlers, cooks and Janissary generals. The images are typical of costume books, and consist of lone figures, depicted on a very sparse background, which emphasizes the dress of the figure, rather than geography. In the costume book, figures are schematized and follow general types, and Brafman writes that \"Nicolay, or his engravers, render facial expressions in an exaggerated style. Emotional reaction are evoked artistically, whether it be identification with a mother, sympathy for a Christian slave, or fascination with exotic and 'monstrous' alien practice\".\n\nHe wrote several books:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7595584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7595584", "title": "OKATO", "text": "OKATO\n\nRussian Classification on Objects of Administrative Division (), or OKATO (), also called All-Russian classification on units of administrative and territorial distribution in English, is one of several Russian national registers. OKATO's purpose is organization of information about structure of the administrative divisions of the federal subjects of Russia.\n\nThe document assigns numeric codes to each administrative division of the country, which are hierarchically structured from the federal subject level down to selsoviet level; an expanded version also includes listings of individual inhabited localities within each administrative division.\n\nOKATO is used for statistical and tax purposes. It was adopted on July 31, 1995, replacing SOATO (\"Designation System of Objects of Administrative Division of the Union of SSR and the Union Republics, as well as Inhabited Localities\"). It went into effect on January 1, 1997 and as of 2014 underwent 243 revisions. The compilation and maintenance of the OKATO data are the responsibility of the Federal State Statistics Service (\"Rosstat\") of Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "29509739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29509739", "title": "Owain Jones", "text": "Owain Jones\n\nOwain Jones FGS (born 1957, Newport, Wales) is a Professor of Environmental Humanities at Bath Spa University (UK). He was previously Reader in Cultural Geography: Place, Nature and Landscape (previously Senior Research Fellow) at the Countryside & Community Research Institute (which is a joint Institute of the Universities of the West of England and Gloucestershire and the Royal Agricultural College and Hartpury College) and member of staff of the Department of Geography and Environmental Management, Faculty of Environment and Technology, University of the West of England.\n\nHe works mainly in cultural geography and has published a number of peer-reviewed research articles in international geography and related social science journals. He has two main areas of research and writing interests; geographies of nature-culture and children's geographies. Within the former he focuses upon animal geographies, place/landscape/dwelling, and tidal geographies (and temporal rhythms of landscape).\n\nJones undertook a BA in 3D Design/Construction at Bristol Polytechnic, graduating in 1981, an MA /Postgraduate Diploma in Environmental Policy and Geography, University of the West of England, 1993, MSc. in Society and Space, University of Bristol, 1993, MA in Creative Writing, BSUC, 2004 and completed his PhD in the Dept of Geography, University of Bristol in 1997. He has conducted research variously funded by the ESRC, AHRC, and RCUK (RELU). He has also written on geography, non-representational theory and pragmatism. and geography and memory.\n\nHis work is of significance in the area of geographies nature-culture. That is – a view of nature-society relations which seeks to understand the interdependency between the human and non-human world. This draws upon, and contributes to, a range of theories including Actor Network Theory (ANT); dwelling; hybridity; new dialectics; new approaches to place; and new ecologies.\n\nThe importance of his work is reflected in the selection of an extract from the book \"\"Tree Cultures: The Place of Trees, and Trees in their Place\", for the “Nature” section of \"The Cultural Geography Reader\" edited by Oakes and Price. This extract sits alongside other seminal writings on nature by Raymond Williams, Clarence J. Glacken, Alexander Wilson and others. Because of his work in this field, Owain Jones was selected to write the \"Nature-Culture\" and \"Dwelling\" entries for the \"International Encyclopaedia of Human Geography\".\n\nOwain Jones's influential 1995 paper on discourses of rurality has been recently republished as part of the \"Journal of Rural Studies\"' 25th anniversary.\n\nHe has also been an invited speaker at a number of major international academic conferences on rurality, human-animal interactions, and geographies of forests, places and landscapes.\n\nIn the area of children's geographies Owain Jones has pioneered the idea of the \"otherness of children\". This has been taken up by other academics such as Karen Lury.\n\nOwain Jones is also founder and Chair of Priston Festival, a community art and music festival near the city of Bath, Somerset, south west England.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22677611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22677611", "title": "Pawala Valley Ridge", "text": "Pawala Valley Ridge\n\nPawala Valley Ridge, is the highest point of the Pitcairn Islands, a British overseas territory in the Pacific Ocean, with an elevation of 347 metres (1,138 ft).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21983622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21983622", "title": "Regions of Cape Verde", "text": "Regions of Cape Verde\n\nCape Verde is an archipelago, and its islands are historically divided into two groups, or regions:\n\n\nIn addition to the historical regions, the islands can also be divided by geographical features, resulting in:\n"}
{"id": "24018454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24018454", "title": "Reserva Ecologica Taricaya", "text": "Reserva Ecologica Taricaya\n\nReserva Ecologica Taricaya is a private nature reserve located in the Peruvian Amazon along the Madre de Dios River, a major tributary to the Amazon River. Since 2004, it has been under the ownership of Projects Abroad, a profit company based in Great Britain with volunteer programs in over 20 countries. \nPuerto Maldonado, the nearest city and capital of the Madre de Dios department of Peru, is located approximately one hour away by boat ride.\n\n"}
{"id": "21369887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21369887", "title": "Richard Spratly", "text": "Richard Spratly\n\nCaptain Richard Spratly (1802–1870) was a British sea captain and contributor to navigational records, after whom the Spratly Islands in the West Philippine Sea are named.\n\nRichard Spratly was born on 22 January 1802 in the parish of All Saints, Poplar, East London. His father, Thomas, is described on his birth certificate as a boatbuilder. His mother was Ann née Myers. He was the second of four children (Mary Ann born 25 December 1799), Jane (born 15 December 1812) and William (born 18 March 1815).\n\n1818, 6 June – Spratly first sails as an apprentice on \"Earl of Marley\" (possibly \"Earl Morley\", a whaler)\n1824, June – Spratly sails as 2nd officer on \"Marquis of Huntley\", a convict ship\n1832, 1 September – Convict ship \"York\", with Richard Spratly as captain, sails from Plymouth with 200 convicts on board.\n1832, 29 December – Convict ship \"York\", with Richard Spratly as captain, arrives Van Diemen's Land (Tasmania)\n1833, 20 October – , under Captain Hingston, arrives Gravesend from the Southern Ocean. Owners were Jarvis and Co.\n1834, 5 July – Richard Spratly replaces Hingston as master of \"Cyrus\"\n1837, 25 October – \"Cyrus\" arrives at Portsmouth from South Seas\n1838, (unknown) – \"Cyrus\" surveyed by Lloyds\n1838, June – \"Cyrus\" departs on a whaling voyage\n\nIn 1840, Richard Spratly was sailing past Manado, on Sulawesi. He became the witness to an attack by a local sultan on Erskine Murray's yacht \"Young Queen\", captained by Captain Hait, and the brig \"Anne\", captained by Captain Lewis. The account was documented in a letter to one Honorable E. Murray and published in the \"Sydney Shipping Gazette\".\n\nAccording to accounts by the crew, on 24 February 1844, \"Cyrus\" anchored at Kema Roads, Celebes, with a valuable cargo of whale oil. The next day the crew went ashore, but returned a few men short. Two men, Heron and Robson, were spotted and told to return but fled after they were confronted only to return later on the 28th. Crew members Howland and Heron went missing on 2 March. Finally on 3 March, after much searching and drunken antics by her crew on the Dutch occupied island, \"Cyrus\" sailed away to return to England, but without the missing crew members.\n\nUpon returning to Great Britain in August 1844, the crew was summoned to a hearing by William Heron's mother. The incident had not been well documented and there was not enough evidence to suggest one way or the other if Captain Spratly was guilty of abandoning them without a thorough search, therefore no jury trial followed. The account given by the newspapers was starkly different from the crew's accounts recorded by the courts and gave more details of the course of events.\n\nCirca. 1838–1844\n\nCaptain Spratly occasionally submitted navigational routes and survey information to \"The Nautical Magazine\" and the \"Naval Chronicles\".\n\nOn 29 March 1843, Spratly sighted what is now known in English as Spratly Island and Ladd Reef. Richard Spratly was the name reported by Captain Doyle of Australia and Captain Campbell of the Hydrographic Office His sighting was reported in \"The Nautical Magazine\" in the year 1843, issue 697:.\n\nThe publication of his voyage in the Nautical Magazine and The Naval Chronicle popularized his naming of the island, even though the island had previously been named \"Horsburgh's Storm Island\" by Captain James Horsburgh. The British Admiralty finally agreed that the scattered islands in the area be named the Spratly Islands.\n\n1845, 22 May – \"Cyrus\" departs from The Downs [off Dover]\n1845, 18 Sept – \"Cyrus\" under Spratly in Batavia, from London, for South Seas\n1848, 1 June – \"Cyrus\", under Spratly, returns to England from the South Seas\n1848, 8 June – Spratly stops being Master of \"Cyrus\"\n1849, March – Spratly becomes Master of \"Margaret\"\n1849, 1 April – \"Margaret\", under Spratley, departs bound for the South Seas\n1851, 11 April – Spratly letter in \"The Nautical Magazine\" (p. 490: \"Eastern Navigation from the Margaret\")\n1852, unknown – \"Margaret, Spratly, master, bound for the South Sea (Lloyds Register)\n1852, 6 March – Spratly stops being master of \"Margaret\"\n1853, 29 June – Richard Spratly makes claim for Master's certificate of service\n1853, July – Richard Spratly granted Master's certificate in London\n1858, 24 March – \"Atalanta\", Capt. Spratly, belonging to Messrs. Wilson and Cooke, London, was despatched by Mr. J.B. Wilcocks, from Plymouth, on Wednesday, March 24, with 396 Government emigrants for Melbourne, comprising 26 married couples, 98 single men, 163 single women, and 83 children, of whom 147 were English and 249 Irish; under the medical care of Mr. J.S. Ireland.\n1858 7 June \"Atalanta\" arrives at Melbourne, Victoria and Sydney in 1859.\n1860 5 March \"Atalanta\" (960 tons) departs England(?) carrying 345 emigrants (28 men, 297 women, 20 children)\n1860 30 May \"Atalanta\" arrives Victoria, Australia after voyage of 86 days\n1861 Richd Spratly noted in Census. Married, age 59. Master, not living on board. Vessel \"Atalanta\". Number 5 Jetty North Side East India Docks\n\nThere is an entry for a Captain Richard Spratly as master of \"Redrose\" in 1864. It's not clear if this is the same Richard Spratly.\n\nRichard Spratly died, \"at the residence of his nephew, Ealing, Middlesex, aged 69.\". The address on death certificate is Oxton Villa, Ealing. The cause of death was pleuropneumonia. The informant was Richard's youngest child, Matilda M. Spratly, resident of Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.\n\nHe married Jane Miller at St George in the East, Cannon Street Road, London in 1828. He had four children: Jane Miller Spratly, born in Stepney, 24 February 1839; Richard Jolly Spratly, born in Stepney 21 June 1842; Thomas Miller Spratly, baptised in Whitechapel St Mary, 26 November 1845 and Matilda, born in Ramsgate 9 July 1849. In the 1861 UK National Census Richd Spratlyis recorded as Master of the vessel Atalanta. Number 5 Jetty North Side East India Docks but not living on board. The family are recorded as: Richard (Master Mariner, 59) & Jane (born Whitechapel, 52) Spratly living together 22 Robinsons Road, Hackney (district 6) with Richard (son, 18 born Stepney), Thomas (son, 15 born Ramsgate) and Jane (daughter, 22 born Stepney). Matilda Spratly (daughter, 11, born Ramsgate, staying with friends)\n\n"}
{"id": "2496565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2496565", "title": "Sologne", "text": "Sologne\n\nThe Sologne is a region of north-central France extending over portions of the departements of Loiret, Loir-et-Cher and Cher. Its area is about . To its north is the river Loire, to its south the river Cher, while the districts of Sancerre and Berry are to its east.\n\nIts name is thought to derive either from the Latin \"sœcalonia\" (\"rye country\") or \"sabulonia\" (\"sandy country\").\n\nThe Sologne is watered by the Cosson and the Beuvron, tributaries of the Loire, and the Sauldre, a tributary of the Cher, all three having a west-south-westerly direction. The pools and marshes which are characteristic of the region are due to the impermeability of its soil, which is a mixture of sand and clay.\n\nThe main towns of Sologne are:\n\nIn the middle of the 19th century Napoleon III led the way in the reclamation of swamps, the planting of pines and other trees and other improvements. Arable farming and stock-raising are fairly flourishing in the Sologne, but there is little manufacturing activity, the cloth manufacture of Romorantin being the chief industry. Game is abundant, and the region owes much of its revived prosperity to the creation of large sporting estates.\n\nIn the early 18th century, Jean-Philippe Rameau composed a famous harpsichord piece, \"Les Niais de Sologne\", whose name translates as \"the simpletons of Sologne\". The form is a rondo with two episodes that are variations on the main section. Despite the title (which may allude to the meandering melody throughout), its use of ornamentation denotes a work of great subtlety and sophistication.\n\nThe book \"Le Grand Meaulnes\" by Alain-Fournier is set in the region of Sologne and mentions several places, such as Bourges, Vierzon and the Cher. It is somewhere in this region where Meaulnes becomes lost and stumbles across the mysterious estate.\n\nMany stories and essays of Maurice Genevoix are set in Sologne.\n\nThe Chateau de Chambord is situated in the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "433323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433323", "title": "Syria Palaestina", "text": "Syria Palaestina\n\nSyria Palaestina was a Roman province between 135 AD and about 390. It was established by the merger of Roman Syria and Roman Judaea, following the defeat of the Bar Kokhba revolt in 135 CE. Shortly after 193, the northern regions were split off as Syria Coele in the north and Phoenice in the south, and the province Syria Palaestina was reduced to Judea. The earliest numismatic evidence for the name \"Syria Palaestina\" comes from the period of emperor Marcus Aurelius.\n\nSyria was an early Roman province, annexed to the Roman Republic in 64 BCE by Pompey in the Third Mithridatic War, following the defeat of Armenian King Tigranes the Great. Following the partition of the Herodian kingdom into tetrarchies in 6 CE, it was gradually absorbed into Roman provinces, with Roman Syria annexing Iturea and Trachonitis.\n\nThe Roman province of Judea incorporated the regions of Judea, Samaria, and Idumea, and extended over parts of the former regions of the Hasmonean and Herodian kingdoms of Israel. It was named after Herod Archelaus's Tetrarchy of Judea, but the Roman province encompassed a much larger territory.\n\nThe capital of Roman Syria was established in Antioch from the very beginning of Roman rule, while the capital of the Judaea province was shifted to Caesarea Maritima, which, according to historian H. H. Ben-Sasson, had been the \"administrative capital\" of the region beginning in 6 CE.\n\nJudea province was the scene of unrest at its founding in 6 CE during the Census of Quirinius and several wars were fought in its history, known as the Jewish–Roman wars. The Temple was destroyed in 70 CE as part of the Great Jewish Revolt resulting in the institution of the Fiscus Judaicus. The Provinces of Judaea and Syria were key scenes of an increasing conflict between Judaean and Hellenistic population, which exploded into full scale Jewish–Roman wars, beginning with the Great Jewish Revolt of 66–70. Disturbances followed throughout the region during the Kitos War in 117–118. Between 132–135, Simon bar Kokhba led a revolt against the Roman Empire, controlling parts of Judea but seemingly not Jerusalem, for three years. As a result, Hadrian sent Sextus Julius Severus to the region, who brutally crushed the revolt. Shortly before or after the Bar Kokhba's revolt (132–135), the Roman Emperor Hadrian changed the name of the Judea province and merged it with Roman Syria to form \"Syria Palaestina\", while Jerusalem was renamed to \"Aelia Capitolina\", which certain scholars conclude was done in an attempt to remove the relationship of the Jewish people to the region.\n\nOnly circumstantial evidence links Hadrian with the name change, and the precise date is not certain. The common view that the name change was intended to \"sever the connection of the Jews to their historical homeland\" is disputed.\n\nAfter crushing the Bar Kokhba revolt, the Roman Emperor Hadrian applied the name \"Syria Palestina\" to the entire region that had formerly included Judea province. Hadrian probably chose a name that revived the ancient name of Philistia (Palestine), combining it with that of the neighboring province of Syria, in an attempt to suppress Jewish connection to the land, although the actual Philistines from which the name derives had disappeared from history during the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911–605 BC). The city of Aelia Capitolina was built by the emperor Hadrian on the ruins of Jerusalem. The capital of the enlarged province remained in Antiochia.\nIn 193, the province of Syria-Coele was split from Syria Palaestina. In the 3rd century, Syrians even reached for imperial power, with the Severan dynasty. Syria was of crucial strategic importance during the Crisis of the Third Century.\n\nBeginning in 212, Palmyra's trade diminished as the Sassanids occupied the mouth of the Tigris and the Euphrates. In 232, the Syrian Legion rebelled against the Roman Empire, but the uprising went unsuccessful.\n\nSeptimius Odaenathus, a Prince of the Aramean state of Palmyra, was appointed by Valerian as the governor of the province of Syria Palaestina. After Valerian was captured by the Sassanids in 260, and died in captivity in Bishapur, Odaenathus campaigned as far as Ctesiphon (near modern-day Baghdad) for revenge, invading the city twice. When Odaenathus was assassinated by his nephew Maconius, his wife Septimia Zenobia took power, ruling Palmyra on behalf of her son, Vabalathus.\nZenobia rebelled against Roman authority with the help of Cassius Longinus and took over Bosra and lands as far to the west as Egypt, establishing the short-lived Palmyrene Empire. Next, she took Antioch and large sections of Asia Minor to the north. In 272, the Roman Emperor Aurelian finally restored Roman control and Palmyra was besieged and sacked, never to recover her former glory. Aurelian captured Zenobia, bringing her back to Rome. He paraded her in golden chains in the presence of the senator Marcellus Petrus Nutenus, but allowed her to retire to a villa in Tibur, where she took an active part in society for years. A legionary fortress was established in Palmyra and although no longer an important trade center, it nevertheless remained an important junction of Roman roads in the Syrian desert.\n\nDiocletian built the Camp of Diocletian in the city of Palmyra to harbor even more legions and walled it in to try and save it from the Sassanid threat. The Byzantine period following the Roman Empire only resulted in the building of a few churches; much of the city went to ruin.\n\nIn circa 390, Syria Palaestina was reorganised into the several administrative units: Palaestina Prima, \"Palaestina Secunda\", and \"Palaestina Tertia\" (in the 6th century), Syria Prima and Phoenice and Phoenice Lebanensis. All were included within the larger Eastern Roman (\"Byzantine\") Diocese of the East, together with the provinces of Isauria, Cilicia, Cyprus (until 536), Euphratensis, Mesopotamia, Osroene, and Arabia Petraea.\n\nPalaestina Prima consisted of Judea, Samaria, the Paralia, and Peraea, with the governor residing in Caesarea. \"Palaestina Secunda\" consisted of the Galilee, the lower Jezreel Valley, the regions east of Galilee, and the western part of the former Decapolis, with the seat of government at Scythopolis. \"Palaestina Tertia\" included the Negev, southern Transjordan part of Arabia, and most of Sinai, with Petra as the usual residence of the governor. Palestina Tertia was also known as Palaestina Salutaris.\n\nA number of events with far-reaching consequences took place, including religious schisms, such as Christianity branching off from Judaism.\n\nAfter the Jewish–Roman wars (66–135), which Epiphanius believed the Cenacle survived, the significance of Jerusalem to Christians entered a period of decline, Jerusalem having been temporarily converted to the pagan Aelia Capitolina, but interest resumed again with the pilgrimage of Helena (the mother of Constantine the Great) to the Holy Land c. 326–28.\n\nNew pagan cities were founded in Judea at Eleutheropolis (Bayt Jibrin), Diopolis (Lydd), and Nicopolis (Emmaus).\n\nSecond Temple Judaism is Judaism between the construction of the Second Temple in Jerusalem, c. 515 BCE, and its destruction by the Romans in 70 CE. The development of the Hebrew Bible canon, the synagogue, Jewish apocalyptic expectations for the future, and Christianity, can all be traced to the Second Temple period.\n\nFollowing the Jewish–Roman wars, many Jews left the country altogether for the Diaspora communities, and large numbers of prisoners of war were sold as slaves throughout the Empire. This changed the perception of Jerusalem as the center of faith and autonomous Jewish communities shifted from centralized religious authority into more dispersed one.\n\nThe Romans destroyed the Jewish community of the Church in Jerusalem, which had existed since the time of Jesus. Traditionally it is believed the Jerusalem Christians waited out the Jewish–Roman wars in Pella in the Decapolis.\n\nThe line of Jewish bishops in Jerusalem, which is claimed to have started with Jesus's brother James the Righteous as its first bishop, ceased to exist, within the Empire. Hans Kung in \"Islam: Past Present and Future\", suggests that the Jewish Christians sought refuge in Arabia and he quotes with approval Clemen et al.:\n\"This produces the paradox of truly historic significance that while Jewish Christianity was swallowed up in the Christian church, it preserved itself in Islam.\"\n\nChristianity was practiced in secret and the Hellenization of Palaestina continued under Septimius Severus (193–211 AD).\n\nAs a large province, the territory of Syria-Palaestina comprised the Levant and the western part of Mesopotamia. In Northern Levant, the mixed pagan population of Phoenicians, Greeks and Romans formed the majority, alongside later arriving migrant Ismaelite Arab societies of Itureans and later also Qahtanite Ghassanids, who migrated to the area of Golantis in 4th century from what is today Yemen.\n\nAssyrians were still populating western Mesopotamia and indeed Mesopotamia as a whole, while nomad Arameans, Nabateans and Bedouins, were thriving in the south Syrian Desert. In Southern Levant, until about 200 CE, and despite the genocide of Jewish–Roman wars, Jews had formed a majority of the population.\n\nBy the beginning of the Byzantine period (disestablishment of Syria-Palaestina), the Jews had become a minority and were living alongside Samaritans, pagan Greco-Syriacs and a large Syriac Christian community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4228754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4228754", "title": "United States National Grid", "text": "United States National Grid\n\nThe United States National Grid (USNG) is a point reference system of grid references commonly used in the United States. It provides a nationally consistent language of location in a user friendly format. It is similar in design to the national grid reference systems used throughout other nations. The USNG was developed by the Federal Geographic Data Committee.\n\nThe purpose of the USNG according to the FGDC, is to \"create a more interoperable environment for developing location-based services within the United States and to increase the interoperability of location services appliances with printed map products by establishing a nationally consistent grid reference system as the preferred grid for NSDI applications. The U.S. National Grid is based on universally-defined coordinate and grid systems and can, therefore, be easily extended for use worldwide as a universal grid reference system.\" \n\nIt resembles the Military Grid Reference System (MGRS). When the WGS84 datum or NAD83 datum is used, USNG and MGRS coordinates are \"equivalent\".\n\nIn addition, it has the advantage of being easily plotted on USGS topographic and other properly gridded maps by using a simple \"read right and then up\" convention where the user measures to the East and then North in linear increments. The coordinates are easily translated to distance as they are actually in meters rather than the more complex degree based increments of latitude and longitude. Thus the distance between two coordinates can quickly be determined in the field.\n\nUSNG 1 km grid statewide polygons for select states can be downloaded from http://usngcenter.org. The website also provides more detailed information about the US National Grid.\n\nUSNG allows a common system based on the US Military Grid system using landmarks like hills or streams, anything permanent. It allows these maps to be printed anywhere by responders totally unfamiliar with the local area. The degree of precision is determined by the number of digits in the coordinates, 23 67 = 1000 meters, 23451 67345 = 1 meter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56825504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56825504", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of New Caledonia", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of New Caledonia\n\nNew Caledonia requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current plates are European standard 520 mm × 110 mm, and use French stamping dies. The overseas departments and territories of France have three-digit codes, starting with 97, which was originally the single code for them all.\n"}
{"id": "12914607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12914607", "title": "WMS (hydrology software)", "text": "WMS (hydrology software)\n\nWMS (Watershed Modeling System) is a watershed computer simulation and modeling software application from Aquaveo. It was originally created in the early 1990s at the Engineering Computer Graphics Laboratory at Brigham Young University.\n\nThe software supports a number of hydraulic and hydrologic models that can be used to create drainage basin simulations.\n\nThe Watershed Modeling System (WMS) is a proprietary water modeling software application used to develop watershed computer simulations. The software provides tools to automate various basic and advanced delineations, calculations, and modeling processes. It supports river hydraulic and storm drain models, lumped parameter, regression, 2D hydrologic modeling of watersheds, and can be used to model both water quantity and water quality. , supported models include HEC-1, HEC-RAS, HEC-HMS, TR-20, TR-55, NFF, Rational, MODRAT, HSPF, CE-QUAL-W2, GSSHA, SMPDBK, and other models.\n\nWMS was initially developed by the Engineering Computer Graphics Laboratory at Brigham Young University in the early 1990s on Unix workstations. James Nelson, Norman Jones, and Woodruff Miller wrote a 1992 paper titled \"Algorithm for Precise Drainage-Basin Delineation\" that was published in the March 1994 issue of the \"Journal of Hydraulic Engineering\". The paper described an algorithm that could be used to describe the flow of water in a drainage basin, thereby defining the drainage basin. \n\nThe development of WMS was funded primarily by The United States Army Corps of Engineers (COE). In 1997, WMS was used by the COE to model runoff in the Sava River basin in Bosnia. The software was sold commercially by Environmental Modeling Systems.\n\nIt was later ported to Windows platforms in the mid 1990s. WMS 6.0 (2000) was the last supported version for HP-UX, IRIX, OSF/1, and Solaris platforms. Development of WMS was done by the Environmental Modeling Research Laboratory (EMRL) at Brigham Young University (BYU) until April 2007, when the main software development team at EMRL incorporated as Aquaveo. Royalties from the software are paid to the engineering department at BYU.\n\nThe planners of the 2002 Winter Olympics, held in Salt Lake City, Utah, used WMS software to simulate terrorist attacks on water infrastructure such as the Jordanelle Reservoir. A 2007 paper, \"Demonstrating Floodplain Uncertainty Using Flood Probability Maps\", used WMS to demonstrate a new method of floodplain mapping that included uncertainty in its calculations and results.\n\nIn 2008, the software was used in a study of severe flash flooding common to the Dez River basin in Khuzestan province in Iran. Both a rainfall runoff model (HEC-1) and hydraulic model (HEC-RAS) were created to simulate a major flood scenario to allow future planning for flash flooding control.\n\nA 2011 study to identify areas with potential groundwater in the Sinai Peninsula was performed using WMS by Hossam H. Elewa and Atef A. Qaddah. WMS was used in combination with the TOPAZ model by a group of researchers in 2012 to help determine the impact of land development on the tropical watershed in the Upper Bernam River Basin in Malaysia for the years 1989-1995. The study was done to find ways of preventing shortages of irrigation water and the occurrence of floods.\n\nDue to water shortages in Iraq, a group of engineers used WMS to study ways to optimize water collection and storage.\n\n\n"}
