{"id": "16521552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16521552", "title": "1st Conference of the Communist Parties of Latin America", "text": "1st Conference of the Communist Parties of Latin America\n\nThe First Conference of the Communist Parties of Latin America was in Buenos Aires, Argentina, June 1–12, 1929. Thirty-eight delegates, representing Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Cuba, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, took part in the meeting. The only established communist party in the region that did not participate was the Communist Party of Chile, which at time suffered a period of harsh repression under the government of Carlos Ibáñez del Campo.\n\nThe conference agreed on an analysis of the Latin American political development, considering that the revolution in Latin America ought to be anti-imperialist, agrarian, and democratic. The conference also committed itself to an accord of solidarity with the Soviet Union.\n\nRonaldo Munck, Ricardo Falcón, and Bernardo Galitelli wrote that the conference \"set the 'Third Period' course for Latin American communism as a whole.\"\n"}
{"id": "26839485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26839485", "title": "Action for Boston Community Development", "text": "Action for Boston Community Development\n\nAction for Boston Community Development (ABCD) is an anti-poverty and community development organization founded in 1961 as Boston Community Development Program (BCDP) in Boston, Massachusetts and incorporated as Action for Boston Community Development in 1962, serving as a prototype for urban “human renewal” agencies.\n\nIt is the largest non-profit human services agency in New England, annually serving more than 85,000 low-income Boston-area residents through its central offices and a decentralized network of Neighborhood Service Centers (NSCs), Head Start centers, Family Planning sites, and Foster Grandparent sites.\n\nEvery year since 1974, ABCD has a Community Awards dinner honoring people and organizations who have made significant contributions to the Boston community especially through their volunteerism.\n\nABCD provides services to the community through a decentralized, citywide network, which includes 15 neighborhood centers.\n\nThese centers are usually an Area Planning Action Council (APAC), a Family Service Center (FSC), or a Neighborhood Services Center (NSC).\n\nThe neighborhood centers include:\n\nABCD operates two schools for specialized populations and serve as alternative learning environments.\n\nThe ABCD President/CEO provides operational and visionary leadership to ABCD, reporting to the 50-member ABCD Board of Directors. The Vice Presidents provide management covering every program and employee. Department Heads and Program Directors manage ABCD programs. Neighborhood Directors oversee operations in the many neighborhood-based centers.\n\n\nABCD runs a variety of programs for individuals and families living in the City of Boston. The agency's stated goal through these programs is to \"meet needs, empower individuals and families, and strengthen communities.\" These programs include Career Development, Charitable Campaigns, Early Child Care & Education, Elder Services, Financial Futures Initiative, Food Pantries, Fuel Assistance/Energy Conservation, Health Services, Housing & Homelessness Prevention, Youth Development.\n\nABCD Head Start and Children's Services is the largest early childhood provider in Boston, and is among the top three early childhood providers in the state \n\nABCD Head Start and Children's Services is a family development program that serves pregnant women, children from birth to age five, and their families. The Head Start programs that ABCD runs are child-focused and designed to provide opportunities and services to low-income children and families of Boston.\n\nABCD Fuel Assistance helps more than 15,000 low-income households in Boston, Brookline and Newton pay fuel bills during the heating season. During the 2009 season, the Fuel Assistance program was able to expand eligibility requirements thanks to increased federal and state funding, up to a family of four with an income of $53,608 being eligible for some assistance. Funding sources have included the NSTAR foundation, which in 2001 donated $80,000 to the Fuel Assistance program.\n\nABCD's SummerWorks program, started in 1965, found jobs for 2,200 people between the ages of 14-24 during the summer of 2009. In 2010, SummerWorks is projected to receive between 7,000 and 8,000 applications, a 200% increase over 2009. Participants receive guidance, comprehensive work readiness and life skills workshops ranging from resume writing, financial education, conflict resolution and workplace etiquette. Many of them will be placed at local non-profit organizations such as hospitals, health centers, museums, day camps, government\nagencies and child care centers.\n"}
{"id": "2633749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2633749", "title": "African Contingency Operations Training and Assistance", "text": "African Contingency Operations Training and Assistance\n\nThe African Contingency Operations Training and Assistance (ACOTA) program, formerly the African Crisis Response Initiative (ACRI), is a United States program to train military trainers and equip African national militaries to conduct peace support operations and humanitarian relief.\n\nThe ACOTA program, which succeeded ACRI in 2004, aims to increase the capabilities of African military forces in areas such as human rights, interaction with civil society, international law, military staff skills, and small unit operations. Over 40,000 African soldiers will be trained in peacekeeping over five years. The African Contingency Operations Training and Assistance program has a record of supporting African military forces that have afterwards participated in peacekeeping or peace support activities in the continent. The program is funded by the US Department of State peacekeeping operations account.\n\nMass murder and genocide have linked historically to the Belgian colonial occupation of the Congo in the 1890 during which ten million people were massacred as part of the initiative of pacification. The controlling European powers that had defined their mission as the civilization of \"uncivilized\" peoples; elimination of slavery; redemption of souls through religious conversion and expansion of international commerce maintained that the main conflicts in the region were due to tribal hostility.\n\nThe genocide and mass murder committed in the Congo paved the road for a century of mass slaughter throughout Africa, with the Herero and Namaqua Genocide in the German protectorate of Namibia serving as the dress rehearsal for the Holocaust during the Second World War, in which Nazi Germany's annihilation of six million European Jews finally brought the issue of genocide to the fore front of international attention.\n\nIn October 1996, during the Clinton administration, The U.S. government established the African Crisis Response Initiative (ACRI) force, to enable timely response to humanitarian crises and empower peacekeeping missions on the African continent.\n\nThe ACRI's immediate objective was to increase the number of African states with effective response capability for peace keeping and humanitarian relief challenges, thereby improving stability and peace within their own borders and their sub-regions\nThe pressing reason for establishing the ACRI at the time had been the imminent possibility of a major genocide in Burundi, similar to the ethnic cleansing which had taken place in 1994 in Rwanda. However, once the ACRI was formed, these murders continued yet the force never officially intervened. Until its replacement by ACOTA by the ACRI in 2004 and despite ongoing mass murders occurring in the Darfur province of the Sudan, the U.S. government never deployed the ACRI forces to put pause to genocide in Africa, despite the ACRI’s founding\narticles, which call for humanitarian intervention in Africa no action was taken.\n\nThe harrowing losses of the U.S. military in Somalia were instrumental in the creation of the ACRI. In 1992, following the fall of the Siad Barre regime, the U.S. opted for a military intervention which it named Restore Hope but the operation soon escalated when the focus shifted from humanitarian aid to an attempt at restructuring Somalia’s government. By 1993 following the Battle of Mogadishu (1993), portrayed in the book and movie Black Hawk Down, the mission in Somalia was considered a failure. The Clinton administration was criticised for the operation's outcome, primarily due to the decision to abandon the region before completing the operation's humanitarian and security objectives, and for their failure to recognize the threat Al-Qaida elements posed in Somalia as well as to U.S. security interests at home.\n\nThis off-shot was that the U.S. State Department pressured the UN against intervening in the 1994 Rwandan Genocide Even as the graphic violence dominated the world press, the U.S. government was refusing to acknowledge that a genocide had taken place.\nAfrican leaders including South African President Nelson Mandela considered the formation of the ACRI as a cynical attempt by the U.S. to improve its image following the Rwandan Genocide. The United States which had been willing to mobilize the United Nations to stop ethnic cleansing in European Bosnia has ensured that the UN did not send troops to end the Rwandan genocide in 1994.\n\nThe Organization of African Unity (OAU) convened a panel of experts to investigate the genocide in Rwanda. They concluded that during the civil war, genocide had occurred, and pointed to the tolerance for genocidal violence committed by African leaders. By naming their report \"Rwanda: The Preventable Genocide\", the panel pointed to the United States and UN as responsible for this tragedy. Regional leaders such as Michel Micombero of Burundi, Idi Amin of Uganda, Emperor Bokassa of the Central African Republic and Mobutu of Zaire directly and indirectly contributed to the commencement war and genocide by taking a stance of indifference toward state-implemented criminal recommendation which had exploited myths of Tutsi and Hutu origins.\n\nACOTA's 25 USA partners included Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda and Zambia.\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates public domain text from US government websites.\"\n"}
{"id": "11156887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11156887", "title": "Arizona Association of Counties", "text": "Arizona Association of Counties\n\nThe Arizona Association of Counties (AACo) was established in 1968 as a member association for all elected officials of Arizona's 15 counties. AACo represents each Arizona county and its elected officials by serving as a liaison to the Arizona State Legislature, United States Congress, other governmental agencies, the media and the public. AACo also sponsors various educational programs and renders professional services for the benefit of its membership and county government.\n\nAACo is headed by a Board of Directors consisting of five officers elected from the membership at large, one representative from each county, and one representative of each elected county office.\n\nThe following organizations are affiliated with the Arizona Association of Counties:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3364292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3364292", "title": "Armed Forces Movement", "text": "Armed Forces Movement\n\nThe Armed Forces Movement (; MFA) was an organisation of lower-ranked left-leaning officers in the Portuguese Armed Forces. It was responsible for the Carnation Revolution of 25 April 1974, a military coup in Lisbon that ended the corporatist New State regime () in Portugal, the Portuguese Colonial War and led to the independence of the Portuguese overseas territories. The MFA instated the National Salvation Junta () which functioned between 1974 and 1976, following a communiqué of its president, António de Spínola, at 1:30 a.m. on 26 April 1974.\n\nThe military-led coup can be described as the necessary means of bringing back democracy to Portugal, ending the unpopular Colonial War where thousands of Portuguese soldiers had been commissioned into military service, and replacing the authoritarian \"Estado Novo\" (New State) regime and its secret police which repressed elemental civil liberties and political freedoms. In addition, academics have published works theorizing that the efforts made by the MFA were not in the strict interest of the people of Portugal or its Overseas Provinces, since the movement was initiated not as an attempt to liberate Portugal from the authoritarian Estado Novo regime, but as an attempt of rebellion against the new Military Laws that were to be presented the next year (Decree Law: \"Decretos-Leis n.os 353, de 13 de Julho de 1973, e 409, de 20 de Agosto\"). The Revolution and the whole movement were a way to work against Laws that would reduce military costs and would reformulate the whole Portuguese Military Branch. Younger military academy graduates resented a program introduced by Marcello Caetano whereby militia officers who completed a brief training program and had served in the overseas territories' defensive campaigns, could be commissioned at the same rank as military academy graduates. Caetano's Portuguese Government had begun the program (which included several other reforms) in order to increase the number of officials employed against the African insurgencies, and at the same time cut down military costs to alleviate an already overburdened government budget.\n\nThe MFA developed in the early 1970s as a movement of Captains (\"movimento dos capitães\"), young officers who had been involved in the Colonial War against the separatist movements in the African overseas provinces of Angola, Mozambique, and Portuguese Guinea. What motivated the 'Captains' was, essentially, a desire for back wages and the freedom until then denied to the Portuguese people and the dissatisfaction with the policies followed by the government in relation to the Colonial War and Military Law. The principal aims of the MFA were the immediate completion of the Portuguese Colonial War, retreat from Portuguese Africa, establish free elections and the abolition of the secret police, the PIDE/DGS. The revolution was planned by Vasco Lourenço, Vasco Gonçalves and Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho the chief strategist who directed operations. Salgueiro Maia commanded the troops deployed from the School of Cavalry at Santarém. Most of the officers had leftist sympathies and connections to the Portuguese Communist Party. After a failed initial attempt in March 1974 the coup took place on the morning of 25 April. Within a few hours Lisbon was completely occupied by troops loyal to the MFA. Prime Minister Marcello Caetano handed over power to General António de Spínola. As a consequence of 25 April 1974 the MFA mobilised the army and announced the three 'Ds: Democratisation, Decolonisation and Development.\n\nThe systematic demolition of the old order was inaugurated by the MFA-led \"Junta de Salvação Nacional\". As the pro-communist inspiration of the \"Junta\" was becoming increasingly evident, and far-left factions were taking the leading edge of the revolution, the process was halted by the coup of 25 November 1975. This period of social and political unrest which ensued after the 25 April military coup, is known as PREC (Processo Revolucionário Em Curso), where leftist and rightist factions struggled for supremacy within the Portuguese society and political institutions. The moderates eventually won and this prevented post-revolutionary Portugal from becoming a communist or right wing-ruled regime. Finally, the Portuguese legislative election, 1976 took place on 25 April, exactly one year after the previous election, and two years after the Carnation Revolution. These elections could be said to be the definitive end of a period of revolution. Moderate democratic parties received most of the vote. Revolutionary achievements were not discarded, however. The constitution pledged the country to realize socialism. Furthermore, the constitution declared the extensive nationalizations and land seizures of 1975 irreversible (many would be ruled illegal some years later). The military supported these commitments through a pact with the main political parties that guaranteed its guardian rights over the new democracy for four more years.\n\n"}
{"id": "3818828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3818828", "title": "Australian ufology", "text": "Australian ufology\n\nAustralian ufology refers to a historical series of Australian events and or activities pertaining to government departments, civilian groups or individual Australians, which centre on or around the study of Unidentified Flying Object (UFO) reports, sightings, encounters and other related phenomena, known as ufology within the Australian context before 1984.\n\nEarly reports about UFOs in and around Australia date back prior to 1947. However, the Kenneth Arnold case (June 1947) and the Roswell UFO incident (July 1947) became international press items and appeared in Australian newspapers.\n\nThe first gathering of UFO enthusiasts occurred in Melbourne in March 1949 at the Federal Government's newly established Aeronautical Research Laboratory (ARL). The minutes of the non-government meeting show an attendance of 23 enthusiasts from various state and local groups such as the British Interplanetary Society, Royal Aeronautical Society (RAS), Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation (CAC), Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) and the Army Research Establishment. By May 1949, this gathering of enthusiasts became known as Aeronautical & Meteorological Phenomena Research (AMPR) led by Brian Boyle and Jack Seers. AMPR started to list and research UFO stories and produced a small quarterly publication called \"Interplanetary Saucer\".\n\nAMPR's workload increased as the world ran into its next major sightings flap. In 1951 AMPR became Aeronautics & Phenomena Research Victoria (APRV).\n\nIn May 1952, R. M. Seymour, Superintendent of the Federal Civil Aviation Department, Air Traffic Control Branch Melbourne, reported that Australian Intelligence officers had refused his Department permission to investigate flying saucer reports on the grounds that UFOs were \"security matters\".\n\nIn July 1952, Edgar Jarrold founded the Australian Flying Saucer Bureau (AFSB) in Sydney. Its headquarters were in Fairfield. AFSB began publishing the \"Australian Flying Saucer Magazine\" in May 1953.\n\nAt some point, the APRV made contact with Jarrold and agreed that the AFSB and APRV would assist each other when possible. The APRV nominated John. M. Anderson as their AFSB liaison on the condition that his appointment was seen only as being neutral, and there would be no branch affiliation with AFSB. Apparently Jarrold was seen by APRV as a secretive \"loose gun\" but both groups maintained an average working relationship.\n\nAMPR decided on 6 February 1953 to form an auxiliary group called the Australian Flying Saucer Investigating Committee (AFSIC) in partnership with the Astronomical Society of Victoria (ASV).\n\nSuch was the interest in UFOs during the period that on 20 November 1953, Alexander Downer, the member for the Federal Division of Angas, enquired during Question Time in the House of Representatives about whether the RAAF was investigating the UFO phenomenon. The then Minister for Air, William McMahon (later Prime Minister) replied that the saucers were a problem \"more for psychologists than for defence authorities\".\n\nIn July 1954, AFSIC released a study of 55 sightings.\nThe flying saucer topic came under intense criticism. Public support for the continuation of investigation into the UFO phenomenon was driven by newspaper coverage of the 1954 sightings. Then-Federal Minister for External Affairs and Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Richard Casey wrote a letter to \"The Advertiser\" newspaper (Adelaide) which was published on 30 January 1954. The clipping included this:\n\nBaron Casey was a member of APRV. His time as Minister in charge of the CSIRO and as Minister for External Affairs enabled him to act as a conduit between governmental research, the public, and public enthusiast clubs. Casey’s curiosity on the subject related to UFOs remained with him until his death in June 1976.\n\nIn March 1954 Jarrold was contacted by a South Australian called Fred Stone. Stone agreed to form a branch of Jarrold’s group and so the AFSB (SA) was formed. However, this relationship was fragile and as Jarrold's behavior changed due to stress the relationship deteriorated. The RAAF also noted problems with Jarrold. Sq Leader A.H. Birch, AFC, Air Force Headquarters, Victoria Barracks, Victoria, made note of this in a letter dated 5 April 1955: \"...the discussion during the brief interview I had with Mr. Jarrold mainly concerned the possibility of his Society causing embarrassment to the Royal Australian Air Force.\" \n\nThe RAAF then changed their policy and shifted their help to other organisations within Australia. \"The Director would be happy to extend this service to your Society also.\"\nAfter Sq/Ld Birch meeting with Edger Jarrold's UFO group AFSB collapsed (in February 1955), in just under four years, Jarrold departed the active UFO scene for good, only to appear on rare occasions.\n\nAfter this, a new state group emerged. The most prominent and first to re-build was under the directorship of Fred Stone, who formed the Australian Flying Saucer Research Society (AFSRS) based in Adelaide, South Australia in February 1955. Stone also saw a chance to become the governing body of all Australian Ufology. He asked APRV to come under his plan; they rejected the concept. However, APRV agreed to extend the same relationship they extended to Jarrold's group with John. M. Anderson as their contact. This arrangement was agreed to and APRV supplied a list of contacts for Stone on possible branch organisers. Stone's plan was to form three new state groups (Victoria, NSW, and Queensland) under his control. With a new members list Stone set his plan into motion. Although each new group developed due to individuals within these groups, in the end Stone had little input into the other two state groups' structure. His concept worked at first but soon ran into administration problems due to distance between states and distant lines of communication.\n\nIn April 1956 to deal with an increase in reports the Aeronautics & Phenomena Research Victoria (APRV) changed their structure and name to Phenomena Research Victoria (PRV).\n\nIn November 1957 an upwelling of public interest produced the formation of new groups around Australia. The majority of these new state groups did not accept Fred Stone's 1955 plan; those who accepted it only lasted one year before they decided to operate under their own administration. In late 1957 a new group started in Sydney called the Northern Suburbs Flying Saucer Research Association (NSFSRA), established under Mr & Mrs D. Moore.\n\nQueensland members called for an independent structure and went their own way. They formed the Queensland Flying Saucer Research Bureau (QFSRB), now known as UFO Research Queensland (UFORQld), formed under Charles Middleborough in 1956 and with Stan Seers from 1957. These new groups were infiltrated and members came under the watchful eye of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), as seen in a report dated 4 August 1959. Dossiers and comments on Stan Seers and QFSRB members were produced for the ASIO Regional Director.\n\nHowever, in Victoria the Australian Flying Saucer Research Society (Victorian Branch) (AFSRS Vic), now known as the Victorian UFO Research Society (VUFORS), under Peter E. Norris LL.B and John Pinkney, was formed on 17 February 1957 at Melbourne University. In the first months of 1957 it was a branch of the Australian Flying Saucer Research Society (AFSRS) but later that year it also became independent and was re-organised as the Victorian Flying Saucer Research Society (VFSRS).\n\nAt this time the Australian Flying Saucer Research Society (NSW Branch) (AFSRS NSW) was formed. This branch followed Victoria's lead and decided to become independent from Fred Stone's South Australia group AFSRS. The NSW membership decided to again change their structure and name and thus became the UFO Investigation Centre (UFOIC) under Dr. W.P. Clifford 1957.\n\nUFOIC's start was overshadowed by a large, more active Sydney group, the Northern Suburbs Flying Saucer Research Association. The two Sydney groups competed for members and soon the relationship between the two broke down. NSFSRA became the central NSW group, primarily due to their public support and hosting of George Adamski on his 1959 Australian visit, organised by Victorian and Queensland Groups. Adamski held his Sydney lecture at Adyar Hall on 27 February 1959. Adamski's visit resulted in UFOIC membership falling away dramatically until it was basically a small, close-knit group of enthusiasts. So bitter was the dispute, UFOIC President Dr. Greenwell resigned in disgust; this opened the position to Dr Miran Lindtner who became president in March 1959. The damage had been done and the Sydney experience scared the NSW UFO community.\n\nThe Australian space industry was in full swing and slowly, research facilities that were based in Victoria moved to South Australia and the Woomera Rocket Range. These departmental changes started to affect the administration and membership of PRV. To keep up with the changing world, in 1961, the old AMPR again changed their structure and name from Phenomena Research Victoria (PRV) to Phenomena Research Australia (PRA).\n\nOn 27 February 1965, in the country town of Ballarat, Victoria, Australia held its first UFO group congregation. The conference was arranged by W. Howard Sloane, of the Ballarat Astronomical Society. The RAAF was represented by B.G. Roberts, a senior research scientist with the Operational Research Office (ORO), Department of Air, Canberra and two RAAF officers to look after a display. Air Marshal Sir George Jones (who had an interest in UFOs) also attended. Keynote speakers, including the Rev. William Gill and Charles Brew, gave accounts of their very public UFO experiences. At the conference, a new public group structure was named Commonwealth Aerial Phenomena Investigation Organisation (CAPIO). The assembly voted it into existence, and out of proceedings lawyer Peter E. Norris LL.B (Melb) became CAPIO's first President, under the patronage of Air Marshal Sir George Jones. \n\nOctober 1965, after setup delays, the Tasmania UFO Investigation Centre (TUFOIC) was founded under Keith Roberts and Paul Jackson.\n\nIn 1966, a new group based at Woomera was set up called the Scientific Technical and Astronomical Research Society. This group of scientific and technical personnel collected UFO reports from the Woomera rocket range and local area. With the demise of the British and Australian rocket program, the group was disbanded in 1968.\n\nOn 12 October 1966, the Department of Air wrote to the CSIRO advising that \"Sighting of Unidentified Flying Objects have during recent months been receiving considerable publicity... it is important that the system of investigation should make the best use of resources available in Australia.\" The DOA invited the CSIRO to comment on specific UFO cases to be sent to them by the RAAF. The minutes of the 92nd meeting of the CSIRO executive committee on 25 October 1966 (See para 10 revealed that the CSIRO agreed to the DOA’s request. They responded on 7 November 1966, \"The organisation is quite happy to assist in this way... and to provide you with comments.\"\n\nFor years, there was a general underground friction or competitiveness between groups, focused primary on Victorian groups. Norris and his group VFSRS pressed the need for an active government research input and created the linking opportunities with various government bodies for this process. A document to ASIO quotes AFSRS President Fred Stone as lacking trust in the Victorian group and reported that they were associated with a Sydney UFO Group that was controlled by people with \"Pink\" tendencies. \n\nBy 1963, the South Australian group was finished, which led to a push from Sydney to take control of the state group's magazine. On 23 February 1967, UFOIC V/Pres Mr. Harry O’Brian made an application for copyright on the state group's magazine \"Australian Flying Saucer Review\". Victoria and Queensland protested, the application failed, and VFSRS closed the door on Sydney. UFOIC continued publishing a newsletter from 1964 until late 1979.\n\nIn 1968, the Victorian Flying Saucer Research Society (VFSRS) was re-organised and its name was again altered - this time to the Victorian U.F.O. Research Society (VUFORS).\n\nOn 26 June 1968, in a letter from the Australian Governments Department of External Affairs to the Secretary Prime Minister's Department, the following policy observations are recorded: \"...the history of this subject reveals that the more time and effort that is spent by experienced scientists in investigating the smaller becomes the residue of unexplained phenomena... in spite of these difficulties the Australian Government continue to keep records of \"sighting\" and associated phenomena reported within Australian and associated territories.\" \n\nBy 1969, Phenomena Research Australia (PRA) changed their policy and opened limited membership to the general public with a new newsletter called \"UFO And Phenomena\".\n\nIn late 1970, Tasmania UFO Investigation Centre (TUFOIC) produced the \"Tasmanian UFO Report\", later \"TUFOIC Newsletter\", a magazine that covered 86 issues (1970 to 1999).\n\nOn 30 October 1971, a symposium was held in Adelaide. The symposium, on UFOs, was organised by the SA Division of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nVictorian groups VUFORS and PRA invited Dr. J. Allen Hynek to visit Australia. He accepted the invitation and in 1973 arrived in Australia, spending four days in Melbourne, followed by short stops in Sydney, ACT, Brisbane and Papua New Guinea. While in Victoria, Dr. Hynek also met with Rev. William Gill, who was involved in the famous \"close encounters of the third kind\" case that occurred in the Anglican mission village at Boianai, Papua, New Guinea. He also journeyed to Papua, which enabled him to undertake a detailed on site investigation into this famous case. Victorian members of VUFORS and PRA arranged that, during his stay in the ACT, he was able to talk with Shamus O'Farrell, discussing O'Farrell's famous 1954 Sea Fury incident.\n\nIn 1974, Harry Griesberg and David Seargent established the Australian Co-ordination Section (ACOS) of the US-based Center for UFO Studies (CUFOS). This followed the 1973 visit to Australia of Dr J. Allen Hynek, who requested that Australian ufologists forward copies of interesting Australian sighting reports to CUFOS in the US.\nIn 1978, VUFORS changed direction following the resignation of Peter Norris. A new executive was placed in control, ensuring the continuing prosperity of VUFORS. By 1978 VUFORS had the largest membership of any UFO organisation in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nAlthough the UFO files were available to Defence personnel and Civilians Defence personnel for years, these files remained closed to outside researchers. In October 1979, extensively through the efforts of VUFORS researchers and Fl/Lt Brett Biddington (later Group Captain - RAAF), the RAAF invited Victorian researchers to visit the Intelligence Cell at RAAF Headquarters Support Command, Victoria Barracks, Victoria, to view the majority files collection and copy what they wished. This was a significant 'turn around' by the Defence Force, but it was the start of a period of remarkable co-operation between government departments and civilian groups. It was not until 1981 that another change in policy was instigated. A selection of general UFO files could be sent to Defence HQ, Russell Office, Canberra, when requested. The limited selection became open to other civilians for research after being vetted by a second controlling officer, but after their inspection they were returned to the Victorian collection.\n\nBy 1980, ACOS became the Australian Centre for UFO Studies (ACUFOS) by 1985 (to this day) under the control of Dr Martin Gottschall. UFO Research Australia (UFORA) was formed by Vladimir and Pony Godic. Their first newsletter was published in January 1980 in South Australia.\nThe structure of Australian Government is in three tiers. The lowest level is Local Council, above that is the State Government and over these sits the Federal Government. Throughout the modern era of Australian ufology, departments of the Federal government have played the major role of official inquisitor. The State Government does play a minor role; however, archival evidence reveals that when a State body gets involved their primary object is to pass the case up to the Federal sphere.\n\nRAAF dealt with more than 400 between 1950 and 1959 and over 1,300 reports between 1960 and 1980. The Department of Air produced Unusual Aerial Sightings (UAS) lists for the public. Three such examples are:\n\nThese above samples lists are from the West Australian, National Archives of Australia (NAA) files. However, it is known that there are over 10,000 files in over 130 folders on the topic of UFOs or flying saucers located within the NAA 60 million file collection. After 1980, Government UFO reports that were in external departments were culled and then scattered throughout Australia to NAA storage areas, away from their original central point in Victoria.\n\nArchival documents show the following main players in UFO case research or information collection. The list may not show the upper administration levels of the departments, just the units that were involved with UFO case studies.\n\n\nFrom 1930 to 1959, the majority collection of Defence UFO files were held at HQ Southern Air, G Block, Albert Part Barracks, Melbourne, with Army Intelligence. After 1959, the files were moved to RAAF Headquarters, Support Command, Victoria Barracks, Victoria Intelligence Cell, within the main building. These case files were controlled by the Australian Army through the Australian Army Intelligence Corps staff within the Australian Intelligence system, and they played a principal role in the field investigation of any UFO phenomenon in Australia. However, the Army kept a low public profile but filtered reports for action. All departments' Central Offices were located in Melbourne, Victoria, between 1930 and 1969. Then due to government restructure, a majority of departments moved to Canberra. The main collection of UFO files stayed in Victoria until 1989 later going to Canberra or the National Archives of Australia.\n\nOn 4 January 1994, RAAF Wing Commander Brett Biddington, on behalf of the Chief of Air Staff, informed every civilian UFO groups around Australia that \"The number of reports made to the RAAF in the past decade had declined significantly, which may indicate that organisations such as yours are better known and are meeting the community's requirements.\" Therefore, the RAAF was not going to investigate or collect any more public reports from that date on. Although the RAAF have officially removed themselves from the public report collection phase, there is evidence that internal investigations, by other government departments, still continued under the new title of Unusual Aerial Phenomena (UAP) or Unusual Aerial Sightings (UAS). Called the \"1996 - Defence Instructions (General) ADMIN 55-1\", this 1996 Department of Defence (DOD) policy document better known as 'ADMIN 55-1' concerns UAS policy is still used.\n\nFor further information on UFO and the Australian Government, files and case reports from 1950 to 1984, search the National Archives of Australia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2492621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2492621", "title": "Bergie", "text": "Bergie\n\nBergie is a term used for a subsection of homeless people in Cape Town, South Africa. The word originates from the Afrikaans \"berg\" meaning \"mountain\" – the term originally referred to the homeless people who sheltered in the forests of the slopes of Table Mountain. The synonymous term stroller typically refers to street children living a bergie lifestyle.\n\nThey are vagrants and scavengers, sometimes begging, performing odd jobs or working as informal car guards for tips. Most of them are Cape Coloureds who speak Afrikaans mixed with a few English terms, and are known for their sense of humour, vulgar language and alcohol consumption.\n\nTheir lifestyle is portrayed in the 1987 novel \"The Strollers\" by Lesley Beake, the 1998 documentary film \"Pavement Aristocrats: The Bergies of Cape Town\" by François Verster, and the play \"Suip!\", a black comedy co-written and directed by Heinrich Reisenhofer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2166873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2166873", "title": "Campaign finance in the United States", "text": "Campaign finance in the United States\n\nCampaign finance in the United States is the financing of electoral campaigns at the federal, state, and local levels. At the federal level, campaign finance law is enacted by Congress and enforced by the Federal Election Commission (FEC), an independent federal agency. Although most campaign spending is privately financed, public financing is available for qualifying candidates for President of the United States during both the primaries and the general election. Eligibility requirements must be fulfilled to qualify for a government subsidy, and those that do accept government funding are usually subject to spending limits on money.\n\nRaces for non-federal offices are governed by state and local law. Over half the states allow some level of corporate and union contributions. Some states have limits on contributions from individuals that are lower than the national limits, while four states (Missouri, Oregon, Utah and Virginia) have no limits at all. This article deals primarily with campaigns for federal office.\n\nIn 2008, candidates for office, political parties, and independent groups spent a total of $5.3 billion on federal elections. The amount spent on the presidential race alone was $2.4 billion, and over $1 billion of that was spent by the campaigns of the two major candidates: Barack Obama spent $730 million in his election campaign, and John McCain spent $333 million. The total amount spent by Obama and McCain was a record at the time.\n\nIn the 2010 midterm election cycle, candidates for office, political parties, and independent groups spent a total of $3.6 billion on federal elections. The average winner of a seat in the House of Representatives spent $1.4 million on his or her campaign. The average winner of a Senate seat spent $9.8 million.\n\nThe money for campaigns for federal office comes from four broad categories of sources: (1) small individual contributors (individuals who contribute $200 or less), (2) large individual contributors (individuals who contribute more than $200), (3) political action committees, and (4) self-financing (the candidate's own money). In the 2010 Congressional races, the sources of campaign contributions broke down as follows: c/o 2k18\n\nFederal law does not allow Corporations and labor unions to donate money directly to candidates (\"hard money\") or national party committees. It also limits how much money (a) individuals and (b) organizations involved in political action may contribute to political campaigns, political parties, and other FEC-regulated organizations.\n\nTable footnotes\n\nOne consequence of the limitation upon personal contributions from any one individual is that campaigns seek out \"bundlers\"—people who can gather contributions from many individuals in an organization or community and present the sum to the campaign. Campaigns often recognize these bundlers with honorary titles and, in some cases, exclusive events featuring the candidate.\n\nAlthough bundling existed in various forms since the enactment of the FECA, bundling became organized in a more structured way in the 2000s, spearheaded by the \"Bush Pioneers\" for George W. Bush's 2000 and 2004 presidential campaigns. During the 2008 campaign the six leading primary candidates (three Democratic, three Republican) had listed a total of nearly two thousand bundlers.\n\nLobbyists often assist congressional campaign finance by arranging fundraisers, assembling PACs, and seeking donations from other clients. Many lobbyists become campaign treasurers and fundraisers for congresspersons.\n\nContributions made directly to a specific candidate are called \"hard money\" and those made to parties and committees are called \"soft money\". Soft money constitutes an alternative form of financing campaigns that emerged in the last years. It \"derives from a major loophole in federal campaign financing and spending law that exempts from regulation those contributions made for party building in general rather than for specific candidates\". There are no limits on soft money and some examples are donations for stickers, posters, and television and radio spots supporting a particular party platform or idea but not a concrete candidate. For the amounts of soft money contributed in recent years and the legislation that enabled this, see the section on the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act.\n\nOrganizations other than individual candidates and their campaigns also contribute to election spending. Campaign expenditures made by groups not associated with, and independent of, a candidate's campaign are known as \"independent expenditures\". In addition to donating money to political campaigns (according to the limits described above), these organizations can spend money directly to influence elections.\n\nFederal law allows for multiple types of political action committees (PACs).\n\n501(c)(4) organizations are defined by the IRS as \"social welfare\" organizations. Unlike 501(c)(3) charitable organizations, they may also participate in political campaigns and elections, as long as the organization's \"primary purpose\" is the promotion of social welfare and not political advocacy. 501(c)(4) organizations are not required to disclose their donors publicly. This aspect of the law has led to extensive use of 501(c)(4) organizations in raising and donating money for political activity. The NAACP, Planned Parenthood, Sierra Club, and National Rifle Association are well known examples of organizations that operate 501(c)(4) social welfare organizations that engage in political advocacy.\n\nPACs and Super PACs are required by law to disclose all of their donors of over $200. However, 501(c)(4) organizations are only required to disclose their spending on political activity, and not information on their donors unless those donors give for the express purpose of political advocacy. The use of 501(c)(4) organizations for political advocacy has contributed to the sharp rise in outside spending that occurs without disclosure of donors. In 2006 just a bit more than 1% of political spending other than that done by political parties and campaign committees did not disclose donors, but by 2010 it had risen to 44%.\nAs of August 2012, two of the biggest 501(c)(4) groups (Crossroads GPS and Americans for Prosperity) had put more money into the presidential campaign than all the super PACs combined, according to ProPublica.\n\nTraditionally 501(c)(4) organizations have been civic leagues and other corporations operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare, or local associations of employees with membership limited to a designated company or people in a particular municipality or neighborhood, and with net earnings devoted exclusively to charitable, educational, or recreational purposes.\n\nA 527 organization or 527 group is a type of American tax-exempt organization named after \"Section 527\" of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Technically, almost all political committees, including state, local, and federal candidate committees, traditional political action committees, \"Super PACs\", and political parties are \"527s.\" However, in common practice the term is usually applied only to such organizations that are not regulated under state or federal campaign finance laws because they do not \"expressly advocate\" for the election or defeat of a candidate or party. When operated within the law, there are no upper limits on contributions to 527s and no restrictions on who may contribute. There are no spending limits imposed on these organizations. However, they must register with the IRS, publicly disclose their donors and file periodic reports of contributions and expenditures.\n\nPolitical party committees may contribute funds directly to candidates, subject to the contribution limits listed above. National and state party committees may make additional \"coordinated expenditures,\" subject to limits, to help their nominees in general elections. National party committees may also make unlimited \"independent expenditures\" to support or oppose federal candidates. However, since 2002, national parties have been prohibited from accepting any funds outside the limits established for elections in the FECA.\n\nCurrent campaign finance law at the federal level requires candidate committees, party committees, and PACs to file periodic reports disclosing the money they raise and spend. Federal candidate committees must identify, for example, all PACs and party committees that give them contributions, and they must provide the names, occupations, employers and addresses of all individuals who give them more than $200 in an election cycle. Additionally, they must disclose expenditures to any individual or vendor. The Federal Election Commission maintains this database and publishes the information about campaigns and donors on its website. (Similar reporting requirements exist in many states for state and local candidates and for PACs and party committees.)\n\nVarious organizations, including the Center for Responsive Politics, aggregate data on political contributions to provide insight into the influence of various groups. In August 2014, a new smartphone app called \"Buypartisan\" was released to allow consumers to scan the barcodes of items in grocery stores and see where that corporation and its leaders directed their political contributions.\n\nNamed for its sponsor, South Carolina Senator Ben Tillman, the Tillman Act of 1907 prohibited corporations and nationally chartered (interstate) banks from making direct financial contributions to federal candidates. However, weak enforcement mechanisms made the Act ineffective. Disclosure requirements and spending limits for House and Senate candidates followed in 1910 and 1911. General contribution limits were enacted in the Federal Corrupt Practices Act (1925). An amendment to the Hatch Act of 1939 set an annual ceiling of $3 million for political parties' campaign expenditures and $5,000 for individual campaign contributions. The Smith-Connally Act (1943) and Taft-Hartley Act (1947) extended the corporate ban to labor unions.\n\nIn 1971, Congress passed the Federal Election Campaign Act (FECA), instituting various campaign finance disclosure requirements for federal candidates (those running for the House, the Senate, the President and the Vice President), political parties, and political action committees. In 1974, Congress passed amendments to the FECA establishing a comprehensive system of regulation and enforcement, including public financing of presidential campaigns and the creation of a central enforcement agency, the Federal Election Commission. The new regulations included limits on campaign finance, including caps on (1) individual contributions to candidates, (2) contributions to candidates by “political committees” (commonly known as Political Action Committees, or PACs), (3) total campaign expenditures, and (4) independent expenditures by individuals and groups \"relative to a clearly identified candidate.\"\n\nThe constitutionality of the FECA was challenged in the U.S. Supreme Court case \"Buckley v. Valeo\" (1976). In \"Buckley\", the Court upheld the Act's limits on individual contributions, as well as the disclosure and reporting provisions and the public financing scheme. The Court held that limitations on donations to candidates were constitutional because of the compelling state interest in preventing corruption or the appearance of corruption. However, the Court also held that caps on the amount campaigns could spend and caps on independent expenditures were an unconstitutional abridgment of free speech under the First Amendment. In addition, \"Buckley\" also held that the disclosure and reporting requirements of FECA could only apply to expenditures authorized or requested by a candidate or expenditures for communications that “expressly advocate the election or defeat of a clearly identified candidate.”\n\nUnder FECA, corporations, unions, and individuals could contribute unlimited \"nonfederal money\"—also known as \"soft money\"—to political parties for activities intended to influence state or local elections. In a series of advisory opinions between 1977 and 1995, the FEC ruled that political parties could fund \"mixed-purpose\" activities—including get-out-the-vote drives and generic party advertising—in part with soft money, and that parties could also use soft money to defray the costs of \"legislative advocacy media advertisements,\" even if the ads mentioned the name of a federal candidate, so long as they did not expressly advocate the candidate's election or defeat. Furthermore, in 1996, the Supreme Court decided \"Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Committee v. FEC\", in which the Court ruled that Congress could not restrict the total amount of \"independent expenditures\" made by a political party without coordination with a candidate, invalidating a FECA provision that restricted how much a political party could spend in connection with a particular candidate. As a result of these rulings, soft money effectively enabled parties and candidates to circumvent FECA's limitations on federal election campaign contributions.\n\nSoft money raised from 1993 to 2002\nIn 2002, Congress further attempted to reform federal campaign financing with the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act. The BCRA, sometimes called the \"McCain-Feingold\" Act, amended the FECA in several respects. First, it prohibited national political party committees from soliciting or spending any soft money and prohibited state and local party committees from using soft money for activities that affect federal elections. Second, it prohibited the use of corporate and union treasury funds to pay for \"electioneering communications\"—broadcast or cable advertisements clearly identifying a federal candidate—within 30 days of a primary or 60 days of a general election. The law also included a \"stand by your ad\" provision requiring candidates to appear in campaign advertisements and claim responsibility for the ad (most commonly with a phrase similar to \"I'm John Smith and I approve this message.\")\n\nThis law was also challenged in the Supreme Court, but its core provisions were upheld by the Supreme Court in \"McConnell v. Federal Election Commission\". However, in \"McConnell\", the Court also interpreted the “electioneering communications” provisions of BCRA to exempt “nonprofit corporations that [1] were formed for the sole purpose of promoting political ideas, [2] did not engage in business activities, and [3] did not accept contributions from for-profit corporations or labor unions.” Thus, non-business, non-profit political organizations could run electioneering advertisements provided that they did not accept corporate or union donations.\n\nFurthermore, the BCRA did not regulate \"527 organizations\" (named for the section of the tax code under which they operate). These nonprofit organizations are not regulated by the FEC, provided that they do not coordinate with candidates or expressly advocate for the election or defeat of a specific candidate. After the passage of the BCRA, many of the soft money-funded activities previously undertaken by political parties were taken over by various 527 groups, which funded many issue ads in the 2004 presidential election. The heavy spending of key 527 groups to attack presidential candidates brought complaints to the Federal Elections Commission of illegal coordination between the groups and rival political campaigns. (In 2006 and 2007 the FEC fined a number of organizations, including MoveOn.org and Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, for violations arising from the 2004 campaign. The FEC's rationale was that these groups had specifically advocated the election or defeat of candidates, thus making them subject to federal regulation and its limits on contributions to the organizations.)\n\nThe reach of the “electioneering communications” provisions of the BCRA was also limited in the 2007 Supreme Court ruling \"Federal Election Commission v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc.\" In \"Wisconsin Right to Life\", the Supreme Court stated that the restrictions on “electioneering communications” applied only to advertisements that “can only reasonably be viewed as advocating or opposing a candidate.” Thus, if there was any reasonable way to view an advertisement as an “issue ad,” it would be exempt from the BCRA’s restrictions.\n\nCampaign finance law in the United States changed drastically in the wake of two 2010 judicial opinions: the Supreme Court’s decision in \"Citizens United v. FEC\" and the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals decision in \"SpeechNow.org v. FEC\". According to a 2011 Congressional Research Service report, these two decisions constitute “the most fundamental changes to campaign finance law in decades.” \n\n\"Citizens United\" struck down, on free speech grounds, the limits on the ability of organizations that accepted corporate or union money from running electioneering communications. The Court reasoned that the restrictions permitted by \"Buckley\" were justified based on avoiding corruption or the appearance of corruption, and that this rationale did not apply to corporate donations to independent organizations. \"Citizens United\" overruled the 1990 case \"Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce\", in which the Supreme Court upheld the Michigan Campaign Finance Act, which prohibited corporations from using treasury money to support or oppose candidates in elections.\n\nTwo months later, a unanimous nine-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit decided \"SpeechNow\", which relied on \"Citizens United\" to hold that Congress could not limit donations to organizations that only made independent expenditures, that is, expenditures that were “uncoordinated” with a candidate’s campaign. These decisions led to the rise of “independent-expenditure only” PACs, commonly known as “Super PACs.” Super PACs, under \"Citizens United\" and \"SpeechNow\", can raise unlimited funds from individual and corporate donors and use those funds for electioneering advertisements, provided that the Super PAC does not coordinate with a candidate.\n\nOn February 19, 2013, the Supreme Court announced it would hear \"McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission\", a case challenging the limit on how much individuals can donate directly to political parties and federal candidates. On April 2, 2014, the Court announced its opinion and maintained aggregate limits on campaign contributions were unconstitutional under the First Amendment.\n\nIn 1986, several bills were killed in the U.S. Senate by bipartisan maneuvering which did not allow the bills to come up for a vote. The bills would impose strict controls for campaign fund raising. Later in 1988, legislative and legal setbacks on proposals designed to limiting overall campaign spending by candidates were shelved after a Republican filibuster. In addition, a constitutional amendment to override ‘’Buckley’’ failed to get off the ground.\n\nIn 1994, Senate Democrats had more bills blocked by Republicans including a bill setting spending limits and authorizing partial public financing of congressional elections. In 1996, bipartisan legislation for voluntary spending limits which rewarded those who comply, and which banned soft money, was killed by a Republican filibuster.\n\nThe Reform Party, founded by Ross Perot, made campaign finance reform a central issue in its platform, and when Perot ran for president in 1992 and 1996 he strongly argued for it. Oddly enough, most political scientists believe that campaign finance laws hindered Perot's efforts to establish the Reform Party on a permanent basis.\n\nIn 1997, the McCain-Feingold bipartisan bill sought to close soft money and TV advertising expenditures but the legislation was defeated by a Republican filibuster. Several different proposals were made in 1999 by both parties. The Campaign Integrity Act (H.R. 1867) proposed by Asa Hutchinson (R-Arkansas) put a ban on soft money and raised hard money limits. The Citizen Legislature & Political ACT (H.R. 1922) sponsored by Rep. John Doolittle (R-CA) would repeal all federal freedom ACT election contribution limits and expedite and expand disclosure. H.R. 417 Campaign Reform Act Shays-Meehan Bill, sponsored by Christopher Shays (R-CT) and Martin Meehan (D-MA), banned soft money and limited types of campaign advertising.\n\nCampaign finance again became a major issue in the 2000 presidential election, especially with candidates for president, John McCain and Ralph Nader. Organizations in favor of campaign finance reform included many public interest groups, such as Common Cause, Democracy 21, the Campaign Legal Center, and Democracy Matters. Opposition came from a coalition of organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union and the Center for Competitive Politics (both of which argue that campaign finance reform would harm free speech) and the National Rifle Association, National Right to Life Committee, and other organizations.\n\nThe DISCLOSE Act (S. 3628) was proposed in July 2010. The bill would have amended the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to prohibit foreign influence in Federal elections, prohibit government contractors from making expenditures with respect to such elections, and establish additional disclosure requirements with respect to spending in such elections. The bill would also have imposed new donor and contribution disclosure requirements on nearly all organizations that air political ads independently of candidates or the political parties. The legislation would require the sponsor of the ad to appear in it. Because the law already prohibits foreign contributions (2 U.S.C. 441e) and contributions by federal contractors (2 U.S.C. 441c), and requires identifying information on all ads (2 U.S.C. 441d), Republicans were suspicious of the bill – particularly after the primary Senate sponsor, Senate Chuck Schumer (D. N.Y.) stated that the legislation was intended to have a \"deterrence effect\" on speech. Democrats needed at least one Republican to support the measure in order to get the 60 votes to overcome a Republican filibuster, but were unsuccessful.\n\nSeveral groups were formed in response to Citizens United, including Move to Amend, American Promise, and Wolf PAC. Move to Amend was founded in 2009, and have become one of the larger organizations working to reform Campaign Finance. In 2016, American lawyer Jeff Clements, founded American Promise, a newer organization seeking to coordinate some of the effort. These non-profit organizations are all calling for a 28th Amendment to the United States Constitution to overturn the decision, as well as Buckley, and the underlying doctrine equating political spending with free speech. So far, 19 states have called for the amendment, either by legislative resolution or ballot initiative.\n\nIn 2011, a political action committee called Wolf PAC was formed in response to the Citizens United decision. Its goal is to pass an amendment to overturn the decision, along with substantially similar Supreme Court decisions such as \"Buckley v. Valeo\", and to institute a system of public financing for all elections in the United States. Wolf PAC's strategy is to call for an Article V convention to propose this amendment, rather than passing it through Congress, which it views as too corrupt. As of February 2015, four states, California, Vermont, Illinois and New Jersey have passed resolutions calling for such a convention.\n\nIn September 2014, Senate Democrats attempted to campaign for a constitutional amendment that would allow Congress and the states to limit the money raised and spent in election campaigns by outside groups, candidates and others, with a special aim at corporations and similar entities spending money on elections. Such action would, according to Republicans, violate the First Amendment right to free speech.\n\nAt the federal level, public funding is limited to subsidies for presidential campaigns. This includes (1) a \"matching\" program for the first $250 of each individual contribution during the primary campaign, (2) financing the major parties' national nominating conventions, and (3) funding the major party nominees' general election campaigns.\n\nTo receive subsidies in the primary, candidates must qualify by privately raising $5000 each in at least 20 states. During the primaries, in exchange for agreeing to limit his or her spending according to a statutory formula, eligible candidates receive matching payments for the first $250 of each individual contribution (up to half of the spending limit). By refusing matching funds, candidates are free to spend as much money as they can raise privately.\n\nFrom the inception of this program in 1976 through 1992, almost all candidates who could qualify accepted matching funds in the primary. In 1996 Republican Steve Forbes opted out of the program. In 2000, Forbes and George W. Bush opted out. In 2004 Bush and Democrats John Kerry and Howard Dean chose not to take matching funds in the primary. In 2008, Democrats Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, and Republicans John McCain, Rudy Giuliani, Mitt Romney and Ron Paul decided not to take primary matching funds. Republican Tom Tancredo and Democrats Chris Dodd, Joe Biden and John Edwards elected to take public financing.\n\nIn addition to primary matching funds, the public funding program also assists with financing the major parties' (and eligible minor parties') presidential nominating conventions and funding the major party (and eligible minor party) nominees' general election campaigns. The grants for the major parties' conventions and general election nominees are adjusted each Presidential election year to account for increases in the cost of living. In 2012, each major party is entitled to $18.2 million in public funds for their conventions, and the parties' general election nominees are eligible to receive $91.2 million in public funds. If candidates accept public funds, they agree not to raise or spend private funds or to spend more than $50,000 of their personal resources.\n\nNo major party nominee turned down government funds for the general election from 1976, when the program was launched, until Barack Obama did so in 2008. Obama again declined government funds for the 2012 campaign, as did Republican nominee Mitt Romney, setting up the only election since the program's launch in which neither major party nominee accepted federal funding.\n\nEligibility of minor parties for public funds is based on showing in previous elections. The only party other than the Republicans and Democrats to receive government funding in a general election was the Reform Party, which qualified for public funding in 1996 and 2000 on the basis of Ross Perot's strong showing in the 1992 and 1996 elections.\n\nThe presidential public financing system is funded by a $3 tax check-off on individual tax returns (the check off does not increase the filer's taxes, but merely directs $3 of the government's general fund to the presidential fund). The number of taxpayers who use the check off has fallen steadily since the early 1980s, until by 2006 fewer than 8 percent of taxpayers were directing money to the fund, leaving the fund chronically short of cash.\n\nA small number of states and cities have started to use broader programs for public financing of campaigns. One method, which its supporters call Clean Money, Clean Elections, gives each candidate who chooses to participate a fixed amount of money. To qualify for this subsidy, the candidates must collect a specified number of signatures and small (usually $5) contributions. The candidates are not allowed to accept outside donations or to use their own personal money if they receive this public funding. Candidates who choose to raise money privately rather than accept the government subsidy are subject to significant administrative burdens and legal restrictions, with the result that most candidates accept the subsidy. This procedure has been in place in races for all statewide and legislative offices in Arizona and Maine since 2000, where a majority of officials were elected without spending any private contributions on their campaigns. Connecticut passed a Clean Elections law in 2005, along with the cities of Portland, Oregon and Albuquerque, New Mexico.\n\nA 2003 study by GAO found, \"It is too soon to determine the extent to which the goals of Maine’s and Arizona’s public financing programs are being met.\"\n\nThe \"Clean Elections\" movement had several defeats in the 2000s and 2010s. Proposition 89, a California ballot proposition in November 2006, sponsored by the California Nurses Union, that would have provided for public financing of political campaigns and strict contribution limits on corporations, was defeated. In 2008, the non-partisan California Fair Elections Act passed the legislature and Governor Schwarzenegger signed it, but the law did not take effect unless approved by voters in a referendum in 2010. In June 2010, voters soundly rejected the measure, 57% to 43%. A proposal to implement Clean Elections in Alaska was voted down by a two-to-one margin in 2008, and a pilot program in New Jersey was terminated in 2008 amid concern about its constitutionality and that the law was ineffective in accomplishing its goals. In 2010, Portland voters used a referendum to repeal the clean elections law, originally enacted by the city council. In 2006, in \"Randall v. Sorrell\", the Supreme Court held that large parts of Vermont's Clean Elections law were unconstitutional. In 2008, the Supreme Court's decision in \"Davis v. Federal Election Commission\" suggested that a key part of most Clean Election laws—a provision granting extra money (or \"rescue funds\") to participating candidates who are being outspent by non-participating candidates—is unconstitutional. In 2011, in \"Arizona Free Enterprise Club's Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett\", the Supreme Court struck down the matching funds provision of Arizona's law on First Amendment grounds.\n\nMassachusetts has had a hybrid public funding system for statewide offices since 1978. Taxpayers are allowed to contribute $1 to the statewide election fund by checking a box on their annual income taxes. Candidates who agree to spending limits are eligible for money from this fund. Non-participating candidates are required to estimate spending, and this will raise the limit for participating opponents if higher than the agreed-to limit.\n\nA 2016 experimental study in the \"American Journal of Political Science\" found that politicians made themselves more available for meetings with individuals when they believed that the individuals had donated to their campaign. A 2011 study found that \"even after controlling for past contracts and other factors, companies that contributed more money to federal candidates subsequently received more contracts.\" A 2016 study in the \"Journal of Politics\" found that industries overseen by committees decreased their contributions to congresspeople who recently departed from the committees and that they immediately increase their contributions to new members of the committees, which is \"evidence that corporations and business PACs use donations to acquire immediate access and favor—suggesting they at least anticipate that the donations will influence policy.\" Research by University of Chicago political scientist Anthony Fowler and Northwestern University political scientists Haritz Garro and Jörg L. Spenkuch found no evidence that corporations that donated to a candidate received any monetary benefits from the candidate winning election.\n\nThe Center for Responsive Politics reported that \"Candidates with most financial support generally win.\" They supported this with the following:\n\nThey noted, however, that the presidential race appeared to be an exception to the rule that the candidate spending the most money won. Analyses such as that by the Center for Responsive Politics fail to measure causality (correlation does not imply causation). Rather than financial support increasing candidates' chances of winning, it may be that better candidates attract more financial support.\n\nA 2017 study found that \"only a small portion of Americans make campaign donations\" and that both Democratic and Republican donors \"are more ideologically extreme than other partisans, including primary voters. With respect to why individuals contribute, we show that donors appear responsive to their perception of the stakes in the election.\"\n\nAnother 2017 study found that relatively unpopular industries provide larger contributions to candidates. The authors of the study argue that this is because candidates lose voter support when they are associated with unpopular industries and that the industries therefore provide larger contributions to compensate for this loss of support.\n\nMany localities have their own reporting requirements that are not listed here.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "410649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410649", "title": "Caning", "text": "Caning\n\nCaning is a form of corporal punishment consisting of a number of hits (known as \"strokes\" or \"cuts\") with a single cane usually made of rattan, generally applied to the offender's bare or clothed buttocks (see spanking) or hand(s) (on the palm). Caning on the knuckles or shoulders is much less common. Caning can also be applied to the soles of the feet (foot whipping or bastinado). The size and flexibility of the cane and the mode of application, as well as the number of the strokes, vary greatly — from a couple of light strokes with a small cane across the seat of a junior schoolboy's trousers, to 24 very hard, wounding cuts on the bare buttocks with a large, heavy, soaked rattan as a judicial punishment in some Southeast Asian countries.\n\nThe thin cane generally used for corporal punishment is not to be confused with a walking stick, sometimes also called a \"cane\" (especially in American English), but which is thicker and much more rigid, and more likely to be made of stronger wood than of cane.\n\nCaning was a common form of judicial punishment and official school discipline in many parts of the world in the 19th and 20th centuries. Corporal punishment (with a cane or any other implement) has now been outlawed in much, but not all, of Europe. However, caning remains legal in numerous other countries in home, school, religious, judicial or military contexts, and is also in common use in some countries where it is no longer legal.\n\nJudicial caning, administered with a long, heavy rattan and much more severe than the canings given in schools, was/is a feature of some British colonial judicial systems, though the cane was never used judicially in Britain itself (the specified implements there, until abolition in 1948, being the birch and the cat-o'-nine-tails). In some countries caning is still in use in the post-independence era, particularly in Southeast Asia (where it is now being used far more than it was under British rule), and in some African countries.\n\nThe practice is retained, for male offenders only, under the criminal law in Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei. (In Malaysia there is also a separate system of religious courts for Muslims only, which can order a much milder form of caning for women as well as men.) Caning in Indonesia is a recent introduction, in the special case of Aceh, on Sumatra, which since its 2005 autonomy has introduced a form of sharia law for Muslims only (male or female), applying the cane to the clothed upper back of the offender.\n\nAfrican countries still using judicial caning include Botswana, Tanzania, Nigeria (mostly in northern states, but few cases have been reported in southern states) and, for juvenile offenders only, Swaziland and Zimbabwe. Other countries that used it until the late 20th century, generally only for male offenders, included Kenya, Uganda and South Africa, while some Caribbean countries such as Trinidad and Tobago use birching, another punishment in the British tradition, involving the use of a bundle of branches, not a single cane.\n\nIn Singapore, Malaysia and Brunei, healthy males under 50 years of age can be sentenced to a maximum of 24 strokes of the \"rotan\" (rattan) cane on the bare buttocks; the punishment is mandatory for many offences, mostly violent or drug crimes, but also immigration violations, sexual offences and (in Singapore) acts of vandalism. It is also imposed for certain breaches of prison rules. In Aceh caning can be imposed for adultery. The punishment is applied to foreigners and locals alike.\n\nTwo examples of the caning of foreigners which received worldwide media scrutiny are the canings in Singapore in 1994 of Michael P. Fay, an American student who had vandalised several automobiles, and in the United Arab Emirates in 1996 of Sarah Balabagan, a Filipina maid convicted of homicide.\n\nCaning is also used in the Singapore Armed Forces to punish serious offences against military discipline, especially in the case of recalcitrant young conscripts. Unlike judicial caning, this punishment is delivered to the soldier's clothed buttocks. See Caning in Singapore#Military caning.\n\nThe frequency and severity of canings in educational settings have varied greatly, often being determined by the written rules or unwritten traditions of the school. The western educational use of the cane dates principally to the late nineteenth century, gradually replacing birching—effective only if applied to the bare bottom—with a form of punishment more suited to contemporary sensibilities, once it had been discovered that a flexible rattan cane can provide the offender with a substantial degree of pain even when delivered through a layer of clothing.\n\nCaning as a school punishment is strongly associated in the English-speaking world with England, but it was also used in other European countries in earlier times, notably Scandinavia, Germany and the countries of the former Austrian empire.\n\nIn some schools corporal punishment was administered solely by the headmaster, while in others the task was delegated to other teachers. In many English and Commonwealth private schools, authority to punish was also traditionally given to certain senior students (often called prefects). In the early 20th century, such permission for prefects to cane other boys was widespread in British public schools. The perceived advantages of this were promptness of punishment and avoiding bothering the teaching staff with minor disciplinary matters. Canings from prefects took place for a wide variety of failings, including lack of enthusiasm in sport, with the punishment repeated, if necessary, until the younger boy's performance or attitude improved. From at least the late 19th century onwards, prefects had also used canings to enforce youngsters' participation in other character-building aspects of public school life, such as compulsory cold baths in winter.\n\nAnother claimed advantage was that boys who misbehaved would be chastised more effectively by receiving a caning from a prefect than from a teacher, because pupils associate more closely with each other than with teachers, and thus the impact would be better known in the culprit's immediate peergroup. Such systems were not limited to secondary age pupils. From at least the early 1860s onwards, some private preparatory schools relied heavily on \"self-government\" by prefects for even their youngest pupils (around eight years old), with caning the standard punishment for even minor offences. It was regarded as having \"no sense of indignity\" for the recipient of the punishment.\n\nAs early as the 1920s, the tradition of prefects at British public schools repeatedly caning new boys for trivial offences was criticised by psychologists as producing \"a high state of nervous excitement\" in some of the youngsters subjected to it. It was felt that granting untrained and unsupervised older adolescents the power to impose comprehensive thrashings on their younger schoolmates whenever they chose might have adverse psychological effects.\n\nSome British private schools still permitted caning to be administered by prefects in the 1960s, with opportunities for it provided by complex sets of rules on school uniform and behaviour. In 1969, when the question was raised in Parliament, it was thought that relatively few schools still permitted this. By contrast, caning in British state schools in the later 20th century was often, in theory at least, administered by the head teacher only. Canings for primary school age pupils at state schools in this period could be extremely rare; one study found that over an eight-year timespan, one head teacher had only caned two boys in total, but made more frequent use of slippering, while another had caned no pupils at all.\n\nLike their British counterparts, South African private schools also gave prefects free rein to administer canings whenever they felt it appropriate, from at least the late 19th century onwards. South African schools continued to use the cane to emphasise sporting priorities well into the late 20th century, caning boys for commonplace gameplay errors such as being caught offside in an association football match, as well as for poor batting performance in cricket, not applauding their school team's performance sufficiently, missing sport practice sessions, or even \"to build up team spirit\". The use of corporal punishment within the school setting was prohibited by the South African Schools Act of 1996. According to Chapter 2 Section 10 of the act, \"(1) No person may administer corporal punishment at a school to a learner\" and \"(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a sentence, which could be imposed for assault.\"\n\nIn many state secondary schools in England and Wales it was in use, mostly for boys, until 1987, while elsewhere other implements prevailed, such as the Scottish tawse. The cane was generally administered in a formal ceremony to the seat of the trousers, typically with the student bending over a desk or chair. Usually there was a maximum of six strokes (known as \"six of the best\"). Such a caning would typically leave the offender with uncomfortable weals and bruises lasting for many days after the immediate intense pain had worn off. A headmaster's caning of a 13-year-old schoolboy at an English grammar school in 1987—five strokes for poor exam results—left \"severe bruising\", and, according to the family doctor, five separate weals. The headmaster who gave the punishment was cleared of the offence of assault occasioning actual bodily harm, with the judge commenting \"If you get a beating you must expect it to be with force.\"\n\nSchoolgirls were caned much more rarely than boys, and if the punishment was given by a male teacher, nearly always on the palm of the hand. Rarely, girls were caned on the clothed bottom, in which case the punishment would probably be applied by a female teacher.\n\nCaning as a school punishment for boys is still routine in a number of former British territories including Singapore, Malaysia and Zimbabwe. Until recently it had also been common in Australia (now banned in public schools; and abolished in practice (though not strictly in theory) by the vast majority of all independent schools), New Zealand (banned from 1990) and South Africa (banned in public and private schools alike from 1996). In the UK, all corporal punishment in private schools was finally banned in 1999 for England and Wales, 2000 in Scotland, and 2003 in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn Malaysia, although the Education Ordinance 1957 specifically outlaws the caning of girls in school, the caning of girls, usually on the palm of the hand, is still rather common, especially in primary schools but also occasionally in secondary schools, sometimes even for minor mistakes like being unable to answer questions correctly. In November 2007, in response to a perceived increase in indiscipline among female students, the National Seminar on Education Regulations (Student Discipline) passed a resolution recommending allowing the caning of female students at school. The resolution is currently in its consultation process.\n\nThe cane was also used more or less frequently on boy inmates at the British youth reformatories known from 1933 to 1970 as Approved Schools, and rarely for girls in such schools. In Approved schools the cane was applied to the buttocks for boys and to the hands for girls, but after Approved Schools became \"Community Homes with Education\" under the Children and Young Persons Act 1969, girls could be caned on the buttocks. Caning is still used in the equivalent institutions in some countries, such as Singapore and Guyana.\n\nIn 19th-century France it was dubbed \"The English Vice\", probably because of its widespread use in British schools. The regular depiction of caning in British novels about school life from the 19th century onwards, as well as movies such as \"If...\", which includes a dramatic scene of boys caned by prefects, contributed to the French perception of caning as being central to the British educational system. Caning was not unknown for French boys in the 19th century, but they were described as \"extremely sensitive\" to corporal punishment and tended to make a fuss about its imposition.\n\nMember states of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are obliged to \"take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse.\"\n\nAlso known as domestic corporal punishment, parents can cane a child as a punishment for disobedience, which is a common practice in some Asian countries such as Singapore, China, Malaysia, and others. See Caning in Singapore.\n\nCaning with a heavy judicial rattan as used in Singapore, Malaysia and Brunei can leave scars for years if a large number of strokes are inflicted. However, most ordinary canings with a typical light rattan (used at home for punishing children or at school for punishing students), although painful at the time, leave only reddish welts or bruises lasting a few days. Charles Chenevix Trench was caned as a boy at Winchester College in the early 1930s and later said that \"it was, of course, disagreeable, but left no permanent scars on my personality or my person\".\n\nWhen caning was widespread in schools in the United Kingdom, it was perceived that a caning on the hand carried a greater risk of injury than a caning on the buttocks; in 1935 an Exeter schoolboy won £1 in damages (), plus his medical expenses, from a schoolmaster, when the county court decided that an abscess that developed on his hand was the result of a caning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20737560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20737560", "title": "Certified California Municipal Treasurer", "text": "Certified California Municipal Treasurer\n\nA Certified California Municipal Treasurer (CCMT) is a post-nominal professional certification awarded by the California Municipal Treasurers Association (CMTA) to California public treasurers who meet standards of education, experience and a stated commitment to a code of ethics. It was created in 1978 to provide a professional standard of financial expertise and ethics in California government treasury. \n\nIt provides a framework for municipal treasurers in improving performance through continuing education and become valued administrators in local government. A CCMT is a professional treasurer who is qualified to meet the challenges of a job that is becoming more and more complex in the environment of public finance.\n\nA professional certification provides a degree of confidence that practitioners are adequately trained, educated and experienced to be prepared for financial challenges in the real world. Education, experience and ethics requirements serve as a standard for the profession. Those who have received the Certified California Municipal Treasurer (CCMT) have subjected themselves to review of their educational and experience. \n\nWhereas in the private sector, revenue generation and collection, banking and debt management are important to management and stockholders, in the public sector there is an element of safeguarding the public trust that is added.\n\nCCMT candidates must meet or exceed requirements in two areas; 50% educational standards and 50% experience and training requirements. Certification is also designed as a guide for municipal treasurers to become valued administrators in local government. \n\nEducation Requirement: College or University degrees at Bachelor level in Public Administration, Accounting, Finance or related field or satisfactory completion of a course of education approved by CMTA – ½ point per instruction hour. \n\nProfessional Experience and Training Requirement equivalent to employment as a Municipal Treasurer for 12.5 years, financial administrative position in local government or in corporate or private business for 25 years or a combination of several factors including board service on state and national treasury boards. Current active participation in CMTA is required.\n\nCCMTs must be recertified every four years. Recertification is accomplished by a combination of treasury experience and a minimum of 40 hours of continuing education.\n\nThe Office of the Treasurer is the only office in the Treasury Department that is older than the Department itself, as it was originally created by the Continental Congress in 1775. Michael Hillegas served as the first Treasurer of the United States and throughout the American Revolution until Congress the Department of the Treasury on September 2, 1789 Steven Mnuchin is currently the United States Secretary of the Treasury.\n\nBill Lockyer is the Treasurer of the State of California. There are 480 California cities, 58 California counties, and about 3,400 special districts and school districts, each with independent fiscal stewardship. Many City Treasurers are elected, and are therefore directly accountable to their constituents; the remainder are appointed either by City Council or City Manager. \n\nPublic treasurers are primarily responsible for managing the revenue and cash flow of a government agency. This officer is also responsible for banking, collections of user fees such as utility usage and business licenses, and communicating financial performance and forecasts to the community. The title may vary, such as finance director, chief financial officer or CFO, from agency to agency. \n\nTreasury has multiple constituencies, with a responsibility to citizens, taxpayers and voters to deliver informed stewardship in the investment of public funds (taxes). Additionally, treasury reporting must fund internal programs and fulfill budgetary requirements meeting expectations of governing city councils and boards of directors within approved financial policy guidelines.\n\nAccording to Benjamin Finkelstein, “On Main Street, political risk entails all the bad things that can happen to elected officials and their appointees when they take risks – even reasonable risks – with taxpayer money and come up short.” \n\nThe municipal treasurer does not have the public’s permission to put public funds principal at risk, no matter how great the potential yield. Securities options, therefore, are limited by statute to the safest portion of the investment continuum. Public Treasury statutes mandate a priority of safety (first), liquidity (secondarily) and yield (last). Since there is an inverse relationship between risk and rate of return, the potential return is limited by the risk that public funds are permitted to take.\n\nThe objective of municipal investments is to enhance the economic status of a given agency consistent with the prudent protection of the agency’s investments. Agencies are required to create a publicly reviewed investment policy, prepared in conformance with all pertinent existing laws of the State of California including California Government Code Sections 53600, et seq. This section of California Government Code defines permitted and prohibited investments. California public treasurers must abide within the limits of this code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9830840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9830840", "title": "Delivering as One", "text": "Delivering as One\n\nDelivering as One is a United Nations report established by the then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2005 on the topics of development assistance, humanitarian aid and environmental issues. The panel issued its report in November 2006, and sets out a program of reform of the UN's development operations. It focuses on four main principles: One Leader, One Budget, One Programme and One Office. This effort is mostly led by the United Nations Development Group, a group of 32 United Nations specialised agencies working on International Development issues. As a result, countries — both Government and UN partners — have undertaken efforts to work together more effectively and efficiently. Eight countries—Albania, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Pakistan, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uruguay, and Viet Nam—volunteered to be pilots for the initiative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21489468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21489468", "title": "Deutschvölkischer Schutz- und Trutzbund", "text": "Deutschvölkischer Schutz- und Trutzbund\n\nThe Deutschvölkischer Schutz- und Trutzbund (English: German Nationalist Protection and Defiance Federation) was the largest, most active, and most influential anti-Semitic federation in Germany after the First World War, and one of the largest and most important organizations of the German \"völkisch\" movement during the Weimar Republic (1918-1933), whose democratic-parliamentary system it unilaterally rejected. Its publishing arm put out some of the books that greatly influenced the opinions of those who later organized the Nazi Party, such as Heinrich Himmler, and after the Bund folded ( 1924) many of its members eventually joined the Nazis.\nThe Schutz- und Trutzbund used as its symbols a blue cornflower and a swastika, and according to Peter Padfield its motto was \"Wir sind die Herren der Welt!\" (\"We are the masters of the world!\"). Not a single German source can be found which confirms this motto, which in fact is a verse from the song \"Der mächtigste König im Luftrevier\" (i.e. The mightiest king in the skies.) According to Ulrich Sieg the motto was \"Deutschland den Deutschen\" (\"Germany for the Germans\").\n\nThe \"Deutschvölkischer Schutz- und Trutzbund\" was originally called the \"Deutscher Schutz- und Trutzbund\" when it was founded in February 1919 in Bamberg for the purpose of \"fighting\" Judaism, during a meeting of the \"Alldeutscher Verband\" (\"All-German League\"). The director of \"Deutschen Schutz- und Trutzbund\" was Alfred Roth, and its secret chairman was Konstantin von Gebsattel, appointed on 1 October 1919 by Ernst von Hertzberg Lottin. Their Advisory Board included, among others, Ernst Anton Franz von Bodelschwingh, August Gebhard, Paul Lucius, Ferdinand Werner, Julius Friedrich Lehmann, and Georg von Stössel. Their meeting place was originally in Duisburg, at Alfred Roth's house, but was later moved to Hamburg where it joined the amalgamation of several such other organizations. It merged with the \"Reichshammerbund\", and then, about one month later, merged with the \"Deutschvölkischen Bund\", the organization that succeeded the \"Deutschvölkische Party\".\n\nThe manifesto of the \"Deutschvölkischer Schutz- und Trutzbund\" was \"Wenn ich der Kaiser wär\", written by Heinrich Claß, in which he expressed identitarian, nationalist views. His slogan was: \"Germany for the Germans.\" Julius Friedrich Lehmann, a Munich publisher, helped promote their ideas, and in October 1918, Claß called for a coup d'etat. The organization agitated against the Weimar Republic; by 1923 it had just under 180,000 members.\n\nAn excerpt from the constitution of the \"Deutschvölkischer Schutz- und Trutzbund\"':\n\n\"The Bund fights for the moral rebirth of the German people . . . It considers the pernicious and destructive influence of Jewry to be the main cause of the defeat and the removal of this influence to be necessary for the political and economic recovery of Germany, and for the salvation of German culture. \"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34474916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34474916", "title": "Director of Security of the Defense Establishment", "text": "Director of Security of the Defense Establishment\n\nDirector of Security of the Defense Establishment or just Ministry of Defense Security Authority, Malmab (, \"Ha-Memune al ha-bitahon be-Misrad Ha-Bitahon\") is a department in the Israeli Defense Ministry that responsible for the security of the Defense Ministry, Israeli weapons industries and institutions in dealing with development and production of weapons of mass destruction and defensive centers such, the Negev Nuclear Research Center, Israel Institute for Biological Research and military units engaged in these areas.\n\nThe Malmab was established in 1958, under the leadership of Haim Kermun, former Shin Bet officer.\n\nTha Malmab investigate the function of the workers, security audits, certification of the exposure technology, corruption and preventing leakage of classified information.\n\nThe Malmab is operating also as Intelligence Agency—as the Malmab is operate activate agents that responsible for dealing with obtaining technological information and intelligence in foreign countries. This area was the responsibility of Science Affairs Bureau, but in 1986, after the Pollard affair, the Lekem powers were transferred.\n\nIn 2007, Amir Kane was appointed as the Director of Security of the Defense Establishment, instead of Yehiel Horev who was in this position for 21 years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155575", "title": "Erich Goode", "text": "Erich Goode\n\nErich Goode is an American sociologist specializing in the sociology of deviance. He has written a number of books on the field in general, as well as on specific deviant topics.\nHe is a professor at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.\n\nGoode received a B.A. from Oberlin College (1960) and a Ph.D. in sociology from Columbia University (1966). He has taught at Columbia University, New York University, Florida Atlantic University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Israel. He is currently employed as a professor at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. He also teaches at the University of Maryland.\n\nGoode takes a constructionist approach to deviance. In his view, a behavior is deviant if and only if society at large considers it so. The broader social factors that go into the classification of a behavior as deviant are thus considered a valid subject of study. His research focuses on the deviant individuals (and behaviors) themselves, as well as the particular individuals and groups that play a part in classifying the behavior as deviant. \n\nAs a sociologist, Goode makes no judgment about whether a particular is \"bad\" or \"evil\", and considers deviance as a topic to be entirely dependent on whether the society at large considers the behavior deviant. In this view, a particular behavior can be deviant in one society, but normal in another. This is in contrast to the perspective of essentialism, which would say that a behavior either \"really is\" deviant or \"really isn't\", and that it is the task of the sociologist to discover and report on the truth of the matter, and what society at large believes is mostly irrelevant.\n\nAccording to the constructionist framework as espoused by Goode, an instance of \"deviance\" can exist as a social construct exclusively, completely separate from any actual behavior. In other words, \"imaginary deviance\" can exist that causes a frenzy of interesting sociological behavior in response to a non-existence phenomenon. Satanic ritual abuse is an example of this in modern times, and the case of witch hunts is an example from antiquity. These are often called moral panics, and Goode considers them a valid subject (perhaps the ideal subject) for deviance studies.\n\nErich Goode is known for his exploration and exposure of the \"moral panic\" concept. He takes a \"harm reductionist\" approach to studying social deviance. This commitment aims to reduce social harm without engaging in value judgments or essentialist claims about those being studied.\n\n1. Legal instrumental use - Taking prescribed drugs and over the counter drugs to relieve or treat symptoms. \n\n2. Legal recreational use - Using legal (tobacco, alcohol, caffeine) drugs to achieve a certain mental state. \n\n3. Illegal instrumental use - Taking non prescription drugs to accomplish a task or goal. \n\n4.Illegal recreational use - Taking illegal drugs for fun or pleasure to experience euphoria.\n\nIn \"The Marijuana Smokers\" (1971), Goode looked at marijuana through a sociological lens.\n\nIn \"Drugs in American Society\", Goode argued that the effect of a drug is dependent on the societal context in which it is taken. Thus, in one society (or social context) a particular drug may be a depressant, and in another it may be a stimulant.\n\n\"Deviant Behavior\" is a textbook intended for undergrad students. In it, Goode takes the position of a weak constructionist.\n\n\"Moral Panics: The Social Construction of Deviance\", written with Nachman Ben-Yehuda, is a book about moral panics, from a sociological perspective. \n\nIn \"Paranormal Beliefs: A Sociological Introduction\" (1999), Goode studies paranormal beliefs such as UFOs, ESP, and creationism using the methods of the sociology of deviance. Consistent in tone with the rest of his works, he takes the position that whether the phenomenon in question is real is not important to a sociologist. Rather, sociologists should be concerned with how the paranormalist is labeled as deviant, and what effect the label has on them and society.\n\nAs a sociologist, Goode relies heavily on informants for his research. For example, Goode consulted with and interviewed actual drug users for his books on drugs. In 1999, Goode admitted through the sociology journal circuit that he had engaged in sexual intercourse with many of his deviant informants, and discussed how this influenced his perspective on the subject he was studying. This caused a firestorm of articles defending or denouncing his work.\n"}
{"id": "2423437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2423437", "title": "Family Responsibility Office", "text": "Family Responsibility Office\n\nThe Family Responsibility Office (FRO) is an office of the Government of Ontario responsible for collecting, distributing, and enforcing court-ordered child (and spousal) support payments in the province. It was established during Marion Boyd's two-year run as Attorney General of Ontario.\n\nThe FRO operates under the auspices of the Ministry of Community and Social Services and executive director Sharon Van Son.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "501676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501676", "title": "Fatherland Front (Bulgaria)", "text": "Fatherland Front (Bulgaria)\n\nThe Fatherland Front (OF) [\"Otečestven Front\"] () was originally a Bulgarian political resistance movement during World War II. The Zveno movement, the communist Bulgarian Workers Party, a wing of the Bulgarian Agrarian National Union and the Bulgarian Social Democratic Workers Party, were all part of the OF. The constituent groups of the OF had widely contrasting ideologies and had only united in face of the pro-German, militarist dictatorship in Bulgaria. Still, initially the members of the OF worked together, without a single dominating group. Professional associations and unions could be members of the front, whilst still maintaining their organisational independence. However, the Bulgarian Communist Party began to dominate soon. In 1944, after the Soviet Union had declared war on Bulgaria, the OF committed a coup d'état and they declared war on Germany and the other Axis nations. The OF government, headed by Kimon Georgiev (Zveno), immediately signed a ceasefire treaty with the Soviet Union.\n\nOn November 18, 1945, it won a large majority after being the only party or alliance listed on the ballot. In 1946 Georgiev resigned and his successor was Georgi Dimitrov, leader of the Communist Party, and Bulgaria became a People's Republic. It eventually transformed into a wide-ranging popular front under overall Communist control, and all member parties except the Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union dissolved. With the end of Communism in 1989 it was dissolved. One of the former Chairmen of the National Council was Encho Staikov. Pencho Kubadinski was Chairman of the National Council 1974–1989.\n"}
{"id": "17998116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17998116", "title": "Governor general's warrant", "text": "Governor general's warrant\n\nA governor general's warrant is a document authorizing Canada's President of the Treasury Board to spend money appropriated by Parliament. The Governor General may also issue a special warrant which allows the government to spend funds without an appropriation from Parliament. A special warrant may only be issued when money is \"urgently needed\" after Parliament has been dissolved and until sixty days after the dates set for the return of election writs.\n\nUntil 1997, when an act sponsored by Peter Milliken received Royal Assent, special warrants were available whenever Parliament was not is session, including adjournments and prorogations. Milliken had introduced similar bills since 1989 in response to the use of special warrants in 1988. Parliament convened in December 1988 and adjourned quickly without considering appropriations. During the adjournment and subsequent prorogation, the government resorted to special warrants to fund operations. The issue was raised in both chambers after Parliament returned.\n"}
{"id": "346882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346882", "title": "Herero Wars", "text": "Herero Wars\n\nThe Herero Wars were a series of colonial wars between the German Empire and the Herero people of German South West Africa (present-day Namibia).\n\nThe Hereros were cattle grazers, occupying most of central and northern South West Africa.\n\nDuring the Scramble for Africa, South West Africa was claimed by Germany in August 1884. At that time, it was the only overseas German territory deemed suitable for white settlement. German colonists arriving in the following years occupied large areas of land, ignoring any claims by the Herero, Namaqua, and other natives. There was continual resistance by the natives.\n\nA sort of peace was worked out in 1894. In that year, Theodor Leutwein became the colony's governor. White settlers were further encouraged and took more land from the natives. That caused a great deal of discontent.\n\nIn 1903, some of the Khoi and Herero tribes rose in revolt and about 60 German settlers were killed. Troops were sent from Germany to re-establish order but only dispersed the rebels, led by Chief Samuel Maharero. In a famous letter to Hendrik Witbooi, the Namaqua chief, Maharero sought to organize his rebellion against the Germans while building alliances with the other tribes, exclaiming \"Let us die fighting!\"\nThe Herero led a guerrilla campaign, conducting fast hit and run operations then melting back into the terrain they knew well, preventing the Germans from gaining an advantage with their modern artillery and machine-guns. However a conclusive battle was fought on August 11, 1904 at the Battle of Waterberg in the Waterberg Mountains. Chief Maharero believed his six to one advantage over the Germans would allow him to win in a final showdown. The Germans had time to bring forward their artillery and heavy weapons. Both sides took heavy losses, but the Herero were scattered and defeated.\n\nIn October 1904, General Lothar von Trotha issued orders to kill every male Herero and drive women and children into the desert. As soon as the news of this order reached Germany, it was repealed, but Trotha initially ignored Berlin. When the extermination order was finally suspended at the end of 1904, surviving tribesmen were herded into concentration camps, while others were transferred as slave labor to German businesses; many Herero died of overwork and malnutrition.\n\nIt took the Germans until 1908 to re-establish authority over the territory. By that time tens of thousands of Africans estimates range from 34,000 to 110,000 had been either killed) or died of thirst while fleeing. 65,000 of 80,000 Hereros and at least 10,000 of 20,000 Nama.\n\nAt the height of the campaign some 19,000 German troops were involved.\n\nAt about the same time, diamonds were discovered in the territory, which briefly greatly boosted its prosperity.\n\nIn 1915, during World War I, British and South African forces occupied it in the so-called South West Africa Campaign, and SW Africa later became a protectorate of South Africa.\n\nOn 16 August 2004, 100 years after the war, the German government officially apologized for the atrocities. \"We Germans accept our historic and moral responsibility and the guilt incurred by Germans at that time,\" said Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul, Germany's development aid minister. In addition, she admitted that the massacres were equivalent to genocide.\n\nNot until 2015 did the German government admit that the massacres were equivalent to genocide and again apologized in 2016. The Herero are suing the German government in a class action lawsuit.\n\nThe Herero Wars and the massacres are both depicted in a chapter of the 1963 novel \"V.\" by Thomas Pynchon. The tragic story of the Herero and Namaqua Genocide also appears in Pynchon's 1973 novel \"Gravity's Rainbow\".\n\nThe heavy toll of the Herero and Namaqua Genocide on individual lives and the fabric of Herero culture is seen in the 2013 historical novel \"Mama Namibia\" by Mari Serebrov.\n\nThe war and the massacres are both significantly featured in \"The Glamour Of Prospecting\", a contemporary account by Frederick Cornell of his attempts to prospect for diamonds in the region. In the book he describes his first hand accounts of witnessing the concentration camp on Shark Island amongst other aspects of the conflict.\n\n"}
{"id": "42763099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42763099", "title": "Inauguration of Willem-Alexander", "text": "Inauguration of Willem-Alexander\n\nThe inauguration of Willem-Alexander as the new monarch of the Kingdom of the Netherlands took place on 30 April 2013. Queen Beatrix announced on 28 January 2013 that she would abdicate in favor of her eldest son, Willem-Alexander. He is the first King of the Netherlands since the death of his great-great-grandfather King William III in 1890.\n\nOn 28 January 2013, three days before her 75th birthday, Queen Beatrix announced on a televised speech that she would abdicate, ending a reign of 33 years. Abdication is not uncommon in Dutch royalty. Both Queen Juliana, her mother, and Queen Wilhelmina, her grandmother, have abdicated.\n\nOn 30 April 2013 at 10:07 AM, Queen Beatrix signed the Instrument of Abdication, making Willem-Alexander the monarch even before the investiture.\n\nLater, Willem-Alexander was invested at the Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam.\n\n\nNotable guests include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48409395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48409395", "title": "International Open Data Charter", "text": "International Open Data Charter\n\nThe International Open Data Charter is a set of principles and best practices for the release of governmental open data. The charter was formally adopted by seventeen governments of countries, states and cities at the Open Government Partnership Global Summit in Mexico in October 2015. Signatories include the governments of Chile, Guatemala, France, Italy, Mexico, Philippines, South Korea, the United Kingdom and Uruguay, the cities of Buenos Aires, Minatitlán, Puebla, Veracruz, Montevideo, Reynosa, the state of Morelos and Xalapa.\n\nThe charter mandates that data released by governments comply with these principles:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11269675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11269675", "title": "Iron Guard death squads", "text": "Iron Guard death squads\n\nDuring the 1930s, three notable death squads emerged from Romania's Iron Guard: the Nicadori, the Decemviri and the Răzbunători. Motivated by a combination of fascist political ideology and religious-nationalist mysticism, they carried out several high-level political assassinations in the inter-war period.\n\nDeath was a central part of the Iron Guard's ideology. Its members, known as Legionnaires, were officially asked \"to embrace death\" if needed; in practice, they were supposed to be ready to both \"give\" and \"embrace\" death—in other words, to be willing to assassinate their political enemies at the risk of their own life. This \"Legionnaire's death\" was widely celebrated. For instance, the second verse of the hymn used by the Guard's youth wing is:\n\nThe Guard aligned itself with the Romanian Orthodox Church, which prohibits murder. However, it had ways of justifying the notion of \"giving death\" (a notion its founder, Corneliu Codreanu, never fully explained, as he was given to laconic pronouncements).\n\nCodreanu noted that, given the opposition the Guard faced from the state, other political parties, and the media, the Legionnaires had made \"the decision to embrace death. The 'death squad' is the expression of this determination, shared by all Legionnaires in the country. It means that these youths are willing to \"accept death\". They are willing to move forward, through death\". He suggested that in pursuing their goal, \"a new Romania and the long awaited revival of this Romanian nation, the aim of all our efforts, struggle, and sacrifice\", the Legionnaires were ready to sacrifice themselves, to become martyrs for their country.\n\nIt was during the Legionnaire-dominated Students' Congress of April 3–5, 1936, held at Târgu Mureș, that the death squads were officially established. However, writing in \"The Nest Leader's Manual\", which appeared in May 1933, Codreanu taught: \"A Legionnaire loves death, for his blood shall cement the future Legionary Romania\". In 1927, at the Guard's very creation, its members swore to be \"strong by severing all ties connecting us with mundane things ... by serving the cause of the Romanian nation and the cause of the Cross\". By claiming to renounce material wealth and invoking the Cross, the Legionnaires were channeling Christ: they believed they would die for the nation as he had died to redeem mankind. Vasile Marin, who made important contributions to Legionnaire doctrine, amplified on this notion when he praised the Nicadori in 1934: \"Three young students have committed an act in the service of a great cause. You all know what that act was. Their sacrifice was inspired by a great idea. It was done in the name of a great idea. They performed this act, and now they are paying the price\".\n\nFor the Legionnaires, the murder of a political enemy or a traitorous comrade meant sacrificing oneself for a greater cause: the Christian religion, one of mercy, was thus transformed into an ideology of murder. They drew inspiration from Codreanu himself, who had planned a large number of political assassinations with Ion Moța, and who had killed a policeman in Iași in autumn 1924. At his trial for that deed he proclaimed, \"it was my faith and my love of this country that guided me in this struggle, in everything I did. We pledge to fight until the end\". He was acquitted, as was Moţa (who shot Vernichescu, the man who revealed the assassination conspiracy, seven times, albeit not fatally); both were acclaimed as heroes.\n\nAs assassinations rendered their perpetrators heroes, they became a sought-after activity for Legionnaires, and Codreanu further enticed them: \"The day after the victory of the Legionnaires we shall convene an called upon to judge, for \"high treason\": ... all those who, in defiance of the laws of this country, persecuted, imprisoned, or otherwise caused harm to the Legionnaires and to their families ... no one shall escape judgment\". Codreanu's former deputy Mihai Stelescu, after leaving the Legion, publicly accused Codreanu of sacrificing young men for the advancement of his own career, and of devising a type of murder based on \"manipulation of the masses\", using others as assassins and leaving them to face justice.\n\nFurthermore, Legionnaires were animated by the idea that the nation included both the dead and the living, with its heroes providing assistance to the latter when invoked. This element of their ideology involved an authentic mystique of the idea of dying for one's nation, as those killed in the course of their duties automatically became heroes who could continue to support their living comrades' undertakings. This enthusiasm for death motivated Moţa, who went to Spain to die for Romania so that (as he believed) his country would be redeemed in God's eyes, as well as in the death-exalting literature produced by that segment of the intellectual élite which had proved receptive to Legionary ideas: Mircea Eliade, Radu Gyr, Constantin Noica, and others.\n\nThe Legionnaire's death was amply practiced. Many gave their lives certain that the movement and the national cause would be strengthened; they never hesitated to kill in the name of the same idea. Aside from the three cases discussed below, Iron Guard members were responsible for the Jilava Massacre at the eponymous prison on the night of November 26-27, 1940, when 64 political prisoners, 46 officers and guards, and a number of military detainees were killed; the murder of Nicolae Iorga and Virgil Madgearu that same night; other killings during the National Legionary State; and the deaths of hundreds of officers, civilians, and Bucharest Jews during the Legionnaires' Rebellion and Bucharest Pogrom.\n\nThe Nicadori assassinated Prime Minister Ion G. Duca at Sinaia train station at 10 pm on December 30, 1933. This was the first major political assassination in Romania since Barbu Catargiu was shot in 1862. The Nicadori killed Duca because he had arrested thousands of Legionnaires during the 1933 election campaign, also leaving 18 dead; and because he had allowed for increased Jewish immigration while blocking that of Aromanians to Dobrudja. Their name was derived from the first letters of the group members' names:\n\n\nArrested right away, the trio was sentenced to hard labour for life. While in prison, Caranica wrote a book on Aromanian issues, and Belimace, among other works, wrote \"Revoluţia fascistă\" (\"The Fascist Revolution\"). They were killed, along with the Decemviri and Codreanu, on November 30, 1938, while being transported to Jilava prison.\n\nThe Decemviri, so called because they numbered ten men, like their Ancient Roman equivalents, the Decemviri, shot Mihai Stelescu in his hospital bed between 38 and about 200 times on July 16, 1936. After shooting him, they cut him into pieces with axes and danced around the body of the victim. Four of those involved in Stelescu's execution were theology students. Stelescu had left the Iron Guard, forming the rival Crusade of Romanianism, and launching a series of public attacks against Codreanu. Codreanu could not abide this betrayal, although both he and the assassins (rather implausibly) denied he knew about the plan or had consented to it.\n\nIon Caratănase led the squad; its other members were Iosif Bozântan, Ştefan Curcă, Ion Pele, Grigore Ion State, Ion Atanasiu, Gavrilă Bogdan, Radu Vlad, Ştefan Georgescu and Ion Trandafir. Arrested immediately, the men were sentenced to hard labour for life. They were killed, along with the Nicadori and Codreanu, on November 30, 1938, while being transported to Jilava prison.\n\nRăzbunătorii – \"the Avengers\" – assassinated Prime Minister Armand Călinescu on September 21, 1939. Călinescu had been Minister of the Interior at the time of Codreanu's death, and thus had some connection with it. A few months after Codreanu was killed, King Carol's police uncovered a plot to exact revenge on Călinescu. Carol retaliated by ordering members of the Iron Guard rounded up and put to death without trial. The exact number executed was never known; estimates were as high as six thousand.\n\nIn response, nine young Legionnaires ambushed Călinescu while he was on his way to work. They were:\n\n\nThey fired over twenty bullets into his body, also killing his driver and wounding his bodyguard. The assailants were caught shortly before midnight on the day of the attack. On King Carol's orders, they were taken to the spot where they had killed the premier. Huge floodlights from army trucks illuminated the area so that the assembled crowd could watch as the nine men were shot in the head with their own guns. The\nbodies were left under the lights for days. Above them was a large banner reading: \"De acum înainte, aceasta va fi soarta trădătorilor de ţară\" (\"From now on, this shall be the fate of those who betray the country\"). Soldiers and police were given a free hand to deal with any and all suspected members of the Iron Guard, and thousands of young men were shot, hanged from telegraph poles, or tortured to death. A few hundred escaped to Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "14696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14696", "title": "Israeli Declaration of Independence", "text": "Israeli Declaration of Independence\n\nThe Israeli Declaration of Independence, formally the Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel (), was proclaimed on 14 May 1948 (5 Iyar 5708) by David Ben-Gurion, the Executive Head of the World Zionist Organization, Chairman of the Jewish Agency for Palestine, and soon to be first Prime Minister of Israel. It declared the establishment of a Jewish state in Eretz-Israel, to be known as the State of Israel, which would come into effect on termination of the British Mandate at midnight that day. The event is celebrated annually in Israel with a national holiday Independence Day on 5 Iyar of every year according to the Hebrew calendar.\n\nThe possibility of a Jewish homeland in Palestine had been a goal of Zionist organizations since the late 19th century. The British Foreign Secretary stated in the Balfour Declaration of 1917:\n\nHis Majesty's government view with favour the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people, and will use their best endeavours to facilitate the achievement of this object, it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine, or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other country.\n\nAfter World War I, the United Kingdom was given a mandate for Palestine, which it had conquered from the Ottomans during the war. In 1937 the Peel Commission suggested partitioning Mandate Palestine into an Arab state and a Jewish state, though the proposal was rejected as unworkable by the government and was at least partially to blame for the renewal of the 1936–39 Arab revolt.\nIn the face of increasing violence after World War II, the British handed the issue over to the recently established United Nations. The result was Resolution 181(II), a plan to partition Palestine into \"Independent Arab and Jewish States and the Special International Regime for the City of Jerusalem\". The Jewish state was to receive around 56% of the land area of Mandate Palestine, encompassing 82% of the Jewish population, though it would be separated from Jerusalem. The plan was accepted by most of the Jewish population, but rejected by much of the Arab populace. On 29 November 1947, the resolution to recommend \"to the United Kingdom, as the mandatory Power for Palestine, and to all other Members of the United Nations the adoption and implementation, with regard to the future government of Palestine, of the Plan of Partition with Economic Union\" was put to a vote in the United Nations General Assembly.\nThe result was 33 to 13 in favour of the resolution, with 10 abstentions. Resolution 181(II): \"PART I: Future constitution and government of Palestine: A. TERMINATION OF MANDATE, PARTITION AND INDEPENDENCE: Clause 3\" provides:\"Independent Arab and Jewish States and the Special International Regime for the City of Jerusalem, ... shall come into existence in Palestine two months after the evacuation of the armed forces of the mandatory Power has been completed but in any case not later than 1 October 1948\".\n\nThe Arab countries (all of which had opposed the plan) proposed to query the International Court of Justice on the competence of the General Assembly to partition a country, but the resolution was rejected.\n\nThe first draft of the declaration was made by Zvi Berenson, the Histadrut trade union's legal advisor and later a Justice of the Supreme Court, at the request of Pinchas Rosen. A revised second draft was made by three lawyers, A. Beham, A. Hintzheimer and Z.E. Baker, and was framed by a committee including David Remez, Pinchas Rosen, Haim-Moshe Shapira, Moshe Sharett and Aharon Zisling. A second committee meeting, which included David Ben-Gurion, Yehuda Leib Maimon, Sharett and Zisling produced the final text.\n\nOn 12 May 1948, the Minhelet HaAm (, lit. \"People's Administration\") was convened to vote on declaring independence. Three of the thirteen members were missing, with Yehuda Leib Maimon and Yitzhak Gruenbaum being blocked in besieged Jerusalem, while Yitzhak-Meir Levin was in the United States.\n\nThe meeting started at 1:45 in the afternoon and ended after midnight. The decision was between accepting the American proposal for a truce, or declaring independence. The latter option was put to a vote, with six of the ten members present supporting it:\n\nChaim Weizmann, the Chairman of the World Zionist Organization, and soon to be first President of Israel, endorsed the decision, after reportedly asking \"What are they waiting for, the idiots?\"\n\nThe draft text was submitted for approval to a meeting of Moetzet HaAm (, lit. \"People's Council\") at the JNF building in Tel Aviv on 14 May. The meeting started at 13:50 and ended at 15:00, an hour before the declaration was due to be made, and despite ongoing disagreements, with a unanimous vote in favour of the final text. During the process, there were two major debates, centering on the issues of borders and religion. \n\nThe borders were not specified in the Declaration. However, its 14th paragraph included a commitment to implement the UN Partition Plan:\nTHE STATE OF ISRAEL is prepared to cooperate with the agencies and representatives of the United Nations in implementing the resolution of the General Assembly of the 29th November, 1947\n\nThe original draft had declared that the borders would be that decided by the UN partition plan. While this was supported by Rosen and Bechor-Shalom Sheetrit, it was opposed by Ben-Gurion and Zisling, with Ben-Gurion stating, \"We accepted the UN Resolution, but the Arabs did not. They are preparing to make war on us. If we defeat them and capture western Galilee or territory on both sides of the road to Jerusalem, these areas will become part of the state. Why should we obligate ourselves to accept boundaries that in any case the Arabs don't accept?\" The inclusion of the designation of borders in the text was dropped after the provisional government of Israel, the Minhelet HaAm, voted 5–4 against it. The Revisionists, committed to a Jewish state on both sides of the Jordan River (that is, including Transjordan), wanted the phrase \"within its historic borders\" included but were unsuccessful.\n\nThe second major issue was over the inclusion of God in the last section of the document, with the draft using the phrase \"and placing our trust in the Almighty\". The two rabbis, Shapira and Yehuda Leib Maimon, argued for its inclusion, saying that it could not be omitted, with Shapira supporting the wording \"God of Israel\" or \"the Almighty and Redeemer of Israel\". It was strongly opposed by Zisling, a member of the secularist Mapam. In the end the phrase \"Rock of Israel\" was used, which could be interpreted as either referring to God, or the land of Eretz Israel, Ben-Gurion saying \"Each of us, in his own way, believes in the 'Rock of Israel' as he conceives it. I should like to make one request: Don't let me put this phrase to a vote.\" Although its use was still opposed by Zisling, the phrase was accepted without a vote.\n\nThe writers also had to decide on the name for the new state. Eretz Israel, Ever (from the name Eber), Judea, and Zion were all suggested, as were Ziona, Ivriya and Herzliya. Judea and Zion were rejected because, according to the partition plan, Jerusalem (Zion) and most of the Judean mountains would be outside the new state. Ben-Gurion put forward \"Israel\" and it passed by a vote of 6–3. Official documents released in April 2013 by the State Archive of Israel show that days before the establishment of the State of Israel in May 1948, officials were still debating about what the new country would be called in Arabic: Palestine (Filastin), Zion (Sayoun) or Israel (Eesra’il). Two assumptions were made: \"That an Arab state was about to be established alongside the Jewish one in keeping with the UN’s partition resolution the year before, and that the Jewish state would include a large Arab minority whose feelings needed to be taken into account\". In the end, the officials rejected the name Palestine because they thought that would be the name of the new Arab state and could cause confusion so they opted for the most straightforward option: Israel.\n\nAt the meeting on 14 May, several other members of Moetzet HaAm suggested additions to the document. Meir Vilner wanted it to denounce the British Mandate and military but Sharett said it was out of place. Meir Argov pushed to mention the Displaced Persons camps in Europe and to guarantee freedom of language. Ben-Gurion agreed with the latter but noted that Hebrew should be the main language of the state.\n\nThe debate over wording did not end completely even after the Declaration had been made. Declaration signer Meir David Loewenstein later claimed, \"It ignored our sole right to Eretz Israel, which is based on the covenant of the Lord with Abraham, our father, and repeated promises in the Tanach. It ignored the aliya of the Ramban and the students of the Vilna Gaon and the Ba'al Shem Tov, and the [rights of] Jews who lived in the 'Old Yishuv'.\"\n\nThe ceremony was held in the Tel Aviv Museum (today known as Independence Hall) but was not widely publicised as it was feared that the British Authorities might attempt to prevent it or that the Arab armies might invade earlier than expected. An invitation was sent out by messenger on the morning of 14 May telling recipients to arrive at 15:30 and to keep the event a secret. The event started at 16:00 (a time chosen so as not to breach the sabbath) and was broadcast live as the first transmission of the new radio station Kol Yisrael.\n\nThe final draft of the declaration was typed at the Jewish National Fund building following its approval earlier in the day. Ze'ev Sherf, who stayed at the building in order to deliver the text, had forgotten to arrange transport for himself. Ultimately, he had to flag down a passing car and ask the driver (who was driving a borrowed car without a license) to take him to the ceremony. Sherf's request was initially refused but he managed to persuade the driver to take him. The car was stopped by a policeman for speeding while driving across the city though a ticket was not issued after it was explained that he was delaying the declaration of independence. Sherf arrived at the museum at 15:59.\n\nAt 16:00, Ben-Gurion opened the ceremony by banging his gavel on the table, prompting a spontaneous rendition of Hatikvah, soon to be Israel's national anthem, from the 250 guests. On the wall behind the podium hung a picture of Theodor Herzl, the founder of modern Zionism, and two flags, later to become the official flag of Israel.\n\nAfter telling the audience \"I shall now read to you the scroll of the Establishment of the State, which has passed its first reading by the National Council\", Ben-Gurion proceeded to read out the declaration, taking 16 minutes, ending with the words \"Let us accept the Foundation Scroll of the Jewish State by rising\" and calling on Rabbi Fishman to recite the Shehecheyanu blessing.\n\nAs leader of the Yishuv, David Ben-Gurion was the first person to sign. The declaration was due to be signed by all 37 members of Moetzet HaAm. However, twelve members could not attend, eleven of them trapped in besieged Jerusalem and one abroad. The remaining 25 signatories present were called up in alphabetical order to sign, leaving spaces for those absent. Although a space was left for him between the signatures of Eliyahu Dobkin and Meir Vilner, Zerach Warhaftig signed at the top of the next column, leading to speculation that Vilner's name had been left alone to isolate him, or to stress that even a communist agreed with the declaration. However, Warhaftig later denied this, stating that a space had been left for him (as he was one of the signatories trapped in Jerusalem) where a Hebraicised form of his name would have fitted alphabetically, but he insisted on signing under his actual name so as to honour his father's memory and so moved down two spaces. He and Vilner would be the last surviving signatories, and remained close for the rest of their lives. Of the signatories, two were women (Golda Meir (Meyerson/Myerson) and Rachel Cohen-Kagan).\n\nWhen Herzl Rosenblum, a journalist, was called up to sign, Ben-Gurion instructed him to sign under the name Herzl Vardi, his pen name, as he wanted more Hebrew names on the document. Although Rosenblum acquiesced to Ben-Gurion's request and legally changed his name to Vardi, he later admitted to regretting not signing as Rosenblum. Several other signatories later Hebraised their names, including Meir Argov (Grabovsky), Peretz Bernstein (then Fritz Bernstein), Avraham Granot (Granovsky), Avraham Nissan (Katznelson), Moshe Kol (Kolodny), Yehuda Leib Maimon (Fishman), Golda Meir (Meyerson/Myerson), Pinchas Rosen (Felix Rosenblueth) and Moshe Sharett (Shertok). Other signatories added their own touches, including Saadia Kobashi who added the phrase \"HaLevy\", referring to the tribe of Levi.\n\nAfter Sharett, the last of the signatories, had put his name to paper, the audience again stood and the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra played \"Hatikvah\". Ben-Gurion concluded the event with the words \"The State of Israel is established! This meeting is adjourned!\"\n\nThe declaration was signed in a context of civil war between the Arab and Jewish populations of the Mandate that had started the day after the partition vote at the UN six months earlier. Neighbouring Arab states and the Arab League were opposed to the vote and had declared they would intervene to prevent its implementation. In a on 15 May 1948 to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary-General of the League of Arab States claimed that \"the Arab states find themselves compelled to intervene in order to restore law and order and to check further bloodshed\".\n\nOver the next few days after the declaration, armies of Egypt, Trans-Jordan, Iraq, and Syria engaged Israeli troops inside the area of what had just ceased to be Mandatory Palestine, thereby starting the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. A truce began on 11 June, but fighting resumed on 8 July and stopped again on 18 July, before restarting in mid-October and finally ending on 24 July 1949 with the signing of the armistice agreement with Syria. By then Israel had retained its independence and increased its land area by almost 50% compared to the 1947 UN Partition Plan.\n\nFollowing the declaration, Moetzet HaAm became the Provisional State Council, which acted as the legislative body for the new state until the first elections in January 1949.\n\nMany of the signatories would play a prominent role in Israeli politics following independence; Moshe Sharett and Golda Meir both served as Prime Minister, Yitzhak Ben-Zvi became the country's second president in 1952, and several others served as ministers. David Remez was the first signatory to pass away, dying in May 1951, while Meir Vilner, the youngest signatory at just 29, was the longest living, serving in the Knesset until 1990 and dying in June 2003. Eliyahu Berligne, the oldest signatory at 82, died in 1959.\n\nEleven minutes after midnight, the United States \"de facto\" recognized the State of Israel. This was followed by Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's Iran (which had voted against the UN partition plan), Guatemala, Iceland, Nicaragua]l, Romania, and Uruguay. The Soviet Union was the first nation to fully recognize Israel de jure on 17 May 1948, followed by Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Ireland, and South Africa. The United States extended official recognition after the first Israeli election, as Truman had promised on 31 January 1949. By virtue of General Assembly Resolution 273 (III), Israel was admitted to membership in the United Nations on 11 May 1949.\n\nIn the three years following the 1948 Palestine war, about 700,000 Jews immigrated to Israel, residing mainly along the borders and in former Arab lands. Around 136,000 were some of the 250,000 displaced Jews of World War II. And from the 1948 Arab–Israeli War until the early 1970s, 800,000–1,000,000 Jews left, fled, or were expelled from their homes in Arab countries; 260,000 of them reached Israel between 1948 and 1951; and 600,000 by 1972.\n\nAt the same time, a large number of Arabs left, fled or were expelled from, what became Israel. In the \"Report of the Technical Committee on Refugees (Submitted to the United Nations Conciliation Commission for Palestine in Lausanne on 7 September 1949) – (A/1367/Rev.1)\", in paragraph 15, the estimate of the statistical expert, which the Committee believed to be as accurate as circumstances permitted, indicated that the refugees from Israel-controlled territory amounted to approximately 711,000.\n\nParagraph 13 of the Declaration provides that the State of Israel would \"be based on freedom, justice and peace as envisaged by the prophets of Israel; it will ensure complete equality of social and political rights to all its inhabitants irrespective of religion, race or sex;\". However, the Knesset maintains that the declaration is neither a law nor an ordinary legal document. The Supreme Court has ruled that the guarantees were merely guiding principles, and that the declaration is not a constitutional law making a practical ruling on the upholding or nullification of various ordinances and statutes.\n\nIn 1994 the Knesset amended two basic laws, and Freedom of Occupation, introducing (among other changes) a statement saying \"the fundamental human rights in Israel will be honored (...) in the spirit of the principles included in the declaration of the establishment of the State of Israel.\"\n\nAlthough Ben-Gurion had told the audience that he was reading from the scroll of independence, he was actually reading from handwritten notes because only the bottom part of the scroll had been finished by artist and calligrapher Otte Wallish by the time of the declaration (he did not complete the entire document until June). The scroll, which is bound together in three parts, is generally kept in the country's National Archives.\n\nTranslation of the Declaration by the Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1699622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699622", "title": "Japanese Society for History Textbook Reform", "text": "Japanese Society for History Textbook Reform\n\nThe is a group founded in December 1996 to promote a nationalistic view of the history of Japan.\n\nThe group was responsible for authoring a history textbook published from Fusōsha (扶桑社), which was heavily criticised by China, South Korea, and many Western historians for not including full accounts of or downplaying Imperial Japanese war crimes during World War II, such as the Nanjing Massacre (南京大虐殺) being euphemistically labelled as \"Nanjing \"Incident\"\" (南京事件) and the policy of utilizing \"comfort women\" (慰安婦). \n\nThe textbook also highlights Japan's claim to the Liancourt Rocks, which Japan calls \"Takeshima\" and which South Korea calls \"Dokdo\"; as well as the Senkaku Islands, called Diaoyu in Chinese, which are administered by Japan and claimed by both the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China (Taiwan).\n\nThe Japan Policy Institute (日本政策研究センター, not to be confused with the JPRI based in San Francisco) has published a pamphlet entitled \"Questionable points of Chinese and Korean textbooks\" (ここがおかしい中国・韓国歴史教科書). The institute accuses neighboring Asian nations' textbooks of containing anti-Japanese propaganda, and encouraged people to compare the textbooks.\n\nThe textbook, published as a trade book in Japan in June 2001, sold six hundred thousand copies by June 2004. Despite commercial success, the book was taken up by only a handful of schools, most of which are privately run and located in a comparatively small geographic area of Tokyo.\n\nTranslated by Japanese Society for History Textbook Reform.\n\n\nIn 1997, Shinzō Abe led the Japanese Society for History Textbook Reform, and founded the Institute of Junior Assembly Members Who Think About the Outlook of Japan and History Education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52436602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52436602", "title": "Labor movement in Taiwan", "text": "Labor movement in Taiwan\n\nThe labor movement in Taiwan did not start until the 1980s, after the end of martial law in Taiwan. Many of these labor movements began when Kuomintang became more lenient with social movements. In addition, with the help of non-KMT political figures, such as members of the Democratic Progressive Party, many labor unions and State-owned enterprise administrations removed KMT's influence, and this reshaped a huge economic sector of Taiwan from being strictly controlled by the state.\n\nDuring the period of martial law in Taiwan from 1949, the Kuomintang (KMT) prohibited the formation of new political parties, outlawed collective action including labor strikes, and censored all media. It built Leninist-style party organizations in major factories, and state corporates and factory organizers worked together to tackle worker's subjections. The KMT government also executed a national industrialization policy that led to the development of many specific industries including transportation, electricity, petroleum, and telecommunications as state-owned or public companies. Labor unions were then formed to support the state and its economic plan, instead of providing a collective bargaining platform for workers in these state-own industries. It was not until the 1980s when the emergence of new political forces from the new middle class emerged within Taiwan, weakening the Kuomintang's strong opposition to social movements. The Democratic Progressive Party was formed in 1986, and martial law ended in 1987. Initially, the labor movements focused on issues such as overtime and annual bonuses, but then this movement turned into seizures of labor unions. Many corporates had close ties with the Kuomintang, but with the labor movements, the KMT party branches lost their privileges within these enterprises.\n\nIn the early 1990s, labor unions began to demand that the KMT withdraw its force and influence from unions. They did so by spreading stories of party corruption, and worked with the DPP to uncover illegal activities of the KMT. During the 1997 Asian financial crisis, labor disputes and unemployment issues were brought to the attention of the government, and workers began to recognize the importance of autonomous unions. After the 2000 election, the Kuomintang lost its position as the ruling party in both the Legislative Yuan and the executive branch. The Democratic Progressive Party introduced a bill to revise the Labor Standards Law and tried to set a legal limit of 44 working hours per week. However, after compromising with the KMT, the bill was revised to set the legal working period to 84 hours per two weeks. This law went into effect in 2001. This was seen as the first move of the DPP asserting their executive power over labor movements.\n\nIn addition to the revision of Labor Standards law, the state also revised Union law and Labor Dispute Mediation law. The organization of labor in the 1980s did not have much involvement of opposition political figures. However, workers followed their agendas and asserted their opposition to the enterprises and the government. As the labor movement progressed, there was also an increase in disputes between workers and their employers. The number of disputed cases rose from 1609 cases in 1987 to 10955 cases in 2001. There was also an increase in union membership as the labor movement progressed. The unionization rate increased from 37.58% in 1987 to 39.40% in 2001. In addition, many state-owned enterprises privatized starting 1989, and about 30 companies privatized between 1989 and 2003. The privatization of state-owned enterprises was not because these companies faced economic pressure such as debts, but from political and macro-economic conditions.\n"}
{"id": "15016776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15016776", "title": "List of capitals in Pakistan", "text": "List of capitals in Pakistan\n\nThis is a list of capital cities, including the legislature or seat of government, of Pakistan and its current and former provinces, territories, and states.\n\nIslamabad officially became the capital of Pakistan on 14 August 1967, exactly 20 years after the country's independence. Previously, Rawalpindi was the capital, designated in 1958. The first capital of Pakistan was the coastal city of Karachi, which was selected by Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Karachi was and still is the largest city and economic capital of Pakistan. It remained the seat of government until 1959, when the military president, Ayub Khan, decided to build a new capital in the north of Pakistan, near the general headquarters of the Pakistani Armed Forces at Rawalpindi. \n\nThe legislature was based in Dacca in the province of East Bengal (later renamed East Pakistan). \n\nThe reasons for relocating the capital from Karachi are that it would reflect the diversity of the Pakistani people, it would be separated from the business and commercial activity of Karachi, and also it would be easily accessible from all parts of the country. The move to Islamabad was not completed until the late 1960s and for some years several government ministries were based in nearby Rawalpindi.\n\nThe capitals of the provinces and territories of Pakistan have remained the same since the 1970s when the current administrative structure was established. All four provincial capitals are the largest cities of their respective provinces.Pakistan has a total population of 207,774,520 according to 2017 census estimate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43116870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43116870", "title": "Michael Coetzee", "text": "Michael Coetzee\n\nMichael Coetzee (25 August 1959 – 13 June 2014) was a South African activist, trade union leader and secretary of Parliament of South Africa.\n\nCoetzee was influenced by both the Black Consciousness Movement whilst he was in high school Uitenhage and the politically-charged atmosphere of the University of the Western Cape in the late 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nCoetzee was recruited into the then banned African National Congress in 1981 and went underground. In 1983 he was arrested by the apartheid government for his involvement in the ANC after documentation with his details were found during a raid led by the South African Defence Force into Lesotho.\n\nHe was arrested in 1983 after information linking him to the banned organisation was found during a raid by the SADF in Lesotho, where some of the ANC’s underground structures were based. He was then charged with perjury for refusing to testify against other ANC members and spent a year in Allandale Prison. \n\nAfter prison, Coetzee worked for the Chemical Workers Industrial Union in East London where he assisted in the formation of South Africa's largest trade union COSATU.\n\nCoetzee was regarded as an important political organiser within the ANC and against apartheid.\n\nFollowing South Africa's first democratic elections in 1994 he became secretary to the Gauteng Provincial Legislature. Eight years later in 2002 he was appointed deputy secretary of the Parliament of South Africa and was promoted to secretary in 2012.\n\nCoetzee died of cancer on 13 June 2014.\n"}
{"id": "30047339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30047339", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Soviet Union)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Soviet Union)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) (), formed in 1936, was one of the most important government offices in the Soviet Union. It was formerly (until 1946) known as the State Committee on the Arts (). The Ministry, at the all-Union level, was established in 1953, after existing as a State Committee of the Council of Ministers for several years. The Ministry was led by the Minister of Culture, prior to 1953 a Chairman, who was nominated by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and confirmed by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, and was a member of the Council of Ministers of the USSR. It was responsible for the cultural affairs and activities within the Soviet Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19128368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19128368", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Thailand)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Thailand)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence (MOD; ; ), is a cabinet-level government department of the Kingdom of Thailand. The ministry controls and manages the Royal Thai Armed Forces to maintain national security, territorial integrity, and national defence. The armed forces of Thailand are composed of three branches: the Royal Thai Army, Royal Thai Navy, and Royal Thai Air Force. \n\nAlthough the King of Thailand is the supreme head of the Thai armed forces (), his position is only nominal. The ministry and the forces are administered by an appointed politician, the Minister of Defence, a member of the Cabinet of Thailand. The post of Minister of Defence has been held by General Prawit Wongsuwon, who is also Deputy Prime Minister, since August 2014.\n\nInitially, the Ministry was called \"Krom Kalahom\" () and its head was called \"Samuha Kalahom\" (), and it was charged with the protection of the southern border. It was founded in the Ayutthaya period and was retained throughout the Rattanakosin period. The ministry in its current design was formed in 1887, by the order of King Chulalongkorn, to create a permanent military command. This was a result of the increasing threat posed by Western powers. The ministry was first housed in an old horse-and-elephant stable opposite the Grand Palace. A new European-style building was erected to house it. At first the ministry only commanded the army (founded in 1847), but then it incorporated the navy (founded in 1887), and finally, the air force (founded in 1913). In 1914, King Vajiravudh determined that the act providing for invoking martial law, first promulgated by his father in 1907, was not consistent with modern laws of war nor convenient for the preservation of the external or internal security of the state, so it was changed to the modern form that, with minor amendments, continues to be in force.\n\nFor fiscal year 2018 (FY2018) the army's budget is 107,457 million baht; the navy's, 43,835 million baht; and the air force, 39,931 million baht.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6569879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6569879", "title": "Minor injuries unit", "text": "Minor injuries unit\n\nA minor injuries unit (MIU) is a type of walk-in clinic service provided in some hospitals in the United Kingdom. Units are generally staffed by emergency nurse practitioners (ENPs) who can work autonomously to treat minor injuries such as lacerations and fractures. Some units have access to X-ray facilities. There is some consultant input in training and supervision. No appointment is needed, and waiting times are often shorter than at emergency departments.\n\nIn 1994, a minor injuries unit opened at the Western General Hospital, Edinburgh which became the first nurse-led unit in Scotland. A two-year evaluation showed the service was run at an average cost of £33 per patient visit.\n\n"}
{"id": "3782186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3782186", "title": "Narmada Bachao Andolan", "text": "Narmada Bachao Andolan\n\nNarmada Bachao Andolan (\"NBA\") is a social movement consisting of \"adivasis\", farmers, environmentalists and human rights activists against the number of large dams being built across the Narmada River, which flows through the states of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.\nSardar Sarovar Dam in Gujarat is one of the biggest dams on the river and was one of the first focal points of the movement. It is one of the many dams under the Narmada Dam Project whose main aim is to provide irrigation and electricity to people in these states.\n\nTheir mode of campaign includes court actions, hunger strikes, rallies and gathering support from notable film and art personalities. Narmada Bachao Andolan, with its leading spokespersons Medha Patkar and Baba Amte, have received the Right Livelihood Award in 1991.\n\nRight after independence under the newly formed government headed by Jawaharlal Nehru, investigations were carried out to evaluate mechanisms for using water from the Narmada River, which flows into the Arabian Sea after passing through the states of Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat. The formation of the Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal was triggered by interstate differences in implementing schemes and sharing of water by the Government of India on 6 October 1969 to adjudicate over the disputes. The tribunal investigated the matters referred to it and responded after more than 10 years. The Narmada Tribunal aimed to set out conditions regarding the resettlement and rehabilitation of those displaced by the dams. On 12 December 1979, after ten years of investigation, the decision as given by the tribunal, with all the parties at dispute binding to it, was released by the Indian government.\n\nAs per the tribunal's decision, 30 major, 135 medium, and 3000 small dams, were granted approval for construction, including raising the height of the Sardar Sarovar dam. This decision was motivated by the assumption that it would provide water to around forty million people, irrigation, and electricity to people in the region. Thus, the construction began.\n\nIn 1985, after hearing about the Sardar Sarovar dam, Medha Patkar and her colleagues visited the project site and noticed that project work being checked due to an order by the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India. The reasons for this was cited as \"non-fulfillment of basic environmental conditions and the lack of completion of crucial studies and plans\". The people who were going to be affected by the construction of the dam were given no information but the offer for rehabilitation. Villagers weren't consulted and weren't asked for a feedback on the assessment that had taken place. Furthermore, the officials related to the project had not even checked the land records and updated them. While World Bank, the financing agency for this project, came into the picture, Patkar approached the Ministry of Environment to seek clarifications. She realized, after seeking answers from the ministry, that the project was not sanctioned at all and wondered as to how funds were even sanctioned by the World Bank. After several studies, they realized that the officials had overlooked the post project problems.\n\nThrough Patkar's channel of communication between the government and the residents, she provided critiques to the project authorities and the governments involved. At the same time, her group realized that all those displaced were given compensation only for the immediate standing crop and not for displacement and rehabilitation.\n\nAs Patkar remained immersed in the Narmada struggle, she chose to quit her Ph.D. studies and focus entirely on the Narmada activity. Thereafter, she organized a 36-day solidarity march among the neighboring states of the Narmada valley from Madhya Pradesh to the Sardar Sarovar dam site. She said that the march was \"a path symbolizing the long path of struggle (both immediate and long-term) that [they] really had\". The march was resisted by the police, who according to Patkar were \"caning the marchers and arresting them and tearing the clothes off women activists\".\n\nWithin the focus of the NBA towards the stoppage of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, Patkar advised adding the World Bank to its propaganda. Using the right to fasting, she undertook a 22-day fast that almost took her life. Patkar's actions did force the World Bank to set up The Morse Commission, an independent review of the project. Their report clearly stated that the Bank's policies on environment and resettlement were being violated by the project. The World Bank's participation in these projects was canceled in 1993. Before the World Bank could pull out, the Indian Government did.\n\nShe undertook a similar fast in 1993 and resisted evacuation from the dam site. In 1994, the Narmada Bachao Andolan office was attacked reportedly by a couple of political parties, and Patkar and other activists were physically assaulted and verbally abused. In protest, a few NBA activists and she began a fast; 20 days later, they were arrested and forcibly fed intravenously.\n\nThe Sardar Sarovar Dam's construction began again in 1999 after the construction was allowed and was declared finished in 2006. It was inaugurated in 2017 by Prime Minister Narendra Damodardas Modi. Since construction in 2017, the height has been increased from 138 meters to 163 meters.\n\nThere were many groups such as Gujarat-based Narmada Asargrastha Samiti, Madhya Pradesh-based Narmada Ghati Nav Nirman Samiti (Committee for a New Life in the Narmada Valley) and Maharashtra-Based Narmada Dharangrastha Samiti (Committee for Narmada Dam-Affected People) who either believed in the need for fair rehabilitation plans for the people or who vehemently opposed dam construction despite a resettlement policy.\n\nNarmada Bachao Andolan was also joined by several NGOs with local people, professionals, and activists as the founders with a non-violent approach. It was led by Medha Patkar. Nationally, they wanted an alternative structure of development and internationally, they wanted to build pressure on the World Bank to take accountability.\n\nNBA's slogans include - Vikas Chahiye, Vinash Nahin! (Development wanted, not destruction) and \"koi nahi hatega, bandh nahi banega!\" (we won't move, the dam won't be constructed).\n\nThe World Bank began working on the Narmada Project after it got clearance from the Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal. The bank sent a team for the assessment of the project in economic and technical terms.</> This team didn't focus on the social or environmental issues. What Jawaharlal Nehru thought of as temples of the independent India, i.e. the dams, have already displaced 11 million Indians.\n\nHowever, the Bank realised the harm that it had done by sanctioning the loan for the project and thus announced that the new projects should \"ensure that, after a reasonable transition period, the displaced people regain at least their previous standard of living.\"</>World Bank Operational Manual Statement No. 2.33: Social Issues Associated with Involuntary Settlement in Bank-Financed Projects.</ref> Despite this, the relocation process was flawed. Several tribal people have been harmed by the project. The Bank then adopted certain policies to ensure proper relocation of the tribal people and protect them from the forced relocation . The Indian government, however, did not adopt these policies.\n\nIn 1985, irrespective of the harm done by the Sardar Sarovar project, the World bank sanctioned a loan to the state governments for construction purposes. The Bank did ask for a proper resettlement design but also said, \"The argument in favour of the Sardar Sarovar Project is that the benefits are so large that they substantially outweigh the costs of the immediate human and environmental disruption.\"\n\nMedha Patkar and other protesters testified on the Bank's role in Washington D.C in 1989. This led to a build-up of pressure on the Bank to set an independent review to assess the situation at hand. A lot of support was withdrawn from the project after this.\n\nThe Morse Commission was established to look into the construction of the dam, and the environmental cost and human displacement in 1991. For the first time, a Bank commissioned panel had complete access to the documents to form a report. The 357 pages' report mentioned the lack of any environmental assessment undertaken either by the Indian Government or the World Bank. In an internal referendum held, the Bank very closely voted for the continuation of the Narmada Dam Project.\n\nThe Indian Government canceled the loan sanctioned by the World Bank on March 31, 1993.\n\nMedha Patkar has been the guiding light of the movement. She has organized several fasts and satyagrahas. Patkar has also been to jail because of her desire to achieve right to life and livelihood for the suppressed people.\n\nAnother popular figure was Baba Amte, known for his work against leprosy. He published a booklet called \"Cry O Beloved Narmada\" in 1989 to protest against the construction of the dams.\n\nAmongst the major celebrities who have shown their support for Narmada Bachao Andolan are Booker Prize winner Arundhati Roy and Aamir Khan. It was also supported by music composer and bass guitarist in the band Indian Ocean, Rahul Ram, who was actively involved in the movement from 1990 to 1995. \n\nIn 1994 was the launch of \"Narmada: A Valley Rises\", by filmmaker Ali Kazimi. It documents the five-week Sangharsh Yatra of 1991. The film went on to win several awards and is considered by many to be a classic on the issue. In 1996, veteran documentary filmmaker, Anand Patwardhan, made an award-winning documentary: \"A Narmada Diary\". Alok Agarwal, current member of the Aam Aadmi Party, is an active figure in the movement.\n\nBihar CM Nitish Kumar participated in rally organised by NBA on the bank of Narmada at Rajghat on 16th Sep 2016. Expressing solidarity with the Andolan Mr. Nitish Kumar said \"I have come from Patna to extend support to the agitation on the side of river Narmada here\".\n\nSupporting the NBA's main demand CM Nitish Kumar appealed to PM Mr Modi at Rajghat saying \"Pradhan Mantri ji, don't close the gates of Sardar Sarovar Dam. Rehabilitate people not by giving cash, but giving them alternative land/employment. Don't make plans to drown 2.5 lakh people by closing the gates,\" he said in a statement released in Barwani.\n\nThe court ruled for Andolan, effecting an immediate stoppage of work at the dam and directing the concerned states to complete the rehabilitation and replacement process.\n\nIt deliberated on this issue further for several years and finally upheld the Tribunal Award and allowed the construction to proceed, subject to conditions. The court introduced a mechanism to monitor the progress of resettlement pari passu with the raising height of the dam through the Grievance Redressal Authorities (GRA) in each party state. The decision referred in this document, given in 2000 after 7 years of deliberations, has paved the way for completing the project to attain full envisaged benefits. The court's final line of the order states, \"Every endeavour shall be made to see that the project is completed as expeditiously as possible\".\n\nSubsequent to the verdict, Press Information Bureau (PIB) featured an article:\n\n\"The Narmada Bachao Andolaan (NBA)has rendered a yeoman's service to the country by creating a high-level of awareness about the environmental and rehabilitation and relief aspects of Sardar Sarovar and other projects on the Narmada. But, after the court verdict it is incumbent on it to adopt a new role. Instead of 'damning the dam' any longer, it could assume the role of vigilant observer to see that the resettlement work is as humane and painless as possible and that the environmental aspects are taken due care of.\"\n\nMedha Patkar continues to fight for proper rehabilitation of the displaced people in Madhya Pradesh as well as the reception of the promised compensation by the Narmada Tribunal. This movement has brought forth the different notions of development. The Indian government has often argued that the cost of displacements are outweighed by the benefit derived from the Narmada Project, and thus, justified its construction. NBA, on the other hand has argued no matter how large the benefits, the cost to the society cannot be fulfilled.\n\nCritics argue that dam's benefits include provision of drinking water, power generation and irrigation facilities. However, it is believed that the campaign, led by the NBA activists, has held up the project's completion, and NBA supporters have attacked on local people who accepted compensation for moving. Others have argued that the Narmada Dam protesters are little more than environmental extremists, who use pseudoscientific agitprop to scuttle the development of the region and that the dam will provide agricultural benefits to millions of poor in India. There had also been instances of the NBA activists turning violent and attacking rehabilitation officer from Narmada Valley Development Authority (NVDA), which caused damage to the contractor's machinery.\n\nThe NBA has been accused of lying under oath in court about land ownership in areas affected by the dam. The Supreme Court has mulled perjury charges against the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "44973046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44973046", "title": "National Council of Iran", "text": "National Council of Iran\n\nThe National Council of Iran (NCI; ), officially the\nNational Council of Iran for Free Elections, is a loosely based umbrella group of the exiled opposition to Iran's Islamic Republic government, and serves as Reza Pahlavi's government in exile either to reclaim the former throne or as the new president of Iran after overthrowing the current government.\n\nThe \"self-styled\" National Council claims bringing together \"tens of thousands of pro-democracy proponents from both inside and outside Iran\", spanning the ideological spectrum and representing the religious and ethnic minorities. According to Kenneth Katzman, the group which was established with over 30 groups has \"suffered defections and its activity level appears minimal\".\n"}
{"id": "44791696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44791696", "title": "National Popular Party (Romania)", "text": "National Popular Party (Romania)\n\nThe National Popular Party (, PNP) was an antifascist political party in Romania, founded during World War II as the underground Union of Patriots (\"Uniunea Patrioților\", UP). The latter had defined itself as a spontaneous movement of resistance to the dictatorial regime of Ion Antonescu, but was largely known as a front for the illegal Romanian Communist Party (PCdR, later PCR). Its founders—Dumitru Bagdasar, Gheorghe Vlădescu-Răcoasa, Simion Stoilow—were closely cooperating with PCdR men, but also with liberal opposition forces. Repressed by the authorities, the UP made a comeback after the pro-Allied August 23 Coup of 1944, when it endured as a small ally of the communists—mostly controlled directly by them, but sometimes rebellious.\n\nDefining itself as a party for the middle classes, the PNP sought to attract into its ranks both nationalists and ethnic minorities, and was used by the Communist Party as a means of weakening the traditional parties. From 1945, it registered its most significant successes among the repenting fascists, absorbing into its ranks former members of the Iron Guard. The UP and PNP were instrumental in helping the PCR reach some of its main objectives, including the overthrow of Nicolae Rădescu and the hastening of land reform.\n\nThe PNP was nominally loyal to King Michael I, but had no longer a part to play in decision-making when Michael was overthrown on the closing days of 1947. The party itself survived the 1948 election, but was dissolved by its leaders in early 1949, reportedly under pressure from the new government. Its former activists were either integrated into the structures of the communist state or repressed and, in some cases, imprisoned by the latter.\n\nThe UP's roots were planted in a semi-clandestine intellectual movement that opposed Antonescu's regime in general and, in particular, its support for Nazi Germany and the other Axis Powers, and its commitment to war against the Soviet Union. According to its own records, the UP emerged clandestinely in early 1942, centered on the activities of three left-leaning intellectuals: the brain surgeon Bagdasar, the sociologist Vlădescu-Răcoasa, and the mathematician Stoilow. As listed by historian Corneliu Crăciun, the group's explicit goals were: \"sabotaging the war industry, resisting the dispatch of men on the anti-Soviet front, organizing partisans into detachments, annulling the Vienna Diktat, peace with the USA, England and the USSR.\" Vlădescu-Răcoasa had a background in politics, initially as an affiliate of the Democratic Nationalists, then as an internationalist and antifascist with strong Marxist leanings. He had also been registered as a member of the Social Democratic Party (PSDR). Bagdasar was educated abroad, where he became inspired by American progressivism, while Stoilow had frequented meetings of pro-Allied intellectuals, some of whom supported the mainstream National Peasants' Party (PNȚ).\n\nOne of the first notable actions of the UP was publishing, starting with January 1943, the illegal newspaper \"România Liberă\", later joined by another antifascist organ, \"Lupta Patriotică\". The former was reportedly designed to appear in September–November 1942, but was discovered by the \"Siguranța\" police and could reemerge only in January of the next year. According to various accounts, the former newspaper was managed in Bucharest by George Ivașcu, on his spare time from editing the pro-Antonescu gazette \"Vremea\" and with only marginal interventions from the PCdR. Party historians claimed that the newspaper \"kept the popular masses informed\" on the growth of resistance, whereas Crăciun notes that its circulation was exceedingly small. However, historian Radu Păiușan claims that the UP's history can be traced back to a propaganda operation carried out later by Romanian communists exiled on Soviet territory: in January 1943, Leonte Răutu supposedly created the newspaper \"România Liberă\", and a radio station of the same name, with which the Soviets intended to give the impression of a rising antifascist movement in Romania.\n\nSeveral authors trace the original meeting between the UP and the PCdR to mid-1943. They refer to either the turn of tides on the front, after Stalingrad, or to involvement, in 1943, of PCdR men Constantin Agiu and Petre Constantinescu-Iași, who took it upon themselves to reorganize the Union from November 1943. The two were subsequently joined by other communists or communist sympathizers, including Mihai Levente, Mihai Magheru, and Stanciu Stoian. Vlădescu-Răcoasa was the first person identified as leader of the UP, while Agiu was designated Caretaker; Constantinescu-Iași and Bagdasar were tasked with co-opting intellectuals, while Levente served as the administrator and Magheru directed work in the provinces. Nicu Rădescu, the estranged and ill-reputed son of General Nicolae Rădescu, was also closely cooperating with both the PCdR and the UP.\n\nUnder this guidance, the UP contacted a group of high-ranking soldiers who were seeking to depose Antonescu, the most active of whom was Gheorghe Avramescu—who was at once an antifascist and anticommunist. The UP also left a historical record as a member of the PCdR's Patriotic Antihitlerite Front, which also included the revived Ploughmen's Front and two other small political groups: the Socialist Peasants' Party, the Hungarian People's Union (MADOSZ). The association pact was sealed in August 1943, after a secretive meeting in which the UP was represented by Bagdasar and an N. Dinulescu. Outside of the Front, the UP still maintained links with other opposition groups, and was especially close to left-wing Social Democrats (Ion Pas, Ștefan Voitec, Theodor Iordăchescu, Leon Ghelerter). Throughout 1943, Magheru, as UP representative, held talks with the PNȚ, aiming to \"create a broad coalition of the democratic and patriotic forces toward bring down the Antonescu regime\".\n\nSubsequently, the UP's Central Committee took residence in the same building as the PCdR archive, at the Wexler residence on Crângului Street 15, Bucharest. It soon reported having some thousands of members of all ethnic backgrounds, and representation in all the main cities, with most active cells in university towns and among schoolteachers' unions. It also touted its presence among the workers, especially those at the Romanian Railway Company, whom it encouraged on sabotage missions. According to official records, the first registered members also included Iorgu Iordan and Ștefan Vencov, with outside sympathizers such as Zevedei Barbu, Constantin Balmuș, Eduard and Florica Mezincescu, Mircea Florian, David Prodan, Teodor Bugnariu, Alexandru Graur, Constantin Daicoviciu, Constantin I. Parhon, Bazil Munteanu, and Mihai Ralea. Another version suggests that Zevedei Barbu, who was also a PCdR man, was helped by Alexandru Roșca with establishing a UP nucleus at Cluj University (which had relocated to Sibiu). All these records obscure the participation of the PNȚ which, through Ioan Hudiță, also claimed to have established this intellectual opposition movement.\n\nIn May 1943, \"Siguranța\" had captured an UP man, the statistician Mircea Biji, who was interrogated and agreed to cooperate, leading the authorities into UP safe houses. Later that year, the authorities issued an arrest warrant for psychologist Mihai Beniuc, identifying him as another UP liaison—in fact, Beniuc had yet to join the group, and was largely unaware of its activities. On December 15, the secret police organized its sting operation. At Crângului, it chanced upon a trove of PCdR documents, filed by Remus Koffler, with incriminating evidence about the UP. Several were arrested, including Vlădescu-Răcoasa and Magheru. The landowner Petru Groza, founder of the Ploughmen's Front, was also picked up, the documents having revealed that he was sponsoring the UP.\n\nIn all, fifty men and women suspected of UP membership or sympathies were subjected to a mass trial in first two months of 1944. While Groza's release was ordered by Antonescu himself, Vlădescu-Răcoasa found himself sentenced to 15 years of hard labor. The court found him guilty of \"endangering State order and security\". Similar sentences were handed to Zevedei Barbu, to Magheru, and to Magheru's wife Anca. Bagdasar, by then also a member of the PCdR, took charge of the UP, with Agiu taking a Central Committee seat. Before April 1944, the movement was involved in negotiations with the PNȚ and the PCdR-backed left-leaning circles of Iași. Together, they wrote an open letter of protest to Antonescu, asking for Romania's immediate withdrawal from the Eastern Front. On May 24, 1944, the Union also entered a \"National-Democratic Coalition\", alongside the National Liberal Party–Tătărescu, Groza's Front, the PSDR, the PSȚ, MADOSZ, and Petre Topa's Democratic Nationalists.\n\nIn March 1944, the PCdR had joined a pan-resistance National Democratic Bloc (BND), which also included the PNȚ, PSDR, and the National Liberal Party (PNL). Together with King Michael I and his court, the group carried out the August 23 Coup, resulting in Antonescu's arrest and the unilateral cession of war with the Allies. Just one day after the coup, Vlădescu-Răcoasa was freed and resumed political activities in the open, introduced by the party press as \"the combatant for Romanian freedom.\" On August 31, UP members were on hand at the rally held to greet the Red Army upon its entrance into Bucharest, the effective start of Soviet occupation.\n\nBy October 1944, when it had established chapters in all of sectors of Bucharest, the UP had moved its headquarters on Spătarului Street. This was a former hospice of the Wehrmacht, evacuated during the street fighting, and reportedly vandalized \"beyond belief\" by the UP's own members. While assuming a public face, the Union had to abandon its political newspaper: \"România Liberă\" was seized by the PCdR, and its first issue of this new series, presumed lost, was falsified by the PCR after 1972. In its stead, on September 15, the UP inaugurated \"Tribuna Poporului\", which was entrusted to George Călinescu, the literary historian and novelist. The UP also sponsored Călinescu's foreign-policy review, \"Lumea\".\n\nFollowing negotiations at the beginning of September, the Union absorbed the rump Socialist Party led by Vasile Anagnoste. On September 27, the UP and its former Patriotic Antihitlerite colleagues formed a political alliance called National Democratic Front (FND), which also comprised the PSDR. As UP envoys, Vlădescu-Răcoasa, Bagdasar and Stoilow held a seat each on the FND National Council. The new pact, comprising forces that were vastly unequal to each other, was sealed only after the communists had resumed their pressures on the PNL and PNȚ, both of which refused to join a long-term alliance. According to anticommunist diplomat Emil Ciurea, it pitted one of the PCdR's alliances (Antihitlerites, \"enriched by the arrival of [the PSDR] socialists\") against the other (BND).\n\nThroughout October, the UP was a participant in the PCdR-organized public rallies against the independent Premier, General Constantin Sănătescu, and his PNȚ and PNL ministers, accusing the cabinet of playing protector to war criminals. Vlădescu-Răcoasa was active in the intrigue, and, at a public rally held in Călărași, discussed the imperative of creating \"the new Romania at all costs\". On November 4, following a Soviet intervention, Sănătescu reshuffled his cabinet, with a third of the ministerial mandates, and sizable portions of provincial administrative offices, going to FND politicians. In newly liberated Northern Transylvania, this meant the UP's integration at the highest level of local government. The FND, cooperating with MADOSZ, contemplated making the region into an autonomous entity, and organized an executive Northern Transylvanian Committee that included two UP activists. This body was in conflict with the PNȚ and PNL, its rallies allegedly broken up by the Maniu Guards. Finally joining the UP, Beniuc was sent into the region, organizing new chapters for both the Union and the Ploughmen's Front.\n\nVlădescu-Răcoasa was briefly appointed Minister for Minority Affairs (renamed by him \"for Nationalities\"), serving until February 1945, after which he was demoted to Undersecretary. During December 1944, the FND was co-opted into the new cabinet formed by General Rădescu, but continued to air its tensions with the two liberal parties with which it shared power. The UP followed suit. Involved with Groza in Northern Transylvanian affairs, statistician Sabin Manuilă, a former PNȚ supporter and participant in the August 1944 Coup, was also welcomed into the UP, then appointed Undersecretary of State for Stately Organization. The party's reservoir of cadres expanded to include many intellectuals associated with Constantinescu-Iași, for instance Balmuș and Zevedei Barbu. The latter served as UP recruiter in Sibiu County. With Constantinescu-Iași, Balmuș served as a UP representative to assemblies commemorating Antonescu's antisemitic crimes. Also joining the UP was physicist Ilie G. Murgulescu, who edited the daily a UP regional mouthpiece in Banat.\n\nDuring that period, the UP involved itself in the campaign against Rădescu, headlined by the Communist Party (which was now known as PCR, rather than PCdR). They agitated for land reform and organized the campaign against price gouging. In Jiu Valley and Hunedoara County at large, the UP carried out \"democratic work\" in favor of miners' welfare, distributing food and setting up price control committees. Throughout the country, its activists joined hands with the Ploughmen's Front, redistributing to the peasants most of the plots that were over 50 hectares. By then, Nicu Rădescu and Levente were directly involved in the effort to create and illegally arm a communist-controlled paramilitary force, the Patriotic Combat Formations (\"Formațiunile de Luptă Patriotică\", FLP). Literary critic Niculae Gheran, who was involved with the UP paramilitary as a teenager, recalls that the atmosphere was still largely apolitical, and that the formations were set out to eradicate criminality. The \"game of cops and robbers\" ended when Eugen Alimănescu of the Bucharest Police took control of the situation, with crude but effective methods.\n\nAs a witness to the political crisis, King Michael probably contemplated replacing Rădescu with the old UP associate, General Avramescu. The latter had earned distinction in the Siege of Budapest, and was respected by the Red Army, but evidently resented Soviet interference. Vlădescu-Răcoasa noted Avramescu's acceptance of the FND program, but the PCdR refused to take him into consideration. Meanwhile, the demonstrations turned violent on February 24, when communists staged an assault on the Internal Affairs Ministry and were pushed back. Several protesters were killed by gunshot, but later investigation uncovered that the bullets were not of the standard caliber used in the Ministry. Nicu Rădescu, who was hiding out at the UP's headquarters, participated in the propaganda effort, publicly accusing his father of murder.\n\nOn March 6, 1945, Groza eventually managed to topple Premier Rădescu, who escaped to British Cyprus, and set up a communist-dominated cabinet, with Constantinescu-Iași as the new Information Minister. Also joining the cabinet as the UP's appointees was Grigore Vasiliu Rășcanu, the Minister of War. Bagdasar was appointed Minister of Health, and, as a technocrat tasked with managing the nationwide health crisis, earned the respect of his political adversaries.\n\nGeneral Avramescu, meanwhile, was killed in a mysterious incident on the Slovakian front, most likely kidnapped and shot by the Soviets. The UP resumed its orthodox political stance. Rădescu's son, by then a card-carrying communist, was tasked with purging the Union of political undesirables, then assigned over to the \"Siguranța\", which he helped transform into the Securitate. At the time, the UP also organized its religious wing for \"highly conscious\" Orthodox priests, called Union of Democratic Priests (\"Uniunea Preoților Democrați\", UPD) and led by the UP's Minister of Religious Affairs, Constantin Burducea.\n\nOn November 8, 1945, Groza's military and paramilitary forces repressed a popular demonstration marking the anniversary of Michael I, who was still the raining monarch. As noted by historian Ioan Lăcustă, these events ended in \"a bloodbath\", ordered by Groza's Interior Minister, Teohari Georgescu. According to PNȚ investigators such as Corneliu Coposu, the UP was directly involved, asking its activists to stage a counter-manifestation in Palace Square, and to prevent the monarchists from reaching the Square. The UP's press made ample reference to the events, reinterpreting them according to communist guidelines, whereas the independent newspapers were barred from even reporting on them.\n\nOn January 12–13, 1946, the UP held a national congress at Trianon Cinema, Bucharest, after which it reemerged as the \"National Popular Party\". Also at that meeting, it elected itself a new president, the economist Mitiță Constantinescu. He was seconded by Vlădescu-Răcoasa, Bagdasar, and Oțetea. On March 19 or 20, the National Populars inaugurated their own official news outlet, \"Națiunea\". Editorship was assigned to Călinescu, who was in the process of adapting his work to Marxist doctrines, and was by then a member of the PNP Executive Committee. It heralded radical attacks against the political opposition, from the disgraced far-right to the PNȚ. For a while, the newspaper still preserved a nominal independence in the selection of its literary staff, publishing the essays of Adrian Marino and Alexandru Piru, which were still untouched by the communist style.\n\nWith assistance from its communist backers, the PNP soon began a large recruitment campaign. Among those who signed up were several famous literary and scientific figures, including poet Alexandru A. Philippide, historian Andrei Oțetea, and biologist Traian Săvulescu; literary critic Mihai Gafița, a former PNL man, was its students' wing representative. In Murgulescu's Banat sections, new recruits included General Teodor Șerb (President of the PNP Chapter in Timiș-Torontal County), physicist Valeriu Novacu (who went on to serve as County Prefect), poet Alexandru Jebeleanu, and industrialists Jacques Hellmann and Anton Hollander.\n\nLike the Alexandrescu Peasantists, the PNP was specifically dedicated to undermining the PNȚ, that is to say the PCdR's most powerful opponent. Constantinescu-Iași recalled that, even in 1943, the UP was working to \"set up opposition groups within the PNȚ\", but \"in such a manner that no group would be torn away from the party\". As noted by political scientist Ioan Stanomir, the party was later a tool used by the PCdR \"to gnaw at the PNȚ before they ultimately dissolved it\". This campaign was sparked in 1944 by a broadcast on Radio Moscow. By 1946, the PNP had only managed to absorb remnants of the interwar Radical Peasants' Party, who had refused to rejoin the PNȚ.\n\nThe recruitment drive was punctuated by episodes of dissent. Jebeleanu was almost removed from the party after he was found to be an insubordinate propagandist. More embarrassingly, the PNP failed to enlist Lucian Blaga, the celebrated poet-philosopher. Blaga admitted feeling terrorized by direct threats to his artistic independence, and, at the risk of marginalization, opted not to join (or, according to another version, joined, was immediately made a member of the PNP Central Committee, and just as immediately resigned). Burducea, perceived by Groza as a political liability, was also sacked from his ministerial position, and the UPD chairmanship was assigned to an Ion Vască.\n\nOn March 22–24, 1946, the PNP held its annual reunion in Bucharest, culminating in a popular assembly presided upon by Oțetea. On May 16, the PNP was co-opted by a communist-led electoral alliance, the Bloc of Democratic Parties (BPD). In early November, its representative in the Assembly of Deputies and PNP General Secretary, a Mihail Dragomirescu, played a central part in the sessions which condemned and pushed aside a minor PCR ally, the National Liberal Party–Tătărescu. However, there were notable setbacks for the PNP, including the sudden disappearance of Călinescu's \"Lumea\". Also in May, Bagdasar resigned as Health Minister and took a diplomatic posting, but died of cancer before he could take office. In September of that year, his widow Florica Bagdasar made history by becoming the first ever Romanian woman minister, after being assigned the Health portfolio. Mitiță Constantinescu also died at that time, prompting the PNP executive to elect Vlădescu-Răcoasa in his place.\n\nIn the general election of November 1946, which was rigged through fraud and voter intimidation, the Bloc claimed a decisive victory. However, the PNP only had a minor role to play in the campaign, with a reported 7% of the BPD candidates. The BPD and MADOSZ had counted 79.86% of the vote in its favor, obtaining 378 of the 414 total Assembly of Deputies seats, of which the PNP held 26. Constantinescu-Iași ran and won as head of the electoral list in Tutova County, returning to serve as Information Minister; Florica Bagdasar was elected in Tulcea County, and continued to serve as the Health Minister until August 1948. She sat in the Assembly next to Călinescu, who had been elected in Botoșani County. Other PNP deputies included Vlădescu-Răcoasa, Oțetea, historian Dumitru Almaș, and General Secretary Dragomirescu, who represented Timiș-Torontal.\n\nThe PNP withdrew from the Groza cabinet on November 29, 1946, in protest at what it felt was its under-representation. It found itself in an unusual situation as the loyal opposition to the BPD, stating its refusal to attack any of the Bloc's politicians. Both Bagdasar and Săvulescu continued to serve in the cabinet, the latter as Agriculture Minister. The PNP's withdrawal from power, and its general subservience to the BPD, were noted factors of stress at a local level. However, it was able to attract more followers with the dissolution of Constantin Argetoianu's National Union of Labor and Rebirth (UNMR). Two of the latter's pro-communist wings were absorbed at the time: the UNMR tradesmen wing, under Petre Misale, and the formerly independent National Agrarian Action, directed by Paul Iliescu and Max Schapira.\n\nIn July 1947, after the Tămădău Affair and news of an anti-communist partisan movement, PNP representatives supported the communist motion to outlaw the PNȚ. Moreover, \"Națiunea\" and Călinescu himself joined in the denunciation campaign, publishing propaganda pieces that maligned the imprisoned PNȚ-ists. Other party members used their last opportunity to escape the country: Manuilă settled in the United States, Zevedei Barbu defected in Scotland. During the following months, the PNP was in favor of a bill that politicized and de-professionalized the justice system, introducing juries selected from among the \"workers and toiling peasants\" by their respective trade unions and corporate bodies.\n\nIn November, Vlădescu-Răcoasa became Ambassador to Moscow, which was perceived as a \"posting of overwhelming importance\" in that context. Still the PNP president, he was abroad when the communists imposed abdication on King Michael and proclaimed the People's Republic. On February 1, 1948, the PNP resumed its activities in the new republic: the Bucharest branch of the PNP elected Balmuș as its chairman. While still serving abroad, Vlădescu-Răcoasa was appointed by the Assembly of Deputies, reformed into the rubber-stamp Great National Assembly, to a committee drafting a socialist constitution.\n\nThe PNP remained closely aligned with the Romanian Workers' Party (PMR), as the PCR styled itself after absorbing the Social Democrats. From February 1948, it was part of the People's Democratic Front (FPD), an electoral alliance formed with the PMR, the Ploughmen's Front, and MADOSZ. Constantinescu-Iași, Dragomirescu, and Alexandru Șteflea were its delegates on the FPD National Council. The subsequent elections were advertised by PMR leader Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej as a consolidation of \"democratic conquests against imperialism\", destined to \"nip in the bud all attempts by the reaction to rear its head\". Two decorative opposition forces were allowed to survive outside the FPD: the (reorganized) Tătărescu Liberals and the Peasants' Party–Lupu. The Front won 405 of the 414 seats, of which the PNP had 43. Vlădescu-Răcoasa, Almaș, Balmuș, Călinescu, Constantinescu-Iași, Oțetea and Săvulescu were among those returned to parliament.\n\nElected as the last PNP president, Constantinescu-Iași was also designated a Vice President of the Great National Assembly. However, the PNP survived until voting itself out of existence on February 6, 1949. The official notice informed its voters that, \"under the watch of the Workers' Party\", the PNP had \"carried out the better part of its task\", and that \"to carry on as a separate organization would be an act of seclusion.\" As Călinescu explained, in \"Națiunea\", the party and its newspaper's \"historical mission\" had been exhausted. Literary historian George Neagoe argues that this was a \"public lie\", as the PNP, a party of \"fellow travelers\", had not truly opted to dissolve itself; it was rather \"discarded by its ally\".\n\nUntil March 21, 1949, all regional chapters had been dissolved, and PNP deputies resumed their seats as independents. His influence greatly reduced, Constantinescu-Iași continued to serve in the Groza governments, and was Minister of Religious Affairs in 1953; Călinescu was likewise sidelined, maintaining some of his political functions but prevented from popularizing his unorthodox interpretations of Marxist dogma and world affairs. In 1959, he was almost arrested for \"enemy-like behavior\". Vlădescu-Răcoasa was also recalled from Moscow, and, assigned to minor positions, had to watch on as the regime suppressed, then confiscated, Romanian sociology. Florica Bagdasar was eliminated from political life by 1953, when she was also attacked in the press as a \"cosmopolitan\". Instead, Oțetea accumulated accolades and, as an official historian, signaled the 1964 break with the Soviets, revealing to the public the anti-Russian pronunciations of Marxist classics.\n\nSeveral suppliant members of the Communist Party's Central Committee, down to the Romanian Revolution of 1989, and including Levente and Gheorghe Mihoc, had been activists in the original UP. \"România Liberă\"s Ivașcu rose through the ranks of the PMR until, owing to a case of mistaken identity, was prosecuted for war crimes, imprisoned, then rehabilitated and again assigned party work. Contrarily, Nicu Rădescu was tempted by a career in the repressive apparatus. He was sacked from the Securitate in 1956 for his disregard of decorum, and began a second career as a Centrocoop functionary, dying in anonymity in 1993.\n\nThe UP and PNP functioned mainly as a testing ground for the PCdR, filtering its future members and making its ideology palatable to the general public. Many scholars see the UP/PNP as mainly a front for the exceedingly minor PCdR, variously describing it as \"rather decorative\", \"something resembling a party\", an \"electioneering vent\", an \"organization designed to fulfill the communists' objectives\", a \"diversion\", \"instrument\" or \"windscreen\", and a \"quasi-party\". Literary historian and former communist politician Pavel Țugui disagrees: with an \"antifascist and antiracist program\", standing for \"various democratic orientations\", the UP \"did not form any alliances with any party whatsoever between 1942 and spring 1944.\" He notes that the collaboration with the communists should be seen as one between \"two distinct political and organizational entities\", with the UP on the center-left.\n\nInitially, the UP itself acknowledged that it had a short-term role, presenting itself not as a party, but as a big tent movement of antifascists and PCdR members, irrespective of ethnicity, social class, or creed. Members called each other \"prieten\" (\"friend\"), mirroring the communist \"tovarăș\" (\"comrade\"). In a December 1944 address to the people, Novacu presented the August 23 Coup as top-down seizure of power, rather than as a popular revolution, which could only \"impel and enrich the populace\". At around the same time, Vlădescu-Răcoasa was claiming that, in the \"new world\", it would matter not whether \"one is a bourgeois or a proletarian, but if one is a democrat\". The one \"true democracy\", he indicated, was a people's democracy. He also stated that the UP was not about distributing \"posts and ministries.\"\n\nThe UP also sought to profit from the introduction of women's suffrage, putting out a manifesto specifically aimed at women voters. Critical of \"vain feminism\", it proposed equal responsibilities for women in the effort to reconstruct Romania. A female activist, Cornelia Sterian, also explained that \"woman must become equal in rights, she must play an active part in the political struggle for a free and fulfilling life.\" A Bucharest female section had been formed by 1946, animated by Margareta Vlădescu-Răcoasa and by Mihail Sadoveanu's wife Valeria.\n\nIn its later electoral manifestos, the UP called itself \"a political organization in support of the people\", consolidating \"an independent, democratic and merry Romania\", emerging naturally from \"the movement of resistance against the Hitlerites and the Antonescu dictatorship\". By then, the movement advertised a more specific corporate goal, namely \"the democratization of the middle classes\". These were taken to include all categories between the proletariat (represented by the PCdR) and the \"rich bankers, great landlords, dealers and speculators\" it claimed were represented by the PNȚ and PNL; more specifically, the PNP was supposed to stand for professional workers, artisans, traders, industrialists, functionaries, pensioners, and freelancers. Writing about the accomplished \"historical mission\" of 1949, George Călinescu explained that it consisted of \"educating non-proletarian working strata to understand and receive the coming social order.\"\n\nReviewing such claims, Păiușan argues that the PNP's objectives interfered with those of other FND members: the Ploughmen's Front and the Alexandrescu Peasantists existed specifically to draw in \"the urban middle class.\" As noted by Lucian Blaga, its putative member, the PNP manifestly failed at becoming \"an independent autonomous party of the petty bourgeoisie\", and was simply \"a maneuverable mass\".\n\nAs noted by historian Carol Terteci, the UP shared a BPD platform of \"populist promises\". Party notables took pride in asserting that the BPD's program was largely inspired by its own charter, and thus \"closest to the soul of the masses.\" A 1945 manifesto in Bârlad called on UP members to \"erect a country where there would be no more poor people on this rich a land.\" With its involvement in the PCdR's war on price gauging, the PNP was soon identified as an anti-capitalist force by the middle class and the industrialists, who were reticent about joining its ranks. The UP tried to dissuade their fears, assuring them that the measures were only temporary. The PNȚ had some success in identifying the PNP as a front of the PCdR: PNP territorial offices complained that Nationalist Peasantist propaganda on this topic was driving away potential recruits.\n\nPăiușan describes the UP as an organization which \"betrayed the country\" by \"turning Romanians against the anti-Bolshevik war and sealing a pact with the Soviet enemy.\" When addressing a Romanian public, the National Populars took on the promotion of left-wing nationalism. Party speakers argued that \"the criminal fascist war\" offered \"an occasion for verifying one's patriotism\", and held that fascists \"exploited patriotic sentiment\", \"poisoning the soul of the people\". Writing in \"Lupta Patriotică\", Novacu theorized that: \"Motherland and patriotism stand for combat and sacrifice for mankind's permanent ideals. For liberty and independence, for one's language, art, for one's credo, one's bread, for our factories and our fields.\" Despite the UP's involvement in Northern Transylvanian regionalism, its leadership in Banat alleged that the PNȚ was only superficially and opportunistically patriotic. It also declared itself against Hungarian \"revisionism\" or \"venomous chauvinism\" in general. The Northern Transylvanian issue was solved in Romania's favor, according to PNP sources, only because of \"the unconditioned help of our great Eastern friend, the USSR, and our old friend, France.\"\n\nThe UP and later the PNP were formally dedicated to purging the country of fascists, in particular former members of the Iron Guard. In practice, the UP proved immediately attractive for a category of former wartime fascists, and especially for Guardist sympathizers within the Orthodox Church. Notorious examples include the Religious Affairs Minister, Constantin Burducea and Religious Affairs Undersecretary Ion Vască, whose fascist past was a tool for extortion. Burducea had it that the Church was compatible with socialism, and that the FND was not \"godless\": \"How could one hold suspicions of anti-Christian or anti-religious sentiment the FND's sincerely democratic parties, when the Front works for the brotherhood of all men, for bringing the Gospel to life within this nation, and for toppling hatred, injustice, obscurantism and social inequality?\"\n\nAs Burducea's patron, Constantinescu-Iași extended his protection to one other PNP sympathizer and former Guardist, the bishop Antim Nica, who in turn sought to protect his colleagues by directing them into the party. Constantinescu-Iași also negotiated with Guard representatives such as Petre Țuțea to have its members join the PCdR and the UP en masse. Other efforts involved a former high-ranking figure in the Guard, historian P. P. Panaitescu, who similarly urged his former subordinates to make their way into the UP. In Putna County, that is to say Vlădescu-Răcoasa's own fief, the PNP chapter was weakened by disputes over the fascist past of its leaders, including its local secretary, the Orthodox priest Streche. Other PNP members of the far-right clergy, exposed by the Workers' Party only after 1949, included a head of the clergy syndicate in Baia County. In 1945, a circular letter presented to Teohari Georgescu of Internal Affairs estimated that there were 110 Guardists co-opted by the UP.\n\nThe UP was especially active among the ethnic minorities, which were the focus of Vlădescu-Răcoasa's time in office. The PNP heralded denazification among the Banat Swabians, protecting some Swabians who, it claimed, were wrongly prosecuted by the People's Tribunals, while targeting others who supported the anti-communist opposition. Its relationship with the ethnic Hungarians was more tense, despite official rhetoric encouraging cooperation: the UP's Bihor County cell divided itself into competing cells, representing the region's ethnic groups, and was sabotaged by its MADOSZ allies. In February 1945, it voted to bar Hungarians from joining its ranks.\n\nThe communists also experimented by creating a parallel, UP-modeled, organization of Armenian Romanians. Called Union of Armenian Patriots (or Armenian Front), it drew Armenians away from the anti-Soviet Dashnaktsutyun. A similar body existed for exiled Spanish Republicans, who voted Vlădescu-Răcoasa as their honorary president.\n\nThe PNP had a more ambiguous stance concerning the Jewish and Romani communities, which had been the victims of deportation and murder during the Holocaust. During the Antonescu years, UP founder Manuilă had in fact come up with the project to deport Jews and Romanies into occupied Transnistria, singling them out as \"stateless\" communities. When this had been enforced, however, he had protected some 5,000 Jews, keeping them in Bucharest. In 1943, the UP participants in Patriotic Antihitlerite meetings argued that: \"The Jewish group must have its own commission to allow the Jews to take care of purely Jewish issues.\" Nevertheless, at official commemorations, PNP activists downplayed the historical impact of episodes such as the Iași pogrom of 1941, noting that, \"other than the minor misunderstandings that are inherent to life in common, one can say that [Jews] have been fully embraced by their friends, the Romanian people.\"\n\nSpeaking in February 1946, the communist politico Vasile Luca set his PNP partners the goal of attracting as many as possible from the 150,000 Jewish voters still living in Romania. Vlădescu-Răcoasa clashed with the Zionists when, in November 1944, he announced that Jews would not be recognized as a distinct minority, but instead assimilated into their group of choice.\n\nEven in its late years, PNP officials expressed a \"belief in the eternal life of the Romanian Monarchy.\" This resolution passed into its statues, where \"the recognition of the Monarchy\" was one of the core ideas. Although it adopted a pro-Soviet policy that Păiușan sees as \"treasonous\", the UP included, at its original core, supporters of the Western Allies such as Bagdasar and Ivașcu. The Bagdasars worked closely with American officials in the Allied Commission, and were upset that Romania was prevented from joining the Marshall Plan.\n\nBeyond its national representation and its trans-ethnic agenda, the PNP remained a minor and recessive force. As noted by Corneliu Crăciun, it was always less powerful than the Patriotic Defense, a workers' aid organization also gravitating around the PCdR, and also organized as a paramilitary wing. The UP's 1944 recruitment drive in Bihor, which was still nominally held by a rump Hungarian state, only managed some 200 enlistments, of which 150 were inactive members. Only 40 card-carrying members still existed in 1945, after Hungarians and Jews were expelled from the party. Likewise, in Cluj County, the UP was preferred by Romanian communist sympathizers, with the PCdR section dominated by Hungarians. In Putna, the UP only mustered some 1,700 members in all (compared to the 6,000 enlisted with the Alexandrescu Peasantists, but well ahead of the PCdR's 400). The Timiș-Torontal section, presided over by General Teodor Șerb, had some 2,000 to 2,500 members, the majority of whom were male peasants, with no representation for women and youth.\n\nAs a corollary of its dependence on the PCdR, the party was heavily infiltrated by communist cells—the PCdR's own circulars commended the Putna cell as highly \"dynamic\". In Bihor, the UP was directly managed by a communist envoy, Imre Tóth. These policies divided the party. Some in the PNP struggled to maintain the party's independence, insisting on its independent status, \"with equal rights within the Bloc of Democratic Parties\". In 1946, the Severin County chapter unanimously passed a resolution ruling the communists' transgressions as \"inadmissible and impolite\".\n\nThe PNP also reported on abuses committed by paramilitary \"citizens' guards\", which, it implied, were terrorizing the populace, while activists such as Bagdasar expressed bafflement over the anti-Peasantist rhetorical violence. In early 1946, Călinescu and \"Națiunea\" demanded a \"purge of the purgers\", that is to say a toning down of repression against political undesirables. Father Burducea's unwavering support for their activities alienated the clergy, many of whom resented and mocked him; this matter contributed to his sacking. Seeing the BPD as an authoritarian instrument, members deserted in significant numbers during 1947, and some even became involved with a group of anti-communist partisans, formed by Gheorghe Arsenescu in Muscel County.\n"}
{"id": "17476334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17476334", "title": "Nepal Woman Association", "text": "Nepal Woman Association\n\nNepal Woman Association is the woman wing of Nepali Congress.\n\nNepal Woman Association was formed by Mangala Devi Singh, the pioneer of Nepalese woman movement. It is the first female political organization of Nepal.\n"}
{"id": "6541124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6541124", "title": "Nobody (username)", "text": "Nobody (username)\n\nIn many Unix variants, \"nobody\" is the conventional name of a user account which owns no files, is in no privileged groups, and has no abilities except those which every other user has. Some systems also define an equivalent group \"nogroup\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11854514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11854514", "title": "Party for a European Future", "text": "Party for a European Future\n\nThe Party for a European Future (Macedonian: Партија за Европска Иднина, \"Partija za Evropska Idnina\") is a political party in the Republic of Macedonia which largely represents the Macedonian Muslims.\n\nAt the last legislative elections, 5 July 2006, the party won 1 out of 120 seats. The party ran on the elections held on 1 June 2008, and again won 1 seat in the parliament. In the 2011 elections, it lost that seat.\n\nLeader of the party is Fijat Canoski.\n"}
{"id": "12435365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12435365", "title": "Queensland Labor Party", "text": "Queensland Labor Party\n\nThe Queensland Labor Party (QLP) was a political party of Queensland, Australia formed in 1957 by a breakaway group of the then ruling Labor Party Government after the expulsion of Premier Vince Gair. In 1962 the party became the Queensland section of the Democratic Labor Party (DLP). The party continued to hold seats in the Queensland state parliament until 1972, then suffered a collapse in its vote and wound itself up in 1978.\n\nIn Queensland, Vince Gair became Labor leader and premier in 1952. \nThe Central Executive of the ALP expelled Gair on 24 April 1957 because of his support of the Groupers. A total of 25 Labor MLAs left the party with him, including all the Cabinet except Deputy Premier Jack Duggan, to form the Queensland Labor Party. The two ex-Labor Independents joined the QLP. The ALP was left with 23 members with Duggan as leader. The Country and Liberal Parties had a combined 24 seats.\n\nGair tried to gain Country Party support for his minority government, but talks with Frank Nicklin broke down when federal Country Party leader Arthur Fadden told Nicklin that he had a chance to become Premier himself. On 12 June, the ALP, now led by Duggan, voted to deny \"supply\" (that is, the money needed to govern) to what was left of the Gair government. The Country-Liberal Coalition moved to block supply as well and brought the government down. \n\nA state election was called for 3 August 1957. At that time, Queensland had a unicameral parliament which was elected by first-past-the-post rather than the present preferential voting system. Since all sitting ALP and QLP members were opposed by a candidate from the other faction, the Labor vote was split in many seats. While the Coalition actually suffered a small swing against it, the large number of three-cornered contests resulted in the ALP and QLP losing seats to the Coalition. The two Labor factions won only 31 seats between them to the Coalition's 42 (up from 24 previously). The QLP won 23.4% of the vote, second behind Labor, and 11 of the 75 seats. Nicklin became Premier and for the first time in 25 years and only the second time since 1915, a Labor Government was out of office in Queensland. Gair himself was reelected in South Brisbane.\n\nAt the 1960 state election, the QLP won only four seats, with even Gair losing his seat. Gair stood for the Senate in 1961 for the QLP, but was unsuccessful. Gair's QLP merged with the Democratic Labor Party (DLP) in 1962 to become the Queensland branch of the DLP. However this decision split the state parliamentarians with two, Bunny Adair and Ted Walsh, opposing joining the DLP and instead becoming independent members. At the 1963 state election preferential voting was reintroduced. This enabled the DLP to not only draw votes away from the ALP, but also to direct their preferences to the Coalition. Gair became federal DLP leader in 1964, after his election to the Senate. From the 1963 election, the party's support in Queensland slipped below 8%, and the party retained only one seat in Queensland's unicameral parliament. The party's electoral support remained at about that level until the 1972 election when its last seat was lost in a redistribution. The DLP lost its raison d'être after 1972 when Labor won office at the federal level. At the time the state Country Party explored a merger with the DLP as part of a strategy of seeking greater unity with groups opposed to the federal Labor government, but this plan was soon abandoned. The DLP went into further decline in 1974 when Gair was forced to resign from the party as a result of the so-called Gair Affair. At the 1974 state election, the DLP did not contest all seats, and recorded only 1.91% of the vote. The DLP did not contest the 1977 state election and ceased to exist in 1978. \n\nThe ALP would remain in opposition in Queensland, even after the QLP and its successor the DLP had ceased to exist, returning to government in 1989 with Wayne Goss as leader.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7665904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7665904", "title": "Rump state", "text": "Rump state\n\nA rump state is the remnant of a once much larger state, left with a reduced territory in the wake of secession, annexation, occupation, decolonization, or a successful coup d'état or revolution on part of its former territory. In the latter case, a government stops short of going into exile because it still controls part of its former territory. For example, after the Qing Empire assumed control over most of China, the previous Ming Empire turned to resistance in the south as a rump state until its eventual conquest.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45577157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45577157", "title": "Seven Men of Knoydart", "text": "Seven Men of Knoydart\n\nThe Seven Men of Knoydart was the name given to a group of squatters who tried to appropriate land at Knoydart in 1948 by the press at the time, evoking the memory of the seven Jacobites who accompanied the Young Pretender on his voyage to Scotland in 1745. Comprising seven ex-servicemen, their claim was to be the last land raid in Scotland.\n\nAt the end of the 18th-century, a population of around 1,000 eked out a living on the Knoydart peninsula, through a mixture of crofting and fishing. Depopulation of the area began in August 1853, when the recently widowed Josephine MacDonnell forced the eviction of some 330 people to Canada, on board the \"Sillery\", to make way for sheep. Depopulation of the area continued with a series of evictions as successive landowners ran the property as a hunting and shooting estate.\n\nBy 1948 Knoydart was under the ownership of Lord Brocket, who was controversial for his fascist activities. His estates were used for entertaining supporters of Germany and Brocket became a committed member of the Anglo-German Fellowship, and known in society as a Nazi sympathiser. \n\nOn 9 November, the seven men, Henry MacAskill, Archie MacDonald, Archie MacDougall, Jack MacHardy, Duncan McPhail, Sandy Macphee and William Quinnall, invoking the Land Settlement Act, which permitted \"returning servicemen to take over land which was under-used and farm it as their own\". As veterans of the Second World War, they had been fighting to defend Britain against the fascist regimes in Germany and elsewhere. The seven men marked out of arable land and of hill land upon which to settle.\n\nThe raid followed a pattern set by the Highland Land League some seventy years before, and inspired by similar land-raids at the end of the Great War on Raasay and the Long Isle, when returning soldiers drew public attention to the misuse and mismanagement of land.\n\nAlthough the raiders had public opinion on their side, Lord Brocket succeeded in obtaining a court order to remove them. The raiders' case was heard and rejected by a Court of Enquiry called by the government early in 1949. An appeal by the men to the Secretary of State also failed.\n\nA cairn commemorating the land raid was erected at Inverie in 1991, by the Knoydart Land Raid Commemoration Committee. The plaque reads:\n\nThe reign of absentee landlords in Knoydart came to an end in the 1980s, when Surrey property dealer Phillip Rhodes acquired the estate and began selling off sections. The last 17,000 acres were bought by Jute manufacturing company Titaghur, and when the company went into receivership the land was acquired by the Knoydart Foundation in a community led buy-out.\n"}
{"id": "36712986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36712986", "title": "Signed and Encrypted Email Over The Internet", "text": "Signed and Encrypted Email Over The Internet\n\nThe Signed and Encrypted Email Over the Internet (SEEOTI) initiative is an approach to providing small and medium enterprises with the ability to communicate securely with one another, government defence ministries and major aerospace and defence contractors, allowing them to play a full part in the defence supply chain.\n\nSEEOTI implements the secure email specifications defined by the Transglobal Secure Collaboration Program (TSCP). These support interoperable signing and encryption of email messages in a federated environment. In addition, the security labelling of email messages is supported with a network border guard being able to check labels even though messages are encrypted. This meets the goal of protecting Intellectual Property in the global business environment, which is of particular importance to the UK Cyber Security Strategy as intellectual property is seen as key to the growth of the economy.\n\nDeep-Secure organised a trial of SEEOTI for UK MOD and the UK Council for Electronic Business. This integrated Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) products from TITUS, Boldon James and Deep-Secure to provide the system's email security functionality. Deep-Secure were selected as the overall winner of the UKCeB Excellence Awards 2011 for their work on SEEOTI in February 2012. Deep-Secure and its partners Adept4, Intercede and Trustis are providing a SEEOTI solution as a service. Nexor provide compatible products.\n"}
{"id": "8811775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8811775", "title": "Socialist Party of Great Britain debates", "text": "Socialist Party of Great Britain debates\n\nDebates between the Socialist Party of Great Britain and other groups were of particular importance in bringing the party case to an outside audience without the sometimes off-putting rhetoric of platform speaking, or the one-sidedness of educational talks. A prime instance of this importance for the party is the case of Richard Headicar, a former Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament speaker, won over after debating with the party. Of rather wider historical importance were the debates with the Revolutionary Communist Party in the late 1940s. In the course of these Sammy Cash persuaded the RCP’s Jock Haston of the state capitalist nature of the Soviet Union. The idea was then relayed to Tony Cliff, from which it formed the genesis of the Socialist Workers Party.\n\nDebates were not a major part of Socialist Party of Great Britain propaganda until the 1930s, reliance being instead put on outdoor speaking, particularly at established street corner venues (as can be seen, debates at outdoor venues were not however unknown). The Indian Summer of SPGB debating was clearly in the 1980s, with a range and number never previously seen. In the last ten years debating has virtually ceased to be an element of SPGB propaganda.\n\nIt was in fact the only Marxist group in Britain (in Germany, the Communist Party of Germany engaged in such debates) that would share a platform to debate against those from the far right such as Probyn, Goulding and Raven Thompson from the British Union of Fascists and Denis Pirie from the National Front.\n\nIt may be noted that until the 1970s at least, debates, like lectures and talks, were primarily held in the winter months. Although obviously skewed towards London, it is obvious just how concentrated in the capital SPGB activity has been.\n\nThis is not a full list since many debates, particularly in the early years, went unreported in the \"Socialist Standard\", the main source of information.\n"}
{"id": "22701390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22701390", "title": "Stafford Hospital scandal", "text": "Stafford Hospital scandal\n\nThe Stafford Hospital scandal concerns poor care and high mortality rates amongst patients at the Stafford Hospital, Stafford, England, in the late 2000s. The hospital was run by the Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust, and supervised by the West Midlands Strategic Health Authority. It has been renamed County Hospital.\n\nJulie Bailey, whose mother died in her home, in 2007, started a campaign called Cure the NHS to demand changes in the hospital. She was supported by the Staffordshire Newsletter, but the Public and Patient Involvement Forum and the Governors of the Trust were defensive.\n\nThe scandal came to national attention because of an investigation by the Healthcare Commission in 2008 into the operation of Stafford Hospital in Stafford, England. The commission was first alerted by the \"apparently high mortality rates in patients admitted as emergencies\". When the Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust, which is responsible for running the hospital, failed to provide what the commission considered an adequate explanation, a full-scale investigation was carried out between March and October 2008. Released in March 2009, the commission's report severely criticised the Foundation Trust's management and detailed the appalling conditions and inadequacies at the hospital. Many press reports suggested that because of the substandard care between 400 and 1200 more patients died between 2005 and 2008 than would be expected for the type of hospital, based on figures from a mortality model, but the final Healthcare Commission report concluded it would be misleading to link the inadequate care to a specific number or range of numbers of deaths. An independent 2008 study into hospital standardised mortality ratios found that this measure, as developed by the Dr Foster Unit at Imperial College, is prone to methodological bias, and that it was not credible to claim that variation in mortality ratios reflects differences in quality of care. In 2015, The Guardian amended an article from 2013:...subsequent investigations into the poor care at Stafford hospital, including the two reports by Sir Robert Francis QC, said that this disputed estimate, which appeared only in a draft report from 2009 by the Healthcare commission and was based on mortality statistics, was an unreliable measure of avoidable deaths. The Francis report of February 2013 concluded that it would be unsafe to infer from these statistics that there was any particular number of avoidable or unnecessary deaths at the trust.As a result, the trust's chief executive, Martin Yeates, was suspended (with full pay), while its chairman, Toni Brisby, resigned. Both Prime Minister Gordon Brown and Health Secretary Alan Johnson apologised to those who suffered at the hospital. Also in response to the scandal, the mortality rates of all National Health Service hospitals have been made accessible on a website. It later emerged that a \"compromise agreement\" had been agreed with Martin Yeates whereby he left the NHS with a large sum of money. He did not give evidence at any of the enquiries, apparently because of health problems, but he was appointed to be Chief Executive of Impact Alcohol and Addiction Services in 2012.\n\nSome executives who had been responsible for the trust at the time received promotions within the health service and were loudly criticised. Cynthia Bower, who was from 2006 chief executive of NHS West Midlands, was recruited to run the Care Quality Commission quango. Sir David Nicholson was in charge of the regional health authority responsible for the hospital at the height of the failings between 2005 and 2006.\n\nOn 21 July 2009, the Secretary of State for Health, Andy Burnham, announced a further independent inquiry into care provided by Mid Staffordshire Foundation Trust. The generally critical inquiry report was published on 24 February 2010. The report made 18 local and national recommendations, including that the regulator, Monitor, de-authorise the Foundation Trust.\n\nCompensation payments averaging £11,000 were paid to some of the families involved.\n\nIn February 2010, Burnham agreed to a further independent inquiry of the commissioning, supervisory and regulatory bodies for Foundation Trusts.\n\nIn June 2010, the new government announced that a full public inquiry would be held. The inquiry began on 8 November 2010 chaired by Robert Francis QC, who had chaired the fourth inquiry which he had criticised for its narrow remit. The inquiry considered more than a million pages of previous evidence as well as hearing from witnesses. UK expert medical lawyers also offered their assistance to distraught and angry families who waited for proof that lessons had been learned. Many families of the victims felt that crucial questions have been left unanswered.\n\nThe final report was published on 6 February 2013, making 290 recommendations. Academics at the University of Oxford and King's College London have criticised its recommendations to legally enforce a new duty of openness, transparency and candour amongst NHS staff, arguing that increasing 'micro-regulation' may produce serious unintended consequences. The revelations of the neglect to patients at Stafford hospital were widely considered to be deeply shocking by all sections of the mainstream UK press; for example, patients were left in their own urine by nurses.\n\nThe Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), the UK’s regulator of nurses and midwives, has held hearings about nurses working in the trust following allegations that they were not fit to practise. Acting to protect the public, the NMC has struck off from their register and suspended 2 nurses as a result of these hearings.\n\nThis includes two nurses who falsified accident and emergency discharge times, two nurses involved in the death of a diabetic patient and a nurse who physically and verbally abused a dementia patient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23510063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23510063", "title": "Swedish Fortifications Agency", "text": "Swedish Fortifications Agency\n\nThe Swedish Fortifications Agency (SFA) (, abbreviated ) is a Swedish government agency under the Swedish Ministry of Finance (), tasked with managing government-owned defense-related buildings and land. The agency functions as the landlord for the Swedish Armed Forces (), managing various types of military installations. The SFA is one of the largest holders of real estate in Sweden.\n\nThe formation of the SFA in 1994 was part of the Swedish government effort to increase the cost-efficiency of government real estate usage through a system of internal rent, which was meant to emulate market-like conditions. The main purpose with the reform was to create economic incentives for the authorities in the public sector to economise on premises. In the defense sector, the real estate holdings were transferred from the Swedish Armed Forces — the user of the real estate — to the SFA; with the Swedish Armed Forces remaining in the estate as a tenant.\n\nCurrently, the SFA acts as landlord for several Swedish government agencies in the defense sector. The main tenant is the Swedish Armed Forces, which in 2007 was the source of over 90% of the SFA:s revenue.\n\nThe SFA does not receive an allowance from the government budget. Instead, it covers its expenses by charging rent for the real estate it leases. In 2008, the agency's revenue was 3.0 billion SEK, and its net income 67 million SEK. The rent is adjusted so that the net income — which goes into the state treasury — conforms to a predefined level of return on equity, as set by the Ministry of Finance. To finance investments, the SFA borrows money from the National Debt Office (), which acts as the internal bank of the government.\n\nThe SFA employed 689 people in 2008. The majority of the employees work on a local level in real estate units linked to garrisons, where employees work in areas such as project management, property development and maintenance services. At the regional and national level, employees work in real estate purchasing and sales, defense facility development, and various management functions. The SFA considers its core competencies to be security and protective technology. The agency has stated that it aims to increase the amount of outsourcing, and as an experiment in 2006, it outsourced the property maintenance of two garrisons.\n\nIn 2008, the book value of the government real estate stock managed by the SFA was 10.1 billion SEK, largely consisting of depots, garrisons, training facilities, offices, and proving grounds. In 2007, the total real estate stock included:\n\n"}
{"id": "28148197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28148197", "title": "Technology for peace", "text": "Technology for peace\n\nTechnology for Peace is a Cyprus-based peoples' initiative launched in 1995 to serve the needs of peace pioneers on the divided island.\n\nThe peace portal was born because it was deemed needed. What led to its birth was neither the availability of relevant technology nor the availability of funding, because both were not there. The ban of bi-communal meetings imposed by the Turkish Cypriot Authorities following the EU’s decision to postpone accession negotiations with Turkey (summit meeting in Luxembourg, December 1997) stopped face-to-face dialogues (during the time window 1994-1997) and threatened to nullify all peace building efforts on the island. The idea came out of several (# 9, 10 & 11) of the 15 peace promoting projects, which made it to the final Cyprus Peace Bazaar organized by the Cyprus Conflict Resolution Trainers Group in 1995.\n\nThe vision, which underpinned the project Technology For Peace (Tech4Peace) was to enhance in Cyprus\none of the most basic human rights, the right of communication, by applying modern technology in the service of peace with emphasis on the usage of Internet and Internet-based applications. A promising and creative way to enhance inter-communal communication where there exist substantial hindrances to direct contact between peoples is through the use of the Internet. Cyberspace and Internet provide an efficient, fast, tractable, confidential, organized, time and space independent means of communication. As individuals and organizations throughout the world continue to demonstrate, the Internet can overcome the challenge posed by physical separation, whether due to geographic, political or other reasons, by effectively moving discourse into \"cyberspace.\"\n\nThe Tech4Peace team organized a series of trainings in the usage of the net to communicate across the dividing line in the years 1996-1998. In 1998, with USAID funding given to Dr. Hrach Gregorian, cyber peace cafes on the northern and southern parts of Nicosia have been set up within CYBER KIDS centers, from where peace builders could communicate with their peers on the other side. Participants were also exposed to the ICONS project, developed at the University of Maryland, using simulations and scenario-driven exercises to advance their understanding of complex problems and strengthen their ability to make decisions, navigate crises, think strategically, and negotiate collaboratively. In the next years, the project team developed theory of how technology in general can serve bridge the divides, as well as how technology can support the ethical engagement of all stakeholders in a dialogue which concerns their own futures\n\nThe Tech4Peace project has been evaluated by Nathan Associates for the United States Agency for International Development as a project that has contributed towards Peace and Reconciliation in Cyprus. It was one of few projects, which received support multiple times and were funded by the UNOPS, United Nations funding scheme during the very first funding cycle.\n\nThe Tech4Peace project was founded as one of the selected Cyprus Peace Bazaar Projects in 1997. The members of the founding team were Yiannis Laouris, Harry Anastasiou, Dervis Besimler and Bekir Azgin. They were all members of the Cyprus Conflict Resolution Trainers Group.\n\nLaouris, Y. and Tziapouras, G. (2002). Technology used for peace in Cyprus. Peacebuilding 3(3), 4-8.\n\nLaouris, Y. (2004). Information technology in the service of peace building. The case of Cyprus. World Futures, 60, 67–79.\n\n"}
{"id": "51092396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51092396", "title": "Time is Money, Efficiency is Life", "text": "Time is Money, Efficiency is Life\n\n\"Time is Money, Efficiency is Life\" (Chinese:\"时间就是金钱，效率就是生命\") is a widespread slogan of China's economic reform. It was initially a quote from Yuan Geng made in 1981.\n"}
{"id": "13917072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13917072", "title": "Timeline of libertarian thinkers", "text": "Timeline of libertarian thinkers\n\nThis article is a list of major figures in the theory of libertarianism, a philosophy asserting that individuals have a right to be free. Originally coined by French anarchist Joseph Déjacque as an alternative to anarchism, in the 1950s American classical liberals decided to appropriate the term to for their philosophy which asserts that individuals have a right to acquire, keep, and exchange their holdings and that the primary purpose of government is to protect these rights. \n\n"}
{"id": "28348111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28348111", "title": "Tom Cotter (environmentalist)", "text": "Tom Cotter (environmentalist)\n\nTom Cotter (born 1972) is an American conservationist, entrepreneur, renewable energy advocate, and ordained evangelical minister living in Clovis, California.\n\nTom Cotter grew up in Napa Valley, California, United States. A significant influence was the Boy Scouts of America. In 1988, Cotter was awarded the title of Eagle Scout. \n\nIn 1997, he was ordained clergy at First Christian Church in Napa, California. He served as a pastor at Clovis Christian Church in Clovis, California from 1996 to 2006.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2015 he worked in sales leadership in the U.S. Photovoltaic Industry, starting at ReGrid Power, which was later acquired by Real Goods Solar. He also worked at Sunrun.\nFrom 2015 to 2017 he worked as Regional Sales Manager at Renew Financial for the California counties of Fresno, Madera, Tulare, and Kings.\n\nCotter has taught as adjunct professor of Theological Ethics and the Environment at Fresno Pacific University.\n\nCotter resides in Clovis, California with his wife, Christi Gaither, and their three children. The family has a solar power and solar thermal system on their home. Mr. Cotter drives a 100% electric Nissan Leaf. Mrs. Cotter drives an alternative fuel VW Jetta TDI. The Cotter family uses vermiposting to turn kitchen scraps, junk mail and paper packing materials into nutrient rich soil for their garden and yard.\n\nCotter is a part of the California Climate Ride, a 320-mile bicycle benefit ride for bicycle advocacy and renewable energy down the coast of California from Eureka, California to San Francisco, California.\n\nIn 2007, Cotter and Socient CEO, Victor Ramayrat, co-founded Green Fresno, a free online community and information portal (in 2012 it was relaunched as Green Central Valley).\n\nCotter is the organizer and curator of the annual Fresno Solar Tour part of the American Solar Energy Society's National Solar Tour.\n\nCotter is an Organizer of Fresno Earth Day, purposed to inspire and mobilize individuals and organizations to demonstrate their commitment to environmental protection and sustainability.\n\nCotter is founder and coordinator of Fresno Green Drinks, an informal monthly gathering of environmental field professionals, educators, public servants, activists, and people wanting to learn and inspire each other towards broader ecological stewardship in the Fresno metro area. As of May, 2012, Green Drinks was active in 642 cities worldwide.\n\nIn 2012, Cotter became a Climate Leader in the Climate Leadership Corps with the Climate Reality Project.\n\nCotter served as a Technical Advisory Committee Member for Energize Fresno in the Private Business, Development, and Finance Sector in 2017. \n\nCotter serves on the Board of Directors of the Solar Living Institute.\n\nCotter is the past President and Chairman of the Board of Directors at the International Green Industry Hall of Fame, which promotes ecological sustainability worldwide through recognizing individuals and organizations for outstanding achievement(s) in the Green Industry and provides an educational forum for the international public.\n\nCotter is a past Board of Director member at Restore Hetch Hetchy.\n\nCotter is a producer of the short documentary film, Forest Man. The film chronicles the story of Jadav Payeng, an Indian man who single-handedly planted nearly 1,400 acres of forest to save his island, Majuli, India. The film is directed by William D. McMaster of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The film was released in the summer, 2013.\n\nIn 2010, Cotter worked with California's No on Prop 23 Campaign. This proposition would have suspended AB 32, a law enacted in 2006 legally referred to as the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006. Prop 23 was defeated by California voters during the statewide election by a 23% margin.\n\nIn 2012, Cotter worked to get the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to expand net metering in California. \n\nIn 2012, Cotter worked towards the passing of Proposition 39 - California Clean Energy Jobs Act.\n"}
{"id": "47720959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47720959", "title": "United Party of Retirees and Pensioners", "text": "United Party of Retirees and Pensioners\n\nThe United Party of Retirees and Pensioners (, PURP) is a Portuguese political party focused on securing the rights of pensioners. It was founded by António Mateus Dias and Fernando Loureiro and registered by the Portuguese Constitutional Court on 13 July 2015. It contested the 2015 Portuguese legislative elections.\n\nThe party is generally anti-austerity and sees itself as a defender of the weak and vulnerable in Portuguese society, which also includes people in poor, neglected inland areas. They claim to be \"defending the values of human dignity, freedom, justice and solidarity\". Their main goal is to raise minimum pensions to the national minimum wage. Other goals are promoting transparency in the public sector, preventing corruption and cronyism, securing free health and education for ordinary people, non-discrimination on the grounds of age, race, religion and gender and separating political power from economic power.\n\nPURP has a Green agenda and wants to secure environmental protection and promote sustainable development, as a precautionary principle for future generations.\n\nIn foreign policy, the party defends that Portugal should advocate regulation of the economic and financial system at the global level as well as the abolition of tax havens and support the UN in obtaining these goals.\n"}
{"id": "9115534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9115534", "title": "Vice President of Abkhazia", "text": "Vice President of Abkhazia\n\nThe Vice President of the Abkhaz Republic, an partially recognized state, internationally regarded as a part of Georgia, is the first in the presidential line of succession, becoming the new President of Abkhazia upon the death, resignation, or removal of the President. Additionally, the Vice President would assume the presidency in case the President becomes incapable of carrying out the presidential duties.\n\nAccording to the article 54 of the , a citizen of Abkhazia, no younger than 35 years old and no older than 65 years old, who is in possession of suffrage, may be elected Vice President. The Vice President shall not be member of the Parliament, or hold any other offices in state or public bodies as well as in businesses.\n\nThe Vice President is elected simultaneously with the President. A candidate for Vice President is nominated by a candidate for President.\n\nThe Vice-President executes individual assignments on a commission of the President and acts for the President in his absence or in case when it is impossible for the President to attend to his duties.\n\nOn 25 December 2013, Mikhail Logua announced his resignation as Vice President for health reasons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31528183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31528183", "title": "Western Political Science Association", "text": "Western Political Science Association\n\nThe Western Political Science Association (WPSA) is a professional association of political science scholars and students in the United States that was founded in 1947.\nThe purpose of the WPSA is to promote the study and teaching of government and politics, to foster political research, and to facilitate a greater dialogue involving public affairs and policy making. The official region of the WPSA includes the western states of Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Utah, and Washington. In addition, it includes the Canadian provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, and Saskatchewan. However, one-third of the association’s members are from other states and nations.\n\nThe WPSA was founded in November, 1947, and held its first meeting at the University of Utah. At this time a constitution was adopted and officers were elected for the new organization. The first president of the association was G. Homer Durham (University of Utah). The WPSA was the second regional political science association formally recognized by the American Political Science Association. In 1995, the WPSA became incorporated in California as a nonprofit public benefit corporation. In 1998, the WPSA Executive Council appointed Elizabeth Moulds from California State University Sacramento to serve as the association's first Executive Director. Including her term as Executive Director, Moulds served as the chief administrative officer for the association for 25 years, before stepping down in 2009.\n\nThe WPSA Annual Meeting is a gathering of political scientists that rotates throughout the region. It occurs over a weekend in March or April each spring. Approximately 1,100 to 1,300 political scientists participate in this conference annually. The conference provides a forum for scholars to share research, discuss political science education, and network with other experts in their field.\n\nThe current offices of the association are:\n\nTo recognize excellence in the profession, the association offers annual awards that are presented at the regional conference:\n\nThe association publishes two academic journals.\n"}
{"id": "372695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372695", "title": "Worshipful Company of Cordwainers", "text": "Worshipful Company of Cordwainers\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Cordwainers is one of the Livery Companies of the City of London. Cordwainers were workers in fine leather; the Company gets its name from \"cordwain\" (cordovan), the white leather produced from goatskin in Cordova, Spain. All fine leather makers, including Girdlers and Glovers, were originally classified as cordwainers; however, the term eventually came to refer only to fine leather footwear, including boots.\n\nThe Cordwainers' Company, which received the right to regulate City trade in 1272 (the same year as the Curriers), obtained a Royal Charter of incorporation in 1439. The status of the Company as a trade association has lessened over the years; the Company is now, as are most other Livery Companies, a charitable body. Other leather-linked Livery Companies, which enjoy close relations with the Cordwainers include not only the Curriers, but the Leathersellers, Saddlers and Tallow Chandlers Companies too.\n\nThe Company ranks twenty-seventh in the order of precedence of Livery Companies and is the highest ranked one without its own Livery Hall. The Company's motto is \"Corio et Arte\", Latin for \"Leather and Art\".\n\nThe livery hall of the Cordwainers, Cordwainers' Hall, stood near St. Paul's Churchyard from 1316 until its destruction in the London blitz in 1941.\n\n"}
