{"id": "13906453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13906453", "title": "Abrahamic religions", "text": "Abrahamic religions\n\nThe Abrahamic religions, also referred to collectively as Abrahamism, are a group of Semitic-originated religious communities of faith that claim descent from the Judaism of the ancient Israelites and the worship of the God of Abraham. The Abrahamic religions are monotheistic religions: they worship only one god, the unique God. The term derives from patriarch Abraham, a major biblical figure from \"The Old Testament\", which is recognized by Christians, Muslims and others. \n\nAbrahamic religion spread globally through Christianity being adopted by the Roman Empire in the 4th century and Islam by the Islamic Empires from the 7th century. Today the Abrahamic religions are one of the major divisions in comparative religion (along with Indian, Iranian, and East Asian religions). The major Abrahamic religions in chronological order of founding are Judaism in the 7th century BCE, Christianity in the 1st century CE, and Islam in the 7th century CE.\n\nChristianity, Islam, and Judaism are the Abrahamic religions with the greatest numbers of adherents. Abrahamic religions with fewer adherents include the faiths descended from Yazdânism (the Yezidi, Yarsani faiths), Samaritanism, the Druze faith, Bábism, the Bahá'í Faith and Rastafari.\n\n, estimates classified 54% (3.6 billion people) of the world's population as adherents of an Abrahamic religion, about 32% as adherents of other religions, and 16% as adherents of no organized religion. Christianity claims 33% of the world's population, Islam has 21%, Judaism has 0.2% and the Bahá'í Faith represents around 0.1%.\n\nIt was suggested by Louis Massignon that the phrase \"Abrahamic religion\" means that all these religions come from one spiritual source. Paul the Apostle referred to Abraham as the \"father of us all\". There is a Quranic term, \"millat Ibrahim\", 'religion of Ibrahim', indicating that Islam sees itself as standing in a tradition of religious practice from Abraham. Jewish tradition claims that the Jews are descended from Abraham, and adherents of Judaism derive their spiritual identity from Abraham as the first of the three \"fathers\" or biblical Patriarchs: Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.\n\nAll the major Abrahamic religions claim a direct lineage to Abraham, although in Christianity this is understood in spiritual terms:\n\nAdam Dodds argues that the term \"Abrahamic faiths\", while helpful, can be considered misleading, as it conveys an unspecified historical and theological commonality that is problematic on closer examination. While there is commonality among the religions, in large measure their shared ancestry is peripheral to their respective foundational beliefs and thus conceals crucial differences. For example, the common Christian beliefs of Incarnation, Trinity and the resurrection of Jesus are not accepted by Judaism or Islam (see for example Islamic view of Jesus' death). There are key beliefs in both Islam and Judaism that are not shared by most of Christianity (such as strict monotheism and adherence to Divine Law), and key beliefs of Islam, Christianity, and the Bahá'í Faith not shared by Judaism (such as the prophetic and Messianic position of Jesus, respectively).\n\nThe appropriateness of grouping Judaism, Christianity, and Islam by the terms \"Abrahamic religions\" or \"Abrahamic traditions\" has been challenged.\n\nIn 2012, Alan L. Berger, Professor of Judaic Studies at Florida Atlantic University, in his Preface to \"Trialogue and Terror: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam after 9/11\" wrote that there are \"commonalities\", but \"there are essential differences between the Abrahamic traditions\" both \"historical and theological\". Although \"Judaism birthed both Christianity and Islam\", the \"three monotheistic faiths went their separate ways\". The three faiths \"understand the role of Abraham\" in \"differing ways\", and the relationships between Judaism and Christianity and between Judaism and Islam are \"uneven\". Also, the three traditions are \"demographically unbalanced and ideologically diverse\".\n\nAlso in 2012, Aaron W. Hughes published a book about the category Abrahamic religions as an example of \"abuses of history.\" He said that only recently the category \"Abrahamic religions\" has come into use and that it is a \"vague referent.\" It is \"largely a theological neologism\" and \"an artificial and imprecise\" term. Combining the Jewish, Christian, and Muslim religions into this one category might serve the purpose of encouraging \"interfaith trialogue\", but it is not true to the \"historical record\". Abrahamic religions is \"an ahistorical category\". There are \"certain family resemblances\" among these three religions, but the \"amorphous\" term Abrahamic religions prevents an understanding of the \"complex nature\" of the interactions among them. Furthermore, the three religions do not share the same story of Abraham. For these and other reasons, Hughes argued that the term should not be used, at least in academic circles.\n\nOne of Judaism's primary texts is the Tanakh, an account of the Israelites' relationship with God from their earliest history until the building of the Second Temple (c. 535 BCE). Abraham is hailed as the first Hebrew and the father of the Jewish people. One of his great-grandsons was Judah, from whom the religion ultimately gets its name. The Israelites were initially a number of tribes who lived in the Kingdom of Israel and Kingdom of Judah.\n\nAfter being conquered and exiled, some members of the Kingdom of Judah eventually returned to Israel. They later formed an independent state under the Hasmonean dynasty in the 2nd and 1st centuries BCE, before becoming a client kingdom of the Roman Empire, which also conquered the state and dispersed its inhabitants. From the 2nd to the 6th centuries Jews wrote the Talmud, a lengthy work of legal rulings and Biblical exegesis which, along with the Tanakh, is a key text of Judaism.\n\nChristianity began in the 1st century as a sect within Judaism initially led by Jesus. His followers viewed him as the Messiah, as in the Confession of Peter; after his crucifixion and death they came to view him as God incarnate, who was resurrected and will return at the end of time to judge the living and the dead and create an eternal Kingdom of God. Within a few decades the new movement split from Judaism.\n\nAfter several periods of alternating persecution and relative peace \"vis a vis\" the Roman authorities under different administrations, Christianity became the state church of the Roman Empire in 380, but has been split into various churches from its beginning. An attempt was made by the Byzantine Empire to unify Christendom, but this formally failed with the East–West Schism of 1054. In the 16th century, the birth and growth of Protestantism further split Christianity into many denominations.\n\nIslam is based on the teachings of the Quran. Although it considers Muhammad to be the Seal of the prophets, Islam teaches that every prophet preached Islam, providing a historical back-story for the religion by independently recognizing Jewish and Christian prophets, and adding others. The teachings of Quran are presented as the direct revelation and words of Allah. Islam (meaning \"submission\", in the sense of submission to God) is universal (membership is open to anyone); like Judaism, it has a strictly unitary conception of God, called \"tawhid\", or \"strict\" or \"simple\" monotheism.\n\nHistorically, the Abrahamic religions have been considered to be Judaism, Christianity and Islam. Some of this is due to the age and larger size of these three. The other, similar religions were seen as either too new to judge as being truly in the same class, or too small to be of significance to the category.\n\nHowever, some of the restriction of Abrahamic to these three is due only to tradition in historical classification. Therefore, restricting the category to these three religions has come under criticism. The religions listed below here claim Abrahamic classification, either by the religions themselves, or by scholars who study them.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith, which dates only to the late 19th century, has sometimes been listed as Abrahamic by scholarly sources in various fields.\n\nThough smaller and younger than the well-known Abrahamic religions, the Bahá'í Faith is significant because of its activities, distribution and numbers. The religion is almost entirely contained in a single, organized community with international, national, regional, and local administration, without sects or subdivisions, and is recognized as the second-most geographically widespread religion after Christianity. The Association of Religion Data Archives estimated some 7.3 million Bahá'ís in 2005 and the only religion to consistently surpass population growth in each major region of the planet over the last century, often growing at twice the rate of the population.\n\nBahá'u'lláh (1817–1892), the founder, affirms the highest religious station for Abraham and generally for prophets mentioned among the other Abrahamic religions, and has claimed a lineage of descent from Abraham through Keturah and Sarah. Additionally Bahá'u'lláh actually did lose a son, Mírzá Mihdí. Bahá'u'lláh, then in prison, eulogized his son and connected the subsequent easing of restrictions to his son's dying prayer and compared it to the intended sacrifice of Abraham's son.\n\nThe religion also shares many of the same commonalities of Judaism, Christianity and Islam. The religion emphasizes monotheism and believes in one eternal transcendent God, the station of the founders of the major religions as Manifestations of God come with revelation as a series of interventions by God in human history that has been progressive, and each preparing the way for the next. There is no definitive list of Manifestations of God, but Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá referred to several personages as Manifestations; they include individuals generally not recognized by other Abrahamic religions—Krishna, Zoroaster, and Buddha—and general statements go further to other cultures.\n\nBábism (, \"Babiyye\"), also known as the Bayání Faith (Arabic: , \"Bayání\"), is an Abrahamic monotheistic religion which professes that there is one incorporeal, unknown, and incomprehensible God who manifests his will in an unending series of theophanies, called Manifestations of God (Arabic: ). It is an extremely small religion, with no more than a few thousand adherents according to current estimates, most of which are concentrated in Iran. It was founded by ‘Ali Muhammad Shirazi who first assumed the title of Báb ( \"Gate\") from which the religion gets its name, out of the belief that he was the gate to the Twelfth Imam. However throughout his ministry his titles and claims underwent much evolution as the Báb progressively outlined his teachings.\n\nFounded in 1844, Bábism flourished in Persia until 1852, then lingered on in exile in the Ottoman Empire, especially Cyprus, as well as underground. An anomaly amongst Islamic messianic movements, the Bábí movement signaled a break with Islam, beginning a new religious system with its own unique laws, teachings, and practices. While Bábism was violently opposed by both clerical and government establishments, it led to the founding of the Bahá'í Faith, whose followers consider the religion founded by the Báb as a predecessor to their own.\n\nSamaritanism is based on some of the same books used as the basis of Judaism but differs from the latter. Samaritan religious works include the Samaritan version of the Torah, the Memar Markah, the Samaritan liturgy, and Samaritan law codes and biblical commentaries. Many claim the Samaritans appear to have a text of the Torah as old as the Masoretic Text; scholars have various theories concerning the actual relationships between these three texts.\n\nYazdânism, or the Cult of Angels, is a proposed pre-Islamic, native religion of the Kurds. The term was introduced by Kurdish scholar Mehrdad Izady to represent what he considers the \"original\" religion of the Kurds as the primary inhabitants of the Zagros Mountains, until their increasing Islamization in the course of the 10th century.\n\nAccording to Izady, Yazdânism is now continued in the denominations of Yazidism, Yarsanism, and Alevism. The three traditions subsumed under the term Yazdânism are primarily practiced in relatively isolated communities, from Khurasan to Anatolia and parts of western Iran.\n\nThe concept of Yazdânism has found a wide perception both within and beyond Kurdish nationalist discourses, but has been disputed by other recognized scholars of Iranian religions. Well established, however, are the \"striking\" and \"unmistakable\" similarities between the Yazidis and the Yaresan or \"Ahl-e Haqq\", some of which can be traced back to elements of an ancient faith that was probably dominant among Western Iranians and likened to practices of pre-Zoroastrian Mithraic religion. Mehrdad Izady defines the Yazdanism as an ancient Hurrian religion and states that Mitannis could have introduced some of the Vedic tradition that appears to be manifest in Yazdanism.\n\nShabakism is the name given to the beliefs and practices of the Shabak people of Kurdistan region and around Mosul in Iraq. A majority of Shabaks regard themselves as Shia, and a minority identify as Sunnis. Despite this, their actual faith and rituals differ from Islam, and have characteristics that make them distinct from neighboring Muslim populations. These include features from Christianity including confession, and the consumption of alcohol, and the fact that Shabaks often go on pilgrimage to Yazidi shrines. Nevertheless, the Shabak people also go on pilgrimages to Shia holy cities such as Najaf and Karbala, and follow many Shiite teachings.\n\nThe organization of Shabakism appears to be much like that of a Sufi order: adult laymen (Murids) are bound to spiritual guides (pîrs or Murshids) who are knowledgeable in matters of religious doctrine and ritual. There are several ranks of such pîrs; at the top stands the Baba, or supreme head of the order. Theoretically individuals can choose their own pîr, but in practice the pir families often become associated with lay families over several generations.\n\nShabakism combines elements of Sufism with the uniquely Shabak interpretation of \"divine reality.\" According to Shabaks, this divine reality supersedes the literal, or Shar'ia, interpretation of the Quran. Shabaks comprehend divine reality through the mediation of the \"Pir\" or spiritual guide, who also performs Shabak rituals. The structure of these mediatory relationships closely resembles that of the Yarsan.\n\nThe primary Shabak religious text is the Buyruk or \"Kitab al-Managib\" (Book of Exemplary Acts) and is written in Turkoman. Shabaks also consider the poetry of Ismail I to be revealed by God, and they recite Ismail's poetry during religious meetings.\n\nMandaeism or Mandaeanism ( \"\") is a gnostic religion with a strongly dualistic worldview. Its adherents, the Mandaeans, revere Adam, Abel, Seth, Enos, Noah, Shem, Aram, and especially John the Baptist. Abraham, however, is considered a false prophet in Mandeanism.\n\nThe Druze faith is a monotheistic and Abrahamic religion based on the teachings of high Islamic figures like Hamza ibn-'Ali ibn-Ahmad and Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah, and Greek philosophers such as Plato and Aristotle. The Epistles of Wisdom is the foundational text of the Druze faith. The Druze faith incorporates elements of Islam's Ismailism, Gnosticism, Neoplatonism, Pythagoreanism, Hinduism (according to some), and other philosophies and beliefs, creating a distinct and secretive theology known to interpret esoterically religious scriptures, and to highlight the role of the mind and truthfulness. The Druze follow theophany, and believe in reincarnation or the transmigration of the soul. At the end of the cycle of rebirth, which is achieved through successive reincarnations, the soul is united with the Cosmic Mind (\"Al Aaqal Al Kulli\").\n\nThe Druze Faith is often classified as a branch of Isma'ili Shia Islam.\n\nRastafari, sometimes termed Rastafarianism, is an Abrahamic religion. Classified as both a new religious movement and social movement, it developed in Jamaica during the 1930s. It lacks any centralised authority and there is much heterogeneity among practitioners, who are known as Rastafari, Rastafarians, or Rastas.\n\nRastafari refer to their beliefs, which are based on a specific interpretation of the Bible, as \"Rastalogy\". Central is a monotheistic belief in a single God—referred to as Jah—who partially resides within each individual. The former emperor of Ethiopia, Haile Selassie, is given central importance. Many Rastas regard him as an incarnation of Jah on Earth and as the Second Coming of Christ. Others regard him as a human prophet who fully recognised the inner divinity within every individual. Rastafari is Afrocentric and focuses its attention on the African diaspora, which it believes is oppressed within Western society, or \"Babylon\". Many Rastas call for the resettlement of the African diaspora in either Ethiopia or Africa more widely, referring to this continent as the Promised Land of \"Zion\". Other interpretations shift focus on to the adoption of an Afrocentric attitude while living outside of Africa. Rastas refer to their practices as \"livity\". Communal meetings are known as \"groundations\", and are typified by music, chanting, discussions, and the smoking of cannabis, the latter being regarded as a sacrament with beneficial properties. Rastas place emphasis on what they regard as living 'naturally', adhering to ital dietary requirements, allowing their hair to form into dreadlocks, and following patriarchal gender roles.\n\nRastafari originated among impoverished and socially disenfranchised Afro-Jamaican communities in 1930s Jamaica. Its Afrocentric ideology was largely a reaction against Jamaica's then-dominant British colonial culture. It was influenced by both Ethiopianism and the Back-to-Africa movement promoted by black nationalist figures like Marcus Garvey. The movement developed after several Christian clergymen, most notably Leonard Howell, proclaimed that the crowning of Haile Selassie as Emperor of Ethiopia in 1930 fulfilled a Biblical prophecy. By the 1950s, Rastafari's counter-cultural stance had brought the movement into conflict with wider Jamaican society, including violent clashes with law enforcement. In the 1960s and 1970s it gained increased respectability within Jamaica and greater visibility abroad through the popularity of Rasta-inspired reggae musicians like Bob Marley. Enthusiasm for Rastafari declined in the 1980s, following the deaths of Haile Selassie and Marley.\n\nThe Rasta movement is organised on a largely cellular basis. There are several denominations, or \"Mansions of Rastafari\", the most prominent of which are the Nyahbinghi, Bobo Ashanti, Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church, and the Twelve Tribes of Israel, each of which offers different interpretations of Rasta belief. There are an estimated 700,000 to 1 million Rastas across the world; the largest population is in Jamaica although communities can be found in most of the world's major population centres.\n\nSome small religions, such as Samaritanism, Druze, Rastafari movement, and the Bábí Faith, are Abrahamic. These religions are regional, with Samaritans largely in Israel and the West Bank, Druze largely in Syria, Lebanon, Israel, and Jordan, and Rastafari largely in Jamaica.\n\nThe civilizations that developed in Mesopotamia influenced some religious texts, particularly the Hebrew Bible and the Book of Genesis in particular; Abraham is said to have originated in Mesopotamia.\n\nJudaism regards itself as the religion of the descendants of Jacob, a grandson of Abraham. It has a strictly unitary view of God, and the central holy book for almost all branches is the Masoretic Text as elucidated in the Oral Torah. In the 19th century and 20th centuries Judaism developed a small number of branches, of which the most significant are Orthodox, Conservative, and Reform.\n\nChristianity began as a sect of Judaism in the Mediterranean Basin of the first century CE and evolved into a separate religion—Christianity—with distinctive beliefs and practices. Jesus is the central figure of Christianity, considered by almost all denominations to be God the Son, one person of the Trinity. See God in Christianity. The Christian biblical canons are usually held to be the ultimate authority, alongside sacred tradition in some denominations (such as the Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church). Over many centuries, Christianity divided into three main branches (Orthodox, Catholic, and Protestant), dozens of significant denominations, and hundreds of smaller ones.\n\nIslam arose in the Arabian Peninsula in the 7th century CE with a strictly unitary view of God. Muslims hold the Quran to be the ultimate authority, as revealed and elucidated through the teachings and practices of a central, but not divine prophet, Muhammad. The Islamic faith considers all prophets and messengers from Adam through the final messenger (Muhammad) to carry the same Islamic monotheistic principles. Soon after its founding, Islam split into two main branches (Sunni and Shia Islam), each of which now has a number of denominations.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith began within the context of Shia Islam in 19th-century Persia, after a merchant named Siyyid `Alí Muḥammad Shírází claimed divine revelation and took on the title of the Báb, or \"the Gate\". The Bab's ministry proclaimed the imminent advent of \"He whom God shall make manifest\", who Bahá'í's accept as Bahá'u'lláh. Bahá'í's revere the Torah, Gospels and the Quran, and the writings of the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh, and `Abdu’l-Bahá' are considered the central texts of the faith. A vast majority of adherents are unified under a single denomination.\n\nLesser-known Abrahamic religions, originally offshoots of Shia Islam, include Bábism and the Druze faith.\n\nThe unifying characteristic of Abrahamic religions is that all accept the tradition that God revealed himself to the patriarch Abraham. All are monotheistic, and conceive God to be a transcendent creator and the source of moral law. Their religious texts feature many of the same figures, histories, and places, although they often present them with different roles, perspectives, and meanings. Believers who agree on these similarities and the common Abrahamic origin tend to also be more positive towards other Abrahamic groups.\n\nIn these four Abrahamic religions the individual, God, and the universe are highly separate from each other. The Abrahamic religions believe in a judging, paternal, fully external god to which the individual and nature are subordinate. One seeks salvation or transcendence not by contemplating the natural world or via philosophical speculation, but by seeking to please God (such as obedience with God's wishes or his law) and see divine revelation as outside of self, nature, and custom.\n\nAll Abrahamic religions claim to be monotheistic, worshiping an exclusive God, although one known by different names. Each of these religions preaches that God creates, is one, rules, reveals, loves, judges, punishes, and forgives. However, although Christianity does not profess to believe in three gods—but rather in three persons, or hypostases, united in one essence—the Trinitarian doctrine, a fundamental of faith for the vast majority of Christian denominations, conflicts with Jewish, Muslim, and Bahá'í concepts of monotheism. Since the conception of a divine Trinity is not amenable to \"tawhid\", the Islamic doctrine of monotheism, Islam regards Christianity as variously polytheistic .\n\nChristianity, Islam, and the Bahá'í Faith each revere Jesus (Arabic: \"Isa\" or \"Yasu\" among Muslims and Arab Christians respectively) but with vastly differing conceptions:\n\nHowever, the worship of Jesus, or the ascribing of partners to God (known as \"shirk\" in Islam and as \"shituf\" in Judaism), is typically viewed as the heresy of idolatry by Islam and Judaism and as misguided by the Bahá'ís. Judaism, Islam, and the Bahá'í Faith also see the incarnation of God into human form as a heresy.\n\nAll the Abrahamic religions affirm one eternal God who created the universe, who rules history, who sends prophetic and angelic messengers and who reveals the divine will through inspired revelation. They also affirm that obedience to this creator deity is to be lived out historically and that one day God will unilaterally intervene in human history at the Last Judgment.\n\nAll Abrahamic religions believe that God guides humanity through revelation to prophets, and each religion recognizes that God revealed teachings up to and including those in their own scripture.\n\nAn ethical orientation: all these religions speak of a choice between good and evil, which is associated with obedience or disobedience to a single God and to Divine Law.\n\nAn eschatological world view of history and destiny, beginning with the creation of the world and the concept that God works through history, and ending with a resurrection of the dead and final judgment and world to come.\n\nJerusalem is considered Judaism's holiest city. Its origins can be dated to 1004 BCE when according to Biblical tradition David established it as the capital of the United Kingdom of Israel, and his son Solomon built the First Temple on Mount Moriah. Since the Hebrew Bible relates that Isaac's sacrifice took place there, Mount Moriah's importance for Jews predates even these prominent events. Jews thrice daily pray in its direction, including in their prayers pleas for the restoration and the rebuilding of the Holy Temple (the Third Temple) on mount Moriah, close the Passover service with the wistful statement \"Next year in built Jerusalem,\" and recall the city in the blessing at the end of each meal. Jerusalem has served as the only capital for the five Jewish states that have existed in Israel since 1400 BCE (the United Kingdom of Israel, the Kingdom of Judah, Yehud Medinata, the Hasmonean Kingdom, and modern Israel). It has been majority Jewish since about 1852 and continues through today.\n\nJerusalem was an early center of Christianity. There has been a continuous Christian presence there since. William R. Kenan, Jr., professor of the history of Christianity at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, writes that from the middle of the 4th century to the Islamic conquest in the middle of the 7th century, the Roman province of Palestine was a Christian nation with Jerusalem its principal city. According to the New Testament, Jerusalem was the city Jesus was brought to as a child to be presented at the temple and for the feast of the Passover. He preached and healed in Jerusalem, unceremoniously drove the money changers in disarray from the temple there, held the Last Supper in an \"upper room\" (traditionally the Cenacle) there the night before he is said to have died on the cross, was arrested in Gethsemane. The six parts to Jesus' trial—three stages in a religious court and three stages before a Roman court—were all held in Jerusalem. His crucifixion at Golgotha, his burial nearby (traditionally the Church of the Holy Sepulchre), and his resurrection and ascension and prophecy to return all are said to have occurred or will occur there.\n\nJerusalem became holy to Muslims, third after Mecca and Medina. The Al-Aqsa Mosque, which translates to \"farthest mosque\" in sura Al-Isra in the Quran and its surroundings are addressed in the Quran as \"the holy land\". Muslim tradition as recorded in the ahadith identifies al-Aqsa with a mosque in Jerusalem. The first Muslims did not pray toward Kaaba, but toward Jerusalem (this was the \"qibla\" for 13 years): the qibla was switched to Kaaba later on to fulfill the order of Allah of praying in the direction of Kaaba (Quran, Al-Baqarah 2:144–150). Another reason for its significance is its connection with the Miʿrāj, where, according to traditional Muslim, Muhammad ascended through the Seven heavens on a winged mule named Buraq, guided by the Archangel Gabriel, beginning from the Foundation Stone on the Temple Mount, in modern times under the Dome of the Rock.\n\nEven though members of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam do not all claim Abraham as an ancestor, some members of these religions have tried to claim him as exclusively theirs.\n\nFor Jews, Abraham is the founding patriarch of the children of Israel. God promised Abraham: \"I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you.\" With Abraham, God entered into \"an everlasting covenant throughout the ages to be God to you and to your offspring to come\". It is this covenant that makes Abraham and his descendants children of the covenant. Similarly, converts, who join the covenant, are all identified as sons and daughters of Abraham.\n\nAbraham is primarily a revered ancestor or patriarch (referred to as \"Avraham Avinu\" (אברהם אבינו in Hebrew) \"Abraham our father\") to whom God made several promises: chiefly, that he would have numberless descendants, who would receive the land of Canaan (the \"Promised Land\"). According to Jewish tradition, Abraham was the first post-Flood prophet to reject idolatry through rational analysis, although Shem and Eber carried on the tradition from Noah.\n\nChristians view Abraham as an important exemplar of faith, and a spiritual, as well as physical, ancestor of Jesus. For Christians, Abraham is a spiritual forebear as well as/rather than a direct ancestor depending on the individual's interpretation of Paul the Apostle, with the Abrahamic covenant \"reinterpreted so as to be defined by faith in Christ rather than biological descent\" or both by faith as well as a direct ancestor; in any case, the emphasis is placed on faith being the only requirement for the Abrahamic Covenant to apply (see also New Covenant and supersessionism). In Christian belief, Abraham is a role model of faith, and his obedience to God by offering Isaac is seen as a foreshadowing of God's offering of his son Jesus.\n\nChristian commentators have a tendency to interpret God's promises to Abraham as applying to Christianity subsequent to, and sometimes rather than (as in supersessionism), being applied to Judaism, whose adherents rejected Jesus. They argue this on the basis that just as Abraham as a Gentile (before he was circumcised) \"believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness\" (cf. Rom. 4:3, James 2:23), \"those who have faith are children of Abraham\" (see also John 8:39). This is most fully developed in Paul's theology where all who believe in God are spiritual descendants of Abraham. However, with regards to and , in both cases he refers to these spiritual descendants as the \"sons of God\" rather than \"children of Abraham\".\n\nFor Muslims, Abraham is a prophet, the \"messenger of God\" who stands in the line from Adam to Muhammad, to whom God gave revelations, who \"raised the foundations of the House\" (i.e., the Kaaba) with his first son, Isma'il, a symbol of which is every mosque. Ibrahim (Abraham) is the first in a genealogy for Muhammad. Islam considers Abraham to be \"one of the first Muslims\" (Surah 3)—the first monotheist in a world where monotheism was lost, and the community of those faithful to God, thus being referred to as ابونا ابراهيم or \"Our Father Abraham\", as well as \"Ibrahim al-Hanif\" or \"Abraham the Monotheist\". Also, the same as Judaism, Islam believes that Abraham rejected idolatry through logical reasoning. Abraham is also recalled in certain details of the annual Hajj pilgrimage.\n\nThe Abrahamic God is conceived of as eternal, omnipotent, omniscient and as the creator of the universe. God is further held to have the properties of holiness, justice, omnibenevolence and omnipresence. Proponents of Abrahamic faiths believe that God is also transcendent, but at the same time personal and involved, listening to prayer and reacting to the actions of his creatures.\nIn Jewish theology, God is strictly monotheistic. God is an absolute one, indivisible and incomparable being who is the ultimate cause of all existence. Jewish tradition teaches that the true aspect of God is incomprehensible and unknowable and that it is only God's revealed aspect that brought the universe into existence, and interacts with mankind and the world. In Judaism, the one God of Israel is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who is the guide of the world, delivered Israel from slavery in Egypt, and gave them the 613 Mitzvot at Mount Sinai as described in the Torah.\n\nThe national god of the Israelites has a proper name, written YHWH () in the Hebrew Bible. The name YHWH is a combination of the future, present, and past tense of the verb \"howa\" () meaning \"to be\" and translated literally means \"The self-existent One\". A further explanation of the name was given to Moses when YHWH stated \"Eheye Asher Eheye\" () \"I will be that I will be\", the name relates to God as God truly is, God's revealed essence, which transcends the universe. It also represents God's compassion towards the world. In Jewish tradition another name of God is Elohim, relating to the interaction between God and the universe, God as manifest in the physical world, it designates the justice of God, and means \"the One who is the totality of powers, forces and causes in the universe\".\nIn Christian theology, God is the eternal being who created and preserves the world. Christians believe God to be both transcendent and immanent (involved in the world). Early Christian views of God were expressed in the Pauline Epistles and the early creeds, which proclaimed one God and the divinity of Jesus.\n\nAround the year 200, Tertullian formulated a version of the doctrine of the Trinity which clearly affirmed the divinity of Jesus and came close to the later definitive form produced by the Ecumenical Council of 381. Trinitarians, who form the large majority of Christians, hold it as a core tenet of their faith. Nontrinitarian denominations define the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit in a number of different ways.\n\nThe theology of the attributes and nature of God has been discussed since the earliest days of Christianity, with Irenaeus writing in the 2nd century: \"His greatness lacks nothing, but contains all things\". In the 8th century, John of Damascus listed eighteen attributes which remain widely accepted. As time passed, theologians developed systematic lists of these attributes, some based on statements in the Bible (e.g., the Lord's Prayer, stating that the Father is in Heaven), others based on theological reasoning.\nIn Islamic theology, God ( \"\") is the all-powerful and all-knowing creator, sustainer, ordainer and judge of everything in existence. Islam emphasizes that God is strictly singular (\"\") unique (') and inherently One ('), all-merciful and omnipotent. According to Islamic teachings, God exists without place and according to the Quran, \"No vision can grasp him, but His grasp is over all vision: He is above all comprehension, yet is acquainted with all things.\" God, as referenced in the Quran, is the only God. Islamic tradition also describes the 99 names of God. These 99 names describe attributes of God, including Most Merciful, The Just, The Peace and Blessing, and the Guardian.\n\nIslamic belief in God is distinct from Christianity in that God has no progeny. This belief is summed up in chapter 112 of the Quran titled Al-Ikhlas, which states \"Say, he is Allah (who is) one, Allah is the Eternal, the Absolute. He does not beget nor was he begotten. Nor is there to Him any equivalent\".\n\nAll these religions rely on a body of scriptures, some of which are considered to be the word of God—hence sacred and unquestionable—and some the work of religious men, revered mainly by tradition and to the extent that they are considered to have been divinely inspired, if not dictated, by the divine being.\n\nThe sacred scriptures of Judaism are the Tanakh, a Hebrew acronym standing for \"Torah\" (Law or Teachings), \"Nevi'im\" (Prophets) and \"Ketuvim\" (Writings). These are complemented by and supplemented with various (originally oral) traditions: \"Midrash\", the \"Mishnah\", the \"Talmud\" and collected rabbinical writings. The Tanakh (or Hebrew Bible) was composed between 1,400 BCE, and 400 BCE by Jewish , kings, and priests.\n\nThe Hebrew text of the Tanakh, and the Torah in particular is considered holy, down to the last letter: transcribing is done with painstaking care. An error in a single letter, ornamentation or symbol of the 300,000+ stylized letters that make up the Hebrew Torah text renders a Torah scroll unfit for use; hence the skills of a Torah scribe are specialist skills, and a scroll takes considerable time to write and check.\nThe sacred scriptures of most Christian groups are the Old Testament and the New Testament. Latin Bibles originally contained 73 books; however, 7 books, collectively called the Apocrypha or Deuterocanon depending on one's opinion of them, were removed by Martin Luther due to a lack of original Hebrew sources, and now vary on their inclusion between denominations. Greek Bibles contain additional materials.\n\nThe New Testament comprises four accounts of the life and teachings of Jesus (the Four Gospels), as well as several other writings (the epistles) and the Book of Revelation. They are usually considered to be divinely inspired, and together comprise the Christian Bible.\n\nThe vast majority of Christian faiths (including Catholicism, Orthodox Christianity, and most forms of Protestantism) recognize that the Gospels were passed on by oral tradition, and were not set to paper until decades after the resurrection of Jesus and that the extant versions are copies of those originals. The version of the Bible considered to be most valid (in the sense of best conveying the true meaning of the word of God) has varied considerably: the Greek Septuagint, the Syriac Peshitta, the Latin Vulgate, the English King James Version and the Russian Synodal Bible have been authoritative to different communities at different times.\n\nThe sacred scriptures of the Christian Bible are complemented by a large body of writings by individual Christians and councils of Christian leaders (see canon law). Some Christian churches and denominations consider certain additional writings to be binding; other Christian groups consider only the Bible to be binding (sola scriptura).\nIslam's holiest book is the Quran, comprising 114 Suras (\"chapters of the Qur'an\"). However, Muslims also believe in the religious texts of Judaism and Christianity in their original forms, albeit not the current versions. According to the Quran (and mainstream Muslim belief), the verses of the Quran were revealed by God through the Archangel Jibrail to Muhammad on separate occasions. These revelations were written down and also memorized by hundreds of companions of Muhammad. These multiple sources were collected into one official copy. After the death of Mohammed, Quran was copied on several copies and Caliph Uthman provided these copies to different cities of Islamic Empire.\n\nThe Quran mentions and reveres several of the Israelite prophets, including Moses and Jesus, among others (see also: Prophets of Islam). The stories of these prophets are very similar to those in the Bible. However, the detailed precepts of the Tanakh and the New Testament are not adopted outright; they are replaced by the new commandments accepted as revealed directly by God (through Gabriel) to Muhammad and codified in the Quran.\n\nLike the Jews with the Torah, Muslims consider the original Arabic text of the Quran as uncorrupted and holy to the last letter, and any translations are considered to be interpretations of the meaning of the Quran, as only the original Arabic text is considered to be the divine scripture.\n\nLike the Rabbinic Oral Law to the Hebrew Bible, the Quran is complemented by the \"Hadith\", a set of books by later authors recording the sayings of the prophet Muhammad. The Hadith interpret and elaborate Qur'anic precepts. Islamic scholars have categorized each Hadith at one of the following levels of authenticity or isnad: genuine (\"sahih\"), fair (\"hasan\") or weak (\"da'if\").\n\nBy the 9th century, six major Hadith collections were accepted as reliable to Sunni Muslims.\n\nShia Muslims, however, refer to other authenticated hadiths instead. They are known collectively as The Four Books.\n\nThe Hadith and the life story of Muhammad (sira) form the Sunnah, an authoritative supplement to the Quran. The legal opinions of Islamic jurists (Faqīh) provide another source for the daily practice and interpretation of Islamic tradition (see Fiqh.)\n\nThe Quran contains repeated references to the \"religion of Abraham\" (see Suras 2:130,135; 3:95; 6:123,161; 12:38; 16:123; 22:78). In the Quran, this expression refers specifically to Islam; sometimes in contrast to Christianity and Judaism, as in Sura 2:135, for example: 'They say: \"Become Jews or Christians if ye would be guided (to salvation).\" Say thou (O Muslims): \"Nay! (I would rather) the Religion of Abraham the True, and he joined not gods with God.\" ' In the Quran, Abraham is declared to have been a Muslim (a \"hanif\", more accurately a \"primordial monotheist\"), not a Jew nor a Christian (Sura 3:67).\n\nIn the major Abrahamic religions, there exists the expectation of an individual who will herald the time of the end or bring about the Kingdom of God on Earth; in other words, the Messianic prophecy. Judaism awaits the coming of the Jewish Messiah; the Jewish concept of Messiah differs from the Christian concept in several significant ways, despite the same term being applied to both. The Jewish Messiah is not seen as a \"god\", but as a mortal man who by his holiness is worthy of that description. His appearance is not the end of history, rather it signals the coming of the world to come.\n\nChristianity awaits the Second Coming of Christ, though Full Preterists believe this has already happened. Islam awaits both the second coming of Jesus (to complete his life and die) and the coming of Mahdi (Sunnis in his first incarnation, Shia as the return of Muhammad al-Mahdi).\n\nMost Abrahamic religions agree that a human being comprises the body, which dies, and the soul, which is capable of remaining alive beyond human death and carries the person's essence, and that God will judge each person's life accordingly after death. The importance of this and the focus on it, as well as the precise criteria and end result, differ between religions.\n\nJudaism's views on the afterlife (\"the Next World\") are quite diverse. This can be attributed to the fact that although there clearly are traditions in the Hebrew Bible of an afterlife (see Naboth and the Witch of Endor), Judaism focuses on this life and how to lead a holy life to please God, rather than future reward.\n\nChristians have more diverse and definite teachings on the end times and what constitutes afterlife. Most Christian approaches either include different abodes for the dead (Heaven, Hell, Limbo, Purgatory) or universal reconciliation because all souls are made in the image of God. A small minority teach annihilationism, the doctrine that those persons who are not reconciled to God simply cease to exist.\n\nIn Islam, God is said to be \"Most Compassionate and Most Merciful\" (Quran 1:2, as well as the start of all suras but one). However, God is also \"Most Just\"; Islam prescribes a literal Hell for those who disobey God and commit gross sin. Those who obey God and submit to God will be rewarded with their own place in Paradise. While sinners are punished with fire, there are also many other forms of punishment described, depending on the sin committed; Hell is divided into numerous levels.\n\nThose who worship and remember God are promised eternal abode in a physical and spiritual Paradise. Heaven is divided into eight levels, with the highest level of Paradise being the reward of those who have been most virtuous, the prophets, and those killed while fighting for Allah (martyrs).\n\nUpon repentance to God, many sins can be forgiven, on the condition they are not repeated, as God is supremely merciful. Additionally, those who believe in God, but have led sinful lives, may be punished for a time, and then eventually released into Paradise. If anyone dies in a state of Shirk (i.e. associating God in any way, such as claiming that He is equal with anything or denying Him), this is not pardonable—he or she will stay forever in Hell.\n\nOnce a person is admitted to Paradise, this person will abide there for eternity.\n\nWorship, ceremonies and religion-related customs differ substantially among the Abrahamic religions. Among the few similarities are a seven-day cycle in which one day is nominally reserved for worship, prayer or other religious activities—\"Shabbat\", Sabbath, or \"jumu'ah\"; this custom is related to the biblical story of Genesis, where God created the universe in six days and rested in the seventh.\n\nOrthodox Judaism practice is guided by the interpretation of the Torah and the Talmud. Before the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem, Jewish priests offered sacrifices there two times daily; since then, the practice has been replaced, until the Temple is rebuilt, by Jewish men being required to pray three times daily, including the chanting of the Torah, and facing in the direction of Jerusalem's Temple Mount. Other practices include circumcision, dietary laws, Shabbat, Passover, Torah study, Tefillin, purity and others. Conservative Judaism, Reform Judaism and the Reconstructionist movement all move away, in different degrees, from the strict tradition of the law.\n\nJewish women's prayer obligations vary by denomination; in contemporary Orthodox practice, women do not read from the Torah and are only required to say certain parts of these daily services.\n\nAll versions of Judaism share a common, specialized calendar, containing many festivals. The calendar is lunisolar, with lunar months and a solar year (an extra month is added every second or third year to allow the shorter lunar year to \"catch up\" to the solar year). All streams observe the same festivals, but some emphasize them differently. As is usual with its extensive law system, the Orthodox have the most complex manner of observing the festivals, while the Reform pay more attention to the simple symbolism of each one.\n\nChristian worship varies from denomination to denomination. Individual prayer is usually not ritualised, while group prayer may be ritual or non-ritual according to the occasion. During church services, some form of liturgy is frequently followed. Rituals are performed during sacraments, which also vary from denomination to denomination and usually include Baptism and Communion, and may also include Confirmation, Confession, Last Rites and Holy Orders.\n\nCatholic worship practice is governed by the Roman Missal and other documents. Individuals, churches and denominations place different emphasis on ritual—some denominations consider most ritual activity optional, see Adiaphora, particularly since the Protestant Reformation.\n\nThe followers of Islam (Muslims) are to observe the Five Pillars of Islam. The first pillar is the belief in the oneness of Allah, and in Muhammad as his final and most perfect prophet. The second is to pray five times daily (salat) towards the direction (qibla) of the Kaaba in Mecca. The third pillar is almsgiving (Zakah), a portion of one's wealth given to the poor or to other specified causes, which means the giving of a specific share of one's wealth and savings to persons or causes, as is commanded in the Quran and elucidated as to specific percentages for different kinds of income and wealth in the hadith. The normal share to be paid is two and a half percent of one's earnings: this increases if labour was not required, and increases further if only capital or possessions alone were required (i.e. proceeds from renting space), and increases to 50% on \"unearned wealth\" such as treasure-finding, and to 100% on wealth that is considered haram, as part of attempting to make atonement for the sin, such as that gained through financial interest (riba).\n\nFasting (sawm) during the ninth month of the Muslim lunar calendar, Ramadan, is the fourth pillar of Islam, to which all Muslims after the age of puberty in good health (as judged by a Muslim doctor to be able fast without incurring grave danger to health: even in seemingly obvious situations, a \"competent and upright Muslim physician\" is required to agree), that are not menstruating are bound to observe—missed days of the fast for any reason must be made up, unless there be a permanent illness, such as diabetes, that prevents a person from ever fasting. In such a case, restitution must be made by feeding one poor person for each day missed.\n\nFinally, Muslims are also required, if physically able, to undertake a pilgrimage to Mecca at least once in one's life: it is strongly recommended to do it as often as possible, preferably once a year. Only individuals whose financial position and health are severely insufficient are exempt from making Hajj (e.g. if making Hajj would put stress on one's financial situation, but would not end up in homelessness or starvation, it is still required). During this pilgrimage, the Muslims spend three to seven days in worship, performing several strictly defined rituals, most notably circumambulating the Kaaba among millions of other Muslims and the \"stoning of the devil\" at Mina.\n\nAt the end of the Hajj, the heads of men are shaved, sheep and other halal animals, notably camels, are slaughtered as a ritual sacrifice by bleeding out at the neck according to a strictly prescribed ritual slaughter method similar to the Jewish kashrut, to commemorate the moment when, according to Islamic tradition, Allah replaced Abraham's son Ishmael (contrasted with the Judaeo-Christian tradition that Isaac was the intended sacrifice) with a sheep, thereby preventing human sacrifice. The meat from these animals is then distributed locally to needy Muslims, neighbours and relatives. Finally, the hajji puts off \"ihram\" and the hajj is complete.\n\nJudaism practices circumcision for males as a matter of religious obligation at the age of 8 days old, as does Islam as part of Sunnah.\n\nWestern Christianity replaced that custom with a baptism ceremony varying according to the denomination, but generally including immersion, aspersion, or anointment with water. The Early Church (Acts 15, the Council of Jerusalem) decided that circumcision is not required for Gentile Christians. The Council of Florence in the 15th century prohibited it. Paragraph #2297 of the Catholic Catechism calls non-medical amputation or mutilation immoral. By the 21st century, the Catholic Church had adopted a neutral position on the practice, as long as it is not practised as an initiation ritual. Catholic scholars make various arguments in support of the idea that this policy is not in contradiction with the previous edicts. The New Testament chapter Acts 15 records that Christianity did not require circumcision. The Catholic Church currently maintains a neutral position on the practice of non-religious circumcision, and in 1442 it banned the practice of religious circumcision in the 11th Council of Florence. Coptic Christians practice circumcision as a rite of passage. The Eritrean Orthodox Church and the Ethiopian Orthodox Church calls for circumcision, with near-universal prevalence among Orthodox men in Ethiopia. \n\nMany countries with majorities of Christian adherents have low circumcision rates, while both religious and non-religious circumcision is common in many predominantly Christian countries such as the United States, and the Philippines, Australia, and Canada, Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Equatorial Guinea, Ghana, Nigeria, and Kenya, and many other African Christian countries, Circumcision is near universal in the Christian countries of Oceania. Coptic Christianity and Ethiopian Orthodoxy and Eritrean Orthodoxy still observe male circumcision and practice circumcision as a rite of passage. Male circumcision is also widely practiced among Christians from South Korea, Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Palestine, Israel, and North Africa. (See also aposthia.)\n\nMale circumcision is among the rites of Islam and is part of the \"fitrah\", or the innate disposition and natural character and instinct of the human creation.\n\nJudaism and Islam have strict dietary laws, with permitted food known as kosher in Judaism, and halal in Islam. These two religions prohibit the consumption of pork; Islam prohibits the consumption of alcoholic beverages of any kind. Halal restrictions can be seen as a modification of the kashrut dietary laws, so many kosher foods are considered halal; especially in the case of meat, which Islam prescribes must be slaughtered in the name of God. Hence, in many places, Muslims used to consume kosher food. However, some foods not considered kosher are considered halal in Islam.\n\nWith rare exceptions, Christians do not consider the Old Testament's strict food laws as relevant for today's church; see also Biblical law in Christianity. Most Protestants have no set food laws, but there are minority exceptions.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church believes in observing abstinence and penance. For example, all Fridays through the year and the time of Lent are penitential days. The law of abstinence requires a Catholic from 14 years of age until death to abstain from eating meat on Fridays in honor of the Passion of Jesus on Good Friday. The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops obtained the permission of the Holy See for Catholics in the U.S. to substitute a penitential, or even a charitable, practice of their own choosing. Eastern Rite Catholics have their own penitential practices as specified by the Code of Canons for the Eastern Churches.\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church (SDA) embraces numerous Old Testament rules and regulations such as tithing, Sabbath observance, and Jewish food laws. Therefore, they do not eat pork, shellfish, or other foods considered unclean under the Old Covenant. The \"Fundamental Beliefs\" of the SDA state that their members \"are to adopt the most healthful diet possible and abstain from the unclean foods identified in the Scriptures\". \n\nIn the Christian Bible, the consumption of strangled animals and of blood was forbidden by Apostolic Decree and are still forbidden in the Greek Orthodox Church, according to German theologian Karl Josef von Hefele, who, in his Commentary on Canon II of the Second Ecumenical Council held in the 4th century at Gangra, notes: \"We further see that, at the time of the Synod of Gangra, the rule of the Apostolic Synod [the Council of Jerusalem of Acts 15] with regard to blood and things strangled was still in force. With the Greeks, indeed, it continued always in force as their Euchologies still show.\" He also writes that \"as late as the eighth century, Pope Gregory the Third, in 731, forbade the eating of blood or things strangled under threat of a penance of forty days.\"\n\nJehovah's Witnesses abstain from eating blood and from blood transfusions based on .\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints prohibits the consumption of alcohol, coffee, and non-herbal tea. While there is not a set of prohibited food, the church encourages members to refrain from eating excessive amounts of red meat.\n\nSabbath in the Bible is a weekly day of rest and time of worship. It is observed differently in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam and informs a similar occasion in several other Abrahamic faiths. Though many viewpoints and definitions have arisen over the millennia, most originate in the same textual tradition.\n\nJudaism accepts converts, but has had no explicit missionaries since the end of the Second Temple era. Judaism states that non-Jews can achieve righteousness by following Noahide Laws, a set of moral imperatives that, according to the Talmud, were given by God as a binding set of laws for the \"children of Noah\"—that is, all of humanity. It is believed that as much as ten percent of the Roman Empire followed the Judaism either as fully ritually obligated Jews or the simpler rituals required of non-Jewish members of that faith.\n\nMoses Maimonides, one of the major Jewish teachers, commented: \"Quoting from our sages, the righteous people from other nations have a place in the world to come if they have acquired what they should learn about the Creator\". Because the commandments applicable to the Jews are much more detailed and onerous than Noahide laws, Jewish scholars have traditionally maintained that it is better to be a good non-Jew than a bad Jew, thus discouraging conversion. In the U.S., as of 2003 28% of married Jews were married to non-Jews. \"See also Conversion to Judaism.\"\nChristianity encourages evangelism. Many Christian organizations, especially Protestant churches, send missionaries to non-Christian communities throughout the world. \"See also Great Commission\". Forced conversions to Catholicism have been alleged at various points throughout history. The most prominently cited allegations are the conversions of the pagans after Constantine; of Muslims, Jews and Eastern Orthodox during the Crusades; of Jews and Muslims during the time of the Spanish Inquisition, where they were offered the choice of exile, conversion or death; and of the Aztecs by Hernán Cortés. Forced conversions to Protestantism may have occurred as well, notably during the Reformation, especially in England and Ireland (see recusancy and Popish plot).\n\nForced conversions are condemned as sinful by major denominations such as the Roman Catholic Church, which officially states that forced conversions pollute the Christian religion and offend human dignity, so that past or present offences are regarded as a scandal (a cause of unbelief). According to Pope Paul VI, \"It is one of the major tenets of Catholic doctrine that man's response to God in faith must be free: no one, therefore, is to be forced to embrace the Christian faith against his own will.\" The Roman Catholic Church has declared that Catholics should fight anti-Semitism.\n\nDawah is an important Islamic concept which denotes the preaching of Islam. Da‘wah literally means \"issuing a summons\" or \"making an invitation\". A Muslim who practices da‘wah, either as a religious worker or in a volunteer community effort, is called a dā‘ī, plural du‘āt. A dā‘ī is thus a person who invites people to understand Islam through a dialogical process and may be categorized in some cases as the Islamic equivalent of a missionary, as one who invites people to the faith, to the prayer, or to Islamic life.\n\nDa'wah activities can take many forms. Some pursue Islamic studies specifically to perform Da'wah. Mosques and other Islamic centers sometimes spread Da'wah actively, similar to evangelical churches. Others consider being open to the public and answering questions to be Da'wah. Recalling Muslims to the faith and expanding their knowledge can also be considered Da'wah.\n\nIn Islamic theology, the purpose of Da‘wah is to invite people, both Muslims and non-Muslims, to understand the commandments of God as expressed in the Quran and the Sunnah of the Prophet, as well as to inform them about Muhammad. Da‘wah produces converts to Islam, which in turn grows the size of the Muslim Ummah, or community of Muslims.\n\nThis section reports on writings and talks which describe or advocate dialogue between the Abrahamic religions.\n\nRiaz Ahmed Gohar Shahi\n\nIn 1997, Riaz Ahmed Gohar Shahi claims to have met Jesus in New Mexico. Since then he has exalted God's love above all religious differences. He describes the situation in this way: \"A Muslim says, 'I am superior to all.' A Jew declares, 'I am even better than the Muslim.' And a Christian says, 'I am greater than both the Muslim and the Jew, and the rest of the religions, because I am the nation of God's Son.'\" However, Gohar Shahi himself \"declares that superior and best of all is the one who possesses God's love in his heart, in spite of his indifference to any religion\".\n\nAmir Hussain\nIn 2003, a book called \"Progressive Muslims: On Justice, Gender, and Pluralism\" contains a chapter by Amir Hussain on \"Muslims, Pluralism, and Interfaith Dialogue\" which he shows how interfaith dialogue has been an integral part of Islam from its beginning. From his \"first revelation\" for the rest of his life, Muhammad was \"engaged in interfaith dialogue.\" Islam would not have spread without \"interfaith dialogue.\"\n\nHussain gives an early example of \"the importance of pluralism and interfaith dialogue\" to Islam. When some of Muhammad’s followers suffered \"physical persecution\" in Mecca, he sent them to Abyssinia, a Christian nation, where they were \"welcomed and accepted\" by the Christian king. Another example is Córdoba, Andalusia in Muslim Spain, in the ninth and tenth centuries. Córdoba was \"one of the most important cities in the history of the world\". In \"Christians and Jews were involved in the Royal Court and the intellectual life of the city.\" Thus, there is \"a history of Muslims, Jews, Christians, and other religious traditions living together in a pluralistic society.\"\n\nTurning to the present, Hussain says that one of the challenges faced by Muslims now is the conflicting passages in the Qur̀an some of which support interfaith \"bridge-building,\" but others can be used \"justify mutual exclusion.\" \nTrialogue\nThe 2007 book \"Trialogue: Jews, Christians, and Muslims in Dialogue\" puts the importance of interfaith dialogue starkly: \"We human beings today face a stark choice: dialogue or death!\"\nThe \"Trialogue\" book gives four reasons why the three Abrahamic religions should engage in dialogue:\n\nPope Benedict XVI\nIn 2010, Pope Benedict XVI spoke about \"Interreligious dialogue.\" He said that \"the Church's universal nature and vocation require that she engage in dialogue with the members of other religions.\" For the Abrahamic religions, this \"dialogue is based on the spiritual and historical bonds uniting Christians to Jews and Muslims.\" It is dialogue \"grounded in the sacred Scriptures\" and \"defined in the Dogmatic Constitution on the Church \"Lumen Gentium\" and in the Declaration on the Church's Relation to Non-Christian Religions \"Nostra Aetate\". The Pope concluded with a prayer: \"May Jews, Christians and Muslims . . . give the beautiful witness of serenity and concord between the children of Abraham.\"\n\nLearned Ignorance\nIn the 2011 book \"Learned Ignorance: Intellectual Humility Among Jews, Christians and Muslims\", the three editors address the question of \"why engage in interreligious dialogue; its purpose?\":\n\nThe Interfaith Amigos\nIn 2011, TED broadcast a 10-minute program about \"Breaking the Taboos of Interfaith Dialogue\" with Rabbi Ted Falcon (Jewish), Pastor Don Mackenzie (Christian), and Imam Jamal Rahman (Muslim) collectively known as The Interfaith Amigos See their TED program by clicking here.\n\nDivisive matters should be addressed\nIn 2012, a PhD thesis \"Dialogue Between Christians, Jews and Muslims\" argues that \"the paramount need is for barriers against non-defensive dialogue conversations between Christians, Jews, and Muslims to be dismantled to facilitate the development of common understandings on matters that are deeply divisive.\" As of 2012, the thesis says that this has not been done.\n\nCardinal Koch\nIn 2015, Cardinal Kurt Koch, the President of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity and who is \"responsible for the Church's dialogue with the Jewish people,\" was interviewed in 2015. He noted that the Church is already engaged in \"bilateral talks with Jewish and Muslim religious leaders.\" However, he said that it is too early for \"trialogue\" talks among the three Abrahamic religions. Yet, Koch added, \"we hope that we can go in this [direction] in future.\"\n\nOmid Safi\nIn 2016, a 26-minute interview with Professor Omid Safi, a Muslim and Director of the Duke Islamic Studies Center, was posted on YouTube.com. In it, Safi said that his life had been trying to combine \"love and tenderness\" which are the \"essence of being human\" with \"social justice.\"\n\nIn most of their common history, the three Abrahamic religions have been \"ignorant about each other, or worse, especially in the case of Christians and Muslims, attacked each other.\" In the La Convivencia (The Coexistence) in the 14th and 15th centuries, Muslims, Christians and Jews co-existed in relative peace, but, otherwise, there has been \"very little genuine dialogue\" between believers in these Abrahamic religions. They have \"kept their distance from one another, or were in conflict. . . there has been very little genuine dialogue.\" An aspect La Convivencia is shown in a six-minute video Cities of Light that documents collaboration between Spanish Jewish, Muslim and Christian scientists in 12th century Spain. It features the works of Maimonides (Jewish philosopher) and Averroes (Muslim philosopher).\n\nExamples of violent conflict follow:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "353862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353862", "title": "Alan Lloyd Hodgkin", "text": "Alan Lloyd Hodgkin\n\nSir Alan Lloyd Hodgkin (5 February 1914 – 20 December 1998) was an English physiologist and biophysicist, who shared the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Andrew Huxley and John Eccles.\n\nHodgkin was born in Banbury, Oxfordshire, to George Hodgkin and Mary Wilson Hodgkin. His father died of dysentery in Baghdad in 1918. His mother was remarried to Lionel Smith, with whom they lived. He was educated at The Downs School near Malvern, Gresham's School, and Trinity College, Cambridge. In 1930, he was the winner of a bronze medal in the Public Schools Essay Competition organised by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.\n\nDuring the Second World War, he volunteered on Aviation Medicine at Farnborough and was subsequently transferred to the Telecommunications Research Establishment (TRE) where he worked on the development of centimetric radar, including the design of the Village Inn AGLT airborne gun-laying system. Earlier, in March 1941, Hodgkin had flown on the test flight of a Bristol Blenheim fitted with the first airborne centimetric radar system. As the war ended in 1945, he joined the faculty of physiology department in Cambridge University. He was the Foulerton Professor of the Royal Society between 1951 and 1969. He served on the Royal Society Council from 1958 to 1960 and on the Medical Research Council from 1959 to 1963. He was foreign secretary of the Physiological Society from 1961 to 1967. He was appointed the John Humphrey Plummer Professor of Biophysics at Cambridge University in 1970. He also held additional administrative posts such as Chancellor, University of Leicester, from 1971 to 1984, and Master, Trinity College, Cambridge, from 1978 to 1985.\n\nWith Andrew Fielding Huxley, Hodgkin worked on experimental measurements and developed an action potential theory representing one of the earliest applications of a technique of electrophysiology, known as the \"voltage clamp\". The second critical element of their research was the use of the giant axon of the veined squid (\"Loligo forbesii\"), which enabled them to record ionic currents as they would not have been able to do in almost any other neuron, such cells being too small to study using the techniques of the time. The experiments started at the University of Cambridge, beginning in 1935 with frog sciatic nerve, and soon after they continued their work using squid giant axons at the Marine Biological Association Laboratory in Plymouth. In 1939, reporting work done in Plymouth, Alan Hodgkin and Andrew Huxley published a short paper in the journal \"Nature\" announcing their achievement of recording action potentials from inside a nerve fibre. Research was interrupted by World War II but after resuming their experimental work in Plymouth, the pair published their theory in 1952 in a series of publications.\n\nWith Huxley, he established the propagation mechanism of nerve impulse called \"action potentials\", the electrical impulses which enable the activity of an organism to be coordinated by a central nervous system. In addition Hodgkin and Huxley's findings led them to hypothesize the existence of ion channels on cell membranes, which were confirmed only decades later. Confirmation of ion channels came with the development of the patch clamp leading to a Nobel prize in 1991 for Erwin Neher and Bert Sakmann, and in 2003 for Roderick MacKinnon.\n\nHodgkin was also the discoverer of cell membrane depolarisation sequence now known as the Hodgkin cycle.\n\n\nAlan Lloyd Hodgkin, Andrew Fielding Huxley, and John Carew Eccles (for his research on synapses) were jointly awarded the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine \"for their discoveries concerning the ionic mechanisms involved in excitation and inhibition in the peripheral and central portions of the nerve cell membrane\". Hodgkin was knighted (KCB) in 1972 and appointed to the Order of Merit in 1973. He was elected President of the Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom in 1966. From 1970 to 1975 he was President of the Royal Society. The Royal Society awarded him its Royal Medal in 1958 and Copley Medal in 1965. He was also elected to the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Philosophical Society, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters, Deutsche Akademie, and Indian National Science Academy. A portrait of Hodgkin by Michael Noakes hangs in Trinity College's collection.\n\nAlan Hodgkin married Marion Rous in 1944, whom he met while at Rockefeller Institute in 1938. She was the daughter of an American pathologist, Francis Peyton Rous, who won the 1966 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. She became Children's Book Editor at Macmillan Publishing Company and a successful writer of children's literature, including \"Young Winter's Tales\" and \"Dead Indeed\". They had three daughters, Sarah, Deborah, and Rachel, and a son Jonathan. Jonathan Hodgkin became a molecular biologist at Cambridge University. Deborah Hodgkin is also a successful psychologist.\n\nThomas Hodgkin (1798-1866), who first described Hodgkin's lymphoma, was Alan Hodgkin's ancestor.\n\nAlan Hodgkin died in 1998 at Cambridge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3152932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3152932", "title": "Alf Ross", "text": "Alf Ross\n\nAlf Niels Christian Ross (10 June 1899 – 17 August 1979) was a Danish legal and moral philosopher and scholar of international law. He is best known as one of the leading exponents of Scandinavian legal realism. He is known for Ross' paradox.\n\nBorn in Copenhagen, Alf Ross graduated from high school in 1917. He studied law, graduating in 1922. He consequently worked in a barrister’s office. In 1923, he commenced a study tour, which would last for two and a half years, visiting France, England and Austria. He spent 1928–1929 in Uppsala, receiving a degree in philosophy in 1929 from the university. In 1935, he was appointed to teach at the University of Copenhagen in Constitutional Law. In 1953, Ross published \"Om Ret og Retfærdighed\" (which he would later publish in English, under the title \"On Law and Justice\").\n\nIn this book, he states that there is no a priori validity to give the law some special position. Experience serves as a guideline. This means, for example, that the famous dictum ‘suum cuique tribuere’, ‘to give to everyone his own’, has no meaning until it has been determined what actually belongs to someone, which means that this is a matter of begging the question (\"On Law and Justice\", § 64 (p. 276)). His determination not to rely on anything but the facts leads to statements as the following: “The legal rule is neither true nor false; it is a directive.” (\"On Law and Justice\", § 2 (p. 2)). Furthermore, the norm is directed at judges rather than citizens (\"On Law and Justice\", § 7 (p. 33)).\n\nIn this line of thought, he opposes natural law-approaches: “Like a harlot, natural law is at the disposal of everyone. The ideology does not exist that cannot be defended by an appeal to the law of nature. And, indeed, how can it be otherwise, since the ultimate basis for every natural right lies in a private direct insight, an evident contemplation, an intuition. Cannot my intuition be just as good as yours? Evidence as a criterion of truth explains the utterly arbitrary character of the metaphysical assertions. It raises them up above any force of inter-subjective control and opens the door wide to unrestricted invention and dogmatics.” (\"On Law and Justice\", § 58 (p. 261).)\n\n"}
{"id": "24291368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24291368", "title": "Aloysius Martinich", "text": "Aloysius Martinich\n\nAloysius Patrick Martinich (born June 28, 1946) is an American analytic philosopher. He is the Roy Allison Vaughan Centennial Professor of Philosophy and Professor of History at University of Texas at Austin. His area of interest is the nature and practice of interpretation; history of modern philosophy; the philosophy of language and religion; the history of political thinking and Thomas Hobbes.\n\nAloysius P. Martinich was born June 28, 1946 in Euclid General Hospital, Euclid, Ohio. He attended Catholic schools in the Cleveland area and graduated from St. Joseph High School in 1964. He graduated from the University of Windsor, Ontario in 1969 with a B.A. (First Honours), with a major in Honours Philosophy. He received his Ph.D. in December, 1972, with a dissertation, Reference and the Axiom of Existence, under the direction of Avrum Stroll. Later, he and Stroll co-authored the major article, “Epistemology,” in the Encyclopædia Britannica and the book, Much Ado about Non-Existence.\n\nHe became assistant professor of philosophy at the University of Texas at Austin in 1973, and eventually became Roy Allison Vaughan Centennial Professor in Philosophy. He is also professor of History and Professor of Government, through courtesy appointments. He has lectured at many universities in the United States, Europe, and China.\n\nHe has specialized in the philosophy of language and the philosophy of Thomas Hobbes. His book, The Two Gods of Leviathan (1992), argued for two main theses: that Hobbes was trying to reconcile traditional Christian doctrine with the new science of Copernicus and Galileo and that properly understood Christianity is not politically destabilizing. His biography \"Hobbes\", which won the Robert W. Hamilton Book Award in 2000 is currently the standard one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52473038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52473038", "title": "Anatoly Rykov", "text": "Anatoly Rykov\n\nAnatoly Rykov is a Russian art and political theorist, art historian, and professor at the Saint Petersburg State University. In his numerous writings Professor Rykov argues that leftist projects in art and culture often employ repressive and totalitarian concepts and metaphors. He introduced the notion of “radical conservatism” in order to explain this phenomenon in the theoretical matrix of the avant-garde and its postmodern interpretation. An expert on both Russian and Western art history and theory, he has written on a range of subjects in the Renaissance, 18th, 19th and 20th Century art. In his award-winning book, Postmodernism as radical conservatism (2007), he analyses the connotations of right-wing politics and philosophy in the work of eminent representatives of American art theory. His other publications include Marxism and Loneliness (On the “Political Unconscious” of the Contemporary Humanities in the West, Foundations of Art Theory (2007), Origins of the avant-garde (2016), and Formalism: Sociology of art (2016). His current research project Russian Art Theory: between Fascism and Shamanism concerns the issues of convergence between different political and sacral discourses in Russian twentieth-century theories of art.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26552534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26552534", "title": "António de Vasconcelos Nogueira", "text": "António de Vasconcelos Nogueira\n\nAntónio Fernando de Vasconcelos Nogueira (born 26 September 1961) is a Portuguese philosopher, Social Science researcher, author, dramatist, and freelance journalist.\n\nAntónio de Vasconcelos Nogueira was born in Águeda, Portugal. He spent his childhood and part of his adolescence in Luanda, Angola, a former Portuguese colony in Africa, where he attended Catholic primary schools. Back in mainland Portugal, he continued his secondary education at Escola Secundária Marques de Castilho (founded 1927) in Águeda and at Liceu Homem Cristo (founded 1860) in Aveiro.\n\nAntónio de Vasconcelos graduated in Philosophy from Saint Petersburg University (founded 1724). As a second year undergraduate he was admitted as a reader to the prestigious Library of the Russian Academy of Sciences (founded 1747). Subsequently, he gained a degree and master's from the University of Lisbon (founded 1290-1308; 1911) and later a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Aveiro, where he undertook post doctoral research in economic history.\n\nEarly in his career he started teaching. From 1991 to 1993 António de Vasconcelos taught philosophy and psychology at public high schools such as Escola C+S José Falcão de Miranda do Corvo (founded 1972), Coimbra, Liceu Homem Cristo (founded 1860) and Escola Secundária Dr. Mário Sacramento (founded 1893), all in Aveiro.\n\nHis academic career has been, since the middle 1990s, at different private institutes and public colleges, lecturing in Social Science disciplines. From 1993 to 1996 António de Vasconcelos was Visiting Professor of Anthropology and Ethics at Instituto Piaget, Vila Nova de Gaia. From 1996 to 1998, of Sociology at Instituto Português de Administração de Marketing; and again from 2001 to 2002, of Culture; II Semester 2002 of Economic History at University of Aveiro; and I Semester 2005 of Interfaith Dialogue at Instituto Superior de Ciências Religiosas de Aveiro. From 2002 to 2004 he had tutorial groups at Centro Integrado de Formação de Professores, University of Aveiro.\n\nSpecialized research work followed these fields. From 1999 to 2001 António de Vasconcelos focused on Jewish Studies and Portuguese diaspora; from 2003 to 2005, he concentrated on Portuguese emigration from Madeira to the British West Indies, British Guyana, Hawaii, the Midwest in the US, and Brazil, during the second half of 19th century. Since 2006 he has been doing research on Portuguese immigration to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.\n\nAs a freelance journalist, since 2007 he has worked for Contacto, a Portuguese weekly newspaper (founded 1970) published in Luxembourg. From 1996 to 1997 he worked for Diário de Aveiro (founded 1985), a regional daily newspaper, and in 1988 for O Diário (1976–1990), published in Lisbon.\n\nOther interests include Travelling, History of Art, Drawing and Painting, Creative Writing, Shiatsu as a therapy and Christian Meditation.\n\nAntónio de Vasconcelos’ views on Philosophy and Social Science deal with Ethics, History of Philosophy, Economic History, Portuguese Studies and Jewish Studies. Main sources, subjects and influences, stem from Ancient Philosophical writings and authors such as Plato, Seneca and Augustine of Hippo; from Modern Philosophy – René Descartes, Brother Lawrence, Blaise Pascal and Immanuel Kant; and from Contemporary Philosophy and Social Science – Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo, Nicolau Berdiaev, Albert Schweitzer, António Sérgio, Wladyslaw Tatarkiewicz, Joaquim de Carvalho, Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, María Zambrano, Hannah Arendt, Emmanuel Lévinas, Simone de Beauvoir, Soeur Emmanuelle, António José Saraiva, Joel Serrão, Primo Levi, Eduardo Lourenço and José Gil.\n\nWriting\n\nIn 2007 he was awarded The Portuguese National Prize for Theatre ‘Bernardo Santareno’ for The Lamentations of Glückel of Hameln, published in 2008. This drama deals with the vulnerability of human beings, questioning the meaning of life and death, according to one’s faith, beliefs and attitudes. It was inspired by Glückel of Hameln’s Memoirs (1689–1699; 1715–1719), and in certain books of the Bible such as Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, Wisdom, Sirach and Lamentations. Other sources are: (1) the dramatic works of Gil Vicente, considered the main reference for Portuguese and Spanish drama; Luis Vaz de Camoens’ lyrical poetry in Portuguese and Spanish; Joseph de la Vega; William Shakespeare; Samuel Beckett and Bernardo Santareno. (2) the poetry of Rainer Maria von Rilke and Marina Tsvetaeva; (3) the autobiographical works of Frank McCourt .\n\nIn 2001 António de Vasconcelos was awarded The Portuguese Literary Prize ‘José Régio’ for the drama The Master of Königsberg. This first drama was published in 2004, on the occasion of the bi-centennial of Immanuel Kant’s death and it portrays aspects of his life, thoughts and sayings, questioning morals and stereotyping. It is based on: (1) Kant’s correspondence and biographies written by G.B. Jäsche, L. E. Borowski, R. B. Jachmann and A. Ch. Wasianski; (2) and influenced by the dramatic works of Bertolt Brecht and Samuel Beckett.\n\n(2011) Os Portugueses no Luxemburgo. Contribuição para a história das migrações. Lisboa: Sítio do Livro.\n\n(2004) Capitalismo e Judaísmo. Contribuição dos Judeus portugueses para a ética capitalista. Lisboa: Fund. Calouste Gulbenkian.\n\n(2004) Das Filosofias ao filosofar. Exercício propedêutico e práticas didácticas. Aveiro: Fund. Jacinto de Magalhães.\n\n(1997) De Re Kantiana. Aveiro: Minerva Central.\n\n(1995) Portugal e o Báltico. Aveiro: Gráfica Aveirense.\n\n(2004) «O brasileiro de torna-viagem e o Protestantismo português: influências socio-económicas e imagem” in The Power and Persistence of Stereotyping. Anthony David Barker (ed.), Aveiro: Universidade de Aveiro: 81-94.\n\n(2007) “Isaac de Pinto (1717-1787) and the Jewish Problems: Apologetic Letters to Voltaire and Diderot” in History of European Ideas, Elsevier Inc., Ma., 33, Winter: 476-487, with José Luís Cardoso, ISEG-Technical University of Lisbon, Portugal\n\n(2005) “Isaac de Pinto (1717-1787): An Enlightened Economist and Financier” in History of Political Economic, Journal of the Duke University, North Carolina, 37 (2), Winter: 263-292, with José Luís Cardoso, ISEG-Technical University of Lisbon, Portugal\n\n(2004) “Werner Sombart (1863-1941): apontamento biobibliográfico” in Análise Social, vol. xxxviii (169): 1125-1151.\n\n(1999) “Memória da diáspora hispano-portuguesa em Amsterdão: elementos de bibliografia”, in Revista da Universidade de Aveiro, Letras, nº 16: 173-209.\n\n(1997) “Do capitalismo à ética dos negócios” in Sociologia, Problemas e Práticas, nº 24, Jun.: 141-164.\n\n(1997) «Na senda das Invasões Napoleónicas», in Diário Regional de Aveiro, dias 22 e 24 de Abril.\n\n(1996) «Evocação da diáspora sefardita», in Boletim Municipal de Aveiro, Ano XIV, n.º28, Dez.: 73-82.\n\n(1993) «Camões e as Letras russas», in Estudos Aveirenses, Revista do ISCIA, n.º1: 19-22.\n\n(1988) «A “Inês de Castro” de Briullov», in Suplemento Cultural do Diário, Lisboa, 07 de Maio.\n\n(2009) “The Portuguese Nation: Essays on Atlantic and Jewish Studies” concerning Richard L. Kagan and Philip D. Morgan, Atlantic Diasporas. Jews, Conversos, and Crypto-Jews in the Age of Mercantilism, 1500–1800, Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, in e-JPH, vol. 7, number I, Summer Brown University, RI, Providence\n\n(2005) Ferreira Fernandes, Madeirenses Errantes, Lisboa: Oficina do Livro, 2004, in Análise Social, vol. xl (175): 406-409.\n\n\nMeditação Cristã http://www.wccm.org ; http://www.meditacaocrista.com\n"}
{"id": "52147032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52147032", "title": "Black Art (poem)", "text": "Black Art (poem)\n\nBlack Art is a poem written by African-American poet and writer Amiri Baraka. It was written in 1965 after the assassination of Malcolm X, soon after the poet (formerly LeRoi Jones) had taken on a new name.The poem issued a clarion call for art by and for Black people:\n\n<poem>We want a black poem. And a \nBlack World.\nLet the world be a Black Poem\nAnd Let All Black People Speak This Poem\nSilently\nor LOUD</poem>\n\nThe poem sparked the beginning of the Black Arts Movement in poetry. \"Black Art\" was published in \"The Liberator\" in January 1966, and subsequently re-published in numerous anthologies.\n\nThe poem is described as one of Baraka’s most expressive political poems, as it uses sharp language, onomatopoeia and violence to call out the nation. The poem itself is about poems and how black artists must stand for being black and not copy or imitate white poets. Baraka is calling for black artists to have meaning in their art and produce content that defends their blackness. Baraka felt that his work should fully divulge the nationwide racism and create “poems that kill”. Barack uses terms such as “negroleader”, “jewlady’s”, and “whities” to clearly explain that his message is targeting the race hardships faced for people of color living in the south in the 1960s. \n\nIt uses strong imagery to focus on the violence and allow the readers to slip into the mind of Baraka and experience the poem as their own life. “Let there be no love poems written until love can exist freely and cleanly.” Baraka calls for realism in black poetry, to stop cookie cutting away and over-glorifying the lives that black people must live in a racist nation. He wants the black people to understand that they must achieve a black aesthetic and a black worldview in order to be free from the race constraints placed on them by white society.\n\nA poem such as \"Black Art\" (1965), according to Werner Sollors, of Harvard University, expressed the authors need to commit the violence required to \"establish a Black World\".\n\nBaraka even uses onomatopoeia in \"Black Art\" to express that need for violence: \"rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr . . . tuhtuhtuhtuhtuhtuht . . .\" More specifically, lines in \"Black Art\" such as \"Let there be no love poems written / until love can exist freely and cleanly\" juxtaposed with \"We want a black poem. / And a Black World\" demonstrate Baraka's cry for political justice during a time when racial injustice was rampant, despite the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nAmiri Baraka's \"Black Art\" serves as one of his most controversial, yet poetically profound supplements to the Black Arts Movement. In this piece, Baraka merges politics with art, criticizing poems that are not useful to or adequately representative of the Black struggle. First published in 1966, a period particularly known for the Civil Rights Movement, the political aspect of this piece underscores the need for a concrete and artistic approach to the realistic nature involving racism and injustice. Serving as the recognized artistic component to and having roots in the Civil Rights Movement, the Black Arts Movement aims to grant a political voice to black artists (including poets, dramatists, writers, musicians, etc.). Playing a vital role in this movement, Baraka calls out what he considers to be unproductive and assimilatory actions shown by political leaders during the Civil Rights Movement. He describes prominent Black leaders as being \"on the steps of the white house...kneeling between the sheriff's thighs negotiating coolly for his people.\" Baraka also presents issues of euro-centric mentality, by referring to Elizabeth Taylor as a prototypical model in a society that influences perceptions of beauty, emphasizing its influence on individuals of white and black ancestry. Baraka aims his message toward the Black community, with the purpose of coalescing African Americans into a unified movement, devoid of white influences. \"Black Art\" serves as a medium for expression meant to strengthen that solidarity and creativity, in terms of the Black Aesthetic. Baraka believes poems should \"shoot…come at you, love what you are\" and not succumb to mainstream desires.\n\nHe ties this approach into the emergence of hip-hop, which he paints as a movement that presents \"live words…and live flesh and coursing blood.\" Baraka's cathartic structure and aggressive tone are comparable to the beginnings of hip-hop music, which created controversy in the realm of mainstream acceptance, because of its \"authentic, un-distilled, unmediated forms of contemporary black urban music.\" Baraka believes that integration inherently takes away from the legitimacy of having a Black identity and Aesthetic in an anti-Black world. Through pure and unapologetic blackness, and with the absence of white influences, Baraka believes a black world can be achieved. Though hip-hop has been serving as a recognized salient musical form of the Black Aesthetic, a history of unproductive integration is seen across the spectrum of music, beginning with the emergence of a newly formed narrative in mainstream appeal in the 1950s. Much of Baraka's cynical disillusionment with unproductive integration can be drawn from the 50s, a period of rock and roll, in which \"record labels actively sought to have white artists \"cover\" songs that were popular on the rhythm-and-blues charts\" originally performed by African American artists. The problematic nature of unproductive integration is also exemplified by Run-DMC, an American Hip-Hop group founded in 1981, who became widely accepted after a calculated collaboration with the rock group Aerosmith on a remake of the latter's \"Walk This Way\" took place in 1986, evidently appealing to young white audiences. Hip-Hop emerged as an evolving genre of music that continuously challenged mainstream acceptance, most notably with the development of rap in the 1990s. A significant and modern example of this is Ice Cube, a well-known American rapper, songwriter, and actor, who introduced subgenre of hip-hop known as \"gangsta rap,\" merged social consciousness and political expression with music. With the 1960s serving as a more blatantly racist period of time, Baraka notes the revolutionary nature of hip-hop, grounded in the unmodified expression through art. This method of expression in music parallels significantly with Baraka's ideals presented in \"Black Art,\" focusing on poetry that is also productively and politically driven.\n\n"}
{"id": "634877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634877", "title": "Bocca della Verità", "text": "Bocca della Verità\n\nThe Mouth of Truth ( ) is a marble mask in Rome, Italy, which stands against the left wall of the portico of the Santa Maria in Cosmedin church, at the Piazza della Bocca della Verità, the site of the ancient Forum Boarium (the ancient cattle market). It attracts visitors who audaciously stick their hand in the mouth.\n\nThe massive marble mask weighs about 1300 kg and probably depicts the face of the sea god Oceanus. The eyes, nostrils and mouth are open. Historians aren't quite certain what the original purpose of the disc was. It was possibly used as a drain cover in the nearby Temple of Hercules Victor, which had an oculus—a round open space in the middle of the roof, similar to that of the Pantheon. Hence, it could rain inside. It is also thought that cattle merchants used it to drain the blood of cattle sacrificed to the god Hercules. In the thirteenth century the disc was probably removed from the temple and placed against the wall of the Santa Maria in Cosmedin. In the seventeenth century it eventually moved to its current location inside the portico of the church.\n\nThe Mouth of Truth is now known mostly from its appearance in the 1953 film \"Roman Holiday\". The film also uses the Mouth of Truth as a storytelling device since both Hepburn's and Peck's characters are not initially truthful with each other.\nIn \"Het geheim van de afgebeten vingers\" by Dutch writer Rindert Kromhout, the fingers of lying children are cut off by a skeleton with a scythe who lives in the Capuchin Crypt in the Santa Maria della Concezione dei Cappuccini.\n\nThere are a number of \"Bocca della Verità\" replicas and derivative works. A full-size reproduction sits in the Alta Vista Gardens in California and one of Jules Blanchard's sculptures in the Luxembourg Garden in Paris depicts a woman with her hand in the sculpture's mouth. Coin-operated fortune teller machines have been developed and installed in different parts of the world, including one on display in the Musee Mecanique.\n\nThe Mouth of Truth has also been featured as a theme in historical European art. Lucas Cranach the Elder, a German painter during the Renaissance period, created two paintings depicting a woman placing her hand in the mouth of a statue of a lion while onlookers watched, a subject which was drawn by Albrecht Altdorfer and made into a woodcut by the Dutch printmaker Lucas van Leyden.\n\nThe Mouth of Truth is referenced in one chapter of Devilman Lady, by a Devil Beast known as Mita, who utters its Italian name alongside an illustration of the Mouth, before transforming into a spider-like creature with a mouth full of fangs on its back, which rapidly descends and bites off the top of the head of its victims before they can react.\n\nThe Mouth of Truth is depicted as a teacher in the japanese manga Shishunki Renaissance David-kun, the teacher uses his mouth to verify if students are telling the truth or not.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "8297669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8297669", "title": "Carl Mitcham", "text": "Carl Mitcham\n\nCarl Mitcham (born 1941) is a philosopher of technology. Mitcham is a Professor of Liberal Arts and International Studies at the Colorado School of Mines and a professor at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee.\n\nMitcham, a graduate of W. W. Samuell High School in Dallas, was educated at the University of Colorado (BA, MA) and Fordham University (PhD). Teaching appointments include Berea College (Kentucky), St. Catherine College (Kentucky), Brooklyn Polytechnic University, and Pennsylvania State University. Mitcham was a selective political objector to the Vietnam War; although he refused military induction he is not a pacifist.\n\nMitcham has also engaged in the translation of notable philosophical works; for example, in 2004, he helped translate \"Fundamentos de la Meta-Técnica\" (\"The Foundations of Meta-Technics\") by Venezuelan philosopher Ernesto Mayz Vallenilla.\n\nIn November 2006 Mitcham received the international World Technology Network award for Ethics.\n\nOn May 26, 2010, Prof. Mitcham received the Doctor \"Honoris Causa\" award by the Valencian International University (Valencia, Spain). Prof. López Cerezo (Universidad de Oviedo) made a Eulogy and Prof. Mitcham read the speech entitled \"Ethics and Technology: The Axial Age\".\n\nMitcham has authored and co-authored numerous publications. Books, a selection:\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "39998035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39998035", "title": "Centered world", "text": "Centered world\n\nA centered world, according to David Kellogg Lewis, consists of (1) a possible world, (2) an agent in that world, and (3) a time in that world. The concept of centered worlds has epistemic as well as metaphysical uses; for the latter, the three components of a centered world have connections to theories such as actualism, solipsism (especially egocentric presentism and perspectival realism), and presentism, respectively.\n"}
{"id": "585027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=585027", "title": "Chinese musicology", "text": "Chinese musicology\n\nChinese musicology is the academic study of traditional Chinese music. This discipline has a very long history. The concept of music \"yue\" stands among the oldest categories of Chinese thought, however, in the known sources it does not receive a fairly clear definition until the writing of the \"Classic of Music\" (lost during the Han dynasty).\n\nThe first musical scales were derived from the harmonic series. On the Guqin (a traditional instrument) all of the dotted positions are equal string length divisions related to the open string like 1/2, 1/3, 2/3, 1/4, 3/4, etc. and are quite easy to recognize on this instrument. The Guqin has a scale of 13 positions all representing a natural harmonic position related to the open string.\n\nThe ancient Chinese defined, by mathematical means, a gamut or series of \"Shí-èr-lǜ\" (called the 十二律 12 \"lü\") from which various sets of five or seven frequencies were selected to make the sort of \"do re mi\" major scale familiar to those who have been formed with the Western Standard notation. The 12 \"lü\" approximate the frequencies known in the West as the chromatic scale, from A, then B-flat, through to G and A-flat.\n\nMost Chinese music uses a pentatonic scale, with the intervals (in terms of \"lǜ\") almost the same as those of the major pentatonic scale. The notes of this scale are called \"gōng\" 宫, \"shāng\" 商, \"jué\" 角, \"zhǐ\" 徵 and \"yǔ\" 羽. By starting from a different point of this sequence, a scale (named after its starting note) with a different interval sequence is created, similar to the construction of modes in modern Western music.\n\nSince the Chinese system is not an equal tempered tuning, playing a melody starting from the \"lǜ\" nearest to A will not necessarily sound the same as playing the same melody starting from some other \"lǜ\", since the wolf interval will occupy a different point in the scale. The effect of changing the starting point of a song can be rather like the effect of shifting from a major to a minor key in Western music. The scalar tunings of Pythagoras, based on 2:3 ratios (8:9, 16:27, 64:81, etc.), are a western near-parallel to the earlier calculations used to derive Chinese scales.\n\n"}
{"id": "10619616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10619616", "title": "Critical practice", "text": "Critical practice\n\nCritical practice is the methodology used by a critic or observer to understand and evaluate a field of knowledge. While sometimes the fields of knowledge studied are academic, non-academic fields such as merchandising, law enforcement and medical clinical practice have been extensively studied. Critical practice is grounded in the concepts of critical theory. Consultants employing critical practice skills aim to help people improve outcomes. Analysis is applied to groups working in a particular area of expertise and with identifiable practice skills, and usually to a defined range of problems and situations. Thus, practice tends to be based on a restricted view of people and their problems with a limited range of values applied in that practice. \n\nCritical practice aims to develop the ability and skill to see beyond the usual concerns of any given profession, into its unintended side effects, causes and consequences, and to do so from a critical and evaluative perspective.\n\nThus, for example, the profession of social work might be practiced critically through practitioners being conscious that their role may be seen, and could operate, as an agent of social control, rather than just one of promoting some degree of liberation or of empowerment. In such a case the practitioner would be both the observer and the observed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "730735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730735", "title": "D. T. Suzuki", "text": "D. T. Suzuki\n\nDaisetsu Teitaro Suzuki (鈴木 大拙 貞太郎 \"Suzuki Daisetsu Teitarō\"; he rendered his name \"Daisetz\" in 1894; 18 October 1870 – 12 July 1966) was a Japanese author of books and essays on Buddhism, Zen (Chan) and Shin that were instrumental in spreading interest in both Zen and Shin (and Far Eastern philosophy in general) to the West. Suzuki was also a prolific translator of Chinese, Japanese, and Sanskrit literature. Suzuki spent several lengthy stretches teaching or lecturing at Western universities, and devoted many years to a professorship at Ōtani University, a Japanese Buddhist school.\n\nHe was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1963.\n\nD. T. Suzuki was born Teitarō Suzuki in Honda-machi, Kanazawa, Ishikawa Prefecture, the fourth son of physician Ryojun Suzuki. The Buddhist name \"Daisetsu\", meaning \"Great Humility\", the kanji of which can also mean \"Greatly Clumsy\", was given to him by his Zen master Soen (or Soyen) Shaku. Although his birthplace no longer exists, a humble monument marks its location (a tree with a rock at its base). The samurai class into which Suzuki was born declined with the fall of feudalism, which forced Suzuki's mother, a Jōdo Shinshū Buddhist, to raise him in impoverished circumstances after his father died. When he became old enough to reflect on his fate in being born into this situation, he began to look for answers in various forms of religion. His naturally sharp and philosophical intellect found difficulty in accepting some of the cosmologies to which he was exposed.\n\nSuzuki studied at the University of Tokyo. Suzuki set about acquiring knowledge of Chinese, Sanskrit, Pali, and several European languages. During his student years at Tokyo University, Suzuki took up Zen practice at Engaku-ji in Kamakura. (See Zen Training section, below.)\n\nSuzuki lived and studied several years with the scholar Paul Carus. Suzuki was introduced to Carus by Soyen Shaku (also written Soen Shaku), who met him at the World Parliament of Religions held in Chicago in 1893. Carus, who had set up residence in LaSalle, Illinois, approached Soyen Shaku to request his help in translating and preparing Eastern spiritual literature for publication in the West. Soyen Shaku instead recommended his student Suzuki for the job. Suzuki lived at Dr. Carus's home, the Hegeler Carus Mansion, and worked with him, initially in translating the classic \"Tao Te Ching\" from ancient Chinese. In Illinois, Suzuki began his early work \"Outlines of Mahayana Buddhism\".\n\nCarus himself had written a book offering an insight into, and overview of, Buddhism, titled \"The Gospel of Buddha\". Soyen Shaku wrote an introduction for it, and Suzuki translated the book into Japanese. At this time, around the turn of the century, quite a number of Westerners and Asians (Carus, Soyen, and Suzuki included) were involved in the worldwide Buddhist revival that had begun slowly in the 1880s.\n\nIn 1911, Suzuki married Beatrice Erskine Lane, a Radcliffe graduate and Theosophist with multiple contacts with the Bahá'í Faith both in America and in Japan. Later Suzuki himself joined the Theosophical Society Adyar and was an active Theosophist.\n\nBesides living in the United States, Suzuki traveled through Europe before taking up a professorship back in Japan. Suzuki and his wife dedicated themselves to spreading an understanding of Mahayana Buddhism. Until 1919 they lived in a cottage on the Engaku-ji grounds, then moved to Kyoto, where Suzuki began professorship at Ōtani University in 1921. While he was in Kyoto, he visited Dr. Hoseki Shin'ichi Hisamatsu, a famous Zen Buddhist scholar, and they discussed Zen Buddhism together at Shunkō-in temple in the Myōshin-ji temple complex.\n\nIn 1921, the year he joined Ōtani University, he and his wife founded the Eastern Buddhist Society. The Society is focused on Mahayana Buddhism and offers lectures and seminars, and publishes a scholarly journal, \"The Eastern Buddhist\". Suzuki maintained connections in the West and, for instance, delivered a paper at the World Congress of Faiths in 1936, at the University of London (he was an exchange professor during this year).\n\nBesides teaching about Zen practice and the history of Zen (Chan) Buddhism, Suzuki was an expert scholar on the related philosophy called, in Japanese, Kegon, which he thought of as the intellectual explication of Zen experience.\n\nSuzuki received numerous honors, including Japan's National Medal of Culture.\n\nStill a professor of Buddhist philosophy in the middle decades of the 20th century, Suzuki wrote some of the most celebrated introductions and overall examinations of Buddhism, and particularly of the Zen school. He went on a lecture tour of American universities in 1951, and taught at Columbia University from 1952 to 1957.\n\nSuzuki was especially interested in the formative centuries of this Buddhist tradition, in China. A lot of Suzuki's writings in English concern themselves with translations and discussions of bits of the Chan texts the \"Biyan Lu\" (Blue Cliff Record) and the \"Wumenguan\" (Mumonkan/Gateless Passage), which record the teaching styles and words of the classical Chinese masters. He was also interested in how this tradition, once imported into Japan, had influenced Japanese character and history, and wrote about it in English in \"Zen and Japanese Culture\". Suzuki's reputation was secured in England prior to the U.S.\n\nIn addition to his popularly oriented works, Suzuki wrote a translation of the \"Lankavatara Sutra\" and a commentary on its Sanskrit terminology. Later in his life he was a visiting professor at Columbia University. He looked in on the efforts of Saburō Hasegawa, Judith Tyberg, Alan Watts and the others who worked in the California Academy of Asian Studies (now known as the California Institute of Integral Studies), in San Francisco in the 1950s.\n\nIn his later years, he began to explore the Jōdo Shinshū faith of his mother's upbringing, and gave guest lectures on Jōdo Shinshū Buddhism at the Buddhist Churches of America.\n\nD.T. Suzuki also produced an incomplete English translation of the Kyogyoshinsho, the \"magnum opus\" of Shinran, founder of the Jōdo Shinshū school. However, Suzuki did not attempt to popularize the Shin doctrine in the West, as he believed Zen was better suited to the Western preference for Eastern mysticism, though he is quoted as saying that Jōdo Shinshū Buddhism is the \"most remarkable development of Mahayana Buddhism ever achieved in East Asia\".\n\nSuzuki also took an interest in Christian mysticism and in some of the most significant mystics of the West, for example, Meister Eckhart, whom he compared with the Jōdo Shinshū followers called Myokonin. Suzuki was among the first to bring research on the Myokonin to audiences outside Japan as well.\n\nOther works include \"Essays in Zen Buddhism\" (three volumes), \"Studies in Zen Buddhism\", and \"Manual of Zen Buddhism\". Additionally, American philosopher William Barrett compiled many of Suzuki's articles and essays concerning Zen into a volume entitled \"Zen Buddhism\".\n\nSuzuki's Zen master, Soyen Shaku, who also wrote a book published in the United States (English translation by Suzuki), had emphasized the Mahayana Buddhist roots of the Zen tradition. Suzuki's contrasting view was that, in its centuries of development in China, Zen (or Chan) had absorbed much from indigenous Chinese Taoism. Suzuki believed that the Far Eastern peoples were more sensitive, or attuned, to nature than either the people of Europe or those of Northern India.\n\nSuzuki subscribed to the idea that religions are each a sort of organism, which is (through time) subject to \"irritation\" and having a capacity to change or evolve.\n\nIt was Suzuki's contention that a Zen \"satori\" (awakening) was the goal of the tradition's training, but that what distinguished the tradition as it developed through the centuries in China was a way of life radically different from that of Indian Buddhists. In India, the tradition of the mendicant (holy beggar, \"bhikku\" in Pali) prevailed, but in China social circumstances led to the development of a temple and training-center system in which the abbot and the monks all performed mundane tasks. These included food gardening or farming, carpentry, architecture, housekeeping, administration (or community direction), and the practice of folk medicine. Consequently, the enlightenment sought in Zen had to stand up well to the demands and potential frustrations of everyday life.\n\nSuzuki is often linked to the Kyoto School of philosophy, but he is not considered one of its official members. Suzuki took an interest in other traditions besides Zen. His book \"Zen and Japanese Buddhism\" delved into the history and scope of interest of all the major Japanese Buddhist sects.\n\nWhile studying at Tokyo University Suzuki took up Zen practice at Engaku-ji in Kamakura studying initially with Kosen Roshi. After Kosen's passing, Suzuki continued with Kosen's successor at Engaku-ji, Soyen Shaku.\n\nUnder Soyen Shaku, Suzuki's studies were essentially internal and non-verbal, including long periods of sitting meditation (\"zazen\"). The task involved what Suzuki described as four years of mental, physical, moral, and intellectual struggle. During training periods at Engaku-ji, Suzuki lived a monk's life. He described this life and his own experience at Kamakura in his book \"The Training of the Zen Buddhist Monk\". Suzuki characterized the facets of the training as: a life of humility; a life of labor; a life of service; a life of prayer and gratitude; and a life of meditation.\n\nSuzuki was invited by Soyen Shaku to visit the United States in the 1890s, and Suzuki acted as English-language translator for a book written by him (1906). Though Suzuki had by this point translated some ancient Asian texts into English (e.g. Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana), his role in translating and ghost-writing aspects of Soyen Shaku's book was more the beginning of Suzuki's career as a writer in English.\n\nLater in life Suzuki was more inclined to Jodo Shin (True Pure Land) practice on a personal level, seeing in the doctrine of Tariki, or other power as opposed to self power, an abandonment of self that is entirely complementary to Zen practice and yet to his mind even less willful than traditional Zen. In his book \"Buddha of Infinite Light\" (2002), (originally titled, \"Shin Buddhism\") Suzuki declared that, \"Of all the developments that Mahayana Buddhism has achieved in East Asia, the most remarkable one is the Shin teaching of Pure Land Buddhism.\" (p. 22)\n\nSuzuki was the foremost important person in spreading Zen in the West. Philosopher Charles A. Moore said:\nThis is echoed by Nishitani Keiji, who declared:\nThat Suzuki was a university-educated intellectual steeped in knowledge of Western philosophy and literature allowed him to be particularly successful and persuasive in presenting his case to a Western audience. As Suzuki portrayed it, Zen Buddhism was a highly practical religion whose emphasis on direct experience made it particularly comparable to forms of mysticism that scholars such as William James had emphasized as the fountainhead of all religious sentiment. It is this idea of a common essence which made Suzuki's ideas recognizable to a Western audience, who could identify with the Western esotericism concealed in it, disguised as eastern metaphysics. Suzuki presents a version of Zen that can be described as detraditionalized and essentialized. This resemblance is not coincidental, since Suzuki was also influenced by Western esotericism, and even joined the Theosophical Society.\n\nSeveral scholars have identified Suzuki as a Buddhist modernist. As scholar David McMahan describes it, Buddhist modernism consists of\n\nMost scholars agree that the influence of Protestant and Enlightenment values have largely defined some of the more conspicuous attributes of Buddhist modernism. McMahan cites\n\nBuddhist modernist traditions often consist of a deliberate de-emphasis of the ritual and metaphysical elements of the religion, as these elements are seen as incommensurate with the discourses of modernity. Buddhist modernist traditions have also been characterized as being \"detraditionalized,\" often being presented in a way that occludes their historical construction. Instead, Buddhist modernists often employ an essentialized description of their tradition, where key tenets are described as universal and \"sui generis\". It was this form of Zen that has been popularized in the West:\nSuzuki has been criticized for this essentialist approach. As early as 1951 Hu Shih, criticized Suzuki for presenting an idealist picture of Zen.\n\nMcMahan states:\nSuzuki's approach has been marked as \"incomprehensible\":\nAccording to Sharf and Victoria, Suzuki was associated with Japanese nationalism and its propagation via the appraisal of Japanese Zen. He has been criticised for defending the Japanese war-efforts, though Suzuki's thoughts on these have also been placed in the context of western supremacy in the first half of the 20th century, and the reaction against this supremacy in Asian countries.\n\nBrian Victoria delivered lectures in Germany in 2012 in which he revealed evidence of Suzuki's sympathy for the Nazi regime. Victoria writes,\n\n\"D. T. Suzuki left a record of his early view of the Nazi movement that was included in a series of articles published in the Japanese Buddhist newspaper, Chūgai Nippō, on October 3, 4, 6, 11, and 13, 1936.\" In this Suzuki expresses his agreement with Hitler's policies as explained to him by a relative living in Germany.\n\n\"While they don't know much about politics, they have never enjoyed greater peace of mind than they have now. For this alone, they want to cheer Hitler on. This is what my relative told me. It is quite understandable, and I am in agreement with him.\" He also expresses agreement with Hitler's expulsion of the Jews from Germany.\n\n\"Changing the topic to Hitler's expulsion of the Jews, it appears that in this, too, there are a lot of reasons for his actions. While it is a very cruel policy, when looked at from the point of view of the current and future happiness of the entire German people, it may be that, for a time, some sort of extreme action is necessary in order to preserve the nation.\"\n\nSuzuki expressed sympathy with individual Jews. \"As regards individuals, this is truly a regrettable situation.\"\n\nSuzuki was a close friend of Gestapo officer Karlfried Graf von Dürckheim. Durkheim, also a noted expounder of Japanese Zen philosophy in the West, was a committed Nazi and had been a Gestapo officer in Tokyo during the war. He helped his a friend Suzuki introduce Zen Buddhism to the western world. Dürckheim was arrested by the Allies during their occupation of Japan and served more than a year in prison as a member of the Gestapo.\n\nAt the onset of modernization in the Meji period, in 1868, when Japan entered the international community, Buddhism was briefly persecuted in Japan as \"a corrupt, decadent, anti-social, parasitic, and superstitious creed, inimical to Japan's need for scientific and technological advancement\". The Japanese government intended to eradicate the tradition, which was seen as a foreign \"other\", incapable of fostering the nativist sentiments that would be vital for national, ideological cohesion. In addition to this, industrialization led to the breakdown of the parishioner system that had funded Buddhist monasteries for centuries. However, a group of modern Buddhist leaders emerged to argue for the Buddhist cause. These leaders stood in agreement with the government persecution of Buddhism, accepting the notion of a corrupt Buddhist institution in need of revitalization.\n\nAs a response to the modernisation of Japan and the persecution of Buddhism, the \"shin bukkyo\", or \"New Buddhism\" came into existence. It was led by university-educated intellectuals who had been exposed to a vast body of Western intellectual literature. Advocates of New Buddhism, like Suzuki's teachers Kosen and his successor Soyen Shaku, saw this movement as a defense of Buddhism against government persecution, and also saw it as a way to bring their nation into the modern world as a competitive cultural force.\n\nScholars such as Martin Verhoeven and Robert Sharf, as well as Japanese Zen monk G. Victor Sogen Hori, have argued that the breed of Japanese Zen that was propagated by New Buddhism ideologues, such as Imakita Kosen and Soyen Shaku, was not typical of Japanese Zen during their time, nor is it typical of Japanese Zen now. Its importance lies especially within western Zen:\nThe traditional form of Zen has been greatly altered by the Meiji restoration, but Japanese Zen still flourishes as a monastic tradition. The Zen tradition in Japan, in its customary form, required a great deal of time and discipline from monks that laity would have difficulty finding. Zen monks were often expected to have spent several years in intensive doctrinal study, memorizing sutras and poring over commentaries, before even entering the monastery to undergo kōan practice in sanzen with a Zen master. The fact that Suzuki himself was able to do so (as a layman) was largely the invention of New Buddhism.\n\nDuring the Meiji restoration the Nihonjinron philosophy took prevalence. It emphasizes the uniqueness of the Japanese. This uniqueness has been attributed to many different factors. Suzuki attributed it to Zen. In his view, Zen embodies the ultimate essence of all philosophy and religion. He pictured Zen as a unique expression of Asian spirituality, which was considered to be superior to the western ways of thinking.\n\nSharf criticizes this uniqueness-thesis, as propagated by Suzuki:\nSharf also doubts the motivations of Suzuki:\nKemmyō Taira Satō does not agree with this critical assessment of Suzuki:\n\nContemporaries of Suzuki acclaimed his works.\n\nSuzuki's books have been widely read and commented on by many important figures. A notable example is \"An Introduction to Zen Buddhism\", which includes a 30-page commentary by famous analytical psychologist Carl Jung, who wrote of Suzuki:\nBut Jung was also critical, warning against an uncritical borrowing from Asian spirituality.\n\nThese essays were enormously influential when they came out, making Zen known in the West for the very first time:\n\nShortly after, a second series followed: \n\nAfter WWII, a new interpretation:\n\nMiscellaneous:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47271804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47271804", "title": "Deborah Cook (philosopher)", "text": "Deborah Cook (philosopher)\n\nDeborah Cook (born October 12, 1954) is a Canadian philosopher specializing in phenomenology, existentialism, critical theory, and post-structuralism. Cook is the author of several books and numerous articles, with special emphasis on the work of Theodor W. Adorno.\n\nCook received a BA and MA from the University of Ottawa. In 1985 she received a PhD (Doctorat de 3e Cycle) from the Université de Paris I-Panthéon-Sorbonne. Also at the Sorbonne she received a Diplôme d’Etudes approfondies. Cook’s PhD dissertation was on the \"Phénoménologie de la Lecture du Roman\" under advisor Olivier Revault d’Allonnes. While at the Sorbonne she studied with Jacques Derrida and Michel Foucault.\n\nCook has been a professor at the University of Windsor since 1989.\n\nCook has published four books and over 30 articles on the work of Frankfurt School critical theorist Theodor W. Adorno.\n\n"}
{"id": "22749097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22749097", "title": "Edgar Bauer", "text": "Edgar Bauer\n\nEdgar Bauer (7 October 1820 – 18 August 1886) was a German political philosopher and a member of the Young Hegelians. He was the younger brother of Bruno Bauer. According to Lawrence S. Stepelevich, Edgar Bauer was the most anarchistic of the Young Hegelians, and \"...it is possible to discern, in the early writings of Edgar Bauer, the theoretical justification of political terrorism.\" German anarchists such as Max Nettlau and Gustav Landauer credited Edgar Bauer with founding the anarchist tradition in Germany. In the mid-1840s, Marx' and Engels' critique of the Bauer brothers marked the beginning of their collaboration and an important stage in the development of Marxist thought. Edgar Bauer participated in the Revolution of 1848. Subsequently he became a conservative.\n\nEdgar Bauer was born in Charlottenburg. He studied jurisprudence and philosophy at the University of Berlin, where he became a member of the Young Hegelian circle around his brother Bruno Bauer. Other members of his circle were Arnold Ruge, Karl Marx, Max Stirner, Friedrich Engels, Georg Herwegh, Karl Grün, Moses Hess and Mikhail Bakunin. He was especially close to Engels at that time. Edgar Bauer soon became a regular contributor to a variety of philosophical and political publications, distinguishing himself by a particularly enthusiastic revolutionary ideology. He did not follow the 'materialist turn' in Young Hegelian philosophy inaugurated by Ludwig Feuerbach (as Marx, Engels, Grün and others did), but instead remained true to the Neo-Fichtean idealist 'philosophy of action' propagated by his brother Bruno. Like Bruno, Edgar was a staunch anti-theist and considered the emancipation from religion a necessary precondition of social emancipation. Unlike Bruno, who was sceptical of socialism, Edgar considered himself a socialist and was usually associated with the 'True Socialists' around Hess and Grün. When Bruno Bauer was dismissed from his academic position because of his atheism, it became clear to Edgar that, given his brother's reputation and his own growing track record as a radical publicist, an academic career was closed to him. In 1842 he abandoned his studies and became a free-lance writer and journalist. He contributed to the liberal \"Rheinische Zeitung\", among other publications.\n\nIn 1843 he published a book titled \"The Conflict of Criticism with Church and State\". This caused him to be charged with sedition. He was imprisoned for four years in the fortress at Magdeburg. While he was in prison, his former associates Marx and Engels published a scathing critique of him and his brother Bruno, titled \"The Holy Family\" (1844). They resumed the attack in \"The German Ideology\" (1846), which was not published at the time. In spite of this, Edgar Bauer seems to have remained on friendly terms with Marx and Engels. Released on the eve of the Revolution of 1848, Edgar Bauer participated in the revolutionary fighting in Berlin and Hamburg. After the defeat of the revolutionaries he went into hiding and then lived under an assumed name in Altona for several years, working as a journalist. During the German-Danish war over Schleswig-Holstein (1848–51), he supported the Danish side.\n\nIn 1851, facing imminent arrest, he escaped to Denmark and thence to London, England, where he lived in exile for several years. During this time he often met Karl Marx, who was living in London, but the relationship was not one of mutual respect. During one argument with Marx, Bauer even \"lost his temper and punched Marx in the face\". Disillusioned by the failure of the revolution and alienated from most of his fellow refugees, Bauer became increasingly conservative (as did his brother Bruno). From 1852 to 1861 he worked secretly as an informant for the Danish police. In 1856 he publicly distanced himself from his former revolutionary views.\n\nIn 1861, an amnesty enabled Bauer to return to Germany. By now thoroughly conservative, he had renounced anarchism, socialism, democracy, atheism and critical philosophy. He settled in Hanover, became a Prussian civil servant and in 1870 founded the conservative periodical \"Kirchliche Blätter\". He died in Hanover on August 18, 1886. His literary remains are in the \"Archiv der sozialen Demokratie\" (Archive of Social Democracy) in Bonn.\n\n\"'No private property, no privilege, no difference in status, no usurpatory regime'. So reads our pronunciamento; it is negative, but history will write its affirmation.\" — Bauer, E., 'The Political Revolution' (1842). As quoted in: Stepelevich, L. S. (ed.), \"The Young Hegelians. An anthology.\" Cambridge University Press, 1983, pp. 263–274.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4193686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4193686", "title": "Editio princeps", "text": "Editio princeps\n\nIn classical scholarship, the editio princeps (plural: \"editiones principes\") of a work is the first printed edition of the work, that previously had existed only in manuscripts, which could be circulated only after being copied by hand.\n\nFor example, the \"editio princeps\" of Homer is that of Demetrius Chalcondyles, now thought to be from 1488. The most important texts of classical Greek and Roman authors were for the most part produced in \"editiones principes\" in the years on either side of 1500, following the invention of the printing press around 1440.\n\nIn some cases there were possibilities of partial publication, of publication first in translation (for example from Greek to Latin), and of a usage that simply equates with first edition. For a work with several strands of manuscript tradition that have diverged, such as \"Piers Plowman\", \"editio princeps\" is a less meaningful concept.\n\nThe term has long been extended by scholars to works not part of the Ancient Greek and Latin literatures. It is also used for legal works, and other significant documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "46759432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46759432", "title": "Eihei Kōroku", "text": "Eihei Kōroku\n\nEihei Kōroku (), also known by its English translation Dōgen's Extensive Record, is a ten volume collection of works by the Sōtō Zen monk Eihei Dōgen. The bulk of the text, accounting for volumes one through seven, are formal Dharma hall discourses, or \"jōdō\" (上堂) as they are known in Sino-Japanese, given from 1236 to 1252. Volume eight consists of \"informal meetings\" or \"shōsan\"　(小參) that would have taken place in Dōgen's quarters with select groups of monks, as well as \"Dharma words\" or \"hōgo\" (法語), which were letters containing practice instructions to specific students. Volume nine includes a collection of 90 traditional kōans with verse commentary by Dōgen, while volume 10 collects his Chinese poetry.\n\nUnlike Dōgen's other major work the \"Shōbōgenzō\", which was written in vernacular Late Middle Japanese, the text of \"Eihei Kōroku\" is written in the Japanese version of Classical Chinese, known as Kanbun. While Dōgen is also better known for the essays that make up the \"Shōbōgenzō\", most of them were completed by 1244. After that date, nearly coinciding with his move from Kyoto to Eihei-ji, he wrote 405 of the 531 Dharma hall discourses that make up \"Eihei Kōroku\", indicating that he may have come to prefer the \"jōdō\" format over the \"jishu\" style used in the Shōbōgenzō essays. Taigen Dan Leighton, a modern Zen priest and translator of the \"Eihei Kōroku\", believes that the Dharma hall discourses tell us more about Dōgen the individual than the Shōbōgenzō as they reveal his training methodology, humor, and even emotional states.\n"}
{"id": "41560174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41560174", "title": "Electoral integrity", "text": "Electoral integrity\n\nElectoral integrity refers to international standards and global norms governing the appropriate conduct of elections.\n\nThese standards have been endorsed in a series of authoritative conventions, treaties, protocols, and guidelines by agencies of the international community, notably by the decisions of the UN General Assembly, by regional bodies such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Organization of American States (OAS), and the African Union (AU), and by member states in the United Nations. Following endorsement, these standards apply universally to all countries throughout the electoral cycle, including during the pre-electoral period, the campaign, on polling day, and in its aftermath.\n\nThe contrary notion of 'electoral malpractice' refers to contests violating international standards and global norms. Problems can arise at every stage of the process, from electoral and ballot access laws favoring incumbents to lack of a level playing field in money and media during campaigns to inaccurate voter registers, flawed counts and partial electoral management bodies.\n\nThere is nothing novel about problems of flawed or failed elections which suffer from fraud, corruption, or vote-rigging. Indeed, during the 18th and 19th Centuries, such practices were common in countries holding popular contests, including in rotten and pocket boroughs in Britain and machine politics in the United States. Concern about malpractices has grown in recent decades, however, along with the spread of elections to almost every state worldwide.\n\nContemporary campaigns attracting considerable international concern include allegations of irregularities occurring during the Russian presidential election, 2012, problems of violence during and after the Kenyan general election, 2007, and controversies in the Cambodian general election, 2013.\n\nThe foundation of these standards rests on Article 21(3) in the \"Universal Declaration of Human Rights\" (1948). This specifies that \"[t]he will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures.\"\n\nThese commitments were further developed in Article 25 of the UN International Covenant for Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR of 1966), namely the need for:\n\n\nThe \"1990 Copenhagen Document of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe\" (CSCE) made commitments that included free elections at regular intervals; the popular election of all seats in at least one chamber; universal and equal suffrage; the right to establish political parties and their clear separation from the state; campaigning in a free and fair atmosphere; unimpeded access to media; secret ballots, with counting and reporting conducted honestly and the results reported publicly; and the due winners being installed and allowed to serve their full terms.\n\nThe \"2002 Venice Commission’s Code of Good Practice in Electoral Matters\" spells out in detail what is meant by principles such as the universal, equal, free, secret, and direct suffrage.\n\nSome of the most detailed standards are contained in the practical guidelines for electoral observers published by regional intergovernmental organizations, exemplified by the \"OSCE Election Observation Handbook\". Similar principles have been adopted in the guidelines developed by the African Union, European Union, and Organization of American States.\n\nThe most recent statement of these norms in the \"UN General Assembly resolution 63/163\" (April 12, 2012): “Strengthening the role of the United Nations in enhancing periodic and genuine elections and the promotion of democratization.” The language in this document reflects and extends a series of similar statements of principle endorsed regularly by the United Nations since 1991. Resolution 63/163 reaffirms that “democracy is a universal value based on the freely expressed will of the people to determine their own political, economic, social and cultural systems and their full participation in all aspects of their lives.” Thus, democratic principles are explicitly endorsed by the United Nations General Assembly, along with a commitment to “the importance of fair, periodic and genuine elections” as the primary mechanism that allows citizens “to express their will.”\n\nThis does not imply, however, that the United Nations or the international community endorse any specific institutional design or constitutional mechanisms that can best achieve global norms, leaving this as a matter for national sovereignty. The UN resolution recognizes the responsibility of member states, “for ensuring free and fair elections, free of intimidation, coercion and tampering of vote counts, and that all such acts are sanctioned accordingly.” The United Nations’ role (especially through the Electoral Assistance Division of the Department of Political Affairs and the United Nations Development Programme) is seen as one of providing electoral assistance and support for the promotion of democratization, but only at the specific request of the member state.\n\nAttempts to document evidence of violations of international standards of electoral integrity can be found in the electoral observer monitoring reports published after each election by regional organizations.\n\nComparative evidence is also available from the expert survey of Perceptions of Electoral Integrity conducted by the Electoral Integrity Project. This includes the report, part of an annual series, \"The year in Elections, 2013\" monitoring the quality of 73 presidential and parliamentary elections. In 2016, Arizona scored the worst in the U.S., with a 53, and Vermont the best, with a 75, on a scale of 100, the Arizona Republic reported. \"Slate\" reported that a score of 58 is around the same as Cuba. The WSJ remarked that with a score of 56, Cuba \"jails political dissidents, hasn’t transferred power since 1959, unless the 2008 presidential handoff to Raúl Castro from Fidel Castro counts.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50019630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50019630", "title": "Eraclie Sterian", "text": "Eraclie Sterian\n\nEraclie Sterian (also known as Eracle or Eracli Sterian; November 23, 1872 – 1948) was a Romanian physician, writer, and political activist, known for introducing sexology and sex education in his country. Trained as a pathologist, he established his reputation as a popularizer of conventional and alternative medicine (primarily hydrotherapy), putting out the influential magazine \"Medicul Poporului\". His early work also dealt with life extension practices and warnings about the effects of pollution. Sterian was additionally a publisher of textbooks and literary works, and author of dramas—including the pro-natalist propaganda play, \"Tout pour l'enfant\", performed at the Théâtre Antoine in 1913.\n\nAs a doctor and a social critic, Sterian held unconventional views on eugenics, human evolution, and the social role of sexual experiences. These caused a lasting scandal for their challenging of ancestral taboos—although, overall, Sterian remained a conservative and an avowed Christian, who claimed to have found a cure for compulsive masturbation. His sex manuals, aimed at a young audience, enjoyed success nationwide, and went through several editions in the 1910s.\n\nA Colonel in the Romanian Land Forces, Sterian was also an expert of typhus, having taken part in the World War I campaign against epidemics. In old age, Sterian focused on defending his status as a property owner in Bucharest, founding an Association of Mortgaged Owners and Debtors, and then joining the nation-wide League Against Usury. He was survived by his son, the writer-politician Paul Sterian, and by his daughter in law, painter Margareta Sterian.\n\nBorn in the port city of Galați, Eraclie Sterian was the son of Dimitrie and Maria. Both parents were natives of Craiova, and had participated in the Romanian War of Independence: Dimitrie as an officer in combat, Maria as a field nurse. His maternal uncle may have been the pioneering microbiologist Constantin Levaditi; on his paternal side, Eraclie was the nephew of actors Aristide Demetriade and Aristizza Romanescu, and of poet Mircea Demetriade. The Sterians were widely thought of as Jewish, and, more specifically, Eraclie was rumored to have been baptized a Christian from Judaism. The family rejected such claims.\n\nEraclie left Galați as a child and moved with his family to Craiova, where he would later graduate from Carol I National College, in the same class as mathematician Gheorghe Țițeica. From 1891 to 1897, he took courses at the University of Bucharest medical school, and then was an intern at Brâncovenesc Hospital. As a member of the Medical Students' Society from 1892, he gave lectures on the treatment of gonorrhea and the state of physician–patient privilege. In May 1897, he became a Doctor of Medicine with a thesis on aspergillosis, following up with papers on malaria (1899) and tuberculosis transmission (1902); he also edited for print I. T. Thomescu's courses on pathology and internal medicine, and lectured at the Romanian Atheneum on the prevention of gout. Settling in Bucharest, where he briefly put out the magazine \"Spitalul\" (\"The Hospital\"), Sterian married Alexandrina Gulimănescu, daughter of a florist from Pitești. Together, they had four children, including sons Paul (born 1904) and Constantin. Their home by 1912 was on Bibescu-Vodă Street, 22.\n\nIn parallel to his work in conventional medicine, Sterian was becoming a follower of Sebastian Kneipp's water cures. He published his own introduction on the subject, including a biography of Kneipp, in 1904. In 1903, he relaunched his work in medical journalism with a review called \"Tribuna Sănătăței\" (\"Health Tribune\"), and then involved himself in public debates over the medical implications of wearing corsets. By late 1904, he was arguing, against Dimitrie Gerota, that corsets were not harmful in themselves. From November 1, 1905, to May 7, 1911, Sterian put out a weekly magazine, first as \"Medicina Populară\" (\"Popular Medicine\"), then as \"Medicul Poporului\" (\"People's Physician\"). He began writing occasional articles for \"Familia\", including a 1906 piece on life extension, advertising iodine-based cures. His other opinion pieces were published under pseudonyms: Ester (in Alexandru Macedonski's \"Liga Conservatoare\"), Est, and Ilcare.\n\nSterian's popularization of health subjects earned him a following among the youth and working-class readers. This is attested by writer Panait Istrati, who grew up reading \"Medicina Populară\". In 1908, Sterian published his best-seller, \"Educația sexelor\" (\"Sex Education\"). It had another edition published that same year, and three more, including a French translation, before 1915. It was complimented by a sex manual, \"În noaptea nunții\" (\"On Your Wedding Night\"), published in two editions in 1909. Popular with the regular public, such works were found unpalatable by Christian critics, who objected in particular to Sterian's claim that sexual refinement was one of \"the holy ancestral values\". The Greek-Catholic intellectual Teofil A. Bălibanu, who read \"Educația sexelor\" in high school, called it \"a diabolic work\", alleging that \"tens of thousands of young men and women\" had been driven astray by Sterian. Doctor Ștefan Irimescu dismissed Sterian as a profiteer, noting that the sexology books, rich in \"tiny disgusting details\", \"excite the morbid curiosity of his various readers\".\n\nNevertheless, the books took a conservative view on issues such as masturbation. Sterian believed that recluse male youth were driven into compulsive self-stimulation by \"lack of exercise, lack of fresh air, [and by] reading sensual stories and novels\", as well as by oxalic acid as found in chocolate. Sterian thought that chronic male masturbators could be recognized by their \"pervasive scent of sperm\", and also by mannerisms, such as laughing for no apparent reason. He also claimed to have cured thousands of \"ephebes\" with iodine syrup and injections of cacodylic acid. He used similar treatments for impotence, where he also recommended electroconvulsive therapy.\n\nHis range of interests extended over those years. His topical brochures dealt with life extension treatments, as well as with balneotherapy (at Băile Govora and on the Black Sea Littoral). His proposal that baths could cure tuberculosis was detailed in another 1908 pamphlet, \"Omul oceanic\" (\"The Oceanic Man\"). Also that year, he attended a congress of thalassotherapy in Opatija. First stated in 1909, his claim that he could cure tuberculosis with physiotherapy was met with indignation by the medical establishment. Irimescu, as head physician of Filaret Hospital, called him \"illiterate\", and suggested that \"Medicul Poporului\" was \"intoxicating the public\" with \"repugnant\" information. In a March 1910 article for \"Medicul Poporului\", Sterian challenged American eugenicists and their policy of compulsory sterilization, as well as orthodox degeneration theory. In his view, sterilization could provide some form of racial hygiene, but could do nothing to curb crime, mental disease, or alcoholism.\n\nHis first involvement in political life, as a Romanian nationalist, came late in 1908, and was occasioned by the Bosnian crisis. Speaking to a nationalist crowd at Dacia Hall, he protested against Austria-Hungary and the Triple Alliance, and even called for the re-annexation of Bukovina by the Kingdom of Romania. A while after, as concerned members of the Romanian Orthodox Church, Sterian and his uncle Mircea Demetriade joined the movement supporting Gherasim Safirin, the Bishop of Roman, in his conflict with the secularizing Romanian Synod. At the time, Sterian publicly referred to the Synod as manipulated by \"atheists\" and \"gave sinners\". His wife Alexandrina soon became a major patron of Saint Catherine Church, Bucharest.\n\nBefore the elections of 1912, Sterian was also a public speaker at rallies organized by the Conservative Party. To May 15, 1912, he served in the Conservative administration as Comptroller at the Ministry of Commerce. He was co-opted as a medical expert by the Romanian Army bulletin, \"Buletinul Armatei și Marinei\", and also wrote for the nationally circulated weekly \"Săptămâna Politică și Culturală\". Also in 1912, he joined Victor Anestin's Astronomical Society.\n\nIn 1913, Sterian edited for print the poem \"Ali's Dream\", by his uncle Demetriade. His own tragicomedy, \"Tout pour l'enfant\" (\"All for the Child\"), was staged in Paris by Théâtre Antoine. Starring Ève Francis and Allain Dhurtal, it registered significant success during the summer 1913 season. If followed the tribulations of a sterile lady, Jeanne Montrose, who encourages her husband to force himself on the much younger Fernande. The conflict over the resulting child is miraculously resolved when Jeanne agrees to let Fernande replace her as Mrs. Montrose. Emery, the staff critic at \"Comoedia\", gave the play a poor review, calling it a \"loony bin\". Robert de Flers wrote in \"Le Figaro\": \"Dr. Eraclie Stérian—apparently well-known in Romania for his scientific works—has set for himself no less a goal than to provide France with a new means to combat depopulation [...]. But heavens, how could Mr. Stérian imagine that in order to produce children for the French—something not at all easy to do—he should first set himself to produce a play—that which is even more difficult? [...] Mr. Eraclie Stérian has an exceedingly large conception of the family, but he also has only a faint notion of what dramatic art is.\"\n\nWith the 1913 book \"Cum putem mări cantitatea de vieață și Paradoxele longevității\" (\"How Me May Enhance Life Quantitatively, and The Paradoxes of Longevity\"), Sterian produced a more radical critique of degeneration theory, proposing a new take on human evolution. He hypothesized that modern man was an ape species that had suffered adaptation to syphilis, which, in his reading, meant increased intelligence. Although he believed that syphilitic infection was a \"civilizing hero\", Sterian noted that the modern form of the epidemic needed to be kept in check. The book mainly insisted on solutions for the increase of man's lifespan. During the research phase, Sterian offered free consultations to all of Bucharest's centenarians. His overall conclusion was that, through control of one's effort and cultivation of one's intellect, people could live up to age 124.\n\nIn summer 1914, shortly before the start of World War I, \"La Presse Médicale\" published his French-language essay on the supposed medical hazards of asphalt concrete. Sterian argued that, being impossible to sweep clean, asphalt created unhygienic dust, and also warned that asphalt roads had a serious risk of structural collapse. During the following two years, in still-neutral Romania, he returned to his literary work, this time published in Romanian. \"Tout pour l'enfant\" was translated as \"Copilul\" (\"The Child\"), and bound together with Sterian's second comedy, \"O invenție ciudată\" (\"A Strange Invention\"). Following Romania's entry into the war, Sterian joined the medical officers' corps of the Second Army, becoming a Major on April 1, 1917, and a Lieutenant Colonel exactly four years later. He earned distinction with his work in combating typhus, contracting the disease himself and publishing his observations in 1918, when other articles of his also saw print in Ionescu-Caion's magazine, \"Cronicarul\". The year also marked his son Paul's debut in literature, at age 14.\n\nDecommissioned and promoted to reserve Colonel on October 1, 1924, Sterian returned to his native city in April 1926 to give a lecture on social medicine and social hygiene—this enterprise was sponsored by the Cultural League for the Unity of All Romanians. Having built himself a townhouse at his old home on Bibescu-Vodă, he joined a protest movement of the Bucharest property-owners against the tax rates. This was formalized into a Property Owners' Syndicate, founded on December 21, 1925, and presided upon by Constantin Tamara.\n\nSterian also made a brief return to politics following the Great Depression, when he founded the activist Association of Mortgaged Owners and Debtors. It was especially active during early 1930, when, together with the larger League Against Usury (LCC), it preached anti-capitalist rebellion at agricultural shows. The authorities kept it under watch, viewing it as an outside associate of the outlawed Romanian Communist Party. Sterian's Association finally merged into the LCC in November 1930. Sterian later made returns to medical research, and, in 1936, claimed to have cured Pott disease using seawater (\"marine plasma\") injections.\n\nOver those years, Paul Sterian had surpassed his father's renown, becoming one of the leading poets of the \"Gândirea\" circle, as well as a noted economist, sociologist, and diplomat. He may have joined the fascist Iron Guard at some point in the early-to-mid 1930s and was alleged to be hosting shooting practice for its members on one of Eraclie's properties. Married to artist Margareta Sterian, Paul was later head of legation in Washington, D. C., then, during World War II, a public servant of the Ion Antonescu regime. As the regime adopted hard-line antisemitic policies (Paul Sterian was tasked with auctioning off confiscated Jewish property), the family again had to dismiss public rumors according to which they were Jewish.\n\nAt that late stage of his life, Sterian Sr returned to publishing under the pen name Ave Caesar, with \"Încercări de etimologie\" (\"Essays in Etymology\", 1939–1940). Under his real name, he presented his findings to the Friends of Literary History in late November 1940. According to literary historian Victor Durnea, this contribution was forgettable, \"obviously the work of a dilettante, often ridiculous in its claims.\" Eraclie Sterian died in 1948, just as Romania was entering a period of communist rule. The new regime marginalized, imprisoned, and ultimately rehabilitated his writer son.\n\n"}
{"id": "12886765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12886765", "title": "Eugen Fink", "text": "Eugen Fink\n\nEugen Fink (11 December 1905 – 25 July 1975) was a German philosopher.\n\nFink was born in 1905 as the son of a government official in Germany. He spent his first school years with an uncle who was a Catholic priest. Fink attended a grammar school in Konstanz where he succeeded with his extraordinary memory. After his graduation exam in 1925, he studied philosophy, history, German language and economics, initially at Münster and Berlin and then in Freiburg with Edmund Husserl.\n\nAs Husserl's assistant, he was a representative of phenomenological idealism and later a follower of Martin Heidegger. He approached the problem of Being as a manifestation of the cosmic movement with Man being a participant in this movement. Fink called the philosophical problems pre-questions, that will lead to the true philosophy by the way of an ontological practice.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2784497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2784497", "title": "Evolutionarily significant unit", "text": "Evolutionarily significant unit\n\nAn evolutionarily significant unit (ESU) is a population of organisms that is considered distinct for purposes of conservation. Delineating ESUs is important when considering conservation action. \nThis term can apply to any species, subspecies, geographic race, or population. Often the term \"species\" is used rather than ESU, even when an ESU is more technically considered a subspecies or variety rather than a biological species proper. In marine animals the term \"stock\" is often used as well.\n\nDefinitions of an ESU generally include at least one of the following criteria:\n\nCriterion 2 considers the gene flow between populations, measured by F. A high degree of differentiation between two populations among genes that provide no adaptive advantage to either population (known as \"neutral markers\") implies a lack of gene flow, showing that random drift has occurred in isolation from other populations. Very few migrants per generation are needed to prevent strong differentiation of neutral markers. Even a single migrant per generation may be enough for neutral markers to show gene flow between populations, making it difficult to differentiate the populations through neutral markers.\n\nCriterion 3 does not consider neutral genetic markers, instead looking at locally adapted traits of the population. Local adaptations may be present even with some gene flow from other populations, and even when there is little differentiation at neutral markers among ESUs. Reciprocal transplantation experiments are necessary to test for genetic differentiation for phenotypic traits, and differences in selection gradients across habitats. Such experiments are generally more difficult than the fixation index tests of criterion 2, and may be impossible for very rare or endangered species.\n\nFor example, Cryan's buckmoth (\"Hemileuca maia\") feeds only on the herb \"Menyanthes trifoliata\", commonly known as buckbean, and while indistinguishable morphologically from related buckmoths, and not differentiated at the genetic markers tested, the moth is highly adapted to its host plant, having 100% survivorship on \"Menyanthes\", while close genetic relatives all died when reared on the plant. In this case gene flow was sufficient to reduce differentiation at neutral markers, but did not prevent local host adaptation.\n\nBoth criteria 2 and 3 have the problem that there is no clear dichotomy between ESU and not-ESU, as genetic differentiation between populations forms a continuum, prompting a contention for consideration of both genetic and ecological processes in identifying ESUs. Because the different approaches to designating ESUs each have their benefits, and the need and form of management prescriptions may vary across contexts, some support an \"adaptive\" approach to identification of ESUs, for instance suggesting consideration of facets from numerous designation methods.\n\n\nThe equivalent term used by COSEWIC is \"Wildlife Species\", or for brevity just \"species\", which is used to refer to biological species, subspecies, varieties, or geographically or genetically distinct populations of organisms.\n\n"}
{"id": "401162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401162", "title": "Explication", "text": "Explication\n\nThe idea and practice of explication is rooted in the verb to explicate, which concerns the process of \"unfolding\" and of \"making clear\" the meaning of things, so as to make the implicit explicit. The expression \"explication\" is used in both analytic philosophy and literary theory.\n\nExplication can be regarded as a scientific process which transforms and replaces \"an inexact prescientific concept\" (which Carnap calls the explicandum), with a \"new exact concept\" (which he calls the explicatum). An extended document, like an essay or thesis which describes and explains the new explicit knowledge, is usually called an \"Explication\". But an explication may also be contained and expressed in shorter formats, such as in paragraphs and sentences, which are deliberately drafted to emphasise the nature and impact of new explicit knowledge which draws on, and are improvements upon, previous knowledge.\n\nAn explication in the Carnapian sense is purely stipulative, and thus a subclass of normative definitions. Hence, an explication can not be true or false, just more or less suitable for its purpose. (Cf. Rorty's argument about the purpose and value of philosophy in Rorty, (2003), “A pragmatist view of contemporary analytic philosophy”, in Egginton, W. and Sandbothe, M. (Eds), The Pragmatic Turn in Philosophy, Suny Press, New York, NY.)\n\nExamples of inexact daily life concepts in need of explication are our concepts of cause and of conditionals. Our daily life concept of cause does not distinguish between necessary causes, sufficient causes, complete causes etc. Each of these more precise concepts is an explication of our natural concept of cause.\n\nNatural language will only specify truth conditions for propositions of the form \"If p, then q\" for situations where \"p\" is true. (Most of us probably don't have any clear intuitions regarding the truth conditions of the sentence \"If I go out in the sun, I will get sunburned\" in situations where I never go out in the sun.) An explication of the conditional will also specify truth conditions for situations where \"p\" is not true.\n\nCarnap's argument provides a helpful foundation in understanding and clarifying the nature and value of explication in defining and describing \"new\" knowledge.\n\nOthers' reviews of Carnap's argument offer additional insights about the nature of explication. In particular, Bonolio's paper (2003) \"Kant’s Explication and Carnap’s Explication: The Redde Rationem\", and Maher's (2007) \"Explication defended\", add weight to the argument that explication is an appropriate methodology for formal philosophy.\n\nWhen working with explication, it is essential to be clear, and to make clear whether you are dealing with the explication \"process\" (and hence working with the verb or gerund), or dealing with the \"outcomes\" of the process, such as a work which documents, describes and explains the new explicit knowledge.\n\nBased on the etymology of the word explication, studies using explication, and extended argumentation we can deduce that explication in the arts, humanities and social sciences is largely an \"interpretative\" process where the outcomes - the new explicit knowledge - is open to subsequent dispute, with the possibility of additional and/or different meanings being derived in the future.\n\nOn this argument, new explicit knowledge is therefore contingent and context specific. New explicit knowledge is also informed by the explicant's competence in dealing with the explication process, plus an ethical concern that the outcomes (i.e. the new explicit knowledge) can be considered to be an improvement and \"true\" (i.e. not yet disaffirmed). (cf. Harrison, 2006).\n\nIn the Natural semantic metalanguage theory, explications are semantic representations of vocabulary. These explications are made up of a very limited set of words called semantic primes which are considered to have universal meaning across all languages.\n\nAn example of an explication of the word \"happy\"\":\"\nX feels happy = \nWhat sets the Natural Semantic Metalanguage Theory's explications apart from previous theories, is that these explications can fit into natural language, even if it sounds very awkward. For example:\nThe clown looks [happy]\n\nThe clown looks like [the clown thinks something like this: 'something good happened to me; I wanted this; I don't want other things now'; because of this, the clown feels something good].\nExplications in the Natural Semantic Metalanguage are neither exact dictionary definitions, nor encyclopedic explanations of a concept. They often differ slightly depending upon the personal experiences of the person writing them. In this way, they can be said to \"rely heavily on 'folk theories,' that is, the rather naive understandings that most of us have about how life, the universe, and everything work.\" Explications of abstract concepts, such as color, do not list any scientific facts about the object or concrete definitions. Instead, the explications use comparisons and examples from the real world.\n\nThe terms 'Explication' and 'Explication de texte' have different meanings.\n\nAs argued by Carnap (1950), in science and philosophy, \n\"explication consists in transforming a given more or less inexact concept into an exact one or, rather, in replacing the first by the second. We call the given concept (or the term used for it) the explicandum, and the exact concept proposed to take the place of the first (or the term proposed for it) the explicatum. The explicandum may belong to everyday language or to a previous stage in the development of scientific language. The explicatum must be given by explicit rules for its use, for example, by a definition which incorporates it into a well-constructed system of scientific either logicomathematical or empirical concepts.\"\n\nIn this context, 'explication' is now regarded as \"an appropriate methodology for formal philosophy\". (Maher, 2007).\n\nBy contrast, in literary criticism, the term 'explication' is used as a proxy for the term \"explication de texte\", where additional understandings and meanings are derived from the \"close reading\" of (say) a poem, novel or play.\n\nIn this process, explication often involves a line-by-line or episode-by-episode commentary on what is going on in a text. While initially this might seem reasonably innocuous, \"explication de texte\", and explication per se, is an interpretative process where the resulting new knowledge, new insights or new meanings, are open to subsequent debate and disaffirmation by others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11816235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11816235", "title": "George Chatterton-Hill", "text": "George Chatterton-Hill\n\nGeorge Chatterton-Hill (1883–1947) was the Irish writer of several books on evolution and sociology. He wrote at the start of the 20th century, when the rediscovery of Gregor Mendel's work, had created turmoil over Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection. He was also very influenced by the writings of Herbert Spencer regarding evolution and society, and of Benjamin Kidd regarding society and religion.\n\nHe emphasises the impossibility of liberalism, which recommends individual freedom insofar as it does not restrict the individual freedom of others. The objection, he says, is that it is inconsistent with competition. Liberalism, he says, is not possible in the context of evolutionary theory, given man's ceaseless urge for expansion which conflicts with the idea of equality for all. In reality, he claims, the superior group or class always oppresses the inferior masses, who eventually revolt. All revolutions result simply in the replacement of the ruling class by a new ruling class. He refers to the German concept of Rechtsstaat, and his ideas reflect the prominence of social Darwinism of the time. \n\nChatterton-Hill spent World War I in Germany out of Irish nationalist sentiment and corresponded with Roger Casement. He was said to have worked for German politician Matthias Erzberger as his private secretary according to Charles Curry's book and described there also as \"born in Ceylon of an Irish father and native mother but never to have put foot on Irish soil\".\n\n\"He was ... married to a German lady, and lived in Germany for some time prior to the outbreak of [the Second World War]. When war broke out he was actually in hospital, suffering very acutely. He was allowed out of hospital by the Germans in January or February, 1940, but was immediately put into a concentration camp, where he was labelled as an undesirable alien. He was kept there until January, 1941, when, on account of the very extreme state into which his health had got, ... it was thought that he would be better outside than in. He had no means of earning his livelihood, and engaged himself in translating the British news into German for the Germans in Berlin. This, presumably, went on, ... until the end of the war when [the British] arrived in Berlin.\n\nChatterton-Hill died on 12 January 1947. His German wife was airlifted to the United Kingdom on 19 February 1947 sent to a hostel in Renfrewshire and given an ex gratia payment of £1,084 which enabled her to have an income of a 35s. a week annuity.\n\n"}
{"id": "311344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311344", "title": "Gnostic Society", "text": "Gnostic Society\n\nThe Gnostic Society is an organization founded in Los Angeles in 1928, and incorporated in 1939, by John Morgan Pryse (1863-1952) and his brother James Morgan Pryse (1859-1942) for studies of Gnosticism. Stephan A. Hoeller, PhD, noted author and lecturer and a leading exponent of Gnosticism as living religious practice, has been director of studies since 1963, and is also the Bishop of the Ecclesia Gnostica.\n\nThe Gnostic Society is an educational organization \"dedicated to advancing the study, understanding, and individual experience of Gnosis.\" Dr. Hoeller has been giving Friday evening lectures at the Gnostic Society in the Los Angeles area for over forty years. Admission is free, relying on voluntary offerings. Many of these lectures have been recorded and are available in mp3 format.\n\n"}
{"id": "58613310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58613310", "title": "Heidegger: A (Very) Critical Introduction", "text": "Heidegger: A (Very) Critical Introduction\n\nHeidegger: A (Very) Critical Introduction is a 2008 book by Sean J. McGrath, in which the author provides a theological analysis of Martin Heidegger's thought and its relation with his political endeavors.\n\nThis book can be said to be an extension of McGrath's previous work \"The Early Heidegger and Medieval Philosophy\". McGrath argues for a clear connection between Heidegger’s Nazi sympathies and his relationship to Christianity.\n\n\"Heidegger: A (Very) Critical Introduction\" was commissioned by the Centre for Theology and Philosophy at the University of Nottingham, the theological think-tank headed by the Anglican theologian John Milbank.\nIt has been reviewed in \"Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews\", \"Dialog: A Journal of Theology\", \"Religious Studies Review\", \"The Heythrop Journal\" and \"Expository Times\".\nJohn Hughes described the book as \"one of the clearest and most elegantly written [accounts of Heidegger] I have come across.\"\n"}
{"id": "38521219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38521219", "title": "History of type theory", "text": "History of type theory\n\nThe type theory was initially created to avoid paradoxes in a variety of formal logics and rewrite systems. Later, type theory referred to a class of formal systems, some of which can serve as alternatives to naive set theory as a foundation for all mathematics.\n\nIt has been tied to formal mathematics since \"Principia Mathematica\" to today's proof assistants.\n\nIn a letter to Gottlob Frege (1902) Russell announced his discovery of the paradox in Frege's Begriffsschrift. Frege promptly responded, acknowledging the problem and proposing a solution in a technical discussion of \"levels\". To quote Frege:\n\nIncidentally, it seems to me that the expression \"a predicate is predicated of itself\" is not exact. A predicate is as a rule a first-level function, and this function requires an object as argument and cannot have itself as argument (subject). Therefore I would prefer to say \"a concept is predicated of its own extension\".\n\nHe goes about showing how this might work but seems to pull back from it. As a consequence of what has become known as Russell's paradox both Frege and Russell had to quickly amend works that they had at the printers. In an Appendix B that Russell tacked onto his \"The Principles of Mathematics\" (1903) one finds his \"tentative\" theory of types. The matter plagued Russell for about five years.\n\nWillard Quine presents a historical synopsis of the origin of the theory of types and the \"ramified\" theory of types: after considering abandoning the theory of types (1905), Russell proposed in turn three theories:\nQuine observes that Russell's introduction of the notion of \"apparent variable\" had the following result:\nthe distinction between 'all' and 'any': 'all' is expressed by the bound ('apparent') variable of universal quantification, which ranges over a type, and 'any' is expressed by the free ('real') variable which refers schematically to any unspecified thing irrespective of type.\n\nQuine dismisses this notion of \"bound variable\" as \"pointless apart from a certain aspect of the theory of types\".\n\nQuine explains the \"ramified\" theory as follows: \"It has been so called because the type of a function depends both on the types of its arguments and on the types of the apparent variables contained in it (or in its expression), in case these exceed the types of the arguments\". Stephen Kleene in his 1952 \"Introduction to Metamathematics\" describes the \"ramified\" theory of types this way:\n\nBut because the stipulations of the ramified theory would prove (to quote Quine) \"onerous\", Russell in his 1908 \"Mathematical logic as based on the theory of types\" also would propose his \"axiom of reducibility\". By 1910 Whitehead and Russell in their \"Principia Mathematica\" would further augment this axiom with the notion of a \" matrix \" — a fully extensional specification of a function. From its matrix a function could be derived by the process of \"generalization\" and vice versa, i.e. the two processes are reversible — (i) generalization from a matrix to a function (by using apparent variables) and (ii) the reverse process of reduction of type by courses-of-values substitution of arguments for the apparent variable. By this method impredicativity could be avoided.\n\nEventually Emil Post (1921) would lay waste to Russell's \"cumbersome\" Theory of Types with his \"truth functions\" and their truth tables. In his \"Introduction\" to his 1921 Post places the blame on Russell's notion of apparent variable: \"Whereas the complete theory [of Whitehead and Russell (1910, 1912, 1913)] requires for the enunciation of its propositions real and apparent variables, which represent both individuals and propositional functions of different kinds, and as a result necessitates the cumbersome theory of types, this subtheory uses only real variables, and these real variables represent but one kind of entity, which the authors have chosen to call elementary propositions\".\n\nAt about the same time Ludwig Wittgenstein made short work of the theory of types in his 1922 work Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus in which he points out the following in parts 3.331–3.333:\n\nWittgenstein proposed the truth-table method as well. In his 4.3 through 5.101, Wittgenstein adopts an unbounded Sheffer stroke as his fundamental logical entity and then lists all 16 functions of two variables (5.101).\n\nThe notion of matrix-as-truth-table appears as late as the 1940–1950s in the work of Tarski, e.g. his 1946 indexes \"Matrix, see: Truth table\"\n\nRussell in his 1920 \"Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy\" devotes an entire chapter to \"The axiom of Infinity and logical types\" wherein he states his concerns: \"Now the theory of types emphatically does not belong to the finished and certain part of our subject: much of this theory is still inchoate, confused, and obscure. But the need of \"some\" doctrine of types is less doubtful than the precise form the doctrine should take; and in connection with the axiom of infinity it is particularly easy to see the necessity of some such doctrine\".\n\nRussell abandons the axiom of reducibility: In the second edition of \"Principia Mathematica\" (1927) he acknowledges Wittgenstein's argument. At the outset of his Introduction he declares \"there can be no doubt ... that there is no need of the distinction between real and apparent variables...\". Now he fully embraces the matrix notion and declares \"A \"function can only appear in a matrix through its values\"\" (but demurs in a footnote: \"It takes the place (not quite adequately) of the axiom of reducibility\"). Furthermore, he introduces a new (abbreviated, generalized) notion of \"matrix\", that of a \"logical matrix . . . one that contains no constants. Thus \"p\"|\"q\" is a logical matrix\". Thus Russell has virtually abandoned the axiom of reducibility, but in his last paragraphs he states that from \"our present primitive propositions\" he cannot derive \"Dedekindian relations and well-ordered relations\" and observes that if there is a new axiom to replace the axiom of reducibility \"it remains to be discovered\".\n\nIn the 1920s, Leon Chwistek and Frank P. Ramsey noticed that, if one is willing to give up the vicious circle principle,\nthe hierarchy of levels of types in the \"ramified theory of types\" can be collapsed.\n\nThe resulting restricted logic is called the theory of simple types or, perhaps more commonly, simple type theory. Detailed formulations of simple type theory were published in the late 1920s and early 1930s\nby R. Carnap, F. Ramsey, W.V.O. Quine, and A. Tarski. In 1940 Alonzo Church (re)formulated it as simply typed lambda calculus. and examined by Gödel in 1944. A survey of these developments is found in Collins (2012).\n\nKurt Gödel in his 1944 \"Russell's mathematical logic\" gave the following definition of the \"theory of simple types\" in a footnote:\n\nHe concluded the (1) theory of simple types and (2) axiomatic set theory, \"permit the derivation of modern mathematics and at the same time avoid all known paradoxes\" (Gödel 1944:126); furthermore, the theory of simple types \"is the system of the first \"Principia\" [\"Principia Mathematica\"] in an appropriate interpretation. . . . [M]any symptoms show only too clearly, however, that the primitive concepts need further elucidation\" (Gödel 1944:126).\n\nThe Curry–Howard correspondence is the interpretation of proofs-as-programs and formulae-as-types. The idea starting in 1934 with Haskell Curry and finalized in 1969 with William Alvin Howard. It connected the \"computational component\" of many type theories to the derivations in logics.\n\nHoward showed that the typed lambda calculus corresponded to intuitionistic natural deduction. (That is, natural deduction without the Law of excluded middle.) The connection between types and logic lead to a lot of subsequent research to find new type theories for existing logics and new logics for existing type theories.\n\nNicolaas Govert de Bruijn created the type theory Automath as a mathematical foundation for the Automath system, which could verify the correctness of proofs. The system developed and added features over time as type theory developed.\n\nPer Martin-Löf found a type theory that corresponded to predicate logic by introducing dependent types, which became known as intuitionistic type theory or Martin-Löf type theory.\n\nMartin-Löf's theory uses inductive types to represent unbounded data structures, such as natural numbers.\n\nThe lambda cube was not a new type theory but a categorization of existing type theories. The eight corners of the cube included some existing theories with simply typed lambda calculus at the lowest corner and the calculus of constructions at the highest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "592243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592243", "title": "Jacques Maritain", "text": "Jacques Maritain\n\nJacques Maritain (; 18 November 1882 – 28 April 1973) was a French Catholic philosopher. Raised Protestant, he was agnostic before converting to Catholicism in 1906. An author of more than 60 books, he helped to revive Thomas Aquinas for modern times, and was influential in the development and drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Pope Paul VI presented his \"Message to Men of Thought and of Science\" at the close of Vatican II to Maritain, his long-time friend and mentor. The same pope had seriously considered making him a lay Cardinal, but Maritain rejected it. Maritain's interest and works spanned many aspects of philosophy, including aesthetics, political theory, philosophy of science, metaphysics, the nature of education, liturgy and ecclesiology.\n\nMaritain was born in Paris, the son of Paul Maritain, who was a lawyer, and his wife Geneviève Favre, the daughter of Jules Favre, and was reared in a liberal Protestant milieu. He was sent to the Lycée Henri-IV. Later, he attended the Sorbonne, studying the natural sciences: chemistry, biology and physics.\n\nAt the Sorbonne, he met Raïssa Oumançoff, a Russian Jewish émigré. They married in 1904. A noted poet and mystic, she participated as his intellectual partner in his search for truth. Raissa's sister, Vera Oumançoff, lived with Jacques and Raissa for almost all their married life.\n\nAt the Sorbonne, Jacques and Raïssa soon became disenchanted with scientism, which could not, in their view, address the larger existential issues of life. In 1901, in light of this disillusionment, they made a pact to commit suicide together if they could not discover some deeper meaning to life within a year. They were spared from following through on this because, at the urging of Charles Péguy, they attended the lectures of Henri Bergson at the Collège de France. Bergson's critique of scientism dissolved their intellectual despair and instilled in them \"the sense of the absolute.\" Then, through the influence of Léon Bloy, they converted to the Roman Catholic faith in 1906.\n\nIn the fall of 1907 the Maritains moved to Heidelberg, where Jacques studied biology under Hans Driesch. Hans Driesch’s theory of neo-vitalism attracted Jacques because of its affinity with Henri Bergson. During this time, Raïssa fell ill, and during her convalescence, their spiritual advisor, a Dominican friar named Fr. Humbert Clérissac, introduced her to the writings of Thomas Aquinas. She read them with enthusiasm and, in turn, exhorted her husband to examine the saint’s writings. In Thomas, Maritain found a number of insights and ideas that he had believed all along. He wrote:\n\"Thenceforth, in affirming to myself, without chicanery or diminution, the authentic value of the reality of our human instruments of knowledge, I was already a Thomist without knowing it...When several months later I came to the \"Summa Theologiae\", I would construct no impediment to its luminous flood.\"\n\nFrom the Angelic Doctor (the honorary title of Aquinas), he was led to \"The Philosopher\", as Aquinas called Aristotle. Still later, to further his intellectual development, he read the Neo-Thomists.\n\nBeginning in 1912, Maritain taught at the Collège Stanislas. He later moved to the Institut Catholique de Paris. For the 1916–1917 academic year, he taught at the Petit Séminaire de Versailles. In 1930 Maritain and Étienne Gilson received honorary doctorates in philosophy from the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\". In 1933, he gave his first lectures in North America in Toronto at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies. He also taught at Columbia University; at the Committee on Social Thought, University of Chicago; at the University of Notre Dame, and at Princeton University.\n\nFrom 1945 to 1948, he was the French ambassador to the Holy See.\n\nAfterwards, he returned to Princeton University where he achieved the \"Elysian status\" (as he put it) of a professor emeritus in 1956. Raissa Maritain died in 1960. After her death, Jacques published her journal under the title \"Raissa's Journal.\" For several years Maritain was an honorary chairman of the Congress for Cultural Freedom, appearing as a keynote speaker at its 1960 conference in Berlin.\nFrom 1961, Maritain lived with the Little Brothers of Jesus in Toulouse, France. He had an influence on the order since its foundation in 1933. He became a Little Brother in 1970.\n\nJacques and Raïssa Maritain are buried in the cemetery of Kolbsheim, a little French village in Alsace where he had spent many summers at the estate of his friends, Antoinette and Alexander Grunelius.\n\nA cause for beatification of him and his wife Raissa is being planned.\n\nThe foundation of Maritain's thought is Aristotle, Aquinas, and the Thomistic commentators, especially John of St. Thomas. He is eclectic in his use of these sources. Maritain's philosophy is based on evidence accrued by the senses and acquired by an understanding of first principles. Maritain defended philosophy as a science against those who would degrade it and promoted philosophy as the \"queen of sciences\".\n\nIn 1910, Jacques Maritain completed his first contribution to modern philosophy, a 28-page article titled, \"Reason and Modern Science\" published in \"Revue de Philosophie\" (June issue). In it, he warned that science was becoming a divinity, its methodology usurping the role of reason and philosophy. Science was supplanting the humanities in importance.\n\nIn 1917, a committee of French bishops commissioned Jacques to write a series of textbooks to be used in Catholic colleges and seminaries. He wrote and completed only one of these projects, titled \"Elements de Philosophie\" (Introduction of Philosophy) in 1920. It has been a standard text ever since in many Catholic seminaries. He wrote in his introduction:\nIf the philosophy of Aristotle, as revived and enriched by Thomas Aquinas and his school, may rightly be called the Christian philosophy, both because the church is never weary of putting it forward as the only true philosophy and because it harmonizes perfectly with the truths of faith, nevertheless it is proposed here for the reader's acceptance not because it is Christian, but because it is demonstrably true. This agreement between a philosophic system founded by a pagan and the dogmas of revelation is no doubt an external sign, an extra-philosophic guarantee of its truth; but from its own rational evidence, that it derives its authority as a philosophy\n\nDuring the Second World War, Jacques Maritain protested the policies of the Vichy government while teaching at the Pontifical Institute for Medieval Studies in Canada. \"Moving to New York, Maritain became deeply involved in rescue activities, seeking to bring persecuted and threatened academics, many of them Jews, to America. He was instrumental in founding the École Libre des Hautes Études, a kind of university in exile that was, at the same time, the center of Gaullist resistance in the United States\". After the war, in a papal audience on 16 July 1946, he tried unsuccessfully to have Pope Pius XII officially denounce anti-semitism.\n\nMany of his American papers are held by the University of Notre Dame, which established The Jacques Maritain Center in 1957. The Cercle d'Etudes Jacques & Raïssa Maritain is an association founded by the philosopher himself in 1962 in Kolbsheim (near Strasbourg, France), where the couple is also buried. The purpose of these centers is to encourage study and research of Maritain’s thought and expand upon them. It is also absorbed in translating and editing his writings.\n\nMaritain's philosophy is based on the view that metaphysics is prior to epistemology. Being is first apprehended implicitly in sense experience, and is known in two ways. First, being is known reflexively by abstraction from sense experience. One experiences a particular being, e.g. a cup, a dog, etc. and through reflexion (\"bending back\") on the judgement, e.g. \"this is a dog\", one recognizes that the object in question is an existent. Second, in light of attaining being reflexively through apprehension of sense experience one may arrive at what Maritain calls \"an Intuition of Being\". For Maritain this is the point of departure for metaphysics; without the intuition of being one cannot be a metaphysician at all. The intuition of being involves rising to the apprehension of \"ens secundum quod est ens\" (being insofar as it is a being). In \"Existence and the Existent\" he explains:\n\n\"It is being, attained or perceived at the summit of an abstractive intellection, of an eidetic or intensive visualization which owes its purity and power of illumination only to the fact that the intellect, one day, was stirred to its depths and trans-illuminated by the impact of the act of existing apprehended in things, and because it was quickened to the point of receiving this act, or hearkening to it, within itself, in the intelligible and super-intelligible integrity of the tone particular to it.\" (p. 20)\n\nIn view of this priority given to metaphysics, Maritain advocates an epistemology he calls \"Critical Realism\". Maritain's epistemology is not \"critical\" in Kant's sense, which held that one could only know anything after undertaking a thorough critique of one's cognitive abilities. Rather, it is critical in the sense that it is not a naive or non-philosophical realism, but one that is defended by way of reason. Against Kant's critical project Maritain argues that epistemology is reflexive; you can only defend a theory of knowledge in light of knowledge you have already attained. Consequently, the critical question is not the question of modern philosophyhow do we pass from what is perceived to what is. Rather, \"Since the mind, from the very start, reveals itself as warranted in its certitude by things and measured by an esse independent of itself, how are we to judge if, how, on what conditions, and to what extent it is so both in principle and in the various moments of knowledge?\"\n\nIn contrast idealism inevitably ends up in contradiction, since it does not recognize the universal scope of the first principles of identity, contradiction, and finality. These become merely laws of thought or language, but not of being, which opens the way to contradictions being instantiated in reality.\n\nMaritain's metaphysics ascends from this account of being to a critique of the philosophical aspects of modern science, through analogy to an account of the existence and nature of God as it is known philosophically and through mystical experience.\n\nMaritain was a strong defender of a natural law ethics. He viewed ethical norms as being rooted in human nature. For Maritain the natural law is known primarily, not through philosophical argument and demonstration, but rather through \"Connaturality\". Connatural knowledge is a kind of knowledge by acquaintance. We know the natural law through our direct acquaintance with it in our human experience. Of central importance, is Maritain's argument that natural rights are rooted in the natural law. This was key to his involvement in the drafting of the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nAnother important aspect of his ethics was his insistence upon the need for moral philosophy to be conducted in a theological context. While a Christian could engage in speculative thought about nature or metaphysics in a purely rational manner and develop an adequate philosophy of nature of metaphysics, this is not possible with ethics. Moral philosophy must address the actual state of the human person, and this is a person in a state of grace. Thus, \"moral philosophy adequately considered\" must take into account properly theological truths. It would be impossible, for instance, to develop an adequate moral philosophy without giving consideration to properly theological facts such as original sin and the supernatural end of the human person in beatitude. Any moral philosophy that does not take into account these realities that are only known through faith would be fundamentally incomplete.\n\nMaritain advocated what he called \"Integral Humanism.\" He argued that secular forms of humanism were inevitably anti-human in that they refused to recognize the whole person. Once the spiritual dimension of human nature is rejected, we no longer have an integral, but merely partial humanism, one which rejects a fundamental aspect of the human person. Accordingly, in \"Integral Humanism\" he explores the prospects for a new Christendom, rooted in his philosophical pluralism, in order to find ways Christianity could inform political discourse and policy in a pluralistic age. In this account he develops a theory of cooperation, to show how people of different intellectual positions can nevertheless cooperate to achieve common practical aims. Maritain's political theory was extremely influential, and was a primary source behind the Christian Democratic movement.\n\nMaritain also corresponded with, and was a friend of the American radical community organizer Saul Alinsky and French Prime Minister Robert Schuman.\n\nMajor criticisms of Maritain have included: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33839042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33839042", "title": "Kiyokazu Washida", "text": "Kiyokazu Washida\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11304750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11304750", "title": "Lingkhor", "text": "Lingkhor\n\nThe Lingkhor () is a sacred path, the most common name of the outer pilgrim circumambulation path in Lhasa, matching its inner twin, the Barkhor. In its heyday, the Lingkhor was about long, enclosing Old Lhasa, the Potala and Chokpori Hill. In former times, it was crowded with men and women circumambulating clock-wise, sometimes by means of full-body prostrations. Pilgrims often approached the holy city for the first time by this route which passed through willow-shaded parks where Tibetans used to picnic in summer and watch open-air operas on festival days. \n\nBeginning in the 1980s, Lhasa's urban sprawl and reconstruction have obliterated much of the Lingkhor, but one relatively pristine stretch still remains west of Chokpori Hill; here, a bridge about 1 km west of the Potala Palace on the main road with green buildings beyond is the landmark. The Lingkhor stretches left before the bridge between walls and willow trees. After making a turn to the right, it peters out at a duck pond. Open-air Tibetan operas are still performed within earshot of the pond on festival days, one of which falls in June each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "19145766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19145766", "title": "List of social theorists", "text": "List of social theorists\n\nA list of social theorists includes classical as well as modern thinkers in social theory that were notable for the impact of their published works on the general discipline of sociology.\n\n"}
{"id": "612126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612126", "title": "List of works in critical theory", "text": "List of works in critical theory\n\nThis is a list of important and seminal works in the field of critical theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44510677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44510677", "title": "Loyola House", "text": "Loyola House\n\nLoyola House or its full name Loyola House Retreat and Training Centre is a Jesuit spirituality centre in Guelph, Ontario. It moved to Guelph in 1964 and was the centre of a renewal in Ignatian spirituality in the 1970s. It is within the grounds of the Ignatius Jesuit Centre situated on Woolwich Street to the west of Riverside Park. In the 1960s and 1970s it was the centre of a significant shift in Ignatian spirituality.\n\nOriginally, the centre was situated in Oakville. In 1962, the decision was made by the Society of Jesus to sell the site and move the centre to Guelph. The old site in Oakville became the Glen Abbey Golf Course. From 1962 construction began on the spirituality centre in Guelph, helped by financial assistance from Bishop Joseph Ryan of Hamilton. In 1964, it was opened and was called the Guelph Centre of Spirituality. At first, it only hosted weekend retreats for parishioners from churches within the Diocese of Hamilton.\n\nFrom the late 1960s to the 1970s it became the centre of a change in how retreats in Ignatian spirituality were conducted and changed its name to Loyola House. Two Jesuit priests, John English, S.J. and John Veltri, S.J. altered the experience for those on retreat. They came from St Beuno's College in Wales with new ideas about Ignatian spirituality. Before this time, retreats were preached; at certain times in the day, those on retreat would all be told what to pray. Veltri and English changed this by providing points for prayer through daily interviews with the retreatants, giving personal one-to-one spiritual direction. Veltri was at Loyola House from 1967, and English was the novice master at the St. Stanislaus Novitiate next door in 1965, moving over to Loyola House in 1978.\n\nIt continues to offers retreats in Ignatian spirituality within a 240-acre setting close to the Guelph Lake Conservation Area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27735458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27735458", "title": "Lyman Hotchkiss Atwater", "text": "Lyman Hotchkiss Atwater\n\nLyman Hotchkiss Atwater (February 23, 1813 – February 17, 1883) was an American Presbyterian philosopher.\n\nHe was born in Cedar Hill, New Haven, Connecticut. He started going to Yale University at the age of 14 in 1827 and graduated in 1831. He spent some time after graduating as the head of the classical Department of Mount Hope Institute in Baltimore and then entered Yale Divinity School He was then licensed to preach by the Congregational Association of New Haven in May 1834. Then heading on to the First Congregational Church of Fairfield Connecticut. He remained there for 20 years.\n\nHe moved on to Princeton in 1854 and started to lecture on religion and metaphysics. And contributed to The Princeton Review. In 1861 he was appointed to the Lectureship Extraordinary in the Theological Seminary at Princeton University. In 1869 he became a professor of logic metaphysics ethics, ethics, economics, and politics and remained with the University. 1871 Yale presented him with the degree of LL.D. From 1876 till his death he was the Vice-President of the board of trustees of Princeton Theological Seminary He died in Princeton.\n\nHe worked with the Presbyterian Church his whole life and wrote and published articles and one book.\n\nHis father was “Major” Lyman Atwater (died March 1862, at Bennington, Vermont). His brothers and sisters were Charles Henry, born September 29, 1808, Grace Clarissa, born April 4, 1814, Susan, born July 14, 1817 and Wyllys, born December 9. 1821. His sister Grace married Elias B. Bishop and bought the family property when the Major moved to Vermont. Lyman being the oldest son would receive the property if had not relocated down to New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "4823199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4823199", "title": "Metatheory", "text": "Metatheory\n\nA metatheory or meta-theory is a theory whose subject matter is some theory. All fields of research share some meta-theory, regardless whether this is explicit or correct. In a more restricted and specific sense, in mathematics and mathematical logic, \"metatheory\" means a \"mathematical theory about another mathematical theory\".\n\nThe following is an example of a meta-theoretical statement:\nMeta-theoretical investigations are generally part of the philosophy of science. Also a metatheory is an object of concern to the area in which the individual theory is conceived.\n\nExamining groups of related theories, a first finding may be to identify classes of theories, thus specifying a taxonomy of theories.\n\nThe concept burst upon the scene of 20th-century philosophy as a result of the work of the German mathematician David Hilbert, who in 1905 published a proposal for proof of the consistency and completeness of mathematics, creating the field of metamathematics. His hopes for the success of this proof were dashed by the work of Kurt Gödel, who in 1931, used his incompleteness theorems to prove this goal of consistency and completeness to be unattainable. Nevertheless, his program of unsolved mathematical problems, out of which grew this metamathematical proposal, continued to influence the direction of mathematics for the rest of the 20th century.\n\nThe study of metatheory became widespread during the rest of that century by its application in other fields, notably scientific linguistics and its concept of metalanguage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29445606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29445606", "title": "Michael C. Rea", "text": "Michael C. Rea\n\nMichael C. Rea is an analytic philosopher and, since 2017, John A. O'Brien Professor of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame. He specializes in metaphysics and philosophy of religion and has competence in epistemology and applied ethics as well. He is currently writing a book on divine hiddenness, in which he appeals to quantifier pluralism and argues that God cannot be quantified over by humans (although God can quantify over Himself). Also, he is scheduled to give the 2017 Gifford Lectures, where he will also talk about divine hiddenness.\n\nMichael Rea argues that naturalists are not justified in accepting either realism about material objects, or realism about other minds, or materialism. This constitutes a pragmatic case against being a naturalist. These problems can be avoided by the adoption of a supernaturalist research program that \"legitimates belief in \"some\" sort of supernatural being\".\n\nAccording to Rea, naturalism is primarily a research program. By a research program he means a particular set of dispositions to \"trust certain ways of acquiring information with respect to various topics and to distrust others\". The core of naturalism is, therefore, something attitudinal. He argues that research programs \"cannot be adopted on the basis of evidence\". This claim suggests that the naturalist commitment to science is just a secular faith, no better epistemically than standard religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44542365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44542365", "title": "Prayatna", "text": "Prayatna\n\nPrayatna means – effort or activity; it expresses a sense of human determination and initiative but is required to be supplemented by confidence in one’s own abilities and steadfastness of purpose which two factors combine to make it a driving force. \"Prayatna\" does not merely mean 'effort' but 'effort at a point of articulation'.\n\nPrayatna (Sanskrit: प्रयत्नः) means – 'effort', 'exertion', 'endeavour', 'perseverance', 'activity' or 'action in general'. Pāṇini explains that \"prayatna\" does not merely mean effort but effort at a point of articulation; it expresses a sense of human determination and initiative and needs to be supplemented by confidence in one’s own abilities and steadfastness of purpose which makes \"prayatna\" a driving force.\n\n\"Prayatna\" implies energy (\"vīrya\") and enthusiasm(\"utsaha\") directed towards strenuous efforts (\"anusthāna\") for attaining the state of equipoise (\"sthiti\") in undisturbed calm (\"praśānta-vāhitā\") under the influence of sattva-guna. It is a part of energetic and enthusiastic pursuit abhyāsa, and an act (\"kriti\") prompted by the desire or will (\"icchā\") that involves physical exertion (\"cheśțā\") Actions are of two kinds – i) vital actions prompted by life (\"jīvana-pūrvaka\"), and ii) voluntary actions initiated by desire and aversion (\"icchā-dveśa-pūrvaka\"). Vital actions are non-voluntary produced by the conjunction of the self with the internal organ which depends on the self, and all voluntary actions are produced by desire and aversion that produce merits and demerits. Empirical pleasure arises from the fulfilment of these actions but transcendental bliss arises from their extermination. \"Prayatna\" ('volition') finds its fullest expression within intentional action.\n\nAccording to the Vaisesika school of Mimamsa thought, \"karma\" is movement or action in which there is no effect to differentiate an intentional action from an unintentional one; \"karma\" excludes all kinds of mental acts, and \"prayatna\" in itself is not a \"karma\" but a quality of the self that shares a common violational trait with \"sankalpa\" ('chosen resolution'). \"Prayatna\" ('effort') is one of the five \"avasthās\" ('stages of action') viz., the second stage, the other four being \"ārambha\" ('the beginning'), \"prāptayāśā\" ('prospect of success'), \"niyatāpti\" ('certainty of success') and \"phalagāma\" or \"phalayoga\" ('attainment of result'). \"Karya\" ('action') consists of one of the three objects of human existence. \"Prayatna\" ('effort') is exertion attended with great haste, when result has not been obtained. Uneven progress indicates uneven stages.\n\n\"Pāṇīniya-śikśā\" states that in Indian phonetics, sounds are distinguished from each other on the basis of \"swaras\" ('accents'), \"kāla\" ('time or duration'), \"sthāna\" ('point of articulation'), \"prayatna\" ('manner') and 'anupradāna' ('type of phonation'), where \"prayatna\", here meaning 'manner', refers to how the physical organ called \"kāraṇa\" ('articulator') relates to the point of articulation, \"sparśa\" ('contact'), 'upasamhara' ('approximation'), \"vivarta\" ('open') etc. Sukta I.i.9 reads – \nmeaning – \"those whose place of utterance and effort are equal are called \"savarṇa\" or homogenous letters\" i.e. when the \"sthāna\" ('place of utterance') and \"prayatna\" ('effort') are the same; the inner effort is called \"abhyantara\" (which are of four kinds), and external called \"bhaya\".\n\nAccording to the Nyaya School there are three groups of \"prayatna\" – \"pravrtti\", \"nivrtti\" and \"jivanaprayatna\", the former two are \"citta vrttis\", the third being efforts made by individuals to maintain life; in Yoga philosophy, \"prayatna\" means - the effort of breathing which in the practice of \"āsanas\" must be smooth and regular, and \"prayatna śaithilya\" means the exact and even weighing of effort and effortlessness; \"śaithilya\" means laxity, and this state is experienced when the pinnacle of intelligence holds the body on its own, unaided and effortlessly.\n\n\"Kriya\" ('action') is the nature of \"prayatna\" or personal effort, and there can be no effort without a body; \"prayatna\" is a quality which emerges in the embodied self and is associated with \"manas\" ('mind'). Caraka Sutras list the \"guṇas\" beginning with \"para\" ('universality') and ending with \"prayatna\" ('effort') together with \"sartha\" ('sense-qualities') in which list \"buddhi\" does not figure but is separately enumerated. \"Prayatna\" is conscious activity, which in-coordination with desire, antipathy, pleasure, pain and knowledge indicates the existence of the self.\n"}
{"id": "25310910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25310910", "title": "Purposive behaviorism", "text": "Purposive behaviorism\n\nPurposive behaviorism is a branch of psychology that was introduced by Edward Tolman. It combines the objective study of behavior while also considering the purpose or goal of behavior. Tolman thought that learning developed from knowledge about the environment and how the organism relates to its environment. Tolman’s goal was to identify the complex cognitive mechanisms and purposes that guided behavior. His theories on learning went against the traditionally accepted stimulus-response connections (see classical conditioning) at this time that were proposed by other psychologists such as Edward Thorndike. Tolman disagreed with Watson’s behaviorism, so he initiated his own behaviorism, which became known as purposive behaviorism.\n\nTolman's purposive behaviorism focused on meaningful behavior, or molar behavior, such as kicking a ball. This focus was in contrast to simple muscle movements aka molecular behavior such as flexing of the leg muscle. Tolman regarded the molecular behavior as fairly removed from human perceptual capacities for a meaningful analysis of behavior. This approach of Tolman’s was first introduced in his book, \"Purposive Behavior in Animals and Men\", published in 1932. To Tolman, it was obvious that all actions of behavior are goal-oriented, including those for animals. The main difference between behaviorism and Tolman's purposive behaviorism is that behavior is goal oriented.\n\nTolman’s investigation used rats to represent clinical behaviors of men. He had the rats go through mazes. A hungry rat was put at the entrance of a maze, wandering through it until he gets to the food. In the maze, there are true segment paths and blind alleys. Trials for every rat reoccurred every 24 hours. The more trials the rats completed, the fewer errors, which he characterized by the rat avoiding the blind alleys. They made as well as taking less time to complete the maze and get to their goal which was their food.\n\nA maze was used by Tolman in the following experiment: at point A, a hungry rat was placed as the starting point; point B was where the food for the rat was placed. The rat learned to get to B for food throughout the trials.\n\nIn these experiments, Tolman was looking at how the reinforcement in the trials contributed to the rat learning their way through the maze and to the food with fewer errors. Tolman’s evaluation of these experiments led to his theory of latent learning.\n\nTolman wondered what the rat had learned when he quickly discovered how to go through the maze to get to the food. Tolman believed that the rat had developed a cognitive map of his maze, with knowledge of where the food was located. With this research, he believed this experiment supported his notion that this learning was not rooted in stimulus-response connections but in the nervous system of sets which are to function like cognitive maps. Also, Tolman assumed that these cognitive maps vary from a narrow strip of variety to a broader, comprehensive variety. Tolman showed in his study that the rats exhibited a capability of latent learning. The results showed that the rats used problem solving because of the absence of reinforcement, which could not have been resolved by S-R representations.\n\nTolman’s followers, also referred to as Tolmaniacs, developed a test to further support Tolman’s findings and again refute the stimulus-response explanation of the experiment. Once a rat had learned to run from A to B, the starting point was changed from point A to point C. According to the stimulus-response theory, the rat has learned to simply move to the right in the A to B trials, so it the new starting point was C, the rat would go to D. In contrast, Tolman’s cognitive map explanation predicted the rat would return to point B even if starting at the new point, C. The new tests supported Tolman’s findings of a cognitive map, for the rat continued to reach point B.\n\nFrom 1920 to 1928, Tolman published numerous articles in the Psychological Review that attempted to objectively define such concepts as instinct, consciousness, emotions, purpose, and cognition. Tolman coined the term \"purposive behaviorism\" when he published \"Purposive Behavior in Animals and Men\" (1932), which summarized these theoretical concepts and supported them with data he obtained from numerous studies. In this publication, Tolman demonstrated that insight, or our cognitive control of learning, was not restricted by evolutionary capabilities.\n\nLike many other behaviorists in his time, he carried out these studies with rats, believing that \"everything important in psychology can be investigated in essence through the continued experimental and theoretical analysis of the determiners of rat behavior at a choice point in a maze.\" In this book, he described purposive behavior as behavior directed toward some ultimate goal. Examples he gave of this kind of behavior were \"a rat running a maze, a man driving home to dinner, a child hiding from a stranger, a woman gossiping over the telephone, etc.\" Tolman's purposive behaviorism was not as widely received in its day as other psychological theories. This was largely due to the fact that many did not consider its foundation to being in line with behaviorism at all, which was the dominating force in psychology at the time. However, the insistence on studying implicit mental concepts as opposed to looking solely at explicit behavior was an idea that opened the door to the school of cognitive psychology. While much work in purposive behaviorism was dismissed by the mainstream of psychologists in its time, many of Tolman's publications, most notably \"Purposive Behavior in Animals and Men\" and \"Cognitive Maps in Rats and Men\", continue to be cited in today's research.\n"}
{"id": "28584043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28584043", "title": "Renata Salecl", "text": "Renata Salecl\n\nRenata Salecl (born 1962) is a Slovene philosopher, sociologist and legal theorist. She is a senior researcher at the Institute of Criminology, Faculty of Law at the University of Ljubljana, and holds a professorship at Birkbeck College, University of London. She has been a visiting professor at London School of Economics, lecturing on the topic of emotions and law. Every year she lectures at Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law (New York), on Psychoanalysis and Law, and she has also been teaching courses on neuroscience and law. Since 2012 she has been visiting professor at the Department of Social Science, Heath and Medicine at King's College London. Her books have been translated into fifteen languages. In 2017, she was elected as a member of the Slovene Academy of Science.\n\nIn the 1980s Salecl became associated with the intellectual circle known as the Ljubljana school of psychoanalysis, which combined the study of Lacanian psychoanalysis with the philosophic legacy of German idealism and critical theory. In the late 1980s she became active in the left liberal opposition to the ruling Slovenian Communist regime. In the first democratic elections in Slovenia in April 1990 she unsuccessfully ran for the Slovenian Parliament on the list of the Alliance of Socialist Youth of Slovenia - Liberal Party. After 1990 she left party politics but remained active in public life, especially as a commentator.\n\nShe was married to the Slovenian Marxist–Lacanian philosopher Slavoj Žižek.\nThey have one son.\n\nShe studied philosophy at the University of Ljubljana, graduating with a thesis on Michel Foucault's theory of power under the supervision of the Marxist philosopher Božidar Debenjak. From 1986, she started working as a researcher at the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, In 1991, she obtained a PhD at the Department of Sociology at the University of Ljubljana under the supervision of Drago Braco Rotar. Her work focuses on bringing together law, criminology and psychoanalysis. She has worked on the theories of punishment, and on the analysis of the relation between late capitalist insistence on choice and the increased feelings of anxiety and guilt in post-modern subjects. The book also analyses how matters of choice apply to law and criminology.\n\nSalecl is associated with the critical legal studies movement. She was Centennial Professor at the department of law at the London School of Economics (LSE) and is now visiting professor at the LSE's BIOS Centre for the Study of Bioscience, Biomedicine, Biotechnology and Society, and holds a full professorship at the School of Law at Birkbeck College, University of London. She often teaches as Visiting Professor at Cardozo School of Law in New York. She has been fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study, Berlin (1997/8), visiting professor at the Humboldt University in Berlin, visiting humanities professor at George Washington University in Washington, DC, and visiting professor at Duke University.\n\nShe also writes columns in various European newspapers, including \"Delo\" (Ljubljana) and \"La Vanguardia\" (Barcelona).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2089809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2089809", "title": "Royal Society of New South Wales", "text": "Royal Society of New South Wales\n\nThe Royal Society of New South Wales is a learned society based in Sydney, Australia. It is the oldest such society in Australia and in the Southern Hemisphere. The Governor of New South Wales is the vice-regal patron of the Society.\n\nThe Society was established as the Philosophical Society of Australasia on 27 June 1821. In 1850, after a period of informal activity, the Society was revived and its name became the Australian Philosophical Society and, in 1856, the Philosophical Society of New South Wales. The Society was granted Royal Assent on 12 December 1866 and at that time was renamed the Royal Society of New South Wales.\n\nMembership is open to any person interested in the promotion of studies in Science, Art, Literature and Philosophy. The Society is based in Sydney and has an active branches in Mittagong in the Southern Highlands of NSW. Regular monthly meetings and public lectures are well attended by both members and visitors.\n\nThe Society publishes a peer-reviewed journal, the \"Journal and Proceedings of the Royal Society of New South Wales\", the second-oldest peer-reviewed publication in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nThe Royal Society of New South Wales, Australia traces its origins to the Philosophical Society of Australasia, established on 27 June 1821 and was the first scientific society in the then British Colony of New South Wales.\n\nThe Society was formed \"with a view to enquiring into the various branches of physical science of this vast continent and its adjacent regions\". On his arrival in Sydney late in 1821, the newly appointed Governor, Sir Thomas Brisbane, was offered and accepted the position of President.\n\nFollowing a period of informal activity, the Society was revitalised (led by Dr Henry Douglass, one of the original founders) and renamed the Australian Philosophical Society on 19 January 1850. The society was renamed the \"Philosophical Society of New South Wales\" in 1856. On 12 December 1866, Queen Victoria granted Royal Assent to change its name to \"The Royal Society of New South Wales\". The Society was incorporated by Act of the New South Wales Parliament in 1881.\n\nThe rules of the Society provided that the Governor of New South Wales should be President \"ex officio\". After the establishment of the Commonwealth of Australia in 1901, the Governor-General became Patron of the Society, and the Governor New South Wales the Vice-Patron. From 1938 to 2014, the Society was under the joint patronage of the Governor-General of Australia and the Governor of NSW. The Society now has a single Vice-Regal Patron, the Governor of NSW.\n\nThroughout its history, the Society has done much to foster local research particularly in science, through meetings, symposia, publications and international scientific exchange, and has supported and fostered the endeavours of other organisations dedicated to the furtherance of knowledge.\n\nThe Society encourages \"... \"studies and investigations in Science, Art, Literature and Philosophy, to promote and further the development of Science and its relationship with Art, Literature and Philosophy and their allied disciplines and applications, to facilitate the exchange of information and ideas amongst the Members and Fellows of the Society and others on these and kindred topics and to disseminate knowledge to the people of New South Wales and beyond \"...\" through the following activities:\n\nThe Society's journal, the \"Journal and Proceedings of the Royal Society of New South Wales\" is one of the oldest peer-reviewed publications in the Southern Hemisphere. Much innovative research of the 19th and early 20th centuries (e.g. Lawrence Hargrave's work on flight) was first brought to the attention of the scientific world through the \"Journal and Proceedings of the Royal Society of New South Wales\". In the last few decades specialist journals have become preferred for highly technical work but the Journal and Proceedings remains an important publication for multidisciplinary and transdisciplinary work.\n\nThe Journal and Proceedings are exchanged with hundreds of institutions worldwide. Issues are published June and December each year.\n\nThe Society welcomes scholarly work to be considered for publication in the Journal. Preference is given to work done in Australia which has relevance to New South Wales. Intending authors must read the style guide, available via the Society’s web site (Journal), before submitting their manuscript for review.\n\nThe Society recognises outstanding contributions to science, art, literature or philosophy with the position of Distinguished Fellow. Distinguished Fellows of the Society are entitled to use the postnominal \"Dist FRSN\". There can be up to 25 Distinguished Fellows at any one time.\n\n\nThe society makes a number of awards for meritorious contributions in the field of science.\n\nThe Clarke Medal is awarded by the Society for distinguished work in the Natural sciences. It was named in honour of the Reverend William Branwhite Clarke, one of the founders of the Society. The medal was to be \"awarded for meritorious contributions to Geology, Mineralogy and Natural History of Australasia, to be open to men of science, whether resident in Australasia or elsewhere\". The Medal is now awarded annually for distinguished work in the natural sciences (geology, botany and zoology) done in the Australian Commonwealth and its territories. Each discipline is considered every three years. For a complete list of medalists see Clarke Medal.\n\nThe Edgeworth David Medal, established in 1942, is awarded for distinguished contributions by a young scientists under the age of thirty-five years for work done mainly in Australia or its territories or contributing to Australian science. It is named after the geologist, Sir Edgeworth David, FRS, who wrote the first comprehensive record of the geology of Australia.\n\nThe James Cook Medal, established in 1947, is awarded periodically for outstanding contributions to science and human welfare in and for the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nFrom 1850 to 1880, the President of the Society was the Governor of New South Wales. In 1881, when the Society was incorporated by an Act of the New South Wales Parliament, the Act provided that Presidents of the Society be elected by the members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1861485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1861485", "title": "Shaman's Drum Journal", "text": "Shaman's Drum Journal\n\nShaman's Drum Journal was a periodical devoted to experiential shamanism. It was published between 1985 and 2010, when it ceased publication. It was originally edited by Timothy White and published by the Cross-Cultural Shamanism Network (a nonprofit educational organization).\n\nThe mission of the magazine was to encourage and support the practice of shamanism from an experiential perspective of shamans and other practitioners. In order to consolidate contemporary and ancient shamanic methodologies, \"Shaman's Drum\" regularly examined traditional, non-traditional and contemporary forms of shamanism and methodology: ranging from Siberian ecstatic seances and Tibetan trance oracles to Amazonian ayahuasca rituals and Native American healing ceremonies. The journal took the view that shamanism is a universal human phenomenon, or complex of phenomena, that ultimately transcends culture or tradition.\n\nIn 2011 its website announced that there were plans to continue via the Shaman's Drum Foundation, an on-line publication with associated electronic archives, but as of June 2012 there have been no public developments regarding this.\n\n"}
{"id": "5405121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5405121", "title": "Shibui", "text": "Shibui\n\nShibui (渋い) (adjective), shibumi (渋み) (noun), or shibusa (渋さ) (noun) are Japanese words which refer to a particular aesthetic of simple, subtle, and unobtrusive beauty. Like other Japanese aesthetics terms, such as \"iki\" and \"wabi-sabi\", \"shibui\" can apply to a wide variety of subjects, not just art or fashion.\n\nShibusa is an enriched, subdued appearance or experience of intrinsically fine quality with economy of form, line, and effort, producing a timeless tranquility. Shibusa includes the following essential qualities: \n\nThe colors of shibusa are \"muddy\" colors. For example, in interior decorating and painting, gray is added to primary colors to create a silvery effect that ties the different colors together into a coordinated scheme. Depending upon how much gray is added, shibui colors range from pastels to dark. Occasionally, a patch of brighter color is added as a highlight.\n\nShibusa is not to be confused with wabi or sabi. Though many wabi or sabi objects are shibui, not all shibui objects are wabi or sabi. Wabi or sabi objects can be more severe and sometimes exaggerate intentional imperfections to such an extent that they can appear to be artificial. Shibui objects are not necessarily imperfect or asymmetrical, though they can include these qualities. \n\nThe seven elements of shibusa are simplicity, implicity, modesty, naturalness, everydayness, imperfection, and silence. They are adapted from the concepts authored by Dr. Soetsu Yanagi (1898–1961), aesthetician and museum curator, published in the Japanese magazine \"Kogei\" between 1930–1940. The aristocratic simplicity of shibusa is the refined expression of the essence of elements in an aesthetic experience producing quietude. Spare elegance is evident in darkling serenity with a hint of sparkle. Implicity allows depth of feeling to be visible through spare surface design thereby manifesting the invisible core that offers new meanings with each encounter. The person of shibui modesty exalts excellence via taking time to learn, watch, read, understand, develop, think, and merges into understatement and silence concerning oneself. Naturalness conveys spontaneity in unforced growth. Shibusa freedom is maintained in healthy roughness of texture and irregular asymmetrical form wherein the center lies beyond all particular things, in infinity. Everydayness raises ordinary things to a place of honor, void of all artificial and unnecessary properties, thus imparting spiritual joy—for today is more auspicious than tomorrow. Everydayness provides a framework, a tradition for an artist's oeuvre to be a unit not a process. Hiroshi Mizuo argues that the best examples of shibusa are found in the crafts, ordinary objects made for everyday use. They tend to be more spontaneous and healthy than many of the fine arts. Imperfection is illustrated in Nathaniel Hawthorne’s gothic novel, \"The Marble Faun\". The chapter \"An Aesthetic Company\" mentions some ragged and ill-conditioned antique drawings and their attributions and virtues.\nImperfection in shibusa Sōetsu Yanagi in \"The Unknown Craftsman\" refers to as \"beauty with inner implications\". Creation here means making a piece that will lead the viewer to draw beauty from it for oneself. Shibui beauty in Tea Ceremony is in the artistry of the viewer.\n\nShibusa's sanctuary of silence is non-dualism—the resolution of opposites. Its foundation is intuition coupled with faith and beauty revealing phases of truth and the worship and reverence for life.\n\nIn James A. Michener's book \"Iberia\" the adjective 'shibui' is referenced as follows: \"The Japanese have a word which summarizes all the best in Japanese life, yet it has no explanation and cannot be translated. It is the word \"shibui\", and the best approximation to its meaning is 'acerbic good taste.'\" The author Trevanian (the nom de plume of Dr. Rodney William Whitaker) wrote in his 1979 best-selling\nnovel \"Shibumi\", \"Shibumi has to do with great refinement underlying commonplace appearances.\" In the business fable \"The Shibumi Strategy\", the author, Matthew E. May, wrote that shibumi \"has come to denote those things that exhibit in paradox and all at once the very best of everything and nothing: Elegant simplicity. Effortless effectiveness. Understated excellence. Beautiful imperfection.\"\nShibui, a registration or 'felt sense' of evolving perfection. What is being registered is the 'Life' behind the qualities of any experience. A 'felt sense' of qualities, such as, quiet beauty with intelligence, love, light, and joy. These qualities can be more easily registered when quietly viewing simple, natural everyday phenomenon or objects, such as a sunrise or a simple piece of pottery. Shibui can sometimes be more easily registered by two people in a meditative state (quiet in their emotions and their minds) while viewing the same phenomenon or object. For example, when viewing the same sunset or piece of art, subconsciously, both people register the qualities of the 'Life' or implicity underlying the experience or object; this registration of the underlying 'Life' precipitates into the conscious as registering something 'extraordinary' in the everyday 'ordinary'. If you both register, then looking into the other person's eyes, you understand that you both shared the same phenomenon, a 'knowing' of the underlying 'Life', or at least the qualities of that underlying 'Life'. The qualities registered can seem paradoxical. Complex experiences or objects seem simple; perfection is found in imperfection. All objects and experiences, both everyday and extraordinary, can have a beauty, a quiet purposeful intent, a cool 'matter of fact' underlying joy.\n\nPotters, musicians, painters, bonsai and other artists often work to bring in 'Shibui-like' qualities into their art. A few go behind these qualities to bring the underlying 'Life' into their art. Expert singers, actors, potters, and artists of all other sorts were often said to be \"shibui\"; their expertise caused them to do things beautifully without making them excessive or gaudy. Today, sometimes baseball players are even said to be \"shibui\" when they contribute to the overall success of the team without doing anything to make themselves stand out individually. The apparent effortlessness displayed by athletes such as tennis player Roger Federer and hockey great Wayne Gretzky are examples of shibumi in personal performance. Shibui, and its underlying 'Life', is found in all art and in everything around us—including ourselves. Taking the path to understand and experience Shibui, is a step towards understanding and consciously registering the 'Life' underlying all.\n\nOriginating in the Muromachi period (1336–1573) as \"shibushi\", the term originally referred to a sour or astringent taste, such as that of an unripe persimmon. \"Shibui\" maintains that literal meaning still, and remains the antonym of amai (甘い), meaning 'sweet'.\n\nHowever, by the beginnings of the Edo period (1615–1868), the term had gradually begun to refer to a pleasing aesthetic. The people of Edo expressed their tastes in using this term to refer to anything from song to fashion to craftsmanship that was beautiful by being understated, or by being precisely what it was meant to be and not elaborated upon. Essentially, the aesthetic ideal of \"shibumi\" seeks out events, performances, people or objects that are beautiful in a direct and simple way, without being flashy.\n\nSoetsu Yanagi work as translated by Bernard Leach in \"The Unknown Craftsman\" discusses shibumi.\n\nThe concept of \"shibusa\" was introduced to the West in August and September, 1960, in publications of the American magazine \"House Beautiful\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30413471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30413471", "title": "Singapore Kindness Movement", "text": "Singapore Kindness Movement\n\nThe Singapore Kindness Movement is a non-profit organization that executes public education programs aimed at cultivating kindness and graciousness in Singaporean society. It was officially launched in 1997. The movement serves as the successor to the Singapore Courtesy Council that oversaw the National Courtesy Campaign (Singapore) from the 1980s through the 1990s.\n\nThe Singapore Kindness Movement (SKM) was initiated in response to Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong’s call to Singaporeans to develop into a more caring and gracious society in the new century.\n\nIn his 1996 New Year’s address, stated \"We have become a developed economy because we put our minds to it and strive hard to reach our goals. Let us now complement our economic achievements with social, cultural, and spiritual development. Then by the 21st century, Singapore will be a truly successful, mature country, with a developed economy and a gracious society.\"\n\nPM Goh announced the SKM pilot project in July 1996, when he launched the Singapore Courtesy Campaign.Some 2,000 students from the uniformed groups in 20 secondary schools participated in the pilot project.\n\nThe Movement was launched in January 1997, to over 80,000 secondary school students. SKM officially registered as a non-profit society on 31 January 1997. In March 2001, the National Courtesy Campaign was subsumed by the Movement.\n\nSingapore Kindness Movement held the secretariat of the World Kindness Movement. from 2003-2012.\n\nThe mission statement of the SKM is to inspire graciousness through spontaneous acts of kindness, making life more pleasant for everyone.\n\nIts main objectives are:\nTo encourage all Singaporeans to be more kind and considerate.\nTo enhance public awareness of acts of kindness.\nTo influence and raise the standards of social behaviour in our society.\n\nThe SKM organisational structure consists of two main parts: The SKM Council (SKMC) and the SKM Secretariat. The SKM Council comprises members from the private and 19 public sectors. In March 2001, the Singapore Courtesy Council integrated with the SKMC.\n\nThe Movement is supported by the Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth and funded by a government grant. SKM also secures funds through its membership subscriptions and sponsorships.\n\nThe patron of the Movement is Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and the current Chairman is Koh Poh Tiong.\n\nThe two strokes and ovals of the Singapore Kindness Movement logo depicts two people—one who does an act of kindness and the other who receives it. The freehand strokes combine to form a heart. Red symbolises love for your fellow man and green represents caring for the environment, tolerance, creativity, and consideration.\n\nSinga the Lion had been the official mascot of the Singapore Kindness Movement until May, 2013. On 15 May 2013, Singa the Lion was retired from the campaign through an open \"resignation letter\" posted on the movement's website.\n"}
{"id": "3959773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959773", "title": "Spencer Heath", "text": "Spencer Heath\n\nSpencer Heath (born 1876, Vienna, Virginia – died 1963, Leesburg, Virginia) was an American engineer, attorney, inventor, manufacturer, horticulturist, poet, philosopher of science and social thinker. A dissenter from the prevailing Georgist views, he pioneered the theory of proprietary governance and community in his book \"Citadel, Market and Altar\". His grandson, Spencer Heath MacCallum, popularized and expounded on his ideas, most notably in his book \"The Art of Community\".\n\nHeath graduated from the Corcoran Scientific School in Washington, D.C., studying electrical and mechanical engineering. While working for the Navy Department he earned law degrees at National University Law School. In 1898 he married Johanna Maria Holm, a suffragist and friend of Susan B. Anthony. They had three daughters.\n\nAs a patent lawyer and engineering consultant his clients included Simon Lake, inventor of the even-keel-submerging submarine, and Emile Berliner, inventor of the flat-disk phonograph record. Heath helped Berliner design and build the first rotary engine blades used in helicopters. Heath founded the American Propeller Manufacturing Company in 1909 and developed and first mass-produced airplane propellers, including 70 percent of the propellers used by Americans in World War I. In 1922 he demonstrated the first engine-powered and controlled, variable and reversible pitch propeller.\n\nIn 1929 he sold his patents and facilities to Bendix Aviation Corporation and retired to work on projects in horticulture and the natural and social sciences, including research with the aim of establishing the basis for an authentic natural science of society.\n\nHis articles on aeronautical engineering were published by the Journal of the American Society of Naval Engineers, the Journal of the Franklin Institute and other technical journals. International Who's Who listed him in 1947-1949 and Who's Who in the East in 1948-1951.\n\nAround 1898, attracted by the Georgists' free-trade stance, Spencer Heath became recording secretary for the Chicago Single Tax Club and participated in the movement for 40 years. He assisted in the formation of the Henry George School in New York City and conducted public seminars there on community organization in the early 1930s. School Director Frank Chodorov later fired him for straying from the Georgist line. Heath had rejected the Georgist antipathy toward landlords and had come to believe that society only could outgrow its subservience to the state through a particular use of land. In 1936, he self-published his views in a monograph entitled \"Politics versus Proprietorship.\" It was the first statement of the proprietary community principle. In 1952, \"The Freeman\" published Heath’s polemic “Progress and Poverty Reviewed”, a critique of Henry George's tax argument.\n\nHeath completed his major work, \"Citadel, Market and Altar\", in 1946, publishing it through his Science of Society Foundation, Inc. in 1957. In a review of the book Manas journal wrote: Mr. Heath returns to the socio-economic relationships of pre-Norman England for the foundation of an ideal society which will combine freedom and justice. This is a serious book with carefully worked-out plans and precise definitions. Mr. Heath's notion of ownership is very like Gandhi's conception of the stewardship of wealth: “In its Anglo-Saxon meaning, now only dimly realized, to own was to owe. Ownership was inclusive of others, not exclusive. What was owned, chiefly land, was held in trust, as it were.”\n\nHeath wrote: To obviate the essential tyranny (coercion) of political administration the proprietary authority, suitably organized, must extend its jurisdiction, and thus its revenues, by itself supplying police and other community services without coercion, out of its own revenues and properties, and thus raise its own values and voluntary incomes.\n\nThe model for Heathian anarchism is proprietary communities, multi-tenant properties such as hotels, shopping centers, industrial parks, and apartment buildings. Multi-tenant properties are the opposite of traditional real-estate developments; the developers would lease the homes rather than sell them, and thus be responsible for providing community services to maintain rental income and land value.\n\nMurray Rothbard based much of his criticism of Henry George on Spencer Heath’s writings. These in turn have influenced many libertarians. He also mentioned Heath’s views on community a number of times in his book \"Man, Economy and State\".\n\nHeath's system has been the model for intentional community and \"new country\" projects such as Werner K. Stiefel’s 1970s motel community and “Atlantis” projects.\n\nHeath's grandson Spencer Heath MacCallum holds Heath’s papers in the Heather Foundation, of which MacCullum is director. Heath was good friends with, and exchanged free market insights with, alternative monetary theorist E.C. Riegel whose papers also are held by the Foundation.\n\nSpencer MacCallum built upon and promoted his grandfather's ideas of proprietary community in his 1970 booklet \"The Art of Community\" and many articles, including \"The Enterprise of Community: Market Competition, Land, and Environment\" (2003) and \"Looking Back and Forward\" (which describes the influence of his grandfather) and \"From Upstate New York to the Horn of Africa\" (2005).\n\nHeath's views on rent were discussed in John Chamberlain's 1959 book, \"The Roots of Capitalism\" and Gus Dizerega’s year 2000 book \"Persuasion, Power, and Polity: A Theory of Democratic Self-Organization.\" His views on community were discussed in John McClaughrey's 1995 article “Private Idahoes” in Reason Magazine, a chapter of the 2001 book \"City and Country\", called \"The Completely Decentralized City: The Case for Benefits Based Public Finance\" and Gabriel Joseph Roth's 2006 book, \"Street Smart: Competition, Entrepreneurship, and the Future of Roads.\"\n\nHeath's system differs from the standard anarcho-capitalist private defense agency (PDA) model. Heath himself eschewed the term, and did not refer to himself as an anarchist. The PDA model envisions competing security agencies in the same geographical area rather than a proprietary zone. \n\nCiting Spencer MacCallum, economist Edward Stringham discusses how a system composed of many proprietary communities would encourage landlords to provide police in a way that their tenants value most, even if there were one provider of law in a given area. Stringham contrasts that vision with one that focuses on having multiple law enforcement agencies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4495335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4495335", "title": "Tautology (logic)", "text": "Tautology (logic)\n\nIn logic, a tautology (from the Greek word ταυτολογία) is a formula or assertion that is true in every possible interpretation. A simple example is \"(x equals y) or (x does not equal y)\" (or as a less abstract example, \"The ball is green or the ball is not green\").\n\nPhilosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein first applied the term to redundancies of propositional logic in 1921. (It had been used earlier to refer to rhetorical tautologies, and continues to be used in that alternative sense.) A formula is satisfiable if it is true under at least one interpretation, and thus a tautology is a formula whose negation is unsatisfiable. Unsatisfiable statements, both through negation and affirmation, are known formally as contradictions. A formula that is neither a tautology nor a contradiction is said to be logically contingent. Such a formula can be made either true or false based on the values assigned to its propositional variables. The double turnstile notation formula_1 is used to indicate that \"S\" is a tautology. Tautology is sometimes symbolized by \"V\"pq\"\", and contradiction by \"O\"pq\"\". The tee symbol formula_2 is sometimes used to denote an arbitrary tautology, with the dual symbol formula_3 (falsum) representing an arbitrary contradiction; in any symbolism, a tautology may be substituted for the truth value \"true,\" as symbolized, for instance, by \"1.\"\n\nTautologies are a key concept in propositional logic, where a tautology is defined as a propositional formula that is true under any possible Boolean valuation of its propositional variables. A key property of tautologies in propositional logic is that an effective method exists for testing whether a given formula is always satisfied (or, equivalently, whether its negation is unsatisfiable).\n\nThe definition of \"tautology\" can be extended to sentences in predicate logic, which may contain quantifiers, unlike sentences of propositional logic. In propositional logic, there is no distinction between a tautology and a logically valid formula. In the context of predicate logic, many authors define a tautology to be a sentence that can be obtained by taking a tautology of propositional logic and uniformly replacing each propositional variable by a first-order formula (one formula per propositional variable). The set of such formulas is a proper subset of the set of logically valid sentences of predicate logic (which are the sentences that are true in every model).\n\nThe word \"tautology\" was used by the ancient Greeks to describe a statement that was asserted to be true merely by virtue of saying the same thing twice, a pejorative meaning that is still used for rhetorical tautologies. Between 1800 and 1940, the word gained new meaning in logic, and is currently used in mathematical logic to denote a certain type of propositional formula, without the pejorative connotations it originally possessed.\n\nIn 1800, Immanuel Kant wrote in his book \"Logic\":\nHere \"analytic proposition\" refers to an analytic truth, a statement in natural language that is true solely because of the terms involved.\n\nIn 1884, Gottlob Frege proposed in his \"Grundlagen\" that a truth is analytic exactly if it can be derived using logic. But he maintained a distinction between analytic truths (those true based only on the meanings of their terms) and tautologies (statements devoid of content).\n\nIn 1921, in his \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", Ludwig Wittgenstein proposed that statements that can be deduced by logical deduction are tautological (empty of meaning) as well as being analytic truths. Henri Poincaré had made similar remarks in \"Science and Hypothesis\" in 1905. Although Bertrand Russell at first argued against these remarks by Wittgenstein and Poincaré, claiming that mathematical truths were not only non-tautologous but were synthetic, he later spoke in favor of them in 1918:\nHere \"logical proposition\" refers to a proposition that is provable using the laws of logic.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the formalization of the semantics of propositional logic in terms of truth assignments was developed. The term \"tautology\" began to be applied to those propositional formulas that are true regardless of the truth or falsity of their propositional variables. Some early books on logic (such as \"Symbolic Logic\" by C. I. Lewis and Langford, 1932) used the term for any proposition (in any formal logic) that is universally valid. It is common in presentations after this (such as Stephen Kleene 1967 and Herbert Enderton 2002) to use \"tautology\" to refer to a logically valid propositional formula, but to maintain a distinction between \"tautology\" and \"logically valid\" in the context of first-order logic (see below).\n\nPropositional logic begins with propositional variables, atomic units that represent concrete propositions. A formula consists of propositional variables connected by logical connectives, built up in such a way that the truth of the overall formula can be deduced from the truth or falsity of each variable. A valuation is a function that assigns each propositional variable either T (for truth) or F (for falsity). So, for example, using the propositional variables \"A\" and \"B\", the binary connectives formula_4 and formula_5 representing disjunction and conjunction respectively, and the unary connective formula_6 representing negation, the following formula can be obtained::formula_7.\nA valuation here must assign to each of \"A\" and \"B\" either T or F. But no matter how this assignment is made, the overall formula will come out true. For if the first conjunction formula_8 is not satisfied by a particular valuation, then one of \"A\" and \"B\" is assigned F, which will cause the corresponding later disjunct to be T.\n\nA formula of propositional logic is a tautology if the formula itself is always true regardless of which valuation is used for the propositional variables.\n\nThere are infinitely many tautologies. Examples include:\n\nA minimal tautology is a tautology that is not the instance of a shorter tautology.\n\nThe problem of determining whether a formula is a tautology is fundamental in propositional logic. If there are \"n\" variables occurring in a formula then there are 2 distinct valuations for the formula. Therefore, the task of determining whether or not the formula is a tautology is a finite, mechanical one: one need only evaluate the truth value of the formula under each of its possible valuations. One algorithmic method for verifying that every valuation causes this sentence to be true is to make a truth table that includes every possible valuation.\n\nFor example, consider the formula\nThere are 8 possible valuations for the propositional variables \"A\", \"B\", \"C\", represented by the first three columns of the following table. The remaining columns show the truth of subformulas of the formula above, culminating in a column showing the truth value of the original formula under each valuation.\n\nBecause each row of the final column shows \"T\", the sentence in question is verified to be a tautology.\n\nIt is also possible to define a deductive system (proof system) for propositional logic, as a simpler variant of the deductive systems employed for first-order logic (see Kleene 1967, Sec 1.9 for one such system). A proof of a tautology in an appropriate deduction system may be much shorter than a complete truth table (a formula with \"n\" propositional variables requires a truth table with 2 lines, which quickly becomes infeasible as \"n\" increases). Proof systems are also required for the study of intuitionistic propositional logic, in which the method of truth tables cannot be employed because the law of the excluded middle is not assumed.\n\nA formula \"R\" is said to tautologically imply a formula \"S\" if every valuation that causes \"R\" to be true also causes \"S\" to be true. This situation is denoted formula_19. It is equivalent to the formula formula_20 being a tautology (Kleene 1967 p. 27).\n\nFor example, let \"S\" be formula_21. Then \"S\" is not a tautology, because any valuation that makes \"A\" false will make \"S\" false. But any valuation that makes \"A\" true will make \"S\" true, because formula_22 is a tautology. Let \"R\" be the formula formula_23. Then formula_19, because any valuation satisfying \"R\" makes \"A\" true and thus makes \"S\" true.\n\nIt follows from the definition that if a formula \"R\" is a contradiction then \"R\" tautologically implies every formula, because there is no truth valuation that causes \"R\" to be true and so the definition of tautological implication is trivially satisfied. Similarly, if \"S\" is a tautology then \"S\" is tautologically implied by every formula.\n\nThere is a general procedure, the substitution rule, that allows additional tautologies to be\nconstructed from a given tautology (Kleene 1967 sec. 3). Suppose that \"S\" is a tautology and for\neach propositional variable \"A\" in \"S\" a fixed sentence \"S\" is chosen. Then the\nsentence obtained by replacing each variable \"A\" in \"S\" with the corresponding sentence \"S\" is also a tautology.\n\nFor example, let \"S\" be the tautology \nLet \"S\" be formula_26 and let \"S\" be formula_27.\nIt follows from the substitution rule that the sentence\nis a tautology, too. In turn, a tautology may be substituted for the truth value \"true\".\n\nAn axiomatic system is complete if every tautology is a theorem (derivable from axioms). An axiomatic system is sound if every theorem is a tautology.\n\nThe problem of constructing practical algorithms to determine whether sentences with large numbers of propositional variables are tautologies is an area of contemporary research in the area of automated theorem proving.\n\nThe method of truth tables illustrated above is provably correct – the truth table for a tautology will end in a column with only \"T\", while the truth table for a sentence that is not a tautology will contain a row whose final column is \"F\", and the valuation corresponding to that row is a valuation that does not satisfy the sentence being tested. This method for verifying tautologies is an effective procedure, which means that given unlimited computational resources it can always be used to mechanistically determine whether a sentence is a tautology. This means, in particular, the set of tautologies over a fixed finite or countable alphabet is a decidable set.\n\nAs an efficient procedure, however, truth tables are constrained by the fact that the number of valuations that must be checked increases as 2, where \"k\" is the number of variables in the formula. This exponential growth in the computation length renders the truth table method useless for formulas with thousands of propositional variables, as contemporary computing hardware cannot execute the algorithm in a feasible time period.\n\nThe problem of determining whether there is any valuation that makes a formula true is the Boolean satisfiability problem; the problem of checking tautologies is equivalent to this problem, because verifying that a sentence \"S\" is a tautology is equivalent to verifying that there is no valuation satisfying formula_29. It is known that the Boolean satisfiability problem is NP complete, and widely believed that there is no polynomial-time algorithm that can perform it. Consequently tautology is co-NP-complete. Current research focuses on finding algorithms that perform well on special classes of formulas, or terminate quickly on average even though some inputs may cause them to take much longer.\n\nThe fundamental definition of a tautology is in the context of propositional logic. The definition can be extended, however, to sentences in first-order logic (see Enderton (2002, p. 114) and Kleene (1967 secs. 17–18)). These sentences may contain quantifiers, unlike sentences of propositional logic. In the context of first-order logic, a distinction is maintained between logical validities, sentences that are true in every model, and tautologies, which are a proper subset of the first-order logical validities. In the context of propositional logic, these two terms coincide.\n\nA tautology in first-order logic is a sentence that can be obtained by taking a tautology of propositional logic and uniformly replacing each propositional variable by a first-order formula (one formula per propositional variable). For example,\nbecause formula_30 is a tautology of propositional logic, formula_31 is a tautology in first order logic. Similarly, in a first-order language with a unary relation symbols \"R\",\"S\",\"T\", the following sentence is a tautology:\nIt is obtained by replacing formula_33 with formula_34, formula_35 with formula_36, and formula_37 with formula_38 in the propositional tautology formula_39.\n\nNot all logical validities are tautologies in first-order logic. For example, the sentence\nis true in any first-order interpretation, but it corresponds to the propositional sentence formula_41 which is not a tautology of propositional logic.\n\nIn natural languages, some apparent tautologies may have non-tautological meanings in practice. In English, \"it is what it is\" is used to mean 'there is no way of changing it'. In Tamil, \"vantaalum varuvaan\" literally means 'if he comes, he will come', but really means 'he just may come'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35287906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35287906", "title": "Teleological behaviorism", "text": "Teleological behaviorism\n\nTeleological behaviorism is a variety of behaviorism. Like all other forms of Behaviorism it relies heavily on attention to outwardly observable human behaviors. Similarly to other branches of behaviorism, teleological behaviorism takes into account cognitive processes, like emotions and thoughts, but does not view these as empirical causes of behavior. Teleological behaviorism instead looks at these emotions and thoughts as behaviors themselves. Teleological behaviorism differs from other branches of Behaviorism through its focus on human capacity for self-control and also emphasizes the concept of free will.\n\nThe founder of teleological behaviorism is Howard Rachlin, an Emeritus Research Professor of Psychology at the State University of New York, Stony Brook. Originally focusing his work on operant behavior, he eventually became interested in the concepts of free-will as they applied to Behavioral Economics and turned his interest to the related field of teleological behaviorism from there. A large influence for Rachlin’s work was Aristotle’s early philosophies on the mind, specifically how “Artistotle’s classification of movements in terms of final rather than efficient causes corresponds to B.F. Skinner’s conception of an operant as a class of movements with a common end”. This concept that Rachlin is referring to is Artistotle’s concept of Telos, “the final cause” that drives us all forward towards a common end. Rachlin also found heavy inspiration in the writings and work of Tolman and Bandura after their work in Behaviorism. An example of Artistotle’s concept of Telos could come from the concept of drinking water. While most behaviorists would approach drinking water as a direct reaction to being thirsty, Rachlin would also consider the long-term effects and consider that the person is drinking water so that they do not eventually die of thirst. This far-sighted view offers a different viewpoint into the behaviors of human beings that may not be explained as clearly by operant conditioning, a concept of Behavioral Psychology that mostly focuses upon the short-term reactions that someone has learned. \n\nOn the subject of self-control, Rachlin states that it is less of a subject of knowing that one should not do something and more a matter of patience. He considers those with strong self-control simply more “long-term behaviorally-oriented” or “far-sighted.” This concept of considering further implications in the future is related to many other fields, particularly Rachlin’s second interest of Behavioral Economics. He likens the ability to weight the options of the future to avoiding making short-term poor investments in exchange for profitable, more beneficial ones at a much later point in time. \n\nMany people criticize Rachlin for his perspective, however, as his concepts of simply considering the potential reactions to certain situations over a longer time frame have been hailed as being closer to a self-help practice of making good investments and life choices than it is close to an actual Psychological practice. His main counter to this argument is that through this approach he has managed to help people by preparing them for potential negative outcomes in the future and trained them to recognize their own potential outcomes behind their actions.\n\nRachlin also has a different viewpoint on the subject of Free Will than most other people. He writes, “the meaning of free will lies not in what may or may not be going on in people’s heads or elsewhere in their bodies, but rather in how the term free will is actually used by the community to describe and to guide overt behavior” . In other words, society’s definitions and expectations are what guide us in terms of what they consider right and wrong as any other external factors do. Our definitions of free-will are contingent upon how much we let them affect our actions.\n\n"}
{"id": "51188560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51188560", "title": "Teleology in biology", "text": "Teleology in biology\n\nTeleology in biology is the use of the language of goal-directedness in accounts of evolutionary adaptation, which some biologists and philosophers of science find problematic. The term teleonomy has also been proposed. Before Darwin, organisms were seen as existing because God had designed and created them; their features such as eyes were taken by natural theology to have been made to enable them to carry out their functions, such as seeing. Evolutionary biologists often use similar teleological formulations that invoke purpose, but these imply natural selection rather than actual goals, whether conscious or not. Dissenting biologists and religious thinkers held that evolution itself was somehow goal-directed (orthogenesis), and in vitalist versions, driven by a purposeful life force. Since such views are now discredited, with evolution working by natural selection acting on inherited variation, the use of teleology in biology has attracted criticism, and attempts have been made to teach students to avoid teleological language.\n\nNevertheless, biologists still often write about evolution as if organisms had goals, and some philosophers of biology such as Francisco Ayala and biologists such as J. B. S. Haldane consider that teleological language is unavoidable in evolutionary biology.\n\nTeleology, from Greek τέλος, \"telos\" \"end, purpose\" and -λογία, \"logia\", \"a branch of learning\", was coined by the philosopher Christian von Wolff in 1728. The concept derives from the ancient Greek philosophy of Aristotle, where the final cause (the purpose) of a thing is its function. However, Aristotle's biology does not envisage evolution by natural selection.\n\nPhrases used by biologists like \"a function of ... is to ...\" or \"is designed for\" are teleological at least in language. The presence of real or apparent teleology in explanations of natural selection is a controversial aspect of the philosophy of biology, not least for its echoes of natural theology.\n\nBefore Darwin, natural theology both assumed the existence of God and used the appearance of function in nature to argue for the existence of God. The English parson-naturalist John Ray stated that his intention was \"to illustrate the glory of God in the knowledge of the works of nature or creation\". Natural theology presented forms of the teleological argument or argument from design, namely that organs functioned well for their apparent purpose, so they were well-designed, so they must have been designed by a benevolent creator. For example, the eye had the function of seeing, and contained features like the iris and lens that assisted with seeing; therefore, ran the argument, it had been designed for that purpose.\n\nReligious thinkers and biologists have repeatedly supposed that evolution was driven by some kind of life force, a philosophy known as vitalism, and have often supposed that it had some kind of goal or direction (towards which the life force was striving, if they also believed in that), known as orthogenesis or evolutionary progress. Such goal-directedness implies a long-term teleological force; some supporters of orthogenesis considered it to be a spiritual force, while others held that it was purely biological. For example, the Russian embryologist Karl Ernst von Baer believed in a teleological force in nature, whereas the French spiritualist philosopher Henri Bergson linked orthogenesis with vitalism, arguing for a creative force in evolution known as \"élan vital\" in his book \"Creative Evolution\" (1907). The French biophysicist Pierre Lecomte du Noüy and the American botanist Edmund Ware Sinnott developed vitalist evolutionary philosophies known as \"telefinalism\" and \"telism\" respectively. Their views were heavily criticized as non-scientific; the palaeontologist George Gaylord Simpson argued that Du Noüy and Sinnott were promoting religious versions of evolution. The Jesuit paleontologist Pierre Teilhard de Chardin argued that evolution was aiming for a supposed spiritual \"Omega Point\" in what he called \"directed additivity\". With the emergence of the modern evolutionary synthesis, in which the genetic mechanisms of evolution were discovered, the hypothesis of orthogenesis was largely abandoned by biologists, especially with Ronald Fisher's argument in his 1930 book \"The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection\".\n\nNatural selection, introduced in 1859 as the central mechanism of evolution by Charles Darwin, is the differential survival and reproduction of individuals due to differences in phenotype. The mechanism directly implies evolution, a change in heritable traits of a population over time.\n\nA trait which persists in a population is often assumed by biologists to have been selected for in the course of evolution, raising the question of how the trait achieves this. Biologists call any such mechanism the function of the trait, using phrases like \"A function of stotting by antelopes is to communicate to predators that they have been detected\", or \"The primate hand is designed (by natural selection) for grasping.\"\n\nAn adaptation is an observable structure or other feature of an organism (for example, an enzyme) generated by natural selection to serve its current function. A biologist might propose the hypothesis that feathers are adaptations for bird flight. That would require three things: that the trait of having feathers is heritable; that the trait does serve the function of flight; and that the trait increases the fitness of the organisms that have it. Feathers clearly meet these three conditions in living birds. However, there is also a historical question, namely, did the trait arise at the same time as bird flight? Unfortunately for the hypothesis, this seems not to be so: theropod dinosaurs had feathers, but many of them did not fly. Feathers can be described as an exaptation, having been co-opted for flight but having evolved earlier for another purpose such as insulation. Biologists may describe both the co-option and the earlier adaptation in teleological language.\n\nApparent teleology is a recurring issue in evolutionary biology, much to the consternation of some writers, and as an explanatory style it remains controversial. There are various reasons for discomfort with teleology among biologists.\n\nFirstly, the concept of adaptation is itself controversial, as it can be taken to imply, as the evolutionary biologists Stephen J. Gould and Richard Lewontin argued, that biologists agree with Voltaire's Doctor Pangloss in his 1759 satire \"Candide\" that this is \"the best of all possible worlds\", in other words that every trait is perfectly suited to its functions. However, all that evolutionary biology requires is the weaker claim that one trait is at least slightly better in a certain context than another, and hence is selected for.\n\nSecondly, teleology is linked to the pre-Darwinian idea of natural theology, that the natural world gives evidence of the conscious design and beneficent intentions of a creator, as in the writings of John Ray. William Derham continued Ray's tradition with books such as his 1713 \"Physico-Theology\" and his 1714 \"Astro-Theology\". They in turn influenced William Paley who wrote a detailed teleological argument for God in 1802, \"Natural Theology, or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity collected from the Appearances of Nature\", starting with the Watchmaker analogy. Such creationism, along with a vitalist life-force and directed orthogenetic evolution, has been rejected by most biologists.\n\nThirdly, attributing purposes to adaptations risks confusion with popular forms of Lamarckism where animals in particular have been supposed to influence their own evolution through their intentions, though Lamarck himself spoke rather of habits of use, and the belief that his thinking was teleological has been challenged.\n\nFourthly, the teleological explanation of adaptation is uncomfortable because it seems to require backward causation, in which existing traits are explained by future outcomes; because it seems to attribute the action of a conscious mind when none is assumed to be present in an organism; and because, as a result, adaptation looks impossible to test empirically.\n\nA fifth reason concerns students rather than researchers: Gonzalez Galli argues that since people naturally imagine that evolution has a purpose or direction, then the use of teleological language by scientists may act as an obstacle to students when learning about natural selection. Such language, he argues, should be removed to make teaching more effective.\n\nStatements which imply that nature has goals, for example where a species is said to do something \"in order to\" achieve survival, appear teleological, and therefore invalid to evolutionary biologists. It is however usually possible to rewrite such sentences to avoid the apparent teleology. Some biology courses have incorporated exercises requiring students to rephrase such sentences so that they do not read teleologically. Nevertheless, biologists still frequently write in a way which can be read as implying teleology, even though that is not their intention. John Reiss argues that evolutionary biology can be purged of apparent teleology by rejecting the pre-Darwinian watchmaker analogy for natural selection; other arguments against this analogy have also been promoted by writers such as the evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins.\n\nSome philosophers of biology such as James G. Lennox have argued that Darwin was a teleologist, while others like Michael Ghiselin described this claim as a myth promoted by misinterpretations of his discussions, and emphasized the distinction between using teleological metaphors and actually being teleological. Andrew Askland, from the Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law claims that unlike transhumanism, an ideology that aims to improve the human condition, which he asserts is \"wholly teleological\", Darwinian evolution is not teleological.\n\nVarious commentators view the teleological phrases used in modern evolutionary biology as a type of shorthand for describing any function which offers an evolutionary advantage through natural selection. For example, the zoologist S. H. P. Madrell wrote that \"the proper but cumbersome way of describing change by evolutionary adaptation [may be] substituted by shorter overtly teleological statements\" for the sake of saving space, but that this \"should not be taken to imply that evolution proceeds by anything other than from mutations arising by chance, with those that impart an advantage being retained by natural selection.\"\n\nOther philosophers of biology argue instead that biological teleology is irreducible, and cannot be removed by any simple process of rewording. Francisco Ayala argued that all statements about processes can be trivially translated into teleological statements, and vice versa, but that teleological statements are more explanatory and cannot be disposed of. Karen Neander similarly argued that the modern concept of biological 'function' depends on natural selection. So, for example, it is not possible to say that anything that simply winks into existence, without going through a process of selection, actually has functions. We decide whether an appendage has a function by analysing the process of selection that led to it. Therefore, Neander argues, any talk of functions must be posterior to natural selection, function must be defined by reference to the history of a species, and teleology cannot be avoided. The evolutionary biologist Ernst Mayr likewise stated that \"adaptedness ... is an \"a posteriori\" result rather than an \"a priori\" goal-seeking.\"\n\nAngela Breitenbach, looking at the question of teleology in biology from a Kantian perspective, argues that teleology is important as \"a heuristic in the search for causal explanations of nature and ... an inevitable analogical perspective on living beings.\" In her view of Kant, teleology implies something that cannot be explained by science, but only understood through analogy.\n\nColin Pittendrigh coined the similar term 'teleonomy' for apparently goal-directed biological phenomena. Ernst Mayr criticised Pittendrigh's confusion of Aristotle's four causes, arguing that evolution only involved the material and formal but not the efficient cause. Mayr proposed to use the term only for \"systems operating on the basis of a program of coded information.\"\n\nWilliam C. Wimsatt affirmed that the teleologicality of the language of biology and other fields derives from the logical structure of their background theories, and not merely from the use of teleological locutions such as \"function\" and \"in order to\". He stated that \"To replace talk about function by talk about selection [...] is not to eliminate teleology but to rephrase it\". However, Wimsatt argues that this thought does not mean an appeal to backwards causation, vitalism, entelechy, or anti-reductionist sentiments.\n\nThe biologist J. B. S. Haldane observed that \"Teleology is like a mistress to a biologist: he cannot live without her but he's unwilling to be seen with her in public.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6698415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6698415", "title": "The Postmodern Condition", "text": "The Postmodern Condition\n\nThe Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge () is a 1979 book by Jean-François Lyotard, in which Lyotard analyzes the notion of knowledge in postmodern society as the end of 'grand narratives' or metanarratives, which he considers a quintessential feature of modernity. Lyotard introduced the term 'postmodernism', which was previously only used by art critics, into philosophy and social sciences, with the following observation: \"Simplifying to the extreme, I define postmodern as incredulity towards metanarratives\". Originally written as a report on the influence of technology in exact sciences, commissioned by the \"Conseil des universités du Québec\", \"The Postmodern Condition\" was influential. Lyotard later admitted that he had a \"less than limited\" knowledge of the science he was to write about, deeming \"The Postmodern Condition\" his worst book.\n\nLyotard criticizes metanarratives such as reductionism and teleological notions of human history such as those of the Enlightenment and Marxism, arguing that they have become untenable because of technological progress in the areas of communication, mass media and computer science. Techniques such as artificial intelligence and machine translation show a shift to linguistic and symbolic production as central elements of the postindustrial economy and the related postmodern culture, which had risen at the end of the 1950s after the reconstruction of western Europe. The result is a plurality of language-games (a term coined by Ludwig Wittgenstein), of different types of argument. At the same time, the goal of truth in science is replaced by \"performativity\" and efficiency in the service of capital or the state, and science produces paradoxical results such as chaos theory, all of which undermine science's grand narrative. Lyotard professes a preference for this plurality of small narratives that compete with each other, replacing the totalitarianism of grand narratives.\n\n\"The Postmodern Condition\" was influential. However, Lyotard later admitted that he had a \"less than limited\" knowledge of the science he wrote about, and to compensate for this knowledge, he \"made stories up\" and referred to a number of books that he hadn't actually read. In retrospect, he called it \"a parody\" and \"simply the worst of all my books\". Poet Frederick Turner writes that, like many post-structuralist works, \"The Postmodern Condition\" \"has not worn well.\" However, he sees it more readable than other post-structuralist works, and credits Lyotard with covering \"a good deal of ground in a lively and economical fashion.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "600780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=600780", "title": "Vast right-wing conspiracy", "text": "Vast right-wing conspiracy\n\n\"Vast right-wing conspiracy\" is a conspiracy theory popularized by a 1995 memo by political opposition researcher Chris Lehane and then referenced in 1998 by the then First Lady of the United States Hillary Clinton, in defense of her husband, President Bill Clinton, characterizing the continued allegations of scandal against her and her husband, including the Lewinsky scandal, as part of a long campaign by Clinton's political enemies. The term has been used since, including in a question posed to Bill Clinton in 2009 to describe verbal attacks on Barack Obama during his early presidency. Hillary Clinton mentioned it again during her 2016 presidential campaign.\n\nWhile popularized by Mrs. Clinton in her 1998 TODAY Show interview, the phrase did not originate with her. In 1991 the \"Detroit News\" wrote:\n\nAn \"Associated Press\" story in 1995 also used the phrase, relating an official's guess that the Oklahoma City bombing was the work of \"maybe five malcontents\" and not \"some kind of vast right-wing conspiracy.\"\n\nA 332-page memo titled \"Communication Stream of Conspiracy Commerce\" was commissioned by Mark Fabiani and written by Chris Lehane in 1995. It was the first document to describe the conspiracies surrounding the Clintons, which Hillary Clinton later popularized with the term \"vast right-wing conspiracy.\" It described how online conservative media outlets such as \"The American Spectator\" spread conspiracy theories about the suicide of Vince Foster, the Whitewater controversy, and other events. According to the memo, these conspiracies spread from conservative think tanks to British tabloids, and then to the mainstream press.\n\nIn response to ongoing accusations surrounding the Clintons' investment in a real estate development known as Whitewater in the late 1970s and early 1980s, Clinton's Attorney General Janet Reno had appointed an independent counsel, Kenneth Starr, to investigate those accusations in 1994. Starr's investigation began to branch out into other issues, from Filegate to Travelgate to Bill Clinton's actions in the civil case of his alleged sexual harassment of Paula Jones prior to his presidency. In the course of the last of these, White House intern Monica Lewinsky signed an affidavit that she had not had a relationship with Clinton, but Lewinsky's confidant Linda Tripp had been recording their phone conversations and offered Starr tapes of Lewinsky describing her feelings for, and alleging intimate encounters with, the president. The president was asked to give a deposition, and accusations that he lied about an affair under oath first made national headlines on January 17, 1998, when the story was picked up by the conservative-right e-mail newsletter \"The Drudge Report\". Despite swift denials from President Clinton, the media attention grew.\n\nOn January 27, 1998, Hillary Clinton appeared on NBC's \"The Today Show\", in an interview with Matt Lauer.\n\nClinton elaborated by decrying the tactics \"and the kind of intense political agenda at work here\". Bob Woodward recounts in his book \"The Agenda\" (1994) that the then-first lady claimed that when her husband was making his decision to run for the presidency in 1991, he reported receiving \"a direct threat from someone in the Bush White House, warning that if he ran, the Republicans would go after him. 'We will do everything we can to destroy you personally,' she recalled that the Bush White House man had said.\"\n\nDavid Brock, a conservative-turned-liberal author, has said he was once a part of an effort to dredge up a scandal against Clinton. In 1993 Brock, then of the \"American Spectator\", was the first to report Paula Jones' claims. As Brock explained in \"Blinded by the Right\", after learning more about the events and conservative payments surrounding Paula Jones he personally apologized to the Clintons. He documented his experience in \"Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative\", wherein he alleged that Arkansas state troopers had taken money in exchange for testimony against Clinton which Brock had published in a previous book. Adam Curtis also discusses the concept in his documentary series \"The Power of Nightmares\". Brock has agreed with Clinton's claim that there was a \"Right wing conspiracy\" to smear her husband, quibbling only with the characterization of it as \"vast\", since Brock contends that it was orchestrated mainly by a few powerful people. MSNBC also described the comment as once-ridiculed but now taken more seriously by \"many Democrats\" who point \"to the well-documented efforts by conservative financier Richard Mellon Scaife to fund a network of anti-Clinton investigations.\"\n\nSpecific claims of such funding have been made against conservative Republican supporter and billionaire Richard Mellon Scaife. Scaife played a major role in funding the Arkansas Project investigating President Clinton; former Clinton White House Counsel Lanny Davis claimed Scaife was using his money \"to destroy a president of the United States.\" Scaife claims to be public about his political spending (q.v.). CNN stated in a study the news outlet conducted on Scaife, \"If it's a conspiracy, it's a pretty open one.\"\n\nHillary Clinton wrote in her 2003 autobiography, \"Looking back, I see that I might have phrased my point more artfully, but I stand by the characterization of Starr's investigation [regardless of the truth about Lewinsky].\" By 2007 her experiences caused Hillary Clinton to say in presidential campaign appearances that the vast right-wing conspiracy was back, citing such cases as the 2002 New Hampshire Senate election phone jamming scandal. On the stump for Al Franken's 2008 Senate campaign, Bill Clinton acknowledged his Air America Radio show by quipping that he had been taking on the \"vast right wing conspiracy before others even acknowledged that it existed\".\n\nFormer President Clinton, when asked on \"Meet the Press\" (September 27, 2009) whether the vast right wing conspiracy was involved in the attacks on President Barack Obama, said \"Oh, you bet. Sure it is. It's not as strong as it was, because America's changed demographically, but it's as virulent as it was ... when they accused me of murder and all that stuff.\"\n\nTwo other figures who have used the phrase are Nobel laureate economist Paul Krugman and journalist Joe Conason. Conason, in an article called \"The vast right-wing conspiracy is back,\" refers the National Republican Trust PAC and Newsmax Media, which are run by former foes of Bill Clinton and who made attacks on then-President Barack Obama. The National Republican Trust PAC sponsored a campaign commercials against Obama in 2008 which FactCheck.org described as \"one of the sleaziest false TV ads of the campaign.\" One of Newsmax Media's owners \"was among the most insistent endorsers of the Obama birth certificate myth\" and a popularizer of the canard that Bill Clinton's White House counsel Vince Foster did not commit suicide—as determined by five official investigations—but was murdered.\n\nIn some of his books, Krugman has used the phrase (\"Yes, Virginia, there is a vast right-wing conspiracy\") to refer not to a conservative Republican-leaning campaign against Clinton (or Obama), but more generally to \"an interlocking set of institutions ultimately answering to a small group of people that collectively reward loyalists and punish dissenters\" in the service of \"movement conservatism.\" The network of institutions provide \n\nobedient politicians with the resources to win elections, safe havens in the event of defeat, and lucrative career opportunities after they leave office. They guarantee favorable news coverage to politicians who follow the party line, while harassing and undermining opponents. And they support a large standing army of party intellectuals and activists.\n\nIn Krugman's view, the network of foundations that fund conservative scholarship, the national and regional think tanks and advocacy groups, talk radio media outlets, and conservative law firms through which they pushed their agenda to move the Republican Party to the right, far surpass in funding, size, inter-connectedness or influence anything the Democratic Party or the American liberal movement have at their disposal.\n\nIn April 2014, the Clinton Presidential Center published the original 1995 memo on the conspiracy. The memo's author, Chris Lehane, wrote, \"As for the premise of the memo, I absolutely stand by it. Not only was it right about the right wing then, it is more accurate than ever today.\"\n\nIn 2016, Hillary Clinton said she still believed in the \"vast right-wing conspiracy\", adding that it was \"even better funded\" 18 years later. However, she opined, \"At this point it's probably not correct to say it's a conspiracy because it's out in the open.\"\n\nIn October, after footage of Donald Trump boasting about his sexual exploits emerged and multiple women accused Trump of sexual misconduct, Melania Trump defended her husband and said, \"This was all organized from the opposition.\" Writers for the \"Los Angeles Times\" and \"The Washington Post\" noted that Melania's response \"echoed\" Hillary's original use of the phrase \"vast right-wing conspiracy.\"\n\nAfter the release of a deposition Bill Clinton had given to the Independent Counsel in which he perjured himself, some conservatives began to adopt the VRWC phrasing ironically. In 2004, conservative lawyer Mark W. Smith wrote the \"New York Times\" Best Seller \"Official Handbook of the Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy\", which came with a \"membership card\" that made its owner an \"official member of the VRWC.\" Similarly, a number of newspaper, magazine, and website articles have used the phrase to report on left-wing politics. Eugene Volokh's blog The Volokh Conspiracy is said to have derived its name from as a reference to the \"Vast right-wing conspiracy\" statement.\n\nThe term \"Vast Right Wing Conspiracy\" continues to be mocked by conservatives.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36505223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36505223", "title": "What is Philosophy? (Deleuze and Guattari)", "text": "What is Philosophy? (Deleuze and Guattari)\n\nWhat is Philosophy? () is a 1991 book by French authors Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari, respectively a philosopher and a psychoanalyst.\n\nDeleuze commented in a letter to one of his translators that his purpose in writing \"What is Philosophy?\" was to address \"the problem of absolute immanence\" and to explain why he considered Baruch Spinoza the \"prince of philosophers.\"\n\nDeleuze and Guattari deal with the distinction between philosophy and science, arguing that the former deals with concepts and the latter with functions. They discuss the philosophy of science and the philosophy of mathematics.\n\nThe physicists Alan Sokal and Jean Bricmont, writing in \"Fashionable Nonsense\" (1997), state that \"What is Philosophy\" became a best-seller in France in 1991. They argue that in attempting to show how philosophy and science are distinct, Deleuze and Guattari use scientific terms such as \"chaos\" in incorrect or misleading ways, and that while in some passages they seem to discuss serious problems in the philosophy of science and mathematics, these passages prove to be largely meaningless on close inspection.\n\nThe philosopher Roger Scruton, writing in \"Fools, Frauds and Firebrands: Thinkers of the New Left\" (2016), criticized \"What is Philosophy?\", describing it as poorly written.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2418367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2418367", "title": "White Wind Zen Community", "text": "White Wind Zen Community\n\nThe White Wind Zen Community (WWZC) is based at the Zen Centre of Ottawa (\"Honzan Dainen-ji\") in Ottawa, Ontario, with branch centres in Wolfville, Nova Scotia and Harrow, England. The Community is led by the Venerable Anzan Hoshin roshi. It consists of both a monastic order, the Northern Mountain Order, and a large community of associate, general, and formal lay students.\n\nThe WWZC was founded in 1985 as the White Wind Zazenkai (\"Hakukaze Zazenkai\"), named after the Hakukaze-ji monastery of Anzan Hoshin roshi's teacher, the late Ven. Yasuda Joshu Dainen Hakukaze. The association was renamed \"White Wind Zen Community\" in 1989. While Anzan Hoshin roshi is still in permanent residence at the Ottawa centre, he retired from public teaching in 1991 and currently teaches only monastic and formal students. Lay teaching is currently performed by his Dharma-successors, the Ven. Shikai Zuiko o-sensei and the Ven. Jinmyo Renge osho, and by practice advisors trained by Anzan Hoshin roshi.\n\nIn addition to offering an intensive schedule of practice year-round, including sittings, sesshin and outreach of a Western Zen centre, the WWZC provides a large number of individual students outside of commuting distance of the monastery or its branches with long-distance training. The long-distance training program provides students practice interviews and daisan via e-mail, telephone, or letter, and grants students access to a library of over 2000 recorded dharma talks. The WWZC also publishes books and audio recordings through its publishing arm, Great Matter Publications.\n\n\n"}
