{"id": "6046394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6046394", "title": "2000 Southern United States heat wave", "text": "2000 Southern United States heat wave\n\nAided by drought, a heat wave persisted in the late summer of 2000 along the southern tier of the United States from July to early September. Near the end of the period, daily, monthly, and even all-time record high temperatures were broken, with highs commonly peaking well over 100 °F (38 °C). On September 4, Houston hit 109 °F (42.8 °C) and Dallas peaked at 111 °F (43.9 °C). On September 5, Corpus Christi peaked at 109 °F (42.8 °C) and San Antonio rose to an all-time high of 111 °F (43.9 °C), while College Station and Austin reached 112 °F (44.4 °C). Damage totaled $4 billion, mainly due to wildfires and crop losses, and there were 140 deaths.\n\n"}
{"id": "46548043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46548043", "title": "2015 Pakistan cyclone", "text": "2015 Pakistan cyclone\n\nSevere storm hit areas of northwest Pakistan on the night of Sunday, April 26, 2015. It caused considerable damage in the cities of Peshawar, Nowshera, and Charsadda. The storm featured heavy rains accompanied by hail and high-speed winds of over 120 kilometers per hour (or 75 miles per hour). As a result of the storm's damaging effects, 45 people were killed and over 200 were wounded.\n\nThe storm occurred after parts of Pakistan were already partially flooded from prior rainfall in February 2015, up to a meter (or three feet) deep in some places. The storm also collapsed many buildings’ walls and roofs, took down many electricity poles, and killed livestock and damaged many crops in rural Peshawar and Charsadda (including wheat crops and orchards).\n\nAfter the storm, many people remained injured or without drinkable water, food, and shelter. The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government organized and sent members of the Provincial Disaster Management Authority (PMDA) and the military to aid with rescue and recovery efforts in the areas affected.The storm was informally dubbed a “mini-cyclone” in the press. Satellite imagery (see sidebar) and ERAI reanalysis data suggest that it was not a synoptic-scale cyclone but was rather a form of mesoscale convective system, which can create intense winds in the form of a tornado or a derecho.\n\nHeavy weather on the subsequent day (Monday) forced the Pakistani military to cancel two flights to Nepal taking supplies to survivors of the earthquake on the previous day (Saturday).\n\n"}
{"id": "3713347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3713347", "title": "Aegean Sea tanker oil spill", "text": "Aegean Sea tanker oil spill\n\nThe \"Aegean Sea\" tanker oil spill was a spill that occurred on 3 December 1992 when the double-bottomed Greek-flagged oil tanker, \"Aegean Sea\", en route to the Repsol refinery in A Coruña, Spain, suffered an accident off the Galician coast. The ship had successfully passed all required tests and revisions. The accident occurred during extreme weather conditions and affected the Galician coast resulting in ecosystem damage, as well as damage to the fishing and tourist industries in A Coruña. The captain and pilot were found to be criminally liable and the shipowner took on much of the monetary liability. \nAfter being anchored for a few days off the coast of A Coruña due to weather hazards, \"Aegean Sea\" was ordered into port by port authorities. Due to this, on 3 December 1992, the oil-ore Greek carrier ship \"Aegean Sea\", ran aground off the coast of Galicia at nearly 5 a.m. The ship was on its route to A Coruña, Spain, from Sullom Voe, Scotland. Allegedly, a heavy storm managed to push the ship off course and cause her to run aground. A rescue team was sent immediately but failed to keep the ship from breaking in half. This caused the cargo of light crude oil to be spilled which affected sea life. A temporary evacuation of the city of A Coruña was implemented in order to protect the citizens from the hazards of the oil smoke. Out of the 79,000 tonnes of crude oil that the ship was carrying, 67,000 tonnes managed to be spilled and the remaining was salvaged. The salvaged oil was retained through the use of booms, skimmers, and pumps. Since half of the ship was still above water, the rescue team used pumps to drain the still intact tanks. Soon after, the ship caught on fire and continued to burn for a period of five days. The remaining oil drifted with the strong currents produced by the wind, and as much as 300 km of coast line were affected by the spill. As for the thirty-two-man crew, a rescue helicopter managed to save all of them.\n\nAs the vessel prepared to enter the docks of A Coruña, the wind speed was above , and visibility was under , causing her to lose her assigned course. \"Aegean Sea\" broke up and exploded with flames near the Tower of Hercules, spilling more than 70,000 tons of oil into the ocean.\n\nThe two anchors of \"Aegean Sea\" were recovered, and are now on display at Aquarium Finisterrae in A Coruña, and at the Philippe Cousteau Museum at Salinas, Asturias.\n\nClean-up crews were immediately sent to the disaster site, both on and offshore. Oil booms were placed around the spill in order to contain the oil. The booms collected around 5,000 cubic meters of an oil/water mixture. On shore, 1,200 cubic meters of contaminated sand and debris were treated for oil. Since only the bow of \"Aegean Sea\" had sunk, pumps were placed in the stern that pumped out the remaining oil.\n\nThe Aegean Sea oil spill affected countless amounts of sea life. A Coruña's fishing industry received the hardest blow, with the ban of all fishing by the Fisheries Council. A claim for fishermens' assistance that totalled nearly 3.53 million dollars was implemented soon after the oil spill. Although the Fisheries Council aided the fishers with some reimbursements, these were nowhere close to fully compensating the fishermens' losses. A flood of claims from fishermen and the tourist industry came to the Spanish Court, totalling around 287 million dollars by 2001. Most of these claims were settled, but some claims remain litigious. The International Oil Pollution Compensation (IOPC), the Spanish Government, and the ship owner finally came to a settlement, with the last payment made in December 2003. In addition to the monetary settlements, the captain, Constantine Stavrides, and the pilot were also found criminally liable for negligence and for failing to follow regulations.\n\nHydrocarbons, being a significant source of energy due to their strong chemical bonds, were a prime source for scientific study in the Aegean Sea oil spill. Chemical markers were placed in a sample of the crude oil spilled, with interesting data revealed. Alkanes and acyclic hydrocarbons, both having single bonds, appeared to have deteriorated in only six months, while triterpane and steranane were still present after years of weathering. Both triterpane and steranane have multiple bonds, which is the reason they were still present after so many years. Researchers concluded that chemical markers can be of effective use against oil spills. These markers can allow scientists to determine how long the oil has contaminated seawater, and how the seawater affects the oil collected with water. This can be helpful in the process where spilled oil is collected and processed for reuse. Chemical markers may now be placed in the oil to determine how much the oil must be cleaned to be satisfactory for use.\n\nThe Galician coast was an extremely vital source of income for Spain's fishing industry. Crab and lobster harvesting, salmon farming, and the main profit industry of shellfish farming were all affected by the spill. Soon after the oil spill, Spain ordered a study of the ecosystem in order to evaluate the damage done to the benthic fauna in the region, and muddy sediments. This study was enforced due to the fact that an earlier oil spill had occurred in the same area: on 12 May 1976, the supertanker \"Urquiola\" scraped the bottom of the channel entrance in A Coruña, causing the ship to spill its cargo of 107,000 tons of oil. This affected sea life as well as subtidal sediments, but the surviving sea life developed defense mechanisms which allowed them to survive such a crisis. The sea life in A Coruña appeared to remain stable until the wreck of the \"Aegean Sea\". \n\nTo determine the impact of the spill on sea life, a study was conducted to determine species richness, abundance, and biomass. Scientist analyzed changes from December 1992 to November 1996, and found that the macrobenthic communities living in the coast of the affected areas displayed a similar trend as the original organisms affected by the \"Urquiola\"s oil spill. Amphipods seemed to be affected the worst by the oil spill, and experienced a high mortality rate and low abundance rate, up to the spring of 1995. Soon after, the species seemed to recover until the end of the study in 1996. Towards the end of the study, a trend was discovered in which resistant species dominated the ecosystem. \n\nA third oil spill occurred around the same area in A Coruña in November 2002, in which a tanker, \"Prestige\", carrying 77,000 tons of oil split into two and spilled its cargo. About 10,000 tons of oil was spilled but the sunken hull of \"Prestige\" is still leaking oil from her tanks to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "3147292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3147292", "title": "Alacrite", "text": "Alacrite\n\nAlacrite (also known as L-605, Cobalt L-605, Haynes 25, and occasionally F90) is a family of cobalt-based alloys. The alloy exhibits useful mechanical properties and is oxidation- and sulfidation-resistant.\n\nOne member of the family, XSH Alacrite, is described as \"a non-magnetic, stainless super-alloy whose high surface hardness enables one to achieve a mirror quality polish.\" Originally developed for manufacturing aircraft components, L-605 has also been used in aerospace components and turbine engines as well as drug-eluting and other kinds of stents due to its biocompatibility. The Institut National de Métrologie in France has also used the material as a kilogram mass standard.\n\nL-605 is composed primarily of cobalt (Co), with a specified mixture of chromium (Cr), tungsten (W), nickel (Ni), iron (Fe) and carbon (C), as well as small amounts of manganese (Mn), silicon (Si), and phosphorus (P). The tungsten and nickel improve the alloy's machinability, while chromium contributes to its solid-solution strengthening. The following tolerances must be met to be considered an L-605 alloy:\n\nWhen used for implantable medical devices, the ASTM F90-09 and ISO 5832-5:2005 specifications dictate how L-605 is manufactured and tested.\n"}
{"id": "496707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496707", "title": "Angus King", "text": "Angus King\n\nAngus Stanley King Jr. (born March 31, 1944) is an American politician and attorney serving as the junior United States Senator from Maine since 2013. A political independent since 1993, he was the 72nd Governor of Maine from 1995 to 2003.\n\nKing won Maine's 2012 Senate election to replace the retiring Republican Olympia Snowe and took office on January 3, 2013. He was reelected to his second term in 2018, following the state's inaugural instant-runoff voting elections. For committee assignment purposes, he caucuses with the Democratic Party. He is one of two independents currently serving in the Senate, the other being Bernie Sanders of Vermont.\n\nKing was born in Alexandria, Virginia, the son of Ellen Archer (née Ticer) and Angus Stanley King Sr., a lawyer. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1966 with a B.A. and the University of Virginia School of Law in 1969 with a J.D. While a student at Dartmouth, King joined the Delta Upsilon social fraternity.\n\nSoon after graduation from Virginia, King entered private law practice in Brunswick, Maine. He was a staff attorney for Pine Tree Legal Assistance in Skowhegan. In 1972, he served as chief counsel to the U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Alcoholism and Narcotics. King served as a legislative assistant to Democratic U.S. Senator William Hathaway in the 1970s. He was also well-known statewide as a television host on public television. In 1973, when he was 29, King was diagnosed with an aggressive form of malignant melanoma. King has said he believes he survived cancer only because he had health insurance, and he has highlighted this experience when explaining his support for the Affordable Care Act.\n\nIn 1975, King returned to Maine to practice with Smith, Loyd and King in Brunswick. In 1983, he was appointed vice president of Swift River/Hafslund Company, which developed alternative energy (hydro and biomass) projects in New England. In 1989, King founded Northeast Energy Management, Inc., a company that developed and operated electrical energy conservation projects. In 1994, he sold the company. In 2012, King's investments were valued at between $4.8 million and $22.5 million.\n\nIn May 1993, King announced he would run for governor of Maine as an independent, as incumbent Governor John McKernan, a Republican, was term-limited and could not seek another term. King abandoned his lifelong affiliation with the Maine Democratic Party. \"The Democratic Party as an institution has become too much the party that is looking for something from government,\" King explained to the \"Bangor Daily News\" a few weeks after he announced he would be running.\n\nThe Republican nominee was Susan Collins, Commissioner of Professional and Financial Regulation under Governor John McKernan and a protégée of U.S. Senator William Cohen, and at the time relatively unknown to the electorate. The Democratic nominee was former Governor and U.S. Representative Joseph E. Brennan. It was Brennan's fifth campaign for governor.\n\nThe general election was a highly competitive four-way race between King, Collins, Brennan, and Green Party nominee Jonathan Carter. King decided to invest early in television advertising during Maine's unusually early June primary, allowing him to emerge from the primary season on an equal footing with his rivals. King positioned himself as a businessman and a pragmatic environmentalist focused on job creation and education. \"The Washington Times\" described him as an idealist who \"wants to slash regulations but preserve the environment; hold the line on taxes; impose work and education requirements on welfare recipients; experiment with public school choice and cut at least $60 million from the state budget.\" His opponents criticized him for flip-flopping. Collins argued King \"presents different images, depending on who he is talking to. Angus has been a Democrat his whole life. In my opinion, he became an independent because he didn't think he could beat Joe Brennan in a primary. He's extremely smooth, articulate and bright, but he says different things to different groups.\"\n\nKing narrowly won the November 8 election with 35% of the vote to Brennan's 34%, a margin of just 7,878 votes. (Collins received 23% of the vote and Carter 6%.) King won eight counties, Collins five and Brennan three. King's election as an independent was not unprecedented in Maine politics, as independent James B. Longley had been elected twenty years earlier.\n\nKing won reelection to a second term in 1998 with 59% of the vote. He defeated Republican Jim Longley Jr. (the son of the former governor) (19%) and Democrat Thomas Connolly (12%). King's 59% was the highest a candidate had received since Brennan's 1982 reelection with 62% of the vote. Brennan's 1982 victory was also the last time before 1998 that a gubernatorial candidate had won a majority of the vote, and King's 1998 reelection remains the last time in a Maine gubernatorial election that the winner got a majority.\n\nDuring his tenure, King was the only governor in the United States unaffiliated with any political party. He was also one of only two governors nationwide not affiliated with either of the two major parties, the other being Jesse Ventura of Minnesota, who was elected in 1998 as a member of the Reform Party. The term of Connecticut's independent governor Lowell Weicker ended when King's began. In his book \"Independent Nation\" (2004), political analyst John Avlon describes all three governors as radical centrist thinkers.\n\nIn 2002, King launched the Maine Learning Technology Initiative (MLTI) to provide laptops for every public middle-school student in the state, the first initiative of its kind in the nation. It met with considerable resistance due to its cost but was enacted by the Maine Legislature. On September 5, 2002, the state began the program with a four-year $37.2-million contract with Apple Inc. to equip all 7th- and 8th-grade students and teachers in the state with laptops.\n\nAs governor, King signed legislation requiring that all school employees be fingerprinted and undergo background checks.\n\nThe day after he left office in 2003, King, his wife, Mary Herman, and their two children, who were 12 and 9 at the time, embarked on a road trip in a 40-foot motor home to see America. Over the next six months, the family traveled 15,000 miles and visited 33 states before returning home in June 2003.\n\nDuring his post-gubernatorial residency in Maine, he lectured at Bowdoin College in Brunswick and Bates College in Lewiston. He was appointed a visiting lecturer at Bowdoin in 2004 and an endowed lecturer at Bates in 2009, teaching courses in American politics and political leadership at both institutions. \n\nIn 2007, King and Rob Gardiner, formerly of the Maine Public Broadcasting Network, formed Independence Wind, a wind energy company. In August 2009, Independence Wind along with joint venture partner Wagner Forest Management won Maine DEP approval for construction of a proposed $120-million, 22-turbine, utility-scale wind power project along a prominent mountain ridge in Roxbury, Maine. To avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest, King sold his share of the company after entering the 2012 U.S. Senate election. Of the project, King has said, \"People who say wind is only an intermittent resource are looking for a one-shot solution. And my experience is that there are rarely silver bullets, but there is often silver buckshot. Wind is an adjunct source of energy. Ten percent, 20% can be very significant\".\n\nOn March 5, 2012, King announced that he was running for the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by Olympia Snowe. King said \"hogwash\" to allegations by some Republicans that he had cut a deal with Democrats to keep U.S. Rep. Chellie Pingree out of the race.\n\nKing's Senate campaign came under scrutiny for posting a heavily edited newspaper profile of him to the campaign website.\n\nOn November 6, 2012, King won the Senate race with 53% of the vote, beating Democrat Cynthia Dill and Republican Charlie Summers. The following week, King announced that he would caucus with Senate Democrats, explaining not only that it made more sense to affiliate with the party that had a clear majority, but that he would have been largely excluded from the committee process had he not caucused with a party. King said he had not ruled out caucusing with the Republicans if they took control of the Senate in 2014, but when that happened, he remained in the Democratic caucus.\n\nKing supports reform of the Senate filibuster, noting that senators are no longer required to stand on the floor and speak during a filibuster. He also points out that the Constitution contains no 60-vote requirement to conduct business in the Senate. Accordingly, in 2013 King voted in favor of the so-called nuclear option to eliminate the filibuster for most presidential nominees.\n\nKing opposes attempts by the U.S. House to cut $40 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program over ten years, fearing that it \"would affect people in a serious way\" and drive more people to soup kitchens and food banks. He supports the more modest Senate efforts to save $4 billion over the same period by closing loopholes.\n\nIn 2014 King was chosen for the annual tradition of reading George Washington's Farewell Address to the Senate.\n\nKing endorsed his colleague Susan Collins for reelection in the 2014 U.S. Senate election, calling her a \"model Senator\". At the same time, he endorsed Democratic Senator Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire for reelection. King also endorsed Eliot Cutler for governor in the 2014 election, as he had done in 2010, although on October 29, 2014, he switched his endorsement to Democratic nominee Mike Michaud. He also endorsed Democrat Emily Cain for the Maine's second congressional district election and Republican Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee in his reelection campaign.\n\nAfter Republicans gained the Senate majority in the November 4, 2014 election, King announced that he would continue to caucus with the Democrats. He cited his belief that it is good for a state to have a senator from each party, and that it is important to have a senator who caucuses with the same party as the President, saying, \"In the end, who I caucus with is less important than who I work with.\" He further said, \"It does not mean I have become a Democrat. It does not mean I have made a promise to anybody.\"\n\nIn June 2015, King underwent a successful surgery that removed a cancerous prostate that had been detected in a screening and biopsy. The surgery did not change King's plans to run for reelection in 2018.\n\n\n\nKing has been described as a moderate Independent. He has called himself \"neither a Democrat nor a Republican, but an American\". The nonpartisan \"National Journal\" gave him a 2013 composite ideology score of 59% liberal and 41% conservative. His Crowdpac score is −4.3 (10 is the most conservative, −10 the most liberal), based on a data aggregation of his campaign contributions, votes, and speeches. In a study published by \"The Washington Post\" called \"Party Unity scores,\" King only voted with the Democratic Party 43% of the time. He has also received higher approval ratings from liberal interest groups than conservative ones. King has been rated 89% by the average liberal interest group; the average conservative interest group rates him 14.5%. GovTrack ranks King among the more moderate members of the Senate, near the Senate's ideological center. In 2014, King endorsed his Republican colleague from Maine, Susan Collins. According to FiveThirtyEight, which tracks Congressional votes, King had voted in line with President Trump's position on legislation about 45% of the time as of July 2018.\n\nKing has called for the continuation of a tariff on imported athletic footwear and rejects discussing the potential removal of the tariff in trade talks with Vietnam, citing the potential loss of jobs at New Balance's Skowhegan and Madison factories in Maine. New Balance is the only remaining domestic manufacturer of athletic footwear. Also while governor, King vetoed a bill that would have raised Maine's minimum wage by 25 cents per hour.\n\nIn 2017, King was a strong opponent of the Republican tax bill, criticizing its rushed passage on a party-line vote without hearings, saying: \"The Bangor City Council would not amend the leash law using this process.\" King criticized the legislation for adding $1 trillion to the U.S. budget deficit over ten years and sought to return the bill to committee, but his proposal failed on a party-line vote.\n\nKing has voted to arm Syrian rebels who are fighting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and ISIL militants.\n\nIn 2015, King gave his support to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, an international agreement with Iran. In voting against a \"resolution of disapproval\" in opposition to the agreement, King stated, \"The current alternatives, if this agreement is rejected, are either unrealistic or downright dangerous.\"\n\nKing favors the normalization of U.S.–Cuba relations. He opposes the U.S. embargo against Cuba, calling it an \"antiquated\" relic of the Cold War; in 2015, King introduced legislation to lift the embargo.\n\nAs a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, King is participating in its probe of Russia's interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. King said that the entire committee had \"no doubt whatsoever\" about the Kremlin's culpability in the meddling and described the cyberattacks as \"a frontal assault on our democracy\" that could present a long-term threat.\n\nKing supports action to combat climate change and carries a laminated graph of increases in carbon dioxide in Earth's atmosphere to respond to climate change denialists. King was the only member of Congress to join a three-day U.S. Coast Guard fact-finding mission to Greenland in 2016, where he witnessed melting ice sheets firsthand and said that the impacts of climate change were \"amazing and scary.\"\n\nKing opposes oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, believing the amount of oil is not worth the environmental risk of extracting it. He also believes that new developments in the energy field, such as fracking, should be subject to \"all appropriate environmental safeguards to protect the American people and the American land.\" King is opposed to the Keystone XL pipeline, stating that the \"project will facilitate the transport of some of the world's dirtiest and most climate-harming oil through our country\" and has cast several votes against legislation authorizing its construction. King has said that he is \"frustrated\" with President Obama's delay in deciding whether to authorize construction, but that he opposes Congress legislating the approval or disapproval of a construction project.\n\nKing has expressed opposition to the creation of a Maine Woods National Park, stating on his 2012 campaign website that local control is the best way to conserve land, but in 2014 stating that he was keeping an open mind about the idea.\n\nKing initially expressed \"serious reservations\" about proposals to establish the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument, but expressed support for President Obama's creation of the monument in 2016, saying that the administration had made commitments that convinced him that \"the benefits of the designation will far outweigh any detriment\"; that the monument would not hurt Maine's pulp and paper industry, and that the monument would help diversify the local economy.\n\nKing opposes efforts in Maine to ban the baiting and trapping of bears, including an effort to put the question to voters in 2014, calling such practices necessary to prevent interaction between bears and people, and stating the practices are based on science and the views of experts.\n\nKing strongly criticized President Donald Trump's Executive Order 13769, which barred the admission of refugees to the U.S. and barred travel by nationals of several Muslim-majority countries to the country. King stated: \"This is probably the worst foreign policy decision since the invasion of Iraq. What it's done is played right into ISIS's hands. They want us to turn this into a war of the west against Islam. They have explicitly said they want to drive a wedge ... There are 1.6 billion Muslims in the world and we don't want a war with all of them. We don't need a war with all of them. We're not opposed to all of them.\" King noted that U.S. forces fought alongside Muslim Iraqi troops, and that much valuable counterterrorism intelligence was shared with the U.S. by Muslim nations.\n\nKing supports expanding background checks to most firearms transactions, with exceptions for transfers between family members, calling such a position \"the single most effective step\" that can be taken to keep guns out of the wrong hands. He supports limiting the size of magazines to 10 rounds, and to make purchasing a gun for someone not legally allowed to have one a federal crime. He does not support a ban on assault weapons, believing it will not work and that such a ban is not based on the functionality of the weapons, which are not relevantly different from the many hunting rifles owned by Maine residents. He noted that the vast majority of gun crimes are committed with handguns, not rifles.\n\nKing voted for the Manchin–Toomey amendment to expand background checks for gun purchases.\n\nKing supports the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA or Obamacare), but has expressed support for modest adjustments to the legislation if they can be done on a bipartisan basis. In 2013, King voted to restore funding for the ACA as part of an amendment to legislation that funded government operations for 45 days. He has said that those opposed to the ACA who are attempting to discourage people from purchasing health insurance are \"guilty of murder\" and that doing so was \"one of the grossest violations of our humanity that I could think of.\" In making this comment, King noted a time in his life when he believed he would have died had he not just acquired health insurance.\n\nIn January 2017, King voted against the Republican Senate budget plan to accelerate repeal of the ACA and block repeal legislation from being filibustered; the measure passed on a party line 51-48 vote. He spoke out against the House Republican repeal legislation, noting that the Congressional Budget Office estimated that 14 million Americans would lose health insurance if the legislation were enacted. King stated that the House Republican bill, \"If you were designing a bill to hammer my state, it would be this bill,\" saying that it would most adversely affect Maine residents between the ages of 50–65.\n\nKing is a supporter of the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) program.\n\nKing favors abortion rights.\n\nKing criticized Trump's 2017 budget proposal for its cuts to medical research. In 2018, King voted with all Republicans except Rand Paul and six other Democrats to confirm Alex Azar, Trump's nominee for Health Secretary.\n\nKing has voted against Republican attempts to completely defund Planned Parenthood, calling the proposals an \"unfounded yet relentless assault\" and \"another example of misguided outrage that would only hurt those who need help the most.\" No federal funds go to Planned Parenthood for abortions (federal dollars pay for other health care services provided by the group, such as contraception and screenings for cancer and sexually transmitted diseases), but Republicans have sought to completely defund the organization because it provides abortions with other funds. King stated that supporters of the bill were in effect voting to deprive low-income Americans of healthcare over an issue \"that has nothing to do with the 97 percent of the services that Planned Parenthood provides,\" saying: \"To me, this bill is like attacking Brazil after Pearl Harbor.\"\n\nKing supports same-sex marriage. He signed an amicus brief to the U.S. Supreme Court in \"United States v. Windsor\" encouraging it to strike down the Defense of Marriage Act.\n\nKing's first wife was Edie Birney. She is the mother of King's oldest son, Angus Stanley King III. King and Birney divorced in 1982.\n\nIn 1984, King married Mary Herman, his current wife. King has five children and six grandchildren.\n\nKing is an Episcopalian. He rides a Harley-Davidson motorcycle.\n\n"}
{"id": "10996073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10996073", "title": "Arachidonic acid 5-hydroperoxide", "text": "Arachidonic acid 5-hydroperoxide\n\nArachidonic acid 5-hydroperoxide (5-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid, 5-HPETE) is an intermediate in the metabolism of arachidonic acid by the ALOX5 enzyme in humans or Alox5 enzyme in other mammals. The intermediate is then further metabolized to: a) leukotriene A4 which is then metabolized to the chemotactic factor for leukocytes, leukotriene B4, or to contractors of lung airways, leukotriene C4, leukotriene D4, and leukotriene E4; b) the leukocyte chemotactic factors, 5-Hydroxyicosatetraenoic acid and 5-oxo-eicosatetraenoic acid; or c) the specialized pro-resolving mediators of inflammation, lipoxin A4 and lipoxin B4.\n"}
{"id": "1908821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908821", "title": "Architectural Woodwork Institute", "text": "Architectural Woodwork Institute\n\nThe Architectural Woodwork Institute (AWI), founded in 1953, is a professional trade association. Member companies are the fabricators of fine finished woodwork, millwork, and furniture. AWI has published a Standard of Care for woodworking since 1961, called the Quality Standards Illustrated.\n\nThe association is built on the idea of sharing knowledge in many forms – formal programs, seminars and workshops, networking, committee involvement and publications.\n\nAWI and its members is devoted to fostering professionalism throughout the industry. Each member firm today garners prestige through the AWI logo, Quality Standards, Quality Certification Program, Design Solutions and other important technical publications.\n\nAWI Chapters are integral to networking opportunities, sharing of resources, and overall association operations. Chapters are the bedrock upon which the association operates. The chapter structure provides influence, information and a united front on local levels, bringing a common voice to the national organization on important industry issues. Chapters also provide the opportunity to conduct grassroots educational programs for woodworkers and the design community. They bring together woodworkers in a local area, giving them the opportunity to share ideas and information specific to their region.\n\nThe AWI is not related to the Woodworkers Institute website in any way.\n\nSince its beginning as the \"Millwork Cost Bureau\", the Architectural Woodwork Institute has evolved into a respected organization. A small group gathered in Chicago on December 12, 1952 to determine if new life could be infused into the existing organization, or whether a new, more dynamic association should be formed to represent the expanding core of special millwork operators. Their first meeting set in motion a series of gatherings that would lead them down a new path. One month later, in January 1953, Charles Rinehimer, president of Rinehimer Bros. Mfg. Company, Elgin, Illinois, met with Ormie Lance, manager of the National Woodwork Manufacturers Association representing the 31 stock millwork plants in the United States. The conversation drifted in the direction of conducting a national meeting of custom millworkers, with the suggestion of running the idea past a trade association management firm. On October 15, 1953, Chairman Rinehimer welcomed 176 representatives of 109 architectural woodwork companies from the United States and Canada, 10 suppliers, representatives from 11 interested trade associations and 9 guest speakers to the opening session of a two-day convention at the Congress Hotel in Chicago. Concluding the discussions and the recommendation of the Development Committee, a motion was unanimously affirmed, creating the Architectural Woodwork Institute. After the convention adjourned, the newly elected directors met to select the first slate of officers: Rinehimer as president, Claude Twiellenmeier as first vice president, Charles Fischer as second vice president, William Otis as third vice president, and Elmer Root as treasurer. After the officers were selected, Robert Hoe, Jr., the director from Poughkeepsie, handed the new treasurer his company check for the first year’s dues, and the Architectural Woodwork Institute was on its way. Shortly thereafter, AWI was incorporated as a non-profit organization under the laws of the state of Illinois. Articles of Incorporation were recorded on December 17, 1954.\n\nChairman Rinehimer helped to form regional chapters throughout the country. Membership in AWI increased as a result and a dual membership package for AWI and MCB was developed. Cost Book A was revised with plans set in motion to form an upgraded estimators correspondence course. AWI is a hands-on organization, governed by a member board, slate of officers and a set of bylaws. An industry association run by members, AWI programs and policies are developed and monitored by committees, and administered by an executive director and a national headquarters staff.\n\nElected officers are the primary governing body of the organization. The president accepts the gavel for a one-year term following several years of service in board and vice president slots.\n\nIn the late 1990s a management consulting group was enlisted to study the Institute’s governance structure. A member task force was appointed to work with the consulting team and together they studied and evaluated board design, nomination processes, committee structure and roles and responsibilities. At first the task force’s recommendations were rejected by the board, requiring further study and discussion, and then approved in the spring of 2001, reducing the size of the board to eleven members, eliminating the Executive Committee, and establishing a Development Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3645805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3645805", "title": "B205", "text": "B205\n\nB205 is the name of the Magnox nuclear reprocessing plant at Sellafield in northern England. This plant uses PUREX chemistry (based on tributyl phosphate (TBP)) to extract plutonium and uranium from used nuclear fuel. The plant was originally constructed and operated by the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA), but in 1971 control was transferred to British Nuclear Fuels Limited (BNFL).\n\nB205 was commissioned in 1964 as a replacement for the UK's first nuclear reprocessing plant, B204, which was converted into a pre-handling plant for B205 and recommissioned in 1969. In 1973, after both plants had been shut down for one year for repairs, a violent reaction in the B204 plant occurred which contaminated the entire plant and 34 workers with ruthenium-106. Following this event the B204 plant was permanently decommissioned. A similar ruthenium oxidation and sublimation reaction occurred in 2017 in the Mayak reprocessing facility in southern Russia.\n\nOver its lifetime, the B205 plant has handled over 35,000 tons of expended Magnox fuel, and returned over 15,000 tons of uranium to the fuel cycle. Now that the Magnox reactors have been retired from use, the final fuels are being processed, and the B205 plant is slated for decommissioning around 2020 after all fuel has been reprocessed.\n\nThe process uses mixer settlers as the basis of the plant operation. The Magnox fuel is dissolved in nitric acid within the Dissolver Cell. The aqueous stream is conditioned to the correct temperature and acidity and then passes to the first mixer settler system where fission products are separated from the uranium (U) and plutonium (Pu) by extraction of the U/Pu into the solvent phase comprising tri-butyl-phosphate in odourless kerosene. This has the effect of reducing the radiation levels in subsequent stages of the process and the resulting degradation of the solvents.\n\nThe solvent stream of U, Pu and remaining fission products then passes to the critical mixer settler stages where the U and Pu are transferred into the aqueous phase and fission products remains in the aqueous phase. Separation of the U and Pu is achieved by adding a reductant, which causes the Pu, but not the U, to transfer into the solvent phase. Once separated, further removal of fission products is undertaken by more mixer settler units.\n\nThe U and Pu streams are then passed to evaporators to concentrate the U and PU before further processing in other plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "57265206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57265206", "title": "Baynouna Solar Power Plant", "text": "Baynouna Solar Power Plant\n\nBaynouna Solar Power Plant is an under-construction 200 MW photovoltaic power station in Amman, Jordan. Construction began in late 2017, slated to be open by the first quarter of 2019. The plant will produce 3% of Jordan's total electrical energy production, with the project costing around $260 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "34265685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34265685", "title": "Becquerelite", "text": "Becquerelite\n\nBecquerelite is a uranium mineral with the chemical formula: Ca(UO)O(OH)·8(HO). It is a secondary mineral which contains calcium and is a bright yellow colour. It has a Mohs hardness of about 2.\n\nIt was named after the French physicist Antoine Henri Becquerel (1852–1908), who discovered radioactivity in 1896. Becquerelite contains about 70% uranium by weight.\n\nIt is mainly mined in Kasolo of the former Zaire, in the present day Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n"}
{"id": "11905141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11905141", "title": "Caesium cadmium chloride", "text": "Caesium cadmium chloride\n\nCaesium cadmium chloride (CsCdCl) is a synthetic crystalline material. It belongs to the AMX group (where A=alkali metal, M=bivalent metal, X=halogen ions). It crystallizes in a hexagonal space group \"P6/\"mmc with unit cell lengths \"a\" = 7.403 Å and \"c\" = 18.406 Å, with one cadmium ion having \"D\" symmetry and the other having \"C\" symmetry.\n\nIt is formed when an aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid containing an equimolar solution of caesium chloride and cadmium chloride.\n"}
{"id": "10230387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10230387", "title": "Canadian Renewable Fuels Association", "text": "Canadian Renewable Fuels Association\n\nThe Canadian Renewable Fuels Association (CRFA) is a non-profit organization in Canada, created in 1984. In 2016, CRFA re-launched under the name Renewable Industries Canada (RICanada). The change reinforced the 32 year-old non-profit association's mission to promote the use of value-added products made from renewable resources. RICanada represents the interests of over 30 member companies, and is Canada's leading voice in promoting the role of renewable fuels and value added products in reducing GHG emissions.\n\nIts stated purpose is to \"To promote the use of value-added products made from renewable resources through consumer awareness and government liaison activities.\"\n\nRICanada is currently led by an Executive Director and reports to a Board of Directors after being previously led by a number of dedicated Presidents. Past Presidents include Andrea Kent (2014-2017), W. Scott Thurlow (2012-2014), and Gordon Quaiattini (2007-2014). Before 2007, RICanada was led by Kory Teneycke, a former activist with the Reform Party of Canada, and a veteran of the Conservative Party of Canada's war room for the 2006 federal election. At the time, one of the CRFA's registered lobbyists is Ken Boessenkool, a confidant of Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper.\n\nIn 2017, RICanada launched a public awareness campaign on the environmental and economic benefits of biofuels mandates. Dubbed 'Facts Don't Lie', the campaign was designed to educate the public on the role of biofuels in reducing carbon emissions from transportation. The underlying message of the campaign was a call to the federal government to increase mandates for renewable content in fuels. \"RICanada Launches Ad Campaign to Promote Biofuels\" Facts included:\n\n• Ethanol can reduce GHGs by 62 per cent compared to gasoline.\n\n• Biodiesel can reduce GHGs by over 100 per cent compared to diesel.\n\n• Canada's biofuels mandates reduce annual GHG emissions to the same extent as taking one million cars off the road.\n\n• Each year, Canada's biofuels mandate removes as much C02 from the atmosphere as 21 million trees.\n\n• Increasing the federal biofuels mandate could add 31,000 jobs and $5.6 billion to Canada's economy.\n\n• Canada was once a world leader in implementing renewable fuel requirements. Today, over 40 countries require higher levels of biofuel blends in transportation fuels than Canada.\n\nIn 2007, the CRFA ran television advertisements promoting a Conservative Party pledge on renewable fuels, and the 5% renewable fuel standard in all transportation fuels in Canada. The advertisements featured images of Stephen Harper, as well as an interview with Conservative candidate Peter Kent. The policy itself has broad political support: the Liberal Party of Canada also supports a 5% renewable fuels standard, and former Saskatchewan NDP Premier Lorne Calvert promoted a 10% biofuels mandate.\n\n"}
{"id": "23856318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23856318", "title": "Cooperative Research Centre for Advanced Composite Structures", "text": "Cooperative Research Centre for Advanced Composite Structures\n\nThe Cooperative Research Centre for Advanced Composite Structures (CRC-ACS) is a research organisation partially funded by Australia's Cooperative Research Centre Program (CRC). CRC-ACS has been at the forefront of Australian research efforts into advanced composite materials/structures since its inception in 1991. The purpose of the Composites CRC is to bring together research providers and businesses using composite materials to provide competitive technology for the Australian industry. CRC-ACS conducts core research activities considering advanced composite manufacturing and design with associated program members along with a large portfolio of commercial activities with local and international companies. CRC-ACS has forged a spin-off company, ACS Australia which now employs the core staff contributing to the CRC-ACS research program.\n\nThe organisation has offices in three cities on the east side of Australia, which are provided by Australian companies as contributions to the program:\n\n\nThe core research activities are broken down into research programs which are undertaken in collaboration with both core and supporting participants. Each program relies upon collaborative research efforts between CRC-ACS, local and international universities and businesses invested in composite materials.\n\nCRC-ACS has produced a number of commercialised technologies that have been developed from conception to finished article.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52265423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52265423", "title": "Dropwise condensation", "text": "Dropwise condensation\n\nIn dropwise condensation the condensate liquid collects in the form of countless droplets of varying diameters on the condensing surface, instead of forming a continuous film, and does not wet the solid cooling surface. The droplets develop at points of surface imperfections (pit, scratch), called nucleation sites, and grow in size as more vapour condenses on its exposed surface. When the size of droplets is large there comes a time the droplet breakaway from the surface and knock off other droplets and carries it downstream. The moving droplet devours the droplets of smaller size. Dropwise condensation is one of the most effective mechanism of heat transfer and extremely large heat transfer coefficients can be achieved with this mechanism. In dropwise condensation, there is no liquid film to resist heat transfer, and as a result heat transfer coefficients can be achieved more than 10 times larger than those associated with film condensation, although 3-5 times is more common. Heat transfer coefficients are large so designers can achieve a specified heat transfer rate with a smaller surface area and thus a smaller and less expensive condenser.\n\nDropwise condensation is achieved by adding a promoter chemical into the vapor, and/or roughened surfaces and surface and surface coated with hydrophobic impurities like fatty acids and organic compounds, known as dropwise promoters. Dropwise condensation is provoked artificially with the help of silicons, teflons, assortment of waxes, and fatty acids. These promoters are used to promote dropwise condensation but most promoters are highly unstable and lose their effectiveness with time due to oxidation, fouling and removal of the promoter from the surface. Dropwise condensation can be sustained for a long time by the combined effects of surface coating and periodic injection of the promoter into the vapor. When dropwise surfaces degrade, they convert to filmwise condensation. So most condensers are designed on the assumption that film condensation will take place on the surface eventually. Dropwise condensation is useful in powerplant heat exchangers, thermal desalination, self-cleaning surfaces, and heating and air conditioning. \n\nThe total amount of heat transfer through a single droplet is a function of its radius and the size distribution over the condensation surface. The important factors which are involved in the mechanism of heat transfer through a single droplets are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23473596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23473596", "title": "Electron wake", "text": "Electron wake\n\nElectron wake is the disturbance left after a high-energy charged particle passes\nthrough condensed matter or plasma. Ions passing through can introduce periodic oscillations in the crystal lattice or plasma wave with the characteristic frequency of the crystal or plasma frequency. Interactions of the field created by these oscillations with the charged particle field alternate from constructive interference to destructive interference, producing alternating waves of electric field and displacement. The frequency of the wake field is determined by the nature of the penetrated matter, and the period of the wake field is directly proportional to the speed of the incoming charged particle. The amplitude of the first wake wave is the most important, as it produces a braking force on the charged particle, eventually slowing it down. Wake fields also can capture and guide lightweight ions or positrons in the direction perpendicular to the wake. The larger the speed of the original charged particle, the larger the angle between the initial particle's velocity and the captured ion's velocity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "944339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944339", "title": "Fibre-reinforced plastic", "text": "Fibre-reinforced plastic\n\nFibre-reinforced plastic (FRP) (also called fiber-reinforced polymer, or fiber-reinforced plastic) is a composite material made of a polymer matrix reinforced with fibres. The fibres are usually glass (in fibreglass), carbon (in carbon-fiber-reinforced polymer), aramid, or basalt. Rarely, other fibres such as paper, wood, or asbestos have been used. The polymer is usually an epoxy, vinylester, or polyester thermosetting plastic, though phenol formaldehyde resins are still in use.\n\nFRPs are commonly used in the aerospace, automotive, marine, and construction industries. They are commonly found in ballistic armor as well.\n\nA polymer is generally manufactured by step-growth polymerization or addition polymerization. When combined with various agents to enhance or in any way alter the material properties of polymers, the result is referred to as a plastic. Composite plastics refers to those types of plastics that result from bonding two or more homogeneous materials with different material properties to derive a final product with certain desired material and mechanical properties. Fibre-reinforced plastics are a category of composite plastics that specifically use fibre materials to mechanically enhance the strength and elasticity of plastics.\n\nThe original plastic material without fibre reinforcement is known as the matrix or binding agent. The matrix is a tough but relatively weak plastic that is reinforced by stronger stiffer reinforcing filaments or fibres. The extent that strength and elasticity are enhanced in a fibre-reinforced plastic depends on the mechanical properties of both the fibre and matrix, their volume relative to one another, and the fibre length and orientation within the matrix. Reinforcement of the matrix occurs by definition when the FRP material exhibits increased strength or elasticity relative to the strength and elasticity of the matrix alone.\n\nBakelite was the first fibre-reinforced plastic. Leo Baekeland had originally set out to find a replacement for shellac (made from the excretion of lac beetles). Chemists had begun to recognize that many natural resins and fibres were polymers, and Baekeland investigated the reactions of phenol and formaldehyde. He first produced a soluble phenol-formaldehyde shellac called \"Novolak\" that never became a market success, then turned to developing a binder for asbestos which, at that time, was moulded with rubber. By controlling the pressure and temperature applied to phenol and formaldehyde, he found in 1905 he could produce his dreamed-of hard mouldable material (the world's first synthetic plastic): bakelite. \nHe announced his invention at a meeting of the American Chemical Society on February 5, 1909.\n\nThe development of fibre-reinforced plastic for commercial use was being extensively researched in the 1930s. In the UK, considerable research was undertaken by pioneers such as Norman de Bruyne. It was particularly of interest to the aviation industry.\n\nMass production of glass strands was discovered in 1932 when Games Slayter, a researcher at Owens-Illinois accidentally directed a jet of compressed air at a stream of molten glass and produced fibres. A patent for this method of producing glass wool was first applied for in 1933.\nOwens joined with the Corning company in 1935 and the method was adapted by Owens Corning to produce its patented \"fibreglas\" (one \"s\") in 1936. Originally, fibreglas was a glass wool with fibres entrapping a great deal of gas, making it useful as an insulator, especially at high temperatures.\n\nA suitable resin for combining the \"fibreglas\" with a plastic to produce a composite material, was developed in 1936 by du Pont. The first ancestor of modern polyester resins is Cyanamid's resin of 1942. Peroxide curing systems were used by then. With the combination of fibreglas and resin the gas content of the material was replaced by plastic. This reduced the insulation properties to values typical of the plastic, but now for the first time the composite showed great strength and promise as a structural and building material. Confusingly, many glass fibre composites continued to be called \"fibreglass\" (as a generic name) and the name was also used for the low-density glass wool product containing gas instead of plastic.\n\nRay Greene of Owens Corning is credited with producing the first composite boat in 1937, but did not proceed further at the time due to the brittle nature of the plastic used. In 1939 Russia was reported to have constructed a passenger boat of plastic materials, and the United States a fuselage and wings of an aircraft. The first car to have a fibre-glass body was the 1946 Stout Scarab. Only one of this model was built. The Ford prototype of 1941 could have been the first plastic car, but there is some uncertainty around the materials used as it was destroyed shortly afterwards.\nThe first fibre-reinforced plastic plane was either the Fairchild F-46, first flown on 12 May 1937, or the Californian built Bennett Plastic Plane. A fibreglass fuselage was used on a modified Vultee BT-13A designated the XBT-16 based at Wright Field in late 1942. In 1943, further experiments were undertaken building structural aircraft parts from composite materials resulting in the first plane, a Vultee BT-15, with a GFRP fuselage, designated the XBT-19, being flown in 1944. A significant development in the tooling for GFRP components had been made by Republic Aviation Corporation in 1943.\n\nCarbon fibre production began in the late 1950s and was used, though not widely, in British industry beginning in the early 1960s. Aramid fibres were being produced around this time also, appearing first under the trade name Nomex by DuPont. Today, each of these fibres is used widely in industry for any applications that require plastics with specific strength or elastic qualities. Glass fibres are the most common across all industries, although carbon-fibre and carbon-fibre-aramid composites are widely found in aerospace, automotive and sporting good applications. These three (glass, carbon, and aramid) continue to be the important categories of fibre used in FRP.\n\nGlobal polymer production on the scale present today began in the mid 20th century, when low material and productions costs, new production technologies and new product categories combined to make polymer production economical. The industry finally matured in the late 1970s when world polymer production surpassed that of steel, making polymers the ubiquitous material that they are today. Fibre-reinforced plastics have been a significant aspect of this industry from the beginning.\n\nFRP involves two distinct processes, the first is the process whereby the fibrous material is manufactured and formed, the second is the process whereby fibrous materials are bonded with the matrix during moulding.\n\nReinforcing Fibre is manufactured in both two-dimensional and three-dimensional orientations:\n\nFibre preforms are how the fibres are manufactured before being bonded to the matrix. Fibre preforms are often manufactured in sheets, continuous mats, or as continuous filaments for spray applications. The four major ways to manufacture the fibre preform is through the textile processing techniques of weaving, knitting, braiding and stitching.\n\n\nA rigid structure is usually used to establish the shape of FRP components. Parts can be laid up on a flat surface referred to as a \"caul plate\" or on a cylindrical structure referred to as a \"mandrel\". However, most fibre-reinforced plastic parts are created with a mold or \"tool.\" Molds can be concave female molds, male molds, or the mold can completely enclose the part with a top and bottom mold.\n\nThe moulding processes of FRP plastics begins by placing the fibre preform on or in the mold. The fibre preform can be dry fibre, or fibre that already contains a measured amount of resin called \"prepreg\". Dry fibres are \"wetted\" with resin either by hand or the resin is injected into a closed mold. The part is then cured, leaving the matrix and fibres in the shape created by the mold. Heat and/or pressure are sometimes used to cure the resin and improve the quality of the final part.\nThe different methods of forming are listed below.\n\nIndividual sheets of prepreg material are laid up and placed in a female-style mould along with a balloon-like bladder. The mould is closed and placed in a heated press. Finally, the bladder is pressurized forcing the layers of material against the mould walls.\n\nWhen the raw material (plastic block,rubber block, plastic sheet, or granules) contains reinforcing fibres, a compression molded part qualifies as a fibre-reinforced plastic. More typically the plastic preform used in compression molding does not contain reinforcing fibres. In compression molding, a \"preform\" or \"charge\", of SMC, BMC is placed into mould cavity. The mould is closed and the material is formed & cured inside by pressure and heat. Compression moulding offers excellent detailing for geometric shapes ranging from pattern and relief detailing to complex curves and creative forms, to precision engineering all within a maximum curing time of 20 minutes.\n\nIndividual sheets of prepreg material are laid-up and placed in an open mold. The material is covered with release film, bleeder/breather material and a vacuum bag. A vacuum is pulled on part and the entire mould is placed into an autoclave (heated pressure vessel). The part is cured with a continuous vacuum to extract entrapped gasses from laminate. This is a very common process in the aerospace industry because it affords precise control over moulding due to a long, slow cure cycle that is anywhere from one to several hours. This precise control creates the exact laminate geometric forms needed to ensure strength and safety in the aerospace industry, but it is also slow and labour-intensive, meaning costs often confine it to the aerospace industry.\n\nSheets of prepreg material are wrapped around a steel or aluminium mandrel. The prepreg material is compacted by nylon or polypropylene cello tape. Parts are typically batch cured by vacuum bagging and hanging in an oven. After cure, the cello and mandrel are removed leaving a hollow carbon tube. This process creates strong and robust hollow carbon tubes.\n\nWet layup forming combines fibre reinforcement and the matrix as they are placed on the forming tool. Reinforcing Fibre layers are placed in an open mould and then saturated with a wet resin by pouring it over the fabric and working it into the fabric. The mould is then left so that the resin will cure, usually at room temperature, though heat is sometimes used to ensure a proper cure. Sometimes a vacuum bag is used to compress a wet layup. Glass fibres are most commonly used for this process, the results are widely known as fibreglass, and is used to make common products like skis, canoes, kayaks and surf boards.\n\nContinuous strands of fibreglass are pushed through a hand-held gun that both chops the strands and combines them with a catalysed resin such as polyester. The impregnated chopped glass is shot onto the mould surface in whatever thickness and design the human operator thinks is appropriate. This process is good for large production runs at economical cost, but produces geometric shapes with less strength than other moulding processes and has poor dimensional tolerance.\n\nMachines pull fibre bundles through a wet bath of resin and wound over a rotating steel mandrel in specific orientations Parts are cured either room temperature or elevated temperatures. Mandrel is extracted, leaving a final geometric shape but can be left in some cases.\n\nFibre bundles and slit fabrics are pulled through a wet bath of resin and formed into the rough part shape. Saturated material is extruded from a heated closed die curing while being continuously pulled through die. Some of the end products of pultrusion are structural shapes, i.e. I beam, angle, channel and flat sheet. These materials can be used to create all sorts of fibreglass structures such as ladders, platforms, handrail systems tank, pipe and pump supports.\n\nAlso called resin infusion. Fabrics are placed into a mould into which wet resin is then injected. Resin is typically pressurized and forced into a cavity which is under vacuum in resin transfer molding. Resin is entirely pulled into cavity under vacuum in vacuum-assisted resin transfer molding. This moulding process allows precise tolerances and detailed shaping, but can sometimes fail to fully saturate the fabric leading to weak spots in the final shape.\n\nFRP allows the alignment of the glass fibres of thermoplastics to suit specific design programs. Specifying the orientation of reinforcing fibres can increase the strength and resistance to deformation of the polymer. Glass reinforced polymers are strongest and most resistive to deforming forces when the polymers fibres are parallel to the force being exerted, and are weakest when the fibres are perpendicular. Thus, this ability is at once both an advantage or a limitation depending on the context of use. Weak spots of perpendicular fibres can be used for natural hinges and connections, but can also lead to material failure when production processes fail to properly orient the fibres parallel to expected forces. When forces are exerted perpendicular to the orientation of fibres, the strength and elasticity of the polymer is less than the matrix alone. In cast resin components made of glass reinforced polymers such as UP and EP, the orientation of fibres can be oriented in two-dimensional and three-dimensional weaves. This means that when forces are possibly perpendicular to one orientation, they are parallel to another orientation; this eliminates the potential for weak spots in the polymer.\n\nStructural failure can occur in FRP materials when:\n\nA thermoset polymer matrix material, or engineering grade thermoplastic polymer matrix material, must meet certain requirements in order to first be suitable for FRPs and ensure a successful reinforcement of itself. The matrix must be able to properly saturate, and preferably bond chemically with the fibre reinforcement for maximum adhesion within a suitable curing period. The matrix must also completely envelop the fibres to protect them from cuts and notches that would reduce their strength, and to transfer forces to the fibres. The fibres must also be kept separate from each other so that if failure occurs it is localized as much as possible, and if failure occurs the matrix must also debond from the fibre for similar reasons. Finally, the matrix should be of a plastic that remains chemically and physically stable during and after the reinforcement and moulding processes. To be suitable as reinforcement material, fibre additives must increase the tensile strength and modulus of elasticity of the matrix and meet the following conditions; fibres must exceed critical fibre content; the strength and rigidity of fibres itself must exceed the strength and rigidity of the matrix alone; and there must be optimum bonding between fibres and matrix\n\n\"Fibreglass reinforced plastics\" or FRPs (commonly referred to simply as fibreglass) use textile grade glass fibres. These textile fibres are different from other forms of glass fibres used to deliberately trap air, for insulating applications (see glass wool). Textile glass fibres begin as varying combinations of SiO, AlO, BO, CaO, or MgO in powder form. These mixtures are then heated through direct melting to temperatures around 1300 degrees Celsius, after which dies are used to extrude filaments of glass fibre in diameter ranging from 9 to 17 µm. These filaments are then wound into larger threads and spun onto bobbins for transportation and further processing. Glass fibre is by far the most popular means to reinforce plastic and thus enjoys a wealth of production processes, some of which are applicable to aramid and carbon fibres as well owing to their shared fibrous qualities.\n\nRoving is a process where filaments are spun into larger diameter threads. These threads are then commonly used for woven reinforcing glass fabrics and mats, and in spray applications.\n\nFibre fabrics are web-form fabric reinforcing material that has both warp and weft directions. Fibre mats are web-form non-woven mats of glass fibres. Mats are manufactured in cut dimensions with chopped fibres, or in continuous mats using continuous fibres. Chopped fibre glass is used in processes where lengths of glass threads are cut between 3 and 26 mm, threads are then used in plastics most commonly intended for moulding processes. Glass fibre short strands are short 0.2–0.3 mm strands of glass fibres that are used to reinforce thermoplastics most commonly for injection moulding.\n\nCarbon fibres are created when polyacrylonitrile fibres (PAN), Pitch resins, or Rayon are carbonized (through oxidation and thermal pyrolysis) at high temperatures. Through further processes of graphitizing or stretching, the fibres strength or elasticity can be enhanced respectively. Carbon fibres are manufactured in diameters analogous to glass fibres with diameters ranging from 4 to 17 µm. These fibres wound into larger threads for transportation and further production processes. Further production processes include weaving or braiding into carbon fabrics, cloths and mats analogous to those described for glass that can then be used in actual reinforcements.\n\nAramid fibres are most commonly known as Kevlar, Nomex and Technora. Aramids are generally prepared by the reaction between an amine group and a carboxylic acid halide group (aramid);. Commonly, this occurs when an aromatic polyamide is spun from a liquid concentration of sulphuric acid into a crystallized fibre. Fibres are then spun into larger threads in order to weave into large ropes or woven fabrics (Aramid). Aramid fibres are manufactured with varying grades to based on varying qualities for strength and rigidity, so that the material can be somewhat tailored to specific design needs concerns, such as cutting the tough material during manufacture.\n\nFibre-reinforced plastics are best suited for any design program that demands weight savings, precision engineering, finite tolerances, and the simplification of parts in both production and operation. A moulded polymer artefact is cheaper, faster, and easier to manufacture than cast aluminium or steel artefact, and maintains similar and sometimes better tolerances and material strengths.\n\nRudder of Airbus A310 \n\nEngine intake manifolds are made from glass-fibre-reinforced PA 66.\n\nAutomotive gas and clutch pedals made from glass-fibre-reinforced PA 66 (DWP 12–13)\n\nAluminium windows, doors and facades get thermally insulated by using thermal insulation plastics made of glass fibre reinforced polyamide. In 1977 Ensinger GmbH produced first insulation profile for window systems.\n\nFRP can be applied to strengthen the beams, columns, and slabs of buildings and bridges. It is possible to increase the strength of structural members even after they have been severely damaged due to loading conditions. In the case of damaged reinforced concrete members, this would first require the repair of the member by removing loose debris and filling in cavities and cracks with mortar or epoxy resin. Once the member is repaired, strengthening can be achieved through wet, hand lay-up of impregnating the fibre sheets with epoxy resin then applying them to the cleaned and prepared surfaces of the member.\n\nTwo techniques are typically adopted for the strengthening of beams, relating to the strength enhancement desired: flexural strengthening or shear strengthening. In many cases it may be necessary to provide both strength enhancements. For the flexural strengthening of a beam, FRP sheets or plates are applied to the tension face of the member (the bottom face for a simply supported member with applied top loading or gravity loading). Principal tensile fibres are oriented in the beam longitudinal axis, similar to its internal flexural steel reinforcement. This increases the beam strength and its stiffness (load required to cause unit deflection), however decreases the deflection capacity and ductility.\n\nFor the shear strengthening of a beam, the FRP is applied on the web (sides) of a member with fibres oriented transverse to the beam's longitudinal axis. Resisting of shear forces is achieved in a similar manner as internal steel stirrups, by bridging shear cracks that form under applied loading. FRP can be applied in several configurations, depending on the exposed faces of the member and the degree of strengthening desired, this includes: side bonding, U-wraps (U-jackets), and closed wraps (complete wraps). Side bonding involves applying FRP to the sides of the beam only. It provides the least amount of shear strengthening due to failures caused by de-bonding from the concrete surface at the FRP free edges. For U-wraps, the FRP is applied continuously in a 'U' shape around the sides and bottom (tension) face of the beam. If all faces of a beam are accessible, the use of closed wraps is desirable as they provide the most strength enhancement. Closed wrapping involves applying FRP around the entire perimeter of the member, such that there are no free ends and the typical failure mode is rupture of the fibres. For all wrap configurations, the FRP can be applied along the length of the member as a continuous sheet or as discrete strips, having a predefined minimum width and spacing.\n\nSlabs may be strengthened by applying FRP strips at their bottom (tension) face. This will result in better flexural performance, since the tensile resistance of the slabs is supplemented by the tensile strength of FRP. In the case of beams and slabs, the effectiveness of FRP strengthening depends on the performance of the resin chosen for bonding. This is particularly an issue for shear strengthening using side bonding or U-wraps. Columns are typically wrapped with FRP around their perimeter, as with closed or complete wrapping. This not only results in higher shear resistance, but more crucial for column design, it results in increased compressive strength under axial loading. The FRP wrap works by restraining the lateral expansion of the column, which can enhance confinement in a similar manner as spiral reinforcement does for the column core.\n\nIn June 2013, KONE elevator company announced Ultrarope for use as a replacement for steel cables in elevators. It seals the carbon fibres in high-friction polymer. Unlike steel cable, Ultrarope was designed for buildings that require up to 1,000 meters of lift. Steel elevators top out at 500 meters. The company estimated that in a 500-meter-high building, an elevator would use 15 per cent less electrical power than a steel-cabled version. As of June 2013, the product had passed all European Union and US certification tests.\n\nFRP is used in designs that require a measure of strength or modulus of elasticity that non-reinforced plastics and other material choices are either ill-suited for mechanically or economically. This means that the primary design consideration for using FRP is to ensure that the material is used economically and in a manner that takes advantage of its structural enhancements specifically. This is however not always the case, the orientation of fibres also creates a material weakness perpendicular to the fibres. Thus the use of fibre reinforcement and their orientation affects the strength, rigidity, and elasticity of a final form and hence the operation of the final product itself. Orienting the direction of fibres either, unidirectional, 2-dimensionally, or 3-dimensionally during production affects the degree of strength, flexibility, and elasticity of the final product. Fibres oriented in the direction of forces display greater resistance to distortion from these forces and vice versa, thus areas of a product that must withstand forces will be reinforced with fibres in the same direction, and areas that require flexibility, such as natural hinges, will use fibres in a perpendicular direction to forces.\n\nUsing more dimensions avoids this either-or scenario and creates objects that seek to avoid any specific weak points due to the unidirectional orientation of fibres. The properties of strength, flexibility and elasticity can also be magnified or diminished through the geometric shape and design of the final product. These include such design consideration such as ensuring proper wall thickness and creating multifunctional geometric shapes that can be moulding as single pieces, creating shapes that have more material and structural integrity by reducing joints, connections, and hardware.\n\nAs a subset of plastic FR plastics are liable to a number of the issues and concerns in plastic waste disposal and recycling. Plastics pose a particular challenge in recycling because they are derived from polymers and monomers that often cannot be separated and returned to their virgin states, for this reason not all plastics can be recycled for re-use, in fact some estimates claim only 20% to 30% of plastics can be recycled at all. Fibre-reinforced plastics and their matrices share these disposal and environmental concerns. Investigation of safe disposal methods has led to two main variations involving the application of intense heat: in one binding agents are burned off - in the process recapturing some of the sunk material cost in the form of heat - and incombustible elements captured by filtration; in the other the incombustible material is burned in a cement kiln, the fibres becoming an integral part of the resulting cast material. In addition to concerns regarding safe disposal the fact that the fibres themselves are difficult to remove from the matrix and preserve for re-use means FRP's amplify these challenges. FRP's are inherently difficult to separate into base materials, that is into fibre and matrix, and the matrix is difficult to separate into usable plastics, polymers, and monomers. These are all concerns for environmentally-informed design today. Plastics do often offer savings in energy and economic savings in comparison to other materials. In addition, with the advent of new more environmentally friendly matrices such as bioplastics and UV-degradable plastics, FRP will gain environmental sensitivity.\n\n"}
{"id": "969495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=969495", "title": "Ford Ranger (Americas)", "text": "Ford Ranger (Americas)\n\nThe Ford Ranger is a compact pickup truck that was manufactured and marketed by Ford Motor Company from 1983 to 2012 model years for North America. From 1997 to 2011, a version was also manufactured and sold in South America. Introduced to replace the Ford Courier produced in Japan by Mazda, the Ranger had two distinct generations. While introduced a year after the Chevrolet S-10, the Ranger would go on to become the best-selling compact truck in the United States from 1987 to 2004.\n\nOver its production life, the chassis and suspension of the Ranger would be used for several compact Ford trucks and sport-utility vehicles. During the 1990s and 2000s, Mazda adopted a badge-engineered version of the Ranger, for their B-Series nameplate (the reverse of the Ford Courier produced by Mazda).\n\nOver its 29-year production run, Ford produced the Ranger at three different assembly plants in North America. The Ranger was produced at the Louisville Assembly Plant in Louisville, Kentucky from 1982 to 1999. From 1993 to 2004, production also was sourced from Edison Assembly in Edison, New Jersey. For its entire production run, the Ranger was produced at Twin Cities Assembly Plant in St. Paul, Minnesota. The final 2012 Ford Ranger produced on December 16, 2011, ended 86 years of production at Twin Cities Assembly as well as the production of all compact pickups in the United States.\n\nIn 2017, Ford announced the return of the Ford Ranger to North America, commencing with the 2019 model year. Derived from the Ranger T6, the 2019 Ford Ranger will be manufactured in the United States.\n\nFor the 1972 model year, the Ford Courier was introduced as the first compact pickup truck sold by Ford. Following the rise of the compact truck segment during the 1960s, Ford entered into a partnership with Mazda to market the Mazda B1800 in North America; the Courier would become the first of several jointly manufactured vehicles between the two companies from the 1970s into the 2000s. Along with minimizing the risk for Ford of developing a vehicle in an unfamiliar market segment, the partnership provided Mazda with critically needed funds. \n\nWhile sharing the cab and chassis with its Mazda counterpart, to increase its sales potential in North America, the Courier adapted design elements of the Ford F-Series, with twin round headlamps, silver grille, and \"FORD\" lettering on the hood above the grille. In 1977, the Courier and B1800 (later B2000) were redesigned with a larger cab, redesigned pickup bed, and tailgate. While closer in appearance to its Mazda counterpart, the Courier was given signal/parking lamps inset in the grille (rather than the bumper); an optional 2.3L Ford engine was not available the Mazda pickups. \n\nFrom 1972 to 1982, the Ford Courier was manufactured alongside the Mazda B-Series in Hiroshima, Japan. To avoid the 25% \"Chicken tax\" on imported trucks, both vehicles were imported as cab-chassis trucks (taxed at 4% tariff). Following their importation to United States, pickup-truck beds shipped separately from Japan were installed before shipment to dealers. \n\nIn 1976, Ford commenced development on \"Project Yuma\", intended to bring a domestically produced compact truck to production. In addition to develop a successor for the Courier, the $700 million project was driven in an effort to comply with fuel economy standards of the mid-1980s. At the beginning of Yuma, Ford predicted for that the company to properly comply with CAFE by 1985, nearly 50% of pickup trucks sold in the United States would require a 4-cylinder engine, leading from compact truck sales to expand from a 5% market share in 1976 to nearly 50% in 1985, with nearly a million sales per year. \n\nProject Yuma was centered around quality and fuel efficiency. At the beginning of the project, Ford researched additional elements that were valued by potential compact truck buyers. Along with the flexibility for both work and personal use, Ford found that buyers desired additional interior room, including three-across seating, comfortable seats, and headroom and legroom for a six-foot tall driver; other minor details were discovered such as five-bolt wheels and a larger ashtray. \n\nDuring design, the body underwent extensive wind tunnel testing, to meet a planned 20 MPG fuel efficiency target (the standard front bumper spoiler added 1MPG on its own). To further improve fuel economy, the Ranger increased the use of high-strength steel other lightweight materials, including a magnesium clutch housing, aluminum transfer case for four-wheel drive versions, and a magnesium clutch/brake pedal bracket. To further save weight, the design of the front suspension was computer-optimized, rendering the front stabilizer bar optional. Though narrower than the F-Series and other full-size competitors, the cargo bed of the Ranger was designed to transport a four-foot wide sheet of material (considered an industry measure of space in pickup truck bed design) through the use of recesses to insert supports across the bed, allowing the Ranger to transport such material above the wheel wells. \n\nThe 1979 fuel crisis nearly doomed the Yuma/Ranger project, as it occurred between launch of the 1979 Ford LTD and 1980 Ford F-Series. After selling nearly 1 million F-Series trucks in 1978, in 1980, Ford had yet to gain a profit from its redesign of the F-Series. Ford President Don Petersen kept the compact truck project alive for several reasons. By 1980, General Motors had its own compact truck in development, with the Chevrolet S-10 providing close competition. Peterson also felt the compact truck could be priced similar to the F-100, as he felt buyers would pay as much for a compact truck as a full-size one, if equipped correctly. \n\nAround 1980, the Project Yuma truck became known as the Ford Ranger, adopting the name of the mid to upper-level trim used by the Ford F-Series and Bronco since 1965. In anticipation of the compact truck line, 1981 marked the final use of the Ranger trim for the F-Series and Bronco (replaced by XLS for 1982). \n\nThe first Ranger rolled off the Louisville assembly line on January 18, 1982. While initially slated for a traditional autumn release, to more closely compete with the introduction of the Chevrolet S-10, Ford advanced the launch of the 1983 Ranger several months, with the first vehicles reaching showrooms in March 1982. \n\nInitially sold along its Courier predecessor, the first 1983 Ranger was priced at $6,203 ($16,570 in 2018). While far smaller in exterior size than the F-Series, 4x4 Rangers offered a payload of 1,600 pounds, matching or exceeding the F-100 in payload capacity. For 1984, the Ford Bronco II two-door SUV was introduced. Similar in size to the 1966–1977 Bronco, the Bronco II used a shortened version of the Ranger chassis, along with much of its interior components.\n\nFor the 1989 model year, the Ranger underwent a major mid-cycle revision to improve its exterior aerodynamics and interior ergonomics. For 1991, the Ford Explorer SUV was derived from the facelifted Ranger, sharing its front fascia, chassis, and interior components. \n\nThe first-generation Ranger uses a body-on-frame chassis design; while using a chassis developed specifically for the model line, the Ranger adopts many chassis design elements from the F-Series. Along with traditional leaf-spring rear suspension, the Ranger is fitted with Twin I-Beam independent front suspension. To minimize unsprung weight, the Twin I-Beams were constructed of stamped high-strength steel (rather than forged steel).\n\nRear-wheel drive was standard, with part-time four-wheel drive as an option (never offered in the Courier). Dependent on configuration, the Ranger was produced in three wheelbases: 107.9 inches (6-foot bed), 113.9 inches (7-foot bed), and 125 inches (SuperCab, introduced in 1986). \n\nFor 1989, rear-wheel anti-lock brakes became standard.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1992, the first-generation Ranger was powered by 2.0L and 2.3L versions of the Ford \"Pinto\" inline-4, the 2.8L, 2.9L, and 4.0L Ford \"Cologne V6\", the 3.0L Ford \"Vulcan V6\", and four-cylinder diesel engines sourced from Mazda (Perkins) and Mitsubishi. Two long-running engines associated with the Ford light trucks made their debut in the first-generation Ranger; the twin spark-plug version (with distributorless ignition) of the Pinto engine was introduced in 1989, remaining in use through 2001. In 1990, the 4.0L Cologne V6 was introduced; in modified form, the engine was used through the 2012 model-year discontinuation of the Ranger in North America. \n\nA four-speed manual transmission was standard on all engines for 1983 and 1984, with a five-speed manual as an option; a three-speed automatic was offered on 2.3L and 2.8L engines. For 1985, the five-speed manual became the standard transmission, with a four-speed automatic offered on non-diesel Rangers. For 1989, the Mazda M5OD-R1 transmission became the standard transmission \nSlightly larger than the Courier, the first-generation Ranger was approximately 18 inches shorter and 11 inches narrower than an equivalently configured F-100/F-150. While proportioned similar to the Chevrolet S-10 and Japanese-sourced compact trucks, adopted exterior design elements from the F-Series, including its twin headlamps, chrome grille, tailgate lettering, taillamps, and cab proportions. In line with the Courier, the Ranger was offered with two pickup bed sizes; a standard 6-foot length and an extended 7-foot length. In 1986, a third configuration was introduced, as the Ranger SuperCab extended cab was introduced. Stretched 17 inches behind the front doors for additional cab space, the SuperCab was offered with the 6-foot bed length; four-wheel drive SuperCabs were sold only with V6 engines. \n\nDuring its production, the first-generation Ranger was offered with several seating configurations. A three-passenger bench seat was standard, with various types of bucket seats offered (dependent on trim level). As part of the 1989 mid-cycle update, a 40/60 split-bench seat was introduced. The SuperCab was offered with a pair of center-facing jump seats, expanding capacity to five. \n\nFrom 1983 to 1988, the interior saw few major revisions. In 1986, the instrument cluster was revised, allowing the fitment of a tachometer. To streamline production, the Ranger shared interior components with other Ford vehicles, sharing the steering column, door handles, and window controls from the Ford Escort, Ford F-Series, and Ford Bronco; nearly the entire driver's compartment of the Ford Bronco II was directly sourced from the Ranger. \n\nFor 1989, the Ranger underwent a mid-cycle redesign with new front fenders, a restyled hood and grille, and flush-mounted composite headlamps (with larger marker lamps). To further improve aerodynamics, the front bumper was redesigned and enlarged to fit more closely with the front fenders. The interior was given a redesign, including new door panels, new seats, and an all-new dashboard (introducing a glovebox). To improve ergonomics, the instrument panel was redesigned for improved legibility, with automatic transmission Rangers receiving a column-mounted gearshift; manual-transmission versions saw the removal of the key-release button from the steering column. \n\nThe first-generation Ranger was marketed in five trim levels: Ranger S, Ranger, Ranger XL, Ranger XLS, and Ranger XLT. Intended largely for fleet sales, the Ranger S (introduced in 1984) was offered with virtually no available options. While still largely a work truck, the Ranger XL offered color-keyed trim, floor mats, and chrome bumpers. The XLS was marketed as the sportiest version of the Ranger, offering bucket seats, blackout trim, and tape stripe packages (essentially the successor to the 1970s \"Free Wheeling\" trims) while the XLT was offered with two-tone exteriors, chrome exterior trim, and upgraded interior trim. \n\nThe Ranger STX was introduced in 1985 for Ranger 4x4s on the West Coast of the United States, becoming fully available for 1986. Offering a \"sport\" suspension and larger tires, the STX was denoted by the offering of a bucket-seat interior and model-specific two-tone paint scheme. \n\nFollowing an initial late 1986 introduction in California, Ford marketed the Ranger GT option package from 1987 to 1989. Marketed as a \"sport pickup\", the Ranger GT was offered only for regular-cab two-wheel drive Rangers. Powered by a 140 hp 2.9L V6 (paired with either a 5-speed manual or 4-speed automatic transmission), the Ranger GT was equipped with front and rear anti-roll bars, a limited-slip differential, and performance tires. Initially offered for short-bed Rangers, the Ranger GT package became available for long-bed two-wheel drive Rangers. \n\nThe Ranger GT was available in either red, white, or blue paint colors; chrome trim was painted body color. In 1988, the exterior was modified, with a ground effects package, including a redesigned body-color front bumper, allowing for integrated fog lamps. \n\nFor 1990, the Ranger GT was discontinued; a one-off prototype was constructed in 1989 by the Ford Truck Public Affairs office, using a V6 from a Ford Taurus SHO and a 5-speed transmission from a Mustang GT. \n\nThe redesign in 1992 for 1993 featured mild restyling, flush-mounted door glass, wider doors, and slight fender flares. The 1989-style dashboard remained, but the seats and door panels were new. A six digit odometer was added for 1994. The 2.9-liter engine was discontinued. The engines offered were offered in displacements of 2.3, 3.0 and 4.0 liters. A new \"Splash\" model was introduced, which had a flare side bed, unique chrome wheels, lowered rear suspension and a lowered front suspension (on 4x2 models), and special vinyl \"Splash\" decals on the sides and the tailgate.\n\nThe 1993 Splash trim level was offered with regular cab in arctic white, gloss black, red orange, and sky blue. The Mazda B-Series became a re-badged Ranger for the 1994 model year, but the Mazda B-Series did not offer an equivalent to the Splash model. While 1993 Rangers used R-12 Freon, 1994 model year saw the transition to CFC-free air-conditioning systems in compliance with the Clean Air Act. For the 1994 model year, the Splash trim had options which all included; a lowered rear suspension and lowered front suspension (on 4x2 models), flare side bed, an extended cab, and unique chrome wheels. The decals also underwent subtle changes. While the 1993–1994 models sported red, yellow and blue stripes, the 1995 to 1996 models had lime green stripes. Additionally, the available colors for the Splash model changed from the 1993–1994 models to the 1995–1997 models. The latter were offered in maroon, gloss black, white, and canary yellow.\n\nFall 1994 production (1995 model year) included a steering wheel modified to include a driver's side airbag and a redesigned dashboard which included a double DIN radio head unit. Also for 1995 (model year), SuperCab trucks could have a power driver's seat. The A4LD transmission was updated. 2.3- and 3.0-liter models got the \"4R44E\", while 4.0-liter trucks got the \"4R55E\". The front brakes were changed to use the same two-piston brake calipers as the second-generation Explorer, and four-wheel anti-lock brakes were added as standard on 4x4 and 4.0-liter models. From October 1995 (1996 model year), an optional passenger airbag (the first compact truck to offer one) became available, with a key-operated cutoff switch that allowed the airbag to be turned off for smaller passengers riding in the front seat. In October 1996, the 1997 model year brought in the first ever five-speed automatic transmission to be used by an American manufacturer. The 4.0-liter models were equipped with the \"5R55E\", while the 3.0-liter was still mated to the \"4R44E\".\n\nIn 1997 for the 1998 model year, the Ranger got a major update to the same body design, by giving it a longer wheelbase and a longer cab for the regular cab models (part of which provided more room in the interior). The 1995 to 1997 model year interior look was retained. The Twin I-Beam front suspension was replaced by the wishbone-style system found on the Explorer and the front half of the frame was of \"boxed\", rather than C-channel construction. Rack and pinion steering was also added. The four-cylinder engine was increased to a 2.5-liter SOHC I4, giving it a 6% increase in power over the old 2.3-liter. It produced and of torque. Also, for the 2000 model year, amber rear turn signals were discontinued. 4x4 models were equipped with a PVH lockout system for the front axles. This system proved to be rather unreliable and was changed to a live axle setup in mid-2000.\n\nThe 2.5-liter engine was replaced by a new DOHC 2.3-liter Duratec inline-four in mid-2001. 2001 also saw the pushrod 4.0-liter V6 replaced by the SOHC version from the Explorer, bringing with it a more durable \"M5OD-R1HD\" manual transmission. Also in 2001, the five-speed automatic transmission that was introduced in 1997 for the 4.0-liter V6, was now also available with the 2.3- and 3.0-liter units. The Ranger received a facelift, including a new grille, hood, and front bumper, as well as updated headlights and taillights. SLP produced a version of the Ranger, called \"Thunderbolt\". This model included different options, such as a unique front and rear bumper, air intake, exhaust and even a spoiler.\n\nIn 2004, the Ranger received minor updates to the grille, hood, and front bumper. New front bucket seats were also added in 2004 to meet the new U.S. Federal safety requirements. It retained the dashboard lines of the previous years trucks with an instrument cluster change. In 2006, the Ranger received more minor updates to the grille, front side markers and taillights, along with a bigger rear Ford logo that was now centered in the tailgate. It also received new larger mirrors similar to those found on other Ford trucks and SUVs.\n\nThe latest Ranger offered a 2.3-liter inline-four and a 4.0-liter V6. The 3.0-liter Vulcan V6 was discontinued as of the 2009 model year. Ford uses code \"R10\" through \"R19\" in the fifth, sixth, and seventh VIN positions for all Rangers; R10, R14, and R18 are all rear-wheel drive; regular cab, two-door SuperCab, and four-door SuperCab respectively. R11, R15, and R19 are four-wheel drive; regular cab, two-door SuperCab, four-door SuperCab respectively.\n\nIn December 2009, Ford announced that specially designed custom graphics would be applied to the Ranger, beginning with the 2010 models. The feature was exclusive to Ford Dealers and allowed customers to pick a design that they wanted customized for their Ranger trims.\n\nFor the 2011 and 2012 model year, the level trims were adjusted. The XL trim has the standard level, followed by the XLT and Sport trims. The latter two included Sirius radio as an optional feature.\n\nThe Ford Ranger was the first small pickup to introduce dual airbags as safety features. It received an \"acceptable\" frontal crash test rating from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety when they were first tested in 1998, while many of its competitors received \"marginal\" or \"poor\" ratings at that time. The exception was the Toyota Tacoma, which also got an \"acceptable\" rating.\n\nThe 2010 model year brought the addition of front seat combination head and torso airbags to improve passenger safety in a side-impact collision and earned \"good\" rating through the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety's side impact test. Also, electronic stability control was added for the 2010 models as standard equipment.\n\nIn the Roof Strength Test conducted by Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, the Ford Ranger earned an \"Acceptable\" rating.\n\nThe FX4 Level II version comes with a special 31-spline Ford 8.8 rear axle equipped with a Zexel-Torsen limited-slip differential, three skid plates, upgraded tow hooks, 31\" BFGoodrich All Terrains, 15-inch forged Alcoa wheels, and Bilstein shocks. Inside, the Level II package added two-tone cloth seats, optional leather and rubber floors along with a six-CD MP3 headunit as standard options. The FX4 level II package was first available in 2003, though, in 2002 the very first \"FX4\" package, however, not the Level II, was available. The 2002 FX4 off-road package is identical to the 2003+ FX4 Level II package, since there wasn't a FX4 Level II package offered. The FX4 off-road package did differ from the FX4 Level II package after 2002. The 2002 FX4 off-road and 2003 FX4 Level II are often referred to be the \"Holy Grail\" of Rangers, since there were limited production of these trucks with both a manual transmission and manual 4x4. According to Ford, 17,971 Level IIs were built from 2002 through 2007 (including the 2002), and 45,172 of the Off Roads were built from 2003 to 2009. The FX4 Off Road was available into 2009, but the Level II was stopped after 2007, though many Level II features could be ordered individually. In 2010 the Ranger discontinued the FX4 trim level for the U.S. market, but it remained available in the Canadian market.\n\nThe above pictures are of a 2006+ FX4 level 1. A Level II has a special \"Level II\" decal just behind the front wheels in the secondary paint color, as well as chrome \"J\" tow hooks.\n\nIn January 2018, one year after announcing the production return of the Ford Ranger to North America, Ford introduced the 2019 Ford Ranger at the 2018 North American International Auto Show, marking the first Ford entry into the mid-size pickup truck segment. The fourth-generation Ranger began production on October 29, 2018, and will go on sale by January 2019. In place of commercial use, Ford seeks to market the Ranger to private buyers using the truck for recreation; creating a vehicle for those who seek a vehicle smaller than a full-size truck, along with F-Series owners seeking a vehicle with a smaller exterior footprint. \n\nThe 2019 Ford Ranger is derived from the Ford T6 global midsize truck architecture designed by Ford of Australia. While already designed to accommodate left-hand drive use, the T6 chassis underwent further modifications for use in North America. To better accommodate American crash standards and increase its payload, the frame was revised to include fully boxed frame rails. All versions of the Ranger sold in North America have a 127-inch wheelbase, regardless of cab or drivetrain configuration. \n\nFor North American production, the Ranger T6 is produced with a single powertrain. Shared with the Ford Explorer and Ford Mustang, the Ranger is powered by a 2.3L EcoBoost inline-4. For the Ranger, the engine produces 270 hp and 310 lb-ft of torque (10 fewer horsepower than the Explorer). The engine is paired to a 10-speed 10R80 automatic transmission; shared with the Mustang GT and F-150 with the EcoBoost V6 or V8 engine. \n\nFor 2019 production, no Duratorq or EcoBlue diesel engines are announced for the North American version of the T6 Ranger nor are any alternative gasoline engines.\n\nThe 2019 Ford Ranger will be sold in four-door SuperCab and four-door SuperCrew configurations (Ford has no plans to market a two-door Ranger in North America). While externally similar to its global counterpart, the 2019 Ford Ranger features a number of exterior design changes. Most visibly, the front fascia was redesigned with a frame-mounted steel bumper. At the minor expense of frontal aerodynamics, the sturdier front bumper was designed to better comply with American crash standards. To better market the vehicle towards private buyers in North America, the Ranger was given a distinct hood design and grilles related to trim level. Additional trim included color-contrasting fender molding and fender grilles (in line with the F-Series trucks). The \"RANGER\"-embossed tailgate was modified; in the interest of aerodynamics, adding a spoiler (sharing the locking tailgate handle from the F-150).\n\nThe interior of the global Ranger was also revised slightly. To comply with American safety mandates, a rearview safety camera is standard along with automatic emergency braking. Several sizes of interior touchscreens are offered, depending on trim packages ordered. To increase interior storage, waterproof storage compartments were added under the rear seats.\n\nAs the global Ford Ranger was designed before the current F-Series, usage of aluminum in the body is minor, with only an aluminum hood and tailgate.\n\nThe 2019 Ford Ranger shares the trim levels of the previous American Ford Ranger and the Ford F-Series: base XL, mid-level XLT, and top-trim Lariat. To supplement each trim level, Chrome, Sport, and FX option packages are offered for all three trim levels.\n\nStarting in 1998, Ford began to phase out the Ford Courier name on its Mazda-produced compact pickups sold globally in favor of the Ranger nameplate (though the Courier remained in use in Australia). Consequently, exports of the North American-produced Ranger were primarily limited to South America, including Argentina, Brazil, and Chile.\n\nIn 1995 Ford began exports of the Ranger from the United States to Argentina; initial exports started with two-door SuperCab equipped with the 4.0-liter gasoline \"Cologne\" V6. As demand increased, Ford made the decision to produce it locally in Buenos Aires, Argentina at the Ford General Pacheco Assembly Plant for the local market, Canada and subsequently for the rest of Latin America.\n\nThe first Rangers produced at General Pacheco were built in 1996 with a single cab, gasoline engine version. By November 1997, supply was increased with both diesel and gasoline engines, two-wheel and four-wheel drive and different levels of equipment.\n\nAfter two years of local production in Argentina, in 1998, Ford of Argentina introduced a redesigned version of the Ford Ranger. Featuring the same updates as its counterpart in the United States, a new four-door double cab body variant exclusive to South America made its debut. As Ford was developing the functionally similar Ford Explorer Sport Trac at the time, the double-cab Ford Ranger was not produced or marketed in the United States or Canada.\n\nTo better match the needs of local buyers, Ford of Argentina offered three different turbodiesel powertrain options, including a 2.5-liter turbocharged four-cylinder diesel with 115 hp (85 kW) starting in 1998, a 2.8-liter with 135 hp (99 kW) starting in 2002 and a 3.0-liter with and of torque mated to an Eaton \"FSO-2405-A\" five-speed manual transmission starting in 2004.\n\nThe 2001 exterior facelift given to North American Rangers was not carried over to South American versions, with the 1998 front bodywork remaining until the 2003 model year. For 2004, both versions were given the same grille (though Argentine-produced versions were designed with projector-style headlamps).\n\nFollowing a US$156.5 million upgrade to the General Pacheco factory in 2007, several upgrades were made to the South American Ranger; a number of them would diverge the model from its US counterpart. For 2008, the Ranger received a makeover with a grill and headlights similar to the 2006 North American version; bed extenders became available for all boxes.\n\nFor 2010, the Ranger was given its largest facelift since 1992. To allow for a more aggressive stance, the hood, front fenders, and front bumper were replaced with a more aggressive and rounded design, including large wheel arches; on the doors, the handles were replaced by a pull-out design. For the first time, the Ranger wore the Ford corporate three-bar grille. Inside, the interior design introduced in 2008 remained, with both previous engine configurations. A new option (for Argentina and Brazil) included an engine powered by compressed natural gas, making it the first pickup truck to offer a factory-built natural gas vehicle (NGV) commercially available in those countries.\n\nIn 2012, Ford of Argentina replaced the US-derived Ranger with the larger Ranger T6. Designed by Ford of Australia, the Ranger T6 consolidated the Ford- and Mazda-based versions of the Ranger onto a single platform sold globally outside the United States and Canada.\n\n\nEngines:\n\nIn the summer of 2005, alongside the update for the 2006 model-year U.S. Ranger, the first information emerged about its intended replacement. Designed under the P273 codename as a 2010 model-year vehicle, the new Ranger was designed as a global vehicle, intended to replace three versions of the Ranger: the related North American and Latin American versions, along with the rebadged version designed by Mazda sold through much of the rest of the world. In 2007, the Thai market received a Ranger based on the 4Trac concept vehicle. Designed by Ford Australia, the Ford Ranger T6 began production in 2011 in AutoAlliance in Rayong, Thailand. While the Ranger T6 was initially released as a global vehicle, it was not sold in the United States or Canada, leaving the compact Ranger without a successor. \n\nIn 2008, Ford made its first plans to end production of the Ranger in North America; although its high productivity spared it from The Way Forward, Twin Cities Assembly (built in 1925) was the oldest Ford factory worldwide. Ford later extended the closure date of the factory to 2011, but in June 2011, a final closure date was announced. As Twin Cities was the sole production location of the Ranger in North America (from 1982), its closure brought the production of the Ranger to an end after 29 model years. The 2011 model year was the final model year for retail sales, with a shortened 2012 model year for fleet sales; the final North American-market Ranger (a white SuperCab Sport produced for pest-control company Orkin) was produced on December 16, 2011. \n\nWhile the global Ranger T6 underwent development in the late 2000s, it was ultimately rejected for the North American market for several reasons. Although compact pickup trucks had grown in size in the 2000s (notably the Nissan Frontier and Toyota Tacoma) in the early 2000s (in comparison to the Ranger and Chevrolet S10), the global Ranger was seen as dimensionally a mid-size truck. While potentially offering Ford a competitor to the Dodge Dakota for the first time, Ford also felt a mid-size truck of its own would threaten sales of the Ford F-150, the best-selling vehicle in the United States. Another factor in its decision was the overall decline of the compact truck segment, from 8% of total market sales in 1994 to 2% in 2010. \n\nAccording to its market research, toward the end of its production, Ford discovered that most Ford Ranger buyers were not buying the Ranger as a truck, but for its low price as a new vehicle. Along with its plans to increase F-Series fuel economy, Ford sought to retain Ranger buyers with the Ford Fiesta and Ford Transit Connect. \n\nIn 2015, as part of contract negotiations with the United Auto Workers, leaked reports over the future of the Michigan Assembly Plant included the potential decision of replacing Ford Focus and Ford C-Max production with an American-market version of the global Ford Ranger. Along with the revival of the Ranger nameplate, the UAW negotiations also included a potential revival of the Ford Bronco SUV. \n\nAt the 2017 North American International Auto Show, Ford confirmed the return of the Ford Ranger and Ford Bronco, with the Ford Ranger as a 2019 model-year vehicle. The production 2019 Ford Ranger was unveiled one year later, at the 2018 North American International Auto Show.\n\nThe new 2019 Ford Ranger has a single powertrain package under its twin-power-dome hood: Ford's 2.3-litre EcoBoost four-cylinder engine, mated a 10-speed automatic transmission – an exclusive in the segment. The engine features direct fuel injection, a twin-scroll turbocharger and four valves per cylinder, for enhanced efficiency and capability.\n\nThe first battery electric vehicle produced by Ford in North America, the Ford Ranger EV was produced from 1998 to 2002. Originally fitted with lead-acid batteries, Nickel metal hydride (NiMH) batteries were introduced for 1999. While using the frame of a 4x4 Ranger, the Ranger EV was rear-wheel drive with a rear-mounted driveline. It is also the only rear-wheel drive American-produced Ford fitted with a de Dion rear suspension. Externally, the Ranger EV is primarly distinguished from a standard Ranger by its grille; the Ranger EV has a grille-mounted charging port on the right third of its grille. \n\nDuring its production, 1,500 Ranger EVs were produced; as with most electric vehicles of the 1990s, it was offered exclusively through lease. While most fleet-leased Ranger EVs were returned to Ford after the end of the lease and dismantled, some Ranger EVs leased by indivduals were purchased and remain in use. \n\nFor the 2000 model year, Ford introduced the Ford Explorer Sport Trac as its first crew-cab compact pickup in North America. While crew-cab Ford Rangers were sold in South America (and through rebadging, other markets worldwide), the Explorer Sport Trac was developed as a personal-use vehicle rather than a utility vehicle. In its design, the Sport Trac was a combination of several vehicles: the Ranger SuperCab chassis, Explorer Sport front fascia, a cab formed from the five-door Explorer, and an all-new composite pickup bed (sharing the tailgate with the F-150). \n\nTwo generations of the Sport Trac were produced. From 2000 to 2005, the Sport Trac was based on the 1991-2001 Explorer, powered solely by the 4.0L V6. For 2006, the Sport Trac adopted the chassis of the fourth-generation Explorer (introducing a 4.6L V8 option), ending the production of the Ranger-based Explorer. \n\nAfter 2010, the Sport Trac was discontinued without a successor as part of \"The Way Forward\"; the 2019 Ranger SuperCrew is sized similar in width and wheelbase to the Sport Trac.\n\nFor 1994, Mazda North America ended imports of the B-series from Japan, entering into an agreement with Ford to market a rebadged version of the Ranger as the B-series in the United States and Canada. For Mazda, whose 1986-1993 B-series had struggled in North America, the new B-series was a variant of one of the highest-selling compact trucks. In addition, selling a truck produced in the United States allowed Mazda to entirely circumvent the 25% \"chicken tax\". \n\nWhile Mazda continued sales of the previous-generation B-series for global markets, for the United States and Canada, the B-series adapted the body configurations and powertrains as the Ranger; two-wheel drive and 4x4 versions were offered. As with previous generations, badging was related to engine displacement; versions with the 2.3L inline-four were the B2300, the 3.0L V6 as the B3000, and the 4.0L V6 as the B4000. \n\nTo distinguish Ford and Mazda trucks from one another, stylists gave the B-series its own front fascia and pickup truck bed; the extended cab (Cab Plus) was styled with blacked-out and chrome window trim. At its launch, Mazda sold the B-series in two trim lines, SE and LE (equivalent to Ranger XL and XLT, respectively). For 1997, the trim levels were revised, as the LE was dropped in favor of SE-5 and SE-5+; for 1998, SX became the base trim, with SE becoming the highest trim. For 2002, the B-series was renamed Mazda Truck, though all fender badging denoting engine size remained. \n\nDuring its production, the B-series/Truck largely followed the development of the Ranger in its body and chassis. For 1997, Mazda dropped the B3000 (separately from Ford); the model returned for 1998. For 1998, the B-series underwent the same body and chassis redesign as the Ranger, with a new front fascia, redesigned pickup bed (with vestigial fenders), and a larger-displacement standard engine (creating the B2500). During 1998, rear-hinged doors were added to Cab Plus models, a first in the pickup truck segment (alongside SuperCabs of the Ford Ranger and F-Series). For 2001, the B2300 returned (with a Ford Duratec DOHC engine) and the B4000 received a SOHC 4.0L V6 engine. \n\nAs the B-series became the Mazda Truck for 2002, it underwent its final exterior update, introducing a centered Mazda badge to the grille. After 2007, the B3000 was discontinued (as production of the 3.0L Vulcan V6 ended within a year). As Mazda North America began to shift away from pickup truck sales, the Mazda Truck was withdrawn from the United States after the 2009 model year. Sold in Canada for 2010, the final Mazda Truck rolled off the Twin Cities Assembly Plant assembly line on December 11, 2009. \n\nFor the 1986 model year, the Ford Aerostar was launched as the first minivan from Ford Motor Company. While built using a separate chassis architecture, the Aerostar sourced mechanical components from the Ranger, Bronco II, and Explorer, including engines and transmissions. Other minor interior components were also shared between the Ranger and Aerostar (and other Ford vehicles). \n\nThe Aerostar was sold through the 1997 model year, replaced by the front-wheel drive Ford Windstar and Mercury Villager (the former deriving components from the Ford Taurus). \n\nFor the 1978 model year, the Ford Bronco transitioned in size from a compact SUV to a full-size SUV derived from the Ford F-100. To re-enter the segment vacated by the Bronco, Ford developed a compact SUV alongside the Ranger. Introduced for the 1984 model year, the Ford Bronco II was slightly longer and wider than the first-generation Bronco, using a shortened 4x4 Ranger chassis. \n\nIn sharp contrast to the spartan original, the Bronco II offered all of the convenience features available on the Ranger. Unlike its larger namesake, the Bronco II was not designed with a removable roof, including large side windows which extended into the rear roofline. From the B-pillars forward, the Bronco II shared its interior with the Ranger (with the exception of badging). For 1989, the Bronco II shared the front fascia and interior of the facelifted Ranger. \n\nAs part of a redesign, the Bronco II was enlarged for the 1991 model year, becoming the Ford Explorer Sport (alongside the four-door Ford Explorer). \n\nFor the 1991 model year, Ford redesigned the Bronco II, renaming it the Ford Explorer. To increase its utility as a family vehicle, the Explorer was introduced as a five-door SUV. Again based on the Ranger chassis, both versions of the Explorer shared interior components with the Ranger and front bodywork forward of the windshield (though visible parts commonality was reduced over the Bronco II). In 1995, as part of a body revision, the Ranger bodywork was removed from the Explorer; the model line also became the first Ford truck to end the use of Twin I-Beam front suspension.\n\nTo functionally replace the Bronco II, Ford created a three-door version of the Explorer. To address the stability problems of the Bronco II, Ford lengthened the wheelbase of the three-door Explorer by 8 inches and it was nearly a foot longer in length over its predecessor. In contrast to the glass-panel roofline of the Bronco II, the three-door Explorer wore a similar roofline to the five-door, with a raked \"C-pillar\" as an identifying feature. For 1998, the three-door adopted the Explorer Sport name (the most commonly produced trim level for three-doors). For 2001, to distinguish the three-door from the five-door, the Explorer Sport was styled with the same front fascia as the Sport Trac pickup truck. As demand for three-door SUVs declined (in comparison to five-door SUVs), the Explorer Sport was discontinued after the 2003 model year. \n\nFrom 1991 to 1994, Mazda marketed the three-door Explorer as the Mazda Navajo. Equipped similar to the Explorer Sport and Explorer XLT three-door, the Navajo differed largely in exterior trim and wheels, with the interior differing only in the instrument panel lettering. Due to the slow sales of three-door SUVs, the Mazda Navajo was discontinued during the 1994 model year. With the exception of steering-wheel badging, the Navajo used the same dashboard as the 1989-1994 Ranger. \n\nFrom 1997 to 2010, Mercury marketed the five-door Explorer as the Mercury Mountaineer. As part of the development of the 2002 third-generation Ford Explorer, Ford developed a dedicated mid-size SUV chassis for the Explorer and Mountaineer, ending their use of the Ranger chassis after the 2001 model year.\n\n"}
{"id": "15765914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15765914", "title": "Geoff Mosley", "text": "Geoff Mosley\n\nJohn Geoffrey \"Geoff\" Mosley (born 14 September 1931) was Executive Director of the Australian Conservation Foundation from 1973 to 1986 and has had a lifelong interest in preserving wilderness. He has since been regularly elected from Victoria to the Council of the Australian Conservation Foundation as the only candidate In Victoria to receive a quota of first preference votes.\n\nHis contributions were acknowledged in 2005 when he was made a Member of the Order of Australia in the Queen's Birthday Honours. In June, 2008 he was named as the Individual Award winner in the Australia World Environment Day 2008 Awards. In 2008, he also became the Australian Director of the Centre for the Advancement of the Steady State Economy.\n"}
{"id": "18990011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18990011", "title": "Green wood", "text": "Green wood\n\nGreen wood is wood that has been recently cut and therefore has not had an opportunity to season (dry) by evaporation of the internal moisture. Green wood contains more moisture than seasoned wood, which has been dried through passage of time or by forced drying in kilns. Green wood is considered to have 100% moisture content relative to air-dried or seasoned wood which is considered to be 20%. Energy density charts for wood fuels tend to use air-dried wood as their reference, thus oven-dried or 0% moisture content can reflect 103.4% energy content.\n\nWhen green wood is used as fuel in appliances\n, it releases less heat per unit of measure (usually cords or tons) because of the heat consumed to evaporate the moisture. The lower temperatures that result can lead to more creosote being created which is later deposited in exhaust flues. These deposits can later be ignited when sufficient heat and oxygen are present to cause a chimney fire which can be destructive and dangerous.\n\nGreen lumber presents its own characteristics as well. Some species of wood are better assembled green because wood splits less when nailed green. Other species shrink excessively, leaving voids between the individual pieces when allowed to dry. Often wood to be used for fine products such as furniture is kiln-dried to stabilize it and minimize the shrinkage of the finished product.\n"}
{"id": "1280086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1280086", "title": "Ionocraft", "text": "Ionocraft\n\nAn ionocraft or ion-propelled aircraft (commonly known as a lifter or hexalifter) is an aircraft that uses an electrical electrohydrodynamic (EHD) phenomenon to produce thrust in the air without requiring any combustion or moving parts. Current designs do not yet produce enough thrust for manned flight or heavy loads. \n\nThe term \"ionocraft\" dates back to the 1960s, an era in which EHD experiments were at their peak. In its basic form, it consists of two parallel conductive electrodes, one in the form of a fine wire and another which may be formed out of wire grid, tubes or foil skirts with a smooth round surface. When such an arrangement is powered by high voltage (in the range of a few kilovolts), it ionizes nitrogen molecules in the air and accelerates them from one electrode to the other; these ions collide with neutral air molecules and accelerate them, producing thrust. The ionocraft forms part of the EHD thruster family, but is a special case in which the ionisation and accelerating stages are combined into a single stage.\n\nIonocrafts have been popular among anti-gravity or so-called \"electrogravitics\" proponents, due to the research of Thomas Townsend Brown, who built these devices in the 1920s and incorrectly believed that he had found a way to modify gravity using electric fields.\n\nThe term \"lifter\" is an accurate description because it is not an anti-gravity device; rather, it produces lift using the same basic principle as a rocket, i.e. from the equal but opposite force upward generated by the driving force downward, specifically by driving the ionized air downward in the case of the ionocraft. Much like a rocket or a jet engine (it can actually be much more thrust efficient than a jet engine), the force that an ionocraft generates is consistently oriented along its own axis, regardless of the surrounding gravitational field. Claims of the device also working in a vacuum have been disproved.\n\nIonocraft require many safety precautions due to the high voltage required for their operation; nevertheless, a large subculture has grown up around this simple EHD thrusting device and its physics are now known to a much better extent. \n\nIn 5 February 2002 Neil McPherson, USA, built the first electroaerodynamic propulsion plane (tethered to a power supply). In November 2018 the first ion-propelled glider plane carrying its own batteries was flown over a distance of 60 meters by a team of scientists from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It had a 5 meter wingspan and weighed 2.45 kg.\n\nAn ionocraft is a propulsion device based on ionic air propulsion that works without moving parts, uses only electrical energy, and is able to lift its own weight, not including its own power supply. The principle of ionic wind propulsion with corona-generated charged particles has been known from the earliest days of the discovery of electricity with references dating back to 1709 in a book titled \"Physico-Mechanical Experiments on Various Subjects\" by Francis Hauksbee. Its use for propulsion was given serious thought by Major Alexander Prokofieff de Seversky who contributed much to its basic physics and construction variations in 1960. In fact, it was Major de Seversky himself who in 1964 coined the term Ionocraft in his (). There are also designs by the American experimenter Thomas Townsend Brown, such as his 1960 patents for \"Elektrokinetic Apparatus\". Brown spent most of his life trying to develop what he thought was an anti-gravity effect, which he named the Biefeld–Brown effect. Since Brown's devices produce thrust along their axis regardless of the direction of gravity and do not work in a vacuum, the effect he identified has been attributed to electrohydrodynamics instead of anti-gravity.\n\nA simple ionocraft derivative, also known as a lifter, can be easily constructed by anyone with a minimal amount of technical knowledge. The model in its simplest form has the shape of an equilateral triangle with sides generally between 10 and 30 cm. They consist of three parts, the \"corona wire\" (or emitting wire), the \"air gap\" (or dielectric fluid), and the \"foil skirt\" (collector). The electrical polarities of the emitting and collecting electrodes can be reversed. All of this is usually supported by a lightweight balsawood or other electrically isolating frame so that the corona wire is supported at a fixed distance above the foil skirt, generally at 1 mm per kilo-volt. The corona wire and foil should be as close as possible to achieve a saturated corona current condition which results in the highest production of thrust. However the corona wire should not be too close to the foil skirt as it will tend to arc in a spectacular show of tiny lightning bolts which has a twofold effect:\n\nThe corona wire is usually, but not necessarily, connected to the positive terminal of the high voltage power supply. In general, it is made from a small gauge bare conductive wire. While copper wire can be used, it does not work quite as well as stainless steel. Similarly, thinner wire such as 50 gauge tends to work well compared to more common, larger sizes such as 30 gauge, as the stronger electric field around the smaller diameter wire results in better ionisation and a larger corona current.\n44 gauge stainless steel wire is also known to work very well and has been used with great success by hobbyists.\nDue to anomalies in construction adding supports made from 3D printed staggered mesh (to prevent surface arc-over) from SLS in resin can work if atmospheric humidity is low enough.\n\nThe corona wire is so called because of its tendency to emit a purple corona-like glow while in use. This is simply a side effect of ionization. Excessive corona is to be avoided, as too much means the electrodes are dangerously close and may arc at any moment, not to mention the associated health hazards due to excess inhalation of ozone and NOx produced by the corona.\n\nThe air gap is simply that, a gap of free flowing air between the two electrodes that make up the structure of an ionocraft.\n\nThe air gap is a vital necessity to the functioning of this device as it is the dielectric used during operation. Best results have been observed with an air gap of 1 mm to every kV.\n\nThe collector may take various shapes, as long as it results in a smooth equipotential surface underneath the corona wire. Variations of this include a wire mesh, parallel conductive tubes, or a foil skirt with a smooth round edge. The foil skirt collector is the most popular for small models, and is usually, but not necessarily, connected to the negative side of the power supply. It is usually conveniently made from cheap, lightweight aluminum foil.\n\nThe foil skirt is named simply because it is shaped much like a skirt, and is made from aluminum foil. It is by far the most fragile part, and must not be crumpled to work properly. Any sharp edges on the skirt will degrade the performance of the thruster, as this will generate ions of opposite polarity to those within the thrust mechanism.\n\nReversing the polarities of the corona wire with that of the foil does not alter the direction of motion. Thrust will be produced regardless of whether the ions are positive or negative. For positive corona polarity, nitrogen ions are the main charge carriers, whilst for negative polarity, oxygen ions will be the main carriers and ozone production will be higher. The slight difference in their ion mobility, results in slightly higher thrust for the positive corona polarity case.\n\nUse of conductive aquadag paint (eg carbon) has been explored but invariably it deteriorates in use unless supplemented by conductive foil underneath. The problem appears to be sputtering and further research is underway to determine if this can be resolved.\n\nThe generated thrust can be explained in terms of electrokinetics or, in modern terms, electrohydrodynamics propulsion and can be derived through a modified use of the Child-Langmuir equation.\nA generalized one-dimensional treatment gives the equation:\n\nwhere\n\nIn its basic form, the ionocraft is able to produce forces great enough to lift about a gram of payload per watt, so its use is restricted to a tethered model. Ionocraft capable of payloads in the order of a few grams usually need to be powered by power sources and high voltage converters weighing a few kilograms, so although its simplistic design makes it an excellent way to experiment with this technology, it is unlikely that a fully autonomous ionocraft will be made with the present construction methods. Further study in electrohydrodynamics, however, show that different classes and construction methods of EHD thrusters and hybrid technology (mixture with lighter-than-air techniques), can achieve much higher payload or thrust-to-power ratios than those achieved with the simple lifter design. Practical limits can be worked out using well defined theory and calculations., Thus, a fully autonomous EHD thruster is theoretically possible.\n\nWhen the ionocraft is turned on, the corona wire becomes charged with high voltage, usually between 20 and 50 kV. The user must be extremely careful not to touch the device at this point, as it can give a nasty shock. At extremely high current, well over the amount usually used for a small model, contact could be fatal. When the corona wire is at approximately 30 kV, it causes the air molecules nearby to become ionised by stripping the electrons away from them. As this happens, the ions are strongly repelled away from the anode but are also strongly attracted towards the collector, causing the majority of the ions to begin accelerating in the direction of the collector. These ions travel at a constant average velocity termed the drift velocity. Such velocity depends on the mean free path between collisions, the external electric field, and on the mass of ions and neutral air molecules.\n\nThe fact that the current is carried by a corona discharge (and not a tightly-confined arc) means that the moving particles are diffusely spread out into an expanding ion cloud, and collide frequently with neutral air molecules. It is these collisions that create a net movement. The momentum of the ion cloud is partially imparted onto the neutral air molecules that it collides with, which, being neutral, do not eventually migrate back to the second electrode. Instead they continue to travel in the same direction, creating a neutral wind. As these neutral molecules are ejected from the ionocraft, there are, in agreement with Newton's Third Law of Motion, equal and opposite forces, so the ionocraft moves in the opposite direction with an equal force. There are hundreds of thousands of molecules per second ejected from the device, so the force exerted is comparable to a gentle breeze. Still, this is enough to make a light balsa model lift its own weight. The resulting thrust also depends on other external factors including air pressure and temperature, gas composition, voltage, humidity, and air gap distance.\n\nThe air gap is very important for the function of this device. Between the electrodes there is a mass of air, consisting of neutral air molecules, which gets in the way of the moving ions. This air mass is impacted repeatedly by excited particles moving at high drift velocity. This creates resistance, which must be overcome. The barrage of ions will eventually either push the whole mass of air out of the way, or break through to the collector where electrons will be reattached, making it neutral again. The end result of the neutral air caught in the process is to effectively cause an exchange in momentum and thus generate thrust. The heavier and denser the gas, the higher the resulting thrust.\n\nRecent research suggests electrohydrodynamic propulsion is more energy efficient (thrust per unit power) than other means of propulsion, generating up to 100N of thrust per kilowatt of power, compared to 2 N/kW for jet engines. This is mainly due to the much lower air speed of an ionocraft vs a jet engine, as power requirement per unit mass of payload drops with air velocity. However this also means the ionocraft needs a much wider surface area to lift the same payload.\n\nA variant may enable for the first time a self-contained unit that uses a working gas; this is the subject of a patent application but is believed to be similar to ESA's air-breathing ion engine with the notable exception of size.\nIn this case a specific combination of electrodes with very low work function enables radically higher efficiency and as such can be recharged easily with a simple arrangement of gas canisters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23396704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23396704", "title": "Kosterhavet National Park", "text": "Kosterhavet National Park\n\nKosterhavet National Park is the first national marine park in Sweden, inaugurated on September 2009. It is part of the Skagerrak sea and is located in Strömstad and Tanum municipalities in Bohuslän, Västra Götaland County, Sweden. It consists of the sea and shores around the Koster Islands, excluding everything else on the islands. In the north, it borders the Norwegian marine park of Ytre Hvaler.\n\nKosterhavet National Park is home to Sweden's largest seal colony.\n\nThe environment in the park is unique to Swedish waters. Over 6,000 marine species have been identified, about 200 of them can not to be found elsewhere in Sweden. The Kosterfjord () is deep with relatively low temperature – – and high salinity (about 35%). Brachiopod, sponge and coral larvae are brought in by currents from the Atlantic. Rare seabirds, such as Arctic terns and skuas, along with a large population of harbor seals have their habitat here. Plaice, cod and sea trout breed in the more shallow waters closer to the shore.\n\nProfessional fishing is allowed although special regulations apply. The waters of the park is significant for the fishing of \"northern prawn\" and Norwegian lobster. Fishing is not subject to environmental protection, and are instead regulated by fishery laws and an agreement from 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "6358467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6358467", "title": "Lamma Winds", "text": "Lamma Winds\n\nLamma Winds () is a wind farm in Tai Ling, Lamma Island, Hong Kong where the average wind velocity is 5.5 m/s.\n\nBuilt near the Lamma Power Station and owned by Hongkong Electric, on average it provides slightly over 100 kW of power to Hong Kong Island and Lamma Island.\n\nLamma Winds began operating on 23 February 2006, and was the first commercial-scale wind turbine in Hong Kong. The wind turbine is a Nordex N50/800 kW model with a rotor diameter of , a nameplate capacity of and a capacity factor of about 13% which delivers an average output of around .\nIt can generate enough power for approximately 250 households in ideal conditions, though considerably fewer in typical conditions.\nBefore the construction of the wind turbine, Environmental Resources Management of Hong Kong (ERMHK) analyzed its environmental impacts, and predicted no significant adverse effects.\n\nLamma Winds is one of the relatively few commercial-scale wind turbines in the world that is open to the public. An exhibition centre surrounds the base of the wind turbine, and is open daily from 7 AM to 6 PM, including weekends and holidays. Access to the exhibition center is by foot; the walk from Yung Shue Wan Ferry Pier takes about 40 minutes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12942131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12942131", "title": "Landau (carriage)", "text": "Landau (carriage)\n\nA landau is a coachbuilding term for a type of four-wheeled, convertible carriage. It was a city carriage of luxury type. The low shell of the landau made for maximum visibility of the occupants and their clothing, a feature that makes a landau still a popular choice for the Lords Mayors of certain cities in the United Kingdom on ceremonial occasions.\n\nA landau is lightweight and suspended on elliptical springs. It was invented in the 18th century; \"landau\" in this sense is first noted in English in 1743. It was named after the German city of Landau in the Rhenish Palatinate where they were first produced. Lord, Hopkinson, coachmakers of Holborn, London, produced the first English landaus in the 1830s.\n\nA landau, drawn by a pair or four-in-hand, is one of several kinds of vis-à-vis, a social carriage with facing seats over a dropped footwell (\"illustration\"), which was perfected by the mid-19th century in the form of a swept base that flowed in a single curve. The soft folding top is divided into two sections, front and rear, latched at the center. These usually lie perfectly flat, but the back section can be let down or thrown back while the front section can be removed or left stationary. When fully opened, the top can completely cover the passengers, with some loss of the graceful line.\n\nThe landau's center section might contain a fixed full-height glazed door, or more usually a low half-door. There would usually be a separate raised open coachman's upholstered bench-seat, but a landau could be postilion-driven, and there was usually a separate groom's seat, sprung above and behind the rear axle, saving the groom from having to stand on a running board.\n\nA five-glass landau was fitted with a front glass windscreen and two windows on each side (including retractable windows on the doors).\n\nThe landau reached its full development by the mid-19th century. It was purely a city carriage of luxury type. The low shell of the landau made for maximum visibility of the occupants and their clothing, a feature that makes a landau still a popular choice for Lords Mayor on ceremonial occasions.\n\nA landaulet carriage is a cut-down (coupé) version of a landau carriage. The landaulet retained the rear half of the landau's two-part folding top.\n\nThe Royal Mews contains several different types of landau: seven State Landaus are in regular use (dating from between 1838 & 1872), plus five Semi-state Landaus. As well as being slightly plainer in ornamentation, the Semi-state Landaus are distinguished from the State Landaus in that they are postilion-driven, rather than driven from the box. \nThe 1902 State Landau was built for the coronation of Edward VII in 1902. Unlike the earlier State Landaus, it is postilion-driven. So too are the five Ascot Landaus, smaller and lighter carriages with basket-work sides, which are used each year (as their name suggests) at Royal Ascot. The Royal Mews also retains a miniature landau made for the children of George V and designed to be pulled by ponies.\n\nLandaus make for a striking display as long as the weather is fine, and they are used on occasions ranging from State Visits and the Opening of Parliament, to Royal Weddings, Jubilees and other celebrations. They also play a regular part in the welcoming of new ambassadors to the Court of St James's: soon after arriving in London, foreign ambassadors have an audience with the Queen in which they present their Letters of Credence or Letters of High Commission to Her Majesty. The ambassadors are collected from the embassy or residence by a State landau from the Royal Mews for this purpose, and escorted by the Marshal of the Diplomatic Corps, who is based at St. James's Palace. The ambassador's suite follows in another State landau.\n\nThe monarch of Canada has a state landau at his or her disposal in Ottawa for ceremonial processions from Rideau Hall to Parliament Hill. The State Landau was given to Canada in 1911 and was formerly used by the Governor General of Australia.\n\nFor the Queen's Plate in Toronto, the monarch and the royal family have a private landau owned by the Ontario Jockey Club and gift from E.P. Taylor.\n\nA number of horse-drawn carriages, known in Japan as \"zagyoshiki\", are maintained by the Imperial household and regularly used when new ambassadors present their credentials to the emperor as well as for royal weddings and coronations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5117025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5117025", "title": "Light Up the World Foundation", "text": "Light Up the World Foundation\n\nThe Light Up the World Organization (LUTW) is a non-profit humanitarian organization dedicated to providing lighting to poor people in remote areas who currently rely on kerosene lamps or even wood fires. Apart from improved night-time lighting this gives health benefits and financial benefits.\n\nLUTW is affiliated with the University of Calgary, Canada.\n\nTo date, lighting has been provided to more than 14,000 homes in 26 countries, such as Sri Lanka and South Africa.\n\nLUTW uses a combination of white LED (WLED) lights or LED lamps and a source of renewable energy, typically solar cells but alternatively person powered pedal generators, micro hydro or small wind turbines. The solar cells are suitable for providing electricity in remote areas, while the LED lights are chosen for their efficiency, durability, and relatively low cost. The efficiency of the lights means that relatively small solar panels are needed, reducing the capital cost.\nThere is currently a movement towards the implementation of CFLs (compact fluorescent lighting) as it has been determined to be far more efficient than white LEDs (WLEDs) with recent technology advances. LUTW has recently been discussing the benefits of biogas and is looking into the future of it.\n\nAlthough the lighting system is somewhat expensive for the villagers (approximately US$75) in the long term the cost of kerosene for lamps is eliminated. The elimination of kerosene smoke is a health benefit, and the light is also brighter than a kerosene lamp.\n\nThe LUTW website cites a Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory paper, which argues that replacing kerosene lamps with LED Lamps helps reduce greenhouse gases. The paper says:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32259120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32259120", "title": "List of types of solar cells", "text": "List of types of solar cells\n\n\"For description and history, see Solar cell\"\n\nA solar cell (also called photovoltaic cell or photoelectric cell) is a solid state electrical device that converts the energy of light directly into electricity by the photovoltaic effect. \n\nThe following are the different types of solar cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "30888634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30888634", "title": "Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission", "text": "Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission\n\nMaharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) (http://www.merc.gov.in) is a governing body to control certain regulatory and safety functions in Maharashtra based in Mumbai. It was incorporated under the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998, of Central Act in August 1999. In 2003, Under Section 82 of the Electricity Act the Commission is continued as regulatory body in state. It was established to promote competition, efficiency and economy in the power sector. It also regulate tariffs of power generation, transmission and distribution in Maharashtra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22532045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22532045", "title": "Manjil and Rudbar Wind Farm", "text": "Manjil and Rudbar Wind Farm\n\nManjil, Harzvil, Siahpoush and Rudbar Wind Farms are wind farms located in Gilan, Iran. In 1995 the Iranian governors decided to use renewable energies in Iran and started to develop wind farms in Manjil area. They start with installing a Nord Tank NTK-500/37 wind turbine. They added other products of Nordtank such as NTK-300/35 and NTK-550/42. The developer was Iran Renewable energies organization (SUNA) as representative of TAVANIR, and they chose Saba-Niroo as Iranian manufacturer to produce wind turbines in Iran. Saba-Niroo signed a joint venture agreement with Vestas to produce V47-660/45 in Iran. Moshanir power engineering consultants were the consultants of the project.\nFinally, the project finished in February 2015.\nDue to the privatization policy, TAVANIR established Manjil green power production company and transferred all of his ownership on the mentioned power plant to this company. \nThe company transferred to Omid Taban Hour Energy Management company on February 22, 2018.\nThe total installed wind turbines in this project are as below:\nTotally 150 units with total capacity of 87.34 MW\n\n</ref>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "331080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331080", "title": "Matryoshka doll", "text": "Matryoshka doll\n\nA matryoshka doll (), also known as a Russian nesting doll, stacking dolls, or Russian doll, is a set of wooden dolls of decreasing size placed one inside another. The name \"matryoshka\" (матрёшка), literally \"little matron\", is a diminutive form of Russian female first name \"Matryona\" (Матрёна) or \"Matriosha\".A set of matryoshkas consists of a wooden figure, which separates, top from bottom, to reveal a smaller figure of the same sort inside, which has, in turn, another figure inside of it, and so on.\n\nThe first Russian nested doll set was made in 1890 by Vasily Zvyozdochkin from a design by Sergey Malyutin, who was a folk crafts painter at Abramtsevo. Traditionally the outer layer is a woman, dressed in a sarafan, a long and shapeless traditional Russian peasant jumper dress. The figures inside may be of either gender; the smallest, innermost doll is typically a baby turned from a single piece of wood. Much of the artistry is in the painting of each doll, which can be very elaborate. The dolls often follow a theme; the themes may vary, from fairy tale characters to Soviet leaders. In the west, Matryoshka dolls are often erroneously referred to as \"babushka dolls\", \"babushka\" meaning \"grandmother\" or \"old woman\".\n\nThe first Russian nested doll set was carved in 1890 by Vasily Zvyozdochkin and designed by Sergey Malyutin, who was a folk crafts painter in the Abramtsevo estate of Savva Mamontov, a Russian industrialist and patron of arts. The doll set was painted by Malyutin. Malyutin's doll set consisted of eight dolls—the outermost was a girl in a traditional dress holding a rooster. The inner dolls were girls and a boy, and the innermost a baby.\n\nThe origin of the inspiration for matroshka dolls is not clear. It is believed that Zvyozdochkin and Malyutin were inspired by eastern Asian culture, for example the doll Honshu, named after the main island of Japan, however the Honshu figures cannot be placed one inside another. Sources differ in descriptions of the doll, describing it as either a round, hollow daruma doll, portraying a bald old Buddhist monk, or a Seven Lucky Gods nesting doll.\n\nSavva Mamontov's wife presented the dolls at the Exposition Universelle in Paris, where the toy earned a bronze medal. Soon after, matryoshka dolls were being made in several places in Russia and shipped around the world.\n\nMatryoshka dolls are often designed to follow a particular theme; for instance, peasant girls in traditional dress. Originally, themes were often drawn from tradition or fairy tale characters, in keeping with the craft tradition—but since the late 20th century, they have embraced a larger range, including Russian leaders.\n\nCommon themes of Matryoshkas are floral and relate to nature. Often Christmas, Easter and religion are used as themes for the doll. Modern artists create many new styles of the nesting dolls, mostly as an alternative purchase option for tourism. These includes animal collections, portraits and caricatures of famous politicians, musicians, athletes, astronauts, \"robots,\" and popular movie stars. Today, some Russian artists specialize in painting themed matryoshka dolls that feature specific categories of subjects, people or nature. Areas with notable matryoshka styles include Sergiyev Posad, Semionovo (now the town of Semyonov), Polkhovsky Maidan, and Kirov.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s during Perestroika, freedom of expression allowed the leaders of the Soviet Union to become a common theme of matryoshka, with the largest doll featuring then-current leader Mikhail Gorbachev. These became very popular at the time, affectionately earning the nickname of a \"Gorby\", namesake of Gorbachev. With the periodic succession of Russian leadership after the collapse of the Soviet Union, newer versions would start to feature Russian presidents Boris Yeltsin, Vladimir Putin, and Dmitry Medvedev.\n\nMost sets feature the current leader as the largest doll, with the predecessors decreasing in size. The remaining smaller dolls may feature other former leaders such as Leonid Brezhnev, Nikita Khrushchev, Joseph Stalin, Vladimir Lenin, and sometimes several historically significant Tsars such as Nicholas II and Peter the Great. Yuri Andropov and Konstantin Chernenko almost never appear due to the short length of their respective terms. However, some less common sets may feature the current leader as the smallest doll, with the predecessors increasing in size, usually with Stalin or Lenin as the largest doll.\n\nSome sets that include Yeltsin preceding Gorbachev were made during the brief period between the establishment of President of the RSFSR and the collapse of the Soviet Union, as both Yeltsin and Gorbachev were concurrently in prominent government positions. During Medvedev's presidency, Medvedev and Putin may both share the largest doll due to Putin still having a prominent role in the government as Prime Minister of Russia. As of Putin's re-election as the 4th President of Russia, Medvedev will usually succeed Yeltsin and preceded Putin in stacking order, due to Putin's role solely as the largest doll.\n\nPolitical matryoshka usually range between 5 and 10 dolls per set.\n\nThe largest set of matryoshka dolls in the world is a 51-piece set hand-painted by Youlia Bereznitskaia of Russia, completed in 2003. The tallest doll in the set measures ; the smallest, . Arranged side-by-side, the dolls span .\n\nMatryoshka is often seen as a symbol of the feminine side of Russian culture.\nMatryoshka is associated in Russia with family and fertility. \nMatryoshka dolls are a traditional representation of the mother carrying a child within her and can be seen as a representation of a chain of mother's carrying on the family legacy through the child in their womb. Furthermore, Matryoshka dolls are used to illustrate the unity of body, soul, mind, heart and spirit.\n\nMatryoshkas are also used metaphorically, as a design paradigm, known as the “matryoshka principle” or “nested doll principle”. It denotes a recognizable relationship of “object-within-similar-object” that appears in the design of many other natural and crafted objects. Examples of this use include the matrioshka brain, the Matroska media-container format, and the Russian Doll model of multi-walled carbon nanotubes.\n\nThe onion metaphor is of similar character. If the outer layer is peeled off an onion, a similar onion exists within. This structure is employed by designers in applications such as the layering of clothes or the design of tables, where a smaller table nests within a larger table, and a smaller one within that.\n"}
{"id": "30536255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30536255", "title": "Mike Roselle", "text": "Mike Roselle\n\nMike Roselle (born 1954) is an American environmental activist and author. Roselle is one of the co-founders of the radical environmental organization Earth First!, as well as of Rainforest Action Network, the Ruckus Society, and Climate Ground Zero.\n\nRoselle states that he has been arrested about 50 times in his career; he says that \"it's hard to remember them all anymore.\"\n\nRoselle is the co-author of an autobiography, \"Tree Spiker: From Earth First! to Lowbagging: My Struggles in Radical Environmental Action\"\n"}
{"id": "55857604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55857604", "title": "Ministry of Energy and Electrification (Soviet Union)", "text": "Ministry of Energy and Electrification (Soviet Union)\n\nThe Ministry of Energy and Electrification (Minenergo; ) was a government ministry in the Soviet Union.\n\nThe State Committee for Power and Electrification was upgraded to ministerial status (union-republic) in 1965; changed to all-union on 17 July 1987.\n\n\"Source\":\n"}
{"id": "23445121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23445121", "title": "No Impact Man", "text": "No Impact Man\n\nNo Impact Man is a 2009 American documentary film directed by Laura Gabbert and Justin Schein, based on the book by Colin Beavan. The film, which premiered September 4, 2009, follows Colin Beavan and his family during their year-long experiment to have zero impact on the environment. The film mostly takes place in New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35722369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35722369", "title": "Off-center ions", "text": "Off-center ions\n\nOff-center ions in crystals are substitutional impurity ions whose equilibrium position is shifted away from the regular lattice site. The magnitude of the shift typically ranges from 0.2 to 1.0 Å. There are two possible mechanisms that can cause impurity ion displacement. If the impurity ion is smaller than the regular ion (by 10% or more), the displacement arises because the repulsive forces between the impurity ion and its nearest neighbors stabilizing the ion at the regular site are strongly weakened. If the impurity ion is bigger than the regular ion, the displacement arises because of different covalency of the chemical bonds with the nearest neighbors for the impurity and regular ions.\n\nOff-center position of substitutional ions was first discovered in lithium-doped KCl by two groups of American physicists in 1965. Since these pioneer works crystals with off-center impurity ions have attracted continuous attention. The cause of such interest is that these crystals can be used as good model objects for the investigation of such key phenomena in solid state physics as quantum tunnelling of atomic particles in solid state, cooperative properties of the system of local centers with internal degrees of freedom, and ferroelectricity.\n\n"}
{"id": "44045006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44045006", "title": "Operation Chough", "text": "Operation Chough\n\nOperation Chough () is a conservationist project which aims to create a viable population of red-billed chough (\"Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax\") in Cornwall. This bird is widely considered a symbol of the county and its people and was once commonly seen throughout Cornish landscapes. In spite of this close association, the chough population experienced a severe decline in Cornwall through the 20th century, and had not been seen in the county since the early 1970s. In 2001, however, up to five birds were seen on The Lizard, thought to have come from Ireland. This pioneer population rapidly grew, with their offspring reaching nearly twenty birds. Since then, the Operation has made several efforts to keep this population viable by monitoring the nesting areas, promoting awareness of the cultural and environmental importance of the species to Cornwall and by releasing birds to further enlarge the genetic pool of the pioneer communities.\n\nDr Richard Meyer's thesis 'The Feeding Ecology of the Red-billed chough (\"Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax\") in West Wales and the Feasibility of Re-establishment in Cornwall' is available online.\n"}
{"id": "18666533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18666533", "title": "Panemone windmill", "text": "Panemone windmill\n\nA panemone windmill is a type of vertical axis wind turbine. It has a rotating axis positioned vertically, while the wind-catching blades move parallel to the wind. By contrast, the shaft of a horizontal axis wind turbine (HAWT) points into the wind while its blades move at right-angles to the wind's thrust. That is, a panemone primarily uses drag whereas the blades of a HAWT use lift.\n\nHistorically the earliest known wind machine was made by the Persians and it was the panemone design, consisting of a wall, with slits, surrounding a vertical axle containing four to eight fabric sails. As the wind blew, the sails would turn the axle, which was in turn connected to grain grinders or some form of water transportation device (though little is known of the actual details of such methods).\n\nNo one knows when or where people first built windmills to do work. The first instance may have been in China more than 2,000 years ago, but archaeologists have found no definite record of their use there before 1219 AD. The earliest recorded windmill design found was Persian in origin, and was invented around 500–900 AD. Other sources date it to as early as 200 to 250 B.C. This design was the panemone, with vertical lightweight wooden sails attached by horizontal struts to a central vertical shaft. It was first built to pump water, and subsequently modified to grind grain as well.\n\nBefore becoming a slave to Calif Umar, Pīrūz Nahāvandi used to design and build windmills. In the 9th. century AD., Pīrūz brought a complaint to Umar about the high tax charged to him by his master Mughirah. Umar wrote to Mughirah and inquired about the tax; Mughirah's reply was satisfactory, but Umar held that the tax charged from Abu Lulu was reasonable, owing to his daily income. Umar then is reported to have asked Abu Lulu to design a windmill for him, in which Pīrūz replies, \" By God, I will build this [wind]mill of which the World will talk\".\n\nThe vanes of a panemone are moved by the wind in a circle to turn the drive shaft. To accomplish this they must move with the wind only while on one side of the circle, and move against the wind on the other side. To prevent the vanes moving upwind from being blown back by the wind, one half of the panemone may be shielded, or else the vanes may be attached so that they can turn edge-on to the wind when the wheel is moving them upwind.\n\nWind-harnessing devices which rely on drag reach their maximum efficiency if the collector is pushed away from the wind. Because the wind panels do no work while returning to the upwind side of the device, the rotor in the Persian panemone design can only take energy from wind striking half the collection area (see diagram).\n\nThe panemone is one of the least efficient types of wind turbine. Despite this it is also one of the most commonly re-invented and patented forms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1524589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524589", "title": "Paper recycling", "text": "Paper recycling\n\nThe recycling of paper is the process by which waste paper is turned into new paper products. It has a number of important benefits besides saving trees from being cut down. It is less energy and water intensive than paper made from wood pulp. It saves waste paper from occupying landfill and producing methane as it breaks down. Around two thirds of all paper products in the US are now recovered and recycled, although it does not all become new paper. After repeated processing the fibers become too short for the production of new paper.\n\nThere are three categories of paper that can be used as feedstocks for making \"recycled paper\": mill broke, pre-consumer waste, and post-consumer waste. \"Mill broke\" is paper trimmings and other paper scrap from the manufacture of paper, and is recycled in a paper mill. \"Pre-consumer waste\" is a material which left the paper mill but was discarded before it was ready for consumer use. \"Post-consumer\" waste is material discarded after consumer use, such as old corrugated containers (OCC), old magazines, and newspapers. Paper suitable for recycling is called \"scrap paper\", often used to produce moulded pulp packaging. The industrial process of removing printing ink from paper fibres of recycled paper to make deinked pulp is called deinking, an invention of the German jurist Justus Claproth.\n\nThe process of waste paper recycling most often involves mixing used/old paper with water and chemicals to break it down. It is then chopped up and heated, which breaks it down further into strands of cellulose, a type of organic plant material; this resulting mixture is called pulp, or slurry. It is strained through screens, which remove any glue or plastic (especially from \nplastic-coated paper) that may still be in the mixture then cleaned, de-inked, bleached, and mixed with water. Then it can be made into new recycled paper.\n\nThe share of ink in a wastepaper stock is up to about 2% of the total weight.\n\nIndustrialized paper making has an effect on the environment both upstream (where raw materials are acquired and processed) and downstream (waste-disposal impacts).\n\nToday, 40% of paper pulp is created from wood (in most modern mills only 9-16% of pulp is made from pulp logs; the rest comes from waste wood that was traditionally burnt). Paper production accounts for about 35% of felled trees, and represents 1.2% of the world's total economic output. Recycling one ton of newsprint saves about 1 ton of wood while recycling 1 ton of printing or copier paper saves slightly more than 2 tons of wood. This is because kraft pulping requires twice as much wood since it removes lignin to produce higher quality fibres than mechanical pulping processes. Relating tons of paper recycled to the number of trees not cut is meaningless, since tree size varies tremendously and is the major factor in how much paper can be made from how many trees. Trees raised specifically for pulp production account for 16% of world pulp production, old growth forests 9% and second- and third- and more generation forests account for the balance. Most pulp mill operators practice reforestation to ensure a continuing supply of trees. The Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) and the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certify paper made from trees harvested according to guidelines meant to ensure good forestry practices. It has been estimated that recycling half the world’s paper would avoid the harvesting of 20 million acres (81,000 km²) of forestland.\n\nEnergy consumption is reduced by recycling, although there is debate concerning the actual energy savings realized. The Energy Information Administration claims a 40% reduction in energy when paper is recycled versus paper made with unrecycled pulp, while the Bureau of International Recycling (BIR) claims a 64% reduction. Some calculations show that recycling one ton of newspaper saves about of electricity, although this may be too high (see comments below on unrecycled pulp). This is enough electricity to power a 3-bedroom European house for an entire year, or enough energy to heat and air-condition the average North American home for almost six months. Recycling paper to make pulp actually consumes more fossil fuels than making new pulp via the kraft process; these mills generate most of their energy from burning waste wood (bark, roots, sawmill waste) and byproduct lignin (black liquor). Pulp mills producing new mechanical pulp use large amounts of energy; a very rough estimate of the electrical energy needed is 10 gigajoules per tonne of pulp (2500 kW·h per short ton).\n\nAbout 35% of municipal solid waste (before recycling) in the United States by weight is paper and paper products. 42.4% of that is recycled.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has found that recycling causes 35% less water pollution and 74% less air pollution than making virgin paper. Pulp mills can be sources of both air and water pollution, especially if they are producing bleached pulp. Modern mills produce considerably less pollution than those of a few decades ago. Recycling paper decreases the demand for virgin pulp, thus reducing the overall amount of air and water pollution associated with paper manufacture. Recycled pulp can be bleached with the same chemicals used to bleach virgin pulp, but hydrogen peroxide and sodium hydrosulfite are the most common bleaching agents. Recycled pulp, or paper made from it, is known as PCF (process chlorine free) if no chlorine-containing compounds were used in the recycling process. However, recycling mills may have polluting by-products like sludge. De-inking at Cross Pointe's Miami, Ohio mill results in sludge weighing 22% of the weight of wastepaper recycled.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, there was an increased demand for books and writing material. Up to that time, paper manufacturers had used discarded linen rags for paper, but supply could not keep up with the increased demand. Books were bought at auctions for the purpose of recycling fiber content into new paper, at least in the United Kingdom, by the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nInternationally, about half of all recovered paper comes from converting losses (pre-consumer recycling), such as shavings and unsold periodicals; approximately one third comes from household or post-consumer waste.\n\nSome statistics on paper consumption:\n\nPaper recycling in Europe has a long history. The industry self-initiative European Recovered Paper Council(ERPC) was set up in 2000 to monitor progress towards meeting the paper recycling targets set out in the 2000 European Declaration on Paper Recycling. Since then, the commitments in the Declaration have been renewed every five years. In 2011, the ERPC committed itself to meeting and maintaining both a voluntary recycling rate target of 70% in the then E-27 plus Switzerland and Norway by 2015 as well as qualitative targets in areas such as waste prevention, ecodesign and research and development. In 2014 the paper recycling rate in Europe was 71.7%, as stated in the 2014 Monitoring Report.\n\nMunicipal collections of paper for recycling are in place. However, according to the \"Yomiuri Shimbun\", in 2008, eight paper manufacturers in Japan have admitted to intentionally mislabeling recycled paper products, exaggerating the amount of recycled paper used.\n\nRecycling has long been practiced in the United States. In 2012, paper and paperboard accounted for 68 million tons of municipal solid waste generated in the U.S., down from more than 87 million tons in 2000, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. While paper is the most commonly recycled material—64.6 percent was recovered in 2012—it is being used less overall than at the turn of the century. Paper accounts for more than a half of all recyclables collected in the US, by weight.\n\nThe history of paper recycling has several dates of importance:\n\nToday, over half of all paper used in the United States is collected and recycled. Paper products are still the largest component of municipal solid waste, making up more than 40% of the composition of landfills. In 2006, a record 53.4% of the paper used in the US (53.5 million tons) was recovered for recycling, up from a 1990 recovery rate of 33.5%.\nThe US paper industry set a goal of recovering 55 percent of all paper used in the US by 2012. Paper products used by the packaging industry were responsible for about 77% of packaging materials recycled, with more than 24 million pounds recovered in 2005.\n\nBy 1998, some 9,000 curbside recycling programs and 12,000 recyclable drop-off centers existed nationwide. As of 1999, 480 materials recovery facilities had been established to process the collected materials. Recently, junk mail has become a larger part of the overall recycling stream, compared to newspapers or personal letters. However, the increase in junk mail is still smaller compared to the declining use of paper from those sources.\n\nIn 2008, the global financial crisis caused the price of old newspapers to drop in the U.S. from $130 to $40 per short ton ($140/t to $45/t) in October.\n\nThe environmental impact due to excessive use of paper has negative effects on trees and forest. Paper production utilizes nearly 40% of world’s commercially cut timber. Millions of acres of forests are destroyed leading to deforestation disturbing the ecological balance. Many initiatives are being taken in India for recycling paper and reducing the hazards associated with it. Shree Aniruddha Upasana Foundation (Mumbai, India) is one such organization which undertakes used paper recycling projects. The foundation encourages using paper bags instead of plastic ones which again are a serious hazard to environment. They accept old newspapers, notebooks and so on and recycle the same into paper bags, teaching aids and toys for children.\nThe foundation also makes eco-friendly Lord Ganesh (a Hindu Deity) idols from paper pulp which are worshiped in Indian homes every year during Ganesh Chaturthi Festival (a Hindu Festival celebrated on birthday of Lord Ganesh). These paper recycling activities are carried out throughout the year by the volunteers of the foundation converting waste paper into “No Waste” \nIn Mexico, recycled paper, rather than wood pulp, is the principal feedstock in papermills accounting for about 75% of raw materials.\nAlong with fibres, paper can contain a variety of inorganic and organic constituents, including up to 10,000 different chemicals, which can potentially contaminate the newly manufactured paper products. As an example, bisphenol A (a chemical commonly found in thermal paper) has been verified as a contaminant in a variety of paper products resulting from paper recycling. Furthermore, groups of chemicals as phthalates, phenols, mineral oils, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and toxic metals have all been identified in paper material. Although several measures might reduce the chemical load in paper recycling (e.g., improved decontamination, optimized collection of paper for recycling), even completely terminating the use of a particular chemical (phase-out) might still result in its circulation in the paper cycle for decades.\n\n"}
{"id": "10345810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10345810", "title": "Piper aduncum", "text": "Piper aduncum\n\nPiper aduncum, the spiked pepper, matico or higuillo de hoja menuda, is a flowering plant in the family Piperaceae. Like many species in the family, the matico tree has a peppery odor.\n\nThe fruits are used as a condiment and for flavoring cocoa. It is sometimes used as a substitute for long pepper.\n\nIn the Amazon Rainforest, many of the native tribes use matico leaves as an antiseptic. In Peru, it was used for stopping hemorrhages and treating ulcers, and in European practice in the treatment of diseases of the genitals and urinary organs, such as those for which cubeb was often prescribed.\n\nMatico is a tropical, evergreen, shrubby tree that grows to the height of 6 to 7 meter (20 to 23 ft) with lance-shaped leaves that are 12 to 20 centimeter (5 to 8 in) long. It is native to Southern Mexico, the Caribbean, and much of tropical South America. It is grown in tropical Asia, Polynesia, and Melanesia and can even be found in Florida, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico. In some countries matico is considered as an invasive weed. In parts of New Guinea, although matico is notorious for drying out the soil in the areas where it is invasive, the wood of this plant is nonetheless used by local residents for a myriad of uses such as for fuel and fence posts.\n\nAccording to legends, the plant was discovered by a wounded Spanish soldier named Matico. He learned, presumably from the local tribes, that applying the leaves to his wounds stopped bleeding, and it began to be called \"Matico\" or \"soldier's herb\". It was introduced into the profession of medicine in the United States and Europe by a Liverpool physician in 1839 as a styptic and astringent for wounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "5557857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5557857", "title": "Pre-main-sequence star", "text": "Pre-main-sequence star\n\nA pre-main-sequence star (also known as a PMS star and PMS object) is a star in the stage when it has not yet reached the main sequence. Earlier in its life, the object is a protostar that grows by acquiring mass from its surrounding envelope of interstellar dust and gas. After the protostar blows away this envelope, it is optically visible, and appears on the stellar birthline in the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. At this point, the star has acquired nearly all of its mass but has not yet started hydrogen burning (i.e. nuclear fusion of hydrogen). The star then contracts, its internal temperature rising until it begins hydrogen burning on the zero age main sequence. This period of contraction is the pre-main sequence stage. An observed PMS object can either be a T Tauri star, if it has fewer than 2 solar masses (), or else a Herbig Ae/Be star, if it has 2 to 8 . Yet more massive stars have no pre-main-sequence stage because they contract too quickly as protostars. By the time they become visible, the hydrogen in their centers is already fusing and they are main-sequence objects.\n\nThe energy source of PMS objects is gravitational contraction, as opposed to hydrogen burning in main-sequence stars. In the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram, pre-main-sequence stars with more than 0.5 first move vertically downward along Hayashi tracks, then leftward and horizontally along Henyey tracks, until they finally halt at the main sequence. Pre-main-sequence stars with less than 0.5 contract vertically along the Hayashi track for their entire evolution.\n\nPMS stars can be differentiated empirically from main-sequence stars by using stellar spectra to measure their surface gravity. A PMS object has a larger radius than a main-sequence star with the same stellar mass and thus has a lower surface gravity. Although they are optically visible, PMS objects are rare relative to those on the main sequence, because their contraction lasts for only 1 percent of the time required for hydrogen fusion. During the early portion of the PMS stage, most stars have circumstellar disks, which are the sites of planet formation.\n\n"}
{"id": "8958909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8958909", "title": "Rumenic acid", "text": "Rumenic acid\n\nRumenic acid, also known as bovinic acid, is a conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) found in the fat of ruminants and in dairy products. It is an omega-7 trans fat. Its lipid shorthand name is cis-9, trans-11 18:2 acid.\nThe name was proposed by Kramer \"et al.\" in 1998. It is formed along with vaccenic acid by biohydrogenation of dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids in the rumen.\nIt can be considered as the principal dietary form, accounting for as much as 85-90% of the total CLA content in dairy products.\n"}
{"id": "22868109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22868109", "title": "Society for the Conservation and Study of Caribbean Birds", "text": "Society for the Conservation and Study of Caribbean Birds\n\nThe Society for the Conservation and Study of Caribbean Birds (SCSCB) is an ornithological non-profit organization. It strives to protect Caribbean birds and their habitats through education, research, conservation action and capacity building. It is the largest bird conservation organization in the Caribbean region, including the Bahamas and Bermuda as well as the islands within the Caribbean basin. It was founded in 1988 and is a member of the Ornithological Council. This organization is a sponsor of International Migratory Bird Day. In July 2013 it is hosting its 19th regional conference, Bird Conservation in a Changing Climate, in Grenada. \n\nThe Society produces the journal \"The Journal of Caribbean Ornithology\" (formerly \"El Pitirre\") which publishes papers in English, French and Spanish, a newsletter \"Birds Caribbean\", and local field guides.\n\n"}
{"id": "81580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81580", "title": "Spider silk", "text": "Spider silk\n\nSpider silk is a protein fibre spun by spiders. Spiders use their silk to make webs or other structures, which function as sticky nets to catch other animals, or as nests or cocoons to protect their offspring, or to wrap up prey. They can also use their silk to suspend themselves, to float through the air, or to glide away from predators. Most spiders vary the thickness and stickiness of their silk for different uses.\n\nIn some cases, spiders may even use silk as a source of food. While methods have been developed to collect silk from a spider by force, it is difficult to gather silk from many spiders in a small space, in contrast to silkworm \"farms\".\n\nAll spiders produce silks, and a single spider can produce up to seven different types of silk for different uses. This is in contrast to insect silks, where an individual usually only produces one type of silk. Spider silks may be used in many different ecological ways, each with properties to match the silk's function. As spiders have evolved, so has their silks' complexity and diverse uses, for example from primitive tube webs 300–400 million years ago to complex orb webs 110 million years ago.\n\nMeeting the specification for all these ecological uses requires different types of silk suited to different broad properties, as either a fibre, a structure of fibres, or a silk-globule. These types include glues and fibres. Some types of fibres are used for structural support, others for constructing protective structures. Some can absorb energy effectively, whereas others transmit vibration efficiently. In a spider, these silk types are produced in different glands; so the silk from a particular gland can be linked to its use by the spider.\n\nEach spider and each type of silk has a set of mechanical properties optimised for their biological function.\n\nMost silks, in particular dragline silk, have exceptional mechanical properties. They exhibit a unique combination of high tensile strength and extensibility (ductility). This enables a silk fibre to absorb a large amount of energy before breaking (toughness, the area under a stress-strain curve).\nA frequent mistake made in the mainstream media is to confuse strength and toughness, when comparing silk to other materials. Weight for weight, silk is stronger than steel, but not as strong as Kevlar. Silk is, however, tougher than either.\n\nThe variability of mechanical properties of spider silk fibres may be important and it is related to their degree of molecular alignment. Mechanical properties depend strongly on the ambient conditions, i.e. humidity and temperature.\n\nA dragline silk's tensile strength is comparable to that of high-grade alloy steel (450−2000 MPa), and about half as strong as aramid filaments, such as Twaron or Kevlar (3000 MPa). In 2018, a wood-based nanofiber achieved tensile stiffness eight times greater and with higher tensile strength than spider silk.\n\nConsisting of mainly protein, silks are about a sixth of the density of steel (1.3 g/cm). As a result, a strand long enough to circle the Earth would weigh less than . (Spider dragline silk has a tensile strength of roughly 1.3 GPa. The tensile strength listed for steel might be slightly higher—e.g. 1.65 GPa, but spider silk is a much less dense material, so that a given weight of spider silk is five times as strong as the same weight of steel.)\n\nThe energy density of dragline spider silk is roughly .\n\nSilks are also extremely ductile, with some able to stretch up to five times their relaxed length without breaking.\n\nThe combination of strength and ductility gives dragline silks a very high toughness (or work to fracture), which \"equals that of commercial polyaramid (aromatic nylon) filaments, which themselves are benchmarks of modern polymer fibre technology\".\n\nWhile unlikely to be relevant in nature, dragline silks can hold their strength below −40 °C (−40 °F) and up to 220 °C (428 °F). As occurs in many materials, spider silk fibres undergo a glass transition. The glass-transition temperature depends on the humidity, as water is a plasticiser for the silk.\n\nWhen exposed to water, dragline silks undergo supercontraction, shrinking up to 50% in length and behaving like a weak rubber under tension. Many hypotheses have been suggested as to its use in nature, with the most popular being to automatically tension webs built in the night using the morning dew.\n\nThe toughest known spider silk is produced by the species Darwin's bark spider (\"Caerostris darwini\"): \"The toughness of forcibly silked fibers averages 350 MJ/m, with some samples reaching 520 MJ/m. Thus, \"C. darwini\" silk is more than twice as tough as any previously described silk, and over 10 times tougher than Kevlar\".\n\nSilk fibre is a two-compound pyriform secretion, spun into patterns (called \"attachment discs\") that are employed to adhere silk threads to various surfaces using a minimum of silk substrate. The pyriform threads polymerise under ambient conditions, become functional immediately, and are usable indefinitely, remaining biodegradable, versatile and compatible with numerous other materials in the environment. The adhesive and durability properties of the attachment disc are controlled by functions within the spinnerets. Some adhesive properties of the silk resemble glue, consisting of microfibrils and lipid enclosures.\n\nMany species of spider have different glands to produce silk with different properties for different purposes, including housing, web construction, defence, capturing and detaining prey, egg protection, and mobility (gossamer for ballooning, or for a strand allowing the spider to drop down as silk is extruded). Different specialised silks have evolved with properties suitable for different uses. For example, \"Argiope argentata\" has five different types of silk, each used for a different purpose:\n\nSilks, like many other biomaterials, have a hierarchical structure. The primary structure is its amino acid sequence, mainly consisting of highly repetitive glycine and alanine blocks, which is why silks are often referred to as a block co-polymer. On a secondary structure level, the short side chained alanine is mainly found in the crystalline domains (beta sheets) of the nanofibril, glycine is mostly found in the so-called amorphous matrix consisting of helical and beta turn structures. It is the interplay between the hard crystalline segments, and the strained elastic semi-amorphous regions, that gives spider silk its extraordinary properties. Various compounds other than protein are used to enhance the fibre's properties. Pyrrolidine has hygroscopic properties which keeps the silk moist while also warding off ant invasion. It occurs in especially high concentration in glue threads. Potassium hydrogen phosphate releases protons in aqueous solution, resulting in a pH of about 4, making the silk acidic and thus protecting it from fungi and bacteria that would otherwise digest the protein. Potassium nitrate is believed to prevent the protein from denaturing in the acidic milieu.\n\nThis first very basic model of silk was introduced by Termonia in 1994 who suggested crystallites embedded in an amorphous matrix interlinked with hydrogen bonds. This model has refined over the years: semi-crystalline regions were found as well as a fibrillar skin core model suggested for spider silk, later visualised by AFM and TEM. Sizes of the nanofibrillar structure and the crystalline and semi-crystalline regions were revealed by neutron scattering.\n\nIt has been possible to relate microstructural information and macroscopic mechanical properties of the fibres. The results show that ordered regions (i) mainly reorient by deformation for low-stretched fibres and (ii) the fraction of ordered regions increases progressively for higher stretching of the fibres.\n\nVarious compounds other than protein are found in spider silks, such as sugars, lipids, ions, and pigments that might affect the aggregation behaviour and act as a protection layer in the final fibre.\n\nThe production of silks, including spider silk, differs in an important aspect from the production of most other fibrous biological materials: rather than being continuously grown as keratin in hair, cellulose in the cell walls of plants, or even the fibres formed from the compacted faecal matter of beetles; it is \"spun\" on demand from liquid silk precursor out of specialised glands.\n\nThe spinning process occurs when a fibre is pulled away from the body of a spider, whether by the spider's legs, by the spider's falling under its own weight, or by any other method including being pulled by humans. The term \"spinning\" is misleading because no rotation of any component occurs, but rather comes from analogy to the textile spinning wheels. Silk production is a pultrusion, similar to extrusion, with the subtlety that the force is induced by pulling at the finished fibre rather than being squeezed out of a reservoir. The unspun silk fibre is pulled through silk glands of which there may be both numerous duplicates and different types of gland on any one spider species.\n\nThe gland's visible, or external, part is termed the spinneret. Depending on the complexity of the species, spiders will have two to eight spinnerets, usually in pairs. There exist highly different specialised glands in different spiders, ranging from simply a sac with an opening at one end, to the complex, multiple-section major ampullate glands of the golden silk orb-weavers.\n\nBehind each spinneret visible on the surface of the spider lies a gland, a generalised form of which is shown in the figure to the right, \"Schematic of a generalised gland\".\n\nGland characteristics\n\n\nThroughout the process the unspun silk appears to have a nematic texture, in a similar manner to a liquid crystal, arising in part due to the extremely high protein concentration of silk dope (around 30% in terms of weight per volume). This allows the unspun silk to flow through the duct as a liquid but maintain a molecular order.\n\nAs an example of a complex spinning field, the spinneret apparatus of an adult \"Araneus diadematus\" (garden cross spider) consists of the glands shown below. Similar multiple gland architecture exists in the black widow spider.\n\n\nIn order to artificially synthesise spider silk into fibres, there are two broad areas that must be covered. These are synthesis of the feedstock (the unspun silk dope in spiders), and synthesis of the spinning conditions (the funnel, valve, tapering duct, and spigot). There have been a number of different approaches.\n\nThe molecular structure of unspun silk is both complex and extremely long. Though this endows the silk fibres with their desirable properties, it also makes replication of the fibre somewhat of a challenge. Various organisms have been used as a basis for attempts to replicate some components or all of some or all of the proteins involved. These proteins must then be extracted, purified and then spun before their properties can be tested.\n\nSpider silks with comparatively simple molecular structure need complex ducts to be able to spin an effective fibre. There have been a number of methods used to produce fibres, of which the main types are briefly discussed below.\n\nFeedstock is simply forced through a hollow needle using a syringe. This method has been shown to make fibres successfully on multiple occasions.\n\nAlthough very cheap and easy to assemble, the shape and conditions of the gland are very loosely approximated. Fibres created using this method may need encouragement to change from liquid to solid by removing the water from the fibre with such chemicals as the environmentally undesirable methanol or acetone, and also may require post-stretching of the fibre to attain fibres with desirable properties.\n\nAs the field of microfluidics matures, it is likely that more attempts to spin fibres will be made using microfluidics. These have the advantage of being very controllable and able to test spin very small volumes of unspun fibre but setup and development costs are likely to be high. A patent has been granted in this area for spinning fibres in a method mimicking the process found in nature, and fibres are successfully being continuously spun by a commercial company.\n\nElectrospinning is a very old technique whereby a fluid is held in a container in a manner such that it is able to flow out through capillary action. A conducting substrate is positioned below, and a large difference in electrical potential is applied between the fluid and the substrate. The fluid is attracted to the substrate, and tiny fibres jump almost instantly from their point of emission, the Taylor cone, to the substrate, drying as they travel. This method has been shown to create nano-scale fibres from both silk dissected from organisms and regenerated silk fibroin.\n\nSilk can be formed into other shapes and sizes such as spherical capsules for drug delivery, cell scaffolds and wound healing, textiles, cosmetics, coatings, and many others. Spider silk proteins can also self-assemble on superhydrophobic surfaces to generate nanowires, as well as micron-sized circular sheets.\n\nDue to spider silk being a scientific research field with a long and rich history, there can be unfortunate occurrences of researchers independently rediscovering previously published findings. What follows is a table of the discoveries made in each of the constituent areas, acknowledged by the scientific community as being relevant and significant by using the metric of scientific acceptance, citations. Thus, only papers with 50 or more citations are included.\n\nPeasants in the southern Carpathian Mountains used to cut up tubes built by \"Atypus\" and cover wounds with the inner lining. It reportedly facilitated healing, and even connected with the skin. This is believed to be due to antiseptic properties of spider silk and because the silk is rich in vitamin K, which can be effective in clotting blood. Due to the difficulties in extracting and processing substantial amounts of spider silk, the largest known piece of cloth made of spider silk is an textile with a golden tint made in Madagascar in 2009. Eighty-two people worked for four years to collect over one million golden orb spiders and extract silk from them.\n\nThe silk of \"Nephila clavipes\" was used in research concerning mammalian neuronal regeneration.\n\nSpider silk has been used as a thread for crosshairs in optical instruments such as telescopes, microscopes, and telescopic rifle sights. In 2011, spider silk fibres were used in the field of optics to generate very fine diffraction patterns over N-slit interferometric signals used in optical communications. In 2012, spider silk fibres were used to create a set of violin strings.\n\nDevelopment of methods to mass-produce spider silk has led to manufacturing of military, medical and consumer goods, such as ballistics armour, athletic footwear, personal care products, breast implant and catheter coatings, mechanical insulin pumps, fashion clothing, and outerwear.\n\nReplicating the complex conditions required to produce fibres that are comparable to spider silk has proven difficult in research and early-stage manufacturing. Through genetic engineering, \"Escherichia coli\" bacteria, yeasts, plants, silkworms, and animals have been used to produce spider silk proteins, which have different, simpler characteristics than those from a spider. Artificial spider silks have fewer and simpler proteins than natural dragline silk, and are consequently half the diameter, strength, and flexibility of natural dragline silk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32081474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32081474", "title": "Spindle oil", "text": "Spindle oil\n\nSpindle oils are a type of low-viscosity mineral oil marketed for use in lubrication of high-speed machine spindles. Spindle oil is free from gumming properties.\nSince the viscosity is so low that the oil runs off the surface of the spindle during shut-down periods, the spindle oil may be doped with additives that prevent rusting. Since the spindle oil often is used in textile factories, it is also important that it doesn't stain the textiles.\n"}
{"id": "47454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47454", "title": "Stratosphere", "text": "Stratosphere\n\nThe stratosphere () is the second major layer of Earth's atmosphere, just above the troposphere, and below the mesosphere. The stratosphere is stratified in temperature, with warmer layers higher and cooler layers closer to the Earth; this increase of temperature with altitude is a result of the absorption of the Sun's ultraviolet radiation by the ozone layer. This is in contrast to the troposphere, near the Earth's surface, where temperature decreases with altitude. The border between the troposphere and stratosphere, the tropopause, marks where this temperature inversion begins. Near the equator, the stratosphere starts at as high as , around at midlatitudes, and at about at the poles. Temperatures range from an average of near the tropopause to an average of near the mesosphere. Stratospheric temperatures also vary within the stratosphere as the seasons change, reaching particularly low temperatures in the polar night (winter). Winds in the stratosphere can far exceed those in the troposphere, reaching near in the Southern polar vortex.\n\nThe mechanism describing the formation of the ozone layer was described by British mathematician Sydney Chapman in 1930. Molecular oxygen absorbs high energy sunlight in the UV-C region, at wavelengths shorter than about 240 nm. Radicals produced from the homolytically split oxygen molecules combine with molecular oxygen to form ozone. Ozone in turn is photolysed much more rapidly than molecular oxygen as it has a stronger absorption that occurs at longer wavelengths, where the solar emission is more intense. Ozone (O) photolysis produces O and O. The oxygen atom product combines with atmospheric molecular oxygen to reform O, releasing heat. The rapid photolysis and reformation of ozone heats the stratosphere resulting in a temperature inversion. This increase of temperature with altitude is characteristic of the stratosphere; its resistance to vertical mixing means that it is stratified. Within the stratosphere temperatures increase with altitude \"(see temperature inversion)\"; the top of the stratosphere has a temperature of about 270 K (−3°C or 26.6°F). This vertical stratification, with warmer layers above and cooler layers below, makes the stratosphere dynamically stable: there is no regular convection and associated turbulence in this part of the atmosphere. However, exceptionally energetic convection processes, such as volcanic eruption columns and overshooting tops in severe supercell thunderstorms, may carry convection into the stratosphere on a very local and temporary basis. Overall the attenuation of solar UV at wavelengths that damage DNA by the ozone layer allows life to exist on the surface of the planet outside of the ocean. All air entering the stratosphere must pass through the tropopause, the temperature minimum that divides the troposphere and stratosphere. The rising air is literally freeze dried; the stratosphere is a very dry place. The top of the stratosphere is called the stratopause, above which the temperature decreases with height.\n\nSydney Chapman gave a correct description of the source of stratospheric ozone and its ability to generate heat within the stratosphere; he also wrote that ozone may be destroyed by reacting with atomic oxygen, making two molecules of molecular oxygen. We now know that there are additional ozone loss mechanisms, and that these mechanisms are catalytic meaning that a small amount of the catalyst can destroy a great number of ozone molecules. The first is due to the reaction of hydroxyl radicals OH· with ozone. OH is formed by the reaction of electronically excited oxygen atoms produced by ozone photolysis, with water vapor. While the stratosphere is dry, additional water vapor is produced in situ by the photochemical oxidation of methane (CH). The HO radical produced by the reaction of OH with O is recycled to OH by reaction with oxygen atoms or ozone. In addition, solar proton events can significantly affect ozone levels via radiolysis with the subsequent formation of OH . Laughing gas or nitrous oxide (NO) is produced by biological activity at the surface and is oxidised to NO in the stratosphere; the so-called NOx radical cycles also deplete stratospheric ozone. Finally, chlorofluorocarbon molecules are photolysed in the stratosphere releasing chlorine atoms that react with ozone giving ClO and O. The chlorine atoms are recycled when ClO reacts with O in the upper stratosphere, or when ClO reacts with itself in the chemistry of the Antarctic ozone hole.\n\nPaul J. Crutzen, Mario J. Molina and F. Sherwood Rowland were awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1995 for their work describing the formation and decomposition of stratospheric ozone.\n\nCommercial airliners typically cruise at altitudes of which is in the lower reaches of the stratosphere in temperate latitudes. This optimizes fuel efficiency, mostly due to the low temperatures encountered near the tropopause and low air density, reducing parasitic drag on the airframe. Stated another way, it allows the airliner to fly faster while maintaining lift equal to the weight of the plane. (The fuel consumption depends on the drag, which is related to the lift by the lift-to-drag ratio.) It also allows the airplane to stay above the turbulent weather of the troposphere.\n\nThe Concorde aircraft cruised at mach 2 at about , and the SR-71 cruised at mach 3 at , all within the stratosphere.\n\nBecause the temperature in the tropopause and lower stratosphere is largely constant with increasing altitude, very little convection and its resultant turbulence occurs there. Most turbulence at this altitude is caused by variations in the jet stream and other local wind shears, although areas of significant convective activity (thunderstorms) in the troposphere below may produce turbulence as a result of convective overshoot.\n\nOn October 24, 2014, Alan Eustace became the record holder for reaching the altitude record for a manned balloon at . Dr Eustace also broke the world records for vertical speed skydiving, reached with a peak velocity of 1,321 km/h (822 mph) and total freefall distance of – lasting four minutes and 27 seconds.\n\nThe stratosphere is a region of intense interactions among radiative, dynamical, and chemical processes, in which the horizontal mixing of gaseous components proceeds much more rapidly than does vertical mixing. The overall circulation of the stratosphere is termed as Brewer-Dobson circulation, which is a single celled circulation, spanning from the tropics up to the poles, consisting of the tropical upwelling of air from the tropical troposphere and the extra-tropical downwelling of air. Stratospheric Circulation is a pre-dominantly wave-driven circulation in that the tropical upwelling is induced by the wave force by the westward propagating Rossby Waves, in a phenomenon called Rossby-Wave pumping.\n\nAn interesting feature of stratospheric circulation is the QBO in the tropical latitudes, which is driven by gravity waves that are convectively generated in the troposphere. The QBO induces a secondary circulation that is important for the global stratospheric transport of tracers, such as ozone or water vapor.\n\nAnother large-scale feature that significantly influences Stratospheric Circulation is the breaking planetary waves resulting in intense quasi-horizontal mixing in the midlatitudes. This breaking is much more pronounced in the winter hemisphere where this region is called the surf zone. This breaking is caused due to a highly non-linear interaction between the vertically propagating planetary waves and the isolated high potential vorticity region known as Polar Vortex. The resultant breaking causes large scale mixing of air and other trace gases throughout the midlatitude surf zone. The timescale of this rapid mixing is much smaller than the much slower timescales of upwelling in the tropics and downwelling in the extratropics.\n\nDuring northern hemispheric winters, sudden stratospheric warmings, caused by the absorption of Rossby waves in the stratosphere, can be observed in approximately half of winters when easterly winds develop in the stratosphere. These events often precede unusual winter weather and may even be responsible for the cold European winters of the 1960s.\n\nStratospheric warming of the polar vortex results in its weakening. When the vortex is strong, it keeps the cold, high pressure air masses \"contained\" in the arctic; when the vortex weakens, air masses move equatorward, and results in rapid changes of weather in the mid latitudes.\n\nBacterial life survives in the stratosphere, making it a part of the biosphere. In 2001 an Indian experiment, involving a high-altitude balloon, was carried out at a height of 41 kilometres and a sample of dust was collected with bacterial material inside.\n\nSome bird species have been reported to fly at the lower levels of the stratosphere. On November 29, 1973, a Rüppell's vulture (\"Gyps rueppelli\") was ingested into a jet engine above the Ivory Coast, and bar-headed geese (\"Anser indicus\") reportedly overfly Mount Everest's summit, which is .\n\nIn 1902 Léon Teisserenc de Bort from France and Richard Assmann from Germany, in separate but coordinated publications and following years of observations, published the discovery of an isothermal layer at around 11–14 km, which is the base of the lower stratosphere. This was based on temperature profiles from mostly unmanned and a few manned instrumented balloons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "802513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=802513", "title": "Symbiosis (film)", "text": "Symbiosis (film)\n\nSymbiosis was a 70 mm film shown from October 1982 to January 1995 in the Harvest Theater at The Land pavilion at Epcot at the Walt Disney World Resort in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. It was directed by Paul Gerber and narrated by veteran voice-actor Philip L. Clarke.\n\nThe movie focused on the balance between technological expansion and the protection of the environment. The film showed environmental damage caused by humans and what is being done to fix the damage created.\n\nIt closed on January 1, 1995 and was replaced by \"\". The new film featured some re-edited footage from \"Symbiosis\".\n\nThe film has since been shown at film festivals specialising in the 70 mm film format; at the National Media Museum in 1998, and in Karlsruhe, Germany in 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11254565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11254565", "title": "Synchronization (alternating current)", "text": "Synchronization (alternating current)\n\nIn an alternating current electric power system, synchronization is the process of matching the speed and frequency of a generator or other source to a running network. An AC generator cannot deliver power to an electrical grid unless it is running at the same frequency as the network. If two segments of a grid are disconnected, they cannot exchange AC power again until they are brought back into exact synchronization.\n\nA direct current (DC) generator can be connected to a power network by adjusting its open-circuit terminal voltage to match the network voltage, by either adjusting its speed or its field excitation. The exact engine speed is not critical. However, an AC generator must match both the amplitude and the timing of the network voltage, which requires both speed and excitation to be systematically controlled for synchronization. This extra complexity was one of the arguments against AC operation during the War of Currents in the 1880s. In modern grids, synchronization of generators is carried out by automatic systems.\n\nThere are five conditions that must be met before the synchronization process takes place. The source (generator or sub-network) must have equal line voltage, frequency, phase sequence, phase angle, and waveform to that of the system to which it is being synchronized.\n\nWaveform and phase sequence are fixed by the construction of the generator and its connections to the system. During installation of a generator, careful checks are made to ensure the generator terminals and all control wiring is correct so that the order of phases (phase sequence) matches the system. Connecting a generator with the wrong phase sequence will result in a short circuit as the system voltages are opposite to those of the generator terminal voltages.\n\nThe voltage, frequency and phase angle must be controlled each time a generator is to be connected to a grid.\n\nGenerating units for connection to a power grid have an inherent droop speed control that allows them to share load proportional to their rating. Some generator units, especially in isolated systems, operate with isochronous frequency control, maintaining constant system frequency independent of load.\n\nThe sequence of events is similar for manual or automatic synchronization. The generator is brought up to approximate synchronous speed by supplying more energy to its shaft - for example, opening the valves on a steam turbine, opening the gates on a hydraulic turbine, or increasing the fuel rack setting on a diesel engine. The field of the generator is energized and the voltage at the terminals of the generator is observed and compared with the system. The voltage magnitude must be the same as the system voltage.\n\nIf one machine is slightly out of phase it will pull into step with the others but, if the phase difference is large, there will be heavy cross-currents which can cause voltage fluctuations and, in extreme cases, damage to the machines.\nFormerly, three light bulbs were connected between the generator terminals and the system terminals (or more generally, to the terminals of instrument transformers connected to generator and system). As the generator speed changes, the lights will flicker at the beat frequency proportional to the difference between generator frequency and system frequency. When the voltage at the generator is opposite to the system voltage (either ahead or behind in phase), the lamps will be bright. When the voltage at the generator matches the system voltage, the lights will be dark. At that instant, the circuit breaker connecting the generator to the system may be closed and the generator will then stay in synchronism with the system.\n\nAn alternative technique used a similar scheme to the above except that the connections of two of the lamps were swapped either at the generator terminals or the system terminals. In this scheme, when the generator was in synchronism with the system, one lamp would be dark, but the two with the swapped connections would be of equal brightness. Synchronizing on \"dark\" lamps was preferred over \"bright\" lamps because it was easier to discern the minimum brightness. However, a lamp burnout could give a false-positive for successful synchronization.\n\nAnother manual method of synchronization relies on observing an instrument called a \"synchroscope\", which displays the relative frequencies of system and generator. The pointer of the synchroscope will indicate \"fast\" or \"slow\" speed of the generator with respect to the system. To minimize the transient current when the generator circuit breaker is closed, usual practice is to initiate the close as the needle slowly approaches the in-phase point. An error of a few electrical degrees between system and generator will result in a momentary inrush and abrupt speed change of the generator.\n\nSynchronizing relays allow unattended synchronization of a machine with a system. Today these are digital microprocessor instruments, but in the past electromechanical relay systems were applied. A synchronizing relay is useful to remove human reaction time from the process, or when a human is not available such as at a remote controlled generating plant. Synchroscopes or lamps are sometimes installed as a supplement to automatic relays, for possible manual use or for monitoring the generating unit.\n\nSometimes as a precaution against out-of-step connection of a machine to a system, a \"synchro check\" relay is installed that prevents closing the generator circuit breaker unless the machine is within a few electrical degrees of being in-phase with the system. Synchro check relays are also applied in places where several sources of supply may be connected and where it is important that out-of-step sources are not accidentally paralleled.\n\nWhile the generator is synchronized, the frequency of the system will change depending on load and the average characteristics of all the generating units connected to the grid. Large changes in system frequency can cause the generator to fall out of synchronism with the system. Protective devices on the generator will operate to disconnect it automatically.\n\nSynchronous speeds for synchronous motors and alternators depend on the number of poles on the machine and the frequency of the supply.\n\nThe relationship between the supply frequency, \"f\", the number of poles, \"p\", and the synchronous speed (speed of rotating field), \"n\" is given by:\n\nIn the following table, frequencies are shown in hertz (Hz) and rotational speeds in revolutions per minute (rpm):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11619556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11619556", "title": "Tachyonic antitelephone", "text": "Tachyonic antitelephone\n\nA tachyonic antitelephone is a hypothetical device in theoretical physics that could be used to send signals into one's own past. Albert Einstein in 1907\npresented a thought experiment of how faster-than-light signals can lead to a paradox of causality, which was described by Einstein and Arnold Sommerfeld in 1910 as a means \"to telegraph into the past\". The same thought experiment was described by Richard Chace Tolman in 1917; thus, it is also known as Tolman's paradox.\n\nA device capable of \"telegraphing into the past\" was later also called a \"tachyonic antitelephone\" by Gregory Benford et al. According to the current understanding of physics, no such faster-than-light transfer of information is actually possible. For instance, the hypothetical tachyon particles which give the device its name do not exist even theoretically in the standard model of particle physics, due to tachyon condensation, and there is no experimental evidence that suggests that they might exist. The problem of detecting tachyons via causal contradictions was treated but without scientific verification.\n\nTolman used the following variation of Einstein's thought experiment: Imagine a distance with endpoints formula_1 and formula_2. Let a signal be sent from A propagating with velocity formula_3 towards B. All of this is measured in an inertial frame where the endpoints are at rest. The arrival at B is given by:\n\nHere, the event at A is the cause of the event at B. However, in the inertial frame moving with relative velocity \"v\", the time of arrival at B is given according to the Lorentz transformation:\n\nIt can be easily shown that if \"a > c\", then certain values of \"v\" can make \"Δt' \" negative. In other words, the effect arises before the cause in this frame. Einstein (and similarly Tolman) concluded that this result contains in their view no logical contradiction; he said, however, it contradicts the totality of our experience so that the impossibility of \"a > c\" seems to be sufficiently proven.\n\nA more common variation of this thought experiment is to send back the signal to the sender (a similar one was given by David Bohm). Suppose Alice (A) is on a spacecraft moving away from the Earth in the positive x-direction with a speed formula_6, and she wants to communicate with Bob (B) back home. Assume both of them have a device that is capable of transmitting and receiving faster-than-light signals at a speed of formula_3formula_8 with formula_9. Alice uses this device to send a message to Bob, who sends a reply back. Let us choose the origin of the coordinates of Bob's reference frame, formula_10, to coincide with the reception of Alice's message to him. If Bob immediately sends a message back to Alice, then in his rest frame the coordinates of the reply signal (in natural units so that \"c\"=1) are given by:\n\nTo find out when the reply is received by Alice, we perform a Lorentz transformation to Alice's frame formula_12 moving in the positive x-direction with velocity formula_6 with respect to the Earth. In this frame Alice is at rest at position formula_14, where formula_15 is the distance that the signal Alice sent to Earth traversed in her rest frame. The coordinates of the reply signal are given by:\n\nThe reply is received by Alice when formula_14. This means that formula_19 and thus:\n\nSince the message Alice sent to Bob took a time of formula_21 to reach him, the message she receives back from him will reach her at time:\n\nlater than she sent her message. However, if formula_23 then formula_24 and Alice will receive the message back from Bob before she sends her message to him in the first place.\n\nAs an example, imagine that Alice and Bob are aboard spaceships moving inertially with a relative speed of 0.8\"c\". At some point they pass right next to each other, and Alice defines the position and time of their passing to be at position \"x\" = 0, time \"t\" = 0 in her frame, while Bob defines it to be at position \"x′\" = 0 and time \"t′\" = 0 in his frame (note that this is different from the convention used in the previous section, where the origin of the coordinates was the event of Bob receiving a tachyon signal from Alice). In Alice's frame she remains at rest at position \"x\" = 0, while Bob is moving in the positive \"x\" direction at 0.8\"c\"; in Bob's frame he remains at rest at position \"x′\" = 0, and Alice is moving in the negative \"x′\" direction at 0.8\"c\". Each one also has a tachyon transmitter aboard their ship, which sends out signals that move at 2.4\"c\" in the ship's own frame.\n\nWhen Alice's clock shows that 300 days have elapsed since she passed next to Bob (\"t\" = 300 days in her frame), she uses the tachyon transmitter to send a message to Bob, saying \"Ugh, I just ate some bad shrimp\". At \"t\" = 450 days in Alice's frame, she calculates that since the tachyon signal has been traveling away from her at 2.4\"c\" for 150 days, it should now be at position x = 2.4×150 = 360 light-days in her frame, and since Bob has been traveling away from her at 0.8\"c\" for 450 days, he should now be at position \"x\" = 0.8×450 = 360 light-days in her frame as well, meaning that this is the moment the signal catches up with Bob. So, in her frame Bob receives Alice's message at \"x\" = 360, \"t\" = 450. Due to the effects of time dilation, in her frame Bob is aging more slowly than she is by a factor of formula_25, in this case 0.6, so Bob's clock only shows that 0.6×450 = 270 days have elapsed when he receives the message, meaning that in his frame he receives it at \"x′\" = 0, \"t′\" = 270.\n\nWhen Bob receives Alice's message, he immediately uses his own tachyon transmitter to send a message back to Alice saying \"Don't eat the shrimp!\". 135 days later in his frame, at \"t′\" = 270 + 135 = 405, he calculates that since the tachyon signal has been traveling away from him at 2.4\"c\" in the −\"x′\" direction for 135 days, it should now be at position \"x′\" = −2.4×135 = −324 light-days in his frame, and since Alice has been traveling at 0.8\"c\" in the −\"x\" direction for 405 days, she should now be at position \"x′\" = −0.8×405 = −324 light-days as well. So, in his frame Alice receives his reply at \"x′\" = −324, \"t′\" = 405. Time dilation for inertial observers is symmetrical, so in Bob's frame Alice is aging more slowly than he is, by the same factor of 0.6, so Alice's clock should only show that 0.6×405 = 243 days have elapsed when she receives his reply. This means that she receives a message from Bob saying \"Don't eat the shrimp!\" only 243 days after she passed Bob, while she wasn't supposed to send the message saying \"Ugh, I just ate some bad shrimp\" until 300 days elapsed since she passed Bob, so Bob's reply constitutes a warning about her own future.\n\nThese numbers can be double-checked using the Lorentz transformation. The Lorentz transformation says that if we know the coordinates \"x\", \"t\" of some event in Alice's frame, the same event must have the following \"x′\", \"t′\" coordinates in Bob's frame:\n\nWhere \"v\" is Bob's speed along the \"x\"-axis in Alice's frame, c is the speed of light (we are using units of days for time and light-days for distance, so in these units \"c\" = 1), and formula_27 is the Lorentz factor. In this case \"v\"=0.8\"c\", and formula_28. In Alice's frame, the event of Alice sending the message happens at \"x\" = 0, \"t\" = 300, and the event of Bob receiving Alice's message happens at \"x\" = 360, \"t\" = 450. Using the Lorentz transformation, we find that in Bob's frame the event of Alice sending the message happens at position \"x′\" = (1/0.6)×(0 − 0.8×300) = −400 light-days, and time \"t′\" = (1/0.6)×(300 − 0.8×0) = 500 days. Likewise, in Bob's frame the event of Bob receiving Alice's message happens at position \"x′\" = (1/0.6)×(360 − 0.8×450) = 0 light-days, and time \"t′\" = (1/0.6)×(450 − 0.8×360) = 270 days, which are the same coordinates for Bob's frame that were found in the earlier paragraph.\n\nComparing the coordinates in each frame, we see that in Alice's frame her tachyon signal moves forwards in time (she sent it at an earlier time than Bob received it), and between being sent and received we have (difference in position)/(difference in time) = 360/150 = 2.4\"c\". In Bob's frame, Alice's signal moves back in time (he received it at \"t′\" = 270, but it was sent at \"t′\" = 500), and it has a (difference in position)/(difference in time) of 400/230, about 1.739\"c\". The fact that the two frames disagree about the order of the events of the signal being sent and received is an example of the relativity of simultaneity, a feature of relativity which has no analogue in classical physics, and which is key to understanding why in relativity FTL communication must necessarily lead to causality violation.\n\nBob is assumed to have sent his reply almost instantaneously after receiving Alice's message, so the coordinates of his sending the reply can be assumed to be the same: \"x\" = 360, \"t\" = 450 in Alice's frame, and \"x′\" = 0, \"t′\" = 270 in Bob's frame. If the event of Alice receiving Bob's reply happens at \"x′\" = 0, \"t′\" = 243 in her frame (as in the earlier paragraph), then according to the Lorentz transformation, in Bob's frame Alice receives his reply at position \"x′\"' = (1/0.6)×(0 − 0.8×243) = −324 light-days, and at time \"t′\" = (1/0.6)×(243 − 0.8×0) = 405 days. So evidently Bob's reply does move forward in time in his own frame, since the time it was sent was \"t′\" = 270 and the time it was received was \"t′\" = 405. And in his frame (difference in position)/(difference in time) for his signal is 324/135 = 2.4\"c\", exactly the same as the speed of Alice's original signal in her own frame. Likewise, in Alice's frame Bob's signal moves backwards in time (she received it before he sent it), and it has a (difference in position)/(difference in time) of 360/207, about 1.739\"c\".\n\nThus the times of sending and receiving in each frame, as calculated using the Lorentz transformation, match up with the times given in earlier paragraphs, before we made explicit use of the Lorentz transformation. And by using the Lorentz transformation we can see that the two tachyon signals behave symmetrically in each observer's frame: the observer who sends a given signal measures it to move forward in time at 2.4\"c\", the observer who receives it measures it to move back in time at 1.739\"c\". This sort of possibility for symmetric tachyon signals is necessary if tachyons are to respect the first of the two postulates of special relativity, which says that all laws of physics must work exactly the same in all inertial frames. This implies that if it's possible to send a signal at 2.4\"c\" in one frame, it must be possible in any other frame as well, and likewise if one frame can observe a signal that moves backwards in time, any other frame must be able to observe such a phenomenon as well. This is another key idea in understanding why FTL communication leads to causality violation in relativity; if tachyons were allowed to have a \"preferred frame\" in violation of the first postulate of relativity, in that case it could theoretically be possible to avoid causality violations.\n\nBenford et al. wrote about such paradoxes in general, offering a scenario in which two parties are able to send a message two hours into the past:\n\nThey concluded that superluminal particles such as tachyons are therefore not allowed to convey signals.\n\nIn recent decades, there have been various proposed ways to possibly remove such paradoxes, either by invoking the Novikov self-consistency principle or through the idea of branching timelines in the context of the many-worlds interpretation.\n\n"}
