{"id": "2689389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2689389", "title": "Alcoholic beverage control state", "text": "Alcoholic beverage control state\n\nAlcoholic beverage control states, generally called control states, are 17 states in the United States that, as of 2016, have state monopoly over the wholesaling or retailing of some or all categories of alcoholic beverages, such as beer, wine, and distilled spirits.\n\nAt the beginning of the temperance movement in the United States, many states controlled where and when alcohol could be sold. Before this time, most alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption were often sold just like any other item of commerce in stores or bars. Because of heavy lobbying by temperance groups in various states, most required off-premises beverages to be sold in dedicated stores (primarily called dispensaries) with controls over their location. To further enhance oversight of beverage sales, some states such as South Carolina operated state-run dispensaries.\n\nFollowing repeal of national prohibition in the U.S. in 1933, some states initially decided to continue their own prohibition against the production, distribution, and sale of alcoholic beverages within their borders. Other states decided to leave the issue to local jurisdictions, including counties and cities, a practice called local option.\n\nStates were also able to restrict the importation of \"intoxicating liquors\" into their territory under the provisions of the Twenty-first Amendment to the United States Constitution which, while ending the Federal role in alcohol control, exempted liquor from the constitutional rule reserving the regulation of interstate commerce to the federal government. Thus states which wished to continue prohibition could do so.\n\nAmong those states which chose not to maintain complete prohibition over alcoholic beverages, approximately one-third established government monopolies while the remaining two-thirds established private \"license systems\". In its simplest terms, the license system allows private enterprises to buy and sell alcohol at state discretion. In actual effect, the license operates as a device of restraint and not merely a grant of privilege or freedom. In a constitutional sense, the license confers no property right and the exercise of its privilege is continuously contingent upon the holder’s compliance with required conditions and the general discretion of the licensing authority.\n\nThe remaining states adopted the monopoly system of regulation, the more cautious of the two regulatory frameworks. As alluded to above, under the monopoly plan the government takes over the wholesale trade and conducts the retail sale of heavier alcoholic beverages through its own stores. That is, the state itself engages in the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages. Most of these states have an \"\"Alcoholic Beverage Control\" (ABC)\" board and run liquor stores called \"ABC stores\". In all monopoly states a parallel license system is used to regulate the sale and distribution of lighter alcoholic beverages such as beer and wine.\n\nBeginning in the 1960s onward, many control states loosened their monopoly of beverage sales. States like West Virginia and Washington sold all of their state liquor stores to private owners, while others like Vermont permit private store owners to sell alcohol on behalf of the state for a commission.\n\nThe 17 control or monopoly states are:\n\nAbout one-quarter of the United States population lives in liquor control or government monopoly states.\n\nMaryland as a whole is not a control state, and private liquor stores sell beer, wine, and spirits in most of the state, but under state law, Montgomery, Somerset and Wicomico counties are county alcohol-controlled, which mandates that off-premises liquor sales are to be conducted only at county-owned and operated stores. An exception exists in Montgomery County, in that four grocery stores have grandfathered licenses. Dorchester County was an alcohol control county until 2008, when the County Council voted to permanently close the county-owned liquor dispensaries, with subsequent change in the state law. Worcester County was an alcohol control county until July 2014, when the Maryland General Assembly abolished the Liquor Control Board by statute, replacing it with the Department of Liquor Control.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22385471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22385471", "title": "Andrejeva v Latvia", "text": "Andrejeva v Latvia\n\nAndrejeva v. Latvia (55707/00) was a case decided by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in 2009. It has concerned \"ex parte\" proceedings and discrimination in calculating retirement pensions for non-citizens of Latvia.\n\nMs. N. Andrejeva, a non-citizen of Latvia, was employed at a recycling plant at the Olaine chemical complex, formerly a public body under the authority of the USSR Ministry of Chemical Industry and located in Latvia.\n\nAccording to the Latvian State Pensions Act, only periods of work in Latvia could be taken into account in calculating the pensions of non-citizens of Latvia, unlike citizens of Latvia. \n\nAs the applicant had been employed from 1973 to 1990 by entities based in Kiev and Moscow, her pension was calculated solely in respect of the time she had worked before and after that period. Latvian courts agreed with the administration. \n\nBesides, during the proceedings before the Supreme Court of Latvia, N. Andrejeva was unable to take part in the hearing of 6 October 1999 as it had started earlier than scheduled.\n\nApplication was lodged with the Court on 27 February 2000. It was declared partly admissible on 11 July 2006 (meanwhile, the Constitutional Court of Latvia has found the provisions in question constitutional, hearing a case after a complaint by MPs of ForHRUL and LSDSP). On 11 December 2007 the Chamber has relinquished the case to the Grand Chamber. The Grand Chamber has held public hearing on 25 June 2008 and delivered its judgment, which was the third Grand Chamber judgment on the merits in a case against Latvia at all, after \"Slivenko\" and \"Ždanoka\", on 18 February 2009.\n\nThe applicant was represented before the court by V. Buzajevs and A. Dimitrovs, members of Latvian Human Rights Committee.\n\nThe Court has unanimously concluded that the fact N. Andrejeva was unable to take part in the hearing of 6 October 1999 as it had started earlier than scheduled was violating Article 6 of ECHR.\n\nConcerning government's objections that \"In view of the financial burden borne by Latvia and the limited capacity of its national budget, it was not unreasonable for it to assume full responsibility for the pensions of its own citizens alone\" (para. 71) and \"the situation complained of was largely the fault of the applicant herself, who had refused to apply for naturalisation despite having been entitled to do so since 1998. The sooner she did so, the sooner she would receive the desired portion of her pension\" (para. 72), the Court concluded that Ms. Andrejeva already \"has the status of a “permanently resident non-citizen” of Latvia, the only State with which she has any stable legal ties and thus the only State which, objectively, can assume responsibility for her in terms of social security\" (para. 88) and that \"dismissing the victim's claims on the ground that he or she could have avoided the discrimination by altering one of the factors in question – for example, by acquiring a nationality – would render Article 14 devoid of substance\" (para. 91).\n\nThe Court accepted that the difference in treatment between non-citizens and citizens pursued at least one legitimate aim that was broadly compatible with the general objectives of the Convention, namely the protection of the country’s economic system. However, it didn't find a “reasonable relationship of proportionality” between the legitimate aim pursued and the means employed. The Court therefore found a violation of Article 14 taken in conjunction with Article 1 of Protocol No. 1, by 16 votes to 1.\n\nJudge Ineta Ziemele didn't find violation of Article 14 taken in conjunction with Article 1 of Protocol No. 1 in the case, considering that \"saying or implying that Latvia has some automatic obligations stemming from the Soviet period would defy the fact that the occupation and annexation of Latvia were illegal in international law\" (para. 22., italicized by I. Ziemele).\n\nN. Andrejeva was awarded 6500 EUR: 5000 EUR in respect of all damage sustained and 1500 EUR in respect of costs and expenses.\n\nIn order to implement the judgment, amendments to the State Pensions Act were adopted in the first reading. They foresaw to abolish discrimination by cancelling rights of citizens of Latvia to receive pensions for all time worked in the USSR outside Latvia, so that both citizens and non-citizens would receive pensions for this time only in certains cases. In December, 2009, the deciding on the amendments was postponed. Those amendments were criticized by the Equal Rights Trust.\n\nOn October 12, 2009, Mrs. Andrejeva submitted an application to the administrative court, since she was refused to recalculate her pension by authorities. She died in April, 2010, while the case on recalculating the pension was still pending.\n\nIn February, 2011, the Constitutional Court of Latvia, upon a complaint of several other non-citizens, found the provisions in question compatible with the provisions of constitution and ECHR. In August, 2011, a new application to the ECtHR by the same non-citizens concerning those provisions was registered.\n\nIn February, 2012, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance has published its report on Latvia, noting that \"the Constitutional Court's decision, at best, gives a very narrow interpretation of the ECtHR's judgment\" and that the approach taken by authorities \"fails to address the 'non-citizens', who have worked in the remaining 9 former USSR republics, in respect of which a bilateral agreement has not been signed. This, according to the ECtHR's Andrejeva judgment, amounts to discrimination\".\n\nIn 2012, the Latvian Human Rights Committee has submitted a communication to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the lack of implementation of the judgment, which was responded by the agent of the Latvian government.\n\nIn 2013, the Advisory Committee on the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities adopted its second opinion on Latvia, stating \"Regarding access to pensions, the Advisory Committee regrets that the 2009 Andrejeva Judgment of the European Court on Human Rights has not led to a comprehensive solution regarding the calculation of pensions of citizens and \"non-citizens\". It notes the Government's view that the judgment has been implemented by signing bilateral agreements with the Russian Federation and a number of other countries in which \"non-citizens\" spent periods of employment under the Soviet Union, but remains concerned by the fact that these agreements do not cover all former republics of the Soviet Union and are therefore not suitable to address the situation vis-à-vis all \"non-citizens\". It notes with interest reports of a new case relating to the calculation of pension benefits having been\nregistered at the European Court of Human Rights following the rejection of the Constitutional Court in February 2011 of the complaints of five \"non-citizens\" relating to relevant sections of the State Pension Act\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18589346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18589346", "title": "Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement", "text": "Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement\n\nThe Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) was a proposed multinational treaty for the purpose of establishing international standards for intellectual property rights enforcement. The agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods, generic medicines and copyright infringement on the Internet, and would create a new governing body outside existing forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the World Intellectual Property Organization, and the United Nations.\n\nThe agreement was signed in October 2011 by Australia, Canada, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, and the United States. In 2012, Mexico, the European Union and 22 countries that are member states of the European Union signed as well. One signatory (Japan) has ratified (formally approved) the agreement, which would come into force in countries that ratified it after ratification by six countries.\n\nIndustrial groups with interests in copyright, trademarks and other types of intellectual property said that ACTA was a response to \"the increase in global trade of counterfeit goods and pirated copyright protected works\". Organizations such as the Motion Picture Association of America and International Trademark Association are understood to have had a significant influence over the ACTA agenda.\n\nOrganisations representing citizens and non-governmental interests argued that ACTA could infringe fundamental rights including freedom of expression and privacy. ACTA has also been criticised by Doctors Without Borders for endangering access to medicines in developing countries. The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups, developing countries and the general public from the agreement's negotiation process and it has been described as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association.\n\nThe signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in widespread protests across Europe. European Parliament rapporteur Kader Arif resigned. His replacement, British MEP David Martin, recommended that the Parliament should reject ACTA, stating: \"The intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties\". On 4 July 2012, the European Parliament declined its consent, effectively rejecting it, 478 votes to 39, with 165 abstentions.\n\nNegotiations for the ACTA treaty are not part of any international body. ACTA was first developed by Japan and the United States in 2006. Canada, the European Union (represented in the negotiations by the European Commission, the EU Presidency and EU Member States) and Switzerland joined the preliminary talks throughout 2006 and 2007. Official negotiations began in June 2008, with Australia, Mexico, Morocco, New Zealand, the Republic of Korea and Singapore joining the talks. The Senate of Mexico voted unanimously to withdraw Mexico from ACTA negotiations on 30 September 2010.\n\nACTA first came to public attention in May 2008 after a discussion paper was uploaded to WikiLeaks. According to a European Union commentary however there was at that stage no draft, but the document constituted initial views as they had been circulated by some of the negotiating parties. Leaked details published in February 2009 showed the 6 chapter-division also present in the final text. Most discussion was focused on the \"Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights\" (IPR) chapter 2, which had the four sections also present (but slightly differently named) in the final version: Civil Enforcement, Border Measures, Criminal Enforcement and Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement in the Digital Environment. Apart from the participating governments, an advisory committee of large US-based multinational corporations was consulted on the content of the draft treaty, including the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America and the International Intellectual Property Alliance (which includes the Business Software Alliance, Motion Picture Association of America, and Recording Industry Association of America). A 2009 Freedom of Information request showed that the following companies also received copies of the draft under a nondisclosure agreement: Google, eBay, Intel, Dell, News Corporation, Sony Pictures, Time Warner, and Verizon.\n\nOn 23 March 2010, the entire \"18 January 2010 consolidated text\" of sections 2.1 and 2.4 (Civil Enforcement, and Special Measures Related To Technological Enforcement Means and the Internet) along with the demands of each negotiator was leaked to the public.\n\nThe negotiating parties published the then-current draft on 20 April 2010. In June 2010, a conference with \"over 90 academics, practitioners and public interest organizations from six continents\" concluded \"that the terms of the publicly released draft of ACTA threaten numerous public interests, including every concern specifically disclaimed by negotiators.\" A group of over 75 law professors signed a letter to President Obama demanding that ACTA be halted and changed. A full consolidated text of the proposed ACTA, dated 1 July 2010, apparently coming from the civil liberties committee (LIBE) of the European Parliament was leaked providing the full text from the Luzern round of negotiations, including the name of the negotiating parties along with their positions.\n\nThe revised and final text, dated 15 November 2010, was leaked on 16 November 2010 by several websites.\n\nOn 16 April 2010, the negotiating countries issued a joint statement that they had reached unanimous agreement to make the consolidated text, as established at that round of negotiation, available to the public by 21 April. It was also decided to not release individual negotiating positions of countries. The final draft text was published on 20 April 2010. The final text was released on 15 November 2010, and published on 15 April 2011 in English, French and Spanish.\n\nA draft Report from 26 August 2008 by the European Commission tried to establish a mandate from the European Parliament for the negotiation of ACTA. On 25 September 2008 the Council of the European Union adopted a resolution in support of ACTA. In November 2008 the European Commission described ACTA as an attempt to enforce intellectual property rights and states that countries involved in the negotiations see intellectual property rights as \"a key instrument for their development and innovation policies\". It argues:\n\nIn March 2010, a leaked draft negotiation text showed that the European Commission had proposed language in ACTA to require criminal penalties for \"inciting, aiding and abetting\" certain offenses, including \"at least in cases of willful trademark counterfeiting and copyright or related rights piracy on a commercial scale.\" In a report published on 11 March 2009, the European Parliament called on the European Commission to \"immediately make all documents related to the ongoing international negotiations on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) publicly available\".\n\nThe \"European Parliament resolution of 10 March 2010 on the transparency and state of play of the ACTA negotiations\" stated that \"according to documents leaked, the ACTA negotiations touch on, among other things, pending EU legislation regarding the enforcement of IPRs (COD/2005/0127 – Criminal measures aimed at assuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights (IPRED-II)) and the so-called \"Telecoms Package\" and on existing EU legislation regarding e-commerce and data protection.\" The resolution furthermore states, \"whereas the ongoing EU efforts to harmonise IPR enforcement measures should not be circumvented by trade negotiations that are outside the scope of normal EU decision-making processes.\" Also, that the enforcement of intellectual property rights (IPRs), including patent, trademark, and copyright law, must be \"accomplished in a manner that does not impede innovation or competition, undermine IPR limitations and personal data protection, restrict the free flow of information or unduly burden legitimate trade.\"\n\nThe resolution called for the European Commission and the European Council to \"grant public and parliamentary access to ACTA negotiation texts and summaries, in accordance with\" the Lisbon Treaty and \"Regulation 1049/2001 of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents.\" In the resolution, the European Parliament \"deplores the calculated choice of the parties not to negotiate through well-established international bodies, such as WIPO and WTO, which have established frameworks for public information and consultation\". The European Parliament asserted that under the Treaty of Lisbon the European Commission needed to provide \"immediate and full information\" to the European Parliament on international treaties, such as ACTA. The resolution also \"stresses that, unless Parliament is immediately and fully informed at all stages of the negotiations, it reserves its right to take suitable action, including bringing a case before the Court of Justice in order to safeguard its prerogatives\".\n\nAs of 26 December 2014, the treaty was signed -but not all ratified- by 31 states as well as the European Union. Japan was on 4 October 2012 the first to ratify the treaty.\n\nThe treaty is according to Article 39 open for signature until 1 May 2013 for the participants involved in the negotiations as well as all members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) of which the participants agree. It enters into force after subsequent ratification by six states (Article 40). After 1 May 2013, WTO members that did not sign, may accede to the convention after approval by the ACTA committee (Article 43).\n\nA signing ceremony was held on 1 October 2011 in Tokyo, with the United States, Australia, Canada, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, and South Korea signing the treaty. The European Union, Mexico, and Switzerland attended but did not sign, professing support and saying they will do so in the future (the European Union and 22 of its member states did so in January 2012). In May 2012, the Swiss government announced that it would withhold its signature while deliberations in the EU are pending. In early July 2012, Claude Heller, Mexican Ambassador to Japan, signed the treaty. On 23 July, the Senate of Mexico rejected the decision the Cabinet of the country took.\n\nThe European Union and its 28 Member States share competency on the subject of this convention. This means that entry into force on its territory requires ratification (or accession) by all states, as well as approval of the European Union. Approval of the European Union involves consent of the European Parliament as well as the Council. On 26 January 2012, the European Union and 22 Member States signed the treaty in Tokyo. According to depositary Japan, the remaining members (Cyprus, Estonia, Germany, Netherlands and Slovakia) were expected to sign it on the completion of their respective domestic procedures. On 3 February 2012, Poland announced it halted the ratification process as it \"had made insufficient consultations before signing the agreement in late January, and it was necessary to ensure it was entirely safe for Polish citizens.\" Also, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Lithuania and non-signatories Germany, Slovakia and Slovenia<ref name=\"http://www.focus-fen.net\"></ref> have indicated to have stopped the process of becoming a party to the treaty.\nOn 17 February 2012, the Polish prime minister, Donald Tusk, announced that Poland will not ratify ACTA. On 21 February 2012, a news report noted that \"many countries in Europe that have signed the treaty have set aside ratification in response to public outcry, effectively hampering the ratification and implementation of the treaty.\"\n\nWhen Poland announced its intentions to sign the treaty on 18 January 2012, a number of Polish government websites, including those of the President and Polish Parliament, were shut down by denial of service attacks that started 21 January, akin to protests against SOPA and PIPA that had happened two days previously. Notwithstanding the ongoing protests, the Polish ambassador to Japan signed the treaty.\n\nOn 22 February 2012, the European Commission asked the European Court of Justice to assess whether the ACTA agreement violates the EU's fundamental human rights and freedoms, thereby resulting in delay for the ratification process in the EU. However, INTA, the International Trade Committee of the European Parliament, in view of its exclusion from the negotiations, the secrecy of the negotiations, and the recent protests, moved to have its vote on the ratification take place in June or July 2012 as planned, in spite of the European Commission's objections.\n\nOn 2 May 2012, European Commissioner for Digital Agenda Neelie Kroes suggested in a speech in Berlin that ACTA would not come into force and welcomed openness in negotiations:\n\nOn 29 May 2012 the Dutch House of Representatives in two non-binding resolutions called upon the Dutch government not to sign ACTA and not to submit it to the House for ratification. In addition it requested the government not to vote in favor of similar treaties in the future.\n\nThe European Commission confirmed on 20 December 2012 that it was withdrawing Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) referral to the Court of Justice of the European Union (EU). This ended ACTA’s process at EU level and confirms rejection of the treaty by the EU.\n\nOn 26 January 2012, after the signing of 22 European Member States Kader Arif, the European Parliament's rapporteur for ACTA, resigned, saying \"I want to send a strong signal and alert the public opinion about this unacceptable situation. I will not take part in this masquerade.\". He was replaced by David Martin.\n\nOn 12 April 2012, David Martin recommended that the European Parliament should reject ACTA, saying the intended benefits were far outweighed by the risks, and \"given the vagueness of certain aspects of the text and the uncertainty over its interpretation, the European Parliament cannot guarantee adequate protection for citizens' rights in the future under ACTA.\"\n\nACTA was discussed in five parliamentary committees, all of which voted to reject the ACTA treaty, as follows:\n\nThese recommendations of the top 4 committees served as advice for the International Trade Committee, the lead committee on ACTA. On 21 June 2012, this committee recommended 19–12 that the EP reject the treaty. The full European Parliament voted on the issue on 4 July 2012 and declined consent to ACTA, effectively rejecting it, with 478 against to 39 in favour, and 165 abstentions.\n\nIt has been reported that the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) has stated they will not use the fast track negotiating authority (Trade Promotion Authority) to implement ACTA, but the form of a \"sole executive agreement\" instead. While on 6 March 2012 Legal Adviser of the Department of State Harold Koh refused to back USTR's theory that it could enter any agreement that does not change U.S. law (but binds Congress not to change it) without Congressional consent, Koh described ACTA as a \"congressional-executive agreement\" that Congress approved of \"\", citing the PRO-IP Act. This proposed method of adoption has encountered criticism in Congress. According to Senator Ron Wyden: \"There are questions of constitutional authority surrounding whether the administration can enter into this agreement without Congress's approval ... Either way, when international accords, like ACTA, are conceived and constructed under a cloak of secrecy, it is hard to argue that they represent the broad interests of the general public. The controversy over ACTA should surprise no one.\" More recently, on 20 March 2012, Senator Wyden noted, \"I believe Congress should approve binding international agreements before the U.S. is obligated to comply with those agreements. This [is] a point where the administration and I disagree and is particularly true on matters that impact our nation’s ability to implement policies that encourage innovation.\"\n\nIn June 2012, Ambassador Miriam Sapiro (Deputy U.S. Trade Representative) presented the official White House position on ACTA as follows:\n\nACTA establishes the \"ACTA committee\" in Article 36 as its own governing body outside existing international institutions such as the World Trade Organization (WTO), the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) or the United Nations. With regards to the reason for not pursuing ACTA through the G8, WTO, WIPO or other formal existing structures the European Commission explains that a free-standing agreement provides the most flexibility \"to pursue this project among interested countries\", while stating that \"the membership and priorities of those organizations (G8, WTO, and WIPO) simply are not the most conducive to this kind of path breaking project.\"\n\nThe finalized agreement text was published on 15 April 2011 and includes six chapters with 45 articles:\n\nThis Chapter describes the scope of the agreement as well as relations to other agreements. It asserts that obligations from other agreements still exist with entry into force of this agreement (Article 1) and that the agreement applies only those intellectual property rights existing in the country applying the treaty (Article 3). Countries may impose stricter measures than the treaty requires (Article 2) and should share (confidential) information for law enforcement purposes (Article 4). The treaty explicitly also applies to free zones (Article 5).\n\nThe legal framework set out in Chapter II is divided in five sections.\n\nGeneral obligations are requirements to implement the provisions in law, to have fair procedure as well as \"proportionality between the seriousness of the infringement, the interests of third parties, and the applicable measures, remedies and penalties\" (Article 6).\n\nThe sections provides that rights holders have access to civil or (if they exist) administrative procedures (Article 7) and to have the possibility for judges \"to issue an order against a party to desist from an infringement\" (Article 8). They may also require in civil procedure pirated copyright goods and counterfeit trademark goods to be destroyed (Article 10). According to Article 11, they may ask (alleged) infringers to provide information on the goods it \"controls\". Article 9 states that a Party's judicial authorities \"may\" consider \"\" any legitimate measure of value submitted by a rights holder, including lost profits, the value of infringed property as per market price, or the suggested retail price. This clause has received considerable criticism for its validity, as well as its similarity to previously controversial attempts at establishing precedent to the same effect. According to the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure, the principle does not \"reflect the economic loss suffered by the right holder\". In a \"Business Line\" opinion piece, a professor from the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade's Centre for WTO Studies also explained that it would lead to \"excess valuation\" in infringement suits.\n\nAt borders, officials may act on suspect goods on their own initiative or upon request of a \"rights holder\". For goods in transit, the requirements do not have to be enacted by a state (Article 16). \"Small consignment\" for commercial use are included in the border provisions, while \"goods of a non-commercial nature contained in travellers’ personal luggage\" are excluded from the scope (Article 14).\n\nSection 4 of ACTA deals with the criminal enforcement of IPRS according to Professor Michael Blakeney. The primary focus of the section (in Article 23) is the criminalisation of wilful trademark counterfeiting or copyright or related rights piracy on a commercial scale.\n\nAt least \"wilful trademark counterfeiting or copyright or related rights piracy on a commercial scale\" should be punishable under criminal law.\n\nAccording to European Digital Rights, the article \"provides an extremely low threshold\" when considering that the scope includes \"acts\" and because consequences for infringement can include criminal penalties. EDRi also outlines an absence of definitions for associated constructs, such as \"aiding and abetting\", \"commercial scale\", and \"economic advantage\", which it describes as \"simply inappropriate in a key provision, on whose meaning the proportionality and the legality, of the Agreement rests\".\n\nPenalties that Parties should have in their criminal system should \"include imprisonment as well as monetary fines\", which are sufficiently high for discouragement of actions forbidden under the treaty.\n\nIn the digital environment, also Civil and Criminal enforcement should be available \"to permit effective action against an act of infringement of intellectual property rights that takes place in the digital environment\" (Article 27, paragraph 1). Furthermore, infringement over digital networks (\"possibly\" including \"the unlawful use of means of widespread distribution for infringing purposes\") should be enforced in a manner, which \"preserves fundamental principles such as freedom of expression, fair process, and privacy\" (Paragraph 2). Against circumvention of systems to prevent copying measures should be implemented (Paragraph 6).\n\nCritics of this article, such as the European Digital Rights, have raised concerns that its emphasis on the role of corporations in enforcement \"promotes the policing and even punishment of alleged infringements outside normal judicial frameworks\", while failing to \"ensure effective remedies against such interferences with fundamental rights\" despite \"vague references to 'fair process' in the text [that] are not backed up by mandatory processes requiring respect for the Rule of Law\" in Article 21 of the European Union's Maastricht Treaty.\n\nParties are expected to cultivate expertise within agencies tasked with enforcing intellectual property rights, promote internal coordination, and facilitate joint actions. They are also compelled to collect and utilize statistical data, as well as \"other relevant information concerning intellectual property rights infringements\", to prevent and combat infringement as necessary. The article also indicates that parties shall \"endeavour to promote, where appropriate, the establishment and maintenance of formal or informal mechanisms, such as advisory groups, whereby [their] competent authorities may receive the views of right holders and other relevant stakeholders.\"\n\nParties may consult stakeholders or the intellectual property authorities of another party to identify and mitigate risks. Information, including but not limited to information that assists in identifying and targeting suspicious shipments, may be shared between parties for the purposes of border enforcement. Should an importing party seize infringing goods, it may supply such information to assist an exporting party in pursuing infringers.\n\nChapter V contains three articles:\n\n\nIn Article 36, the ACTA committee is established as governing body of the treaty in which all parties are represented. The body is not involved in individual cases, but monitors implementation, can formally propose changes to the convention (on the suggestion of a Party) and decides on the admittance of WTO-members that were not present at the negotiations. The committee decides by consensus. Parties establish a contact point (Article 37) that acts as a primary contact with regards to the execution of the treaty and are required to \"shall accord sympathetic consideration\" to requests for cooperation on matters regarding the convention (Article 38).\n\nChapter VI is the treaty's last chapter. It outlines principles and procedures regarding the treaty's status and execution.\n\nThe article specifies that the agreement remains open for signature until 1 May 2013 by its negotiators, as well as any other World Trade Organization member that the negotiators support by consensus.\n\nConditions necessary for the treaty to become effective are defined, which include six parties submitting instruments of ratification, acceptance, or approval to the depositary, as well as a thirty-day interim waiting period.\n\nThe process for withdrawal is outlined, which entails a party submitting written notification to the depositary and becomes effective 180 days after receipt. This process would also be subject to various national guidelines.\n\nParties may submit proposed amendments to the Committee for review, which would then determine whether or not the proposed amendment should be presented for potential ratification, acceptance, or approval. Successful amendments would become effective 90 days after all parties have provided their respective instruments of ratification, acceptance, or approval to the depositary.\n\nIn a report to the Australian Joint Standing Committee on Treaties, Kimberlee Weatherall, an associate professor at the University of Queensland, assessed the article in saying \"it might be argued that the text of ACTA could be fleshed out through guidelines on an ongoing basis, with possible amendments in the longer term.\" Citing the relationship with Article 33, she added that \"it might further be argued that the exhortations to 'promote cooperation, where appropriate, among [the Parties'] competent authorities', particularly in conjunction with the existence of regular meetings and exchange of information about enforcement practices, creates the basic framework within which more detailed mechanisms can be developed over time\".\n\nAfter the date in Article 39 passes, any WTO member nation may seek to accede into the agreement. The terms of acceptance would be decided by the Committee on an individual, case-by-case basis. The treaty would enter into force for successful applicants thirty days after receipt of its instrument by the depositary.\n\nThe treaty makes equally authoritative English, French and Spanish versions of the text, which for the purposes of signature are part of a single document.\n\nArticle 45 is the final text of the treaty. It elects the Government of Japan as depositary.\n\nOpponents have criticized the act for its adverse effects on fundamental civil and digital rights, including freedom of expression and communication privacy. The Electronic Frontier Foundation among others, have derided the exclusion of civil society groups, developing countries and the general public from the agreement's negotiation process and have described it as policy laundering. The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the resignation in protest of the European Parliament's appointed rapporteur (Kader Arif), as well as widespread protests across Europe.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation opposes ACTA, calling for more public spotlight on the proposed treaty. Since May 2008 discussion papers and other documents relating to the negotiation of ACTA have been uploaded to WikiLeaks, and newspaper reports about the secret negotiations swiftly followed.\n\nIn June 2008, Canadian academic Michael Geist, writing for \"Copyright News\", argued that \"Government Should Lift Veil on ACTA Secrecy\", noting that before documents leaked on the Internet, ACTA was shrouded in secrecy. Coverage of the documents by the \"Toronto Star\" \"sparked widespread opposition as Canadians worry about the prospect of a trade deal that could lead to invasive searches of personal computers and increased surveillance of online activities\". Geist argued that public disclosure of the draft ACTA treaty \"might put an end to fears about iPod-searching border guards\" and that it \"could focus attention on other key concerns including greater Internet service provider filtering of content, heightened liability for websites that link to allegedly infringing content, and diminished privacy for Internet users\". Geist also argued that greater transparency would lead to a more inclusive process, highlighting that the ACTA negotiations have excluded both civil society groups as well as developing countries. Geist reported that \"reports suggest that trade negotiators have been required to sign non-disclosure agreements for fear of word of the treaty's provisions leaking to the public\". He argued that there is a need for \"cooperation from all stakeholders to battle counterfeiting concerns\" and that \"an effective strategy requires broader participation and regular mechanisms for feedback\".\n\nIn November 2008, the European Commission responded to these allegations as follows:\n\nAs another indicator of the way that the ACTA process was handled by the EU, the Council of Ministers officially adopted ACTA at a meeting of the Fisheries Council.\n\nTo coincide with the negotiation round InternetNZ, a nonprofit organisation, held a \"PublicACTA\" event on 10 April 2010 to discuss the known and likely content of the ACTA draft agreement and to develop a statement on ACTA. At the event, the \"Wellington Declaration\" was developed by over 100 participants, and was published the following day along with a petition for its endorsement. By 13 April, it had received 6,645 signatures. The Wellington Declaration and the petition was given to the government of New Zealand, which delivered the Declaration to the other negotiating countries.\n\nAn open letter signed by many organizations, including Consumers International, European Digital Rights (EDRi, an umbrella group for 32 European civil rights and privacy NGOs), the Free Software Foundation (FSF), the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), ASIC (French trade association for Web 2.0 companies), and the Free Knowledge Institute, states that \"the current draft of ACTA would profoundly restrict the fundamental rights and freedoms of European citizens, most notably the freedom of expression and communication privacy.\" The FSF argues that ACTA will create a culture of surveillance and suspicion. Aaron Shaw, Research Fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University, argues that \"ACTA would create unduly harsh legal standards that do not reflect contemporary principles of democratic government, free market exchange, or civil liberties. Even though the precise terms of ACTA remain undecided, the negotiants' preliminary documents reveal many troubling aspects of the proposed agreement\" such as removing \"legal safeguards that protect Internet Service Providers from liability for the actions of their subscribers\", in effect giving ISPs no option but to comply with privacy invasions. Shaw further says that \"[ACTA] would also facilitate privacy violations by trademark and copyright holders against private citizens suspected of infringement activities without any sort of legal due process\".\n\nThe FSF has published \"Speak out against ACTA\", stating that the ACTA threatens free software by creating a culture \"in which the freedom that is required to produce free software is seen as dangerous and threatening rather than creative, innovative, and exciting.\" ACTA would also require that existing ISPs no longer host free software that can access copyrighted media; this would substantially affect many sites that offer free software or host software projects such as SourceForge. Specifically, the FSF argues that ACTA will make it more difficult and expensive to distribute free software via file sharing and peer-to-peer (P2P) technologies like BitTorrent, which are currently used to distribute large amounts of free software. The FSF also argues that ACTA will make it harder for users of free operating systems to play non-free media because digital rights management (DRM) protected media would not be legally playable with free software.\n\nOn 10 March 2010, the European Parliament adopted a resolution criticizing the ACTA with 663 in favor of the resolution and 13 against, arguing that \"in order to respect fundamental rights, such as the right to freedom of expression and the right to privacy\", certain changes in the ACTA content and the process should be made.\n\nAccording to French EP member Kader Arif, \"The problem with ACTA is that, by focusing on the fight against violation of intellectual property rights in general, it treats a generic drug just as a counterfeited drug. This means the patent holder can stop the shipping of the drugs to a developing country, seize the cargo and even order the destruction of the drugs as a preventive measure.\" He continued, \"Generic medicines are not counterfeited medicines; they are not the fake version of a drug; they are a generic version of a drug, produced either because the patent on the original drug has expired, or because a country has to put in place public health policies,\" he said.\n\nA number of countries such as India and African nations have histories of seeking generic cheaper versions of expensive drugs for infections such as HIV, something that has often been resisted by pharmaceutical companies. \"There are international agreements, such as the TRIPS Agreement, which foresees this last possibility,\" he said. \"They're particularly important for developing countries that cannot afford to pay for patented HIV drugs, for example.\" Arif has stated ACTA would limit the freedom of countries such as India to determine their own medical choices.\n\nAlso the non-governmental organization Médecins Sans Frontières has taken a stance against ACTA as a part of their Access Campaign, a campaign promoting the development and access to \"life-saving and life prolonging medicines\". In their report \"A blank cheque for abuse: ACTA & its Impact on Access to Medicines\", Médecins Sans Frontières concludes that ACTA has \"fatal consequences on access to medicines\", furthermore that the agreement \"does nothing to address the problem of poor quality and unsafe medicines\" and finally that ACTA \"undermines existing international declarations to protect public health\", circumventing the Doha Declaration. Michael Gylling Nielsen, the executive of the Danish division of Médecins Sans Frontières, has in a statement to the media said that \"In the end, this is a question of life and death\", elaborating his point by mentioning the \"possible consequenses\" of the treaty that \"the hundreds of thousands of people who for example have HIV/AIDS will not get the treatment they need\".\n\nNate Anderson with Ars Technica pointed out that ACTA encourages service providers to collect and provide information about suspected infringers by giving them \"safe harbor from certain legal threats\". Similarly, it provides for criminalization of copyright infringement on a commercial scale, granting law enforcement the powers to perform criminal investigation, arrests and pursue criminal citations or prosecution of suspects who may have infringed on copyright on a commercial scale. It also allows criminal investigations and invasive searches to be performed against individuals for whom there is no probable cause, and in that regard weakens the presumption of innocence and allows what would in the past have been considered unlawful searches.\n\nSince ACTA is an international treaty, it is an example of policy laundering used to establish and implement legal changes. Policy laundering allows legal provisions to be pushed through via closed negotiations among private members of the executive bodies of the signatories. This method avoids use of public legislation and its judiciary oversight. Once ratified, companies belonging to non-members may be forced to follow the ACTA requirements since they will otherwise fall out of the safe harbor protections. Also, the use of trade incentives and the like to persuade other nations to adopt treaties is a standard approach in international relationships. Additional signatories would have to accept ACTA's terms without much scope for negotiation.\n\nFrom 16–18 June 2010, a conference was held at the Washington College of Law, attended by \"over 90 academics, practitioners and public interest organizations from six continents\". Their conclusions were published on 23 June 2010 on the American University Washington College of Law website. They found \"that the terms of the publicly released draft of ACTA threaten numerous public interests, including every concern specifically disclaimed by negotiators.\" A group of over 75 law professors signed a letter to President Obama demanding a host of changes to the agreement. The letter alleges that no meaningful transparency has been in evidence.\n\nConnor Adams Sheets of the \"International Business Times\" outlined five categories where digital rights advocates compared but expressed greater concern about ACTA than SOPA. Among these were the treaty's broader international nature, its fundamental lack of transparency, the relative ease of enactment, the degree of support by signatories, and a lack of visibility on the global political stage. \"Forbes\" writer E.D. Kain compared the characteristics of ACTA with that of SOPA and PIPA, noting that they were each \"defined by [their] opacity: secret negotiations, closed door talks, no public discussion.\"\n\nIn September 2008, a number of interest groups urged parties to the ACTA negotiations to disclose the language of the evolving agreement. In an open letter, the groups argued that: \"Because the text of the treaty and relevant discussion documents remain secret, the public has no way of assessing whether and to what extent these and related concerns are merited.\" The interest groups included: the Consumers Union, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Essential Action, IP Justice, Knowledge Ecology International, Public Knowledge, Global Trade Watch, the US Public Interest Research Group, IP Left (Korea), the Canadian Library Association, the Consumers Union of Japan, Consumer Focus (UK) and Médecins Sans Frontières' Campaign for Essential Medicines. The Electronic Frontier Foundation and Public Knowledge filed a Freedom of Information Act request, which was denied.\n\nA coalition of concerned organisations submitted to the responsible Australian Government department, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.\n\nThe submission agreed that reducing counterfeiting is important where it endangers consumer health or safety, or constitutes commercial scale infringement. However, the coalition urged that pursuit of that goal should not threaten legitimate commercial, social, innovative and creative activities, the rights of consumers or the free flow of information. The coalition noted the current proposed treaty raised serious concerns with respect to transparency, increased customs search powers, increased penalties for IP infringement, and lack of due process.\n\nThe coalition consisted of:\n\nThe University of Ottawa's Canadian Internet Policy and Public Interest Clinic filed an \"Access to Information Act\" request to see the government's position but received only a document stating the title of the agreement, with everything else blacked out.\n\nIn November 2008, the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure requested secret Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) documents from the EU Council, specifically naming twelve documents to be published. The request was denied by the EU council, stating that \"disclosure of this information could impede the proper conduct of the negotiations, would weaken the position of the European Union in these negotiations and might affect relations with the third parties concerned\". In March 2010, the European Parliament passed a resolution demanding greater transparency in public affairs, which among other things called on the European Commission to make public all documents relating to the negotiations.\n\nIn August 2005, a coalition of NGOs and individuals formed to request more transparency in ACTA negotiations. At briefings held by the Ministry of Economic Development (MED) and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT) on 16 December 2009, representatives from the coalition organisations supported the New Zealand negotiators stated desire to call for more transparency. In December 2009 two New Zealand members of Parliament, Clare Curran (Labour) and Peter Dunne (United Future) also publicly questioned the need for secrecy.\n\nIn March 2010, Tech Liberty, a New Zealand digital civil rights organisation, received a response to its Official Information Act request on ACTA. It was given letters from the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade plus the May 2008 cabinet paper in which the New Zealand government agreed to participate in ACTA. Portions of the cabinet paper, and answers to questions posed by TechLiberty, were withheld including the venue for the April 2010 ACTA negotiations, the cabinet discussion paper on participation in ACTA, and all copies of draft negotiation texts, and all documents expressing New Zealand's negotiating position. This information was withheld under Official Information Act provisions allowing for withholding of information where it would prejudice the international relations of the Government of New Zealand, where it would affect the privacy of natural persons, where it was required to maintain the effective conduct of public affairs, and where withholding information was required to enable the government to carry on negotiations (including commercial and industrial negotiations).\n\nIn April 2010 a coalition of NZ organisations ran the PublicACTA event immediately prior to the negotiation round held in Wellington New Zealand. At the PublicACTA event participants drafted the Wellington Declaration. The Wellington Declaration was delivered to the New Zealand negotiators, who provided it to representatives from all the other negotiating countries. Following the Wellington negotiation round in April 2010 the text of ACTA was released publicly. This was the only time this occurred during the ACTA negotiations.\n\nBoth the Bush administration and the Obama administration had rejected requests to make the text of ACTA public, with the White House saying that disclosure would cause \"damage to the national security.\" In 2009, Knowledge Ecology International filed a Freedom of Information Act request in the United States, but their entire request was denied. The Office of the United States Trade Representative's Freedom of Information office stated the request was withheld for being material \"properly classified in the interest of national security.\" US Senators Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) penned a letter on 23 November 2009, asking the United States Trade Representative to make the text of the ACTA public.\n\nFollowing the drafting of the Wellington Declaration on 10 April 2010, a petition was signed by over 7,000 people worldwide in the first three days.\n\nAfter Poland's announcement on 19 January 2012 that it would sign the treaty on 26 January, a number of Polish government websites were shut down by denial of service attacks that started on 21 January. Websites included those of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the President, and the Sejm. On 23 January the website of the Prime Minister of Poland was hacked. The content of the page was replaced by a video where the internet users were called to oppose the threats to privacy that were attributed to ACTA. Over a thousand people protested in front of the European Parliament office in Warsaw on 24 January. On 25 January, at least 15,000 demonstrated in Kraków, 5,000 in Wrocław, with considerable protests in cities across the country. Polish social sites Demotywatory.pl, JoeMonster.org, Kwejk.pl, AntyWeb.pl and Wykop.pl announced that they were considering a blackout similar to the SOPA-inspired 2012 Wikipedia blackout to protest Poland's plan to sign the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement. \nA poll conducted on 27 January by Millward Brown SMG/KRC indicated that 64% of Poles opposed the agreement's signing, 60% believed the treaty would fail to achieve its primary objective, and 50% thought that it would curtail essential freedoms. On 27 January, protesters across the country numbered in the tens of thousands. Following the demonstrations, Interia.pl and RMF FM facilitated 1.8 million emails to members of parliament related to ACTA, with 97% of those participating being opposed to the treaty.\n\nKader Arif, European parliament's rapporteur for ACTA, resigned from his position on 26 January 2012 denouncing the treaty \"in the strongest possible manner\" for having \"no inclusion of civil society organizations, a lack of transparency from the start of the negotiations, repeated postponing of the signature of the text without an explanation being ever given, [and] exclusion of the EU Parliament's demands that were expressed on several occasions in [the] assembly,\" concluding with his intent to \"send a strong signal and alert the public opinion about this unacceptable situation\" and refusal to \"take part in this masquerade.\"\n\nOn 23 January the Inspector General for the Protection of Personal Data of Poland recommended not signing ACTA, considering it to be a threat to the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of Poland.\n\nOn 26 January 2012 a group of Polish politicians expressed disapproval of the treaty by holding up Guy Fawkes masks during parliamentary proceedings. Images of this event quickly spread on the Internet. Mike Masnick of Techdirt resultantly noted that the handmade masks were themselves symbolically \"counterfeit,\" as Time Warner owns intellectual property rights to the masks and typically expects royalties for their depiction. Polish opposition right-wing party Law and Justice subsequently called for a referendum on ACTA.\n\nLater, the Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk stated that ratification was \"suspended.\" More recently, on 17 February 2012, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said Poland was \"abandoning plans for ratification\" and now views his earlier support for ACTA \"as a mistake.\" Prime Minister Tusk has also sent a letter to his fellow leaders in the EU urging them \"to reject ACTA.\"\n\nHelena Drnovšek-Zorko, Slovenian ambassador to Japan, issued a statement on 31 January 2012 expressing deep remorse for having signed the agreement. \"I signed ACTA out of civic carelessness, because I did not pay enough attention. Quite simply, I did not clearly connect the agreement I had been instructed to sign with the agreement that, according to my own civic conviction, limits and withholds the freedom of engagement on the largest and most significant network in human history, and thus limits particularly the future of our children,\" she said.\n\nSlovenian members of hacktivist group Anonymous announced opposition against the treaty's signing and posted video threats on various websites against government officials and Nova Ljubljanska Banka, accusing the latter of corruption.\n\nAccording to police estimates, 3000 Slovenians subsequently protested at Congress Square in Ljubljana and around 300 in Maribor on 4 February 2012. The Nova Ljubljanska Banka was also taken offline for about one hour by a cyber attack.\n\nAlmost 12,000 people signed up for the Facebook event to demonstrate against ACTA. Several thousand Swedes protested in cities across Sweden on 4 February 2012. A smaller protest with a few hundred participants was also arranged in central Stockholm, Helsingborg and Jönköping on 11 February 2012 to coincide with the global protests that day. Another protest subsequently took place in Gothenburg on 25 February 2012 with over 1,000 participants showing up for the demonstration at Gotaplatsen. Amongst other speakers was the Canadian-born Laura Creighton, vice-president of the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (2008–present), residing in Gothenburg since around 2002.\n\nThe Swedish Pirate Party and its Member of the European Parliaments (MEPs) Christian Engström and Amelia Andersdotter and as its party leader Anna Troberg have also been involved in arranging the Swedish protests., including the later demonstrations on 9 June 2012 in Stockholm and Gothenburg, which were held at the same time as demonstrations in other parts of the world. The Green Party of Sweden and their MEP Carl Schlyter have also worked against ACTA, as well as the Left Party and their MEP Mikael Gustafsson.\n\nOn 11 February 2012, protests were held against ACTA in more than 200 European cities. On 21 February 2012, a news report noted that \"many countries in Europe that have signed the treaty have set aside ratification in response to public outcry, effectively hampering the ratification and implementation of the treaty.\" Protests in Germany attracted over 10,000 participants, while up to 8,000 Bulgarians protested in Sofia.\n\nOn 18 February 2012, a petition at \"jestemprzeciwacta.pl\" seeking a referendum in Poland had reached more than 415,300 signatures. A similar worldwide petition at Avaaz collected over 2.5 million signatures since 25 January. A petition directed at United Kingdom citizens, hosted by the UK Government's Directgov website, has reached over 14,500 signatures as of 18 February. A petition directed at Estonian citizens has reached over 7,200 signatures as of 18 February.\n\nIn the United States, several ACTA-related White House petitions have been created. One petition, \"End ACTA and Protect our right to privacy on the Internet,\" was created 21 January 2012 and reached the threshold of 25,000 signatures within a month's time. This petition ended 9 June with 47,517 total signatures logged. Afterwards, in June 2012, Ambassador Miriam Sapiro (Deputy US Trade Representative), on behalf of the White House Staff, presented the official White House position in response to the petition. Another petition, \"Please Submit ACTA to the Senate for Ratification as Required by the Constitution for Trade Agreements,\" was created 22 January 2012 but did not reach the threshold of 25,000 signatures within a month's time. With about 12,850 signatures logged at month's end, this petition was \"expired\" as of 21 February.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "571440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=571440", "title": "Anti-clericalism", "text": "Anti-clericalism\n\nAnti-clericalism is opposition to religious authority, typically in social or political matters. Historical anti-clericalism has mainly been opposed to the influence of Roman Catholicism. Anti-clericalism is related to secularism, which seeks to remove the church from all aspects of public and political life, and its involvement in the everyday life of the citizen.\n\nSome have opposed clergy on the basis of moral corruption, institutional issues and/or disagreements in religious interpretation, such as during the Protestant Reformation. Anti-clericalism became extremely violent during the French Revolution because revolutionaries believed the church had played a pivotal role in the systems of oppression which led to it. Many clerics were killed, and French revolutionary governments tried to control priests by making them state employees.\n\nAnti-clericalism appeared in Catholic Europe throughout the 19th century, in various forms, and later in Canada, Cuba, and Latin America.\n\nThe Civil Constitution of the Clergy was passed on July 12, 1790, requiring all clerics to swear allegiance to the French government and, by extension, to the increasingly anti-clerical National Constituent Assembly. All but seven of the 160 bishops refused the oath, as did about half of the parish priests. Persecution of the clergy and of the faithful was the first trigger of the rebellion; the second being conscription. Nonjuring priests were exiled or imprisoned and women on their way to Mass were beaten in the streets.\n\nThe anti-clericalism during the French Revolution initially began with attacks on church corruption and the wealth of the higher clergy, an action with which even many Christians could identify, since the Roman Catholic church held a dominant role in pre-revolutionary France. During a two-year period known as the Reign of Terror, the episodes of anti-clericalism grew more violent than any in modern European history. The new revolutionary authorities suppressed the church; abolished the Catholic monarchy; nationalized church property; exiled 30,000 priests and killed hundreds more. Many churches were converted into \"temples of reason,\" in which services were held. There has been much scholarly debate over whether the movement was popularly motivated. As part of the campaign to dechristianize France, in October 1793 the Christian calendar was replaced with one reckoning from the date of the Revolution, and Festivals of Liberty, Reason and the Supreme Being were scheduled. New forms of moral religion emerged, including the deistic Cult of the Supreme Being and France's first established state sponsored atheistic Cult of Reason, with all churches not devoted to these being closed. In April and May 1794, the government mandated the observance of a festival of the Cult of the Supreme Being. When anticlericalism became a clear goal of French revolutionaries, counter-revolutionaries seeking to restore tradition and the Ancien Régime took up arms, particularly in the War in the Vendée (1793 to 1796). Local people often resisted dechristianisation and forced members of the clergy who had resigned to conduct Mass again. Eventually, Maximilien Robespierre and the Committee of Public Safety denounced the dechristianization campaign and tried to establish their own religion, without the superstitions of Catholicism.\n\nWhen Pope Pius VI took sides against the revolution in the First Coalition (1792–1797), Napoleon Bonaparte invaded Italy (1796). French troops imprisoned the Pope in 1797, and he died after six weeks of captivity.\nAfter a change of heart, Napoleon then re-established the Catholic Church in France with the signing of the Concordat of 1801, and banned the Cult of the Supreme Being.\nMany anti-clerical policies continued. When Napoleonic armies entered a territory, monasteries were often sacked and church property secularized.\n\nA further phase of anti-clericalism occurred in the context of the French Third Republic and its dissensions with the Catholic Church. Prior to the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State, the Catholic Church enjoyed preferential treatment from the French state (formally along with the Jewish, Lutheran and Calvinist minority religions, but in practice with much more influence than those). During the 19th century, public schools employed primarily priests as teachers, and religion was taught in schools (teachers were also obliged to lead the class to Mass). In 1881–1882 Jules Ferry's government passed the Jules Ferry laws, establishing free education (1881) and mandatory and lay education (1882), giving the basis of French public education. The Third Republic (1871–1940) firmly established itself after the 16 May 1877 crisis triggered by the Catholic Legitimists who wished for a return to the \"Ancien Régime\".\nIn 1880 and 1882 Benedictine teaching monks were effectively exiled. This was not completed until 1901.\n\nA law of 7 July 1904 preventing religious congregations from teaching any longer, and the 1905 law on separation of state and church, were enacted under the government of Radical-Socialist Émile Combes. Alsace-Lorraine was not subjected to these laws as it was part of the German Empire then.\n\nIn the \"Affaire des Fiches\" (1904-1905), it was discovered that the anticlerical War Minister of the Combes government, General Louis André, was determining promotions based on the French Masonic Grand Orient's card index on public officials, detailing which were Catholic and who attended Mass, with a view to preventing their promotions.\n\nIn the years following their relocations, boarding schools of congreganists were accused by some senators of trying to \"recruit\" French youth from abroad, placing the French Republic \"in jeopardy\":\nRepublicans' anti-clericalism softened after the First World War as the Catholic right-wing began to accept the Republic and secularism. However, the theme of subsidized private schools in France, which are overwhelmingly Catholic but whose teachers draw pay from the state, remains a sensitive issue in French politics.\n\nEmperor Joseph II (emperor 1765-1790) opposed what he called \"contemplative\" religious institutions — reclusive Catholic institutions that he perceived as doing nothing positive for the community. His policy towards them are included in what is called Josephinism.\n\nJoseph decreed that Austrian bishops could not communicate directly with the Curia. More than 500 of 1,188 monasteries in Austro-Slav lands (and a hundred more in Hungary) were dissolved, and 60 million florins taken by the state. This wealth was used to create 1,700 new parishes and welfare institutions.\n\nThe education of priests was taken from the Church as well. Joseph established six state-run \"General Seminaries.\" In 1783, a Marriage Patent treated marriage as a civil contract rather than a religious institution.\n\nCatholic Historians have claimed that there was an alliance between Joseph and anti-clerical Freemasons.\n\nThe Kulturkampf, (literally \"culture struggle\") refers to German policies in reducing the role and power of the Catholic Church in Prussia, enacted from 1871 to 1878 by the Prime Minister of Prussia, Otto von Bismarck.\n\nBismarck accelerated the \"Kulturkampf\", which did not extend to the other German states such as Bavaria (where Catholics were in a majority). As one scholar put it, \"the attack on the church included a series of Prussian, discriminatory laws that made Catholics feel understandably persecuted within a predominantly Protestant nation.\" Jesuits, Franciscans, Dominicans and other orders were expelled in the culmination of twenty years of anti-Jesuit and antimonastic hysteria.\n\nIn 1871, the Catholic Church comprised 36.5% of the population of the German Empire, including millions of Germans in the west and South, as well as the vast majority of Poles. In this newly founded Empire, Bismarck sought to appeal to liberals and Protestants (62% of the population) by reducing the political and social influence of the Catholic Church.\n\nPriests and bishops who resisted the \"Kulturkampf\" were arrested or removed from their positions. By the height of anti-Catholic measures, half of the Prussian bishops were in prison or in exile, a quarter of the parishes had no priest, half the monks and nuns had left Prussia, a third of the monasteries and convents were closed, 1800 parish priests were imprisoned or exiled, and thousands of laypeople were imprisoned for helping the priests.\n\nThe Kulturkampf backfired, as it energized the Catholics to become a political force in the Centre party and revitalized Polish resistance. The \"Kulturkampf\" ended about 1880 with a new pope Leo XIII willing to negotiate with Bismarck. Bismarck broke with the Liberals over religion and over their opposition to tariffs; He won Centre party support on most of his conservative policy positions, especially his attacks against Socialism.\n\nAnti-clericalism in Italy is connected with reaction against the absolutism of the Papal States, overthrown in 1870. For a long time, the Pope required Catholics not to participate in the public life of the Kingdom of Italy that had invaded the Papal States to complete the unification of Italy, prompting the pope to declare himself a \"prisoner\" in the Vatican. Some politicians that had played important roles in this process, such as Camillo Benso, conte di Cavour, were known to be hostile to the temporal and political power of the Church. Throughout the history of Liberal Italy, relations between the Italian government and the Church remained acrimonious, and anticlericals maintained a prominent position in the ideological and political debates of the era. Tensions eased between church and state in the 1890s and early 1900s as a result of both sides' mutual hostility toward the burgeoning Socialist movement, but official hostility between the Holy See and the Italian state was finally settled by fascist dictator Benito Mussolini and Pope Pius XI: the Lateran Accords were finalised in 1929.\n\nAfter World War II, anti-clericalism was embodied by the Italian Communist and Italian Socialist parties, in opposition to the Vatican-endorsed party Christian Democracy.\n\nThe revision of the Lateran treaties during the 1980s by the Socialist Prime Minister of Italy Bettino Craxi, removed the status of \"official religion\" of the Catholic Church, but still granted a series of provisions in favour of the Church, such as the eight per thousand law, the teaching of religion in schools, and other privileges.\n\nRecently, the Catholic Church has been taking a more aggressive stance in Italian politics, in particular through Cardinal Camillo Ruini, who often makes his voice heard commenting the political debate and indicating the official line of the Church on various matters. This interventionism has increased with the papacy of Benedict XVI. Anti-clericalism, however, is not the official stance of most parties (with the exception of the Italian Radicals, who, however identify as laicist), as most party leaders consider it an electoral disadvantage to openly contradict the Church: since the demise of the Christian Democracy as a single party, Catholic votes are often swinging between the right and the left wing, and are considered to be decisive to win an election.\n\nYour Movement is an anti-clerical party founded in 2011 by politician Janusz Palikot. Palikot's Movement won 10% of the national vote at the Polish parliamentary election, 2011.\n\nThe fall of the Monarchy in the Republican revolution of 1910 led to another wave of anti-clerical activity. Most church property was put under State control, and the church was not allowed to inherit property. The revolution and the republic which took a \"hostile\" approach to the issue of church and state separation, like that of the French Revolution, the Spanish Constitution of 1931 and the Mexican Constitution of 1917. As part of the anticlerical revolution, the bishops were driven from their dioceses, the property of clerics was seized by the state, wearing of the cassock was banned, all minor seminaries were closed and all but five major seminaries. A law of February 22, 1918 permitted only two seminaries in the country, but they had not been given their property back. Religious orders were expelled from the country, including 31 orders comprising members in 164 houses (in 1917 some orders were permitted to form again). Religious education was prohibited in both primary and secondary school. Religious oaths and church taxes were also abolished.\n\nThe first instance of anti-clerical violence due to political conflict in 19th century Spain occurred during the Trienio Liberal (Spanish Civil War of 1820–1823). During riots in Catalonia, 20 clergymen were killed by members of the liberal movement in retaliation for the Church's siding with absolutist supporters of Ferdinand VII.\n\nIn 1836 following the First Carlist War, the Ecclesiastical Confiscations of Mendizábal () promulgated by Juan Álvarez Mendizábal, prime minister of the new regime abolished the major Spanish Convents and Monasteries.\n\nMany years later the Radical Republican Party leader Alejandro Lerroux would distinguish himself by his inflammatory pieces of opinion.\n\nThe Republican government which came to power in Spain in 1931 was based on secular principles. In the first years some laws were passed secularising education, prohibiting religious education in the schools, and expelling the Jesuits from the country. On Pentecost 1932, Pope Pius XI protested against these measures and demanded restitution. He asked the Catholics of Spain to fight with all legal means against the injustices. June 3, 1933 he issued the encyclical Dilectissima Nobis, in which he described the expropriation of all Church buildings, episcopal residences, parish houses, seminaries and monasteries.\n\nBy law, they were now property of the Spanish State, to which the Church had to pay rent and taxes in order to continuously use these properties. \"Thus the Catholic Church is compelled to pay taxes on what was violently taken from her\" Religious vestments, liturgical instruments, statues, pictures, vases, gems and other valuable objects were expropriated as well.\n\nDuring the Civil War in Spain started in 1936, Catholics largely supported Franco and the Nationalist forces in the Spanish Civil War of 1936–1939. Anti-clerical assaults during what has been termed by the Nationalists Red Terror included sacking and burning monasteries and churches and killing 6,832 members of the clergy. \n\nPrior to the falangists joining Francisco Franco's unified alliance of right-wing parties, the party exhibited anti-clerical tendencies. the party was less ferverent in its support for the catholic church which it saw as an elite being an obstacle for the movement to be able to fully control the state. Despite this, no massacres of catholics have been caused by falangists, whom supported the church as a result of their alliance to monarchists and other nationalist movements.\n\nThis number comprises:\n\nThere are accounts of Catholic faithful being forced to swallow rosary beads, thrown down mine shafts and priests being forced to dig their own graves before being buried alive. The Catholic Church has canonized several martyrs of the Spanish Civil War and beatified hundreds more.\n\nIn French Canada following the Conquest, much like in Ireland or Poland under foreign rule, the Catholic Church was the sole national institution not under the direct control of the British colonial government. It was also a major marker of social difference from the incoming Anglo-Protestant settlers. French Canadian identity was almost entirely centred around Catholicism, and to a much lesser extent the French language. However, there was a small anti-clerical movement in French Canada in the early nineteenth drawing inspiration from American and French liberal revolutions. This group was one current (but by no means the dominant) one in the Parti canadien its associated Lower Canada Rebellion of 1837. In the more democratic politics that followed the rebellions, the more radical and anti-clerical tendency eventually formed the Parti rouge in 1848.\n\nAt the same time in English Canada, a related phenomenon occurred where the primarily Nonconformist (mostly Presbyterian and Methodist) Reform movement conflicted with an Anglican establishment. In Upper Canada, The Reform Movement began as protest against the \"establishment\" of the Anglican church.\n\nThe vastly different religious backgrounds of the Reformers and rouges was one of the factors which prevented them from working together well during the era of two-party coalition government in Canada (1840–1867). By 1861, however, the two groups fused to create a united Liberal block. After 1867, this party added like-minded reformers from the Maritime provinces, but struggled to win power, especially in still strongly-Catholic Quebec.\n\nOnce Wilfrid Laurier became party leader, however, the party dropped its anti-clerical stance and went on to dominate Canadian politics throughout most of the twentieth century. Since that time, Liberal prime ministers have been overwhelmingly Catholic (St. Laurent, Trudeau, Chrétien, Martin), but since the 1960s Liberals have again had a strained relationship with the Catholic church, and have increasing parted with the Catholic church's teachings on sexual morality, as when Trudeau legalized homosexuality and streamlined divorce (as justice minister under Pearson), and Martin legalized same-sex marriage.\n\nIn Quebec itself, the Quiet Revolution of the 1960s broke the hold of the church on provincial politics. The Quebec Liberal Party embraced formerly taboo social democratic ideas, and the state intervened in fields once dominated by the church, especially health and education, which were taken over by the provincial government. Quebec is now considered Canada's most secular province.\n\nAlthough anti-clericalism is more often spoken of regarding the history or current politics of Latin countries where the Catholic Church was established and where the clergy had privileges, Philip Jenkins notes in his 2003 book \"The New Anti-Catholicism\" that the U.S., despite the lack of Catholic establishments, has always had anti-clericals.\n\nOf the population of Latin America, about 71% acknowledge allegiance to the Roman Catholic Church. Consequently, about 43% of the world's Catholics inhabit the ‘Latin’ countries of South, Central and North America.\n\nThe slowness to embrace religious freedom in Latin America is related to its colonial heritage and to its post-colonial history. The Aztec, Maya and Inca cultures made substantial use of religious leaders to ideologically support governing authority and power. This pre-existing role of religion as ideological adjunct to the state in pre-Columbian culture made it relatively easy for the Spanish conquistadors to replace native religious structures with those of a Catholicism that was closely linked to the Spanish throne.\n\nAnti-clericalism was a common feature of 19th-century liberalism in Latin America. This anti-clericalism was often purportedly based on the idea that the clergy (especially the prelates who ran the administrative offices of the Church) were hindering social progress in areas such as public education and economic development.\n\nBeginning in the 1820s, a succession of liberal regimes came to power in Latin America. Some members of these liberal regimes sought to imitate the Spain of the 1830s (and revolutionary France of a half-century earlier) in expropriating the wealth of the Catholic Church, and in imitating the eighteenth-century benevolent despots in restricting or prohibiting the religious orders. As a result, a number of these liberal regimes expropriated Church property and tried to bring education, marriage and burial under secular authority. The confiscation of Church properties and changes in the scope of religious liberties (in general, increasing the rights of non-Catholics and non-observant Catholics, while licensing or prohibiting the orders) generally accompanied secularist and governmental reforms.\n\nThe Mexican Constitution of 1824 had required the Republic to prohibit the exercise of any religion other than the Roman Catholic and Apostolic faith.\n\nStarting in 1855, President Benito Juárez issued decrees nationalizing church property, separating church and state, and suppressing religious orders. Church properties were confiscated and basic civil and political rights were denied to religious orders and the clergy.\n\nMore severe laws called Calles Law during the rule of Plutarco Elías Calles eventually led to the Cristero War, an armed peasant rebellion against the Mexican government supported by the Catholic Church.\n\nFollowing the Mexican Revolution of 1910, the new Mexican Constitution of 1917 contained further anti-clerical provisions. Article 3 called for secular education in the schools and prohibited the Church from engaging in primary education; Article 5 outlawed monastic orders; Article 24 forbade public worship outside the confines of churches; and Article 27 placed restrictions on the right of religious organizations to hold property. Article 130 deprived clergy members of basic political rights. Many of these laws were resisted, leading to the Cristero Rebellion of 1927–1929. The suppression of the Church included the closing of many churches and the killing of priests. The persecution was most severe in Tabasco under the atheist\" governor Tomás Garrido Canabal.\n\nThe church-supported armed rebellion only escalated the violence. US Diplomat Dwight Morrow was brought in to mediate the conflict. But 1928 saw the assassination of President Alvaro Obregón by Catholic radical José de León Toral, gravely damaging the peace process.\n\nThe war had a profound effect on the Church. Between 1926 and 1934 at least 40 priests were killed. Between 1926 and 1934, over 3,000 priests were exiled or assassinated.\n\nWhere 4,500 priests served the people before the rebellion, in 1934 there were only 334 priests licensed by the government to serve fifteen million people, the rest having been eliminated by emigration, expulsion and assassination. It appears that ten states were left without any priests.\n\nThe Cristero rebels committed their share of violence, which continued even after formal hostilities had ended. In some of the worst cases, public school teachers were tortured and murdered by the former Cristero rebels. It is calculated that almost 300 rural teachers were murdered in this way between 1935 and 1939.\n\nThis issue was one of the bases for the lasting dispute between Conservatives, who represented primarily the interests of the Sierra and the church, and the Liberals, who represented those of the Costa and anticlericalism. Tensions came to a head in 1875 when the conservative President Gabriel García Moreno, after being elected to his third term, was allegedly assassinated by anticlerical Freemasons.\n\nColombia enacted anticlerical legislation and its enforcement during more than three decades (1849–84).\n\nLa Violencia refers to an era of civil conflict in various areas of the Colombian countryside between supporters of the Colombian Liberal Party and the Colombian Conservative Party, a conflict which took place roughly from 1948 to 1958.\n\nAcross the country, militants attacked churches, convents, and monasteries, killing priests and looking for arms, since the conspiracy theory maintained that the religious had guns, and this despite the fact that not a single serviceable weapon was located in the raids.\n\nWhen their party came to power in 1930, anticlerical Liberals pushed for legislation to end Church influence in public schools. These Liberals held that the Church and its intellectual backwardness were responsible for a lack of spiritual and material progress in Colombia. Liberal-controlled local, departmental and national governments ended contracts with religious communities who operated schools in government-owned buildings, and set up secular schools in their place. These actions were sometimes violent, and were met by a strong opposition from clerics, Conservatives, and even a good number of more moderate Liberals.\n\nThe original Argentine Constitution of 1853 provided that all Argentine presidents must be Catholic and stated that the duty of the Argentine congress was to convert the Indians to Catholicism. All of these provisions have been eliminated with the exception of the mandate to \"sustain\" Catholicism.\n\nLiberal anti-clericalists of the 1880s established a new pattern of church-state relations in which the official constitutional status of the Church was preserved while the state assumed control of many functions formerly the province of the Church. Conservative Catholics, asserting their role as definers of national values and morality, responded in part by joining in the rightist religio-political movement known as Catholic Nationalism which formed successive opposition parties. This began a prolonged period of conflict between church and state that persisted until the 1940s when the Church enjoyed a restoration of its former status under the presidency of Colonel Juan Perón. Perón claimed that Peronism was the \"true embodiment of Catholic social teaching\" – indeed, more the embodiment of Catholicism than the Catholic Church itself.\n\nIn 1954, Argentina saw extensive destruction of churches, denunciations of clergy and confiscation of Catholic schools as Perón attempted to extend state control over national institutions.\n\nThe renewed rupture in church-state relations was completed when Perón was excommunicated. However, in 1955, he was overthrown by a military general who was a leading member of the Catholic Nationalist movement.\n\nIn Venezuela, the government of Antonio Guzmán Blanco (in office from 1870–1877, from 1879–1884, and from 1886–1887) virtually crushed the institutional life of the church, even attempting to legalize the marriage of priests. These anticlerical policies remained in force for decades afterward.\n\nCuba, under the rule of atheist Fidel Castro, succeeded in reducing the Church's ability to work by deporting the archbishop and 150 Spanish priests, by discriminating against Catholics in public life and education and by refusing to accept them as members of the Communist Party. The subsequent flight of 300,000 people from the island also helped to diminish the Church there.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, anti-clericalism was expressed through the state; in the first five years alone after the Bolshevik revolution, 28 bishops and 1,200 priests were executed.\n\nMolla Nasraddin (magazine)\n\nAtatürk\n\nDuring the fall of Suharto in 1998, a witch hunt in Banyuwangi against alleged sorcerers spiraled into widespread riots and violence. In addition to alleged sorcerers, Islamic clerics were also targeted and killed, Nahdlatul Ulama members were murdered by rioters.\n\nIn 1925, Rezā Khan founded the Imperial State of Iran and proclaimed himself shah of the country. As part of his Westernization program, the traditional role of the ruling clergy was minimized; Islamic schools were secularized, women were forbidden to wear the hijab, sharia law was abolished, and men and women were desegregated in educational and religious environments. All this infuriated the ultraconservative clergy as a class. Rezā Khan's son and heir Mohammad Reza Pahlavi continued such practices. They ultimately contributed to the Islamic Revolution of 1978–79, and the Shah's flight from his country.\n\nWhen Ayatollah Khomeini took power a month after the revolution, the Shah's anticlerical measures were largely overturned, replaced by an Islamic Republic based on the principle of rule by Islamic jurists, , where clerics serve as head of state and in many powerful governmental roles. However, by the late 1990s and 2000s anti-clericalism was reported to be significant in the Islamic Republic of Iran.\n\nDemonstrators using slogans such as \"The clerics live like kings while we live in poverty!\" One report claims \"Working-class Iranian lamented clerical wealth in the face of their own poverty,\" and \"stories about Swiss bank accounts of leading clerics circulated on Tehran's rumor mill.\"\n\nAccording to the 1913 Catholic Encyclopedia, Freemasonry was historically viewed by the Catholic Church as a principal source of anti-Clericalism, – especially in, but not limited to, historically Catholic countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183706", "title": "Assize of Clarendon", "text": "Assize of Clarendon\n\nThe Assize of Clarendon was an 1166 act of Henry II of England that began a transformation of English law and led to trial by jury in common law countries worldwide, and that established assize courts. \n\nPrior systems for deciding the winning party in a case, especially felonies, included trials by ordeal, by battle, or by compurgation to an evidentiary model, in which evidence, inspection, and inquiry was made under oath by laymen, knights or ordinary freemen. After the Assize of Clarendon trial by jury developed, though some historians say beginnings of the jury system predate this act. The Assize of Clarendon did not lead to this change immediately; recourse to trial by combat was not officially rescinded until 1819, though by then it had fallen out of use. \n\nThe assize takes its name from Clarendon Palace, Wiltshire, the royal hunting lodge at which it was promulgated.\n\nIn 1154, Henry II inherited the throne of a troubled England. In full swing were the Crusades, a military endeavour that kept noble landowners away from their castles for years at a time. Unoccupied and unclaimed land invited squatters; since there was no central recording office for real property in England at the time, and sorting out who owned what fief was entrusted to human memory, disputes arose when aristocrats returned, or died thousands of miles from home.\n\nAnother, even more serious was the aftermath of The Anarchy, a disastrous civil war between King Stephen and the Empress Matilda. The two factions had hired mercenary soldiers, and when there was no one left to pay them, many resorted robbery and other forms of violence as a profession. Crime followed the breakdown of local authority. The quarrel between the King and the Empress created more property troubles; as communities were divided, both factions were happy to reward their supporters with the lands of the local opponents. \n\nFinally, there was the long-standing difficulty involving the Catholic Church, which culminated in the murder of Thomas Becket, the Archbishop of Canterbury. The problem for the King was that the Church acted like an \"imperium in imperio\", a \"kingdom within a kingdom\", only partially subject to Henry's laws if at all. The church operated its own court system, which answered not to Henry but to the Pope; it was a large landowner and a powerful vested interest. Henry wished to establish a system of justice that would enlarge the power of the Crown at the expense of the clergy.\n\nHenry therefore promulgated various assizes (i.e. courts that convened in a town periodically, rather than being permanently established). The primary and most general one, the Assize of Clarendon was issued in 1166. Others, the \"petty\" assizes known respectively as the assize of novel disseisin, of mort d'ancestor, and of darrein presentment gave more specific relief. The most popular one became the \"assize of novel disseisin\", which in Law French meant something close to the \"assize of recent dispossession\". Those who had been recently put out of their lands could recover the beneficial use of them by resort to this assize, which led to a then innovative method of trial. Twelve \"of the more lawful men\" of the locality were summoned by the king's sheriff to determine, upon their own knowledge, who was entitled to the property. This innovative method of proceeding, the origin of the civil petit jury at common law, was aimed at the chaos introduced into property rights by crusade and civil war. \n\nHenry's true measure of cleverness, though, is on display in his innovations in criminal justice. Henry appointed \"justices in eyre,\" the counterpart of circuit judges, to travel from town to town. When they arrived, they too called upon the sheriff to summon twelve free men from the surrounding areas. These twelve free men were a prototype of a grand jury. They were called to report under oath any accusations of crime they were aware of in the community. In theory, then as (in the United States and Liberia) now, the grand jury only brought accusations; it did not find guilt or innocence. The crimes to be investigated were specified in the Assize of Clarendon to be robbery, murder or theft or anyone who had harboured a robber, murderer, or thief. To these the Assize of Northampton (1176) added counterfeiting, forgery, and arson. Minor crimes were specifically excepted so the new assizes concerned themselves with what would later be labeled \"felonies\".\n\nThis new assize did away with the old form of trial known as \"compurgation\" in accusations brought by the grand jury. Under compurgation, an accused person who swore he did not commit the crime, and who found a sufficient number of his neighbours to swear that they believed him, was acquitted. Compurgation was no longer available in charges brought by the grand jury. \n\nThe only trial available to the defendant remained the traditional trial by ordeal, specifically in the Assize of Clarendon, \"the ordeal of water.\" Nevertheless, Henry did not put much faith in the results of the ordeal. The unfortunate felon who was convicted through the ordeal was typically executed. However, the Assize of Northampton (1176) provided that the loss of the right hand shall be added to a previous punishment of the loss of one foot for those who failed the ordeal. This implies that execution was not the inevitable result of conviction. But even if the indicted culprit was \"acquitted\" in the ordeal, he was banished from the kingdom. In other words, the proceedings by the grand jury were the actual trial; everyone it accused was punished in some way, and the community was rid of the malefactor, one way or another, as adjudicated \"by the oath of twelve knights of the hundred—or, should knights not be present, by the oath of twelve lawful freemen.\"\n\nThese proceedings did much to transfer power out of the hands of local barons and into the hands of the royal court and its judges. In 1215, moreover, the Fourth Lateran Council forbade clergymen from participating in trial by ordeal. After this date, trials after indictment by the grand jury were conducted by juries as well.\n\nThe large changes wrought in the English system of justice did not go unchallenged. The dispute over jurisdiction over the one-sixth of the population of England who were clergy was the chief grievance between the king and Becket. Disgruntled peers attempted to undo Henry's reforms by the Magna Carta forced on King John, but by that time the reforms had progressed too far—and their superiority over the system they had replaced was too obvious—for the forces of reaction to gain much ground. Henry II's reforms laid the groundwork for the system of trials in common law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986782", "title": "Attractive nuisance doctrine", "text": "Attractive nuisance doctrine\n\nThe attractive nuisance doctrine applies to the law of torts, in the United States. It states that a landowner may be held liable for injuries to children trespassing on the land if the injury is caused by an object on the land that is likely to attract children. The doctrine is designed to protect children who are unable to appreciate the risk posed by the object, by imposing a liability on the landowner. The doctrine has been applied to hold landowners liable for injuries caused by abandoned cars, piles of lumber or sand, trampolines, and swimming pools. However, it can be applied to virtually anything on the property of the landowner.\n\nThere is no set cut off point that defines youth. The courts will evaluate each \"child\" on case by case basis to see if the \"child\" qualifies as a youth.\n\nIf it is determined that the child was able to understand and appreciate the hazard, the doctrine of attractive nuisance will not likely apply.\n\nUnder the old common law, the plaintiff (either the child, or a parent suing on the child's behalf) had to show that it was the hazardous condition itself which lured the child onto the landowner's property. However, most jurisdictions have statutorily altered this condition, and now require only that the injury was foreseeable by the landowner.\n\nAccording to the Restatement of Torts standard, which is followed in many jurisdictions, there are five conditions that must be met for a land owner to be liable for tort damages to a child trespasser as a result of artificial hazards. \n\n\nStates that use the Restatement test include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2314198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314198", "title": "Bear-leader", "text": "Bear-leader\n\nA bear-leader was formerly a man who led bears about the country. In the Middle Ages and the Tudor period, these animals were chiefly used in the blood sport of bear-baiting and were led from village to village. Performing bears were also common; their keepers were generally Frenchmen or Italians.\n\nLater, the phrase \"bear-leader\" came colloquially to mean a tutor or guardian, who escorted any young man of rank or wealth on his travels.\n"}
{"id": "25044874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25044874", "title": "Between Past and Future", "text": "Between Past and Future\n\nBetween Past and Future is a book written by the German-born Jewish American political theorist, Hannah Arendt. It was published for the first time in 1961 by The Viking Press in the United States and by Faber and Faber in Great Britain. The first edition consisted of six essays, and two more were added to a 1968 revision. The book is a collection of various essays written between 1954 and 1968. The final version of the book includes essays dealing with different philosophical subjects including freedom, education, authority, tradition, history and politics. The subtitle of the final version is Eight Exercises in Political Thought.\n\nAll of the essays share a central idea. Humans are living between the past and the uncertain future. They must permanently think to exist, and each man is required to learn thinking. For a long time humans have resorted to tradition, but in modern times, this tradition has been abandoned, there is no more respect for tradition and culture. With her essays, Hannah Arendt tries to find solutions to help humans think again today. According to her, there is no way to live again with tradition, and modern philosophy has not succeeded in helping humans to live correctly.\n\nThe title of the preface is \"The Gap between Past and Future\". The first sentence of the preface is a citation of French poet and résistant René Char: \"Notre héritage n'est précédé d'aucun testament,\" translated by Arendt herself as \"our inheritance was left to us by no testament.\" For Arendt, this sentence perfectly illustrates the situation in which European peoples are left after the Second World War. It also illustrates the crisis in culture–the main subject of the sixth essay. Indeed, the absence of testament means the current breaking-off with tradition.\n\nTo characterize the way writers, men of letters and thinkers had lived the period of the French Résistance, Hannah Arendt speaks of a \"treasure.\" Indeed, René Char had stated during this period: \"If I survive, I know that I have to break with the aroma of these essential years, silently reject my treasure.\" This treasure is the experience of freedom all intellectuals made during this unique period, when they left their traditional occupation, that is a life focused on their personal affairs and the quest of themselves. With the Resistance, these men had at last found themselves, they had discovered what is freedom. But with the Liberation, they had lost their treasure, in other words they had either to return to their past occupations or to be involved again in public life but defending ideologies and engaging themselves into endless polemics, which had nothing to do with the time of the Resistance movement.\n\nThe example of the French Resistance is one of the several historical experiences in which a treasure appears and then disappears. It was the case with the Revolutions of 1776 in the United States, 1789 in France or 1956 in Budapest. Although this treasure has no name, it was called public happiness in the United States in the eighteenth century. Any time this treasure appeared, it did not remain, not because of historical events nor chance, \"but because no tradition had foreseen its appearance,\" no tradition or no \"testament\" had been able to announce the coming and the reality of this treasure. Indeed, tradition is what \"selects and names, (...) hands down and preserves, (...) indicates where the treasures are and what their worth is.\"\n\nAccording to Arendt, the origins of European philosophical thinking date back to Ancient Greece, with Aristotle and Plato. Plato had taught us that the truth was not present within the society and in public affairs, but in eternal ideas, as demonstrated in the allegory of the cave. On the contrary, Marx thought that the \"truth is not outside the affairs of men and their common world but precisely in them.\" The end of Platonic and Aristotelean tradition of philosophy came with Marx, according to whom the philosopher had to turn away from philosophy in order to be involved in society and human affairs in order to change the world.\n\nFor Arendt, Marxist philosophy considers that man creates himself, that his humanity is the result of his own activity, and that what distinguishes man from animal is not reason but labor. Thus Marx challenges the traditional praise of reason. Moreover, for Marx violence is the leading force that determines human relations, while for the traditional thought it is the most disgraceful of human actions and the symbol of tyranny.\n"}
{"id": "5836048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5836048", "title": "Celine's laws", "text": "Celine's laws\n\nCeline's Laws are a series of three laws regarding government and social interaction attributed to the fictional character Hagbard Celine from Robert Anton Wilson's and Robert Shea's \"Illuminatus! Trilogy\". Celine, a gentleman anarchist, serves as a mouthpiece for Wilson's libertarian, anarchist and sometimes completely uncategorizable ideas about the nature of humanity. Celine's Laws are outlined in the trilogy by a manifesto titled \"Never Whistle While You're Pissing.\" Wilson later goes on to elaborate on the laws in his nonfiction book, \"Prometheus Rising\", as being inherent consequences of average human psychology.\n\nA piece entitled \"Celine's Laws\" appears in Robert Anton Wilson's \"The Illuminati Papers\", which features articles written by Wilson under the guise of many of his characters from \"The Illuminatus! Trilogy\" alongside interviews with the author himself. One article pulls from another, as well as from the original Trilogy.\n\nCeline, in his manifesto, recognizes these are generalities, but also says that their basic principles can be used to find the source of every great decline and fall of nations, and goes on to claim they are as universal as Newton's Laws in applying to everything.\n\nReflecting the paranoia of the Cold War, Celine's First Law focuses around the common idea that to have national security, one must create a secret police. Since internal revolutionaries and external foes would make the secret police a prime target for infiltration, and because the secret police would by necessity have vast powers to blackmail and intimidate other members of the government, another higher set of secret police must be created to monitor the secret police. And an even higher set of secret police must then be created to monitor the higher order of secret police. Repeat ad nauseam.\n\nThis seemingly infinite regress goes on until every person in the country is spying on another, or until \"the funding runs out.\" And since this paranoid and self-monitoring situation inherently makes targets of a nation's own citizens, the average person in the nation is more threatened by the massive secret police complex than by whatever foe they were seeking to protect themselves from. Wilson points out that the Soviet Union, which suffered from this in spades, got to the point that it was terrified of painters and poets who could do little harm to them in reality.\n\nAt the same time, given the limitation of funding and scale, the perfect security state never truly emerges, leaving the populace still vulnerable from the original threat while also being threatened by the vast and Orwellian secret police.\n\nWilson rephrases this himself many times as \"communication occurs only between equals\". Celine calls this law \"a simple statement of the obvious\" and refers to the fact that everyone who labors under an authority figure tends to lie to and flatter that authority figure in order to protect themselves either from violence or from deprivation of security (such as losing one's job). In essence, it is usually more in the interests of any worker to tell his boss what he wants to hear, not what is true.\n\nIn any hierarchy, every level below the highest carries a subtle burden to see the world in the way their superiors expect it to be seen and to provide feedback to their superiors that their superiors want to hear. In the end, any hierarchical organization supports what its leaders already think is true more than it challenges them to think differently. The levels below the leaders are more interested in keeping their jobs than telling the truth.\n\nWilson, in \"Prometheus Rising,\" uses the example of J. Edgar Hoover's FBI. Hoover saw communist infiltrators and spies everywhere, and he told his agents to hunt them down. Therefore, FBI agents began seeing and interpreting everything they could as parts of the communist conspiracy. Some even went as far as framing people as communists, making largely baseless arrests and doing everything they could to satisfy Hoover's need to find and drive out the communist conspiracy. The problem is, such a conspiracy was greatly exaggerated. Hoover thought it was monolithic and pervasive, and any agent who dared point out the lack of evidence to Hoover would be at best denied promotions, and at worst labeled a communist himself and lose his job. Any agent who knew the truth would be very careful to hide the fact.\n\nMeanwhile, the FBI was largely ignoring the problem of organized crime (the Mafia), because Hoover insisted that organized crime did not exist on the national scale. Not only does the leader of the hierarchy see what he wants to see, but he also does not see what he does not want to see. Agents who pursued the issue of organized crime were sometimes marginalized within the organization or hounded into retirement.\n\nIn the end, Celine states, any hierarchy acts more to conceal the truth from its leaders than it serves to find the truth.\n\nCeline recognizes that the third law seems preposterous from the beginning. While a dishonest politician is interested only in bettering his own lot through abusing the public trust, an honest politician is far more dangerous since he is honestly interested in bettering society through political action, and that means writing and implementing more and more laws.\n\nCeline argues that creating more laws simply creates more criminals. Laws inherently restrict individual freedom, and the explosive rate at which laws are being created means that every citizen in the course of his daily life does not have the research capacity to not violate at least one of the plethora of laws. It is only through honest politicians trying to change the world through laws that true tyranny can come into being through excessive legislation.\n\nCorrupt politicians simply line their own pockets. Honest idealist politicians cripple the people's freedom through enormous numbers of laws. So corrupt politicians are preferable according to Celine, despite the possibility of an honest politician who honestly opposes the formation of new laws (or wants to do away with some).\n\n"}
{"id": "2498964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2498964", "title": "Coalition for the Prevention of Alcohol Problems", "text": "Coalition for the Prevention of Alcohol Problems\n\nThe Coalition for the Prevention of Alcohol Problems is a Washington D.C.-based coalition of 24 public health and consumer groups co-chaired by George Hacker of the Alcohol Policies Project at the Center for Science in the Public Interest and Stacia Murphy of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence.\n\nMembers include the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), the American Council on Alcohol Problems, the Temperance League of Kentucky, the General Board of Global Ministries and the Illinois Church Action on Alcohol and Addiction Problems, among others. Over 120 organizations now participate in the Coalition for the Prevention of Alcohol Problems.\n\nThe group advocates raising taxes on beer, wine, and liquor, limiting alcohol advertising on television and radio, and opposes alcohol advertising that may target youths.\n\nThere are several issues which the Coalition has identified as priorities. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52638248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52638248", "title": "Common Commercial Policy (EU)", "text": "Common Commercial Policy (EU)\n\nThe European Union's (EU) Common Commercial Policy or EU Trade Policy is the policy whereby EU member states delegate authority to the European Commission to negotiate their external trade relations, with the aim of increasing trade amongst themselves and their bargaining power vis-à-vis the rest of the world. The Common Commercial Policy is logically necessitated by the existence of the Customs Union, which in turn is also the foundation upon which the Single Market and Monetary Union were later established. \n\nThe six original member states had signed the 1957 Treaty of Rome, establishing the EU's forerunner, the European Economic Community, with the aim of facilitating greater trade and investment amongst themselves and strengthening their bargaining power with outside states. As signatories to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the removal of tariffs between them required the formation of a customs union, with a common external tariff applied by all members to their trade with the rest of the world.. Customs unions of the past, such as the Southern African Customs Union, had relied upon a dominant partner, in that case South Africa, to set the external tariff vis-à-vis the rest of the world on behalf of junior states in the arrangement. In sharp contrast, the Community member states decided that they would jointly share in the management of a common external commercial policy by delegating authority to the commonly appointed supranational body of the European Commission, and scrutinising its decisions via the common institutions they had established - namely, the Council of Ministers, and later, additionally, the European Parliament.\n\nThe common commercial policy officially came into existence in July 1968 alongside the common external tariff, following the 12 year grace period for the 1957 Treaty of Rome's signatory states to align their trade policies. In practice, however, member states had sought to take advantage of their combined bargaining strength prior to this. This included the Commission concluding, a Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) and Association Agreements at the bilateral level, including, amongst others, with Israel in 1964, as well within the multilateral Kennedy Round of GATT negotiations, lasting from 1963-1967.\n\nIn the intervening decades of managing the EU's Common Commercial Policy, the European Commission has developed a deep expertise in international trade, with its Directorate-General for Trade (DG Trade) becoming one of the best staffed, and most capable negotiating teams in the world. Along with the United States of America, it is one of few entities able to negotiate complex trade agreements in parallel. It is has also played a key role in the development of global trade liberalisation, as a founding member of the World Trade Organisation, with former European Commissioner for Competition (1985-1989) Peter Sutherland being its founding Director General, and European Commissioner for Trade (1999-2004) Pascal Lamy later following in his footsteps.\n\nHistorically, as laid down in the 1957 Treaty of Rome, the European Commissioner for Trade, acting on behalf of the European Commission, has always had to first seek approval from the member state governments in the Council of Ministers (now Council of the EU), before either taking retaliatory trade measures (e.g. anti-dumping) or conducting trade negotiations. This, has, since the inception of the Common Commercial Policy occurred by qualified majority voting, though the Council tends to act by consensus when possible. \n\nThe Lisbon reform Treaty further clarified what was already the case by defining the Common Commercial Policy as an exclusive competency, only to be acted upon by member states at the EU level.\n\nSuccessive treaty changes have also empowered the European Parliament in the trade realm. Today the decision-making process for the implementation of EU Common Commercial Policy is under the auspices of the Ordinary Legislative Procedure (formerly called the co-decision procedure): \n\nThis necessitates the European Commission, in order to take any actions within the Common Commercial Policy, to first table a legislative proposal, usually drafted by DG Trade, to the relevant European Parliamentary committees (the most relevant being the International Trade Committee) eventually making its way to a full vote of the plenary, and simultaneously submit it to the Council of EU working parties and EU member state ministers. Both the European Parliament and the Council of the EU have powers to amend said proposal and must agree on a common final text.\n\nWith global tariffs falling, and an increasingly integrated and complex Single Market, European Union member states have shown a growing appetite to conclude bilateral and multilateral agreements that do not pertain to exclusive competencies of the Union, such as agreements on investment and intellectual property with third countries. Such trade deals are said to be \"mixed agreements\" and include the member states themselves as signatories, rather than just the EU. Owing to a different legal basis within the EU treaties, the elements that do not fall under exclusive competency require unanimity in the Council of the EU and must be ratified by the respective constitutional arrangements of the 28 EU member states, usually requiring the consent of national parliaments, and depending on the issue, may include regional parliaments or even referenda. For the elements that fall outside exclusive competencies, the European Parliament loses its amendment powers, but usually retains an overall veto via the Special Legislative Procedures laid down in the treaties for the scrutiny of EU foreign relations.\n\nThe EU is also held to account in the way it conducts its commercial policy and general foreign relations via Article 3:5 TEU, which states that:\n\nHow this might influence the EU's Common Commercial Policy in the future is not year clear.\n\n"}
{"id": "22667326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22667326", "title": "Cook Islanders", "text": "Cook Islanders\n\nCook Islanders or Cook Islands Māori are residents of the Cook Islands, which is composed of 15 islands and atolls in Polynesia in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nFrom a legal standpoint, there is no such thing as a Cook Islands citizenship. The Cook Islands is a self-governing country in free association with New Zealand and is part of the Realm of New Zealand. As such, Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens.\n\nThe Cook Islands does not issue its own passports, a privilege usually assumed by virtually all sovereign countries, but places this responsibility in the hands of the New Zealand Government which issues passports for New Zealand citizens who are also Cook Islands nationals.\n\nOn the other hand, Cook Islands nationality is differentiated from that of the rest of the New Zealand citizens.\n\nThese provisions setting out qualifications for the status of a permanent resident of the Cook Islands are supplemented by other legislation to regulate the granting of permanent resident status to others, qualifications to be held by a permanent resident, and conditions under which that status may be withdrawn.\n\n\"Nationality\" in this sense may be distinguished from \"citizenship\". While it does not have distinct citizenship legislation, the Cook Islands has determined under its own laws who are its nationals and what privileges they enjoy by virtue of that status. Cook Islanders possess New Zealand citizenship with the full rights and privileges that status entails. At the same time, however, the Cook Islands has determined its own distinct nationality which, in effect, does not grant New Zealand citizens the same rights and privileges enjoyed by Cook Islanders in New Zealand.\n\nWell over 90 percent of Cook Islanders are either of full or partial descent of the native Polynesian people of the islands, who are known as Cook Islands Māori. Cook Islands Māori share many ancestral links with the Māori of New Zealand and the native people (Mā'ohi) of French Polynesia. Some Cook Islanders are also of other Polynesian, European (Papa'a), or Asian descent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3760500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3760500", "title": "Copyright registration", "text": "Copyright registration\n\nThe purpose of copyright registration is to place on record a verifiable account of the date and content of the work in question, so that in the event of a legal claim, or case of infringement or plagiarism, the copyright owner can produce a copy of the work from an official government source.\n\nBefore 1978, in the United States, federal copyright was generally secured by the act of publication with notice of copyright or by registration of an unpublished work. This has now been largely superseded by international conventions, principally the Berne Convention, which provide rights harmonized at an international level without a requirement for national registration. However, the U.S. still provides legal advantages for registering works of U.S. origin.\n\nIt is a common misconception to confuse copyright registration with the granting of copyright. Copyright in most countries today is automatic on \"fixation\" – it applies as soon as the work is fixed in some tangible medium. This standard is established internationally by the Berne Convention (1886), which most countries have signed onto since. Registration may be required by countries before joining Berne. For instance, the US required registration of copyrighted works before it signed onto the Berne Convention in 1989; at that point, registration was no longer required for works to be copyrighted in the US.\n\nThe observation that registration is not required in the United States, however, has been described as misleading. This is partly because registration remains a prerequisite to filing an infringement suit, and also because important remedies depend on prompt registration—such as attorneys fees and statutory damages. At least one commentator has questioned whether the conditioning of legal recourse on registration is inconsistent with the United States' obligations under the Berne Convention regarding \"formalities\".\n\nSome scholars and policy advocates (such as law professor and activist Lawrence Lessig and U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren) have called for returning to a system of registration requirements and possibly other formalities such as copyright notice. The system of automatic copyright on fixation has been cited as one of the factors behind the growth of so-called \"orphan works\" in, for instance, the U.S. Copyright Office's 2006 report on orphan works. UC Berkeley's Law School held a conference in 2013 on the question of \"Reform(aliz)ing Copyright for the Internet Age?\", noting that \"Formalities, which in the past three decades have largely disappeared from American copyright law, may be about to stage a comeback. ... [R]ecent research on formalities suggests that we can get many of the benefits that formalities promise for a more efficient and focused copyright law, without the problems that led us to do away with them in the first place.\"\n\n\nAll United States copyright registrations and renewals registered since 1978 have been published online at the\nCopyright Office website. Registrations and renewals prior to 1978 were published in semi-annual softcover Copyright Catalogs. For films from 1894 to 1969, inclusive, Library of Congress published hardcover Cumulative Copyright Catalogs, each covering ten or more years.\n\nPlease see the Copyright Catalog article for links to download digital copies of these pre-1978 US catalogs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13271293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13271293", "title": "Crack tax", "text": "Crack tax\n\nThe crack tax was the name given to the taxes on illegal drugs in Tennessee. The tax, under a law passed by the Tennessee General Assembly in January 2005, was applied to illegal substances including cocaine, marijuana, and moonshine. Drug dealers were required to pay anonymously at the state revenue office, where they received a stamp to prove their payment. If a drug dealer was arrested without having a stamp, the state would seek the money owed it.\n\nIn 2009 the Tennessee Supreme Court judged in a 3-2 ruling that the Crack Tax is unconstitutional, and repealed it.\n\nSteven Waters sought to challenge the statute after Tennessee Department of Revenue agents decided to seize his home in a drug sting operation. A county court found the law unconstitutional because it violated the drug dealer's Fifth Amendment right to protection from self-incrimination. The Tennessee Court of Appeals upheld the lower court's decision, unanimously declaring the law to be \"arbitrary, capricious and unreasonable, and therefore invalid under the constitution of this state.\" The opinion was written by Judge Sharon G. Lee.\n\nGovernor Phil Bredesen stated on September 14, 2007 that the crack tax should be ended, though State Revenue Commissioner Reagan Farr has said that the state will continue to enforce the tax. A meeting was planned by officials with the state attorney general to determine whether to appeal to the Tennessee Supreme Court. Since 2005, Tennessee had collected more than $6 million from the crack tax, much of which came from confiscated property. In 2006 alone, the state collected $1.8 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "59214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59214", "title": "Customs", "text": "Customs\n\nCustoms is an authority or agency in a country responsible for collecting tariffs and for controlling the flow of goods, including animals, transports, personal, and hazardous items, into and out of a country. The movement of people into and out of a country is normally monitored by migration authorities, under a variety of names and arrangements. Immigration authorities normally check for appropriate documentation, verify that a person is entitled to enter the country, apprehend people wanted by domestic or international arrest warrants, and impede the entry of people deemed dangerous to the country. Compare illegal emigration.\n\nEach country has its own laws and regulations for the import and export of goods into and out of a country, which its customs authority enforces. The import or export of some goods may be restricted or forbidden. \nIn most countries, customs are attained through government agreements and international laws. A customs duty is a tariff or tax on the importation (usually) or exportation (unusually) of goods. \nCommercial goods not yet cleared through customs are held in a customs area, often called a bonded store, until processed. All authorized ports are recognized customs areas.\n\nAt airports, customs functions as the point of no return for all passengers; once passengers have cleared customs, they cannot go back.\n\nIn many countries, customs procedures for arriving passengers at many international airports and some road crossings are separated into red and green channels. Passengers with goods to declare (carrying goods above the permitted customs limits and/or carrying prohibited items) go through the red channel. Passengers with nothing to declare (carrying goods within the permitted customs limits and not carrying prohibited items) go through the green channel. However, entry into a particular channel constitutes a legal declaration, if a passenger going through the green channel is found to be carrying goods above the customs limits or prohibited items, he or she may be prosecuted for making a false declaration to customs, by virtue of having gone through the green channel. Each channel is a point of no return, once a passenger has entered a particular channel, they cannot go back.\n\nAustralia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States do not officially operate a red and green channel system; however, some airports copy this layout.\n\nAirports in EU countries such as Finland, Ireland or the United Kingdom, also have a blue channel. As the EU is a customs union, travellers between EU countries do not have to pay customs duties. Value-added tax and excise duties may be applicable if the goods are subsequently sold, but these are collected when the goods are sold, not at the border. Passengers arriving from other EU countries go through the blue channel, where they may still be subject to checks for prohibited or restricted goods. Luggage tickets for checked luggage travelling within the EU are green-edged so they may be identified. In most EU member states, travellers coming from other EU countries can simply use the green lane.\n\nAll airports in the United Kingdom operate a channel system, however some don't have a red channel, they instead have a red point phone which serves the same purpose.\n\nCustoms is part of one of the three basic functions of a government, namely: administration; maintenance of law, order, and justice; and collection of revenue. However, in a bid to mitigate corruption, many countries have partly privatised their customs. This has occurred by way of contracting pre-shipment inspection agencies, which examine the cargo and verify the declared value before importation occurs. The country's customs is obliged to accept the agency's report for the purpose of assessing duties and taxes at the port of entry.\n\nWhile engaging a pre-shipment inspection agency may appear justified in a country with an inexperienced or inadequate customs establishment, the measure has not been able to plug the loophole and protect revenue. It has been found that evasion of customs duty escalated when pre-shipment agencies took over. It has also been alleged that involvement of such agencies has caused shipping delays. Privatization of customs has been viewed as a fatal remedy.\n\nThe basic customs law is harmonized across Europe within the European Union Customs Union. This includes customs duties and restrictions. Customs tax from €22 to €150. In addition, see regulations of each member state.\n\nFor customs declarations in the EU and in Switzerland, Norway and Iceland, the \"Single Administrative Document\" (SAD) is used as a basis.\n\nUp to €22, there are no taxes. From €22 up to €150, it is necessary to pay VAT (EUSt in Germany), which is 7% or 19% depending on the goods. From €150 it is necessary to pay VAT and customs.\n\nCustoms may be very strict, especially for goods shipped from anywhere outside the EU. Up to €10 goods/package.\n\nCustoms in Italy takes additional 22% VAT (Value-added tax) for goods imported from outside the European Union even if the VAT is already paid to the origin country sender.\n\nUp to €22, there are no taxes. From €22 up to €150, it is necessary to pay VAT (DPH in Czech/Slovak), which is 21%. From €150, it is necessary to pay VAT and customs. Customs may range from zero to 10% depending on the type of imported goods.\n\nThe United States imposes tariffs or \"customs duties\" on imports of goods: 3% on average. The duty is levied at the time of import and is paid by the importer of record. Individuals arriving in the United States may be exempt from duty on a limited amount of purchases, and on goods temporarily imported (such as laptop computers) under the ATA Carnet system. Customs duties vary by country of origin and product, with duties ranging from zero to 81% of the value of the goods. Goods from many countries are exempt from duty under various trade agreements. Certain types of goods are exempt from duty regardless of source. Customs rules differ from other import restrictions. Failure to comply with customs rules can result in seizure of goods and civil and criminal penalties against involved parties. The U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) enforces customs rules. All goods entering the United States are subject to inspection by CBP prior to legal entry.\n\nCustoms may be very strict. Up to u$300 overall, there are no taxes. From u$300 to u$1500, tax is 50% of the value of all acquired goods sumed up.\n\nJuan Pablo Escobar writes, in \"My Father Pablo Escobar\", \"At the time Pablo Escobar was trafficking cocaine, Colombia's major airports had what was known as \"magic mail\", a sort of parallel customs system that made it possible to bring anything into the country without leaving a paper trail – in exchange for a fat bribe.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37968451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37968451", "title": "Defensive gun use", "text": "Defensive gun use\n\nDefensive gun use (DGU) is the use or presentation of a firearm for self-defense, defense of others or in some cases, protecting property. The frequency of incidents involving DGU, and their effectiveness in providing safety and reducing crime is a controversial issue in gun politics and criminology. Different authors and studies employ different criteria for what constitutes a defensive gun use which leads to controversy in comparing statistical results. Perceptions of defensive gun use are recurring themes in discussions over gun rights, gun control, armed police, open and concealed carry of firearms.\n\nEstimates over the number of defensive gun uses vary wildly, depending on the study's definition of a defensive gun use, survey design, population, criteria, time-period studied, and other factors. Low-end estimates are in the range of 55,000 to 80,000 incidents per year, while high end estimates reach of 4.7 million per year. Discussion over the number and nature of DGU and the implications to gun control policy came to a head in the late 1990s.\n\nEstimates of DGU from the National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) are consistently lower than those from other studies. A 2000 study suggested that this may be because the NCVS measures different activities than the other surveys do.\n\nThe National Self-Defense Survey and the NCVS, vary in their methods, time-frames covered, and questions asked. DGU questions were asked of all the NSDS sample. Due to screening questions in the NCVS survey, only a minority of the NCVS sample were asked a DGU question.\n\nLower-end estimates include that by David Hemenway, a professor of Health Policy at the Harvard School of Public Health, which estimated approximately 55,000–80,000 such uses each year.\n\nAnother survey including DGU questions was the National Survey on Private Ownership and Use of Firearms, NSPOF, conducted in 1994 by the Chiltons polling firm for the Police Foundation on a research grant from the National Institute of Justice. in 1997 NSPOF projected 4.7 million DGU per year by 1.5 million individuals after weighting to eliminate false positives.\nAnother estimate has estimated approximately 1 million DGU incidents in the United States.\n\nA commonly cited 1995 study by Kleck and Gertz estimated that between 2.1 and 2.5 million DGUs occur in the United States each year. After Kleck and Gertz accounted for telescoping, their estimate was reduced to 2.1 million DGU per year. Kleck and Gertz conducted this survey in 1992, and Kleck began publicizing the 2.5 million DGU per year estimate in 1993. By 1997, the 2.5 million per year number from Kleck & Gertz' study had been cited as fact by news articles, editorial writers, and the Congressional Research Service. Besides the NSDS and NCVS surveys, ten national and three state surveys summarized by Kleck and Gertz gave 764 thousand to 3.6 million DGU per year. In the report \"Guns in America: National Survey on Private Ownership and Use of Firearms\" by Philip J. Cook and Jens Ludwig, projected 4.7 million DGU which Cook and Ludwig explained by pointing out all of the NSPOF sample were asked the DGU question. Cook and Ludwig also compared the U.S. crime rate to the number of DGU reported by Kleck and similar studies and said that their estimate of DGU is improbably high.\n\nBoth Kleck and Gertz' and Lott's research are highly controversial within the academic community. Hemenway has asserted that Kleck and Gertz' methodology suffers from several biases leading them to overestimate the number of DGU, including telescoping, the social desirability bias, and the possibility that \"some gun advocates will lie to help bias estimates upwards.\" Hemenway contends the Kleck and Gertz study is unreliable and no conclusions can be drawn from it. He argues that there are too many \"false positives\" in the surveys, and finds the NCVS figures more reliable, yielding estimates of around 100,000 defensive gun uses per year. Applying different adjustments, other social scientists suggest that between 250,000 and 370,000 incidences per year. In 1996, Cook and Ludwig reported that based on their analysis of the National Survey of Private Ownership of Firearms, which \"incorporated a sequence of DGU questions very similar to that used by Kleck and Gertz,\" they estimated that 4.7 million defensive gun uses occur in the United States per year. However, they questioned whether this estimate was credible because the same survey suggests that approximately 132,000 perpetrators were either wounded or killed at the hands of armed civilians in 1994. They note that this number is about the same as the number of people hospitalized for gunshot injuries that year, but that \"almost all of those are there as a result of criminal assault, suicide attempt, or accident.\"\n\nKleck asserts errors in his critics' statements that his survey's estimates of defensive gun uses linked with specific crime types, or that involved a wounding of the offender, are implausibly large compared to estimates of the total numbers of such crimes. The total number of nonfatal gunshot woundings, whether medically treated or not, is unknown, and no meaningful estimates can be derived from his survey regarding defensive gun uses linked with specific crime types, or that involved wounding the offender, because the sample sizes are too small. The fact that some crime-specific estimates derived from the Kleck survey are implausibly large is at least partly a reflection of the small samples on which they are based - no more than 196 cases. Kleck states that his estimate of total defensive gun uses was based on nearly 5,000 cases. Thus, he argues, the implausible character of some estimates of small \"subsets\" of defensive gun uses is not a valid criticism of whether estimates of the \"total\" number of defensive gun uses are implausible or too high.\n\nMarvin Wolfgang, who was acknowledged in 1994 by the \"British Journal of Criminology\" as ″the most influential criminologist in the English-speaking world″, commented on Kleck's research concerning defensive gun use: \"I am as strong a gun-control advocate as can be found among the criminologists in this country. [...] The Kleck and Gertz study impresses me for the caution the authors exercise and the elaborate nuances they examine methodologically. I do not like their conclusions that having a gun can be useful, but I cannot fault their methodology. They have tried earnestly to meet all objections in advance and have done exceedingly well.\"\n\nA 1998 study by Philip Cook and Jens Ludwig replicated the Kleck and Gertz survey, but also concluded that the results of these surveys were far too high. A similar conclusion was reached by a 2018 RAND Corporation report, which stated that the Kleck-Gertz estimate of 2.5 million DGUs per year, and other similar estimates, \"are not plausible given other information that is more trustworthy, such as the total number of U.S. residents who are injured or killed by guns each year.\" The same report also stated that \"At the other extreme, the NCVS estimate of 116,000 DGU incidents per year almost certainly underestimates the true number,\" concluding that \"... there is still considerable uncertainty about the prevalence of DGU\".\n\nA 1994 study examined NCVS data and concluded that between 1987 and 1990, there were approximately 258,460 incidents in which firearms were used defensively in the United States, for an annual average of 64,615. The same study said that \"Firearm self-defense is rare compared with gun crimes.\" An article published by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, drawing its DGU from the NCVS, said: \"In 1992 offenders armed with handguns committed a record 931,000 violent crimes ... On average in 1987-92 about 83,000 crime victims per year used a firearm to defend themselves or their property. Three-fourths of the victims who used a firearm for defense did so during a violent crime; a fourth, during a theft, household burglary, or motor vehicle theft.\" A 2013 study, also released by the BJS, found that less than 1% of nonfatal violent crime victims during the 2007-2011 period reported using a gun to defend themselves. The same study reported that \"The percentage of nonfatal violent victimizations involving firearm use in self defense remained stable at under 2% from 1993 to 2011.\", reporting 235,700 instances of defensive use of a firearm between 2007-2011\n\nCook and Ludwig said of the NCVS, NSPOF, and Kleck surveys: \"The key explanation for the difference between the 108,000 NCVS estimate for the annual number of defensive gun uses and the several million from the surveys discussed earlier is that NCVS avoids the false-positive problem by limiting defensive gun use questions to persons who first reported that they were crime victims. Most NCVS respondents never have a chance to answer the defensive gun use question, falsely or otherwise.\"\n\nClayton Cramer and David Barnett say that such a structure could cause the NCVS to under-count defensive gun uses, because someone who has successfully defended themselves with a gun may not consider themselves a \"victim of a crime.\" In the NCVS, if one says that they have not been a victim of a crime, the survey assumes that there was no attempted crime and does not go on to ask if they have used a gun in self-defense. According to Jens Ludwig, estimates of the frequency of DGU from the NCVS appear to be too low, but those from phone surveys (like that conducted by Kleck and Gertz) appear to be too high.\n\nJohn Lott, an economist and guns rights advocate, argues in both \"More Guns, Less Crime\" and \"The Bias Against Guns\" that media coverage of defensive gun use is rare, noting that in general, only shootings ending in fatalities are discussed in news stories. In \"More Guns, Less Crime\", Lott writes that \"[s]ince in many defensive cases a handgun is simply brandished, and no one is harmed, many defensive uses are never even reported to the police\".\n\nAttempting to quantify this phenomenon, in the first edition of the book, published in May 1998, Lott wrote that \"national surveys\" suggested that \"98 percent of the time that people use guns defensively, they merely have to brandish a weapon to break off an attack.\" The higher the rate of defensive gun uses that do not end in the attacker being killed or wounded, the easier it is to explain why defensive gun uses are not covered by the media without reference to media bias. Lott cited the figure frequently in the media, including publications like the \"Wall Street Journal\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nIn 2002, he repeated the survey, and reported that brandishing a weapon was sufficient to stop an attack 95% of the time. Other researchers criticized his methodology, saying that his sample size of 1,015 respondents was too small for the study to be accurate and that the majority of similar studies suggest a value between 70 and 80 percent brandishment-only. Lott explained the lower brandishment-only rates found by others was at least in part due to the different questions that were asked. Most surveys used a recall period of \"Ever\" while some (Hart, Mauser, and Tarrance) used the previous five years. The Field Institute survey used periods of previous year, previous two years and ever. The NSPOF survey used a one-year recall period. Lott also used a one-year recall period and asked respondents about personal experiences only, due to questionable respondent recall of events past one year and respondent knowledge of DGU experiences of other household members.\n\nIn 2000, Hemenway published a survey which found that \"Guns are used to threaten and intimidate far more often than they are used in self defense\"; also that year, he published another survey which found that \"criminal gun use is far more common than self-defense gun use.\" Both of these surveys argued that many defensive gun uses may not be in the best interests of society. Also in 2000, Hemenway and his colleagues conducted a small survey that found that guns in the home were used more often to intimidate family members (13 respondents) than in self-defense (2 respondents). The same study stated that its results suggested that most self-defense gun uses did not occur in the home, and that non-gun weapons are used more often to thwart crime than guns are. A later survey by Hemenway et al. that included 5,800 California adolescents found that about 0.3% of these adolescents reported having used a gun in self-defense, whereas, in the same study, 4% of those adolescents reported that someone had threatened them with a gun. In a 2015 study co-authored with Sara Solnick, Hemenway analyzed data from the NCVS from 2007 to 2011 and identified only 127 instances of DGU.\n\nA study published in 2013 by the Violence Policy Center, using five years of nationwide statistics (2007-2011) compiled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation found that defensive gun uses occur an average of 67,740 times per year.\n\nA 2004 study surveyed the records of a Phoenix, Arizona newspaper, as well as police and court records, and found a total of 3 instances of defensive gun use over a 3.5 month period. In contrast, Kleck and Gertz's study would predict that the police should have noticed more than 98 DGU killings or woundings and 236 DGU firings at adversaries during this time.\n\nA 1995 study led by Arthur Kellermann, which examined 198 home invasion crimes in Atlanta, Georgia, found that in only 3 of these cases did victims use guns for self-protection. Of these three, none were injured, but one lost property. The authors concluded that \"Although firearms are often kept in the home for protection, they are rarely used for this purpose.\"\n\nA followup study in 1998 by Arthur Kellermann analyzed 626 shootings in three cities. The study found that \"For every time a gun in the home was used in a self-defense or legally justifiable shooting, there were four unintentional shootings, seven criminal assaults or homicides, and 11 attempted or completed suicides.\"\n\nThe Gun Violence Archive, which uses a methodology of counting incidents reported and verified by law enforcement or media, reports substantially lower numbers of defensive gun use in the US than studies based on polls. 1,980 and 2,043 incidents were reported and verified in 2016 and 2017, respectively.\n\nThe same data indicating that DGU against criminals is uncommon also indicates that it is often effective.\n\nA 2002 study looking at instances of DGU where convicted offenders were the defenders found that DGUs \"are not likely to provide similar social benefits, implying that prevalence estimates may not simultaneously estimate social benefits.\" Another study published the same year found that DGU is an effective deterrent against injury for some groups of people, but not others; notable groups for whom DGU did not provide benefits in this study included women, people living in rural areas, and those living in low-income homes. A 2009 study reported that gun owners were more likely to be shot in an assault than were non-gun owners, and concluded that the chances of DGU being successful for residents of urban areas may be low. Another 2009 study of NCVS data found that DGU was \"most often effective at helping the victim\" in the contexts in which it occurred, with an average of 92% of victims reporting that their DGU had been beneficial for them. A 2013 National Research Council report found that studies looking at the effectiveness of different self-protective strategies had consistently found that victims who used guns defensively had lower injury rates than did victims who used other strategies. A 2015 study by Solnick and Hemenway which analyzed NCVS data reported \"little evidence that [DGU] is uniquely beneficial in reducing the likelihood of injury or property loss.\"\n\nIndividuals who use guns defensively tend not to have extremely punitive attitudes toward criminals, but people with punitive attitudes may be somewhat more likely to own guns, and, thus, to use them defensively. A 2009 study found no support for the \"Southern culture of honor\" hypothesis, in that no significant relationship was seen between living in the Southern United States and defensive gun use.\n\n"}
{"id": "41650218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41650218", "title": "Facebook Zero", "text": "Facebook Zero\n\nFacebook Zero is an initiative undertaken by social networking service company Facebook in collaboration with mobile phone-based Internet providers, whereby the providers waive data (bandwidth) charges (also known as \"zero-rate\") for accessing Facebook on phones via a stripped-down text-only version of its mobile website (as opposed to the ordinary mobile website m.facebook.com that also loads pictures). The stripped-down version is available online only through providers who have entered the agreement with Facebook. Photos are not loaded by default. Users may still choose to view them by clicking through but regular data charges apply to photo use.\n\nPlans for Facebook Zero were first announced at the Mobile World Congress in February 2010 by Chamath Palihapitiya. In collaboration with 50 mobile operators around the world, it was officially of launched on May 18, 2010.\n\nSeveral carriers offer Facebook Zero:\n\nAn article by Christopher Mims in \"Quartz\" in September 2012 stated that Facebook Zero played a very important role in Facebook's expansion in Africa over the 18 months following the release of Facebook Zero, noting that data charges could be a significant component of mobile usage cost and the waiving of these charges reduced a significant disincentive for people in Africa to use Facebook.\n\nFacebook Zero was also credited as the inspiration for a similar initiative undertaken by Wikipedia titled Wikipedia Zero.\n\nGoogle Free Zone, a similar service launched by Google in November 2012, was viewed by Internet commentators as both inspired by and a potential challenge to Facebook Zero.\n\nThe \"Subsecretaría de Telecomunicaciones\" of Chile ruled that \"zero-rating\" services like Wikipedia Zero, Facebook Zero, and Google Free Zone, that subsidize mobile data usage, violate net neutrality laws and had to end the practise by June 1, 2014.\n\nIn 2015, researchers evaluating how Facebook Zero shapes information and communication technology use in the developing world found that 11% of Indonesians who said they used Facebook also said they did not use the Internet. 65% of Nigerians, 61% of Indonesians, and 58% of Indians agree with the statement that \"Facebook is the Internet\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50947958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50947958", "title": "Fiji Performing Rights Association", "text": "Fiji Performing Rights Association\n\nThe Fiji Performing Rights Association (FPRA) is a copyright collective representing South Pacific composers, lyricists and music publishers. The association's head office is located in Suva, Fiji, it is the largest performing rights association in the south pacific and also a member of Australasian Performing Right Association.\n\nIn 1993, FPRA was established in Fiji, Under a licence agreement with Australasian Performing Right Association.\n\nEvery year in the mid, FPRA host its own music awards to honour achievements by south pacific music artists.\n\n\nThe 2018 FPRA Music Awards was held on the 12th of May at the Grand Pacific Hotel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53341844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53341844", "title": "Golus nationalism", "text": "Golus nationalism\n\nGolus nationalism (Yiddish: גלות נאַציאָנאַליזם \"Golus natsionalizm\" after golus), or Diaspora Nationalism, is a national movement of the Jewish people that argued for furthering Jewish national and cultural life in the large Jewish centers throughout the world, while at the same time seeking recognition for a Jewish national identity from world powers.\n\nGolus Nationalism was conceived by Nathan Birnbaum, the Austrian philosopher who had given Zionism its name. Although Birnbaum was an early theorist of Zionism and participated in the First Zionist Congress (1897), he broke with the movement shortly after. Birnbaum began to develop a theory of pan-Judaism (\"Alljudentum\"), which embraced Jewish life in the Diaspora.\n\nBirnbaum was opposed to the idea that Jewish assimilation was inevitable, inspired by the Jews of Eastern Europe, who had retained Yiddish as a language, had a robust folk culture, and banded together in recognizably distinct communities.\n\nBirnbaum made several attempts to have a Jewish national identity recognized by state powers. In 1907, he unsuccessfully advocated for Yiddish to be included as a Jewish national language in the Austro-Hungarian census. The following year, he ran a popular but fruitless campaign for a seat in Parliament. In 1910, he again attempted to have Yiddish recognized. Birnbaum felt that if he could get state recognition for elements of Jewish nationhood, he could petition for Jews to have shared control of a province in Galicia. He was encouraged by the fact that the Austro-Hungarian Empire was offering the possibility of autonomous regions to ethnic groups and nationalities.\n\nBirnbaum also propagandized on behalf of Yiddish as a language, coining the words \"Yiddishism\" and \"Yiddishist.\" He organized Yiddish events in Vienna, translate Yiddish authors into German, and in 1905 established a student organization for the furtherance of the language called \"Yidishe Kultur\". In 1908, he organized an international conference on the Yiddish language in Czernowitz, in which different Jewish factions squared off as to whether Yiddish should be declared the official language of Jewish nationalism or instead one of several Jewish languages.\n\nGolus nationalism prefigured a variety of attempts to reconcile Jewish identity with the experience of diaspora. Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan would wrestle with similar themes, developing a theory that Judaism should be seen as a civilization, rather than a religion, and founding Reconstructionist Judaism on this theory. Yiddishist Abraham Golomb wrote frequently about maintaining a Jewish identity in the Diaspora, and the centrality of Yiddish and Hebrew in this pursuit.\n"}
{"id": "17016915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17016915", "title": "History of United States patent law", "text": "History of United States patent law\n\nThe history of United States patent law started even before the U.S. Constitution was adopted, with some state-specific patent laws. The history spans over more than three centuries.\n\nThe oldest form of a patent was seen in Medieval times. Medieval rulers would grant an exclusive right to a \"monopoly.\" This was sometimes an attempt to raise funds without taxing, although taxes were still imposed. In England such grants took the form of \"letters patent\", issued by the sovereign to inventors who petitioned and were approved: a grant of 1331 to John Kempe and his Company is the earliest authenticated instance of a royal grant made with the avowed purpose of instructing the English in a new industry.\n\nIn 1474, in Venice, the first known patent law that granted inventors exclusive rights to their inventions was passed as a result of an economic policy. Thereafter, patents were a formal means of granting and restricting monopolies in Europe. The Venice statute had all the basic elements of a modern patent system—a requirement of novelty, proof of usefulness, and a requirement that the patentee describe and explain the invention.\n\nIn 1624, in England, the Statute of Monopolies was passed primarily to restrict the power of the sovereign in granting monopolies. The Statute of Monopolies, for the first time in history, defined the following: that inventions had to be \"new\" to attain a monopoly, and that a monopoly would be granted only for a limited period of time (in this case 14 years.) These aspects have carried forward and helped shape the United States Patent Law. The Statute of Monopolies attempted to reinforce the advantages to society of new inventions; however, a French Patent Law, established in 1791, focused on the inventor and emphasized the invention as the inventor's property. The US Patent Law today adopts both streams of thought; however, the concept of monopolies and patents, in the US, initiated with the British thought of advantages to society.\n\nIn America in the early colonial period, there were no general laws providing for the issuing of patents. However, people who invented new products could appeal to the colonial governments, which could grant them the exclusive commercial right to the products. The earliest of such rights granted in the colonies was in the state of Massachusetts in 1641. The Massachusetts General Court gave Samuel Winslow an exclusive right to utilize a new process of making salt for 10 years. The case is unofficially known of as the first \"patent\" in America.\n\nOther similar exclusive commercial rights were granted in other colonies and later states of the United States of America. These acts were all private acts of the colony or state governments to grant commercial privileges to specific people, before general laws regarding the issuing of patents were passed in each state. This custom of using private acts to grant patents is often said to have come from the early in England, particularly the English Statute of Monopolies of 1624.\n\nNear the end of the 18th century, states started to pass general patent laws replacing the case-specific acts. These state-level general acts set up standardized procedures for patent applications, an examination process, and general terms for patent holdings. The first state to pass a general patent law was South Carolina, in 1784.\n\nThis first general patent act of the state of South Carolina is titled \"An Act for the Encouragement of Arts and Sciences.\" Although most of its terms concerned the protection of copyrights, it also included the following provision: \"The Inventors of useful machines shall have a like exclusive privilege of making or vending their machines for the like term of 14 years, under the same privileges and restrictions hereby granted to, and imposed on, the authors of books.\"\n\nMany other states followed suit in passing general patent acts, most using a 14-year term, resembling English practices. However, without a federal system, patentees who wanted to use their invention in more than one state had to apply separately for patents in each state, which was expensive and time-consuming. A standardized national patent law was needed for more efficient patent grating process.\n\nThe Constitution of the United States, first adopted on September 17, 1787, had a provision for protecting intellectual properties. The provision is found in Article I, Section 8:\n\n\"The Congress shall have Power ... To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.\"\n\nThe Patent Act of 1790 was the first federal patent statute of the United States. It was titled \"An Act to promote the Progress of Useful Arts.\" The statute was concise, including only seven sections. Similar to the state statutes, the federal statute allowed the patentees a 14-year term of exclusive right to use their inventions, without the possibility of an extension. This was unsatisfactory to many inventors who wanted extended protection time for their inventions. They argued that 14 years were not enough, given that it often took several years already for their inventions to be commercialized. Another important point of the Patent Act of 1790 was that it did not allow foreigners to obtain patents in the United States.\n\nIn the Patent Act of 1790, the power to grant or refuse patents was given exclusively to three people: the Secretary of State, the Secretary of War, and the Attorney General. Patent applicants needed the consent of at least two of the three officials to obtain a patent. The act provided that an examination process be carried out by the same three officials to decide whether the inventions were \"not before known or used\" and \"sufficiently useful and important\". This examination process was soon criticized as taking unreasonably too much time. At the same time, the people responsible for examining and granting patents had other important duties to attend to and could not carry out the process quickly. It took several months for a patent to be examined.\n\nIn 1793, the 1790 act was repealed and replaced by the Patent Act of 1793. The act was notable for its definition of the subjects of patents which remains unchanged until now: \"any new and useful art, machine, manufacture or composition of matter and any new and useful improvement on any art, machine, manufacture or composition of matter\". In this later act, the patent application process was much simpler than in the Patent Act of 1790. People who sought patents only needed to petition the Secretary of State and then it was the duty of the Secretary of State to acquire examination from the Attorney General. The examination process was simplified by dropping the clause that patented inventions needed to be \"sufficiently useful and important\". It was enough that inventions were somehow useful, even if the usefulness was insignificant, and \"not before known or used\" to be granted patents.\n\nObtaining patents became much easier during the period after the Patent Act of 1793 and the next federal Patent Act passed in 1836. Between the Patent Act of 1790 and that of 1793, only 57 patents were granted, but by July 2, 1836, a total of 10,000 patents had been granted. This however, came at an expense of the quality of patents granted. Thomas Jefferson, who was Secretary of State at the time, realized the need to employ experts into the patent examination process. He hired personnel from the University of Pennsylvania to help with determining the novelty and usefulness of the inventions. When more and more patent applications came in, the patent office, which was still loosely organized, was unable to adequately examine every application. In his book \"Science in the Federal Government: A History of Policies and Activities\" Dupree commented: \"The patent office languished, but inventors were ever more active.\" Patents were granted to objects and procedures which were not original inventions or not useful. As this ineffective situation went on, more lawsuits were filed over patent validity and infringement. Patentees were dissatisfied, and courts were overwhelmed with patent lawsuits.\n\nIn 1836, another federal Patent Act was passed to reform problems in the previous acts. The Patent Act of 1836 was significant in a number of ways. Firstly, the act created an official Patent Office, which was still a part of the Department of State, but no longer under the duties of the Secretary of State. It freed the Secretary of State from the enormous duty of granting patents, when he had many other significant tasks to tend to. Instead of the Secretary of State, the Commissioner of Patents chaired the Patent Office. This restructuring of the patent office allowed for more efficient process of patent applications. Secondly, the act prevented the applications of already patented inventions by requiring information on newly granted patents to be made publicly accessible at libraries throughout the country. Anyone could consult this information to check whether his or her invention was truly original before filing for a patent. This greatly improved the quality of patents granted. Thirdly, the act resolved a long-standing dissatisfaction on patent terms by allowing, for the first time, a possible extension of 7 years of protection in addition to the original 14-year term. With the permission of the Commissioner of Patent, upon appropriate reasons, patentees could appeal to have their protection extended. And lastly, it finally removed the US nationality and residency requirements, making it possible for foreigners to file for US patents.\n\nOn July 13, 1836, Patent Number 1 was granted. In 1836, The Patent Office also went back and renumbered all previous patents with a suffix \"X\". Prior to this, patents were listed by names and dates and not numbers. After the renumbering, the very first US Patent became \"Patent 1X\". On December 15 of the same year, a fire demolished the Patent Office, and only 2,845 patents were recovered. This resulted in a law that required all patent applications to be submitted in doubles. This law for double copies of patent applications was dropped in 1870 when the Patent Office started printing.\n\nIn 1849, the Patent Office was transferred from the State Department to the Department of the Interior.\n\nThe 1890 depression resulted in an unfavorable view of patents. The depression was marked by a strained economy in which patents were perceived as a method of promoting monopolies. This negative attitude towards patents led to the inception of the Sherman Antitrust Act. During the depression, many opposed patents, and this is depicted in the tendency of courts to invalidate patents. The conclusion of the depression also ended the negative attitudes towards patents; however, the Patent Law underwent opposition again in the Great Depression. This skepticism towards patents again returned after World War II in another period of economic depression.\n\nIn 1925, the Patent Office was transferred again from the Department of the Interior to the Department of Commerce, where it is today.\n\nIn 1952, the basic structure of the modern Patent Law was laid out with the Patent Act of 1952. In this amendment, an inventor had to describe not only his invention but also the basis for its infringement. Furthermore, an invention needed to be new and useful, as well as \"non- obvious\" to be granted a patent. This amendment, which required patents to be non-obvious, was implemented to keep individuals from taking ownership or taking away from the base pool of knowledge in a particular field.\n\nIn the 1980 and '90s the atmosphere once again became pro-patent. The patent was seen as not only a business need but also a means to protect inventors. Patents became important, and they began to signify the importance of technology, invention, and discovery to the US.\n\nIn 1982, the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals was abolished, and patent cases were heard in the newly established Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit observed patents favorably and also started to provide more protection to their owners.\n\nIn 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (AIA) enacted the most significant change to the U.S. patent system since 1952. After decades of debate in the U.S. comparing and contrasting the pros and cons of \"first-to-invent\" versus \"first-to-file\" systems, the AIA switched the U.S. patent system from \"first to invent\" to \"first inventor to file\". The U.S. had been the last remaining country still using a first-to-invent system. The AIA reforms eliminate interference proceedings and develop post-grant opposition. Its central provisions went into effect March 16, 2013 for patent applications filed that day or afterwards.\n\nThe original patent term under the 1790 Patent Act was decided individually for each patent, but \"not exceeding fourteen years\". The 1836 Patent Act (5 Stat. 117, 119, 5) provided (in addition to the fourteen-year term) an extension \"for the term of seven years from and after the expiration of the first term\" in certain circumstances. In 1861 the seven-year extension was eliminated and the term changed to seventeen years (12 Stat. 246, 249, 16) (from grant date). The signing of the 1994 Uruguay Round Agreements Act then changed the patent term from seventeen years from the date of issue to the current twenty years from the earliest filing date.\n\n\nThe only President of the United States to hold a patent was Abraham Lincoln for a \"device to buoy vessels over shoals\"; it consisted of a set of retractable floats mounted on the sides of riverboats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13009794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13009794", "title": "Importation right", "text": "Importation right\n\nAn importation right is the legal ability to import a product into a certain country.\n\nImportation means \"sending goods from one country to another\". Right means \"in accord with law...\" \n\n"}
{"id": "9652357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9652357", "title": "Inholding", "text": "Inholding\n\nAn inholding is privately owned land inside the boundary of a national park, national forest, state park, or similar publicly owned, protected area. In-holdings result from private ownership of lands predating the designation of the park or forest area, or the expansion of the park area to encompass the privately owned property. \nIn the United States, the main causes of inholdings is that all of the Federal land-management agencies were formed over a century after the government sold and issued land grants to private citizens to fund the administration of the United States. When the park system was formed, many of these now-called \"inholdings\" had been in private ownership for generations and not available for sale when the park was formed. \nOver the last several decades, conservation groups have lobbied the United States Congress to acquire private residences especially within designated wilderness areas, either by direct purchase or via land exchange which trades the inholding for other federal lands located outside of national parks or wilderness areas.\n\nGenerally, owners of inholdings are allowed to use their properties in a manner similar to other private property owners in their state. However, they may be subject to additional federal and agency-specific regulations regarding access to their homes and use of their lands by their Federal agency neighbors.\n\nUnder the Wilderness Act (1964), the designated area cannot include the privately owned property within the border. Under the Act, federal agencies have an obligation to provide property owners \"adequate access\" across public lands should their property lie within the designated wilderness boundary. As such, many public agencies have allowed limited use roads to be built in wilderness areas. Under the Eastern Wilderness Act, public agencies are allowed to seize wilderness inholdings if the owner of the inholding manages his land in a manner \"incompatible with management of such area as wilderness\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19555171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19555171", "title": "Invitation to treat", "text": "Invitation to treat\n\nAn invitation to treat (or invitation to bargain in the United States) is a concept within contract law. In Andrew Burrows' words, an invitation to treat is\n\"...an expression of willingness to negotiate. A person making an invitation to treat does not intend to be bound as soon as it is accepted by the person to whom the statement is addressed.\"\nA contract is a legally binding voluntary agreement that is formed when one person makes an offer, and the other accepts it. There may be some preliminary discussion before an offer is formally made. Such pre-contractual representations are known variously as “invitations to treat”, “requests for information” or “statements of intention”.\n\nTrue offers may be accepted to form a contract, whereas representations such as invitations to treat may not. However, although an invitation to treat cannot be accepted it should not be ignored, for it may nevertheless affect the offer. For example, where an offer is made in response to an invitation to treat, the offer may incorporate the terms of the invitation to treat (unless the offer expressly incorporates different terms). If, as in the \"Boots\" case (described below) the offer is made by an action without any negotiations—such as presenting goods to a cashier—the offer will be presumed to be on the terms of the invitation to treat.\n\nGenerally, advertisements are not offers but invitations to treat, so the person advertising is not compelled to sell. In \"Partridge v Crittenden\" [1968] 1 WLR 1204, a defendant who was charged with \"offering for sale protected birds\"—bramblefinch cocks and hens that he had advertised for sale in a newspaper—was \"not\" offering to sell them. Lord Parker CJ said it did not make business sense for advertisements to be offers, as the person making the advertisement may find himself in a situation where he would be contractually obliged to sell more goods than he actually owned.\n\nIn certain circumstances called unilateral contracts, an advertisement can be an offer; as in \"Carlill v Carbolic Smoke Ball Company\" [1893] 1 QB 256, where it was held that the defendants, who advertised that they would pay £100 to anyone who sniffed a smoke ball in the prescribed manner and yet caught influenza, were contractually obliged to pay £100 to whomever accepted it by performing the required acts.\n\nA display of goods for sale in a shop window or within a shop is an invitation to treat, as in the \"Boots\" case, a leading case concerning supermarkets. The shop owner is thus not obliged to sell the goods, even if signage such as \"special offer\" accompanies the display. Also, in \"Fisher v Bell\" [1961] 1 QB 394, the display of a flick knife for sale in a shop did not contravene legislation which prohibited \"offering for sale an offensive weapon\". If a shop mistakenly displays an item for sale at a very low price it is not obliged to sell it for that amount.\nFor an offer to be capable of becoming binding on acceptance, the offer must be definite, clear, and objectively intended to be capable of acceptance.\n\nIn England, auctions are governed by the Sale of Goods Act 1979 (as amended). Section 57(2) provides: “A sale by auction is complete when the auctioneer announces its completion by the fall of the hammer, or in other customary manner. Until the announcement is made any bidder may retract his bid”. S. 57(3) provides further: “An auction sale may be subject to a reserve price”. However, if the auction is held \"without reserve\" then the auctioneer is obliged to sell to the highest bidder. It is implicit from \"Payne v Cave\" (1789), an early case concerning auctions, that each bid is deemed to expire when others make higher bids; but some auctioneers (such as eBay) have lawfully amended this presumption so that, should a higher bidder withdraw his bid, they may accept a lower one.\n\nThe tender process is a debated issue. In the case of \"Spencer v Harding\" the defendants offered to sell stock by tender, but the court held that there was no promise to sell to the highest bidder, merely an invitation for offers which they could then accept or reject at will. In \"exceptional\" circumstances an invitation for tenders may be an offer, as in \"Harvela Investments v Royal Trust of Canada\" [1986] where the court held that because defendants had made clear an intention to accept the highest tender, then the invitation to tender was an offer accepted by the person making the highest tender. The \"Harvela\" case also made it clear that \"referential bids\" are void as being \"contrary to public policy and not cricket\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "870407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870407", "title": "Justice minister", "text": "Justice minister\n\nA justice ministry, ministry of justice, or department of justice is a ministry or other government agency in charge of the administration of justice. The ministry or department is often headed by a minister of justice (called minister for justice in only very few countries) or secretary of justice. In countries where this agency is called a department (usually department of justice, sometimes attorney general's department) the head of the department is entitled \"attorney general\", for example in the United States. Monaco is an example of a country that does not have a ministry of justice, but rather a Directorate of Judicial Services (Secretary of Justice) that oversees the administration of justice. Vatican City, a country under the sovereignty of the Holy See, also does not possess a ministry of justice. The legislative body (which includes a legal office) is overseen by the President of the Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State. \n\nSpecific duties may relate to organizing the justice system, overseeing the public prosecutor and maintaining the legal system and public order. Some ministries have additional responsibilities in related policy areas overseeing elections, directing the police, law reform. The duties of the ministry of justice may in some countries be split from separate responsibilities of an attorney general (often responsible for the justice system) and the interior minister (often responsible for public order). Sometimes the prison system is separated into another government department called Corrective Services.\n\n† Based on available research, these are the countries, states or territories that have yet to appoint a female as the Minister of Justice, Attorney General or equivalent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41340", "title": "LPD433", "text": "LPD433\n\nLPD433 (low power device 433 MHz) is a UHF band in which licence free communication devices are allowed to operate in some regions. The frequencies correspond with the ITU region 1 ISM band of 433.050 MHz to 434.790 MHz, and operation is limited to CEPT countries. The frequencies used are within the 70-centimeter band, which is currently reserved for government and amateur radio operations in the United States and most nations worldwide.\n\nLPD hand-held radios are authorized for licence-free voice communications use in most of Europe using analog frequency modulation (FM) as part of short range device regulations, with 25 kHz channel spacing, for a total of 69 channels. In some countries, LPD devices may only be used with an integral and non-removable antenna with a maximum legal power output of 10 mW.\n\nVoice communication in the LPD band was introduced to reduce the burden on the eight (now sixteen) PMR446 channels over shorter ranges (less than 1 km) . In some EU countries voice is not allowed over LPD.\n\nLPD is also used by wireless instruments and digital devices such as car keylocks.\n\nITU Region 1 (Europe)\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nIn the UK, LPD433 equipment that meets the respective Ofcom Interface Requirement can be used for model control, analogue/digitised voice and remote keyless entry systems. There is significant scope for interference however, both on frequency and on adjacent frequencies, as the band is far from free. The frequencies from 430 to 440 MHz are allocated on a secondary basis to licensed radio amateurs who are allowed to use up to 40 W (16 dBW) between 430 and 432 MHz and 400 W (26 dBW) between 432 and 440 MHz. Channels 1 to 14 are UK amateur repeater outputs and channels 62 to 69 are UK amateur repeater inputs. This band is shared on a secondary basis for both licensed and licence exempt users, with the primary user being the Ministry of Defence.\n\nOfcom, together with the R.S.G.B. Emerging Technology Co-ordination Committee have produced guidelines to help mitigate the side effects of interference to an extent.\n\nOther European countries\n\nEuropean remote keyless entry systems often use the 433 MHz band, although, as in all of Europe, these frequencies are within the 70-centimeter band allocated to amateur radio, and interference results. In Germany, before the end of 2008, radio control enthusiasts were able to use frequencies from channel 03 through 67 on the above chart for radio control of any form of model (air or ground-based), all with odd channel numbers (03, 05, etc. up to ch. 67) as read on the chart, with each sanctioned frequency having 50 kHz of bandwidth separation between each adjacent channel.\n\nITU Region 2 (America)\n\nIn ITU region 2 (the Americas), the frequencies that LPD433 uses are also within the 70-centimeter band allocated to amateur radio. In the United States LPD433 radios can only be used under FCC amateur regulations by properly licensed amateur radio operators.\n\nITU Region 3\n\nMalaysia\n\nIn Malaysia, this band are also within the 70-centimeter band (430.000 – 440.000 MHz) allocated to amateur radio. Class B amateur radio holder are permitted to transmit up to 50 Watts PEP power level. There is no licence requirement for LPD as long as it complies with requirement regulated by Malaysian Communications And Multimedia Commission (MCMC). As regulated by MCMC in Technical Code for Short Range Devices, remote control and security device are allowed up to 50 mW ERP and up to 100 mW ERP for Short Range Communication (SRC) devices. RFID are allowed up to 100 mW EIRP.\n\n"}
{"id": "1218709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218709", "title": "List of law enforcement agencies in the United Kingdom, Crown dependencies and British Overseas Territories", "text": "List of law enforcement agencies in the United Kingdom, Crown dependencies and British Overseas Territories\n\nThere are a number of agencies that participate in law enforcement in the United Kingdom which can be grouped into three general types:\n\n\nThe majority of law enforcement in the United Kingdom is carried out by territorial police forces that police the general public and their activities. The other types of agencies are concerned with policing of more specific matters.\n\nOver the centuries there has been a wide variation in the number of police forces in the United Kingdom, with a large number now no longer in existence.\n\nExcept in Greater London, each territorial police force covers one or more of the local government areas (counties) established in the 1974 local government reorganisations (although with subsequent modifications), in an area known in statute as a police area. These forces provide the majority of policing services to the public of England and Wales. These forces have been known historically as \"Home Office police forces\" due to the Acts of Parliament that established them although use of that description was only correct for the Metropolitan Police and in that case ceased to be so when local control was transferred from the Home Office to the Metropolitan Police Authority. Despite the implication of the term, all police forces are independent, with operational control resting solely with the chief officer of each force (the Chief Constable or with regard to the Metropolitan Police and City of London Police forces, their respective Commissioners); each force was overseen by a Police authority until these were replaced by Police and Crime Commissioners in 2012.\n\nThe Police Act 1996 is the most recent piece of legislation, which outlines the areas of responsibility for the 43 territorial forces of England and Wales (found in Schedule 1 of the Act).\n\n\"Constable\" is the lowest rank in the police service, but all officers, whatever their rank are \"constables\" in terms of legal powers and jurisdiction. Police officers in territorial police forces in England and Wales derive their jurisdiction from Section 30 of the Police Act 1996. This section outlines that such officers have jurisdiction throughout England and Wales and also the adjacent United Kingdom waters. Special Constables, who are part-time, volunteer officers of these forces, used to have a more limited jurisdiction – limited solely to their own force areas and adjacent forces (collectively, their \"constablewick\"). Since 1 April 2007, however Special Constables of England & Wales have full police powers throughout those two countries. This means that, in contrast to the majority of countries, all UK volunteer police officers now have exactly the same powers as their full-time colleagues. There are a number of situations in which the jurisdiction of a constable extends to one of the other countries – see the main article for details.\nAs of March 2010 police numbers in England and Wales were:\n\n\nAs of March 2010 police numbers in England:\n\n\nAs of March 2010 police numbers in Wales were:\n\n\nMost police powers and functions have been inherited by the Scottish Government and Scottish Parliament from the Scottish Office. Areas for which legislative responsibility remains with the UK Government include national security, terrorism, firearms and drugs. The Police (Scotland) Act 1967, as amended, was the basis for the organisation and jurisdiction of the eight former territorial forces in Scotland that were formed in 1975. These forces covered one or more of the areas of the local government regions established in the 1975 local government reorganisation (and since abolished), with minor adjustments to align with the post-1996 council area borders. These forces provided the majority of police services to the public of Scotland, although Scottish police officers also have limited jurisdiction throughout the rest of the United Kingdom as required (See above comments under English and Welsh forces).\n\nIn 2011, the Scottish Government announced that it planned to amalgamate the eight territorial forces in Scotland, along with the Scottish Crime and Drug Enforcement Agency, into a single agency. The Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012, an Act of the Scottish Parliament, codified this amalgamation and brought about the new Police Service of Scotland (to be known as \"Police Scotland\"). The new force was established on 1 April 2013.\nIn 2017, plans were being debated in the Scottish Parliament to merge railway policing with Police Scotland.\n\nAs of December 2012, police numbers in Scotland were:\n\nCounty and borough based police forces were not formed in Ireland as they were in Great Britain, with instead a single Royal Irish Constabulary covering most of Ireland (the exceptions being the Dublin Metropolitan Police, which was responsible for policing in Dublin, and the Belfast Town Police force, which was replaced by the RIC in the 1880s). The Royal Ulster Constabulary was formed in 1922 after the establishment of the Irish Free State, and served until the reforms of the police under the terms established initially by the Good Friday Agreement of 1998 undertaken by the Patten Commission, which led to the renaming of the RUC in 2001. The Police (Northern Ireland) Act 2000 sets out the basis for the organisation and function of the police force in the province. Until 2010, police powers were not transferred to the devolved Northern Ireland Executive, unlike Scotland, instead remaining with the Northern Ireland Office. However, in January 2010 agreement was reached between the two largest parties in the Assembly, the DUP and Sinn Féin, over a course that would see them assume responsibility for policing and justice from April.\nAs of April 2007 police numbers in Northern Ireland were:\n\nCounty police forces traditionally bore the name \"constabulary\" upon their formation (as a derivation of \"constable\"). The reorganisation of police forces over the years has seen this name dropped in favour of \"police\" as a name, as many have decided that the word \"constabulary\" is confusing for people more used to searching for the word \"police\". However, a number of police forces in the areas overseen by the United Kingdom retain the name \"constabulary\":\n\nThese bodies operate in more than one county of the United Kingdom. The remit of some of the forces is further limited to the areas that they police, such as railway infrastructure. The Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 gave the British Transport Police and Ministry of Defence Police a limited, conditional authority to act outside of their primary jurisdiction if the situation requires urgent police action and the local force are not readily available, or if they believe that there is risk to life or limb, or where they are assisting the local force.\n\nAdditionally, the following three government agencies are defined in legislation as \"special police forces\". As these forces are responsible to specific areas of infrastructure, they do not answer to the Home Office, but instead to the government department responsible for the area they police. All three forces do voluntarily submit themselves to HMIC inspection:\n\n\n\nThese organisations are not police forces but do have similar powers to that of the police with the exception that they cannot arrest a person nor make forcible entry without a warrant.\n\nThe use of investigatory powers is controlled by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000. Up to 792 public authorities have powers that are restricted by RIPA.\n\nThese police forces generally come under the control of a local authority, public trusts or even private companies; examples include some ports police and the Mersey Tunnels Police. They could have been established by individual Acts of Parliament or under common law powers. Jurisdiction is generally limited to the relevant area of private property alone and in some cases (e.g. docks and harbours) the surrounding area. This, together with the small size of the police forces, means they are often reliant on the territorial force for the area under whose jurisdiction they fall to assist with any serious matter. The statutory responsibility for law and order sits with the territorial police forces even if there is a specialist police force in the locality. These police forces do not have independent Police Authorities and their founding statutes (if any) do not generally prescribe their structure and formation.\n\nThere are two types of port police in the United Kingdom — most are sworn in under the 1847 Act, but a few have Acts specific to their port.\n\nFor every port/harbour, an individual Act of Parliament (or, more recently, a Harbour (Revision) Order) can incorporate parts of the Harbours, Docks, and Piers Clauses Act 1847 (HDPCA) and apply them to that specific port/harbour. Officers of port police forces are sworn in as \"special constables\" under section 79 of the 1847 Act, as incorporated by the individual local Act. As a result, officers have the full powers of a constable on any land owned by the harbour, dock, or port and at any place within one mile of any owned land.\n\nThe Marine Navigation Act 2013 has potentially enabled ports contables in England & Wales to act as constables beyond this one mile limit, in relation to policing purposes connected with the port only, in a police area where consent has been obtained from the relevant Chief Constable. This act does not however give general police powers to ports constables beyond their core jurisdiction as set out in the 1847 act, merely in relation to policing purposes connected to the port as set out in the Act. As of 2014, 3 ports police forces (Dover, Teesport and Bristol) have sought and received consent from the local Chief Constable, with a fourth (Liverpool) in the process of applying for it. This has enabled these 3 ports forces to act as constables, in relation to policing purposes connected to the port, throughout the police area in which they are geographically located. There are 224 constables sworn in under the 1847 Act. Serious or major incidents or crime generally become the responsibility of the local territorial police force.\n\n\n\nThese small constabularies are responsible for policing specific land and parks. Officers of these forces have the powers of a constable within their limited jurisdiction. They are not \"constables\" as dealt with in the general Police Acts.\n\nThe Parks Regulation Act 1872 provides for the attestation of \"parks constables\".\n\nOver history, a number of local authorities outside London have maintained their own parks police forces, the most notable being Liverpool (Liverpool Parks Police) and Birmingham (Birmingham Parks Police). No local authority parks police forces currently exist outside London, although the legal powers for them to do so (granted by various local Acts of Parliament) survive in a limited number of cases.\n\nIn London, these constabularies are responsible for enforcing byelaws within the parks and open spaces of their respective local authorities. Members of the constabularies are sworn as constables under article 18 of the Greater London Parks and Open Spaces Order 1967. Members of the constabularies are constables only in relation to the enforcement of the parks byelaws (which, by definition, apply only in the parks).\n\n\nSome of these constables have (or have had) a shared role as security staff for their own local authority's buildings and housing estates with appropriate changes of badges and/or uniform being made when changing to/from park duties.\n\n\"See Also Cathedral Constables' Website\"\n\nCathedrals that have their own Constabularies consisting of attested constables that keep the peace at each Cathedral.\n\n\n\nEach branch of the military has its own police service, though the powers of a service police officer are identical and recipricol across all three services. The service police is made up of the:\n- including the Royal Marines Police\nIn the UK, the service police exercise jurisdiction over those serving in the military in any capacity and those civilians subject to service discipline as defined by the Armed Forces Act 2006. They are not 'constables' and do not have any policing powers in relation to the general public in normal circumstances. In British Forces Germany, under the Status Of Forces Act, military police have jurisdiction over British Forces personnel, their families, MOD contractors, and NAAFI staff.\n\nService Police are PACE trained and all investigations are PACE compliant. They make regular use of civilian police facilities often conducting joint investigations where necessary. The Service Police are able to investigate all crime within their jurisdiction, up to and including Murder, however within the UK, offences of murder and sudden deaths are passed to the local police force as per national jurisdiction agreements.\n\nWhilst operating in conflict zones the military police will conduct the full range of policing including murder investigations as evidenced by the Sgt Blackman investigation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are certain instances where police forces of other nations operate in a limited degree in the United Kingdom:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34147109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34147109", "title": "Litigation involving the Wikimedia Foundation", "text": "Litigation involving the Wikimedia Foundation\n\nThe Wikimedia Foundation has been involved in several lawsuits. Some of them have gone in favor of the Foundation, others have gone against it.\n\nIn May 2011, Louis Bacon obtained a court order against the Wikimedia Foundation to compel it to reveal the identity of the editors who defamed him on Wikipedia. However, the order was obtained in the UK, and is therefore unenforceable in the United States.\n\nBarbara Bauer, a literary agent, sued Wikimedia Foundation (which owns Wikipedia) for defamation. She claimed that a Wikipedia entry branded her the “dumbest” literary agent. But the case was dismissed because of the Communications Decency Act.\n\nProfessional golfer Fuzzy Zoeller, who also felt he was defamed on Wikipedia, did not sue Wikipedia because he was told that his suit would not prevail in light of the Communications Decency Act. He then sued the Miami firm from whose computers the edits were made, but later dropped the case.\n\nIn 2007, three French nationals sued the Wikimedia Foundation when an article on Wikipedia described them as gay activists. A French court dismissed the defamation and privacy case, ruling that the Foundation was not legally responsible for information in Wikipedia articles. The judge ruled that a 2004 French law limited the Foundation's liability, and found that the content had already been removed. He found that the Foundation was not legally required to check the information on Wikipedia, and that \"Web site hosts cannot be liable under civil law because of information stored on them if they do not in fact know of their illicit nature.\" He did not rule whether the information was defamatory.\n\nSylvia Scott Gibson, author of \"Latawnya, the Naughty Horse, Learns to Say \"No\" to Drugs\", sued Wikipedia for describing her book. Her suit was dismissed.\n\nJohn Seigenthaler, an American writer and journalist, contacted Wikipedia in 2005 after his article was edited to incorrectly state that he had been thought for a brief time to be involved in the assassinations of John Kennedy and Bobby Kennedy. The content was present in the article for four months. Seigenthaler called Wikipedia a \"flawed and irresponsible research tool,\" and criticized the protection the Communications Decency Act provided to Wikipedia.\n\nThe representative for the American Academy of Financial Management, George Mentz, suggested that either phony or incompetent Wikipedia editors were creating legal problems for Wikimedia in May 2013, because of alleged intentional false claims that had been published on Wikipedia.\n\nTexas Instruments sent a DMCA takedown notice to the Wikimedia Foundation because certain cryptographic keys were made public in the Texas Instruments signing key controversy article. A Wikipedia editor later filed a counter-notice, Texas Instruments did not reply in 10–14 business days as required by the DMCA, and the keys were restored to the article.\n\nTwo other articles also came under the purview of Wikipedia's office actions because of the DMCA: Damon Dash and Conventional PCI.\n\nIn July 2010, the FBI sent a letter to the Wikimedia Foundation demanding that it cease and desist from using its seal on Wikipedia. The FBI claimed that such practice was illegal and threatened to sue. In reply, Wikimedia counsel Michael Godwin sent a counter notice to the FBI claiming that Wikipedia was not in the wrong when it displayed the FBI seal on its website. He defended Wikipedia's actions and also refused to remove the seal.\n\nIn March 2015, the Wikimedia Foundation, along with other groups, sued the National Security Agency over its upstream mass surveillance program.\n\n"}
{"id": "35649001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35649001", "title": "Luis García San Miguel", "text": "Luis García San Miguel\n\nLuis García San Miguel (1929–2006) was a Spanish academic and jurist.\n"}
{"id": "56665665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56665665", "title": "Misrepresentation in Indian Law", "text": "Misrepresentation in Indian Law\n\nA concept of English law that has been adopted in India, a misrepresentation is an untrue or misleading statement of fact made during negotiations by one party to another, which then induces that other party into the contract. The misled party may normally rescind the contract, and sometimes may be awarded damages as well (or instead of rescission).\n\nIn India, the federal laws defines misrepresentation under \"Misconception Of Fact\". This is dealt with under the Indian Penal Code in Section 90, which states:\n\nConsent given firstly under fear of injury, and secondly under a misconception of fact, is not consent at all.\n\nThat is what is explained in the first part of Section 90. There are two grounds specified in Section 90 which are analogous to coercion and mistake of fact which are the familiar grounds that can vitiate a transaction under the jurisprudence of India and other countries. The factors set out in first part of Section 90 are from the point of view of the victim; the second part of Section 90 enacts the corresponding provision from the point of view of the accused. It envisages that the accused has knowledge of - or reason to believe that - the consent was given by the victim in consequence of fear of injury or misconception of fact. Thus the second part lays emphasis on the knowledge or reasonable belief of the person who obtains the tainted consent. The requirements of both parts should be cumulatively satisfied. In other words, the Court has to determine whether the person giving the consent has done so under fear or misconception of fact; the court should also be satisfied that the person doing the act (i.e. the alleged offender) is conscious of the fact or should have reason to think that but for the fear or misconception, the consent would not have been given. This is the scheme of Section 90 which is couched in negative terminology.\n\nMisrepresentation is one of several vitiating factors that can affect the validity of a contract. Other vitiating factors include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4842240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4842240", "title": "Name-dropping", "text": "Name-dropping\n\nName-dropping is the practice of naming or alluding to important people and institutions within a conversation, story, song, online identity, or other communication. The term often connotes an attempt to impress others; it is usually regarded negatively, and under certain circumstances may constitute a breach of professional ethics. When used as part of a logical argument it can be an example of the false authority fallacy.\n\nA 'shout-out' can be regarded as a type of name-dropping where someone's name, or a list of names, is spoken out in order to direct attention towards these groups or individuals, often as a means of expressing kudos or making a referral.\n\nName-dropping is used to position oneself within a social hierarchy. It is often used to create a sense of superiority by raising one's status. By implying (or directly asserting) a connection to people of high status, the name-dropper hopes to raise his or her own social status to a level closer to that of those whose names he or she has dropped, and thus elevate himself or herself above, or into, present company.\n\nName-dropping can also be used to identify people with a common bond. By indicating the names of people one knows, one makes known his or her social circle, providing an opportunity for others with similar connections to relate.\n\nAs a form of appeal to authority, name-dropping can be an important form of informal argumentation, as long as the name being dropped is of someone who is an expert on the subject of the argument and that person's views are accurately represented.\n\nUse of the first name may be effective, as in the case of \"Kingsley\" for Kingsley Amis.\n\nName-dropping is also sometimes used in works of fiction to place a story in a certain historical timeframe, or to imply the involvement of a historical figure in the action (for example, in a story set during World War II, mentioning Adolf Hitler or Winston Churchill). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32289301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32289301", "title": "National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v Minister of Home Affairs", "text": "National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v Minister of Home Affairs\n\nNational Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality and Others v Minister of Home Affairs and Others, [1999] ZACC 17, is a 1999 decision of the Constitutional Court of South Africa which extended to same-sex partners the same benefits granted to spouses in the issuing of immigration permits. It was the first Constitutional Court case to deal with the recognition of same-sex partnerships, and also the first case in which a South African court adopted the remedy of \"reading in\" to correct an unconstitutional law. The case is of particular importance in the areas of civil procedure, immigration, and constitutional law and litigation.\n\nIn the area of constitutional litigation, the court considered its powers where it has declared a law or provision to be inconsistent with the Constitution. It found that, where the constitutional invalidity resulted from an omission in the legislation, it was not possible to cure the defect by way of notional severance. The only logical equivalent of severance, the court determined, is \"reading in,\" which can be an appropriate form of relief under section 38 of the Constitution. Whether the court reads in or strikes out words from a challenged law, the focus should be on the appropriate remedy, not on the label used to arrive at the result.\n\nThe Aliens Control Act was the primary statute governing immigration law; it required that any foreigner who wanted to permanently move to South Africa obtain an immigration permit. Section 25(5) of the act authorized the Department of Home Affairs to issue an immigration permit to the spouse of a South African citizen or permanent resident, even if that spouse would not otherwise meet the requirements for such a permit. Section 28(2), meanwhile, allowed the Minister of Home Affairs to grant exemptions from the permit requirement in special circumstances.\n\nOn 27 April 1994 the Interim Constitution of South Africa, which contained a section prohibiting unfair discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, came into force; on 4 February 1997 it was replaced by the final Constitution of South Africa, which contained an identical provision. After 1994 the National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality (NGCLE) entered into negotiations with the Department of Home Affairs on various issues, including the recognition of same-sex relationships for immigration purposes. The negotiations were initially successful, and the department agreed to consider the foreign same-sex partners of South Africans for exemptions under section 28(2); at least thirteen such exemptions were granted during 1997. In January 1998, however, the department changed its policy, deciding that same-sex partners did not qualify for the \"special circumstances\" requirement.\n\nThe NCGLE, joined by six same-sex couples and the Commission for Gender Equality, asked the Cape Provincial Division of the High Court to declare section 25(5) of the Aliens Control Act to be invalid because it discriminated on the basis of sexual orientation and therefore violated the constitutional right to equality. The three-judge panel of the High Court handed down its decision in February 1999, ruling that the section was indeed unconstitutional. So that spouses were not immediately deprived of immigration benefits, the order was suspended for twelve months to allow Parliament to correct the unconstitutionality. The court ruled that, in the interim, \"special circumstances\" existed and that same-sex partners were to receive section 28(2) exemptions.\n\nThe government appealed the High Court's decision to the Constitutional Court; the Constitution also requires that any court order that declares an Act of Parliament to be unconstitutional be confirmed by the Constitutional Court.\n\nThe Constitutional Court heard oral argument on 17 August 1999, and its unanimous judgment was delivered on 2 December. The opinion was authored by Justice Lourens Ackermann.\n\nThe basis of the NCGLE's case was that providing immigration benefits to \"spouses\"necessarily opposite-sex couplesthat were not available to same-sex couples amounted to unfair discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Section 9(3) of the Constitution states that \"the state may not unfairly discriminate directly or indirectly against anyone on one or more grounds, including [...] sexual orientation.\" They also argued that it discriminated on the basis of marital status, also a prohibited ground under section 9(3).\n\nThe government argued that the case was not \"ripe\" for the court to hear, claiming that the committees responsible for approving immigration permits could interpret the word \"spouse\" to include same-sex partners and that the law would then not be discriminatory. The court disagreed, stating that \"spouse\" could not reasonably be extended to include unmarried partners; as same-sex marriages were not (at that time) legal or recognised in South African law, the law as written could not be interpreted to include same-sex partners. The government also argued that immigration policy was at the complete discretion of the government and that foreign nationals did not have the right to equality in immigration decisions. The court, without accepting the validity of this argument, dismissed it as irrelevant, stating that the rights of the South African partners were also affected by the government's policy.\n\nAddressing the discrimination directly, the government denied that it was based on sexual orientation, arguing that it was based on \"non-spousal\" grounds not protected by section 9(3). The court dismissed this argument, as well the government's alternative argument that gays and lesbians were free to marry partners of the opposite sex and thus obtain the benefits of marriage. Justice Ackermann described this second argument as \"a meaningless abstraction\". The court ruled that section 25(5) was indeed discriminatory on the overlapping grounds of sexual orientation and marital status. According to section 9(5) of the Constitution, discrimination on these grounds is presumed to be unfair unless it can be proved otherwise. Although unfairness was presumed, the court proceeded to examine the impact of the discrimination on gays and lesbians, noting that they were a vulnerable minority who had suffered from past disadvantage. In a passage repeatedly quoted in subsequent decisions on the rights of same-sex couples, Justice Ackermann describes \"the facts concerning gays and lesbians and their same-sex partnerships\":\n\nIn light of these facts, the court ruled that the discrimination had the effect of reinforcing harmful stereotypes about gays and lesbians.\n\nThe government's final argument was that the discrimination was fair because it served the public purpose of protecting the institution of marriage. This, too, was dismissed, with the court stating that there was no rational connection between denying benefits to same-sex couples and the protection of marriage. The court held that section 25(5) amounted to unfair discrimination and therefore infringed on the right to equality as well as the right to human dignity. Not finding any opposing interest that could justify these severe infringements, the court declared the section to be unconstitutional.\n\nThe High Court had remedied the unconstitutionality by declaring section 25(2) invalid, but suspending the declaration and providing interim relief for the affected couples. The Constitutional Court decided that, in cases where a law is unconstitutional because of an omission, the courts may apply the technique of \"reading in\" to insert words to extend the law. The court laid down certain conditions, requiring that the words to be read in can be precisely defined, and that they should not interfere too greatly with the intent of Parliament.\n\nAckermann was persuaded by the submission of Advocate Wim Trengove (counsel for the appellants) that, as far as deference to the Legislature was concerned, there was no difference, in principle, between the court's rendering a statutory provision constitutional by removing the offending part by actual or notional severance, and the court's doing the same thing by reading words into a statutory provision. In both cases, the parliamentary enactment, as expressed in a statutory provision, was being altered by the order of the court—in the one case by excision and in the other by addition.\n\n\"This chance difference,\" wrote Ackermann, \"cannot by itself establish a difference in principle.\" The only relevant enquiry, he held, was what the consequences of such an order were, and whether they constituted an unconstitutional intrusion into the domain of the Legislature. Any other conclusion would lead to what he described as\n\nthe absurdity that the granting of a remedy would depend on the fortuitous circumstance of the form in which the Legislature had chosen to enact the provision in question. A Legislature could, for example, extend certain benefits to life-partners generally and exclude same-sex life partners by way of express exception. In such case there would be no objection to declaring the exception invalid, where a Court was satisfied that such severance was, on application of whatever the appropriate test might be, constitutionally justified in relation to the Legislature. It would be absurd to deny the reading-in remedy, where it was equally constitutionally justified in relation to the Legislature, simply because of its form.\n\nThere was, Ackermann found, \"nothing in the Constitution to suggest that form must be placed above substance in a way that would result in so glaring an anomaly.\" He concluded, accordingly, that reading in, \"depending on all the circumstances,\" was an appropriate form of relief under section 38 of the Constitution. He quoted with approval the Canadian case of \"Knodel v British Columbia (Medical Services Commission)\": \"Whether a court 'reads in' or 'strikes out' words from a challenged law, the focus of the Court should be on the appropriate remedy in the circumstances and not on the label used to arrive at the result.\" The real question, according to Ackermann, was \"whether, in the circumstances of the present matter, reading in would be just and equitable and an appropriate remedy.\"\n\nIn this case, the words \"or partner, in a permanent same-sex life partnership,\" were inserted after the word \"spouse\". The court ruled that the order would not be retrospective, as partners whose applications for a permit had previously been denied were free to reapply in light of the new situation.\n\nIn 2002 the Aliens Control Act was replaced by a new Immigration Act, in which the word \"spouse\" was defined as including \"a person who is party to ... a permanent homosexual or heterosexual relationship which calls for cohabitation and mutual financial and emotional support, and is proven by a prescribed affidavit substantiated by a notarial contract.\"\n\nThe decision in \"National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v Minister of Home Affairs\" was followed by a series of judgments extending to same-sex couples other benefits of marriage, including adoption, medical and pension benefits, artificial insemination, and intestate inheritance. In December 2005 the Constitutional Court ruled in \"Minister of Home Affairs v Fourie\" that Parliament was required to extend marriage to same-sex couples, which it duly did with the passage of the Civil Union Act in November 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "429902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429902", "title": "Offshore radio", "text": "Offshore radio\n\nOffshore radio is radio broadcasting from ships or fixed maritime structures. Offshore broadcasters are usually unlicenced but transmissions are legal in international waters. This is in contrast to broadcasting without a licence on land or within a nation's territorial waters, which is usually unlawful.\n\nThe claimed first wireless broadcast of music \"and\" speech for the purpose of entertainment was transmitted from a Royal Navy craft, HMS \"Andromeda\", in 1907. The broadcast was organized by a Lieutenant Quentin Crauford using the callsign QFP while the ship was anchored off Chatham in the Thames Estuary, England.\n\nHowever, the majority of offshore broadcasters have been unlicenced stations using seaborne broadcasting as a means to circumvent national broadcasting regulations, for example the practice has been used by broadcasting organizations like the Voice of America as a means of circumventing national broadcasting regulations of other nations. Unlicenced offshore commercial stations have operated off the coasts of Belgium, Denmark, Israel, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Sweden, The United Kingdom, Yugoslavia and the United States.\n\nBy the late 1920s, the \"UK government concluded that radio was such a powerful means of mass communication that it would have to be in state control\", and gave the publicly-funded BBC a monopoly on broadcasting. Because of rigid governmental controls and programming mostly consisting of serious music and highbrow issues, much of the UK population began to turn to radio stations from abroad, such as Radio Lyon, Radio Normandy, Radio Athlone, Radio Mediterranee and Radio Luxembourg, especially on Sundays, when the BBC did not carry any entertainment programmes. However, English-speaking broadcast hours were limited and parts of the UK were unable to receive most stations properly during the daytime.\n\nThe earliest attempt to establish an offshore broadcaster in England occurred in 1928, when Associated Newspapers (owners of the \"Daily Mail\") acquired the yacht Ceto and installed radio equipment. Unfortunately, the apparatus could not operate properly overboard, the signal being heavily affected by the climate conditions. The transmitter was then replaced by Siemens loudspeakers and the Ceto toured England \"broadcasting\" gramophone records interspersed by advertising.\n\nUnauthorized offshore broadcasting stations operating from ships or fixed platforms in the coastal waters of the Northern Sea first appeared in 1958. There were as many as eleven such stations in the mid-1960s.\n\nOne of the most popular offshore radio broadcasts in Europe came from Radio Caroline, which developed out both of the strict broadcasting regulations in England in the 1960s as well as the fact the major labels had left little to no airtime to less established acts. The Radio Caroline name was used to broadcast from international waters, using five different ships of three different owners, from 1964 to 1990. Radio Caroline was the brainchild of Ronan O'Rahilly, who dreamed up a way to air music by \"unestablished\" rock and roll artists Other well-known stations of the period were Radio Atlanta, Radio London, Radio 270 (broadcasting of the coast of Filey, Yorkshire) Radio 390, Radio Scotland, Radio Northsea International and Radio City.\n\nMost offshore broadcast is usually associated with European unlicenced radio stations; the trend never caught on as much in the United States as most organizations that could afford an offshore broadcasting boat would instead buy a legal station. Still, there were a few American offshore stations that made a lasting impression. The first station to broadcast in the U.S. from international waters was RXKR off of the coast of California. and broadcast from May 1933 until August 1933. It was operated from a cargo carrier named the S.S. City of Panama, a ship that was actually supposed to be advertising tourism in Panama to Americans from California. The operators of the ship actually broadcast popular music and advertisements, fooling the Panamanian government and eventually being shut down at the request of the U.S. Department of State.\n\nUnlicenced \"Radio and TV Noordzee\" since August 1964 used REM island offshore platform for broadcasting aimed at the Netherlands. On December 12, 1964, a law, which split the North Sea into continental sections was passed in the Netherlands. The sea bed under REM Island, to which the structure was attached, was declared Dutch territory. Five days later, Royal Marines boarded the platform and ended the broadcasting.\n\nThe Council of Europe in 1965 passed the \"European Agreement for the Prevention of Broadcasts transmitted from Stations outside National Territories\" to address this loophole, although some member states were slow to implement this in national law.\n\nIn 1967, the UK Government enacted the Marine, &c., Broadcasting (Offences) Act 1967, outlawing advertising on or supplying an unlicensed offshore radio station from the UK. Several other European countries passed similar legislation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11486936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486936", "title": "Padayatra", "text": "Padayatra\n\nPadayatra (Sanskrit, lit. \"journey by foot\") is a journey undertaken by a politicians or prominent citizens to interact more closely with different parts of society, educate about issues concerning them, and galvanize his or her supporters. Pada Yatras or 'Foot pilgrimages' are also Hindu religious pilgrimages undertaken towards sacred shrines or pilgrimage sites.\n\nMahatma Gandhi originated the padayatra with his famous Salt March to Dandi in 1930. In the winter of 1933-34, Gandhi went on a countrywide padayatra against untouchability. Later, Gandhian Vinoba Bhave also started a padyatra, which was part of his Bhoodan movement in 1951. Starting from Telangana region, Bhave concluded his padayatra at Bodh Gaya. On 6 January 1983, Chandra Shekhar started his padayatra from Kanyakumari and continued his 4260 km journey to Raj Ghat in Delhi till 25 June 1983 to understand the problems of masses.\n\nRajagopal, PV, in Janadesh 2007 led 25,000 landless peasants on a 28-day march from Gwalior to Delhi.\nIn 1986, Ramon Magsaysay Award winner Rajendra Singh started padayatras through villages of Rajasthan, promoting construction and revival of johads and check dams.\n\nY. S. Rajasekhara Reddy, did a three-month-long padyatra covering 1475 kilometres, meeting people across several districts of Andhra Pradesh.He led his party to victory in the following general elections held in 2004 to become Chief Minister Of Andhra Pradesh, which included Telengana also.\n\nThe varkaris from the Maharashtra state of western India practice a regular walk to religious places like Dehu, Alandi and Pandharpur. Ashadhi Ekadashi , Kartiki Ekadashi, Maghi Ekadashi and Chaitra Ekadashi are some of the popular days when pilgrims reach Pandharpur to worship Vithoba. Mantralaya Paadayatra to worship saint shri Raghavendra Swamy and Shri Datta Paadayatra to worship lord Dattatreya & Murgod Paadayatra to shri shiva Chidambar swamy are famous from Dharwad city of Karnataka state(India).\n\n"}
{"id": "32371220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32371220", "title": "People's Court (Bavaria)", "text": "People's Court (Bavaria)\n\nThe People's Courts of Bavaria (') were ' (special courts) established by Kurt Eisner during the German Revolution in November 1918 and part of the that lasted until May 1924 after handing out more than 31,000 sentences. It was composed of two judges and three lay judges. One of its most notable trials was that of the Beer Hall Putsch conspirators, including Adolf Hitler, Erich Ludendorff, Wilhelm Frick, Friedrich Weber, and Ernst Röhm, which lasted from 26 February 1924 until 1 April 1924.\n\nInitially established in each court district by the Order of 16 November 1918 (') by the government of Kurt Eisner, it was furthered by the government of Johannes Hoffmann in the Law on the Establishment of People's Courts in Civil Disturbances of 12 July 1919 ('). An agreement between the federal government and the government of Bavaria had fixed the deadline for the abolition of the courts on 1 April 1924. In this form they remained until May 1924 after handing out more than 31,000 sentences. Initially intended as a short-term solution for events surrounding the German Revolution, they became seen as part of the .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48618841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48618841", "title": "Post Mart", "text": "Post Mart\n\nPost Mart is a joint-venture between China Post Group and U.S.-owned China Horizon Investments Group.\n\nPost Mart provides consumer goods to people in rural China using the existing China Post network of hundreds of thousands of village postal stations as well as a network of distribution centers.\n\nIn January 2016 China Horizon Investments sued China Post for fraud and breach of contract in relation to this venture.\n\nChina Horizon Investments Group was founded in January 2007 by Alan Clingman for the purpose of investing in the growth of Chinese domestic consumption projects alongside major Chinese entities, especially state-owned entities.\n\nChina Post is the official postal service of China. The State Post Bureau of the People's Republic of China, the owner of China Post, is both a regulatory authority and government-owned enterprise. Thus, it is responsible for the regulation of the national postal industry and the management of national postal enterprises. China Post also owns one of China’s largest banks, the EMS courier service, an insurance company and a large-scale distribution business.\n\nFollowing a multi-year pilot program, regulatory approvals for the China Horizon and China Post Joint Venture were granted in September 2015.\n\nThe scope of the joint venture is to build a modern distribution system for consumer products, expanding upon the extensive China Post network in order to bring a variety of safe, affordable and appropriate products (including a wide selection of Post Mart branded products) to rural China with the added ambition of improving the lives of rural citizens.\n\nThe joint venture has a registered capital of RMB 1 billion and has a license to use the China Post brand.\n\nPost Mart has established an efficient route to market sales and delivery system in Henan. It plans to roll this out nationally, reaching 10 provinces within five years. There are currently more than 50,000 village postal stations in Henan.\n\nPost Mart operates a loyalty program called the Post Mart Emerald Club.\n\nPost Mart provides a range of daily supply products such as cooking oil, rice, household goods, personal items and beverages such as Coca-Cola. Their brands include Chinese brands, international brands and its own brand.\n\n"}
{"id": "12101655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12101655", "title": "Prize crew", "text": "Prize crew\n\nA prize crew is the selected members of a ship chosen to take over the operations of a captured ship. Prize crews were required to take their prize to appropriate prize courts, which would determine whether the ship's officers and crew had sufficient cause to have the value of the prize awarded to them.\n\nIn the Age of Sail and up into the American Civil War, capturing enemy ships was quite common. As a result, warships optimistically carried extra crew members for use as prize crews. More recently, as evidenced by results of sea battles during World War I and World War II, ships generally were sunk, not captured. If, however, a ship is captured, a prize crew would be selected from the winning ship’s complement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5978142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5978142", "title": "Procedures of the Supreme Court of Canada", "text": "Procedures of the Supreme Court of Canada\n\nThe procedures of the Supreme Court of Canada for hearing cases is established in the \"Rules of the Supreme Court of Canada\", the Supreme Court Act, and by tradition.\n\nHearings of the Supreme Court take place exclusively in the Supreme Court building in Ottawa. The Court sits three times a year for three months at a time starting in January, April, and October. Every two weeks that the Court sits is followed by a two-week break making for a total of 18 weeks a year of hearings. The Mondays are often reserved for hearing motions regarding ongoing appeals. The remaining days of the week the Court is used for hearings. The Court will hear one or two cases a day beginning at 9:30 a.m.\n\nQuorum of the Court requires five Justices, but most cases are heard by a panel of seven or nine Justices. The Chief Justice presides over each hearing. If the Chief Justice is not available, the senior puisne justice on the panel will preside.\n\nHearings are live-streamed through the Court's website. They are also video recorded for delayed telecast in both of Canada's official languages and are often aired on CPAC. The Court's hearings are open to the public except for certain sensitive cases where a sealing order is enacted. There are three rows of benches reserved for public seating, which are generally taken on a first-come, first-served basis except where it is reserved by counsel or parties in the appeal.\n\nInitially, all civil and criminal cases had the right to appeal to the Supreme Court. An amendment to the \"Supreme Court Act\" in 1975 required that parties wishing to appeal must apply for \"leave to appeal\". The only exception is a select type of more serious criminal cases where there continues to an appeal \"as of right\", as well as appeals from reference questions submitted to the provincial courts of appeal by the provincial governments. The federal government also has the power to pose a reference to the Court on its own motion, as an original proceeding, without requiring leave from the Court.\n\nLeave applications are considered by the justices in groups of three. Only cases which raise questions of public importance are granted. The reasons for their decisions on leave applications are not given.\n\nOn the bench, the Chief Justice of Canada (or the senior puisne justice) presides from the centre chair with the other justices seated to the right and left of the Chief Justice by order of seniority of appointment. At sittings of the Court, the justices usually appear in black silk robes but they wear their ceremonial robes of bright scarlet trimmed with Canadian white mink in court on special occasions and in the Senate at the opening of each new session of Parliament.\n\nHistorically, they were addressed as \"My Lord/Lady\" during sessions of the court, but the Court has indicated that it prefers that the judges be addressed as \"Justice\", \"Mr Justice\" or \"Madam Justice\".\n\nEach side is given one hour to make their submissions. Where there are multiple claimants or defendants they are required to split the time among them. However, in exceptional circumstances the parties may apply to the Court to have their time extended. Interveners are typically granted ten minutes to make their arguments.\n\nOccasionally, the Court may give judgment from the bench, either dismissing or allowing the appeal on the spot. The Court may give short reasons explaining its decision at that time, or it may announce the outcome of the case, with reasons to follow.\n\nThe more common practice is that once the hearing is complete, the judges convene immediately in their conference room behind the court room to discuss the case. They sit at a round table in the conference room and each judge gives their opinion of the case, starting with the least senior judge. Typically, once the discussion is complete the justices make a tentative decision of the case, and in most cases a decision will be arrived at by the end the day. Retired Justice Binnie has coined the term the \"sundown rule\" for this practice. \n\nThis practice was begun by Chief Justice Cartwright in the 1960s. It was intended to reduce the number of separate reasons that the court was generating at the time and to maintain relations among the judges.\n\nExcept where the reasons are announced orally at the hearing, the Court normally reserves its decision. While the case is on reserve, the judges spend a considerable amount of time producing detailed written reasons for judgment. That process may take several months, or over a year. There is normally a majority decision, but judges who disagree with the majority can write a minority opinion, dissenting in whole or in part from the majority. Any judge can write a concurring opinion, agreeing with either the majority or the minority, or setting out the judge's own separate position. While the reasons for judgment are being developed, the may be rewritten several times. There may be a significant amount of continued debate over how the propositions should be articulated and what should be left out. In the more divided cases, there is a possibility that a judge may switch sides during the process and change the outcome of the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "1656735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1656735", "title": "Provost (civil)", "text": "Provost (civil)\n\nA provost (introduced into Scots from French) is the ceremonial head of many Scottish local authorities, and under the name prévôt () was a governmental position of varying importance in Ancien Régime France.\n\nAs a secular title, \"praepositus\" is also very old, dating to the \"praepositus sacri cubiculi\" of the late Roman Empire, and the \"praepositus palatii\" of the Carolingian court. The title developed in France from where it found its way into Scots, where in Scotland it became the style (as \"provost\") of the principal magistrates of the Royal Burghs (roughly speaking, the equivalent of \"mayor\" in the rest of the UK) (\"Lord Provost\" in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen and Dundee), and into England, where it is applied to certain officers charged with the maintenance of military discipline. A Provost Marshal is an officer of the army originally appointed when troops are on service abroad (and now in the United Kingdom as well) for the prompt repression of all offenses. He may at any time arrest and detain for trial persons subject to military law committing offences, and may also carry into execution any punishments to be inflicted in pursuance of a court martial (Army Act 1881, § 74). A provost sergeant is in charge of the garrison police or regimental police. The 'Provost' also refers to the military police in general. The British Army pronunciation is 'Prov-oh', though the U.S. Army pronunciation is 'Pro-vost' as written.\n\nHistorically the provost was the chief magistrate or convener of a Scottish burgh council, the equivalent of a mayor in other parts of the English-speaking world. Previous to the enactment of the Town Councils (Scotland) Act 1900 various titles were used in different burghs, but the legislation standardised the name of the governing body as “the provost, magistrates, and councillors” of the burgh. After the re-organisation of local government in Scotland in 1975, the title of Lord Provost was reserved to Aberdeen, Dundee, Edinburgh and Glasgow, while other district councils could choose the title to be used by the convener; in 1994 twenty-two councils had provosts. Similar provisions were included in the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994 which established unitary council areas in 1996. The area councils are allowed to adopt the title of provost (or any other) for the convener of the council, as are the area committees of the council. Some community councils which include former burghs also use the style for their chairmen.\n\nIn the Cadfael series of historical detective novels by Ellis Peters, taking place at 12th Century Shrewsbury, England, an important role is played by the town's Provost - who in addition to this position is a prominent shoemaker.\n\nThe Provost plays an important role in William Shakespeare's \"Measure for Measure\". He is promoted at the end of the play.\n\n"}
{"id": "25762841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25762841", "title": "R v Stephens", "text": "R v Stephens\n\nR v Stephens (1866) LR 1 QB 702 is an English criminal law, land law and UK public law case decided by the Queen's Bench that applied a strict liability standard to the violation of a criminal statute prohibiting the dumping of refuse into a river. \n\nThe defendant owned a quarry where refuse was dumped into a nearby river. The owner claimed he had no knowledge of the dumping and so should not be liable.\n\nThe defendant quarry owner was held criminally liable even though he had no knowledge of the dumping.\n"}
{"id": "1872891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1872891", "title": "Revolutionary Vanguard (Politico-Military)", "text": "Revolutionary Vanguard (Politico-Military)\n\nRevolutionary Vanguard (Politico-Military) (in Spanish: \"Vanguardia Revolucionaria (Político-Militar)\") was a militant Peruvian left group, and a splinter group of Revolutionary Vanguard (VR).\n"}
{"id": "4211091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4211091", "title": "Seafarers' Annual Leave with Pay Convention, 1976", "text": "Seafarers' Annual Leave with Pay Convention, 1976\n\nSeafarers' Annual Leave with Pay Convention, 1976 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1976, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to revision of the Paid Vacations (Seafarers) Convention (Revised), 1949 (No. 91), in the light of, but not necessarily restricted to, the Holidays with Pay Convention (Revised), 1970 (No. 132), ...\n\nThe convention revised Convention C91, Paid Vacations (Seafarers) Convention (Revised), 1949 (shelved).\n\nAs of 2013, the convention had been ratified by 17 states. Subsequently, eight of the ratifying states have denounced the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "5410193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5410193", "title": "Shangri-La Dialogue", "text": "Shangri-La Dialogue\n\nThe IISS Asia Security Summit: The Shangri-La Dialogue (SLD) is a \"Track One\" inter-governmental security forum held annually by an independent think tank, the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS) which is attended by defense ministers, permanent heads of ministries and military chiefs of 28 Asia-Pacific states. The forum gets its name from the Shangri-La Hotel in Singapore where it has been held since 2002.\n\nThe summit serves to cultivate a sense of community among the most important policymakers in the defence and security community in the region. Government delegations have made the best out of the meeting by holding bilateral meetings with other delegations on the sidelines of the conference. While primarily an inter-governmental meeting, the summit is also attended by legislators, academic experts, distinguished journalists and business delegates.\n\nThe participants have included Australia, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, Canada, Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Japan, Laos, Malaysia, Mongolia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines, Russia, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Sweden, Thailand, East Timor, United Kingdom, United States and Vietnam.\n\nPrior to the first summit, Asia lacked a regional security framework like Europe. Earlier in 1996, US Defence Secretary William Perry and Thai Defence Minister Chavalit Yongchaiyudh each proposed separate initiatives to gather their counterparts in Asia but came to nothing. The only Track One multilateral Asian security forum was the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF), which was found to be unwieldy since it focused on confidence-building and at worst, little more than a talkshop. In addition, the ARF was led by foreign ministers, leaving defence diplomacy and security cooperation in the region somewhat in want for a mechanism for defence ministers to interact.\n\nThe Shangri-La Dialogue was conceived by the current IISS Director-General and Chief Executive Sir John Chipman in 2001 in response to the clear need for a forum where the Asia Pacific defence ministers could engage in dialogue aimed at building confidence and fostering practical security cooperation. During the 36th Munich Conference on Security Policy, Chipman 'noticed Asian officials receiving short shrift' and realised that 'Asia needed its own defence institution at which defence ministers met and spoke'.\n\nInitially the SLD was modelled after the Munich Conference on Security Policy but with greater ambition - to create a Track One organization that \"defence ministers needed if they were to have any chance at all of meeting multilaterally in a transregional format\". Invitations were essentially focused on the members of the ASEAN Regional Forum in order to serve as a true regional security institution. Singapore was chosen as the location for the initial conference and with the Shangri-La Hotel as the venue. Chipman approached Singapore President S.R. Nathan in February 2001 to propose the idea and Nathan offered to provide IDSS support until the IISS could run the conference independently. The idea was brought forward to the Singapore Cabinet and was approved to be supported by the Ministry of Defence.\n\nInitiated in 2002, it was an \"unofficial defence summit'\" which allowed defence officials to meet \"privately and in confidence, bilaterally and multilaterally, without the obligation to produce a formal statement or communique\". About a dozen deputy ministers and ministerial representatives attended the inaugural summit (then known as the Asia Security Conference), including a US delegation led by US Deputy Defence Secretary Paul Wolfowitz. The first summit was organized in six plenary sessions lasting for one and a half days.\n\nIn 2003, the second summit expanded its invitation list to include chiefs of defence staff, and permanent or under secretaries of defence ministries. The agenda this year was organized around five plenary sessions supplemented by two simultaneous off-the-record 'break-out groups'.\n\nIn 2004, the invitation list was again further expanded to include participating countries' most senior intelligence and the police and national security officials of some countries. The number of break-out groups was increased to three. The IISS Asia office was opened this year, which allowed IISS to organize the summit completely independently.\n\nIn 2005, Pakistan was represented for the first time.\n\nIn 2006, the number of delegations had risen to 23 countries, with 17 being led by their respective defence ministers, and another 3 by deputy defence ministers or equivalent.\n\nThe 2007 iteration of the Shangri-La Dialogue was a landmark meeting as it attracted top-level participation from China. The Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the People's Liberation Army (with the status of Vice-Minister) Lieutenant-General Zhang Qinsheng, led Beijing's delegation that year. Subsequently, in 2008, Vietnam and Myanmar elevated their representation to deputy minister level. Then in 2009, Vietnam was represented at full ministerial status with General Phung Quang Thanh leading its delegation.\n\nIn 2008, Laos was represented for the first time. Notably despite the natural disasters in their respective countries, Myanmar and China were both led by high-level officers, Deputy Minister of Defence, Major-General Aye Myint for Myanmar and Deputy Chief of the General Staff, Lieutenant-General Ma Xiaotian for China. The number of plenary sessions increased from five to six, while the number of break-out groups increased from three to six.\n\nIn 2009, Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd was the first head of government other than Singapore to address the summit's opening dinner. It is also known that Singapore and Australia signed a memorandum of agreement on the sidelines of the 2009 summit allowing Singapore's armed forces access to Australian training facilities for a further decade.\n\nIn the 2010 summit, The President of the Republic of Korea, Lee Myung-Bak, was the first head of state to make the keynote speech at the summit. Other notable delegations include the Russian delegation, led by Deputy Prime Minister (and former defence minister) Sergei Ivanov, and the Chilean delegation, led by Minister of Defence . Despite Japanese Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama's resignation the day before the SLD, his successor, Prime Minister Naoto Kan, ensured that Minister of Defense Toshimi Kitazawa could attend and speak in a plenary session at the SLD. US Defence Secretary Robert Gates made his fourth SLD appearance and China's Lieutenant-General Ma Xiaotian, Deputy Chief of the General Staff led a strong delegation from China's People's Liberation Army.\n\nIn June 2011, there was a marked shift in the debate towards non-traditional security issues as well as on the South China Sea. Malaysian Prime Minister Najib in his keynote address mentioned new multilaterism to deal with security challenges to the region includes people smuggling, drug trafficking, terrorism and nuclear proliferation. China was represented at the summit for the first time at full ministerial level. Chinese Defence Minister General Liang Guanglie indicated China's peaceful rise in the region and willingness to work with neighbouring countries to resolve competing claims to disputed territorial claims in the South China Sea.\n\nThe United States reiterated its commitment to the Asia Pacific region despite having budgetary constraints, wars and a waning domestic economy. Outgoing US defence secretary Robert Gates said he will bet anyone $100 that in the next five years US influence will be strong if not stronger than today. The United States has always been seen as the preeminent power in the pacific rim and now has to accommodate an emerging China to help maintain stability and security in the region.\n\n2018: The IISS convened the 17th Asia Security Summit: The IISS Shangri-La Dialogue, from 1-3 June 2018in Singapore.\n2017: The IISS convened the 16th Asia Security Summit: The IISS Shangri-La Dialogue, from 2-4 June 2017 in Singapore.\n\nEach summit typically is opened by a keynote address, historically given by a prominent Singaporean figure. Beginning in 2009, a head of state or head of government has delivered the keynote address. Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd in 2009, the President of the Republic of Korea Lee Myung-Bak in 2010, and Malaysian Prime Minister Dato' Sri Najib Tun Razak in 2011 respectively delivered the opening speech. Five plenary sessions are held across the remaining two days of the summit where all participants are expected to be present. These on-record sessions are usually led by a minister only and the press are invited to report on them. By 2006, plenary speaking slots are allocated only to ministers from a delegation.\n\nIntroduced by the second summit in 2003, break-out groups are held concurrently with each other and allow more open discussion between participants on specific issues. These sessions also ensure that sufficient time is available during the summit for ministers to hold bilateral meetings. The break-out groups are strictly off-the-record so that officials could advance policy goals more freely. The break-out groups are usually chaired by a senior IISS staff member. By 2006, break-out group speaking slots are allocated only to ministers or senior officials from a delegation.\n\nWhile largely unpublicised, the Shangri-La Dialogues provide an annual venue for ministers, CHODs, and top defence officials to network and expand their defence diplomacy in private, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Rooms are reserved for the meetings to take place during breaks. A government delegation might typically arrange 15-20 such encounters, lasting half an hour each, over the course of the summit. Singapore's defence minister usually also hosts multilateral private lunches.\n\nThe summit has been consistently attended by a mix of 200-plus non-government delegates, which include politicians, academics, businessmen, think tank analysts, media and other NGO personnel. This has given the SLD an aspect of a Track Two process, even though it is primarily a Track One event. Taylor notes that there are limited opportunities for interaction between non-government and government representatives. The inclusion of non-government delegates is the result of dynamic efforts being made so that the SLD does not become an \"exclusive club\".\n\nShangri-La has contributed to the enhancement of defence diplomacy by participating countries, in part by inspiring similar forums in other regions (e.g. the Halifax International Security Forum).\n\nThe 2010 Chinese Defence White paper explicitly mentioned senior Chinese participation in Shangri-La Dialogue since 2007 as one of their forums of participation in regional security cooperation. The IISS thinks that China's increased representation shows their eagerness to increase their engagement on a multilateral level and a recognition that the PLA wants to soften its image after a series of steps that were seen as too aggressive resulted in a downturn in relations with its neighbors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54188462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54188462", "title": "Simap.ch", "text": "Simap.ch\n\nsimap.ch is the official gazette for government procurement publications in Switzerland. It is published online by an association established jointly by the Swiss Confederation and the cantons of Switzerland. The name is an acronym for \"système d'information sur les marchés publics en Suisse\", \"information system on government procurement in Switzerland\".\n\nNotices published on simap.ch include requests for tender, requests for information, and contract awards by Swiss federal, cantonal and municipal authorities and public enterprises as provided for by law. Most notices are also republished in the European Union's \"Tenders Electronic Daily\", based on agreements between Switzerland and the EU.\n\nBy 2019, simap.ch is set to be renewed based on e-procurement software by European Dynamics. In this form, simap.ch is intended to allow public authorities in Switzerland to conduct procurement procedures entirely on a digital basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "36993378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36993378", "title": "Southern South American Migratory Grassland Bird Species Memorandum of Understanding", "text": "Southern South American Migratory Grassland Bird Species Memorandum of Understanding\n\nThe Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the Conservation of Southern South American Migratory Grassland Bird Species and Their Habitats is a Multilateral Environmental Memorandum of Understanding concluded under the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS), also known as the Bonn Convention and became effective on 26 August 2007. Under the “umbrella” of the CMS, the governments of Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay agreed to work together towards better conservation of migratory species of grassland birds of Southern South America. The MoU covers five range States (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay), all of which have signed. \n\nThe Eight Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to CMS adopted a recommendation calling on range States, regardless of whether they were Parties to CMS, to develop a MoU to help conserve the endangered grassland bird species of South America and the habitats upon which they depend. The governments of Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay therefore agreed to work together towards better conservation of migratory species of grassland birds and developed the MoU text. Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay signed the MoU on 26 August 2007. Brazil, although not a Party to CMS, signed the next day. Bolivia was the last of the range States to sign the MoU on 23 September 2009.\n\nSignatories to the Southern South American Migratory Grassland Bird Species MoU:\n\nIn addition, the CMS Secretariat also signed the MoU (26 August 2007).\n\nThe grasslands of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay in southern South America represent important habitat to numerous migratory bird species. These birds play vital roles in the ecosystem by dispersing seeds and controlling insect populations. According to the IUCN the global conservation status of many South American grassland species is alarming. The fragmentation, degradation and loss of grassland ecosystems by human activities are key threats to the species populations. These important habitats are being placed at risk by unsustainable agricultural activities, pollution from pesticides and other agrochemicals, conversion to pasture land for cattle, and the transformation of natural grassland into eucalyptus and pine plantations for paper production. The MoU aims to conserve the remaining populations by coordinated and concerted actions in the range States.\n\nThe MoU protects the following migratory grassland birds of southern South America:\n\nConcerned that the populations of several species of migratory birds inhabiting the grasslands of southern South America have been subject to a drastic reduction and fragmentation of their habitats and have a delicate state of conservation, the Signatories decide to work together to improve the conservation status of the species throughout their breeding and wintering ranges. To this end, they will:\n\nThe MoU came into effect following the third Signature (26 August 2007) and will remain in effect indefinitely subject to the right of any Signatory to terminate its participation by providing one year’s written notice to all other Signatories.\n\nMeetings of Signatories are organized on a regular basis to review the conservation status of the species and the implementation of the MoU and Action Plan.\n\nThe First Meeting of Signatories took place in Asunción, Paraguay, 15 December 2010, with funding and logistical support from Asociación Guyra Paraguay, the national Partner of BirdLife International. During the meeting an Action Plan was adopted and annexed to the MoU. Furthermore, the meeting approved a list of priority activities as recommended by the Technical Meeting. At the meeting a joint offer by BirdLife International and Guyra Paraguay to provide coordination services for the MoU in the future, was accepted.\n\nThe CMS Secretariat – located in Bonn, Germany – acts as the secretariat to the MoU. \n\nThe First Meeting of Signatories adopted an Action Plan which was added as an Annex to the MoU. The Plan had been drafted at a workshop in Paraguay in September 2010 and finalized at a Technical Meeting immediately prior to the Meeting of the Signatories. The text of the MoU states that the Action Plan should include measures to promote coordination of conservation actions, international cooperation, improving the knowledge on these species, management, research, awareness and the exchange of information among the Signatories. The Action Plan focuses on the identification of new protected areas to create a network of habitats, in addition, it recommends actions to be taken outside of protected areas to help conserve habitat on private lands. \n\n"}
{"id": "789786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789786", "title": "Statelessness", "text": "Statelessness\n\nIn international law, a stateless person is someone who is \"not considered as a national by any state under the operation of its law\". Some stateless persons are also refugees. However, not all refugees are stateless, and many persons who are stateless have never crossed an international border. It is estimated over 10 million people worldwide are stateless. On 13 November, 2018, Filippo Grandi, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said there are about 12 million stateless people in the world. \n\nConflicting nationality laws are one of many causes of statelessness. Nationality is usually acquired through one of two modes, although many nations recognize both modes today: \n\nA person who does not have either parent eligible to pass citizenship by \"jus sanguinis\" can be stateless at birth if born in a state which does not recognize \"jus soli\". For instance, a child born outside Canada to two Canadian parents, who were also born outside Canada to Canadian parents, would not be a Canadian citizen, since \"jus sanguinis\" is only recognized for the first generation in Canada. If the child were born in India and neither parent had Indian citizenship, then the child would be stateless since India only confers citizenship to children born to at least one Indian parent.\n\nAlthough many states allow the acquisition of nationality through parental descent irrespective of where the child is born, some do not allow female citizens to confer nationality to their children. There are 27 countries in the world that do not grant equal rights to women in passing on their nationality. This can result in statelessness when the father is stateless, unknown, or otherwise unable to confer nationality. There have been recent changes in favor of gender neutrality in nationality laws, including reform processes in Algeria, Morocco, and Senegal that may inform change elsewhere. For example, Algeria amended its nationality code to repeal the limitations on mothers’ ability to confer nationality on their children, replacing them with an overarching provision granting Algerian nationality to all children born in or outside Algeria to an Algerian mother or father. Moreover, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women prohibits sex-based discrimination in the conferral of nationality.\n\nAn important measure to prevent statelessness at birth provides nationality to children born in a territory who would otherwise be stateless. This norm is stipulated in the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness; appears in several regional human rights treaties, including the American Convention on Human Rights, the European Convention on Nationality, and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child; and is implicit in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nIn most large-scale statelessness situations, statelessness is a result of discrimination. Many states (Latvia being a notable example) define their body of citizens based on ethnicity, leading to the exclusion of large groups. This violates international laws against discrimination. The United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination stated on 1 October 2014 that the \"deprivation of citizenship on the basis of race, colour, descent, or national or ethnic origin is a breach of States’ obligations to ensure non-discriminatory enjoyment of the right to nationality\".\n\nIn some cases, statelessness is a consequence of state succession. Some people become stateless when their state of nationality ceases to exist, or when the territory on which they live comes under the control of another state. This was the case when the Soviet Union disintegrated, and also in the cases of Yugoslavia and Ethiopia.\n\nPeople may also become stateless as a result of administrative and practical problems, especially when they are from a group whose nationality is questioned. Individuals might be entitled to citizenship but unable to undertake the necessary procedural steps. They may be required to pay excessive fees for documentation proving nationality, to provide documentation that is not available to them, or to meet unrealistic deadlines; or they may face geographic or literacy barriers.\n\nIn disruptive conflict or post-conflict situations, many people find that difficulties in completing simple administrative procedures are exacerbated. Such obstacles may affect the ability of individuals to complete procedures such as birth registration, fundamental to the prevention of statelessness in children. Whilst birth registration alone does not confer citizenship on a child, the documentation of place of birth and parentage is instrumental in proving the link between an individual and a state for the acquisition of nationality. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) estimated in 2013 that 230 million children under the age of 5 have not been registered.\n\nNot holding proof of nationality—being \"undocumented\"—is not the same as being stateless, but the lack of identity documents such as a birth certificate can lead to statelessness. Many millions of people live their entire lives without documents, without their nationality ever being questioned.\n\nTwo factors are of particular importance: \nIf nationality is acquired automatically, the person is a national regardless of documentation status (although in practice, the person may face problems accessing certain rights and services because he or she is undocumented, not because he or she is stateless). If registration is required, then the person is not a national until that process has been completed.\n\nAs a practical matter, the longer a person is undocumented, the greater the likelihood that he or she will end up in a situation where no state recognizes him or her as a national.\n\nIn rare cases, individuals may become stateless upon renouncing their citizenship (e.g., \"world citizen\" Garry Davis and, from 1896 to 1901, Albert Einstein, who, in January 1896, at the age of 16, was released from his Württemberg citizenship after, with his father's help, filing a petition to that effect; in February 1901 his application for Swiss citizenship was accepted). People who subscribe to Voluntaryist, Agorist, or some other philosophical, political, or religious beliefs may desire or seek statelessness. Many states do not allow citizens to renounce their nationality unless they acquire another. However, consular officials are unlikely to be familiar with the citizenship laws of all countries, so there may still be situations where renunciation leads to effective statelessness.\n\nA final cause of statelessness is non-state territories. As per the definition of a stateless person, only states can have nationals. As a result, people who are \"citizens\" of non-state territories are stateless. This includes, for instance, residents of occupied territories where statehood has ceased to exist or never emerged in the first place. The Palestinian territories are the most prominent example. Others are Western Sahara and Northern Cyprus (depending on the interpretation of what constitutes statehood and sovereignty). An example not involving military occupation is American Samoa.\n\nWhile statelessness has existed for several centuries, the international community has only been concerned with its eradication since the middle of the 20th century. In 1954, the United Nations adopted the Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons, which provides a framework for the protection of the stateless. Seven years later, the United Nations adopted the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. In addition, a range of regional and international human rights treaties guarantee a right to nationality, with special protections for certain groups, including stateless persons.\n\nStates bound by the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child are obligated to ensure that every child acquires a nationality. The convention requires states to implement this provision in particular where the child would otherwise be stateless, and in a manner that is in the best interests of the child.\n\nThe status of a person who might be stateless ultimately depends on the viewpoint of the state with respect to the individual or a group of people. In some cases, the state makes its view clear and explicit; in others, its viewpoint is harder to discern. In those cases, one may need to rely on \"prima facie\" evidence of the view of the state, which in turn may give rise to a presumption of statelessness.\n\nThe status of slaves and inhabitants of conquered territories in the Greco-Roman world of antiquity is in some ways analogous to contemporary statelessness. In antiquity, \"statelessness\" affected captive and subject populations denied full citizenship, including those enslaved (e.g., conquered populations excluded from Roman citizenship, such as the Gauls immediately following the Gallic Wars, or the Israelites under Babylonian captivity).\n\nSome characteristics of statelessness could be observed among apostates and slaves in Islamic society (the former shunned for rejecting their religious birth identity, the latter having been separated from that identity and subsumed into an underclass). Statelessness also used to characterize the Romani people, whose traditional nomadic lifestyles meant that they traveled across lands claimed by others.\n\nThe Nansen International Office for Refugees was an international organization of the League of Nations in charge of refugees from 1930 to 1939. It received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1938. Nansen passports, designed in 1922 by founder Fridtjof Nansen, were internationally recognized identity cards issued to stateless refugees. In 1942, they were honored by governments in 52 countries.\n\nMany Jews became stateless before and during the Holocaust, because the Nuremberg laws stripped them of their German citizenship.\n\nThe United Nations (UN) was set up in 1945, immediately after the end of World War II. From its inception, the UN had to deal with the mass atrocities of the war, including the huge refugee populations across Europe. To address the nationality and legal status of these refugees, the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) requested that the UN Secretary-General carry out a study of statelessness in 1948.\n\nIn 1948, the Universal Declaration on Human Rights (UDHR) was adopted. It provided both a right to asylum (Article 14) and a right to nationality (Article 15). The declaration also expressly prohibited arbitrary deprivation of nationality, which had affected many of the wartime refugees.\n\nIn 1949, the International Law Commission put \"Nationality, including statelessness\", on its list of topics of international law provisionally selected for codification. In 1950, at the behest of ECOSOC, that item was given priority, and ECOSOC appointed an ad hoc Committee on Refugees and Stateless People to draft a convention. A treaty on refugees was prepared with a draft protocol addressing the status of stateless persons.\n\nThe Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees was adopted on 28 July 1951. As of January 2005, it had attracted the signatures of 145 state parties. Since the International Refugee Organization—the predecessor to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)—was in the process of being dissolved, the convention was adopted without the protocol addressing statelessness.\n\nThe International Law Commission, at its fifth session in 1953, produced both a Draft Convention on the Elimination of Future Statelessness and a Draft Convention on the Reduction of Future Statelessness. ECOSOC approved both drafts. In 1954, the UN adopted the Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons. This convention provided a definition of a stateless person (which has since become part of customary international law, according to the International Law Commission) and set out a number of rights that stateless persons should enjoy. The convention thus became the basis for an international protection regime for stateless persons. However, in order to ensure that the rights enumerated in the convention are protected, states need to be able to identify stateless individuals.\n\nSeven years later, in 1961—only one year after the 1954 convention entered into force—the UN adopted the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness.\n\nIn 2014, following a series of expert meetings, UNHCR issued a Handbook on Protection of Stateless Persons.\n\nStateless refugees covered by the 1951 convention should be treated in accordance with international refugee laws. As of 1 September 2015, 86 states were party to the 1954 convention, up from 65 when UNHCR launched its conventions campaign in 2011.\n\nOn 13 December 1975, the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness entered into force. It provides a number of standards regarding acquisition and loss of nationality, including automatic loss, renunciation, and deprivation of nationality.\n\nIn 1974, the UN General Assembly (UNGA) requested that UNHCR undertake the functions established by the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. While the convention had only 37 state parties on 1 January 2011, 33 states pledged to accede to it at a ministerial event organized by UNHCR in December 2011. As of 1 September 2015, the number of state parties had increased to 64.\n\nStarting in 1994, the UNHCR Executive Committee (ExCom) and the UNGA asked UNHCR to broaden its activities concerning statelessness to include all states. In 1996, UNHCR was asked by the UNGA to actively promote accessions to the 1954 and 1961 conventions, as well as to provide interested states with technical and advisory services pertaining to the preparation and implementation of nationality legislation.\n\nAn internal evaluation released in 2001 suggested that UNHCR had done little to exercise its mandate on statelessness. Only two individuals were tasked with overseeing work in that area at UNHCR headquarters, though some field officers had been trained to address the issue. The evaluation also noted that there was no dedicated budget line.\n\nConcerned organisations such as the Open Society Justice Initiative and Refugees International have called for UNHCR to dedicate more human and financial resources to statelessness. In 2006, a statelessness unit (now a statelessness section) was established in Geneva, and staffing has increased both in headquarters and in the field. As part of an overhaul of UNHCR’s budget structure in 2010, the budget dedicated to statelessness increased from approximately US$12 million in 2009 to $69.5 million in 2015.\n\nIn addition to regular staff in regional and country offices, UNHCR has regional statelessness officers in Dakar, Senegal, for West Africa; Nairobi, Kenya, for the Horn of Africa; Pretoria, South Africa, for Southern Africa; San José, Costa Rica, for the Americas; Bangkok, Thailand, for Asia and the Pacific; Almaty, Kazakhstan, for Central Asia; Brussels, Belgium, for Europe; and Amman, Jordan, for the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nIn 2004, ExCom instructed UNHCR to pay particular attention to situations of protracted statelessness and to explore, in cooperation with states, measures that would ameliorate and end these situations. In 2006, it provided UNHCR with more specific guidance on how to implement its mandate. The Conclusion on Identification, Prevention and Reduction of Statelessness and Protection of Stateless Persons requires UNHCR to work with governments, other UN agencies, and civil society to address statelessness. UNHCR's activities are currently categorized as identification, prevention, reduction, and protection.\n\nUNHCR has achieved some success with campaigns to prevent and reduce statelessness among peoples in the Crimean peninsula (Armenians, Crimean Tatars, Germans, and Greeks) who were deported \"en masse\" at the close of World War II. Another success has been the naturalization of Tajik refugees in Kyrgyzstan, as well as campaigns that have enabled 300,000 Tamils to acquire Sri Lankan citizenship. UNHCR also helped the Czech Republic reduce the large number of stateless persons created when it separated from Slovakia.\n\nAt the beginning of 2006, the UNHCR reported that it had records of 2.4 million stateless persons, and estimated that there were 11 million worldwide. By the end of 2014, UNHCR had identified close to 3.5 million stateless persons in 77 countries and estimated the total number worldwide to be more than 10 million.\n\nUNHCR does not report refugee populations in its statelessness statistics in order to avoid double counting, which would affect the total number of \"persons of concern\". Stateless refugees are counted as refugees, not as stateless. For the same reason, Palestinian refugees under the mandate of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) are not reported in the UNHCR statelessness table. Instead, they are referred to elsewhere in UNHCR's statistical reporting.\n\nWhile the two UN conventions on statelessness constitute the primary international framework for the protection of stateless persons and the reduction of statelessness, there are also regional instruments of great importance. The 1997 European Convention on Nationality, for example, has contributed to protecting the rights of stateless persons and provides standards for reducing statelessness in the Council of Europe region. That document emphasizes the need of every person to have a nationality, and seeks to clarify the rights and responsibilities of states in ensuring individual access to a nationality.\n\nToday, some of the largest populations of stateless persons are found in Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, Côte d'Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominican Republic, India, Kenya, Latvia, Estonia, Malaysia, Mauritania, Myanmar, Nepal, Brunei, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Algeria and Thailand.\n\nSome stateless people have received widespread public attention in airports due to their status as ports of entry.\n\nOne famous case is that of Mehran Karimi Nasseri, an expelled Iranian who lived in Charles de Gaulle Airport in France for approximately 18 years after he was denied entry to the country. (The 1994 French film \"Tombés du ciel\" and the 2004 American film \"The Terminal\" are fictional stories inspired by his experiences.)\n\nAnother case is that of Zahra Kamalfar, an Iranian who lived in Sheremetyevo International Airport near Moscow for many months before receiving refugee status in Canada.\n\nCountries that restrict multiple nationality often require immigrants who apply for naturalisation to obtain official documentation from their countries of origin proving that they are no longer citizens. In others, including Taiwan, the documentation must be provided prior to the granting of citizenship. During the period between the renunciation/cancellation of the prior citizenship and the granting of the new citizenship by naturalization, the applicant may be officially stateless. (In two cases in Taiwan, Pakistani immigrants applied for naturalization and renounced their Pakistani citizenship. In the interim, the decisions to permit their naturalization as citizens of Taiwan were reversed, leaving them stateless.)\n\n Australia had 37 stateless people in onshore detention, who had been detained for an average of 2 years and 106 days and the longest was 3 years and 250 days. The number of stateless people in offshore detention is unknown. There were a further 57 stateless people living in the community after being approved for a residence determination. In Australia statelessness is not itself a ground for grant of a visa and the person must instead rely upon other grounds, such as being a refugee. Notable cases include:\n\n\nThere are a large number of stateless permanent residents in Brunei. Most of these residents have lived on Bruneian soil for generations, but Bruneian nationality is governed by the policy of \"jus sanguinis\"; the right to hold it comes from blood ties. The government of Brunei has made obtaining citizenship possible, albeit difficult, for stateless people who have inhabited Brunei for many generations. Requirements include rigorous tests in Malay culture, customs, and language. Stateless permanent residents of Brunei are given an International Certificate of Identity, which allows them to travel overseas. The majority of Brunei's Chinese and Indians are permanent residents.\n\nHolders of International Certificates of Identity can enter Germany and Hungary visa-free for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period. In the case of Germany, in theory, in order for an individual to benefit from the visa exemption, the ICI must be issued under the terms of the 1954 Convention Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons, and it must contain an authorization to return to Brunei with a sufficiently long period of validity.\n\nBrunei is a signatory to the 1959 Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which states that \"the child shall be entitled from his birth to a name and a nationality\", but it does not currently follow the guidelines of the convention. The Sultan of Brunei has announced changes that may expedite the process by which stateless persons with permanent residence status sit for citizenship exams.\n\nAn amendment to the Canadian Citizenship Act (S.C. 2008, c. 14, previously Bill C-37) came into effect on 17 April 2009 and changed the rules for the acquisition of foreign-born Canadian citizenship. Individuals born outside Canada can now become Canadian citizens by descent only if at least one of their parents was either a native-born citizen or a naturalised citizen of Canada.\n\nThe new law limits citizenship by descent to one generation born outside Canada. All individuals born within one generation of the native-born or naturalised citizen parent are automatically recognised as Canadian citizens, but second-generation descendants born abroad are no longer citizens of Canada at birth, and such individuals might be stateless if they have no claim to any other citizenship. Since the passage of Bill C-37, this situation has already occurred at least twice:\nUnder Bill C-37, the term \"native-born\" is construed strictly: children born outside of Canada to Canadian government employees working abroad, including diplomats and Canadian Forces personnel, are considered foreign-born.\n\nThe bill was intended to resolve the status of so-called \"Lost Canadians\"—people who considered themselves Canadians, with undeniable connections to the country, but who had either lost or never been granted citizenship because of the vagaries of the country's previous nationality law.\n\nThere are an estimated 800,000 Haitians in the Dominican Republic. For much of its history, the Dominican Republic had a \"jus soli\" policy, meaning that all children born in the country, even to undocumented parents, were automatically given citizenship. This is a policy practiced by most countries in the Western Hemisphere. But in June 2013, the Dominican high court amended existing legislation to exclude from \"jus soli\" citizenship children born \"in transit\", such as the children of foreign diplomats and \"those on their way to another country\". Since 2013, the law has been expanded to address the children of non-citizens, such as Haitian migrants who immigrated after 1929.\n\nSince the passing of the amendment, nearly 200,000 Dominicans of Haitian descent have been stripped of their Dominican citizenship. Without birth certificates, identification, or nationality, they are stateless and living illegally in the Dominican Republic, leaving them vulnerable to deportation. As of July 2015, according to the International Organization for Migration, about 1,133 individuals had voluntarily or involuntarily relocated to Haiti. By law, many are eligible to apply for naturalised citizenship in either Haiti or the Dominican Republic, but financial, bureaucratic, and discriminatory obstacles have prevented many from doing so.\n\nEstonia and Latvia, two neighboring European countries, were occupied by Soviet Union since 1940. When their independence was restored in 1991, citizenship was automatically granted to individuals who had been Latvian citizens prior to 18 June 1940 or Estonian citizens prior to 16 June 1940, and their descendants. Citizens of Soviet Union, who had moved to Estonia or Latvia while they were occupied Soviet Union did not receive citizenship automatically in 1991, and neither did their descendants. They had to apply for naturalisation as immigrants, a process that included a knowledge test and a language test in Estonian or Latvian. Children born after Latvia re-established independence (21 August 1991) to parents who are both non-citizens are also entitled to citizenship at the request of at least one of the parents.\n\nThese criteria mainly excluded ethnic Russians. Some decided not to apply for Estonian or Latvian citizenship because Russia has a visa waiver for stateless persons living in Estonia and Latvia, while Estonian and Latvian citizens need to obtain a visa to enter Russia. These stateless persons can also travel freely within the Schengen area. Today, about 12% of residents of Latvia, and 6% of residents of Estonia, are stateless.\n\nArticle 19 of the Greek Citizenship Code (Law 3370 of 1955) stated: \"A person of non-Greek ethnic origin leaving Greece without the intention of returning may be declared as having lost Greek citizenship. This also applies to a person of non-Greek ethnic origin born and domiciled abroad. Minor children living abroad may be declared as having lost Greek citizenship if both their parents or the surviving parent have lost it as well.\" (The Minister of the Interior decides such cases, with the concurring opinion of the Citizenship Council.).\n\nArticle 19 was abolished in 1998, but no provision was established for restoring citizenship to people who had lost it. Interior Minister Alekos Papadopoulos stated that, since the article's introduction in 1955, 60,000 Greeks had lost their citizenship because of it. Many of these people moved and adopted the nationality of another country. However, an estimated 300–1,000 people remain stateless in Greece (primarily minorities in Thrace, some of whom never settled abroad) and other former Greek citizens are stateless outside the country (an estimated 1,400 in Turkey and an unknown number elsewhere).\n\nStateless individuals in Greece have had difficulty receiving social services like health care and education. Until December 1997, they were denied the protection of the 1954 U.N. Convention Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons, which Greece ratified in 1975. Then, as a result of pressure from nongovernmental organizations and minority deputies, around 100 ethnic Turks made stateless under Article 19 received identity documents from Greek authorities in accordance with the 1954 U.N. Convention. In August 1998, Foreign Minister Theodoros Pangalos stated that within a year, most or all stateless persons living in Greece would be offered Greek citizenship; this promise was repeated in subsequent months by Alternate and Deputy Foreign Ministers George Papandreou and Giannos Kranidiotis. However, the government took no steps to carry out this promise.\n\nFrom the mid-1950s until 1998, the Greek government used Article 19 to discriminate not only against the Turkish ethnic minority in Western Thrace, but also against immigrants to Turkey itself. The dispute over Cyprus between Greece and Turkey further exacerbated the problem, and tens of thousands of Greek citizens lost their nationality arbitrarily, sometimes while they were simply visiting Turkey on holiday.\n\nThe law was repealed in 1998, but not retroactively (i.e., those who had been affected did not have their citizenship automatically restored). Human rights groups and the United Nations have since helped many to regain their citizenship, but not without long struggles. Many stateless residents of Greece have had their nationality restored, but others have been waiting for decades, unable to re-enter the country of their birth and sometimes separated from their families in Greece.\n\nHong Kong, as a special administrative region of China, does not have its own citizenship laws. The right of abode is the status that allows unrestricted right to live and work in Hong Kong; persons with right of abode in Hong Kong are called permanent residents. Most permanent residents of Chinese descent are Chinese citizens as provided by the Chinese nationality law. Citizens of other countries who have obtained right of abode in Hong Kong remain the citizens of their respective countries, and enjoy all the rights accorded to permanent residents except for those restricted to permanent residents with Chinese citizenship, such as the right to a HKSAR passport and the eligibility to be elected as the Chief Executive.\n\nWhen Hong Kong was transferred from the United Kingdom to China on 1 July 1997, all British Dependent Territories citizens (BDTCs) connected to Hong Kong lost their British nationality, unless they had applied for the British National (Overseas) (BN(O)) status. Most BDTCs of Chinese descent became Chinese citizens. BDTCs who did not become Chinese citizens and did not apply for BN(O) status while holding no other citizenship became British Overseas citizens (BOCs). As BN(O) and BOC statuses do not provide right of abode in the United Kingdom, BN(O)s and BOCs of non-Chinese descent who do not hold any other citizenship are \"de facto\" stateless. However, British nationality law allows BN(O)s and BOCs who are otherwise stateless to register for full British citizenship. In addition, the Chinese nationality law as applied in Hong Kong provides the option of naturalisation as a Chinese national.\n\nChinese citizens from the mainland who had migrated to Hong Kong on a One-way Permit lose their mainland hukou (household registration). They then must reside in Hong Kong for 7 years before gaining the right of abode in Hong Kong. Therefore, persons who had migrated out of the mainland but have not obtained Hong Kong permanent residency, while technically not stateless, are unable to exercise rights and privileges associated with citizenship in either the mainland or Hong Kong.\n\nStateless permanent residents of Hong Kong and Chinese migrants without right of abode may apply for a Hong Kong Document of Identity for Visa Purposes, which allows them to travel overseas. This document (with few exceptions) requires the holder to apply for and receive a travel visa prior to departure from Hong Kong.\n\nChildren born to foreign domestic workers are not classified as citizens because Chinese nationality is determined by blood ties. Under the visa regulations governing foreign domestic workers, the government of Hong Kong may award an unconditional stay visa. Many of these children can obtain citizenship in their parents' country of birth. When they are put up for adoption, however, citizenship applications can become challenging. In cases where both adoptive parents are Chinese nationals, the children will likely remain stateless. Applying for Chinese citizenship by naturalisation is only possible for permanent residents of Hong Kong, and an unconditional stay visa does not grant this status.\n\nEliana Rubashkyn, a transgender woman and refugee, became \"de facto\" stateless in 2013 after being detained for over eight months on the grounds that her appearance did not match her passport photo. She suffered mistreatment in detention at Chep Lap Kok Airport and in Kowloon's Queen Elizabeth Hospital. She was granted refugee status, but Hong Kong did not recognize her as a refugee because it is not a signatory to the refugee convention of 1951 and sought to deport her to Colombia. In 2013, the UN sought a third country to resettle her due to the lack of protections for LGBT people and refugees in Hong Kong. After almost one year, a UN declaration recognized her as a woman under international law, and she was sent to New Zealand, where she received asylum.\n\nAs of 2012, India and Pakistan were each holding several hundred prisoners from the other for violations like trespass or visa overstay, often with accusations of espionage. Some of these prisoners have been denied citizenship in both countries, leaving them stateless. In Pakistani law, if one leaves the country for more than seven years without any registration from a Pakistani embassy or foreign mission of any country, they will be losing Pakistani citizenship.\n\nIn 2012, the BBC reported on the case of Muhammad Idrees, who lived in Pakistan and had been held under Indian police control for approximately 13 years for overstaying his 15-day visa by 2–3 days after seeing his ill parents in 1999. He spent much of those 13 years in prison waiting for a hearing, sometimes homeless or living with volunteer families. Both states denied him citizenship.\n\nThe BBC linked these problems to the political atmosphere caused by the Kashmir conflict. The Indian People's Union for Civil Liberties told the BBC it had worked on hundreds of cases with similar features. It called Idrees' case a \"violation of all human rights, national and international laws\", adding, \"Everybody has a right to a nation.\" The Indian Human Rights Law Network blamed \"officials in the home department\" and slow courts, and called the case a \"miscarriage of justice, a shocking case\".\n\nThere are over 100,000 Bhutanese refugees in Nepal, who have neither Bhutanese nor Nepalese citizenship.\n\nWhen Japan lost control over Korea in 1945, those Koreans who remained in Japan received Chōsen-seki, a designation of nationality that did not actually grant them citizenship. Roughly half of these people later received South Korean citizenship. The other half were affiliated with North Korea, which is unrecognized by Japan, and they are legally stateless. Practically speaking, they mostly hold North Korean citizenship (albeit meaningless in Japan, their country of residence) and may repatriate there, and under Japanese law, they are treated as foreign nationals and given the full privileges entitled to that class. In 2010, Chōsen-seki holders were banned from South Korea.\n\nUNHCR published a study on statelessness in Japan in 2010.\n\nPalestinians in Lebanon and those in Syria are constitutionally denied citizenship, and are thus stateless. By 2011, it was estimated that there were close to 300,000 stateless Kurds in Syria. While the government’s implementation of the 2011 Decree did result in reducing the number of stateless persons, a significant part of Syria’s remaining statelessness problem has now been ‘exported’ to new geographic and legal contexts with the displacement of affected persons out of the country.\n\nStateless persons in Kuwait are descendants of Arab nomads who have settled in Kuwait during the 1960s but were denied the right to citizenship for different reasons. The number of stateless Kuwaitis, who are locally known as Bedoons -the Arabic for \"without\", ranges between 120,000 and 200,000,\n\nThe first Bedoon demonstrations for nationality rights took place on February 18, 2011. That year, Kuwaiti courts ruled that Bedoon could be issued birth, marriage and death certificates. Before those rulings, Bedoons were impeded in education and employment by the lack of such documentation.\n\nThe Kuwaiti government has given some stateless people conditional rights and has worked to improve their overall standard of living. The government has incorporated into Kuwaiti society those who can provide documentation verifying that their male descendants resided in Kuwait prior to 1967. Many families cannot provide such documents because they were never issued by the government. Thus, only a minority of stateless people in Kuwait have access to this status.\n\nStateless people in Kuwait are divided into five groups:\nConditional access for green card holders is provided only as long as the identification card belonging to the male head of household is current and has the green classification. It is common for cards not to be renewed. The International Coalition for the Rights of the Stateless announced that it would report the lack of renewals to the United Nations at the Periodic Review for Kuwait in 2015. Of the four color classifications, only the green card is linked to the provision of services such as: \nAccording to media reports, Kuwait does not prioritize stateless people for citizenship. Rather, priority is given to citizens of other countries and foreign spouses of important Kuwaitis, as well as foreigners who have performed a service for Kuwait. There is no public information regarding the number of stateless people who are granted Kuwaiti citizenship.\n\nIn 2013, \"BBC News\" reported that 4,000 \"foreigners\" would receive citizenship. (The number was higher than usual because in 2012, there was no such round of citizenship distribution.) But the government said that only a third of Bedoons were eligible for naturalisation, and that the rest had destroyed documents identifying them as citizens of other nations.\n\nLocal news sources in Kuwait have cited parliamentarians in reporting that the government wants to deport Bedoons. Some humanitarian agencies have reported that posters advertising fraudulent passport services were placed in government offices, and that workers advised stateless people that they could not register at the office, but should take down the details on the poster. A Refugees International/Open Society Foundations report on 13 May 2011 stated, \"After years of encouraging—sometimes coercing—Bidoon to sign affidavits to the effect that they were nationals of other countries, government officials became involved in an illicit trade of forged foreign passports.\" This strategy enabled hundreds, if not thousands, of stateless families to be removed from government records and designated \"other nationals\", allowing the government to deny any obligation to provide services and preventing those families from ever receiving citizenship. Kuwait also expelled some 400,000 Palestinians during the Iraq War.\n\nOn 17 April 2014, a parliamentarian, Nabil al Fadhl, argued that stateless persons accused of security offences should be sent to camps in the desert. At least one author who provided information for the United Nations' Universal Periodic Review of Kuwait was blacklisted and accused of such security offences. Since then, parliamentarians who have spoken in opposition to the Kuwaiti government have been rendered stateless.\n\nRestrictions on employment and education mean that many stateless people are never employed. Some men who sell fruit in the street are made to pack up their things or risk arrest for security offences. The streets of the segregated communities of Taima and Sulabiya are deserted during the daytime because whole families are effectively confined to their homes.\n\nThere are no statistics available on what portion of the stateless population has access to government-funded services. Nor is there up-to-date information on the numbers of registered and unregistered stateless people in Kuwait; only an approximate figure of \"those eligible to receive citizenship\"—i.e., people who were issued green cards in 2012—has been published. The number of registered stateless people has likely fallen because many identity cards have not been renewed, as reported to the United Nations' International Coalition for the Rights of the Stateless in advance of the 15th Periodic Review of Kuwait.\n\nMost of Qatar's Bedoon are stateless tribesmen from the Ghufrani tribe. In 2005, Qatar stripped the citizenship of over 5,000 members of the tribe. After international outcry, it restored the citizenship of approximately 2,000. Today, there are between 1,200 and 1,500 Bedoon in Qatar.\n\nIn the UAE, some stateless people were granted citizenship after many years/decades. Children of a foreign parent were also granted citizenship. \n\nEven though Palestinians living in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip were issued Palestinian passports under the Oslo Accords, many countries (such as Germany) do not recognize their citizenship. As a matter of international law, only states can have nationals (meaning citizens), and the citizenship status of Palestinians therefore depends on whether or not Palestine is a state. Some countries recognize Palestinian statehood, but others do not.\n\nAfter Israel annexed East Jerusalem following the Six-Day War in 1967, Palestinians living there received, along with Israeli permanent residency status, the right to apply for citizenship. Shortly after the offer was made, it was rejected by Arab leaders. Almost all Jerusalem Palestinians have shied away from citizenship for ideological reasons. Between 1967 and 2007, only 12,000 of the 250,000 Palestinians living in Jerusalem applied for Israeli citizenship. Since 2007, more have applied, although the majority still reject it. Those who do not have Israeli citizenship are generally stateless.\n\nMany descendants of Palestinian refugees live permanently in countries of which they would be expected to be citizens, but they are not citizens because that country adheres to the policy of the Arab League in denying citizenship to Palestinians.\n\nAbbas Shiblak estimates that over half of the Palestinian people in the world are stateless.\n\nThe Rohingya people are minority group in Myanmar (formerly Burma) whose status as citizens of that country, and whose human rights in general, have been severely curtailed by the Burmese government.\n\nIn 1994, Juan Mari Brás, a Puerto Rican lawyer and political historian, renounced his American citizenship before a consular agent in the United States Embassy of Venezuela. In December 1995, his loss of nationality was confirmed by the US Department of State. That same month, he requested that the Puerto Rico State Department furnish him with proof of his Puerto Rican citizenship. The request involved more than just a bureaucratic formality; Mari Brás tested the self-determination of Puerto Rico by trying to become the first Puerto Rican citizen who was not also an American citizen.\n\nMari Brás claimed that as a Puerto Rican national born and raised in Puerto Rico, he was clearly a Puerto Rican citizen and therefore had every right to continue to reside, work, and, most importantly, vote in Puerto Rico. The State Department responded promptly, claiming that Puerto Rican citizenship did not exist independent of American citizenship, and in 1998, the department rescinded its recognition of his renunciation of citizenship. The official response to Mari Brás stated that Puerto Rican citizenship existed only as an equivalent to residency. However, the Puerto Rico State Department issues certificates of citizenship to people born outside of Puerto Rico to a Puerto Rican parent, including some people who may have never resided in the territory.\n\nFollowing a failed coup in 2016, the Turkish government revoked about 50,000 passports. While most of the people whose passports were revoked were in Turkey at the time, one notable Turkish expatriate affected by this action was NBA player Enes Kanter. He is a vocal critic of Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and a public supporter of the Gülen movement, which the government blamed for the coup attempt. Kanter's passport was canceled while he was attempting to travel to the U.S., and he was briefly detained in Romania before being allowed to continue his travel. Turkey issued an arrest warrant against Kanter in May 2017, claiming that he was a member of \"an armed terrorist organization.\" The government's action effectively rendered Kanter stateless, and he has since expressed a desire to seek U.S. citizenship. He currently holds a U.S. green card, which enables him to travel to and from Canada for games in Toronto.\n\nDifferent classes in British nationality law have led to situations in which people were considered British subjects but not nationals, or in which people held a British passport without right of abode in the United Kingdom. Examples include so-called British protected persons, who are not considered British nationals. British nationals (irrespective of the class of nationality) who reside abroad but are not entitled to protection by the British government are \"de facto\" stateless.\n\nMany situations that put people at risk of statelessness were resolved after 30 April 2003, when the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act of 2002 came into force. As a result of this act, the United Kingdom gave most people with residual British nationality but no other citizenship the right to register as full British citizens. However, there are still some people who have not been able or willing to register as citizens. Following the publication of a joint UNHCR-Asylum Aid report in 2011, the UK adopted a statelessness determination procedure in 2013.\n\nIn January 2014, the Immigration Bill 2013–14 was introduced to extend the powers of the Home Secretary to declare certain terrorism suspects stateless. The bill was initially blocked by the House of Lords in April 2014. However, the Lords reconsidered their decision in May 2014, and the bill returned to the House of Commons before being set into UK law.\n\nThe United States, which is not a signatory to the 1954 Convention on the Status of Stateless Persons or the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness, is one of a small number of countries that allow their citizens to renounce their citizenship even if they do not hold any other. The \"Foreign Affairs Manual\" instructs State Department employees to make it clear to Americans who will become stateless after renunciation that they may face extreme difficulties (including deportation back to the United States) following their renunciation, but to afford such persons their right to give up citizenship. Former Americans who have voluntarily made themselves stateless as a form of political protest include Garry Davis, Thomas Jolley, Joel Slater, Mike Gogulski, and, most recently, Jason Minard. THE UNHCR published a report on statelessness in the United States in 2012 in which it recommended the establishment of a determination procedure that incorporates a definition of statelessness in accordance with international law to ensure that stateless persons are permitted to reside in the United States.\n\nThe Fourteenth Amendment of the US Constitution granted citizenship to African American slaves. The Supreme Court ruling in \"United States v. Wong Kim Ark\" clarified that people born to aliens on US soil were entitled to citizenship under the Fourteenth Amendment. However, it excluded Native Americans by defining a citizen as any person born in the US, but only if \"subject to the jurisdiction thereof\"; this latter clause excluded anyone who already had citizenship in a foreign power, such as a tribal nation. The Indian Citizenship Act addressed the issue by granting citizenship to America's indigenous peoples. It is possible for a Native American to renounce his or her US citizenship while maintaining membership in a tribal nation.\n\nUNHCR’s responsibilities were initially limited to stateless persons who were refugees, as set out in Paragraph 6(A)(II) of its statute and Article 1(A)(2) of the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. They were expanded following the adoption of the 1954 Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons and the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. General Assembly Resolutions 3274 (XXIV) and 31/36 designated UNHCR as the body responsible for examining the cases of persons who claimed the benefit of the 1961 convention and assisting such persons in presenting their claims to the appropriate national authorities. Subsequently, the United Nations General Assembly conferred upon UNHCR a global mandate for the identification, prevention, and reduction of statelessness and for the international protection of stateless persons. This mandate has continued to evolve as the General Assembly has endorsed the conclusions of the UNHCR Executive Committee, notably Executive Committee Conclusion No. 106 of 2006 on the \"identification, prevention, and reduction of statelessness and protection of stateless persons\".\n\nThe UNHCR launched a global campaign on 4 November 2014 to end statelessness within 10 years.\n\nAs part of the campaign, it published a special report providing a comprehensive overview of statelessness and delving into the human impact of the phenomenon. It also published an open letter addressed to states, urging them to take action. In addition to UNHCR High Commissioner António Guterres, the letter was signed by Angelina Jolie, a UNHCR special envoy; Surin Pitsuwan, former secretary-general of ASEAN; Shirin Ebadi, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate; Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu; Barbara Hendricks, a UNHCR honorary lifetime goodwill ambassador; Madeleine Albright, former US secretary of state; Carla Del Ponte, former chief prosecutor of two UN international criminal tribunals; Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein and Louise Arbour, former UN high commissioners for human rights; and Dame Rosalyn Higgins, former president of the International Court of Justice, among others.\n\nIn addition, a \"global action plan to end statelessness\" was launched following consultation with states, civil society, and international organisations. It sets out a guiding framework of 10 actions that need to be taken to end statelessness by 2024.\n\nThe plan includes actions to:\n\nThe 10 actions are:\n\nIn March 2012, the International Stateless Persons Organisation (ISPO), an international non-governmental organization, was founded by Dr. Fernando Macolor Cruz, a tribal prince and instructor of history and political science at Palawan State University in the Philippines. It aims to provide institutional representation to stateless persons throughout the world through a network of volunteer human rights law practitioners who act as country representatives.\n\nThe Institute on Statelessness and Inclusion is an independent non-profit organisation dedicated to leading an integrated, interdisciplinary response to statelessness. It works on research, analysis, empowerment, advocacy, and awareness globally. It also maintains an online forum on statelessness.\n\nThe European Network on Statelessness, a civil society alliance, was set up to address the problem of 600,000 stateless persons in Europe and to act as a coordinating body and expert resource for organisations across Europe that work with or come into contact with stateless persons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17011107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17011107", "title": "The Burke Group", "text": "The Burke Group\n\nThe Burke Group is a U.S.-based international management consulting firm established in 1982 with headquarters in Los Angeles. The Burke Group describes itself as an \"international leader\" in guiding management during union recognition campaigns. It provides commercial services to private and public employers. Services are also offered toward business development and leadership training. Critics of The Burke Group call the firm's practices professional union busting.\n\nThe CEO and President is David J. Burke.\n\nThe Burke Group Labor assists employers in responding to automatic recognition and ballot campaigns. According to its U.S. website, employees considering a trade union:\n\n\"Employees want and deserve to hear both pro employer and pro union arguments in order to make an informed choice before voting in a union election. A union organizer is experienced at running a union membership campaign whereas employers have little if any experience on how to respond to them when this activity presents itself. Once union activity becomes apparent, employers generally seek TBG and/or legal counsel in order to be better able to respond accurately and lawfully to employees.\"\n\nAlthough their business has reportedly been international in scope since its inception, their services increased in the EU \"after the Employee Relations Act 1999 (ERA 1999) was established in June 2000 and triggered new procedures related to trade union recognition and ballot elections\". UK employers may seek the services of labor relations consultants such as The Burke Group and/or legal counsel to assist them thru the new law's complexities regarding automatic recognition or subsequent ballot elections. \"Human Rights Watch does not take the position that employer silence is required under international standards. Rather, non-interference is required by international standards.\" As stated by Dr. John Logan: \"Britain has a “hybrid” system of union recognition: employers can recognize the union without a demonstration of majority support, or, if the employers refuse voluntary recognition, the Central Arbitration Committee can recognize the union on the basis of documentary evidence of union membership or by holding a ballot election.\"\n\nWhen direct communications known as third party persuading are requested, The Burke Group recommends its U.S. clients work with \"Labor Information Services,\", where David J Burke is also CEO. This service provides workers a chance to talk \"directly\" with professional consultants during organizing campaigns which allows questions and answers from sources other than professional union organizers. \"Direct communications with employees during union activity must be conducted in strict accordance with the definitions and guidelines provided within the Landrum-Griffin Act known as the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act passed by the U.S. Congress in 1959. It requires detailed reporting of all monies paid for third party activities be provided via Form LM10 which is later posted for public record.\"\n\nAccording to their webpage, Labor Information Services is necessary because \"the increase of non English speaking workers throughout U.S. industries has made communications (third party persuading) to a company's workforce a major challenge. The supervisors and managers at most companies are not bi-lingual, they do not know the law (National Labor Relations Act) nor can they be expected to answer employee questions in the short time frame of a union organizing campaign.\" Labor Information Services consultants are fluent in English, Spanish, Tagalog, French, Portuguese, Vietnamese, and a number of varieties of Chinese.\n\nA report released in 2008 called \"US Union Avoidance Consultants: A Threat to the Rights of British Workers\" commissioned by the Trades Union Congress (UK) to coincide with their joint announcement with the AFL-CIO (USA) of their campaign to thwart employer efforts which they claimed to \"demonise trade unions and scare employees from joining up.\" The campaign was designed to demonise companies which employ consultancies during recognition campaigns and ballot elections. The report examined tactics allegedly used by U.S. consultants and law firms, including detailed descriptions of Burke Group and clients in the UK. \n\nIn response, a Burke Group press release noted, the \"report was biased and misleading based on subjective partisan research for which no request has ever been made to TBG nor its clients to review the veracity of the statements/conclusions contained therein before going to print.\"\n\nIn May 2007, the Communication Workers Union in the UK petitioned Cable and Wireless for \"automatic recognition\" of their Field Service team by filing form 1A which defines and describes the potential unit to the Central Arbitration Committee. After review, the Central Arbitration Committee sanctioned the unit. However Cable and Wireless Worldwide decided to challenge the decision due to the relatively small size of the unit and concerns about potential fragmentation.\n\nIn August 2007, reps employed by the Communication Workers Union were assigned at Cable and Wireless to provide guidance to employees regarding joining their union. Cable and Wireless also employed reps to provide guidance to Cable and Wireless management. But according to an article in The Guardian, the Communication Workers Union expressed \"shock\" saying that such hiring \"can only lead to an atmosphere of bitterness and resentment.\" \n\nIn April 2008, after a review of the “appropriate bargaining unit”, the Central Arbitration Committee ordered a workforce ballot election process (as opposed to automatic recognition) as the best way to decide the most appropriate form of representation. The subsequent ballot election resulted in a 92% turnout of the Cable and Wireless Field Services team where 77% voted against the Communication Worker’s Union as their representative for collective bargaining.\n\nIn May 2009, to dispute the outcome of the ballot election, the Communication Workers Union filed a complaint to the Central Arbitration Committee and The Joint Committee on Human Rights. Annotated from evidence presented at the hearing: “The Burke Group (TBG) was engaged by Cable and Wireless to advise them on the statutory recognition process because it was complex and unfamiliar to Cable and Wireless. TBG helped Cable and Wireless to implement a 'fact-based' approach to the ballot process which enabled managers to inform their teams about the union recognition process and what it would mean for them. The Burke Group did not engage directly with employees in the bargaining unit, and they supported the ballot process. Both Cable and Wireless and the Communication Workers Union had equal access to employees and colleagues during the 20 day ballot process.”\n"}
{"id": "10165030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10165030", "title": "Trust law in civil law jurisdictions", "text": "Trust law in civil law jurisdictions\n\nTrust law is not part of most civil law jurisdictions, but is a common figure in most common law system (and thus in most Commonwealth jurisdictions). Trust law enters civilian jurisdictions through conflict of law arrangements recognizing it as a matter of private international law and has been implemented in the civil code of certain countries such as Liechtenstein and Curaçao.\n\nSometimes, in a civil law jurisdiction, a foreign trust is involved. This recognition often involves \"translating\" the trust's characteristics into legal concepts that do exist within the civil law country. With the accession of the United Kingdom to the European Community, the trust entered Community Law; the law of the member state where the trust is constituted (the \"situs\") is designated as the applicable law (the law that must be followed) in member states. Certain trusts must be recognized by parties to the Hague Trust Convention (amongst which the civil law countries Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland) if they are following certain requirements: the trust must be an express trust reduced to writing.\n\nThe Curaçao trust and Sint Maarten trust exist since 1 January 2012 and 1 April 2014 respectively. They enable creation of trusts in the jurisdiction of Curaçao/Sint Maarten, when constituted by notarial instrument. The legislation is similar as it is based on a legislative act proposed for the Netherlands Antilles, and which was adopted in both jurisdictions separately after the dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles.\n\nThe Liechtenstein trust requires a written agreement and registration on a trusts registry, which will not be publicly available if it is registered within 12 months. Later registrations require the registration in public record of the trustee's name, and certain details of the trust.\n"}
{"id": "1640236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640236", "title": "United States administrative law", "text": "United States administrative law\n\nUnited States federal administrative law encompasses statutes, common law, and directives issued by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Executive Office of the President, that together define the extent of powers and responsibilities held by administrative agencies of the United States Government (both executive branch agencies and independent agencies). The executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the U.S. federal government cannot always directly perform their constitutional responsibilities. Specialized powers are therefore delegated to an agency, board, or commission. These administrative governmental bodies oversee and monitor activities in complex areas, such as commercial aviation, medical device manufacturing, and securities markets.\n\nJustice Breyer defines administrative law in four parts. Namely, the legal rules and principles that: (1) define the authority and structure of administrative agencies; (2) specify the procedural formalities employed by agencies; (3) determine the validity of agency decisions; and (4) define the role of reviewing courts and other governmental entities in relation to administrative agencies.\n\nU.S. federal agencies have the power to adjudicate, legislate, and enforce laws within their specific areas of delegated power.\n\nThe authority of federal administrative agencies stems from their organic statutes, and must be consistent with constitutional constraints and legislative intent.\n\nFederal administrative agencies, when granted the power to do so in a statutory grant of authority from Congress, may promulgate rules that have the effect of substantive law. Agencies \"legislate\" through rulemaking—the power to promulgate (or issue) regulations. Such regulations are codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) and published in the \"Federal Register\".\n\nSection 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act gives the following definitions:\n\nThe primary administrative law statutes and other laws that govern agency rule making include:\n\nThe Congressional Review Act passed in 1996 created a category of \"major rules\", which are those that the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs determines result in either: (1) \"an annual effect on the economy of $100,000,000,\" (2) \"a major increase in costs or prices for consumers, individual industries, Federal, State, or local government agencies, or geographic regions,\" or (3) \"significant adverse effects on competition, employment, investment, productivity, innovation, or on the ability of United States-based enterprises to compete with foreign-based enterprises in domestic and export markets.\" If the rule is major, an additional report must be provided to congressional committees. From 1997 to 2012, the number of major rules has ranged from 100 (2010) to 50 (2002).\n\nE.O. (Executive Order) 12866, which was issued in 1993, requires agencies (other than independent agencies) to submit proposed rules for reviews by OIRA if the rule meets certain criteria. Rules that are \"economically significant\" (meeting the criteria of \"an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy\") require a cost-benefit analysis.\n\nLimits on the power of agencies to promulgate regulations include:\n\nAgencies may not promulgate retroactive rules unless expressly granted such power by the agency's organic statute. \"Bowen v. Georgetown University Hospital\", \n\nThere is no broad prohibition against an agency's regulation that does not serve the \"public convenience, interest, or necessity.\" The law presumes that rulemaking conducted with procedural safeguards of the statutes and Executive Orders noted above reflect a rational balancing of interests by the agency, and a court will strike down a regulation only for violation of those procedures.\n\nAgencies are permitted to rely on rules in reaching their decisions rather than adjudicate, where the promulgation of the rules is within the agency's statutory authority, and the rules themselves are not arbitrary or capricious. \"Heckler v. Campbell\", .\n\nAgencies must abide by their own rules and regulations. \"Accardi v. Shaughnessy\", .\n\nCourts must defer to administrative agency interpretations of the authority granted to them by Congress (1) where the intent of Congress was ambiguous and (2) where the interpretation was reasonable or permissible. \"Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.\", . \"Chevron\" is probably the most frequently cited case in American administrative law.\n\nThere are five levels of rulemaking procedure:\n\n\"Nonlegislative rules\" include three main classes:\nA class called \"guidance\" includes all rules not promulgated by legislative procedure, such as guidance, guidelines, agency staff manuals, staff instructions, opinion letters, interpretive memoranda, policy statements, guidance manuals for the public, circulars, bulletins, advisories, press releases stating agency position, and the like. The class of \"guidance\" is almost, but not exactly, coextensive with the union of the sets of interpretative rules, general statements of policy, and housekeeping rules.\n\nEvery statute and regulation has some lingering ambiguity. Someone has to have authority to adopt some interpretation, and do so with a minimum of procedural delay. So the law grants every agency the authority to promulgate interpretative rules, and to do so with minimal procedural fuss. By default, most interpretations slot into the “interpretative rule” category of 5 U.S.C. § 553(b).\n\nIf an interpretation satisfies a long list of criteria, then the interpretation is binding on parties before the agency, courts, and the agency itself, under \"Chevron U.S.A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.\" (for agency interpretations of statute) or \"Auer v. Robbins\" (for agency interpretations of regulations). (The inquiries under \"Chevron\" and \"Auer\" are slightly different. But the analytical similarities overshadow the differences. For this short article, we will gloss over the differences, and treat \"Chevron\" and \"Auer\" together).\n\nAny interpretation that fails any one of the \"Chevron\"/\"Auer\" eligibility bullets from the list below falls into the residual category of “interpretative rule.”\n\nFundamentally, the § 553(b) “interpretative” exemption from notice and comment is a rule of necessity—laws have to be interpreted, and (for public-facing substantive rules) the agency is the party that can do so fairly, and deference follows to the degree the agency demonstrated diligence in developing its interpretation (under \"Chevron\", \"Auer\", or \"Skidmore v. Swift & Co.\", as appropriate).\n\nThe \"quid pro quo\" for an agency’s choice to exercise the “interpretative” option, and forego the formalities required for legislative rulemaking or for \"Chevron\" or \"Auer\" deference, is that the agency has very little enhanced power to enforce its interpretation. If a party challenges the agency's interpretation, an agency’s invocation of the “interpretative” exemption surrenders any claim to heightened \"Chevron\" or \"Auer\" deference, and the interpretation falls into the residual category, under which a court gives \"Skidmore\" deference to an agency’s informed position:\n\nAs a practical matter, an agency operates under the agency's interpretative rules. The law permits parties before the agency to argue alternative interpretations, and under the law, agencies are supposed to respond to the arguments, and not foreclose alternatives suggested by parties. But as a pracitcal matter, agencies seldom give anything more than short shrift consideration to alternatives. On judicial review, the practical reality is that a court is most likely to agree with the agency, under \"Skidmore\" deference. But \"Skidmore\" deference is only as strong as the quality of the agency’s analysis, and courts regularly overturn “interpretative” rules.\n\nSome agency interpretations are binding on parties and the courts, under \"Chevron\" deference:\n\nBut an agency has to \"earn\" this deference; it is far from automatic. When an agency interprets its own organic statute (for \"Chevron\") or a regulation that it promulgated (under \"Auer\"), and the interpretation meets \"all\" the following prerequisites, \"only then\" does the agency receive the high deference of \"Chevron\" or \"Auer\".\n\nIn addition to the three classical steps, an agency must observe additional procedural formalities:\n\nAn “interpretative” rule sets out the agency’s interpretation of a statute or rule, without altering rights or obligations. If the interpretation fails at least one of the \"Chevron\"/\"Auer\" criteria, then the interpretation falls into the category of “interpretative rule” which binds only the agency itself, and is entitled to at most \"Skidmore\" deference.\n\nThe line for permissible exercise of the § 553(b) “interpretative” exemption is blurry—courts and treatise writers uniformly complain about this. The most basic requirement for the “interpretative” exemption is that the agency “interpret” a validly promulgated law (statute or regulation), by following a recognizable interpretative path originally set out by the statute or regulation. An agency may promulgate an “interpretative” rule “only if the agency’s position can be characterized as an ‘interpretation’ of a statute or legislative regulation rather than as an exercise of independent policymaking authority.” Mere “consistency” (in the sense of “absence of clash”) is insufficient. Most “gap filling” is beyond the scope of “interpretative” authority. An “interpretative” rule cannot create a new requirement, carve-out, or exception from whole cloth. If the rule changes “individual rights and obligations” (rather than resolving ambiguity), the rule requires legislative procedure.\n\nAn agency may promulgate interpretative rules outside the scope of its rule making authority. Where an agency can only issue legislative rules pursuant to an express grant of authority from Congress, an agency may (and is encouraged to) issue advisory interpretations to guide the public.\n\nIf an agency elects the “interpretative” shortcut, there are almost no procedural requirements, beyond the publication required by 5 U.S.C. § 552 and § 552(d). The decision maker must ensure that there is indeed an ambiguity that is not resolved by any binding law, but if the ambiguity exists, the decision maker simply interprets as best he or she may. If the issue is outside the agency’s scope of rule making authority, the agency must follow the agency or courts that do have authority on that specific issue.\n\nIn return for the privilege of bypassing rule making procedure, the agency risks loss of binding effect for an interpretative rule. “An agency issuing an interpretative rule . . . may well intend that its interpretation bind its own personnel and may expect compliance from regulated individuals or entities. Nonetheless, the agency cannot expect the interpretation to be binding in court; because it does not have the force of law, parties can challenge the interpretation.” Many courts have characterized interpretative rules as only “hortative” and “lacking force of law.”\n\nIn proceedings before the agency, a party may advance alternative positions or interpretations, and the agency must address them, without relying on an interpretative rule as the last word.\n\nInterpretative rules are binding on agency employees, including its administrative law judges (ALJs). If an interpretative rule (say, a provision of the MPEP, or the PTAB Trial Guidelines) sets a “floor” under the rights of a party, individual employees have no discretion to back out of the agency’s interpretation or create ad hoc exceptions adverse to the party.\n\n“Statements of policy” are even weaker statements than “interpretative” rules. Agencies use them to express agency preferences, but with no binding effect. Policy statements are “tentative intentions,” nonbinding rules of thumb, suggestions for conduct, and tentative indications of an agency’s hopes. Policy statements have no binding effect. A policy statement “genuinely leaves the agency and its decisionmakers free to exercise discretion,” and “a statement of policy may not have a present effect: a ‘general statement of policy’ is one that does not impose any rights and obligations.”\n\nAgencies likewise use “policy statements” to offer a unilateral \"quid pro quo\" or set a floor for agency procedure (“If you the public do X, we the agency promise favorable outcome Y. If you don’t do X, you can still convince us to do Y by arguing the controlling law.”).\n\nA near-certain indicator of a “statement of policy” is the word “should” rather than “must.” \n\nAgency policy statements are not binding on courts, and therefore receive no \"Chevron\" deference, not even weak \"Skidmore\" deference.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, many agencies were bypassing the APA’s requirements for rulemaking by tucking rules into informal documents like agency staff manuals and the like. This is simply illegal. The Executive Office of the President stepped in to stop bootleg rulemaking, and forbade this practice. Some agencies, for example, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, have nonetheless continued to defy the law, and state their formal refusal to implement the President's directive.\n\nThe distinction between these types of rules has been called \"one of the most confusing in administrative law\".\n\nAbout 2,500 to 4,000 rules are published per year, and in 2011 32% of the Federal Register pages were in the \"Rules and Regulation\" section. However, included in the total number of rules are the repeal of rules and also minor rules. The GAO maintains a Federal Rules Database and in 2012, 68% of rules were classified as Routine/Info/Other while the remainder were Significant/Substantive. In addition to an overall number of rules, there are \"major rules\" and \"significant\" rules.\n\nSection 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act gives the following definitions:* Adjudication is \"an agency process for the formulation of an order;\"\n\nThere are two ways that an individual can attain the right to a hearing in an adjudicative proceeding. First, the Due Process clause of the 5th Amendment or 14th Amendment can require that a hearing be held if the interest that is being adjudicated is sufficiently important or if, without a hearing, there is a strong chance that the petitioner will be erroneously denied that interest. A hearing can also be required if a statute somehow mandates the agency to hold formal hearings when adjudicating certain issues.\n\nThe adjudication will typically be completed with a written report containing findings of fact and conclusions of law, both at the state and federal level. If the affected does not wish to contest the action, a consent order may be published allowing for the hearing to be bypassed.\n\nAgency actions are divided into two broad categories discussed above, rulemaking and adjudication. For agency decisions that have broad impact on a number of parties, including parties not specifically before the agency, the agency must use the procedures of rulemaking (see the bullet list in \"Administrative law statutes governing rulemaking\" above). Because actions by rulemaking affect many parties, rulemaking procedures are designed to ensure public participation, and are therefore more cumbersome, except that the agency is permitted to seek comment by publication of notice, without soliciting the views of specific parties. For decisions that, on first glance, affect only a small number of parties that actually appear before the agency (see the section on \"Adjudication\" above), the agency may use procedures that are generally simpler, but that require the agency specifically solicit input from the directly affected parties.\n\nAdjudication decisions may become precedent that binds future parties, so the transition zone between the regime for rulemaking and the regime for adjudication is very hazy.\n\nThe classical test for the dividing line is seen in the contrast between two cases decided a few years apart, both involving taxes levied by the city of Denver Colorado. In 1908, in \"Londoner v. City and County of Denver\", a tax levied on residents of a particular street was held to be an adjudication, and the Supreme Court ordered the city to do a \"do over,\" because the residents of the street were not given sufficient opportunity to be heard. Then, in 1915, in \"Bi-Metallic Investment Co. v. State Board of Equalization\", a tax levied on the entire city of Denver was held to be rulemaking, and the city's action of imposing the tax was affirmed.\n\nFactors tending to make an act adjudicative in nature:\n\nFor most agencies, the choice of whether to promulgate rules or proceed by common law adjudicative decisions rests in the informed discretion of agencies. \"SEC v. Chenery Corp.\", (Dissenting opinion arguing that the decision permitted agencies to rule arbitrarily, without law). Agencies may also announce new policies in the course of such adjudications. Some agencies' organic statutes obligate the agency to use rulemaking, for example, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, 35 U.S.C. § 2(b)(2)(B).\n\nA party aggrieved by an agency action (either rulemaking or adjudication) may seek judicial review (that is, sue) as provided by an agency's organic statute or by §§ 701-706 of the Administrative Procedure Act.\n\nStudies of judicial review typically find that 70% of agency rules are upheld with the Supreme Court upholding 91% of rules; a 2011 empirical study of judicial review found that 76% were upheld, although the D.C. Circuit, which hears many administrative law cases, has been found less deferential than other courts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1561125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561125", "title": "Warrant of execution", "text": "Warrant of execution\n\nA warrant of execution is a form of writ of execution used in the County court in England and Wales (only). It is a method of enforcing judgements and empowers a county court bailiff to attend a judgement debtor’s (hereafter, debtor) address to take goods for sale. The closest equivalent in Scotland is a Charge for Payment, executed by Sheriff Officers after a decree (a Scots Law judgement) is granted in a Sheriff Court in favour of a pursuer (claimant) seeking recovery of a debt or other sum due.\n\nAn application for a warrant of execution can be made by the judgement creditor (hereafter, creditor) at any point following the entry of judgement.\n\nThe request can be made for any amount up to the outstanding value of the judgement along with an application for the costs of requesting the warrant.\n\nA warrant of execution can be issued in the County Court to recover a debt between £50 (£600 if the debtor is in Scotland) and £5,000. If amount sought is more than £600 it can be enforced in the High Court using a writ of control.\n\nThe value of the warrant will calculated by adding the amount of the request, plus the court fee and creditor's costs (if granted).\n\nAs the warrant can only be sought on a judgement debt of £5,000 or less, statutory interest is not recoverable.\n\nUpon issue of the Warrant the court will transfer the case to the debtor's local court and write to the debtor informing them of the warrant. The debtor is currently given seven days to pay the amount of the warrant without further action; if the defendant pays within this time, the warrant is cancelled and the money is sent by the court to the creditor. \n\nShould the defendant fail to pay, the bailiff will visit the premises of the defendant, usually within fifteen working days, and attempt to identify items which can be sold at auction to recoup the outstanding debt, subject to the restrictions below. Such items are usually removed and stored, the storage costs being added on to the outstanding balance. The items are auctioned, usually without a reserve price, and the resulting amount (less auctioneer fees) is paid to the creditor.\n\nIf there is still an outstanding balance, the bailiff may again visit and seize further goods or assets.\n\nInstead of actually removing goods, the bailiff can take payment from the debtor or agree to return later to allow the debtor to gather funds. If the debtor agrees to pay later the bailiff may take walking possession of goods as a surety of payment.\n\nThe warrant grants limited rights of entry to the bailiff depending on the type of property and whether the bailiff has already successfully visited the debtor.\n\nA bailiff can only enter using peaceable means unless they have a High Court writ giving them the right to force entry. When forcing entry they must have a locksmith and police officer present and cannot force entry themselves. The locksmith can break into a locked door and if the debtor attempts to bar entry then the police officer can remove them or the bailiff can use reasonable force to remove them. \nPeaceable entry means that they cannot push past the debtor to get in though an open door, they cannot get in though an open window (the law previously allowed them to do so), they cannot climb over fences or locked gates; they can only gain entry though an unlocked door or unlocked gate. Gaining entry to the land (i.e. the garden) does not give them permission to force entry into the property. They do not require permission to enter the property.\n\nIf the bailiff has previously been admitted and is returning to collect payment or goods to be sold, then they have a right of entry to residential property even if the occupants refuse to let them in. In this case they can force entry.\n\nIf there is no living accommodation attached and the bailiff has good reason to believe the debtor has goods inside, they may force entry to business premises.\n\nSocial policy considerations, particularly the requirements enshrined in the Overriding Objective of the Civil Procedure Rules 1998, currently limit the goods which the bailiff may take.\n\nThe goods must currently meet the following criteria:\n\n\nAs the warrant is a specific sanctioned interference with the debtor's general right to enjoyment of his property any question as to whether goods are or are not available for seizure is likely to be determined in the Defendant's favour.\n\nThe defendant may apply for the warrant to be suspended; this application must state reasons, for instance an offer to pay by instalments, and usually requires payment of a fee. The court will inform the creditor of the application and require them to confirm whether they agree to the suspension and if not to state why and, in the case of an offer, what they would accept.\n\nIf the suspension is contested the court will list the application for a hearing. The court will there decide whether the warrant should be suspended, and whether terms attach to the suspension. The court is not bound by the party's suggested payment regimes.\n\nWarrants last for a period of one year from the date of issue. In some cases a fee can be paid to extend the warrant's life beyond one year, but the creditor must supply the court with sufficient reason for such an extension to be granted, and - unless there are exceptional circumstances - apply before the warrant expires.\n\nHMCS| Her Majesty's Court Services\n"}
