{"id": "41649549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41649549", "title": "A Boy and His Dog (1975 film)", "text": "A Boy and His Dog (1975 film)\n\nA Boy and His Dog is a 1975 American science fiction comedy thriller film produced, written (with Alvy Moore), and directed by L. Q. Jones, starring Don Johnson, Susanne Benton, Ron Feinberg, and Jason Robards.\n\nThe film was distributed in the United States by LQ/JAF Productions and in the United Kingdom by Anglo-EMI Film Distributors. The film's script is based on the 1969 cycle of narratives by fantasy author Harlan Ellison titled \"A Boy and His Dog\".\n\nThe film concerns a teenage boy (Vic) and his telepathic dog (Blood), who work together as a team in order to survive in the dangerous post-apocalyptic wasteland of the Southwestern United States. On August 6, 2013, Shout! Factory released the film on DVD and Blu-ray.\n\nSet in a post-nuclear war Earth in the year 2024, the main character, Vic (Don Johnson) is an 18-year-old boy, born in and scavenging throughout the wasteland of the former southwestern United States. Vic is most concerned with food and sex; having lost both of his parents, he has no formal education and does not understand ethics or morality. He is accompanied by a well-read, misanthropic, telepathic dog named Blood who helps him locate women in return for food. Blood cannot forage for himself due to the same genetic engineering that granted him telepathy. The two steal for a living, evading bands of marauders, berserk androids, and mutants. Blood and Vic have an occasionally antagonistic relationship (Blood frequently annoys Vic by calling him \"Albert\" for reasons never made clear in the movie, but rather in an interview later on with Harlan Ellison, where she says “When he [Blood] calls him ‘Al’ or ‘Albert,’ he is referring to the Albert Payson Terhune dog stories, whereas a traditional boy and his dog relationship is turned upside down in this movie.”), though they realize that they need each other. Blood wishes to find the legendary promised land of \"Over the Hill\" where aboveground utopias are said to exist, though Vic believes that they must make the best of what they have.\n\nSearching a bunker for a woman for Vic to rape, they find one, but she has already been severely mutilated and is on the verge of death. Vic displays no pity, and is merely angered by the \"wastefulness\" of such an act as well as disgusted by the thought of satisfying his urges with a woman in such a condition. They move on, only to find slavers excavating another bunker. Vic steals several cans of their food, later using them to barter for goods in a nearby shantytown settlement.\n\nThat evening, while watching old vintage stag films at a local outdoor movie house, Blood claims to smell a woman, and the pair track her to a large underground warehouse. There, they meet Quilla June Holmes (Susanne Benton), a scheming and seductive teenage girl from \"Downunder\", a society located in a large underground vault. Unknown to the pair, Quilla June's father, Lou Craddock (Jason Robards), had sent her above ground to \"recruit\" surface dwellers. Blood takes an instant dislike to her, but Vic ignores him. After Vic saves Quilla June from raiders and mutants, they have repeated sex. Eventually, though, she takes off secretly to return to her underground society. Vic, enticed by the thought of women and sex, follows her, despite Blood's warnings. Blood remains at the portal on the surface.\n\nDownunder has an artificial biosphere, complete with forests and an underground city, which is named Topeka, after the ruins of the city it lies beneath. The entire city is ruled by a triumvirate known as \"the Committee\", who have shaped Topeka into a bizarre caricature of pre-nuclear war America, with all residents wearing whiteface and clothes that harken back to the rural United States prior to World War II. Vic is told that he has been brought to Topeka to help fertilize the female population and is elated to learn of his value as a \"stud\". Then he is told that Topeka meets its need for exogamous reproduction by electroejaculation and artificial insemination, which will not allow him to feel the pleasure or release that he seeks. Anybody who refuses to comply or otherwise defies the Committee is sent off to \"the farm\" and never seen again. Vic is then told that when his sperm has been used to impregnate 35 women, he will be sent to \"the farm\".\n\nQuilla June helps Vic escape because she wants him to kill the Committee members and destroy their android enforcer, Michael (Hal Baylor), so that she can usurp power. Vic has no interest in politics or remaining underground, only wishing to return to Blood and the wasteland, where he feels at home. The rebellion is quashed by Michael, who crushes the heads of Quilla June's two co-conspirators before Vic disables him. She proclaims her \"love\" for Vic and decides to escape to the surface with him, realizing that her rebellion has been undone and that the Committee has decreed that she is to be sent to \"the farm\".\n\nOn the surface, Vic and Quilla June discover Blood is starving and near death. She pleads with him to abandon Blood, forcing Vic to face his feelings. Vic decides that his loyalties lie with Blood. This results, off-camera, in her being killed and her flesh cooked, so that Blood can eat and survive. Blood thanks Vic for the food, and they both comment on Quilla June, with Vic stating it was her fault to follow him, and Blood joking that she did not have bad \"taste\". The film ends with the boy and his dog walking off into the wasteland together.\n\nHarlan Ellison, the author of the original novella \"A Boy and His Dog\", started the screenplay but encountered writer's block, so producer Alvy Moore and director L. Q. Jones wrote the script, with Wayne Cruseturner, who was uncredited. Jones' own company, LQ/Jaf Productions (L. Q. Jones & Friends), produced the film. They filmed the movie near Coyote Dry Lake in the Mojave Desert. The Firesign Theater was also involved with the writing of the script.\n\nJames Cagney's voice was considered as the voice of Blood, but was dropped because it would have been too recognizable and prove to be a distraction. Eventually, after going through approximately six hundred auditions, they settled on Tim McIntire, a veteran voice actor who also did most of the music for the film. McIntire was assisted in composing the music by Ray Manzarek (misspelled in the film credits as \"Manzarec\"), formerly of The Doors.\n\nMcIntire sang the main theme. Latin American composer Jaime Mendoza-Nava provided the music for the Topeka underground segment.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 75% approval rating based on 32 reviews and an average rating of 6.6/10. The site's consensus states: \"An offbeat, eccentric black comedy, \"A Boy and His Dog\" features strong dialogue and an oddball vision of the future.\"\n\nThe film won the 1976 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation at MidAmeriCon, the 34th World Science Fiction Convention in Kansas City, not far from the real Topeka. Johnson won the Golden Scroll for Best Actor, which was shared with James Caan for his performance in \"Rollerball\". In 2007, it ranked #96 on Rotten Tomatoes \"Journey Through Sci-Fi\" (100 best-reviewed science fiction films).\n\nThe film was not commercially successful at the time of its release. It has, however, developed a cult following over the years and also inspired the video game series \"Fallout\" \"on many levels, from underground communities of survivors to glowing mutants.\" On the film's DVD audio commentary, Jones states that Ellison was generally pleased with the film, with the exception of some lines of dialogue. Ellison particularly objected to the film's final line, in which Blood said of Quilla, \"Well, I'd say she certainly had marvelous judgement, Albert, if not particularly good taste.\" Ellison referred to it as a \"moronic, hateful chauvinist last line, which I despise.\"\n\nRumors have abounded over the years regarding a sequel, but it has never materialized. On the film's DVD audio commentary, L. Q. Jones states that he had started to write a script sequel to the film that would have picked up right where the first film ended and featured a female warrior named Spike, and we would have seen this world through the eyes of a female instead of a male. (This happens in Ellison's story, \"Blood's a Rover\", when Blood partners with Spike after the ostensible death of Vic). Jones and Ellison collaborated on this short-lived effort. Ellison, however, has denied that development went beyond a short \"what if?\" conversation, and that any efforts were solely that of Jones. According to \"Cult Movies 2\", Jones had a sequel planned called \"A Girl and Her Dog\", but the plan was scrapped when Tiger, the dog who portrayed Blood, died. In a December 2003 interview, Jones claimed that he has been repeatedly approached to make a sequel, but funding is always an issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18630494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18630494", "title": "Academia Panameña de la Lengua", "text": "Academia Panameña de la Lengua\n\nThe Academia Panameña de la Lengua (Spanish for \"Panamanian Academy of Language\") is an association of academics and experts on the use of the Spanish language in Panama.\nIt was founded in Panama City on August 9, 1926. \nBoth former presidents Ricardo Joaquín Alfaro Jované and Ernesto de la Guardia were members of the academy.\nIt is a member of the Association of Spanish Language Academies.\n"}
{"id": "1470780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470780", "title": "Acorn Antiques", "text": "Acorn Antiques\n\nAcorn Antiques is a parodic soap opera written by Victoria Wood as a regular feature in the two seasons of \"Victoria Wood As Seen On TV\", which ran from 1985 to 1987. It was turned into a musical by Wood, opening in 2005.\n\nWood originally wrote \"Acorn Antiques\" as a weekly slot in her sketch shows \"Victoria Wood As Seen On TV\". She based it on the long-running ATV/Central serial \"Crossroads\" (1964-1988), and radio soap \"Waggoners' Walk\" (1969-1980). Swipes were also taken at current soaps such as \"EastEnders\" and \"Coronation Street\" with their apparent low production values, wobbly sets, overacting, appalling dialogue and wildly improbable plots.\n\nIts premise—the lives and loves of the staff of an antiques shop in a fictional English town called Manchesterford—hardly reflects the ambitious and implausible storylines, which lampooned the staples of soap operas: love triangles, amnesiacs, sudden deaths and siblings reunited.\n\nIt also satirised the shortcomings of long-running dramas produced on small budgets with its little artificial-looking set, missed cues, crude camera work and hasty scripts. A lack of continuity is seen in distinct lapses where storylines are introduced and dropped between episodes and character development is forgotten. One episode, for example, is introduced as reflecting the current interest in health fads with a plot where the antiques shop is merged into a \"Leisure centre and sunbed centre\", never to be mentioned again. This story-line also reflected changes in the \"Crossroads\" storyline in the mid-1980s as a leisure centre opened at the motel, which was the setting of the serial. \n\nThe deliberately haphazard opening and end credits, together with its tinny title music, also lampooned \"Crossroads\". The opening sequence was updated for the second series, with a reworking of the theme tune and shots of Miss Babs, one of the leading characters, driving to \"Acorn Antiques\" in the firm's van. This too was reflective of changes in the \"Crossroads\" series at the time, as the show gained its first filmed opening sequence. Another nod to changes in the mid-1980s \"Crossroads\" opening sequence was the inclusion in one episode of \"Acorn Antiques\" of vertical window blinds, with the show's title written on them. Predictably, the \"Acorn Antiques\" version did not work and had to be pushed aside by hand. \n\nPerhaps the most comical element of \"Acorn Antiques\" were the missed cues, harking back to the days when \"Crossroads\" was recorded live. Fictional floor managers and directors can be heard prompting the dreadful actors to say their lines, whilst the end of several scenes show the actors not quite knowing what to do with themselves while the camera is still rolling.\n\nReferences to other daytime television devices featured; after one episode a continuity announcer mentions an exhibition of costumes from the show touring several British towns, and after another episode a range of novelisations is mentioned (bearing such archetypical purple titles as \"A Waning Moon\", and little resemblance to screened storylines). The announcement that the show's theme tune was available to buy as \"Anyone Can Break A Vase\" sung by Miss Babs, was a reference to the release of \"Anyone Can Fall In Love\", based on the \"EastEnders\" theme and sung by one of its cast members, Anita Dobson.\n\nWood also created a spoof arts documentary about the show for her \"As Seen on TV\" special, in keeping with similar straight-faced \"behind-the-scenes\" shows produced about soap operas, which revealed the shambolic production of Acorn Antiques being put together, and interviewed the self-obsessed fictional actors behind the fictional characters. At one point, when an obvious continuity error is pointed out, the hard-nosed producer \"Marion Clune\" (played by Maggie Steed) summed up the directorial attitude: \"We professionals notice - Joe Public never clocks a darn thing.\" The documentary also depicted the actress portraying the drudge Mrs. Overall as being an archetypal soap diva called Bo Beaumont (although in the series the fictional end titles credit Julie Walters as Mrs Overall).\n\nIn the final show of \"Victoria Wood As Seen on TV\" a sketch was shown where the actors playing Mrs Overall and Mr Clifford are supposedly sacked from the soap and killed off and Bo Beaumont/Julie Walters breezes out of the studio, complaining to the TV news crew outside \"Does a faithful dog expect to be kicked? That show was my life.\"\n\nThe sketches even led to a fanzine and appreciation gatherings where fans would dress up as the characters. In 2004, in a poll on its website, Channel 4 voted \"Acorn Antiques\" the 7th best comedy sketch of all time.\n\nThe show made a brief return to television in 1992 in \"Victoria Wood's All Day Breakfast\", her satire on daytime television. A sketch of its soap, \"The Mall\", ends with Mrs Overall returning to reopen Acorn Antiques, mentioning that the other principal characters had been killed in a bus crash (even though she herself had been killed off in the final episode of the original series). A special one off episode was broadcast in 1996 in a programme to commemorate 60 years of BBC Television. One final sketch was shown in 2001 with the original cast and Nick Frost as an armed robber (as part of Wood's \"History of Sketch Comedy\" BBC1 series).\n\nIn 2005 Victoria Wood created a musical version with Julie Walters, Celia Imrie and other members of the original cast, the role of Mrs Overall being alternated between Julie Walters and Wood. The original run was directed by Trevor Nunn and had a sellout season in the West End. It earned several Olivier Award nominations, and Celia Imrie won the award for Best Supporting Actress in a Musical. It was revived on tour in 2007, directed this time by Victoria Wood herself.\n\nThe Crescent Theatre in Birmingham presented the premiere of the first amateur production of the show in May 2010. The Leighton Masqueraders became the second amateur drama group to put on a production of the show later in 2010. Richard and Thomas Ayre are listed as lighting operator's and Victoria Wood attended opening night.\n\nWigston Amateur Operatic Society put on their production of the show in May 2016 at The Little Theatre in Leicester.\n\n\nA DVD containing \"Acorn Antiques\" as an individual release was made available in a 20th Anniversary Collection on 7 February 2005.\n\n\"Acorn Antiques\" was released as part of the complete series of \"Victora Wood: As Seen on TV\" on 2 April 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "50053916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50053916", "title": "Al-Maʿrifa (magazine)", "text": "Al-Maʿrifa (magazine)\n\nThe Arabic journal al-Maʿrifa (DMG: al-Maʿrifa; English: \"Knowledge\") was published in Egypt between 1931 and 1934. The editor ʿAbd Al ʿAzīz Al-Islāmbūlī published it for three years and a total of 30 issues. The preface states that this monthly journal is sufistic oriented and aims to inform the readers scientifically and culturally. Not only art, culture and literature were addressed but above all scientific knowledge was published and discussed. According to the editor Al-Islāmbūlī sufistic moral and wisdom were not a priority but to be taken into account.\n\n"}
{"id": "28924150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28924150", "title": "Architecture of Madagascar", "text": "Architecture of Madagascar\n\nThe architecture of Madagascar is unique in Africa, bearing strong resemblance to the construction norms and methods of Southern Borneo from which the earliest inhabitants of Madagascar are believed to have immigrated. Throughout Madagascar and the Kalimantan region of Borneo, most traditional houses follow a rectangular rather than round form, and feature a steeply sloped, peaked roof supported by a central pillar.\n\nDifferences in the predominant traditional construction materials used serve as the basis for much of the diversity in Malagasy architecture. Locally available plant materials were the earliest materials used and remain the most common among traditional communities. In intermediary zones between the central highlands and humid coastal areas, hybrid variations have developed that use cob and sticks. Wood construction, once common across the island, declined as a growing human population destroyed greater swaths of virgin rainforest for slash and burn agriculture and zebu cattle pasture. The Zafimaniry communities of the central highland montane forests are the only Malagasy ethnic group who have preserved the island's original wooden architectural traditions; their craft was added to the UNESCO list of Intangible Cultural Heritage in 2003. As wood became scarce over time, wooden houses became the privilege of the noble class in certain communities, as exemplified by the homes of the Merina nobility in the 19th century Kingdom of Madagascar. The use of stone as a building material was traditionally limited to the construction of tombs, a significant feature of the cultural landscape in Madagascar due to the prominent position occupied by ancestors in Malagasy cosmology. The island has produced several distinct traditions in tomb architecture: among the Mahafaly of the southwest coast, the top of tombs may be stacked with the skulls of sacrificed zebu and spiked with \"aloalo\", decoratively carved tomb posts, while among the Merina, aristocrats historically constructed a small wooden house on top of the tomb to symbolize their \"andriana\" status and provide an earthly space to house their ancestors' spirits.\n\nTraditional styles of architecture in Madagascar have been impacted over the past two hundred years by the increasing influence of European styles. A shift toward brick construction in the Highlands began during the reign of Queen Ranavalona II (1868–1883) based on models introduced by missionaries of the London Missionary Society and contacts with other foreigners. Foreign influence further expanded following the collapse of the monarchy and French colonization of the island in 1896. Modernization over the past several decades has increasingly led to the abandonment of certain traditional norms related to the external orientation and internal layout of houses and the use of certain customary building materials, particularly in the Highlands. Among those with means, foreign construction materials and techniques – namely imported concrete, glass and wrought iron features – have gained in popularity, to the detriment of traditional practices.\n\nThe architecture of Madagascar is unique in Africa, bearing strong resemblance to the architecture of southern Borneo from which the earliest inhabitants of Madagascar are believed to have emigrated. Traditional construction in this part of Borneo, also known as South Kalimantan, is distinguished by rectangular houses raised on piles. The roof, which is supported by a central pillar, is steeply sloped; the gable beams cross to form roof horns that may be decoratively carved. The central Highlands of Madagascar are populated by the Merina, peoples who bear strong physiological and cultural resemblance to their Kalimantan ancestors; here, the traditional wooden houses of the aristocracy feature a central pillar (\"andry\") supporting a steeply sloped roof decorated with roof horns (\"tandro-trano\"). In the southeast of Madagascar, actual zebu horns were traditionally affixed to the gable peak. Throughout Madagascar, houses are rectangular with a gabled roof as in Kalimantan, central pillars are widespread, and in all but a handful of regions, traditional homes are built on piles in a manner handed down from generation to generation, regardless of whether the feature is suited to local conditions.\n\nCertain cosmological and symbolic elements are common across Indonesian and Malagasy architecture as well. The central house pillar is sacred in Kalimantan and Madagascar alike, and in both places, upon constructing a new house this pillar was often traditionally anointed with blood. The features of the building or its dimensions (length, size, and particularly the height) are often symbolically indicative of the status of its occupants or the importance of its purpose on both islands. Likewise, both Madagascar and Borneo have a tradition of partially above-ground tomb construction and the inhabitants of both islands practice the carving of decorative wooden funerary posts, called \"aloalo\" in western Madagascar and \"klirieng\" in the Kajang dialect of Borneo.\n\n Dwellings made of plant material are common in the coastal regions and were once commonly used throughout the Highlands as well. The types of plants available in a given locality determine the building material and style of construction. The vast majority of homes made of plant material are rectangular, low (one-story) houses with a peaked roof and are often built on low stilts. These architectural features are nearly identical to those found in parts of Indonesia. Materials used for construction include reeds (near rivers), rushes (in the southwest around Toliara), endemic succulents (as fencing in the south), wood (in the south and among the Zafimaniry, and formerly common in the Highlands), bamboo (especially in the eastern rain forests), papyrus (formerly in the Highlands around Lake Alaotra), grasses (ubiquitous), palms (ubiquitous but prevalent in the west around Mahajanga) and raffia (especially in the north and northeast).\n\nFor much of the length of the eastern coast of Madagascar bordering the Indian Ocean, architecture is highly uniform: nearly all traditional homes in this region are built on low stilts and are roofed with thatch made of the fronds of the traveler's palm (\"ravinala madagascariensis\"). The stilts, floor and walls are commonly made of the trunk of this same plant, typically after pounding it flat to make wide planks (for floors and roofing) or narrow strips (for walls). These strips are affixed vertically to the frame; the raffia plant is often used in the same way, in place of the traveler's palm, in the north. When bamboo is used in place of ravinala, the long pounded sheets are often woven together to create walls with a checker-like pattern.\n\nThese traditional homes have no chimney. Their floor is covered in a woven mat with stones heaped in one corner where wood fires can be burnt to cook food; the smoke that accumulates blackens the ceiling and interior walls over time. The doorways of these homes were traditionally left open or could be shut by a woven screen held closed with a leather strap; today the entryway is frequently hung with a fabric curtain. Variations on this basic template can be found in all coastal regions using locally available material. The largest of the traditional coastal houses are found in the southeast among the Antemoro, Tanala and Antefasy peoples, where homes can reach 18' long, 9' wide and 15' high. Elsewhere along the coast homes are much smaller, averaging 10' long, 8' wide and 9' high.\n\n It is believed that wood construction was formerly common in many parts of Madagascar but it has all but disappeared due to deforestation. This is especially true in the Highlands where, until recently, wood had been a building material reserved for the aristocratic class due to its increasing rarity, leaving the lower classes to construct in other locally available materials such as reeds and grasses; sticks and branches are occasionally used where available, creating sporadic villages of wood typically within proximity to forest reserves. While the wooden architectural tradition among the aristocracy of the Merina has died out, at least two ethnic groups can be said to have a continuing tradition of plank wood architecture: the Zafimaniry in the central Highlands, and the Antandroy in the far south. Each of these three traditions is described below.\n\nAmong the Merina of the central Highlands, the Temanambondro (Antaisaka) people of the southeastern Manambondro region, and several other ethnic groups, deforestation rendered wood a valuable construction material only to be used by aristocrats. Indeed, its traditional association with the royal \"andriana\" class led King Andrianampoinimerina (1787–1810) to issue a royal edict forbidding construction in stone, brick or earth within the limits of Antananarivo and codifying a tradition in which only the houses of nobles were constructed from wood, while those of peasants were made from local plant materials. This tradition historically existed among a number of ethnic groups in Madagascar, particularly along the eastern coast where the preservation of rainforests continues to facilitate access to wood for construction.\n\nTraditional peasants' houses throughout Imerina featured a thick central pillar (\"andry\") that supported the roof beam and a smaller upright beam at each corner extending into the ground to stabilize the structure. Unlike most coastal houses, Highland homes have never been raised on stilts but have always sat flush to the ground. To the south of the central pillar, in the area designated for sleeping and cooking, wooden or bamboo planks were occasionally installed for flooring, or woven mats were laid on the packed earth floor, which extended north past the pillar. Traditionally, the bed of the head of the family was in the southeast corner of the house. The northern area was distinguished by the hearth, delineated by three oblong stones set vertically into the ground. Houses and tombs were aligned on a north-south axis with the entrance on the west face. The north portion of the house was reserved for males and guests, while the south was for women, children and those of inferior rank. The northeast corner was sacred, reserved for prayer and offerings of tribute to the ancestors.\n\nThe houses of the nobles were constructed according to these same cultural norms, with several additions. They were distinguishable from the outside by their walls made of upright wooden planks and the long wooden horns (\"tandrotrano\") formed by the crossing of the roof beams at each end of the roof peak. The length of the \"tandrotrano\" was indicative of rank: the longer the length, the higher the status of the noble family that lived within. The interior of the building was also somewhat modified, often featuring three central pillars rather than one and occasionally a wooden platform bed raised high off the ground.\n\nAfter Andrianampoinimerina's edicts regarding construction materials in the capital were revoked in the late 1860s, wooden construction was all but abandoned in Imerina and older wooden houses were rapidly replaced with new brick homes inspired by LMS missionaries' British-style dwellings. The \"tandrotrano\" horns were gradually replaced by a simple decorative finial installed at the two ends of the roof peak. Other architectural norms such as the north-south orientation, central pillar and interior layout of homes were abandoned, and the presence of finials on roof peaks is no longer indicative of a particular social class. Classic examples of Highland wooden architecture of the aristocratic class were preserved in the buildings of the Rova compound of Antananarivo (destroyed in a fire in 1995 but under reconstruction) and the walled compound at Ambohimanga, location of the wooden palaces of King Andrianampoinimerina and Queen Ranavalona I. Ambohimanga, arguably the most culturally significant remaining example of the wooden architecture of the Highlands aristocracy, was named a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2001.\n\nThe Zafimaniry inhabit the heavily forested, rainy and temperate region of the Highlands to the east of Ambositra. Their homes are rectangular and large (15' long, 12' wide and 18' high) with a peaked roof, overhanging eaves, and wooden windows and doors. Many of the same standards found in the aristocratic architectural traditions of Imerina are present in the Zafimaniry structures, including the central wooden pillar supporting the roof beam, exclusive use of a tongue and groove joining technique and the orientation of building features such as windows, doors and the interior layout. Zafimaniry houses are often elaborately decorated with carved, symmetrical, abstract patterns that are rich in complex spiritual and mythological symbolism. The architecture of the houses found in this region are considered to be representative of the architectural style that predominated throughout the Highlands prior to deforestation, and as such, they represent the last vestiges of a historic tradition and a significant element of Malagasy cultural heritage. For this reason, the woodcrafting knowledge of the Zafimaniry was added in 2003 to the UNESCO list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.\n\nBy contrast, the Antandroy inhabit the Madagascar spiny thickets, an extremely dry and hot region in the south of Madagascar where unique forms of drought-resistant plants have evolved and thrived. Their homes are traditionally square (not rectangular), raised on low stilts, topped with a peaked roof and constructed of vertically-hung planks of wood affixed to a wooden frame. These homes traditionally had no windows and featured three wooden doors: the front door was the women's entrance, the door at the rear of the house was for children, and the third door was used by the men. Fences are often constructed around Antandroy houses using prickly-pear cactus (\"raketa\") or lengths of indigenous succulents from the surrounding spiny forests.\n\nIn the central Highlands, power struggles between the Merina and vazimba principalities and later amongst Merina principalities over the centuries inspired the development of the fortified town in Imerina, the central region of the Highlands of Madagascar. The first of these, the ancient Imerina capital of Alasora, was fortified by 16th-century king Andriamanelo, who surrounded the town with thick cob walls (\"tamboho,\" made from the mud and dry rice stalks gathered from nearby paddies) and deep trenches (\"hadivory\") to protect the dwellings inside. The entryway through the town wall was protected by an enormous stone disk (\"vavahady\") – five feet in diameter or more – shaded by fig trees (\"aviavy\") symbolic of royalty. The town gate was opened by laboriously rolling the \"vavahady\" away from the entryway each morning and back into place again in the evening, a task that required a team of men to accomplish it. This fortified town model was adopted throughout Imerina and is well represented at the historic village of Ambohimanga.\n\n Protestant Missionary James Cameron of the London Missionary Society is believed to have been the first in Madagascar to demonstrate how local cob building material could be used to create sun-dried bricks in 1826. In 1831, Jean Laborde introduced brick roof tiles that soon began replacing rice stalk thatch in Antananarivo and the surrounding areas, and disseminated the technique of using a kiln to bake bricks.\n\nForeigners were responsible for several architectural innovations that blended the traditions of Highlands architecture with European sensibilities. In 1819, Louis Gros designed the Tranovola for Radama I in the Rova complex, introducing the wraparound veranda supported by exterior columns. Jean Laborde designed the Queen's Palace in the Rova (built 1839–1841) using this same model on an even grander scale by enlarging the building and adding a third-story veranda. The new wooden buildings constructed by Gros and Laborde transformed the \"tandrotrano\" of traditional aristocratic Merina homes into the a decoratively carved post affixed at each end of the gable peak.\n\nIn 1867, restrictions were relaxed on the aristocracy's use of stone and brick as building materials, before all restrictions on construction were abolished in 1869 by Queen Ranavalona II, who had already commissioned Jean Laborde in 1860 to encase the exterior of her wooden palace at the Rova in stone. The building took its final form in 1872 after James Cameron added stone towers to each corner of the palace. The queen converted to Christianity in 1869 and that same year the London Missionary Society commissioned James Cameron to construct a private home for its missionaries. He drew his inspiration from the work of Gros and Laborde to develop a multi-story wooden house with veranda and columns. This model exploded in popularity throughout Antananarivo and surrounding areas as an architectural style for the aristocracy, who had to that point continued to inhabit simple homes similar to the wooden palace of Andrianampoinimerina at Ambohimanga. These newly favored brick houses often featured shortened \"tandrotrano\" and elaborately carved verandas. These homes can naturally range in color from deep red to almost white depending on the characteristics of the earth used in its construction.\n\nOver time, and particularly with the colonization of Madagascar by the French, these earthen houses (known as \"trano gasy\" – \"Malagasy house\") underwent constant evolution. The simplest form of earthen house is one or more stories tall, rectangular, and features a thatched roof with slightly overhanging eaves to direct rain away from the foundation and thereby prevent its erosion. Wealthier families replace the thatch with clay roofing tiles and construct a veranda on the west face of the building supported by four slender equidistant columns; this design is even more effective at protecting the building's foundations from the eroding effects of rainfall. Further expansion often entails the enclosure of the western veranda in wood and the construction of an open veranda on the eastern face of the building, and so forth, leading to wrap-around verandas, the connection of two separate buildings with a covered passage, the incorporation of French wrought-iron grills or glass panels into verandas, the application of painted concrete over the brick surface and other innovations. In suburban and rural zones, the ground floor of the \"trano gasy\" is often reserved as a pen for livestock, while the family inhabits the upper floors. The entrance typically faces west; the kitchen is often to the south, while the family sleeps in the northern part of the building. This configuration is consistent with that seen in the traditional Zafimaniry houses and reflects traditional cosmology.\nOn the eastern side of Madagascar, there is virtually no zone of transition between the earthen houses of the Highlands and the dwellings made of plant materials common to the coastal regions. In the vast and sparsely populated expanses between the Highlands and the western coastal areas, however, inhabitants utilize locally available materials to construct dwellings that bear features of both regions. Most often houses are small – one room and only one story high – constructed of a skeleton of horizontally arranged sticks affixed to the wooden house frame as pictured in the preceding section on wooden construction. But unlike coastal homes where this stick skeleton would serve as a base for affixing plant material to form walls, earthen cob may be packed into the framework instead. The roof is thatched to complete the dwelling. These intermediary houses are also often distinguished by the presence of shortened Highlands-style wooden columns on the western face to support the elongated eave of the peaked roof, much as they support the verandas of the larger homes of Imerina. The floor is typically packed dirt and may be covered with woven mats of grasses or raffia.\n\nAccording to the traditional beliefs of many Malagasy ethnic groups, one attains the status of \"ancestor\" after death. It is often believed that ancestors continue to watch over and shape events on Earth and can intervene on behalf of (or interfere with) the living. As a consequence, ancestors are to be revered: prayers and sacrifices to honor or appease them are common, as well as the observation of the local \"fady\" (taboos) the ancestors may have established in life. Gestures of respect, such as throwing the first capful of a new bottle of rum into the northeast corner of the room to share it with the ancestors, are practiced throughout the island. The most visible emblem of the respect due to ancestors is the construction of the elaborate family tombs that dot the countryside in much of Madagascar.\n\nTraditionally, the majority of Malagasy ethnic groups did not construct solid tombs for their dead. Rather, the bodies of the deceased were left in a designated natural area to decompose. Among the Bara people of the southern arid plains, for instance, tombs may be built into natural features such as rock outcroppings or hillsides by placing the bodies within and partially or entirely sealing the space with stacked stones or zebu skulls. Alternately, among the Tanala, the deceased may be placed in coffins made from hollowed-out logs and left in caves or a sacred grove of trees, sometimes covered over by wooden planks held down by small piles of stones. It is said the Vazimba, the earliest inhabitants of Madagascar, submerged their dead in the waters of a designated bog, river, lake or estuary, which was thereby considered sacred for that purpose. The practice also existed among the earliest Merina, who submerged their dead chiefs in canoes into Highland bogs or other designated waters. Where tombs were built, minor variation in form and placement from one ethnic group to the next is overshadowed by common features: the structure is partially or fully subterranean, typically rectangular in design and made of stone that is either stacked loosely or cemented with masonry. Among the Merina and Betsileo, some early stone tombs and burial sites were indicated by upright, unmarked standing stones.\n\nThe earliest known rectangular stone tombs on Madagascar were most likely built by Arab settlers around the 14th century in the northwestern part of the island. Similar models emerged later among western (i.e. Sakalava, Mahafaly) and highlands (i.e. Merina, Betsileo) peoples, first using unhewn stones and heaped or packed earth before transitioning toward masonry. In the Highlands, the transition to masonry was preceded by the construction of tombs from massive stone slabs collectively hauled by community members to the tomb site. Late 18th century Merina king Andrianampoinimerina is said to have encouraged the construction of such tombs, observing \"A house is for a lifetime but a tomb is for eternity.\"\n\nIn the Highlands of Imerina, the above-ground entrances of ancient tombs were originally marked by standing stones and the walls were formed of loosely stacked flat stones. Examples of these ancient tombs can be found at some of the twelve sacred hills of Imerina. Where a body was not able to be retrieved for burial (as in times of war), a tall, unmarked standing stone (\"vatolahy\", or \"male stone\") was sometimes traditionally erected in memory of the deceased.\nAndrianampoinimerina promoted more elaborate and costly tomb construction as a worthy expense for honoring one's ancestors. He also declared that the highest Merina \"andriana\" (noble) sub-castes would enjoy the privilege of constructing a small house on top of a tomb to distinguish them from the tombs of lower castes. The two highest \"andriana\" sub-castes, the \"Zanakandriana\" and the \"Zazamarolahy\", built tomb houses called \"trano masina\" (\"sacred house\"), while the tomb houses of the \"Andriamasinavalona\" were called \"trano manara\" (\"cold house\"). These houses were identical to standard wooden nobles' houses except for the fact that they had no windows and no hearth. While the lamba-wrapped remains were laid to rest on stone slabs in the tomb below, the deceased's valuable possessions such as gold and silver coins, elegant silk lambas, decorative objects and more were placed in the \"trano masina\" or \"trano manara\", which was often decorated much like a regular room with comfortable furniture and refreshments such as rum and water for the deceased's spirit to enjoy. The \"trano masina\" of King Radama I, which burned with other structures in the 1995 fire at the Rova palace compound in Antananarivo, was said to be the richest known.\n\nToday, tombs may be constructed using traditional methods and materials or incorporate modern innovations such as concrete.\nInside, superimposed slabs of stone or concrete line the walls. The bodies of the ancestors of an individual family are wrapped in silk shrouds and laid to sleep on these slabs. Among the Merina, Betsileo and Tsihanaka, the remains are periodically removed for the famadihana, a celebration in honor of the ancestors, wherein the remains are re-wrapped in fresh shrouds amid extravagant communal festivities before being once again laid to rest in the tomb. The significant expense associated with tomb construction, funerals and reburial ceremonies honors the ancestors even as it counters the emergence of unequal wealth distribution in traditional communities.\nThe tombs found in the southwest of Madagascar are among the most striking and distinctive. Like those in the Highlands they are generally rectangular and partially subterranean; modern tombs may incorporate concrete in addition to (or in place of) traditional stone. They are distinguished from Highlands tombs by their elaborate decoration: images may be painted on the exterior of the tomb, recalling events in an ancestor's life.\nThe roof of the tomb may be stacked with the horns of zebu sacrificed in the ancestor's honor at their funeral, and numerous aloalo—wooden funerary posts carved with symbolic patterns or images representing events in the life of the deceased—may be planted on top. The tombs of the Mahafaly people are especially famed for this type of construction. Among the Sakalava of the western coast, aloalo may be topped with erotic carvings evocative of the cycle of birth, life and death.\n\nForeign architectural influences, having arisen through increased European contact over the course of the 19th century, intensified dramatically with the advent of French colonization in 1896. Over the past several decades, the increasing availability of relatively inexpensive modern construction materials imported from China and elsewhere has further reinforced a growing trend in urban areas away from traditional architectural styles in favor of more durable but generic structures using industrially produced materials such as concrete and sheet metal. Certain modern innovations may be more highly esteemed than others. In the Manambondro region, for instance, corrugated sheet metal roofing was typically the least expensive and prestigious and most common addition to a traditional house. The replacement of locally sourced wood frames with factory-milled lumber was the next most common house modification, followed by the laying of a concrete foundation. Houses built entirely of concrete with glass windows and imported decorative balcony railings and window bars implied great wealth and the highest social status. Although low income levels have served to preserve traditional construction among the majority of the population of Madagascar, due to the prestige associated with modern architectural innovations, traditional construction is often abandoned as income increases.\n\nA limited number of recently constructed homes in Antananarivo attempt to blend Malagasy architectural traditions with the comforts of modern house construction. These hybrids resemble traditional brick Highlands houses from the exterior, but use modern materials and construction techniques to efficiently incorporate electricity, plumbing, air conditioning and current kitchen features in a fully contemporary interior. This innovation is exemplified in the recent residential development at \"Tana Water Front\" in the Ambodivona district of downtown Antananarivo.\n\n"}
{"id": "28641874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28641874", "title": "Behrupiya", "text": "Behrupiya\n\nA behrupiya or bahrupiya (Hindustani: बहरूपिया or بہروپیا) is an impressionist in the traditional performing arts of India, Nepal and Bangladesh. Once popular and widespread, the art form is now in decline with most practitioners living in poverty. It was once common for \"behrupiyas\" to make a dramatic entrance at wedding or other festivities dressed as a policeman, priest, or other figure and create a commotion. The social norm surrounding these appearances was that the \"behrupiya\" usually collected no money if he was detected as an impersonator. However, if he was able to successfully convince his audience of his fake identity, he would then reveal it and be awarded a baksheesh for having entertained the group.\n\nDue to their expertise with disguise and impersonation, good \"behrupiyas\" were recruited as spies by medieval Indian kings.\n\nThe term \"behrupiya\" is derived from the Sanskrit words \"bahu\" (many) and \"roop\" (form or appearance). The mostly-obsolete term \"naqqal\" (नक़्क़ाल or نقّال, meaning \"mimic\" or \"copycat\") is also infrequently used for \"behrupiyas\". Sometimes, \"behrupiyas\" are also simply called \"maskharas\" (मसख़रा or مسخره, an Arabic loanword in Hindustani, and a more general term for jester or buffoon) or \"bhands\", who are the traditional actors, dancers, storytellers and entertainers of the Indian subcontinent.\n\n"}
{"id": "4046303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4046303", "title": "Binchōtan", "text": "Binchōtan\n\nBinchō-tan (), also called white charcoal or binchō-zumi, is a type of charcoal traditionally used in Japanese cooking. Its use dates to the Edo period, when during the Genroku era, a craftsman named Bichū-ya Chōzaemon () began to produce it in Tanabe, Wakayama. The raw material is oak, specifically \"\" (\"Quercus phillyraeoides\"), now the official tree of Wakayama Prefecture. Wakayama continues to be a major producer of high-quality charcoal, with the town of Minabe, Wakayama producing more binchō-tan than any other town in Japan. Binchōtan is a type of lump charcoal or hardwood charcoal.\n\nThe fineness and high quality of binchō-tan are attributed to steaming at high temperatures (about 1000 degrees Celsius). Because it does not release unpleasant odours, it is a favorite of \"unagi\" (freshwater eel) and \"yakitori\" (skewered chicken) cooks. Due to difficulties in identifying the producing region, the name \"binchō-tan\" has come into broader use to designate white charcoal generally, and even products from outside Japan, as well as those made of other species, have come to use the name.\n\nTo differentiate the aforementioned \"non-pure\" products, there is a movement to call binchō-tan produced in Wakayama \"Kishū binchō-tan\" (), Kishū being the old name of Wakayama.\n\nBinchō-tan is harder than black charcoal, and rings with a metallic sound when struck. Wind chimes and a musical instrument, the \"tankin\" (\"charcoal-xylophone\") have been made from it.\n\n"}
{"id": "7897992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7897992", "title": "Brudet", "text": "Brudet\n\nBrudet, brodet or brodeto is a fish stew made in Croatian regions of Dalmatia, Kvarner and Istria, as well as along the coast of Montenegro. It consists of several types of fish, and the most important aspect of brudet is its simplicity of preparation and the fact that it is always prepared in a single pot. It is usually served with polenta which soaks up the fish broth, while other recipes serve it with potatoes or bread. A similar dish from Corfu is known as Bourdeto.\n\n"}
{"id": "31615301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31615301", "title": "Carabinieri Art Squad", "text": "Carabinieri Art Squad\n\nThe Carabinieri Command for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, better known as the Carabinieri T.P.C., is the branch of the Italian Carabinieri responsible for combatting art and antiquities crimes.\n\n\"Il Nucleo Tutela Patrimonio Artistico\" was founded by General Arnaldo Ferrara on 3 May 1969. It was the first specialist police force in the world in this sector, predating the UNESCO Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property of 1970. On 5 March 1992 the force was renamed \"Comando Carabinieri per la Tutela del Patrimonio Culturale\".\n\nThe force has four sections: archaeology, antique dealing, fakes, and contemporary art. It is led by a colonel and headquartered in Rome, with twelve regional offices. It functions in coordination with the \"Ministero per i Beni e le Attività Culturali\".\n\nThe force investigates clandestine excavations, the theft and illicit trade in works of art, damage to monuments and archaeological zones, the illegal export of cultural property, and fakes. It is involved in the monitoring and control of archaeological sites, and the activities of art and antique dealers, junk shops, and restorers. The force is also involved in forensic analysis; the development and promotion of educational materials; advising overseas ministries, police forces and customs bodies; international peacekeeping missions; and the protection and recovery of cultural property in disaster zones.\n\nThe force works internationally with organisations including UNESCO, UNIDROIT, ICOMOS, ICOM, and INTERPOL. Domestically it works in partnership with a number of universities, cultural foundations, and research centres, including ICCROM, as well as the local \"soprintendenze\" and ecclesiastical bodies.\n\nThe force maintains a database of stolen works. As of 1 March 2011, some 5,290 missing items were listed as having particular economic or cultural value. It also publishes a Bulletin of Trafficked Art Works, 2010 seeing the 32nd annual issue.\n\nIn 2009 some 39,584 looted antiquities and 19,043 other works were recovered, valued at €165 million. In 2008 works valued at €183 million were recovered. Improved international collaboration, site security, and databases saw a drop of 14.5% in stolen Italian works between the two years, while the number of illegal archaeological excavations discovered fell from 238 in 2008 to 58 in 2009. In 2009 137 items relating to the Medici case were returned from Switzerland, recovered from the Zurich-based restorers Fritz Burki & Son, who had worked on the Euphronios krater. These items included statues, pottery, and a first-century AD fresco. A further 300 items were still being sought in cooperation with Swiss authorities. In 2010 a statue of Zeus was recovered that had been stolen from the Museo Nazionale Romano in 1980. The force has also been active in Iraq, surveying sites at risk, providing training, developing systems, and helping to recover 2,971 objects illicitly trafficked since 1990.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45118082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45118082", "title": "Castaing machine", "text": "Castaing machine\n\nThe Castaing machine is a device used to add lettering and decoration to the edge of a coin. Such lettering was necessitated by counterfeiting and edge clipping, which was a common problem resulting from the uneven and irregular hammered coinage. When Aubin Olivier introduced milled coinage to France, he also developed a method of marking the edges with lettering which would make it possible to detect if metal had been shaved from the edge. This method involved using a collar, into which the metal flowed from the pressure of the press. This technique was slower and more costly than later methods. France abandoned milled coinage in favour of hammering in 1585.\n\nEngland experimented briefly with milled coinage, but it wasn't until Peter Blondeau brought his method of minting coins there in the mid-seventeenth century that such coinage began in earnest in that country. Blondeau also invented a different method of marking the edge, which was, according to him, faster and less costly than the method pioneered by Olivier. Though Blondeau's exact method was secretive, numismatists have asserted that it likely resembled the later device invented by Jean Castaing. Castaing's machine marked the edges by means of two steel rulers, which, when a coinage blank was forced between them, imprinted legends or designs on its edge. Castaing's device found favour in France, and it was eventually adopted in other nations, including Britain and the United States, but it was eventually phased out by mechanised minting techniques.\n\nPrior to the introduction of milled coinage, hammered coinage, which resulted in a relatively crude product of irregular shape and size, predominated in European mints. In , an Augsburg goldsmith named Max Schwab created a new technique for striking coins, which included the use of rolling mills, presses to cut the coinage blanks and the coinage press. After learning about the invention via the French ambassador, King Henry II dispatched the Comptroller of Finance Guillaume de Marillac and François Guilhem, Master of the Mint in Lyon, to observe the machinery. Schwab's press was turned with a weighted wooden handle, which exerted even pressure across the coinage blank, creating a sharper and more precise strike than hammering. De Marillac requested that Anne de Montmorency send him an engineer capable of creating a similar machine; he sent the engineer Aubin Olivier. Olivier viewed the machine, and introduced his own version to France, to which he later added a segmented collar. This allowed for the expanding metal to fill the collar, creating reeding, designs or edge lettering at the same time as the obverse and reverse images were struck onto the coin. The segments of the collar were then removed, and the coin ejected. Such lettering was used to aid in detecting coins which were debased by clipping metal from their edges, a problem frequently encountered in hammered coinage. Olivier's method of striking coins was considered costly relative to the previously utilised method, as the upper coinage die often came into contact with the collar on its downward descent, causing expensive damage. Milled coinage was thus abandoned in 1585 in favour of hammering.\n\nEloy Mestrelle introduced milled coinage to England in 1561, but their production ceased in 1575. On 8 August 1649, the Council of State and the House of Commons opted to summon Peter Blondeau, a Paris Mint engineer, to London to modernise operations at the Tower Mint. Mint officials opposed Blondeau's techniques, and subjected him to a series of trials in which the quality of his product would be compared to that made by the Mint. According to a pamphlet published in Blondeau's name, his process is described as \"a new invention, to make a handsome coyne ... that shall not only be stamped flat on both sides, but shall even be marked with letters on the thickness of the brim,\" which was intended to prevent clipping. Blondeau described, in a proposition presumably meant for the Committee of the Mint, \"two different ways to make the pieces marked about the thicknesse or edge. One is auncient, knowne to severall men, and according whereunto David Ramage [the man whom the Mint had selected to create hammered coinage in competition to Blondeau's], workeman of the Mint, hath made some bigg pieces; but that way is very tedious, requireth much time, spoyles abondance of stamps and engines, and cannot be done upon the currant money, which is thynne.\" Blondeau was referring to the type of collar added to the Paris Mint's early coinage presses by Olivier, which were time-consuming to use and caused significant damage to coinage dies and engines. He went on to say \"[a]s touching the new way, which is ready and expeditious, and can be based upon the thynne and currant money, I am the inventor of it, and only I know itt, as I can make appeare by experiences, if it be the pleasure of the State to imploy me.\" Blondeau also argued that his methods would prevent counterfeiting, because the machinery required was too complex to be duplicated by criminals.\n\nFollowing his swearing in as Lord Protector in 1653, Oliver Cromwell became a proponent of Blondeau's coinage method, which had yet to find favour in the nation's minting establishment. In 1654, Cromwell's government placed Blondeau in charge of a planned mint in Ireland, where the coinage was heavily debased by fraudulent means. The proposed mint never came into existence, but in 1656, Blondeau was given official appointment to strike £2,000 worth of coins bearing Cromwell's portrait with captured Spanish silver. The former Royal Mint superintendent, William John Hocking, believed that the edge lettering on Blondeau's coinage was created by means of a perforated steel strip, through which the coin's metal flowed during striking, creating the raised designs and wording. Hocking suggested that this technique would have been less costly than the older method involving the split collar, because the steel strip could be replaced more economically. However, the numismatist Peter B. Gaspar determined that Blondeau's Cromwell-era coinage was struck without a collar, which suggests that he used a machine to impart the edge lettering prior to striking.\n\nBlondeau returned to France following Cromwell's death, but he was summoned to return to London in 1661 following an order from King Charles II to modernise operations at the Mint. He received a contract from the Mint, which he fulfilled until his death in 1672, to work as an engineer for tools, to instruct moneyers, and to conduct his edge lettering process. In his diary, the Member of Parliament Samuel Pepys remarked upon the secrecy maintained by Blondeau regarding this process, stating that coiners at the Mint \"mark the letters on the edges, which is kept as the great secret by Blondeau.\"\n\nThough production of hammered coinage ceased in France in 1645, edge lettering wasn't immediately reintroduced to that nation's milled coinage. At some point prior to 1679, Jean Castaing, a French engineer, invented a machine to apply edge lettering to coins, and in 1685, he approached the French government with a proposal to use his machine in that nation's mints. King Louis XIV favoured the invention, but his financial minister, Jean-Baptiste Colbert, believed that it would not be economically viable to pay the expenses required to put it into use. In 1686, over Colbert's objection, the French Council of State entered a contract with Castaing wherein all of the nation's gold and silver coinage would include edge lettering created by his machine.\n\nTwo years later, in 1688, in response to counterfeiting and to raise money to support the Nine Years' War, Castaing proposed a method of reshaping and restriking existing coins, which was ultimately accepted. Castaing's edge lettering machine was used on the overstruck coins, and the Royal Mint supervisor Martin Masselin, the individual who undertook the process, was obligated to pay Castaing for its use. In 1691, Masselin was dismissed, as he and his clerks were found to have stolen from the Mint during the reformation of the coinage, and Castaing was appointed to perform the edge lettering and restriking in his place. A second reform took place in 1693. Castaing was imprisoned in 1700 on charges of using inaccurate scales to weigh the coins to be reminted; according to his wife, Marie Hippolyte Castaing (née Bosch), the allegations were false, originating from opponents who lost money as a result of his machine's introduction to the French Mint and the resulting monetary reforms.\n\nAccording to the engineer and numismatist George E. Ewing, Jr., Castaing's machine was likely similar to that used by Blondeau in England, but \"Castaing's improvements made his machine worthy of being called an invention.\"\n\nAn 1819 account described the operation of Castaing's machine: \n\nAccording to a 1765 \"Encyclopédie\" entry, Castaing's machine was capable of applying the edge lettering to 20,000 coins daily.\n\nThe machine came into use at various mints throughout the world as a way to improve upon the existing machinery used for edge lettering. A copy of Castaing's machine was put into use at the British Royal Mint, and in 1792, the director of the newly established United States Mint in Philadelphia, David Rittenhouse, ordered three coinage presses from England \nto which he added a modified version of the machine. This became obsolete following Franklin Peale's introduction of steam-powered equipment to the Mint in 1836. Castaing's machine was replaced at the Paris Mint in 1803, when one of the Mint's engineers, Philippe Gengembre, created his own version.\n\n\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "29564123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29564123", "title": "Chord Board", "text": "Chord Board\n\nThe Chord Board is a color-coded slide rule that displays the notes necessary to form or transpose chords in music.\nThe multi-colored chart is a 2-octave piano keyboard with numbered note positions ~ and a center slide that displays the notes.\nCreated on the island of Oahu, Hawaii and registered in 1979 by Martin H. Samuel, the original Chord Board was printed by Datalizer of Addison, IL. As a practical means of reference, the Chord Board is popular with musicians, singers, songwriters, choirs, composers and arrangers.\n\nPierre Bernard, of Houdah Software in Luxembourg, programmed and published the Chord Board Slide Rule iPhone / iPod Touch App. (that displays and plays the notes and chords) in English in 2010 and in German in 2011.\n\nThe Chord Board App. may be used as a guitar, banjo, ukulele, bass, violin, viola or cello electronic tuner.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1669396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1669396", "title": "Chrestomathy", "text": "Chrestomathy\n\nChrestomathy ( ; from the Ancient Greek “desire of learning” = ' “useful” + ' “learn”) is a collection of selected literary passages (usually from a single author); a selection of literary passages from a foreign language assembled for studying the language; or a text in various languages, used especially as an aid in learning a subject.\n\nIn philology or in the study of literature, it is a type of reader which presents a sequence of example texts, selected to demonstrate the development of language or literary style. It is different from an anthology because of its didactic purpose. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "236918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236918", "title": "Concert", "text": "Concert\n\nA concert is a live music performance in front of an audience. The performance may be by a single musician, sometimes then called a recital, or by a musical ensemble, such as an orchestra, choir, or band. Concerts are held in a wide variety and size of settings, from private houses and small nightclubs, dedicated concert halls, arenas and parks to large multipurpose buildings, and even sports stadiums. Indoor concerts held in the largest venues are sometimes called \"arena concerts\" or \"amphitheatre concerts\". Informal names for a concert include \"show\" and \"gig\".\n\nRegardless of the venue, musicians usually perform on a stage. Concerts often require live event support with professional audio equipment. Before recorded music, concerts provided the main opportunity to hear musicians play. \n\nThe nature of a concert varies by musical genre, individual performers, and the venue. Concerts by a small jazz combo or small bluegrass band may have the same order of program, mood, and volume—but vary in music and dress. In a similar way, a particular musician, band, or genre of music might attract concert attendees with similar dress, hairstyle, and behavior. For example, concert goers in the 1960s often had long hair (sometimes in dread lock form), sandals and inexpensive clothing made of natural fibers. Regular attendees to a concert venue might also have a recognizable style that comprises that venue's scene.\n\nA recital is a concert by a soloist or small group which follows a program. It can highlight a single performer, sometimes accompanied by piano, or a performance of the works of a single composer, or a single instrument (organ recital). The invention of the solo piano recital has been attributed to Franz Liszt. Also, a recital may have many participants, as for a dance recital. A dance recital is a presentation of choreographed moves for an audience, usually in an established performing arts venue, possibly competitively. Some dance recitals are seasonal.\n\nSome performers or groups put on very elaborate and expensive shows. To create a memorable and exciting atmosphere and increase the spectacle, performers frequently include additional entertainment devices. These can include elaborate stage lighting, electronic imagery via (IMAG) system and/or pre-recorded video, inflatable sets, artwork or other set pieces, various special effects such as theatrical smoke and fog and pyrotechnics, and unusual costumes or wardrobe. Some singers, especially popular music, augment concert sound with pre-recorded accompaniment, back-up dancers, and even broadcast vocal tracks of the singer's own voice. Activities during these concerts can include dancing, sing-alongs, and moshing. Performers known for including these elements in their performances include: Pink Floyd, The Flaming Lips, Cher, Prince, Alice Cooper, Iron Maiden, Daft Punk, Lady Gaga, Jean Michel Jarre, Sarah Brightman, KISS, Gwar, Slipknot, and Madonna.\n\nConcerts involving a greater number of artists, especially those that last for multiple days, are known as festivals. Unlike other concerts, which typically remain in a single genre of music or work of a particular artist, festivals often cover a broad scope of music and arts. Due to their size, festivals are almost exclusively held outdoors. New platforms for festivals are becoming increasingly popular such as Jam Cruise, which is a festival held on a cruise ship, as well as Mayan Holidaze, which is a destination festival held in Tulum. A few examples of the hundreds of festivals around the world include: \n\nA concert tour is a series of concerts by an artist or group of artists in different cities, countries or locations. Often concert tours are named, to differentiate different tours by the same artist and associate a specific tour with a particular album or product (for example Ariana Grande: Dangerous Woman Tour). Especially in the popular music world, such tours can become large-scale enterprises that last for several months or even years, are seen by hundreds of thousands or millions of people, and bring in millions of dollars (or the equivalent) in ticket revenues.\n\nA concert residency or musical residency is a series of live music concerts similar to a concert tour, but only performed at one location.\n\nWhile admission to some concerts is free, it is common practice to charge money for concerts by selling admission tickets. Before the advent of recorded-music sales and mechanical royalties in the early 20th century, concerts were the primary source of revenue for musicians. Revenue from ticket sales typically goes to the performing artists, producers, venue, organizers and the brokers. In the case of benefit concerts, a portion of profits often go towards a charitable organization.\n\nAdditional revenue is also often raised through in-concert advertising, from free local concerts for local sponsorships to sponsorships from corporations during major tours 2009's \"Vans' Warped Tour Presented by AT&T\". Both Vans and AT&T would have paid significant amounts to have their company names included at the forefront in all marketing material for the Warped Tour.\n\nConcessions and merchandise are also often sold during and after concerts; often by the venue in the case of the former, and by the performing band or artist in the case of the latter.\n\n, Italian singer Vasco Rossi holds the record for the biggest attendance of a ticketed concert with a total of 220,000 tickets sold for his show at Enzo Ferrari Park, Modena, Italy on 1 July 2017. The record was previously held by Paul McCartney's 1990 concert with a paying audience of 185,000 in Maracanã Stadium, Rio de Janeiro. Rod Stewart also holds the record for the biggest attendance in a free concert, with an estimated audience of 3.5 million during his 1994 New Year's Eve concert in Copacabana Beach, Rio de Janeiro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "463477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463477", "title": "Constitution of 3 May 1791", "text": "Constitution of 3 May 1791\n\nThe Constitution of 3 May 1791 (, ) was adopted by the Great Sejm (parliament) of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, a dual monarchy comprising the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Drafted over 32 months beginning on 6 October 1788, and formally adopted as the Government Act (\"Ustawa rządowa\"), the legislation was designed to redress the Commonwealth's political defects. The system of Golden Freedoms, also known as the \"Nobles' Democracy,\" had conferred disproportionate rights on the nobility (\"szlachta\") and over time had corrupted politics. The adoption of the Constitution was preceded by a period of agitation forand gradual introduction ofreforms beginning with the Convocation Sejm of 1764 and the election of Stanisław August Poniatowski as the Commonwealth's last king.\n\nThe constitution sought to supplant the prevailing anarchy fostered by some of the country's magnates with a more democratic constitutional monarchy. It introduced elements of political equality between townspeople and nobility, and placed the peasants under the protection of the government, thus mitigating the worst abuses of serfdom. It banned parliamentary institutions such as the \"liberum veto\", which had put the Sejm at the mercy of any deputy, who could unilaterally revoke all the legislation that had been passed by that Sejm. The Commonwealth's neighbours reacted with hostility to the adoption of the constitution. Frederick William II's Kingdom of Prussia broke its alliance with the Commonwealth, which was attacked and then defeated in the War in Defence of the Constitution by an alliance between Catherine the Great's Imperial Russia and the Targowica Confederation of anti-reform Polish magnates and landless nobility. The King, a principal co-author, eventually capitulated to the Confederates.\n\nThe constitutional procedures of the 1791 legislation were formally performed, consistently with its Articles I-XI (and their Preamble), for less than 19 months. The constitution's legal force was confirmed by the content of the Proclamation of Polaniec in 1794, referring to the Constitution's Articles (particularly Article IV). The Proclamation of Polaniec is attributable to Tadeusz Kościuszko. It was issued during the Kościuszko Uprising. The Grodno Sejm declared the Constitution of 3 May as annulled, but its legal power to do so was questionable on the basis of Article VI of the Constitution of 3 May, which permitted its cancellation only after 25 years from its enactment. The legal and historians' perceptions of the implications of the enactment of the Constitution in 1791, relating to its legal force, remain undemarcated. By 1795, the Second and Third Partitions of Poland ended the existence of the sovereign Polish state. Over the next 123 years, the Constitution of 3 May 1791, was seen as proof of successful internal reform and as a symbol promising the eventual restoration of Poland's sovereignty. The first draft of the Constitution was developed in secrecy, with contribution of several co-authors, including, among others, the king Stanislaw August Poniatowski, Stanisław Staszic, Scipione Piattoli and potentially Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz. In the words of two of its main co-authors, Ignacy Potocki and Hugo Kołłątaj, it was \"the last will and testament of the expiring Country.\" \n\nBritish historian Norman Davies described the legislation as \"the first constitution of its type in Europe\". The Constitution of 3 May 1791 was the first to combine the clear division of the executive, legislative and judiciary powers with the monarchic republic legal order. It was drafted in relation to a copy of the U.S. Constitution. However, it does not mean that the Constitution of 3 May was not original. None of the content of the U.S. Constitution Articles was directly paraphrased or otherwise recalled under the Constitution of 3 May. Consistently with the U.S. Constitution, some background features, such as the order of the governmental Articles firstly distinguished the legislative power (Article VI), next the executive power (Article VII), and the judiciary power (Article VIII), with independent judges to be elected in small constituencies. Others have called it the world's second-oldest codified national governmental constitution after the 1787 U.S. Constitution; the U.S. Constitution was the first governmental constitution introducing a clear division of the executive, legislative and judiciary powers, accordingly with the legal and philosophical values influential in the Enlightenment.\n\nPolish constitutionalism can be traced to the 13th century, when government by consensus and representation was already well established in the young Polish state. The emergence of parliamentary bodies, the sejm and sejmiki, followed. By the 17th century, Poland's legal and political tradition was characterized by: parliamentary institutions and a system of checks and balances on state power, which was itself limited by decentralization; the idea of a contractual state, embodied in texts like the Henrician Articles and the \"Pacta conventa\"; the concept of individual liberties; and the notion that the monarch owed duties to his subjects. This system, which primarily benefited the Polish nobility (szlachta), came to be known as the \"nobles' democracy.\"\n\nThe 1791 Constitution was a response to the increasingly perilous situation in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, which had been a major European power only a century earlier and was still the largest state on the continent. In the 1590s, at the peak of the nobles' democracy, King Sigismund III Vasa's court preacherthe Jesuit Piotr Skargahad condemned the weaknesses of the Commonwealth. In the same period, writers and philosophers such as Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski and Wawrzyniec Grzymała Goślicki, and the \"egzekucja praw\" (Execution-of-the-Laws) reform movement led by Jan Zamoyski had advocated political reforms. In 1656, Sigismund's son King John II Casimir Vasa made a solemn vow at the 'old' Lvov Cathedral on behalf of the entire Republic of Poland, that he would free the Polish peasants \"from their unjust burdens and oppression.\" As he was struggling with the Sejm, in 1661 John Casimirwhose reign saw highly destructive wars and obstructionism by the nobilitycorrectly predicted that the Commonwealth was in danger of a partition by Russia, Brandenburg and Austria.\n\nAs the Sejm failed to implement sufficient reforms, the state machinery became increasingly dysfunctional. A major cause of the Commonwealth's downfall was the \"liberum veto\" (\"free veto\"), which since 1652 had allowed any Sejm deputy to nullify all the legislation enacted by that Sejm. As a result, deputies bribed by magnates or foreign powersprimarily from the Russian Empire, the Kingdom of Prussia and Franceor deputies who believed they were living in an unprecedented \"Golden Age\" paralysed the Commonwealth's government for over a century. The threat of the \"liberum veto\" could only be overridden by the establishment of a \"confederated sejm\", which was immune to the \"liberum veto\". Declaring that a sejm either constituted a \"confederation\" or belonged to one was a contrivance prominently used by foreign interests in the 18th century to force a legislative outcome.\n\nBy the early 18th century, the magnates of Poland and Lithuania controlled the state, ensuring that no reforms that might weaken their privileged status (the \"Golden Freedoms\") would be enacted. The ineffective monarchs who were elected to the Commonwealth throne in the early 18th century, Augustus II the Strong and Augustus III of Poland of the House of Wettin, did not improve matters. The Wettins, used to the absolute rule practiced in their native Saxony, tried to govern through intimidation and the use of force, which led to a series of conflicts between their supporters and opponentsincluding another pretender to the Polish throne, King Stanisław Leszczyński. Those conflicts often took the form of confederationslegal rebellions against the king permitted under the Golden Freedomsincluding the Warsaw Confederation (1704), Sandomierz Confederation, Tarnogród Confederation, Dzików Confederation and the War of the Polish Succession. Only 8 out of 18 Sejm sessions during the reign of Augustus II (1694–1733) passed legislation. For 30 years during the reign of Augustus III, only one session was able to pass legislation. The government was near collapse, giving rise to the term \"Polish anarchy\", and the country was managed by provincial assemblies and magnates.\n\nOther reform attempts in the Wettin era were led by individuals such as Stanisław Dunin-Karwicki, Stanisław A. Szczuka, Kazimierz Karwowski and Michał Józef Massalski; these mostly proved to be futile.\n\nThe Enlightenment greatly affected the thinking of influential Commonwealth circles during the reign (1764–95) of its last king, Stanisław II August Poniatowski. The King was an \"enlightened\" Polish magnate who had been a deputy to several Sejms between 1750 and 1764 and had a deeper understanding of Polish politics than previous monarchs. The Convocation Sejm of 1764, which elected Poniatowski to the throne, was controlled by the reformist Czartoryski \"Familia\" and was backed by Russian military forces invitied by the Czartoryskis. In exchange for passing decrees favorable to them, the Russians and Prussians let the confederated Convocation Sejm enact a number of reforms, including the weakening of the \"liberum veto\" and its no longer applying to treasury and economic matters. A more comprehensive reform package was presented by Andrzej Zamoyski, but opposition from Prussia, Russia, and the Polish nobility thwarted this ambitious program, which had proposed deciding all motions by majority vote.\n\nIn part because his election had been imposed by Empress Catherine the Great, Poniatowski's political position was weak from the start. He proceeded with cautious reforms, such as the establishment of fiscal and military ministries and the introduction of a national customs tariff, which was soon abandoned due to opposition from Prussia's Frederick the Great. These measures had already been authorized by the Convocation Sejm; more legislative and executive improvements inspired by the \"Familia\" or the King were implemented during and after the 1764 Sejm.\n\nThe Commonwealth's magnates viewed reform with suspicion and neighboring powers, content with the deterioration of the Commonwealth, abhorred the thought of a resurgent and democratic power on their borders. With the Commonwealth Army reduced to around 16,000, it was easy for its neighbors to intervene directlythe Imperial Russian Army numbered 300,000 and the Prussian Army and Imperial Austrian Army had 200,000 each.\n\nRussia's Empress Catherine and Prussia's King Frederick II provoked a conflict between members of the Sejm and the King over civil rights for religious minorities, such as Protestants and Greek Orthodox whose positions, which were guaranteed equal with the Catholic majority by the Warsaw Confederation of 1573, had worsened considerably. Catherine and Frederick declared their support for the \"szlachta\" and their \"liberties\", and by October 1767 Russian troops had assembled outside Warsaw in support of the conservative Radom Confederation. The King and his adherents had little choice but to acquiesce to Russian demands. During the Repnin Sejm (named after the unofficially presiding Russian ambassador Nicholas Repnin) the King accepted the five \"eternal and invariable principles\" which Catherine had vowed to \"protect for all time to come in the name of Poland's liberties\": the election of kings, the right of \"liberum veto\", the right to renounce allegiance to and raise rebellion against the king (\"rokosz\"), the \"szlachta\" exclusive right to hold office and land, and landowners' power over their peasants. Thus all the privileges (\"Golden Freedoms\") of the nobility that had made the Commonwealth ungovernable were guaranteed as unalterable in the Cardinal Laws. The Cardinal Laws and the rights of \"religious dissenters\" passed by the Repnin Sejm were personally guaranteed by Empress Catherine. By these acts of legislation, for the first time, Russia formally intervened in the Commonwealth's constitutional affairs.\n\nDuring the 1768 Sejm, Repnin showed his disregard for local resistance by arranging the abduction and imprisonment of Kajetan Sołtyk, Józef A. Załuski, Wacław Rzewuski and Seweryn Rzewuski, all vocal opponents of foreign domination and the recently proclaimed policies. The Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth had legally and practically become a protectorate of the Russian Empire. Nonetheless, several minor beneficial reforms were adopted, political rights of the religious minorities were restored and the need for more reforms was becoming increasingly recognized.\n\nKing Stanisław August's acquiescence to the Russian intervention encountered some opposition. On 29 February 1768, several magnatesincluding Józef Pułaski and his young son Kazimierz Pułaski (Casimir Pulaski)vowing to oppose Russian influence, declared Stanisław August a lackey of Russia and Catherine, and formed a confederation at the town of Bar. The Bar Confederation focused on limiting the influence of foreigners in Commonwealth affairs, and being pro-Catholic was generally opposed to religious tolerance. It began a civil war to overthrow the King, but its irregular forces were overwhelmed by Russian intervention in 1772.\n\nThe defeat of the Bar Confederation set the scene for the partition treaty of 5 August 1772, which was signed at Saint Petersburg by Russia, Prussia and Austria. The treaty divested the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth of about a third of its territory and populationover and 4 million people. The three powers justified their annexation, citing anarchy in the Commonwealth and its refusal to cooperate with its neighbors' efforts to restore order. King Stanisław August yielded and on 19 April 1773, he called the Sejm into session. Only 102 of about 200 deputies attended what became known as the Partition Sejm. The rest were aware of the King's decision and refused. Despite protests from the deputy Tadeusz Rejtan and others, the treatylater known as the First Partition of Polandwas ratified.\n\nThe first of the three successive 18th-century partitions of Commonwealth territory that would eventually remove Poland's sovereignty shocked the Commonwealth's inhabitants and made it clear to progressive minds that the Commonwealth must either reform or perish. In the thirty years before the Constitution, there was a rising interest among progressive thinkers in constitutional reform. Before the First Partition, a Polish noble, Michał Wielhorski was sent to France by the Bar Confederation to ask the \"philosophes\" Gabriel Bonnot de Mably and Jean-Jacques Rousseau for their suggestions on a new constitution for a reformed Poland. Mably submitted his recommendations \"Du gouvernement et des lois en Pologne\" (\"The Government and Laws of Poland\") in 1770–71, whereas Rousseau finished his \"Considerations on the Government of Poland\" in 1772 when the First Partition was already underway. Works advocating the need for reform and presenting specific solutions were published in the Commonwealth by Polish–Lithuanian thinkers: \"On an Effective Way of Councils or on the Conduct of Ordinary Sejms\" (1761–63), by Stanisław Konarski, founder of the Collegium Nobilium; \"Political Thoughts on Civil Liberties\" (1775) and \"Patriotic Letters\" (1778–78), by Józef Wybicki, author of the lyrics of the Polish National Anthem; (\"Anonymous Letters to Stanisław Małachowski\" (1788–89) and \"The Political Law of the Polish Nation\" (1790), by Hugo Kołłątaj, head of the Kołłątaj's Forge party; and \"Remarks on the Life of Jan Zamoyski\" (1787), by Stanisław Staszic. Ignacy Krasicki's satires of the Great Sejm era were also seen as crucial to giving the constitution moral and political support.\n\nA new wave of reforms supported by progressive magnates such as the Czartoryski family and King Stanisław August were introduced at the Partition Sejm. The most important included the 1773 establishment of the Commission of National Education (\"Komisja Edukacji Narodowej\")the first ministry of education in the world. New schools were opened, uniform textbooks were printed, teachers received better education and poor students were provided with scholarships. The Commonwealth's military was to be modernized and funding to create a larger standing army was agreed. Economic and commercial reformsincluding some intended to cover the increased military budget previously shunned as unimportant by the \"szlachta\"were introduced. A new executive assembly, the 36-strong Permanent Council comprising five ministries with limited legislative powers, was established, giving the Commonwealth a governing body in constant session between Sejms and therefore immune to their \"liberum veto\" disruptions.\n\nIn 1776, the Sejm commissioned former chancellor Andrzej Zamoyski to draft a new legal code. By 1780, he and his collaborators had produced the Zamoyski Code (\"Zbiór praw sądowych\"). It would have strengthened royal power, made all officials answerable to the Sejm, placed the clergy and their finances under state supervision, and deprived landless \"szlachta\" of many of their legal immunities. The Code would also have improved the situation of non-noblestownspeople and peasants. Zamoyski's progressive legal code, containing elements of constitutional reform, met with opposition from native conservative \"szlachta\" and foreign powers; the 1780 Sejm did not adopt it.\n\nAn opportunity for reform occurred during the \"Great Sejm\"also called the \"Four-Year Sejm\"of 1788–92, which began on 6 October 1788 with 181 deputies. In accordance with the Constitution's preamble, from 1790 it met \"in dual number\" when 171 newly elected deputies joined the earlier-established Sejm. On its second day, the body became a confederated sejm to avoid the \"liberum veto\". Concurrent world events appeared to have been opportune for the reformers. Russia and Austria were at war with the Ottoman Empire, and the Russians found themselves simultaneously fighting in the Russo-Swedish War, 1788–1790. A new alliance between the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and Prussia seemed to provide security against Russian intervention, and King Stanisław August drew closer to leaders of the reform-minded Patriotic Party.\n\nThe Sejm passed few major reforms in its first two years, but the subsequent two years brought more substantial changes. The Sejm adopted the 1791 Free Royal Cities Act, which was formally incorporated into the final constitution. This act addressed a number of matters related to the cities, crucially expanding burghers' (i.e., townspeople's) rights, including electoral rights. While the Sejm comprised representatives of the nobility and clergy, the reformers were supported by the burghers, who in late 1789 organized in Warsaw a \"Black Procession\" demanding full political enfranchisement of the bourgeoisie. On 18 April 1791 the Sejmfearing that the burghers' protests, if ignored, could turn violent, as they had in France not long beforeadopted the Free Royal Cities Act.\n\nThe new constitution was drafted by the King, with contributions from Ignacy Potocki, Hugo Kołłątaj and others. The King is credited with writing the general provisions and Kołłątaj with giving the document its final shape. Stanisław August wanted the Commonwealth to become a constitutional monarchy similar to that of Great Britain, with a strong central government based on a strong monarch. Potocki wanted the \"Sejm\" to be the strongest branch of government. Kołłątaj wanted a \"gentle\" revolution, carried out without violence, to enfranchise other social classes in addition to the nobility.\n\nThe proposed reforms were opposed by the conservatives, including the Hetmans' Party. Threatened with violence by their opponents, the advocates of the draft began the debate on the Government Act two days early, while many opposing deputies were away on Easter recess. The debate and subsequent adoption of the Government Act was executed as a quasi-\"coup d'état\". No recall notices were sent to known opponents of reform, while many pro-reform deputies secretly returned early. The royal guard under the command of the King's nephew Prince Józef Poniatowski were positioned about the Royal Castle, where the Sejm was gathered, to prevent opponents from disrupting the proceedings. On 3 May, the Sejm convened with only 182 members, about half its \"dual\" number. The bill was read and overwhelmingly adopted, to the enthusiasm of the crowds outside. A protest was submitted the next day by a small group of deputies, but on 5 May the matter was officially concluded and protests were invalidated by the Constitutional Deputation of the Sejm. It was the first time in the 18th century that a constitutional act had been passed in the Commonwealth without the involvement of foreign powers.\n\nSoon after, the Friends of the Constitution (\"Zgromadzenie Przyjaciół Konstytucji Rządowej\")which included many participants in the Great Sejmwas organised to defend the reforms already enacted and to promote further ones. It is now regarded as the first modern-style political party in Poland's history. The response to the new constitution was less enthusiastic in the provinces, where the Hetmans' Party enjoyed considerable influence. General support among the middle nobility was crucial and still very substantial; most of the provincial \"sejmiks\" deliberating in 1791 and early 1792 supported the constitution.\n\nThe Polish-Lithuanian constitution was one of several to reflect Enlightenment influences, in particular Rousseau's social contract and Montesquieu's advocacy of a separation and balance of powers between the three branches of government and his advocacy of a bicameral legislature. Once the government was established, it aimed to ensure, in accordance with Article V, that \"the integrity of the states, civil liberty, and social order shall always remain in equilibrium.\" According to Polish-American historian Jacek Jędruch, the liberality of its provisions \"fell somewhere below [those of] the French, above the Canadian, and left the Prussian far behind,\" but did not equal the American Constitution.\" King Stanisław August Poniatowski was supposed to say that the new constitution was \"founded principally on those of England and the United States of America, but avoiding the faults and errors of both, and adapted as much as possible to the local and particular circumstances of the country.\" However, there exist no historical sources of original data to support this potential quotation, which suggests a possibility of lacking evidence. Polish historians usually recall a different potential quotation (lit. \"opartą w głównej mierze na konstytucji Stanów Zjednoczonych, lecz bez błędów w niej zawartych, zaadaptowaną do warunków panuiących w Polszcze\", with exact English meaning: \"principally based on the Constitution of the United States of America, but without included errors; adapted to conditions reigning in Poland\". George Sanford said that the Polish-Lithuanian constitution provided \"a constitutional monarchy close to the English model of the time.\"\n\nArticle I acknowledged the Roman Catholic faith as the \"dominant religion,\" and guaranteed tolerance and freedom to all religions. It was less progressive than the 16th-century Warsaw Confederation, and placed Poland clearly within the Catholic sphere of influence. Article II confirmed many old privileges of the nobility, stressing that all nobles are equal and should enjoy personal security and the right to property. Article III stipulated that the earlier Free Royal Cities Act (\"Miasta Nasze Królewskie Wolne w Państwach Rzeczypospolitej\") of 18 (or 21) April 1791, was integral to the constitution. Personal security\"neminem captivabimus\", the Polish \"habeas corpus\" actwas extended to townspeople (including Jews). Townspeople also gained the right to acquire landed property and became eligible for military officers' commissions and public offices, such as reserved seats in the Sejm and seats in the executive commissions of the Treasury, the Police and the Judiciary. Membership of the nobility was also made easier for burghers to acquire.\n\nWith half a million burghers in the Commonwealth now substantially enfranchised, political power became more equally distributed. Little power was give to the less politically conscious or active classes, such as Jews and peasants. Article IV placed the Commonwealth's peasantry under the protection of the national lawa first step toward enfranchising the country's largest and most oppressed social class. Their low status compared to other classes was not eliminated, as the constitution did not abolish serfdom. The Second Partition and Kościuszko's Proclamation of Połaniec in 1794 would later begin to abolish serfdom.\n\nArticle V stated that \"all power in civil society [should be] derived from the will of the people.\" The constitution referred to the country's \"citizens,\" which for the first time included townspeople and peasants. The document's preamble and 11 individual articles introduced the principle of popular sovereignty applied to the nobility and townspeople, and the separation of powers into legislative (a bicameral Sejm), executive (\"the King and the Guardians,\" the Guardians of the Laws being the newly established top governmental entity) and judicial branches. It advanced the democratization of the polity by limiting the excessive legal immunities and political prerogatives of landless nobility.\n\nLegislative power, as defined in Article VI, rested with the bicameral parliament (an elected Sejm and an appointed Senate) and the king. The Sejm met every two years, and when required by national emergency. Its lower chamberthe Chamber of Deputies (\"Izba Poselska\")had 204 deputies (2 from each \"powiat\", 68 each from the provinces of Greater Poland, Lesser Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania) and 21 plenipotentiaries from royal cities (7 from each province). The royal chancellery was to inform the \"sejmiks\" of the legislation it intended to propose in advance, so deputies could prepare for the discussions. The Sejm's upper chamberthe Chamber of Senators (\"Izba Senacka\")had between 130 and 132 (sources vary) senators (voivodes, castellans, and bishops, as well as governments ministers without the right to vote). The king presided over the Senate and had one vote, which could be used to break ties. The king and all deputies had legislative initiative, and most mattersknown as \"general laws\", and divided into constitutional, civil, criminal, and those for the institution of perpetual taxesrequired a simple majority, first from the lower chamber, then the upper. Specialized resolutions, including treaties of alliance, declarations of war and peace, ennoblements and increases in national debt, needed a majority of both chambers voting jointly. The Senate had a suspensive veto over laws that the Sejm passed, valid until the next Sejm session, when it could be overruled.\n\nArticle VI recognized the \"Prawo o sejmikach\", the act on regional assemblies (\"sejmiks\") passed on 24 March 1791. By reducing the enfranchisement of the noble classes, this law introduced major changes to the electoral ordinance. Previously, all nobles had been eligible to vote in \"sejmiks\", which \"de facto\" meant that many of the poorest, landless noblesknown as \"clients\" or \"clientele\" of local magnatesvoted as the magnates bade them. Now right to vote was tied to a property qualification: one had to own or lease land and pay taxes, or be closely related to somebody who did, to vote. 300,000 of 700,000 previously eligible nobles were thus disfranchised. Voting rights were restored to landowners in military service. They had lost these rights in 1775. Voting was limited to men aged at least 18. The eligible voters elected deputies to local \"powiat\"s, or county sejmiks, which elected deputies to the General Sejm.\n\nFinally, Article VI explicitly abolished several institutional sources of government weakness and national anarchy, including the \"liberum veto\", confederations and confederated sejms, and the excessive influence of sejmiks stemming from the previously binding nature of their instructions to their Sejm deputies. The confederations were declared \"contrary to the spirit of this constitution, subversive of government and destructive of society.\" Thus the new constitution strengthened the powers of the Sejm, moving the country towards a constitutional monarchy.\n\nExecutive power, according to Article V and Article VII, was in the hands of \"the King in his council,\" a cabinet of ministers that was called the Guardians of the Laws (or Guard of the Laws, \"Straż Praw\"). The ministries could not create or interpret laws, and all acts of the foreign ministry were provisional and subject to Sejm approval. The King presided over his council, which comprised the Roman Catholic Primate of Polandwho was also president of the Education Commissionand five ministers appointed by the King: a minister of police, a minister of the seal (internal affairs), a minister of foreign affairs, a minister \"belli\" (of war), and a minister of treasury. Council members also includedwithout a votethe Crown Prince, the Marshal of the Sejm, and two secretaries. This royal council descended from similar councils that had functioned since King Henry's Articles (1573), and from the recent Permanent Council. Acts of the King required the countersignature of the pertinent minister. A minister was required to countersign a law, unless all other ministers endorsed his objection to that law. In that case, the King could withdraw the law or press the issue by presenting it to parliament. The stipulation that the King, \"doing nothing of himself, ... shall be answerable for nothing to the nation,\" parallels the British constitutional principle that \"The King can do no wrong.\" (In both countries, the pertinent minister was responsible for the King's acts.) The ministers were responsible to the Sejm, which could dismiss them by a two-thirds vote of no confidence of both houses. Ministers could also be held accountable by the Sejm Court, where a simple-majority vote sufficed to impeach a minister. The King was the nation's commander-in-chief; there is no mention of \"hetman\"s (the previous highest-ranking military commanders). The King had the right to grant pardons, except in cases of treason. The royal council's decisions were implemented by commissions, whose members were elected by the Sejm.\n\nThe constitution changed the government from an elective to a hereditary monarchy. This provision was intended to reduce the destructive influence of foreign powers at each election. The royal dynasty was elective, and if one were to cease, a new family would be chosen by the nation. The king reigned by the \"grace of God and the will of the Nation,\" and \"all authority derives from the will of the Nation.\" The institution of pacta conventa was preserved. On Stanisław August's death the Polish throne would become hereditary and pass to Frederick Augustus I of Saxony of the House of Wettin, which had provided the two kings before Stanisław August. This provision was contingent upon Frederic Augustus' consent. He declined when Adam Czartoryski offered him the throne..\n\nDiscussed in Article VIII, the judiciary was separated from the two other branches of the government, and was to be served by elective judges. Courts of first instance existed in each voivodeship and were in constant session, with judges elected by the regional sejmik assemblies. Appellate tribunals were established for the provinces, based on the reformed Crown Tribunal and Lithuanian Tribunal. The Sejm elected from its deputies the judges for the Sejm Court, a precursor to the modern State Tribunal of Poland. Referendary courts were established in each province to hear the cases of the peasantry. Municipal courts, described in the law on towns, complemented this system.\n\nArticle IX covered procedures for regency, which should be taken up jointly by the council of the Guardians, headed by the Queen, or in her absence by the Primate. Article X stressed the importance of education of royal children and tasked the Commission of National Education with this responsibility. The last article of the constitution, Article XI, concerned the national standing army. Said army was defined as a \"defensive force\" dedicated \"solely to the nation's defense.\" The army was to be increased in strength to 100,000 men.\n\nTo further enhance the Commonwealth's integration and security, the constitution abolished the erstwhile union of Poland and Lithuania in favor of a unitary state. Its full establishment, supported by Stanisław August and Kołlątaj, was opposed by many Lithuanian deputies. As a compromise, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania received numerous privileges guaranteeing its continued existence. Related acts included the \"Deklaracja Stanów Zgromadzonych\" (Declaration of the Assembled Estates) of 5 May 1791, confirming the Government Act adopted two days earlier, and the \"Zaręczenie Wzajemne Obojga Narodów\" (Reciprocal Guarantee of Two Nations, i.e., of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania) of 22 October 1791, affirming the unity and indivisibility of Poland and the Grand Duchy within a single state and their equal representation in state-governing bodies. The Reciprocal Guarantee strengthened the Polish–Lithuanian union while keeping many federal aspects of the state intact.\n\nThe 3 May Constitution was translated into the Lithuanian language, marking a major change in the upper classes' thinking, and signalling efforts to modernize the State.\n\nThe Constitution was also published in English-, French-, and German-language editions.\n\nThe Constitution remained to the last a work in progress. The provisions of the Government Act were detailed in a number of laws passed in May and June 1791: on sejm courts (two acts of 13 May), the Guardians of the Laws (1 June), the national police commission (a ministry, 17 June) and municipal administration (24 June). The constitution included provisions for amendments, which were to be dealt with by an extraordinary Sejm held every 25 years. Its co-author Hugo Kołłątaj announced that work was underway on \"an economic constitution ... guaranteeing all rights of property [and] securing protection and honor to all manner of labor ...\" A third planned basic law was mentioned by Kołłątaj; a \"moral constitution,\" most likely a Polish analog to the United States Bill of Rights and the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. The constitution called for the preparation of a new civil and criminal code, tentatively called the Stanisław August Code. The King also planned a reform improving the situation of the Jews.\n\nThe constitutional formal procedures were performed for little over a year before being stopped by Russian armies allied with conservative Polish nobility in the Polish–Russian War of 1792, also known as the War in Defense of the Constitution. With the wars between Turkey and Russia and Sweden and Russia having ended, Empress Catherine was furious over the adoption of the document, which she believed threatened Russian influence in Poland. Russia had viewed Poland as a \"de facto\" protectorate. \"The worst possible news have arrived from Warsaw: the Polish king has become almost sovereign\" was the reaction of one of Russia's chief foreign policy authors, Alexander Bezborodko, when he learned of the new constitution. The contacts of Polish reformers with the Revolutionary French National Assembly were seen by Poland's neighbors as evidence of a revolutionary conspiracy and a threat to the absolute monarchies. The Prussian statesman Ewald von Hertzberg expressed the fears of European conservatives: \"The Poles have given the \"coup de grâce\" to the Prussian monarchy by voting a constitution\", elaborating that a strong Commonwealth would likely demand return of the lands that Prussia had acquired in the First Partition.\n\nMagnates who had opposed the constitution draft from the start, Franciszek Ksawery Branicki, Stanisław Szczęsny Potocki, Seweryn Rzewuski, and Szymon and Józef Kossakowski, asked Tsarina Catherine to intervene and restore their privilegesthe Cardinal Laws abolished under the new statute. To that end these magnates formed the Targowica Confederation. The Confederation's proclamation, prepared in St. Petersburg in January 1792, criticized the constitution for contributing to \"contagion of democratic ideas\" following \"the fatal examples set in Paris.\" It asserted that \"The parliament ... has broken all fundamental laws, swept away all liberties of the gentry and on the third of May 1791 turned into a revolution and a conspiracy.\" The Confederates declared an intention to overcome this revolution. We \"can do nothing but turn trustingly to Tsarina Catherine, a distinguished and fair empress, our neighboring friend and ally\", who \"respects the nation's need for well-being and always offers it a helping hand\", they wrote.\n\nRussian armies entered Poland and Lithuania, starting the Polish–Russian War of 1792. The Sejm voted to increase the army of the Commonwealth to 100,000 men, but owing to insufficient time and funds this number was never achieved and soon abandoned even as a goal. The Polish King and the reformers could field only a 37,000-man army, many of them untested recruits. This army, under the command of Józef Poniatowski and Tadeusz Kościuszko, defeated or fought to a draw the Russians on several occasions, but in the end, a defeat loomed inevitable. Despite Polish requests, Prussia refused to honor its alliance obligations. Stanisław August's attempts at negotiations with Russia proved futile. As the front lines kept shifting to the west and in July 1792 Warsaw was threatened with siege by the Russians, the King came to believe that victory was impossible against the numerically superior enemy, and that surrender was the only alternative to total defeat. Having received assurances from the Russian ambassador Yakov Bulgakov that no territorial changes will occur, the Guardians of the Laws cabinet voted 8:4 to surrender. On 24 July 1792, King Stanisław August Poniatowski joined the Targowica Confederation, as the Empress had demanded. The Polish Army disintegrated.\n\nMany reform leaders, believing their cause was for now lost, went into self-imposed exile. Some hoped that Stanisław August would be able to negotiate an acceptable compromise with the Russians, as he had done in the past. But the King had not saved the Commonwealth and neither had the Targowica Confederates, who governed the country for a short while. To their surprise, the Grodno Sejm, bribed or intimidated by the Russian troops, enacted the Second Partition of Poland. On 23 November 1793, it concluded its deliberations under duress, annulling the constitution and acceding to the Second Partition. Russia took , while Prussia took . The Commonwealth now comprised no more than . What was left of the Commonwealth was merely a small buffer state with a puppet king, and Russian garrisons keeping an eye on the reduced Polish army.\n\nFor a year and a half, Polish patriots waited while planning an insurrection. On 24 March 1794 in Kraków, Tadeusz Kościuszko declared what has come to be known as the Kościuszko Uprising. On 7 May, he issued the Proclamation of Połaniec (\"Uniwersał Połaniecki\"), granting freedom to the peasants and ownership of land to all who fought in the insurrection. Revolutionary tribunals administered summary justice to those deemed traitors to the Commonwealth. After initial victories at the Battle of Racławice (April 4), the capture of Warsaw (18 April) and the Wilno (22 April)the Uprising was crushed when the forces of Russia, Austria and Prussia joined in a military intervention. Historians consider the Uprising's defeat to have been a foregone conclusion in face of the superiority in numbers and resources of the three invading powers. The defeat of Kościuszko's forces led in 1795 to the third and final partition of the Commonwealth.\n\nThe 3 May Constitution has been both idealized and criticized for either not going far enough or for being too radical. As its formal procedures remained formally performed for only 18 months and 3 weeks, its influence was in any case limited. For generations, the memory of the constitutionrecognized by political scientists as a progressive document for its timehelped keep alive Polish aspirations for an independent and just society, and continued to inform the efforts of its authors' descendants. Bronisław Dembiński, a Polish constitutional scholar, stated a century later that, \"The miracle of the Constitution did not save the state but did save the nation.\" In Poland it is mythologized, and viewed as a national symbol and the culmination of enlightenment in Polish history and culture. In the words of two of its co-authors, Ignacy Potocki and Hugo Kołłątaj, it was \"the last will and testament of the expiring Country.\" The 3 May anniversary of its adoption has been observed as Poland's most important civil holiday since Poland regained independence in 1918.\n\nThe 3 May Constitution was a milestone in the history of law and in the growth of democracy. Irish statesman Edmund Burke described it as \"the noblest benefit received by any nation at any time ... Stanislas II has earned a place among the greatest kings and statesmen in history.\" The 3 May Constitution was the first to follow the 1788 ratification of the United States Constitution. Poland and the United States, though geographically distant from each other, showed similar approaches to the designing of political systems. The 3 May Constitution has been called the second constitution in world history. The American constitutional-law expert Albert Blaustein has called it the \"world's second national constitution\", and American journalist Bill Moyers wrote that it was \"Europe's first codified national constitution (and the second oldest in the world).\" British historian Norman Davies calls it \"the first constitution of its type in Europe.\" Along with the Great Sejm, the 3 May Constitution has been the subject of a large body of works by Polish scholars, starting with the still-often cited 19th-century works of Walerian Kalinka and Władysław Smoleński, and continued in the 20th century by Bogusław Leśnodorski.\n\nThe document's official name was \"Ustawa Rządowa\" (\"Government Act\"), where \"government\" referred to the political system. In the Commonwealth, the term \"constitution\" (Polish: \"konstytucja\") had previously denoted all the legislation, of whatever character, that had been passed by a Sejm.\n\n3 May was declared a Polish holiday (Constitution Day\"Święto Konstytucji 3 Maja\") on 5 May 1791. The holiday was banned during the partitions of Poland but reinstated in April 1919 under the Second Polish Republicthe first holiday officially introduced in the newly independent country. It was again outlawed during World War II by both the Nazi and Soviet occupiers. It was celebrated in Polish cities in May 1945, although in a mostly spontaneous manner. The 1946 anti-communist demonstrations did not endear it to the Polish communists, and it competed for attention with the communist-endorsed May 1 Labor Day celebrations in the Polish People's Republic; this led to its \"rebranding\" as Democratic Party Day and removal from the list of national holidays by 1951. Until 1989, 3 May was a frequent occasion for anti-government and anti-communist protests. 3 May was restored as an official Polish holiday in April 1990 after the fall of communism. In 2007, 3 May was declared a Lithuanian national holiday. Polish-American pride has been celebrated on the same date, for instance in Chicago, where since 1982 Poles have marked it with festivities and the annual Polish Constitution Day Parade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55147833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55147833", "title": "Culture of Hunan", "text": "Culture of Hunan\n\nThe culture of Hunan (湖湘文化) refers to the culture of the people based in Hunan province. The mountainous terrain of Hunan separates it from the surrounding Chinese provinces, resulting in its own distinct characteristics.\n\n"}
{"id": "26610144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26610144", "title": "D-Shape", "text": "D-Shape\n\nD-Shape is a large 3-dimensional printer that uses binder-jetting, a layer by layer printing process, to bind sand with an inorganic seawater and magnesium-based binder in order to create stone-like objects. Invented by Enrico Dini, founder of Monolite UK Ltd, the first model of the D-Shape printer used epoxy resin, commonly used as an adhesive in the construction of skis, cars, and airplanes, as the binder. Dini patented this model in 2006. After experiencing problems with the epoxy, Dini changed the binder to the current magnesium-based one and patented his printer again in September 2008. In the future, Dini aims to use the printer to create full-scale buildings.\n\nThe current version of the D-Shape 3-D printer sits in a 6m by 6m aluminum frame. The frame consists of a square base that moves upwards along four vertical beams during the printing process via stepper motors, which are used to repeatedly move a specified length and then hold in place, on each beam. Spanning the entire horizontal 6m of the base is a printer head with 300 nozzles, each spaced 20mm apart. The printer head is connected to the base by an aluminum beam that runs perpendicular to the printer head.\n\nBefore the actual printing process can begin, a 3-D model of the object to be printed must be created on CAD, a software that allows a designer to create 3-D models on a computer. Once the model is finished, the CAD file is sent to the printer head. The printing process begins when a layer of sand from 5 to 10 mm thick, mixed with solid magnesium oxide (MgO), is evenly distributed by the printer head in the area enclosed by the frame. The printer head breaks the 3-D model into 2-D slices. Then, starting with the bottom slice, the head moves across the base and deposits an inorganic binding liquid made up of a solution that includes magnesium chloride, at a resolution of . The binder and sand chemically react to form a sandstone material. It takes about 24 hours for the material to completely solidify.\n\nBecause the nozzles are 20mm apart there are gaps that may need to be filled up. To fill in these gaps and ensure the sand is uniformly exposed to the binder, an electric piston on the beam that holds the printer head forces the printer head to shift in the direction perpendicular to the printer's direction of motion. It takes D-Shape four forward and backward strokes to finish printing a layer. After a layer is finished, the stepper motors on the vertical beams move the base upwards. From the hollow framework just above the printer head, new sand, which is cyclically refilled, is distributed into the area of the frame to create the next layer. During printing, excess sand acts as a support for the solidifying sand and can also be reused in later printings. The printing process is continuous and stops only when the desired structure is completely printed.\n\nAfter the printer finishes its work, the final structure must be extruded from the sand. Workers use shovels to take out the excess sand and reveal the final product. The magnesium oxide mixed in with the sand causes the sand to become an active participant rather than inert during the reaction with the binder. If the sand was inert, the resulting material would be more like concrete in that the sand would be only slightly bound together, but because of the MgO, the final product is a mineral-like material with a microcrystalline structure. Compared to concrete, which has low resistance to tension and as a result needs iron reinforcement, D-Shape's structures have relatively high tension resistance and require no iron reinforcement. The entire building process is reported to take a quarter of the time and a third to a half of the cost it would take to build the same structure with traditional means using portland cement, the material currently used in building construction.\n\nIn the fall of 2012, D-Shape entered into the NYC Waterfront Construction Competition hosted by the New York City Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC) in which competitors had to create an innovative solution to help strengthen New York City's deteriorating piers and coastline structures. D-Shape's idea, called, \"Digital Concrete,\" was to take 3-D scans of each piece of pier or infrastructure, and then print a support jacket for each specific piece. D-Shape was the First Place Winner and received $50,000 for the idea, which is estimated to save New York City $2.9 billion.\n\nD-Shape successfully created the tallest printed sculpture, Radiolaria, in 2009. Radiolaria, a sculpture created by Italian architect Andrea Morgante and inspired by radiolarians, unicellular organisms with intricate mineral skeletons, shows off D-Shape's ability to print large freeform structures. The current version of the sculpture is only a 3 x 3 x 3m scale model of the full-size Radiolaria that is planned to be put in a roundabout in Pontedera, Italy.\n\nCurrently, Jake Wake-Walker and Marc Webb are working on a documentary, titled \"The Man Who Prints Houses\", about Enrico Dini and his invention. Although D-Shape has garnered attention for its printing abilities, it is still a work in progress. While it has gotten close to printing an actual house by printing a trullo, which is a small, stone hut, the printer still needs to be modified in order to make Dini's dreams of printing larger and more complex buildings a reality.\n\nBecause of D-Shape's capabilities, the European Space Agency (ESA) has taken interest in using the printer to build moon bases. The ESA is interested in using D-Shape to build moon bases out of lunar regolith, otherwise known as moon dust, because the 3-D printer can build the base onsite without human intervention. This is advantageous because only the machine would have to be taken to the moon, thus reducing the cost of bringing building materials to the lunar surface to create the bases. D-Shape has been successful in printing components for the lunar bases with a simulated moon dust, and has also been subject to tests that aim to see how the printer will work in the environment on the moon.\n\n"}
{"id": "11741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11741", "title": "Fantasy film", "text": "Fantasy film\n\nFantasy films are films that belong to the fantasy genre with fantastic themes, usually magic, supernatural events, mythology, folklore, or exotic fantasy worlds. The genre is considered a form of speculative fiction alongside science fiction films and horror films, although the genres do overlap. Fantasy films often have an element of magic, myth, wonder, escapism, and the extraordinary.\n\nSeveral sub-categories of fantasy films can be identified, although the delineations between these subgenres, much as in fantasy literature, are somewhat fluid.\n\nThe most common fantasy subgenres depicted in movies are High Fantasy and Sword and Sorcery. Both categories typically employ quasi-medieval settings, wizards, magical creatures and other elements commonly associated with fantasy stories.\n\nHigh Fantasy films tend to feature a more richly developed fantasy world, and may also be more character-oriented or thematically complex. Often, they feature a hero of humble origins and a clear distinction between good and evil set against each other in an epic struggle. Many scholars cite J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" novel as the prototypical modern example of High Fantasy in literature, and the recent Peter Jackson film adaptation of the books is a good example of the High Fantasy subgenre on the silver screen.\nSword and Sorcery movies tend to be more plot-driven than high fantasy and focus heavily on action sequences, often pitting a physically powerful but unsophisticated warrior against an evil wizard or other supernaturally endowed enemy. Although Sword and Sorcery films sometimes describe an epic battle between good and evil similar to those found in many High Fantasy movies, they may alternately present the hero as having more immediate motivations, such as the need to protect a vulnerable maiden or village, or even being driven by the desire for vengeance.\n\nThe 1982 film adaptation of Robert E. Howard's \"Conan the Barbarian\", for example, is a personal (non-epic) story concerning the hero's quest for revenge and his efforts to thwart a single megalomaniac—while saving a beautiful princess in the process. Some critics refer to such films by the term Sword and Sandal rather than Sword and Sorcery, although others would maintain that the Sword and Sandal label should be reserved only for the subset of fantasy films set in ancient times on the planet Earth, and still others would broaden the term to encompass films that have no fantastic elements whatsoever. To some, the term Sword and Sandal has pejorative connotations, designating a film with a low-quality script, bad acting, and poor production values.\n\nAnother important subgenre of fantasy films that has become more popular in recent years is contemporary fantasy. Such films feature magical effects or supernatural occurrences happening in the \"real\" world of today.\n\nFilms with live action and animation such as Disney's \"Mary Poppins\", \"Pete's Dragon\", \"Enchanted\", and the Robert Zemeckis film \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\" are also fantasy films although are more often referred to as Live action/animation hybrids (2 of those are also classified as musicals).\n\nFantasy films set in the afterlife, called Bangsian Fantasy, are less common, although films such as the 1991 Albert Brooks comedy \"Defending Your Life\" would likely qualify. Other uncommon subgenres include Historical Fantasy and Romantic Fantasy, although 2003's \"\" successfully incorporated elements of both.\n\nAs noted above, superhero movies and fairy tale films might each be considered subgenres of fantasy films, although most would classify them as altogether separate movie genres.\n\nAs a cinematic genre, fantasy has traditionally not been regarded as highly as the related genre of science fiction film. Undoubtedly, the fact that until recently fantasy films often suffered from the \"Sword and Sandal\" afflictions of inferior production values, over-the-top acting, and decidedly poor special effects was a significant factor in fantasy film's low regard.\n\nSince the early 2000s, however, the genre has gained new respectability in a way, driven principally by the successful adaptations of J.R.R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" and J.K. Rowling's \"Harry Potter\" series. Jackson's \"The Lord of the Rings\" trilogy is notable due to its ambitious scope, serious tone, and thematic complexity. These pictures achieved phenomenal commercial and critical success, and the of the trilogy became the first fantasy film ever to win the Academy Award for Best Picture. The \"Harry Potter\" series has been a tremendous financial success, has achieved critical acclaim for its design, thematic sophistication and emotional depth, grittier realism and darkness, narrative complexity, and characterization, and boasts an enormous and loyal fanbase.\n\nFollowing the success of these ventures, Hollywood studios have greenlighted additional big-budget productions in the genre. These have included adaptations of the first, second, and third books in C. S. Lewis' \"The Chronicles of Narnia\" series and the teen novel \"Eragon\", as well as adaptations of Susan Cooper's \"The Dark Is Rising\", Cornelia Funke's \"Inkheart\", Philip Pullman's \"The Golden Compass\", Holly Black's \"The Spiderwick Chronicles\", Nickelodeon's TV show \"\", and the \"Fantasia\" segment (along with Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's original poem) \"The Sorcerer's Apprentice\"\n\nFantasy movies in recent years, such as \"The Lord of the Rings\" films, the first and third \"Narnia\" adaptations, and the first, second, fourth and seventh \"Harry Potter\" adaptations have most often been released in November and December. This is in contrast to science fiction films, which are often released during the northern hemisphere summer (June–August). All three installments of the \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" fantasy films, however, were released in July 2003, July 2006, and May 2007 respectively, and the latest releases in the \"Harry Potter\" series were released in July 2007 and July 2009. The huge commercial success of these pictures may indicate a change in Hollywood's approach to big-budget fantasy film releases.\n\nFantasy films have a history almost as old as the medium itself. However, fantasy films were relatively few and far between until the 1980s, when high-tech filmmaking techniques and increased audience interest caused the genre to flourish.\n\nWhat follows are some notable Fantasy films. For a more complete list see: List of fantasy films\n\nIn the era of silent film, the earliest fantasy films were those made by French film pioneer Georges Méliès from 1903. The most famous of these was 1902's \"A Trip to the Moon\". In the Golden Age of Silent film (1918–1926) the most outstanding fantasy films were Douglas Fairbanks' \"The Thief of Bagdad\" (1924), Fritz Lang's \"Die Nibelungen\" (1924), and \"Destiny\" (1921). Other notables in the genre were F.W. Murnau's romantic ghost story \"Phantom\", \"Tarzan of the Apes\" starring Elmo Lincoln, and D. W. Griffith's \"The Sorrows of Satan\".\n\nFollowing the advent of sound films, audiences of all ages were introduced from 1937's \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" to 1939's \"The Wizard of Oz\". Also notable of the era, the iconic 1933 film \"King Kong\" borrows heavily from the Lost World subgenre of fantasy fiction as does such films as the 1935 adaptation of H. Rider Haggard's novel \"She\" about an African expedition that discovers an immortal queen known as Ayesha \"She who must be obeyed\". Frank Capra's 1937 picture \"Lost Horizon\" transported audiences to the Himalayan fantasy kingdom of Shangri-La, where the residents magically never age. Other noteworthy fantasy films of the 30s include \"Tarzan the Ape Man\" in 1932 starring Johnny Weissmuller starting a successful series of talking pictures based on the fantasy-adventure novels by Edgar Rice Burroughs and the G. W. Pabst directed \"The Mistress of Atlantis\" from 1932. 1932 saw the release of the Universal Studios monster movie \"The Mummy\" which combined horror with a romantic fantasy twist. more light-hearted and comedic affairs from the decade include films like 1934s romantic drama film Death Takes a Holiday where Fredric March plays Death who takes a human body to experience life for three days and 1937s \"Topper\" where a man is haunted by two fun-loving ghosts who try to make his life a little more exciting.\n\nThe 1940s then saw several full-color fantasy films produced by Alexander Korda, including \"The Thief of Bagdad\" (1940), a film on par with \"The Wizard of Oz\", and \"Jungle Book\" (1942). In 1946, Jean Cocteau's classic adaptation of \"Beauty and the Beast\" won praise for its surreal elements and for transcending the boundaries of the fairy tale genre. \"Sinbad the Sailor\" (1947), starring Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., has the feel of a fantasy film though it does not actually have any fantastic elements.\n\nSeveral other pictures featuring supernatural encounters and aspects of Bangsian fantasy were produced in the 1940s during World War II. These include \"Beyond Tomorrow\", \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\", and \"Here Comes Mr. Jordan\", all from 1941, \"Heaven Can Wait\" the musical \"Cabin in the Sky\" (1943), the comedy \"The Horn Blows at Midnight\" and romances such as \"The Ghost and Mrs. Muir\" (1947), \"One Touch of Venus\" and \"Portrait of Jennie\", both 1948.\n\nAn astonishing anticpation of the full \"sword and sorcery\" genre was made in 1941 in Italy by Alessandro Blasetti. \"La Corona di Ferro\" presents the struggles of two imaginary kingdoms around the legendary Iron Crown (historically the ancient crown of Italy), with war, cruelty, betrayal, heroism, sex, magic and mysticism, a whirl of events taken from every possible fairy tale and legend source Blasetti could find. This movie is unlike anything done before; indeed, considering that it was finished fifteen years before the publication of Lord Of The Rings, its invention of a vast, national epic mythology is an act of genius. And while the storytelling is rough - due to the need to insert everything - and the resources limited, Blasetti shows how to make a little go a long way through beautifully staged and designed battle and crowd scenes.\n\nAlthough it's not classified as a fantasy film, Gene Kelly's \"Anchors Aweigh\" had a fantasy sequence called \"The King who Couldn't Dance\" in which Gene did a song and dance number with Jerry Mouse from Tom and Jerry.\n\nBecause these movies do not feature elements common to high fantasy or sword and sorcery pictures, some modern critics do not consider them to be examples of the fantasy genre.\n\nIn the 1950s there were a few major fantasy films, including \"Darby O'Gill and the Little People\" and \"The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T\", the latter penned by Dr. Seuss. Jean Cocteau's Orphic Trilogy, begun in 1930 and completed in 1959, is based on Greek mythology and could be classified either as fantasy or surrealist film, depending on how the boundaries between these genres are drawn. Russian fantasy director Aleksandr Ptushko created three mythological epics from Russian fairytales, \"Sadko\" (1953), \"Ilya Muromets\" (1956), and \"Sampo\" (1959). Japanese director Kenji Mizoguchi's 1953 film \"Ugetsu Monogatari\" draws on Japanese classical ghost stories of love and betrayal.\n\nOther notable pictures from the 1950s that feature fantastic elements and are sometimes classified as fantasy are \"Harvey\" (1950), featuring a púca of Celtic mythology; \"Scrooge\", the 1951 adaptation of Charles Dickens' \"A Christmas Carol\"; and Ingmar Bergman's 1957 masterpiece, \"The Seventh Seal\". Disney's 1951 animated film \"Alice in Wonderland\" is also a fantasy classic.\n\nThere were also a number of lower budget fantasies produced in the 1950s, typically based on Greek or Arabian legend. The most notable of these may be 1958's \"The 7th Voyage of Sinbad\", featuring special effects by Ray Harryhausen and music by Bernard Herrmann.\n\nHarryhausen worked on a series of fantasy films in the 1960s, most importantly \"Jason and the Argonauts\" (1963). Many critics have identified this film as Harryhausen's masterwork for its stop-motion animated statues, skeletons, harpies, hydra, and other mythological creatures. Other Harryhausen fantasy and science fantasy collaborations from the decade include the 1961 adaptation of Jules Verne's \"Mysterious Island\", the critically panned \"One Million Years B.C.\" starring Raquel Welch, and \"The Valley of Gwangi\" (1969).\n\nCapitalising on the success of the sword and sandal genre several Italian B-movies based on classical myth were made, including the \"Maciste\" series. Otherwise, the 1960s were almost entirely devoid of fantasy films. The fantasy picture \"7 Faces of Dr. Lao\", in which Tony Randall portrayed several characters from Greek mythology, was released in 1964. But the 1967 adaptation of the Broadway musical \"Camelot\" removed most of the fantasy elements from T. H. White's classic \"The Once and Future King\", on which the musical had been based. The 1960s also saw a new adaption of Haggard's \"She\" in 1965 starring Ursula Andress as the immortal \"She who must be obeyed\" and was followed by a sequel in 1968 \"The Vengeance of She\" based loosely on the novel both produced by Hammer Film Productions, 1968 also saw the release of \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\" based on a story by Ian Fleming with a script from Roald Dahl.\n\nFantasy elements of Arthurian legend were again featured, albeit absurdly, in 1975's \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\". Harryhausen also returned to the silver screen in the 1970s with two additional \"Sinbad\" fantasies, \"The Golden Voyage of Sinbad\" (1974) and \"Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger\" (1977). The animated movie \"Wizards\" (1977) had limited success at the box office but achieved status as a cult film. There was also \"The Noah\" (1975) which was never released theatrically but became a cult favorite when it was finally released on DVD in 2006. Some would consider 1977's \"Oh God!\", starring George Burns to be a fantasy film, and \"Heaven Can Wait\" (1978) was a successful Bangsian fantasy remake of 1941's \"Here Comes Mr. Jordan\" (not 1943's \"Heaven Can Wait\").\n\nA few low budget \"Lost World\" pictures were made in the 1970s, such as 1975's \"The Land That Time Forgot\". Otherwise, the fantasy genre was largely absent from mainstream movies in this decade, although 1971's \"Bedknobs and Broomsticks\" and \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\" were two fantasy pictures in the public eye the former being predominantly from the same team who did \"Mary Poppins\" the latter again being from Roald Dahl in both script and novel.\n\n1980s fantasy films were initially characterised by directors finding a new spin on established mythologies. Ray Harryhausen brought the monsters of Greek legends to life in \"Clash of the Titans\" while Arthurian lore returned to the screen in John Boorman's 1981 \"Excalibur\". Films such as Ridley Scott's 1985 \"Legend\" and Terry Gilliam's 1981–1986 trilogy of fantasy epics (\"Time Bandits\", \"Brazil\", and \"The Adventures of Baron Munchausen\") explored a new artist-driven style featuring surrealist imagery and thought-provoking plots. The modern sword and sorcery boom began around the same time with 1982's \"Conan the Barbarian\" followed by \"Krull\" and \"Fire and Ice\" in 1983, as well as a boom in fairy tale-like fantasy films such as \"Ladyhawke\" (1985), \"The Princess Bride\" (1987), and \"Willow\" (1988).\n\nThe 1980s also started a trend in mixing modern settings and action movie effects with exotic fantasy-like concepts. \"Big Trouble in Little China\" (1986), directed by John Carpenter and starring Kurt Russell, combined humor, martial arts and classic Chinese folklore in a modern Chinatown setting. \"Highlander\", a film about immortal Scottish swordsmen, was released the same year.\n\nJim Henson produced two iconic fantasy films in the 80s, the solemn \"The Dark Crystal\" and the more whimsical and lofty \"Labyrinth\". Meanwhile, Robert Zemeckis helmed \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\", featuring various famous cartoon characters from animation's \"Golden Age,\" including Mickey Mouse, Minnie Mouse, Donald Duck, Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Droopy, Wile E. Coyote and Road Runner, Sylvester the Cat, Tweety Pie, and Jiminy Cricket, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "77972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77972", "title": "Flag of Kiribati", "text": "Flag of Kiribati\n\nThe flag of Kiribati is red in the upper half with a gold frigatebird (\"Fregata minor\", in Gilbertese: \"te eitei\") flying over a gold rising sun (\"otintaai\"), and the lower half is blue with three horizontal wavy white stripes to represent the ocean and the three groups (Gilbert, Phoenix and Line Islands). The 17 rays of the sun represent the 16 Gilbert Islands and Banaba (former Ocean Island).\n\nThe frigatebird symbolises command of the sea, power, freedom and Kiribati cultural dance patterns, the blue and white wavy bands represent the Pacific Ocean, which surrounds Kiribati and the sun refers to Kiribati's position astride the Equator.\n\nThe badge was designed by Sir Arthur Grimble in 1932 for the Gilbert and Ellice Islands British colony.\n\nKiribati's flag is an armorial banner, a flag having a design corresponding exactly to that of the shield in the coat of arms.\n\nThe coat of arms dates back to May 1937 when it was granted to the Gilbert and Ellice Islands, as Kiribati and Tuvalu were then known. The shield was incorporated into the centre of the fly half of a British Blue Ensign as the state ensign of the colony.\n\nShortly before independence was granted in 1979, a local competition was held to choose a new national flag, and a design based on the colonial coat of arms was submitted to the College of Arms. The College of Arms decided to modify this design. Both the golden frigatebird and the sun were enlarged to occupy more of the top of the flag, and the width of the blue and white wavy bands was reduced. The local people, however, insisted on the original design, in which the top and bottom halves of the flag were equal, the sun and local frigate bird small, and the various design elements outlined in black. The new flag was hoisted during the independence day celebrations in the capital, Tarawa, on 12 July 1979.\n\nThe flag bears a very slight resemblance to the flag of the Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic, as well as to the flag of British Columbia, the Flag of the Isle of Wight, the flag of the Company of Scotland, and the flag of the city of Bath, Maine.\n"}
{"id": "312320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312320", "title": "Garum", "text": "Garum\n\nGarum was a fermented fish sauce used as a condiment in the cuisines of ancient Greece, Rome, and later Byzantium. Liquamen was a similar preparation, and at times the two were synonymous. Although it enjoyed its greatest popularity in the Roman world, the sauce was earlier used by the Greeks. \n\nPliny the Elder and Isidore of Seville derive the Latin word \"garum\" from the Greek γαρός (\"garos\"), a food named by Aristophanes, Sophocles, and Aeschylus. Garos may have been a type of fish, or a fish sauce similar to garum. Pliny stated that garum was made from fish intestines, with salt, creating a liquor, the garum, and a sediment named (h)allec or allex. A concentrated garum evaporated down to a thick paste with salt crystals was called muria; it would have been used to salt and flavor foods.\n\nLike the modern fermented soy product soy sauce, fermented garum is rich in monosodium glutamate, a source of umami flavoring. It was used along with murri in medieval Byzantine and Arab cuisine to give a savory flavor to dishes. Murri may well derive from garum.\n\nGarum was produced in various grades consumed by all social classes. After the liquid was ladled off of the top of the mixture, the remains of the fish, called \"allec\", was used by the poorest classes to flavour their staple porridge or farinata. The finished product—the \"nobile garum\" of Martial's epigram—was apparently mild and subtle in flavor. The best garum fetched extraordinarily high prices, and salt could be substituted for it in a simpler dish. Garum appears in many recipes featured in the Roman cookbook \"Apicius\". For example, Apicius (8.6.2–3) gives a recipe for lamb stew, calling for the meat to be cooked with onion and coriander, pepper, lovage, cumin, \"liquamen\", oil, and wine, then thickened with flour.\n\nIn the first century AD, \"liquamen\" was a sauce distinct from \"garum\", as indicated throughout the \"Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum\" IV. By the fifth century or earlier, however, \"liquamen\" had come to refer to \"garum\". The available evidence suggests that the sauce was typically made by crushing the innards of (fatty) pelagic fishes, particularly anchovies, but also sprats, sardines, mackerel, or tuna, and then fermenting them in brine. In most surviving \"tituli picti\" inscribed on amphorae, where the fish ingredient is shown, the fish is mackerel. Under the best conditions, the fermentation process took about 48 hours. \n\nThe manufacture and export of garum was an element of the prosperity of coastal Greek emporia from the Ligurian coast of Gaul to the coast of Hispania Baetica, and perhaps an impetus for Roman penetration of these coastal regions.\n\nPliny the Elder spoke of a type of higher quality garum that Roman Jews may have used, as normal garum would not have been considered kosher.\n\nIn the ruins of Pompeii, jars were found containing \"kosher garum\", suggesting an equal popularity among Jews there. Each port had its own traditional recipe, but by the time of Augustus, Romans considered the best to be garum from Cartagena and Gades in Baetica.\n\nThis product was called \"garum sociorum\", \"garum of the allies\". The ruins of a garum factory remain at the Baetian site of Baelo Claudia (in present-day Tarifa) and Carteia (San Roque). Other sites are a large garum factory at Gades (Cadiz) and at Málaga under the Picasso museum.\n\nGarum was a major export product from Hispania to Rome, and gained the towns a certain amount of prestige. The garum of Lusitania (in present-day Portugal) was also highly prized in Rome, and was shipped directly from the harbour of Lacobriga (Lagos). A former Roman garum factory can be visited in the Baixa area of central Lisbon. Fossae Marianae in southern Gaul, located on the southern tip of present-day France, served as a distribution hub for Western Europe, including Gaul, Germania, and Roman Britain.\n\nUmbricius Scaurus' production of garum was key to the economy of Pompeii. The factories where garum was produced in Pompeii have not been uncovered, perhaps indicating that they lay outside the walls of the city. The production of garum created such unpleasant smells that factories were generally relegated to the outskirts of cities. In 2008, archaeologists used the residue from garum found in containers in Pompeii to confirm the August date of the eruption of Mount Vesuvius. The garum had been made entirely of bogues, fish that congregate in the summer months.\n\nWhen mixed with wine (\"oenogarum\", a popular Byzantine sauce), vinegar, black pepper, or oil, garum enhances the flavor of a wide variety of dishes, including boiled veal and steamed mussels, even pear-and-honey soufflé. Diluted with water (\"hydrogarum\") it was distributed to Roman legions. Pliny (d. 79) remarked in his \"Natural History\" that it could be diluted to the colour of honey wine and drunk.\n\n\"Garum\" had a social dimension that might be compared to that of garlic in some modern Western societies, or to the adoption of fish sauce in Vietnamese cuisine (called \"nước mắm\" there). Seneca, holding the old-fashioned line against the expensive craze, cautioned against it, even though his family was from Baetian Corduba:\n\nA surviving fragment of Plato Comicus speaks of \"putrid garum\". Martial congratulates a friend on keeping up amorous advances to a girl who had indulged in six helpings of it.\n\nGarum was also employed as a medicine. It was thought to be one of the best cures for many ailments, including dog bites, dysentery, and ulcers, and to ease chronic diarrhea and treat constipation. Garum was even used as an ingredient in cosmetics and for removal of unwanted hair and freckles.\n\nThe biological anthropologist Piers Mitchell suggests that garum may have helped spread fish tapeworms across Europe.\n\nGarum is believed to be the ancestor of the fermented anchovy sauce \"colatura di alici\", still produced in Campania, Italy. Worcestershire is a savory sauce based upon fermented anchovies and other ingredients. Ketchup, originally a savory fish sauce that did not contain either sugar or tomatoes, shared its origins, culinary functions and popularity with garum.\n\nGarum remains of interest to food historians and chefs, and has been reintroduced into modern food preparation. In Southeast Asia, fish sauce is a distinctive element of that region's cuisine, used similarly as garum was in Rome. In Cádiz, Spain, in 2017, one chef used its flavors for a fish salad recipe, after Spanish archaeologists found evidence of garum in amphoras recovered in the ruins of Pompeii, dating to 79 AD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52613646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52613646", "title": "Globalization of sports", "text": "Globalization of sports\n\nGlobalization of sports refers to the process of expansion of the idea of sport across the world and phenomena is how that are associated with it.The field of sports in the 20th-21st century was naturally influenced by the process of globalisation.Globalization not only impacts the way in which sports are conducted and organised but also how they are perceived and what they mean in today's world.\n\nThe roots of modern sports can be found in the mid-nineteenth century in Great Britain and the United States where first professional sports were organised in mining and industrial towns and cities. Back then, sport competition was conducted mostly on local and national level. First signs of globalization in that matter appeared because of the global hegemonic position that Great Britain had in the nineteenth century. Due to the British influence, popularity of such sports as football, rugby or cricket grew rapidly throughout the world, very often replacing traditional local games.\n\nAnother step in the globalization of sports was taken with the establishment of the International Olympic Committee in 1894 and the revival of the Olympics Games in 1896. The first modern Olympics Games were organised in its ancient birthplace of Athens and attracted athletes from fourteen nations. Despite that most of the participants were European, the Olympics Games of 1896 initiated regularly held international sport competition that soon spread on a global scale. In 1904 in Paris, the International Federation of Association Football (FIFA) was founded by representatives of France, Belgium, Denmark, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. Shortly after, other European associations joined and by 1909 FIFA was consisted only from nations of the “old continent”. This state of affairs did not last long and South Africa was the first country from overseas that joined the Federation followed by Argentina and Chile (1912) and the United States (1913). This allowed FIFA to start its global activities and in 1930 the first FIFA World Cup was organised. The tournament which was hosted in Uruguay was announced as a great success despite that only four European teams were able to participate. Meanwhile other international sport federations started appearing and after the World War II, when the United States rose as a global power, “American” sports like basketball and volleyball began getting more popularity around the world. International Volleyball Federation (FIVB) organised their first World Championship in 1949 while International Basketball Federation (FIBA) hosted theirs in 1950.\n\nLater on, globalization of sports was fueled by the expansion of technology and the introduction of commercial aspects to sports. On one hand newspaper, radio and especially television exposed sports to the wider international audience (first FIFA World Cup was televised in 1956 and first Summer Olympics in 1960), on the other commercial advertising allowed to profit from them. \n\nSince the end of the world it was said that twentieth century the globalization of sports rapidly accelerated by bringing television and corporate sponsorship. It led to the commercialization of sport and gave birth to the sport industry. Therefore, in the context of globalization, sport in the contemporary world can be characterised by the following tendencies:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGlobalization of sports has also a negative impact that can be visible in the following issues:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2435018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2435018", "title": "Hat Act", "text": "Hat Act\n\nThe Hat Act is a former Act of the Parliament of Great Britain (5 Geo II. c. 22) enacted in 1732 to prevent and control hat production by the colonists in British America.\n\nIt specifically placed limits on the manufacture, sale, and exportation of colonial-made hats. The act also restricted hiring practices by limiting the number of workers that hatmakers could employ, and placing limits on apprenticeships by only allowing two apprentices. The Hat Act was one of several legislative measures introduced by the British Parliament, seeking to restrict colonial manufactures, particularly in North American areas with available raw materials, and protect British manufactures from colonial competition.\n\nThis law's effect was that Americans in the colonies were forced to buy British-made goods, and this artificial trade restraint meant that Americans paid four times as much for hats and cloth imported from Britain than for local goods. It was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1867.\n\nIn his \"A Summary View of the Rights of British America\", Thomas Jefferson denounced the Act as \"an instance of despotism to which no parallel can be produced in the most arbitrary ages of British history\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3190095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3190095", "title": "History of zoophilia", "text": "History of zoophilia\n\nThe history of zoophilia and bestiality begins in the prehistoric era, where depictions of humans and animals in a sexual context appear infrequently in European rock art. Bestiality remained a theme in mythology and folklore through the classical period and into the Middle Ages (e.g. the Greek myth of Leda and the Swan) and several ancient authors purported to document it as a regular, accepted practice – albeit usually in \"other\" cultures. \n\nExplicit legal prohibition of human sexual contact with animals is a legacy of the Abrahamic religions: the Hebrew Bible imposes the death penalty on both the person and animal involved in an act of bestiality. There are several examples known from medieval Europe of people and animals executed for committing bestiality. With the Age of Enlightenment, bestiality was subsumed with other sexual \"crimes against nature\" into civil sodomy laws, usually remaining a capital crime.\n\nBestiality remains illegal in most countries. Arguments used to justify this include: it is against religion, it is a \"crime against nature,\" and that non-human animals cannot give consent and that sex with animals is inherently abusive. In common with many paraphilias, the internet has allowed the formation of a zoophile community that has begun to lobby for zoophilia or zoosexuality to be considered an alternative sexuality and for the legalisation of bestiality.\n\nDepictions of human sexual activity with animals appear infrequently in prehistoric art. Possibly the oldest depiction, and the only known example from the Palaeolithic (prior to the domestication of animals), is found in the Vale do Côa in Portugal. It shows a man with an exaggerated, erect penis juxtaposed with a goat. However, there is some doubt that the two figures are contemporary; while the goat is depicted in characteristic palaeolithic style, the scene may have been altered in a later period with the insertion of the human figure.\n\nFrom the Neolithic onwards, images of zoophilia are slightly more common. Examples are found at \"Coren del Valento\", a cave in Val Camonica, Italy, containing rock art dating from 10,000 BCE to as late as the Middle Ages, one depicting a man penetrating a horse, and Sagaholm, a Bronze Age cairn in Sweden where several petroglyphs have been found with similar scenes.\n\nSeveral Greek myths include the God Zeus seducing or abducting favoured mortals while in the form of an animal: Europa and the bull, Ganymede and the eagle, and Leda and the Swan. Only the latter legend includes actual copulation between Leda and Zeus in his animal form, but depictions of this act, fairly uncommon in antiquity, became a popular motif in classicising Renaissance art, contributing to a lasting prominence in Western culture.\nVarious classical writers recorded that bestiality was common in other cultures. Herodotus was followed by Pindar, Strabo and Plutarch in alleging that Egyptian women engaged in sexual relations with goats for religious and magical purposes - the animal aspects of Egyptian deities being particularly alien to the Greco–Roman world. Conversely, Plutarch and Virgil make similar accusations of the Greeks, with Plutarch writing in his \"Discourse on the Reason of Beasts\" that they committed \"very frequently and in many places great outrages, disorders and scandals against nature, in the matter of this pleasure of love; for there are men who have loved she-goats, sows and mares.\"\n\nDespite their place in mythology and literature, actual acts of bestiality were probably as uncommon in antiquity as they are today. Roman civil law, however, made no mention of it. The explicit prohibition of and strict penalties for zoophilia universal in later European legal systems were derived from Jewish and Christian tradition. The Hebrew Bible imposes the death penalty on both the human and animal parties involved in an act of bestiality: \"if a man has sexual relations with an animal, he shall be put to death; and you shall kill the animal.\" The Synod of Ancyra in 313–316 discussed the position of the church with regard to bestiality at length and two of the resulting twenty-five canons addressed it: the sixteenth canon described the penance and level of restrictions to be applied to various age groups for committing bestiality; the seventeenth canon prohibited all lepers from praying inside church if they had committed bestiality while they suffered from leprosy.\n\nHittite law mandated the death penalty for intercourse with animals, excluding horses and mules (violators were instead barred from the priesthood and from approaching the king).\n\nIn the Church-oriented culture of the Middle Ages, zoosexual activity was met with execution, typically burning, and death to the animals involved either the same way or by hanging. Masters comments that:\n\nIn 1468, Jean Beisse, accused of bestiality with a cow on one occasion and a goat on another, was first hanged, then burned. The animals involved were also burned. In 1539, Guillaume Garnier, charged with intercourse with a female dog (described as \"sodomy\"), was ordered strangled after he confessed under torture. The dog was burned, along with the trial records which were \"too horrible and potentially dangerous to be permitted to exist\" (Masters). In 1601, Claudine de Culam, a young girl of sixteen, was convicted of copulating with a dog. Both the girl and the dog were first hanged, and finally burned. In 1735, François Borniche was charged with sexual intercourse with animals. It was greatly feared that \"his infamous debauches may corrupt the young men.\" He was imprisoned, and there is no record of his release.\n\nOn the other hand, other accounts are more possibly fictitious, such as Pietro Damiani's, who in his \"De bono religiosi status et variorum animatium tropologia\" (11th century) tells of a Count Gulielmus whose pet ape became his wife's lover. One day the ape became \"mad with jealousy\" on seeing the count lying with his wife that it fatally attacked him. Damiani claims he was told about this incident by Pope Alexander II and shown an offspring claimed to be that of the ape and woman. (\"Illustrated Book of Sexual Records\")\n\nClergyman and chronicler Gerald of Wales claimed to have witnessed a man having intercourse with a horse as part of a pagan ritual in Ireland.\n\nAlthough thousands of female witches were accused of having sex with animals, usually said to be the Devil in animal form or their familiars, court records available in Europe and the United States, dating back to the 14th century and continuing into the 20th century, nearly always show males, rather than females, as the human parties in court cases. (\"Encyclopedia of Human Sexuality\", Humboldt University)\n\nFrom at least the 13th century and until the French Revolution, French criminal law had theoretically punished bestiality with death (burning at the stake), although in practice law courts only occasionally meted out that penalty. When the revolutionary politicians of the National Constituent Assembly set out to remake French government and society, their reforms included new criminal laws liberalizing sexual activities, which inspired by ideas of the 18th-century Enlightenment. In 1791, Louis-Michel Le Peletier de Saint-Fargeau presented a newly drafted penal code to the National Constituent Assembly. He explained that it outlawed only \"true crimes\" and not \"phoney offenses, created by superstition, feudalism, the tax system, and [royal] despotism.\" Zoophilia was not mentioned in the new Penal Code (promulgated September 26-October 6, 1791) and thus decriminalized it.\n\nIn 1810, the French Penal Code of 1810 was enacted as part of Napoleonic Code of the First French Empire. After that time the subject of bestiality was not included in civil code of France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Romania, Belgium, and the Netherlands. In 19th-century France, bestiality became an organized practice, and at the time of Napoleon III, bestiality was said to have been one of the allied activities of the Society for the Advancement of Sodomy, which met regularly in the allée des Veuves. \n\nIn 1835, the Russian Empire criminalized \"skotolozhstvo\" (bestiality) in the country. In 1845, the Russian Empire merged both \"muzhelozhstvo\" and \"skotolozhstvo\" statues together into a single statue prohibiting \"protivoestestvennye poroki\" (vices contrary to nature). On August 20, 1848, Norway adopted new penal codes which replaced a 1687 law that implemented the capital punishment by burning for \"intercourse which is against nature\" (bestiality) and reduced the punishment for engaging in bestiality from capital punishment to a sentence of hard labor of the fifth degree.\n\nIn 1855, the German physician Wilhelm Gollmann claimed that sodomy was initially committed by shepherds. He adds that shepherds were drawn to this method of pleasure for the \"want of more natural opportunities.\" Gollmann then prejudicially attacks Sicilians, whom he claims commit zoophilia against goats. According to Blumenbach, the females of Guinea commit indecent acts against monkeys. Gollmann finalizes his dubious claims with his assertion that Iranians commit acts against donkeys as a cure for coxalgia.\n\nIn 1852, the Austrian Empire enacted § 130 which criminalized bestiality with a maximum of five years in prison. About fifty people were convicted annually due to the law. In 1861, the Offences against the Person Act 1861 lowered the criminal penalty of buggery in the United Kingdom from the death penalty to life in prison. On February 10, 1866, Denmark (including Greenland and Faroes) adopted new penal codes which replaced a 1683 law that implemented the death penalty at the stake by means of royal pardon for \"intercourse against nature\" (bestiality) and reduced the punishment for engaging in bestiality from capital punishment to a sentence of hard labor ranging from about eight months to six years, which was further reduced with about one third if the penalty was served in solitude. On June 25, 1869, Iceland adopted a new penal code that replaced a 13th-century law mandating death by burning for \"intercourse which is against nature\" (bestiality) to a punishment of work in a house of correction.\n\nOn May 15, 1871, the German Empire enacted Paragraph 175 into the “Reichs-Criminal Code” (RStGB) which outlawed zoophilia and punished it by imprisonment. In 1878, the penal code of the Kingdom of Hungary criminalized bestiality with a maximum of one year in prison. Sweden, in 1864, and Grand Duchy of Finland, on December 19, 1889, adopted new penal codes replacing and a 1734 penal code, which applied to both countries and criminalized bestiality with being burnt at the stake. The 1864 Swedish law punished \"fornication with animals\" (bestiality) with two years hard labor, while the 1889 Finished law punished bestiality with imprisonment for two years.\n\nOn June 28, 1935, Nazi Germany enacted legislation that created a separate category in Paragraph 175 for \"fornication with animals\" and penalized with up to five years in prison. In 1949, East Germany was created and the country never considered bestiality an offense during the country's existence. Zoophilia was exempt from punishment in over 80% of European countries in 1950s.\n\nDuring the 20th century, zoophilia was legalized in the Russian Empire in 1903, in Denmark (including Greenland and Faroes) on January 1, 1933, in Iceland on August 12, 1940, in Sweden in 1944, in Hungarian People's Republic in 1961, in West Germany in 1969, in Austria in 1971, in Finland on January 15, 1971, and Norway on April 21, 1972.\n\nIn 2003, the Sexual Offences Act 2003 lowered the criminal penalty of bestiality in the United Kingdom from life in prison to two years in prison.\n\nIn 2006, Denmark's Council for Animal Ethics said there was no need to ban bestiality unless it took place in pornographic films or sex shows. Only one of the 10 members of the council, set up by the Danish Justice Ministry to establish and uphold animal ethics, wanted bestiality expressly prohibited. The other members said current laws provided enough animal protection. Denmark outlawed bestiality in 2015 after all parties except the Liberal Alliance voted in support of a ban, leaving Hungary, Finland and Romania as the only European Union countries without bans on bestiality.\n\nDuring the 21st century, zoophilia was re-criminalized in the following countries or territories: Iowa (illegal since 2001), Maine (illegal since 2001), Oregon (illegal since 2001), Illinois (illegal since January 1, 2003), Maryland (illegal since October 1, 2002), South Dakota (illegal since July 1, 2003), France (illegal since March 10, 2004), Washington (illegal since June 7, 2006), Arizona (illegal since September 21, 2006), Belgium (illegal since May 11, 2007), Colorado (illegal since July 1, 2007), Indiana (illegal since July 1, 2007), Tennessee (illegal since July 1, 2007), Netherlands (illegal since 2010), Norway (illegal since January 1, 2010), Alaska (illegal since September 13, 2010), Australian Capital Territory (illegal since 2011), Florida (illegal since October 1, 2011), Germany (illegal since 2013), Sweden (illegal since January 1, 2014), and Denmark (illegal since April 2015).\n\nWhen Germany passed a law banning zoophilia in 2013, the zoophile community protested and filed a suit against the government saying the law violated their rights. A few months later, ZETA, a German zoophile-rights group, put together a march that would make its way through the street of Berlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "986457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986457", "title": "Hoedown", "text": "Hoedown\n\nA hoedown is a type of American folk dance or square dance in duple meter, and also the musical form associated with it.\n\nThe most popular sense of the term is associated with Americans in rural or southeastern parts of the country, particularly Appalachia. It is a dance in quick movement most likely related to the jig, reel or clog dance. In contest fiddling, a hoedown is a tune in fast 2/4 time. In many contests, fiddlers are required to play a waltz, a hoedown, and a \"tune of choice,\" which must not be a waltz or a hoedown (typically it is a jig or a schottische).\n\nIn modern Western square dance, a hoedown is a piece of music used for a patter call (a call that is spoken or chanted, rather than sung to the tune of a popular song), or the recording that contains this piece of music. In the early days of the Western square dance revival (the 1940s and early 1950s), most hoedowns were traditional fiddle tunes; since the late 1950s, recordings of simple chord progressions, with no discernible melody, have also been sold to callers under the name \"hoedown.\" In the 1940s and early 1950s, the term \"hoedown\" was sometimes used to mean a call made up of parts of other calls. \"Hoedown\" was, and occasionally still is, also used to mean a dance jointly sponsored by several dance clubs or by a federation of clubs.\n\nThe most famous hoedown in classical music is the section entitled \"Hoe-Down\" from the \"Rodeo\" ballet by Aaron Copland (1942). The most frequently heard version is from the \"Four Dance Episodes from Rodeo\", which Copland extracted from the ballet shortly after its premiere; the dance episodes were first performed in 1943 by the Boston Pops conducted by Arthur Fiedler. Copland's \"Hoe-Down\" became even more famous through television advertisements by America's Beef Producers with the slogan \"Beef. It's What's For Dinner\". \n\n\"Hoe-Down\" has been covered by Emerson, Lake & Palmer on their album \"Trilogy\" and by Béla Fleck and the Flecktones on their albums \"Outbound\" and \"Live at the Quick\". Additionally, the jazz musician Oliver Nelson performed a jazz-infused variation written by himself entitled \"Hoe-Down\" on his album \"The Blues and the Abstract Truth\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1679152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1679152", "title": "Insignificance (film)", "text": "Insignificance (film)\n\nInsignificance is a 1985 British comedy-drama film directed by Nicolas Roeg, produced by Jeremy Thomas and Alexander Stuart, and adapted by Terry Johnson from his play of the same name. The film is set in 1954, with most of the action taking place in a hotel room in New York City. The action revolves around the interplay of four characters who represent iconic figures of the era - Marilyn Monroe, Joseph McCarthy, Joe DiMaggio, and Albert Einstein - called The Actress, The Senator, The Ballplayer, and The Professor, respectively.\n\nThe film opens on a crowded New York City street where people have gathered to watch a film crew shoot a sequence which becomes recognisable as the iconic shot of Marilyn Monroe in a white dress standing on a grate while the rush of wind caused by a huge fan to imitate the subway going by below blows her skirt up around her waist. The Actress' husband, The Ballplayer, watches with obvious discomfort as she is ogled. The Actress, rather than join him afterwards, disappears in a taxi, leaving him behind. She stops at a store and picks up a variety of toys, flashlights, and balloons.\n\nThe Professor, recognisable as Albert Einstein, is in his hotel room, working on pages of mathematical calculations. He is interrupted by The Senator, who has come to alternately coax and threaten him into appearing before a committee to investigate his activities and answer the famous question, \"Are you now or have you ever been...?\" The Senator is recognisable as Joe McCarthy. The Professor refuses and says he will never appear. The Senator leaves, saying he'll be back to get him at 8 a.m. the following morning.\n\nThe Actress appears at the door of the Professor's hotel room, and he invites her in. They talk about fame, being chased, and the stars. She does a lively demonstration of the Theory of Relativity using the toys and flashlights and balloons. She tells The Professor he is at the top of her list of people she'd like to sleep with. They decide to go to bed, but are interrupted by the arrival of The Ballplayer, who has tracked her to the hotel. The Professor leaves them alone and goes to find another room, meeting a Cherokee elevator man with whom he speaks. The Actress and The Ballplayer talk about their marriage; The Actress tells her husband she believes she is pregnant, but he has fallen asleep.\n\nThe following morning The Senator arrives at The Professor's room to find him gone, but The Actress naked and alone in his bed. The Senator mistakes her for a call girl and threatens to use her to expose and embarrass The Professor, then punches her hard in the abdomen, causing her to collapse in pain. The Professor returns while The Senator is collecting all of the hundreds of pages of The Professor's work to take away with him. The Professor grabs the papers and throws them out of the windows, while The Actress writhes in agony on the bed. The Senator leaves, defeated in his purpose. The Ballplayer returns and talks about his fame in the baseball world, and confides in him about his marital problems while The Actress is in the bathroom, possibly suffering a miscarriage. She finally announces to him that their marriage is over, and he leaves.\n\nThe Actress becomes impatient with The Professor, sensing that he is hiding something. He is sitting on the bed with his watch, which has stopped at 8.15, in one hand, and the alarm clock in the other as the hour approaches 8.15 (the time that \"Little Boy\" was dropped on Hiroshima). He confesses his terrible feelings of guilt about the event, and she reassures him. Right at 8.15 a.m. as she is leaving, he has a vision of the destruction of the room, Hiroshima, and the world. The Actress's skirt swirls in flames as she burns in his vision. Then the film reverses and the world is restored to order as she smiles and leaves.\n\n\n\"Insignificance\" was originally a play, written by Terry Johnson and performed at the Royal Court in 1982, with Judy Davis as The Actress. The seed for Johnson's play was his having read that an autographed photograph of Einstein was found amongst Marilyn Monroe's possessions upon her death. The idea of them meeting piqued his interest, and he wrote what became a meditation on the nature of fame. \"It was always meant to be a play about the era, about fame...what these people stood for, the fact that this was different from what they are.\" He was interested in exploring the differences between who these people really were, as opposed to what qualities others assumed or imbued them with. Johnson acknowledges that there are \"lots of little cheats\" in the play, mostly to do with exactly where and when \"The Seven Year Itch\" was filmed, and the timing of Marilyn's marriage to Joe DiMaggio. Einstein was also never called to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee, \"but,\" he said, \"had it gone on longer, I can see that as having been a big possibility. He was there in spirit, as it were.\"\n\nRoeg saw the play and felt it \"might be a tool to use. An incident came up in my own life and I thought, 'Good God, nobody knows a damn thing about anyone.' That was the premise that started me thinking about the piece again.\" Roeg notes that \"Insignificance\" is usually talked about as a meeting between Marilyn Monroe and Albert Einstein, but what moved him was the pain of the problems between The Actress and The Ballplayer, who are married but seem to know nothing about each other. \"Insignificance\" would become his first film adapted from a play.\n\nRoeg asked Johnson to work on the screenplay, which at first meant simply reducing the play to approximately 90 minutes as opposed to two hours, but then Roeg began making suggestions which would expand the screenplay and include flashbacks to the characters' histories, and flash-forwards of imagination. His suggestions inspired Johnson to focus on a deeper development of the characters, while Roeg himself began to imagine how the film could open the play spatially as well as laterally. \"He opened it backwards,\" Johnson said.\n\nAll of the interiors for \"Insignificance\" were shot at Lee Studios in Wembley, with exteriors shot in New York City. Mise-en-scène was created through the use of Pablo Picasso's post-cubism painting \"Woman and Child on the Seashore\" which underscores The Actress' pain about her childlessness, while the fractured structure of the narrative was mirrored in the splintered image of Theresa Russell used as a nude calendar shot of The Actress. Created by photographer-collagist David Hockney, the image is, according to film critic Chuck Stephens, \"a pinup in a hundred pieces, a centerfold sent through a centrifuge...\" and is a reflection of The Actress. With \"her much-exposed and famously exploited psyche already splintered into jagged, mingled shards of kittenish innocence, movie business cunning, overwhelming erotic appeal, and abject inner terror, Monroe was post-cubism's quintessential glittering star...perfectly pieced together and seen prismatically all at once...\" The image is also a metaphor for Roeg's non-linear filmmaking, Stephens notes that \"for a cine-cubist like Roeg, two entirely disparate spatial and temporal dimensions are never more than a splice apart, and in \"Insignificance\", the past is always present, and never goes away.\"\n\n\"Insignificance\" received mostly positive reviews at the time of its release, and currently has a 67% score at Rotten Tomatoes The film has been written about extensively in the years since it was first seen. Film4's movie critic wrote: \"Roeg really is the perfect director to bring Johnson's stage play to the screen. Throughout, tortured childhood flashbacks and pessimistic flash-forwards (ka-boom!) draw unexpected connections between time, place and circumstance, with the repeated visual motif of a wristwatch employed to mark time's passing — but perhaps also to suggest all time is one time; each moment co-existing. As evinced by his back catalogue, it's something of a hobbyhorse for a director enchanted with the notion of synchronicity – see \"Don't Look Now\" in particular. Here, 1920 bleeds into 1945 and drip-feeds into the 1980s, a period in which another 'Actor' has taken on his greatest role as the President of the United States.\"\n\nFrederic and Mary Ann Brussat write: \"\"Insignificance\" shines with some incandescent moments of acting bravado delivered by Theresa Russell, Tony Curtis, and Gary Busey. As a weird meditation on sex, power, knowledge, and fame, this is a four-star treat for those who savor exotic movie fare...Nicolas Roeg (\"Don't Look Now\", \"The Man Who Fell to Earth\") draws out the inner psychological nuances of the drama and delivers the philosophical freight in Terry Johnson's screenplay.\"\n\nThe film was entered into the 1985 Cannes Film Festival where it was nominated for the Palme d'Or and won the Technical Grand Prize.\n\nThe soundtrack to the film was released on the British label ZTT Records. It featured a diverse selection of professional artists and composers including movie composer Hans Zimmer, Glenn Gregory, Claudia Brücken, Stanley Myers, Midge Ure (occasional guitar), Roy Orbison. In addition, Gil Evans and his orchestra contributed with an interpretation of Mozart's \"Jupiter Symphony\", and \"America\" by Death Comet Crew was also included.\n\nThe title of the film was used by musician Jim O'Rourke for his album \"Insignificance\".\n\nThe film is also featured in Big Audio Dynamite's music video for \"E=MC2\" as clips are shown throughout the video and are also referenced throughout the song.\n\n\"Insignificance\" was released on VHS in 1985, on Laserdisc a few years later, and on DVD in 2003. In June 2011, the Criterion Collection released a fully restored and re-mastered DVD and Blu-ray edition, containing interviews with Nicolas Roeg, Terry Johnson, long-time Roeg editor Tony Lawson, and the short film, \"Making 'Insignificance'\". The release also contains a booklet with excerpts from the August 1985 Roeg-Johnson interview called \"Relatively Speaking\" in the 1985 Monthly Film Bulletin, and an essay by film critic Chuck Stephens.\n\n"}
{"id": "42307809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42307809", "title": "Interior portrait", "text": "Interior portrait\n\nThe interior portrait (portrait d'intérieur) or, in German, Zimmerbild (room picture), is a pictorial genre that appeared in Europe near the end of the 17th century and enjoyed a great vogue in the second half of the 19th century. It involves a careful, detailed representation of a living space, without any people. These paintings were generally rendered as watercolors and required great technical mastery, if little creativity. By the mid-20th century, although such scenes were still being created, photography had changed this style of painting into a form of intentional archaism.\n\nThe interior portrait should not be confused with what is called a \"conversation piece\" in England; a term which designates a scene with a group of people engaged in some activity and often placed outdoors. The true interior piece shows only the room and decor, although previous activity may be suggested by the placement of articles in the room.\n\nThis type of scene first appears near the end of the 17th century. At that time, the intent was entirely descriptive. They were usually done specifically to show the contents of an art gallery, personal library or cabinet of curiosities. One of the first known examples depicts the library of Samuel Pepys in London, dating from 1693. They are still valued today by researchers and decorators. In the case of Pepys, it can be seen, firsthand, how a scholar of that time arranges his books in a bookcase (an innovation at that time), uses a lectern, places cushions for his comfort, hangs maps, etc. \n\nIt was not until the last quarter of the 18th century that a new type of interior portrait with a different intent made its appearance. This type first arose in architectural firms and was done for the benefit of their clients. Great architects such as the James Adam and his brother Robert Adam of Scotland and François-Joseph Bélanger would execute watercolors of their previous projects to entice prospective customers. This created a fad among the wealthy and the nobility to commission paintings of their own rooms, to show off and preserve for posterity. These paintings were often compiled into albums. This craze was particularly prevalent in England. From there, it spread widely throughout Europe.\n\nThe first historically important example of the interior portrait represents a small art gallery set up by the Empress Josephine at Malmaison in 1812. In this watercolor by Auguste-Siméon Garneray, we can see her harp, art collection and her shawl, left on an armchair. Thus a new element appears: the psychological elements of the décor and a palpable human presence. One can feel the owner's emotions and thoughts. In this sense, the paintings have truly become \"portraits\".\nThe immense popularity of these paintings in the 19th century can be explained by many factors. Among the nouveau-riche and the bourgeoisie, great importance was given to the home as a place of comfort, intimacy and family. This period also saw a specialization (e.g. separate dining rooms) that were once known only to the very wealthy. These new \"middle-classes\" were also eager to copy aristocratic tastes and industrialization made a much wider variety of furniture easily affordable. Finally, decorative styles were constantly being changed and resurrected, so interior portraits were a way of preserving one's memories and bequeathing them to the next generation.\n\nQueen Victoria was very fond of these portraits as they allowed her to give the public a look at her loving family life and the comforts of home in a tasteful manner. The craze was thereby spread throughout the Royal Families of Europe. Due to the number of lavishly decorated palaces they possessed (The Winter Palace, Tsarskoye Selo, Gatchina Palace, Peterhof Palace, Pavlovsk Palace...), the Tsars were among the most enthusiastic commissioners of interior portraits. Virtually all of their rooms (except the most private ones) were rendered at least once; some several times. These watercolors are considered to be among the best of their genre.\n\nAt a time when every cultured young woman learned to paint watercolors, many painted their own rooms or the ones where they were given their lessons. Most of the surviving examples are anonymous and rarely of high quality, but they often have a charm that compensates for what they lack in technical expertise.\n\nHowever, some members of the aristocracy had real talent, verging on the professional. The Polish Count Artur Potocki, for example, travelled widely, painting watercolors of the hotel rooms and other places where he stayed, from Rome to London.\n\nNevertheless, virtually all the highest-quality works were produced by professionals with exceptional virtuosity in watercolors and a mastery of perspective...especially conical perspective, with two or three vanishing points, which produces an eerily photographic effect for modern eyes.\n\nWith only a few exceptions, such as Jean-Baptiste Isabey and Eugène Lami of France, architect John Nash and furniture-maker Thomas Sheraton (both of England), few artists who dealt exclusively with these portraits are still familiar today. Among some notable artists who produced them, not previously mentioned:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54973160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54973160", "title": "Jeremiah Terminator LeRoy", "text": "Jeremiah Terminator LeRoy\n\nJeremiah Terminator LeRoy is a film directed by Justin Kelly based on the memoir \"Girl Boy Girl: How I Became JT Leroy\" by Savannah Knoop. It stars Laura Dern, Kristen Stewart, and Diane Kruger.\n\nIt had its world premiere as the Closing Night Film of the 2018 Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nSavannah Knoop spends six years masquerading as writer Laura Albert's literary persona JT LeRoy.\n\n\nOn February 9, 2016, it was reported that Kristen Stewart, James Franco, and Helena Bonham Carter were circling the film \"JT LeRoy\". Justin Kelly would direct the film based on Savannah Knoop's memoir \"Girl Boy Girl: How I Became JT Leroy\". On March 22, 2017, it was reported that Laura Dern was in talks to join the film. Dern would play Laura Albert alongside Stewart as Knoop. On May 16, 2017, Diane Kruger joined the cast. On May 23, 2017, Jim Sturgess joined the cast. Before the film was fully financed, a skeleton crew attended the 2017 Cannes Film Festival to obtain some necessary footage. As of August 1, 2017, the film had begun principal photography in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. Kelvin Harrison Jr., Courtney Love, and James Jagger also joined the cast. As of August 18, 2017, \"JT LeRoy\" had wrapped filming.\n\nIt had its world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 15, 2018. \n"}
{"id": "6275161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6275161", "title": "Kaitiaki", "text": "Kaitiaki\n\nKaitiaki is a New Zealand term used for the Māori concept of guardianship, for the sky, the sea, and the land. A kaitiaki is a guardian, and the process and practices of protecting and looking after the environment are referred to as kaitiakitanga.\n\nThe concept and terminology have been increasingly brought into public policy on trusteeship or guardianship—in particular with the environmental and resource controls under the Resource Management Act.\n\nThe long-established Māori system of environmental management is holistic. It is a system that ensures peace within the environment, providing a process of, as well as preventing intrusions that cause permanent imbalances and guards against environmental damage. Kaitiakitanga is a concept that has \"roots deeply embedded in the complex code of tikanga”. Kaitiakitanga is a broad notion which includes the following ideas: guardianship, care, wise management. However, while kaitiakitanga is a proactive and preventative approach to environmental management, this traditional management system has not always had an opportunity to address large scale environmental degradation.\n\nTraditionally all Māori trace their ancestry to the beginning of existence, the single entity that became Ranginui and Papatūānuku. Ranginui became the sky and Papatūānuku the mother earth, with their children taking the form of the various physical elements that humans eventually emerged from. This genealogy is a bond between humans and the rest of the physical world both \"immutable and inseparable\". Papatūānuku, embodied in the physical form of the earth continues to provide sustenance for all. Accordingly, Māori read more into the interpretation of kaitiakitanga than just the surface meaning of the words translated into English.\n\nA number of government act provides for recognition of Treaty of Waitangi and kaitiakitanga, including the Conservation Act 1987, though perhaps most importantly is the Resource Management Act 1991 (RMA) and its amendments. Under Section 7 of the RMA all individuals exercising functions and powers in relation to managing the use, development and protection of natural and physical resources are required to “have particular regard” to kaitiakitanga amongst others. \nThrough the RMA the concept of kaitiakitanga has been given a statutory definition. This definition of kaitiakitanga was given within the RMA in section 2(1) as “the exercise of guardianship; and in relation to a resource, includes the ethic of stewardship based on the nature of the resource itself”. However, opposition to this definition and interpretation resulted in this being amended in the Resource Management Amendment Act 1997 to “the exercise of guardianship by the tāngata whenua of an area in accordance with tikanga Māori in relation to natural and physical resources; and includes the ethics of stewardship”. Despite this definition in RMA, it is the Papatipu Rūnanga holding manawhenua tribal authority over a particular area or resource that will be able to determine the characteristics of kaitiakitanga and how this will be expressed. In addition to the RMA, the New Zealand Fisheries Act 1996, Part 9, provides for customary fisheries management, without directly identifying this management as kaitiakitanga.\n\nFurther, there is the role of Tangata Tiaki who are chosen by iwi and hapū groups and appointed by the Ministry of Fisheries to act as guardians for a specific area. Tangata Tiaki are responsible for issuing permits to catch fish in their area for customary use and must report these catches to the Ministry of Fisheries so that the following year’s catch limits can be set allowing for customary use beyond the recreational fishing bag-limits. Tangata Tiaki/Kaitiaki may decide to develop management plans for the fisheries within their rōhe for approval by the local tāngata whenua. For the purposes of the RMA these plans are called \"Iwi Planning Documents\", there being requirement for these plans to be considered in any resource management planning. Under the Fisheries Act, plans can also be used for the development of sustainability measures for those fisheries in the rōhe of the tāngata whenua. Moreover, a kaitiaki has a dual responsibility: firstly, the aim of protecting the mauri; and secondly, the duty to pass the environment to future generations in a state which is as good as, or better than, the current state.\n\nUnder the RMA all those exercising power have a mandatory obligation to recognise and make provision for Māori cultural values in all aspects of resource management when preparing and administering regional and district plans, this includes the mandated Coastal Policy Statement. There is a requirement within the RMA for at least one New Zealand coastal policy statement to be in effect at all times. Thus, with consideration of kaitiakitanga in New Zealand legislation, the practical significance of kaitiakitanga in coastal resource management can be explored. In particular, Policy 2 of the 2010 New Zealand Coastal Policy Statement\n\nThis calls for coastal managers to take into account a number of aspects regarding tāngata whenua concerns regarding the coastal environment. This includes providing tāngata whenua opportunities to exercise kaitiakitanga “over waters, forests, lands, and fisheries in the coastal environment”. This includes among others to provide opportunities for Māori involvement in decision making, such as to “take into account any relevant iwi resource management plan and any other relevant planning document recognised by the appropriate iwi authority or hapū”. Any iwi resource management plan needs to be lodged with a relevant regional or district council. Further, councils are also required to consider practical assistance to those iwi or hapū who have indicated a wish to develop iwi resource management plans.\n\nThe Fisheries Act 1996, under Part 9 and in particular Section 186, and South Island Customary Fisheries Regulations 1999 provides for a number of legal tools derived from traditional kaitiakitanga methods for sustainability that may be applied by local iwi in relation to customary fishing rights and assist local iwi in the sustainable management and protection of their traditional mahinga kai gathering sites.\n\nA taiāpure identifies an area that, as a source of food or for spiritual or cultural reasons, has customarily been of special significance to an iwi or hapū. The purpose of acknowledging a taiāpure is to provide improved provision for recognising rangatiratanga and the fisheries rights secured under the Article 2 of the Treaty of Waitangi. A management committee for a taiāpure is appointed by the Minister of Fisheries with the members of the committee being nominated by the tāngata whenua. The taiāpure management committee has the role of recommending regulations that allow a taiāpure to be managed for the conservation and management of the fish, aquatic life, or seaweed in the taiāpure-local fishery and to allow the taiāpure function according to custom.\n\nRegulations may be related to the following: a. the species of fish, aquatic life or seaweed that may be taken, b. the quantity of each species that may be taken, c. the dates or seasons that each species may be taken, the size limits relating to each species that may be taken, d. the method by which each species may be taken and e. the area or areas in which each species may be taken.\n\nMātaitai are reserves where the tāngata whenua manage all non-commercial fishing by making bylaws, which apply equally to all individuals having been approved by the Minister of Fisheries. Such reserves identify places of importance for customary food gathering and these reserves can only be applied for over traditional fishing grounds, and must be areas of special significance to the tāngata whenua. Commercial fishing is prohibited within these reserves. Tāngata whenua appoint tānagata tiaki to manage mātaitai, which a tāngata tiaki does by creating the bylaws.\n\nA rāhui is a temporary closure. A temporary closure is allowed for under Section 186 of the Fisheries Act 1996 and provides for fishing to cease or be restricted in New Zealand waters of the South Island as part of the Ngāi Tahu Claims Settlement Act 1998. The purpose of a rāhui is to improve the size and/or availability of fish stocks, or to recognise their use and management by tāngata whenua. However, under Section 186b of the Fisheries Act 1996 a temporary closure may not be in force beyond 2 years after the date of its notification, but the rāhui may be extended beyond the two-year period. A rahui can be applied for and emplaced for any particular seasons, months, weeks, days or dates.\n\nKaikōura is a small coastal community on the east coast of the South Island of New Zealand with a long history of coastal resource use and remains an important component of the identity of the local tāngata whenua. Manawhenua (tribal authority) over this area is held by Ngāti Kuri, one of 18 Ngāi Tahu papatipu rūnanga, and have had increased opportunities to develop a local community management strategy, incorporating socio-cultural values along with those of the biophysical. This has been done in cooperation with government, fisheries stakeholders and community agencies. There are a number of issues on tāngata whenua values including water quality issues impacting on kai moana being faced by this Rūnanga that stem from tourism, fishing and other resource uses.\n\nIn order to provide a framework for the Rūnanga to effectively apply tangata whenua values and policies to natural resource and environmental management in the areaTe Rūnanga o Kaikōura developed Te Poha o Toha Raumati: Te Runanga o Kaikoura Environmental Management Plan (Te Poha). The plan took effect from 2005. Te Poha provides a written statement that consolidates Ngāti Kuri values, knowledge and perspectives on natural resource and environmental management issues, including the coastal marine area and is an expression of kaitiakitanga. \nThe plan has a number of stated purposes: to describe the values underpinning the relationship between Ngāti Kuri and the natural environment, to identify the primary issues associated with natural resource and environmental management within the takiwā, articulate Te Rūnanga o Kaikōura policies and management guidelines for natural resource and environmental management,including the coastal environment, and to provide continuity between the past, the present and the future. All these purposes are intended to be viewed and be consistent with Ngāti Kuri values. \nFurther, the stated purpose of this plan is to provide a tool for Te Rūnanga o Kaikōura to not only effectively and proactively apply Ngāti Kuri values to the management of natural resources, wāhi tapu and wāhi taonga, but also to give assistance to local, territorial and national authorities to understand Ngāti Kuri values and perspectives, and fulfil their statutory obligations under the Resource Management Act 1991, Conservation Act 1987 and other environmental legislation.\n\nIn addition to the Environmental Management Plan there is the Kaikōura Marine Strategy developed by Te Korowai o Te Tai ō Marokura (Kaikōura Coastal Marine Guardians) and is currently in proposal form. Te Korowai membership is not only that of Te Rūnanga o Kaikōura, but also local organisations involved at differing levels of responsibility such as Te Rūnanga o Ngāi Tahu and Kaikōura District Council and various concerned government ministries and interest groups. It is this inclusion of local, regional and national organisations that strengthens the opportunities for Ngāti Kuri values and kaitiakitanga principles to be supported in any proposed implementations in the frequently socially and politically contentious coastal environment. \nBased from local knowledge and best available science the Kaikoura Marine Strategy has a vision formed around four outcomes and four “cross cutting implementation actions”. These outcomes are fishing for abundance, protecting local treasures, living sustainably and sustaining customary practices with the implementation actions being engaging understanding, governance, compliance and monitoring and review.\n\nFor the tāngata whenua of this coastal area there has been concern over the prevalence of black market and poaching of fish and other seafood in the Kaikōura area. Further, with no fisheries officer based in Kaikōura it is the local community that have been mostly required to monitor the fishing in the area. Due to the pressures from the combination of recreational, commercial and customary harvesters depleting fish stocks a section 186b temporary closure as a form of rāhui was proposed and emplaced on the Waiōpuka reef area of the Kaikōura Peninsula, see figure 2. This rahui has been renewed three times and has been very successful.\n\nThe term kaitiaki is increasingly used in New Zealand for broader roles of trusteeship or guardianship—especially in public sector organisations, as these examples demonstrate:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42793927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42793927", "title": "Kinmen Folk Culture Village", "text": "Kinmen Folk Culture Village\n\nThe Kinmen Folk Culture Village () is a cultural center in Jinsha Township, Kinmen County, Fujian Province, Republic of China.\n\nThe culture village was designed by an architect from Jiangxi and built by Wang Kuo-jeng, a successful businessman who created his wealth while he was in Japan. The construction started in 1876 and it took 25 years to complete all buildings in this area in the year 1900. During the martial law period, the village was renovated to become a folk culture village and later in 1995 was included into the Kinmen National Park. It was the first village in Kinmen which was turned into a tourist destination.\n\nThe culture village has the most complete range of types of Fujian buildings and consists of 18 house buildings, which are 16 symmetrical two-courtyard historic houses, an ancestral shrine and a school academy. All of the buildings were built on the hillside facing the sea in three orderly rows.\n\n"}
{"id": "4725686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4725686", "title": "Middle Awash", "text": "Middle Awash\n\nThe Middle Awash is an archaeological site along the Awash River in Ethiopia's Afar Depression. A number of fossils of the earliest hominins, particularly of the \"Australopithecines\", as well as some of the oldest known Olduwan stone artifacts, have been found at the site—all of late Miocene, the Pliocene, and the very early Pleistocene times, that is, about 5.6 million years ago (mya) to 2.5 mya. It is broadly thought that the divergence of the lines of the earliest humans (hominins) and of chimpanzees (hominids) was completed near the beginning of that time range, or sometime between seven and five mya. However, the larger community of scientists provide several estimates for periods of divergence that imply a greater range for this event, \"see\" CHLCA: human-chimpanzee split.\n\nA recent find of \"Australopithecus anamensis\" is dated to about 4.2 million years ago, which separates it only 200 thousand years from an earlier fossil of the more primitive \"Ardipithecus ramidus\" (at 4.4 million years ago). \"Australopithecus garhi\" fossils are dated as recent as the very early Pleistocene, or 2.5 mya; fossils of \"Homo erectus\" in the Daka member at the site (at 1 mya) and \"Homo sapiens idaltu\" (at 160 ka ago) are found in the middle and late Pleistocene. And patches of fire-baked clay, disputed as evidences of the controlled use of fire, are also found in that later period.\n\nSediments at the site were originally deposited in lakes or rivers, and carbonates found there contain low carbon isotope ratios. This information suggests that the environment of the Middle Awash was wet during the late Miocene, and that this currently arid region was occupied then by woodland or grassy woodland habitats. Fossil remains of other vertebrates found with the hominins, including the cane rat, further suggest such an environment. The region was the site of periodic volcanism, which probably created distinct ecological regions inhabited by different species of vertebrate animals.\n\nImportant hominin fossils found in the Middle Awash include:\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "15991282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15991282", "title": "Missions Héliographiques", "text": "Missions Héliographiques\n\nMissions Héliographiques was a 19th-century project to photograph landmarks and monuments around France so that they could be restored.\n\nThe project was established by Prosper Mérimée, France's Inspector General of Historical Monuments and author of \"Carmen\", in 1851. The intent was to supplement Monument historique, a program Mérimée started in 1837 to classify, protect and restore French landmarks. Mérimée hired Edouard Baldus, Hippolyte Bayard, Gustave Le Gray, Henri Le Secq and Auguste Mestral to carry out the photography, with the aim that architect Eugène Viollet-le-Duc could eventually restore them.\n\nAlthough the daguerrotype originated in France, Mérimée preferred the calotype, which offered more detailed textures.\n\nMestral and Le Gray photographed areas southwest from Paris, Le Secq the north and east. Bayard, who chose to work with glass negatives instead of paper, went west to Brittany and Normandy. Baldus covered the south and east, including the Palace of Fontainebleau.\n\nWhile several of the images are classic examples of early photography, the overall results did not meet requirements, often portraying the decaying buildings artistically and obscuring their need for restoration.\n"}
{"id": "1643175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1643175", "title": "Mititei", "text": "Mititei\n\nMititei () or mici (, both Romanian words meaning \"small ones\") is a traditional Romanian dish of grilled ground meat rolls made from a mixture of beef, lamb and pork with spices, such as garlic, black pepper, thyme, coriander, anise, savory, and sometimes a touch of paprika. Sodium bicarbonate and broth or water are also added to the mixture. It is similar to ćevapi.\n\nIt is often served with french fries, mustard and \"murături\" (Romanian pickled vegetables).\n\n"}
{"id": "976531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=976531", "title": "Outline (list)", "text": "Outline (list)\n\nAn outline, also called a hierarchical outline, is a list arranged to show hierarchical relationships and is a type of tree structure. An outline is used to present the main points (in sentences) or topics (terms) of a given subject. Each item in an outline may be divided into additional sub-items. If an organizational level in an outline is to be sub-divided, it shall have at least two subcategories, as advised by major style manuals in current use. An outline may be used as a drafting tool of a document, or as a summary of the content of a document or of the knowledge in an entire field. It is not to be confused with the general context of the term \"outline\", which a summary or overview of a subject, presented verbally or written in prose (for example, \"The Outline of History\" is not an outline of the type presented below). The outlines described in this article are lists, and come in several varieties.\n\nA sentence outline is a tool for composing a document, such as an essay, a paper, a book, or even an encyclopedia. It is a list used to organize the facts or points to be covered, and their order of presentation, by section. Topic outlines list the subtopics of a subject, arranged in levels, and while they can be used to plan a composition, they are most often used as a summary, such as in the form of a table of contents or the topic list in a college course's syllabus.\n\nOutlines are further differentiated by the index prefixing used, or lack thereof. Many outlines include a numerical or alphanumerical prefix preceding each entry in the outline, to provide a specific path for each item, to aid in referring to and discussing the entries listed. An alphanumerical outline uses alternating letters and numbers to identify entries. A decimal outline uses only numbers as prefixes. An outline without prefixes is called a \"bare outline\".\n\nSpecialized applications of outlines also exist. A reverse outline is a list of sentences or topics that is created from an existing work, as a revision tool; it may show the gaps in the document's coverage so that they may be filled, and may help in rearranging sentences or topics to improve the structure and flow of the work. An integrated outline is a composition tool for writing scholastic works, in which the sources, and the writer's notes from the sources, are integrated into the outline for ease of reference during the writing process.\n\nA software program designed for processing outlines is called an outliner.\n\nOutlines are differentiated by style, the inclusion of prefixes, and specialized purpose. There are also hand-written outlines (which are highly limited in utility), and digitized outlines, such as those contained within an outliner (which are much more useful).\n\nThere are two main styles of outline: sentence outlines and topic outlines.\n\nPropædia is the historical attempt of the Encyclopædia Britannica to present a hierarchical \"Outline of Knowledge\" in a separate volume in the 15th edition of 1974. The \"Outline of Knowledge\" was a project by Mortimer Adler. Propædia had three levels, 10 \"Parts\" at the top level, 41 \"Divisions\" at the middle level and 167 \"Sections\" at the bottom level, numbered, for example, \"1. Matter and Energy\", \"1.1 Atoms\", \"1.1.1. Structure and Properties of Atoms\".\n\nA feature included in many outlines is prefixing. Similar to section numbers, an outline prefix is a label (usually alphanumeric or numeric) placed at the beginning of an outline entry to assist in referring to it.\n\nBare outlines include no prefixes.\n\nAn \"alphanumeric outline\" includes a prefix at the beginning of each topic as a reference aid. The prefix is in the form of Roman numerals for the top level, upper-case letters (in the alphabet of the language being used) for the next level, Arabic numerals for the next level, and then lowercase letters for the next level. For further levels, the order is started over again. Each numeral or letter is followed by a period, and each item is capitalized, as in the following sample:\n\nSome call the Roman numerals \"A-heads\" (for \"A-level headings\"), the upper-case letters, \"B-heads\", and so on. Some writers also prefer to insert a blank line between the A-heads and B-heads, while often keeping the B-heads and C-heads together.\n\nIf more levels of outline are needed, lower-case Roman numerals and numbers and lower-case letters, sometimes with single and double parenthesis can be used, although the exact order is not well defined, and usage varies widely.\n\nThe scheme recommended by the \"MLA Handbook\", and the \"Purdue Online Writing Lab\", among others, uses the usual five levels, as described above, then repeats the Arabic numerals and lower-case letter surrounded by parentheses (round brackets) – I. A. 1. a. i. (1) (a) – and does not specify any lower levels, though \"(i)\" is usually next. In common practice, lower levels yet are usually Arabic numerals and lowercase letters again, and sometimes lower-case Roman again, with single parentheses – 1) a) i) – but usage varies. MLA style is sometimes incorrectly referred to as APA style, but the \"APA Publication Manual\" does not address outline formatting at all.\n\nA very different style recommended by \"The Chicago Manual of Style\", based on the practice of the United States Congress in drafting legislation, suggests the following sequence, from the top to the seventh level (the only ones specified): I. A. 1. \"a\") (1) (\"a\") \"i\") – capital Roman numerals with a period, capital letters with a period, Arabic numerals with a period, italic lowercase letters with a single parenthesis, Arabic numerals with a double parenthesis, italic lowercase letters with a double parenthesis, and italic lowercase Roman numerals with a single parentheses, though the italics are not required). Because of its use in the US Code and other US law books, Many American lawyers consequently use this outline format.\n\nAnother alternative scheme repeats all five levels with a single parenthesis for the second five – I) A) 1) a) i) – and then again with a double parenthesis for the third five – (I) (A) (1) (a) (i).\n\nMany oft-cited style guides besides the \"APA Publication Manual\", including the \"AP Stylebook\", the \"NYT Manual\", Fowler, \"The Guardian\" Style Guide, and Strunk & White, are curiously silent on the topic.\n\nOne side effect of the use of both Roman numerals and uppercase letters in all of these styles of outlining is that in most alphabets, \"I.\" may be an item at both the top (A-head) and second (B-head) levels. This is usually not problematic because lower level items are usually referred to hierarchically. For example, the third sub-sub-item of the fourth sub-item of the second item is item II. D. 3. So, the ninth sub-item (letter-I) of the first item (Roman-I) is item I. I., and only the top level one is item I.\n\nThe \"decimal outline\" format has the advantage of showing how every item at every level relates to the whole, as shown in the following sample outline:\n\nSpecial types of outlines include reverse outlines and integrated outlines.\n\nA \"reverse outline\" is an outline made from an existing work. Reverse outlining is like reverse engineering a document. The points or topics are extracted from the work, and are arranged in their order of presentation, by section, in the outline. Once completed, the outline can be filled in and rearranged as a plan for a new improved version of the document.\n\nAn \"integrated outline\" is a helpful step in the process of organizing and writing a scholarly paper (literature review, research paper, thesis or dissertation). When completed the integrated outline contains the relevant scholarly sources (author's last name, publication year, page number if quote) for each section in the outline. An integrated outline is generally prepared after the scholar has collected, read and mastered the literature that will be used in the research paper. Shields and Rangarajan (2013) recommend that new scholars develop a system to do this. Part of the system should contain a systematic way to take notes on the scholarly sources. These notes can then be tied to the paper through the integrated outline. This way the scholar reviews all of the literature before the writing begins.\n\nAn integrated outline can be a helpful tool for people with writer's block because the content of the paper is organized and identified prior to writing. The structure and content is combined and the author can write a small section at a time. The process is less overwhelming because it can be separated into manageable chunks. The first draft can be written using smaller blocks of time.\n\nFor a comparison, see Outliners, below.\n\nOutlines are used for composition, summarization, and as a development and storage medium.\n\n\"Merriam-Webster's manual for writers and editors\" (1998, p. 290) recommends that the section headings of an article should when read in isolation, combine to form an outline of the article content. Garson (2002) distinguishes a 'standard outline', presented as a regular table of contents from a refined tree-like 'hierarchical outline', stating that \"such an outline might be appropriate, for instance, when the purpose is taxonomic (placing observed phenomena into an exhaustive set of categories). ... hierarchical outlines are rare in quantitative writing, and the researcher is well advised to stick to the standard outline unless there are compelling reasons not to.\"\n\nWriters of fiction and creative nonfiction, such as Jon Franklin, may use outlines to establish plot sequence, character development and dramatic flow of a story, sometimes in conjunction with free writing.\n\nPreparation of an outline is an intermediate step in the process of writing a scholarly research paper, literature review, thesis or dissertation. A special kind of outline (integrated outline) incorporates scholarly sources into the outline before the writing begins.\n\nIn addition to being used as a composition tool during the drafting process, outlines can also be used as a publishing format. Outlines can presented as work's table of contents, but they can also be used as the body of a work. The \"Outline of Knowledge\" from the 15th edition of the \"Encyclopedia Britannica\" is an example of this. Wikipedia includes outlines that summarize subjects (for example, see Outline of chess, Outline of Mars, and Outline of knowledge).\n\nProfessors often hand out to their students at the beginning of a term, a summary of the subjects to be covered throughout the course in the form of a topic outline. It may also be included as part of a larger course synopsis.\n\nOutlines are also used to summarize talking points for a speech or lecture.\n\nOutlines, especially those used within an outliner, can be used for planning, scheduling, and recording.\n\nAn outliner (or \"outline processor\") is a specialized type of word processor used to view, create, build, modify, and maintain outlines. It is a computer program, or part of one, used for displaying, organizing, and editing hierarchically arranged text in an outline's tree structure. Textual information is contained in discrete sections called \"nodes\", which are arranged according to their topic-subtopic (parent-child) relationships, sort of like the members of a family tree. When loaded into an outliner, an outline may be collapsed or expanded to display as few or as many levels as desired.\n\nOutliners are used for storing and retrieving textual information, with terms, phrases, sentences, or paragraphs attached to a tree. So rather than being arranged by document, information is arranged by topic or content. An outline in an outliner may contain as many topics as desired. This eliminates the need to have separate documents, as outlines easily include other outlines just by adding to the tree.\n\nThe main difference between a hand-written outline and a digital one, is that the former is usually limited to a summary or blueprint of a planned document, while the latter may easily include all of the content of the entire document and many more. In other words, as a hand-written work an outline is a writing tool, but on a computer, it is a general purpose format supported by a robust development and display medium capable of handling knowledge from its creation to its end use.\n\nOutliners may be used in content creation instead of general word processors for capturing, organizing, editing, and displaying knowledge or general textual information. Outliners are ideal for managing lists, organizing facts and ideas, and for writing computer programs. They are also used for goal and task management (including personal information management and project management), and for writing books and movie scripts.\n\nThe graphical counterpart to outliners are mind mappers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2086634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2086634", "title": "Paper bag", "text": "Paper bag\n\nA paper bag is a bag made of paper, usually kraft paper. Paper bags are commonly used as shopping bags, packaging, and sacks.\n\nIn 1852, Francis Wolle, a schoolteacher, invented the first machine to mass-produce paper bags. Wolle and his brother patented the machine and founded the Union Paper Bag Company.\nIn 1871, inventor Margaret E. Knight designed a machine that could create flat-bottomed paper bags, which could carry more than the previous envelope-style design.\n\nIn 1883, Charles Stilwell patented a machine that made square-bottom paper bags with pleated sides, making them easier to fold and store. This style of bag came to be known as the S.O.S., or \"Self-Opening Sack\".\n\nIn 1912, Walter Deubener, a grocer in St. Paul, Minnesota, used cord to reinforce paper bags and add carrying handles. These \"Deubener Shopping Bags\" could carry up to 75 pounds at a time, and became quite popular, selling over a million bags a year by 1915. Paper bags with handles later became the standard for department stores, and were often printed with the store's logo or brand colors.\n\nPlastic bags were introduced in the 1970s, and thanks to their lower cost, eventually replaced paper bags as the bag of choice for grocery stores. With the trend towards phasing out lightweight plastic bags, though, some grocers and shoppers have switched back to paper bags.\n\nIn 2015, the world's largest paper shopping bag was made in the UK and recorded by Guinness World Records.\n\nStandard brown paper bags are made from kraft paper. Tote-style paper bags, such as those often used by department stores or as gift bags, can be made from any kind of paper, and come in any color. Paper bags can be made from recycled paper, with some local laws requiring bags to have a minimum percentage of post-consumer recycled content.\n\nLitho – printed for the best result. Very nice and sharp colors can be printed by lithographic technique in production of laminated paper bags.\n\nPaper shopping bags, brown paper bags, grocery bags, paper bread bags and other light duty bags have a single layer of paper. A variety of constructions and designs are available. Many are printed with the names of stores and brands. Paper bags are not waterproof. Types of paper bag are: laminated, twisted, flat tap. The laminated bag, whilst not totally waterproof, has a laminate that protects the outside to some degree.\n\nMultiwall (or multi-wall) paper sacks or shipping sacks are often used as shipping containers for bulk materials such as fertilizer, animal feed, sand, dry chemicals, flour and cement. Many have several layers of sack papers, printed external layer and inner plies. Some paper sacks have a plastic film, foil, or polyethylene coated paper layer in between as a water-repellant, insect resistant, or rodent barrier.\n\nThere are two basic designs of bags: open mouth bags and valve bags. An open mouth bag is a tube of paper plies with the bottom end sealed. The bag is filled though the open mouth and then closed by stitching, adhesive, or tape. Valve sacks have both ends closed and are filled through a valve. A typical example of a valve bag is the cement sack.\n\nPaper bags are readily recyclable. Plastic or water-resistant coatings or layers make recycling more difficult.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46365478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46365478", "title": "Pint of Science", "text": "Pint of Science\n\nPint of Science is a science festival that aims to communicate contemporary scientific developments to the public in an interesting, engaging and approachable way by bringing scientists to the pub and other accessible places. The festival takes place annually in the month of May and covers all aspects of research which are themed under the titles 'Beautiful Mind', 'Atoms to Galaxies', 'Our Body', 'Planet Earth', 'Tech Me Out' and 'Our Society'.\n\nThe 2018 Pint of Science festival took place in nearly 300 cities in 21 countries. It is mainly run by volunteer postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers who are based at universities.\n\nPint of Science has its roots in a 2012 initiative by a group of UK based postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers. Festival founders Dr. Michael Motskin and Dr. Praveen Paul were then researching different neurodegenerative conditions at Imperial College London and thought that there was a gap between their research efforts and what motivated them. In addition, when discussing their work with friends, especially some of the new techniques being used, such as nanoparticle delivery of drugs to the brain, their friends thought it sounded like science fiction. They felt that it was important to show how scientists conduct research, especially to the individuals and families affected by the conditions that they were working on.\n\nIn September 2012, they organised ‘Meet the Researchers’, an event that brought people affected by Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, motor neuron disease, and multiple sclerosis into their labs so that they could see the research being carried out there. They said afterwards: \"The guests were fascinated by the approaches being used to try to understand the biological basis of these afflictions and by the latest developments in both basic research and translational efforts. This event was inspirational to everyone involved - researchers and visitors alike. We thought that, if people want to come to labs to meet scientists, why not bring scientists to people? This was the birth of Pint of Science.\" After running the first festival in May 2013 in three cities, Pint of Science received many emails from people wanting to join the festival - both around the UK and the rest of the world.\n\nThere is no fixed format and freedom is given to the local organisers for how events are run. Rather than a series of formal talks, Pint of Science aims to recreate the buzz of popular music festivals, offering multiple stages across each city that allow leading experts in various scientific fields to present, discuss and take questions on their latest discoveries and research with members of the public. The events aim to have an interactive element, for example involving a range of robots.\n\nThe Cambridge, UK Pint of Science team started 'Creative Reactions' - a collaboration between artists and Pint of Science scientists to produce artworks related to the science presented at the talks. They matched artists with their 50 speakers in Pint of Science Cambridge. The artists create a unique piece of art based on their interpretations of the scientific subjects in various forms of art such as illustrations, painting, jewellery, screen-printing, film, dance and more. The result of the collaboration was displayed in the very first Creative Reactions exhibition at the end of the 2015 festival, which had over 700 visitors in Cambridge. Creative Reactions has since expanded to further cities in the UK.\n\nPint of Science was awarded Points of Light by UK Prime Minister David Cameron in November 2015 and the founders were interviewed about it on London Live television.\n\nImperial College London awarded Pint of Science the \"President's Inspirational Partner Award for Excellence in Societal Engagement\" in June 2017.\n"}
{"id": "2396489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2396489", "title": "Raven Tales", "text": "Raven Tales\n\nRaven Tales are the traditional people and animals creation stories of the indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest Coast but are also found among Athabaskan-speaking peoples and others. Raven stories exist in nearly all of the First Nations throughout the region but are most prominent in the tales of the Tlingit and Tahltan people.\n\nRaven and eagle are known by many different names by many different peoples and is an important figure amongst written and verbal stories. His tales are passed down through the generations of story tellers of the people and are of cultural and historical significance. It's important to note that, from some storytellers' perspective, Native myths such as the Raven Tales, as opposed to tall tales and little stories for children, are not entertainment and are cultural property of the clan or individual that the story originates from. It is customary that others should not tell stories that are owned by another clan, especially if they do not live in the same area.\n\nWhile each culture's stories of the Raven are different, there are even those that share the same title; certain attributes of Raven remain the same. The Raven is always a magical creature able to take the form of human, animal, even inanimate objects. He is a keeper of secrets, and a trickster often focused on satisfying his own gluttony for whatever he desires. His stories tell of how worldly things came to be or offer suggestion to children on how to behave. Raven's creative nature shows itself through circumstance rather than intent, through the desire to satisfy his own needs, rather than any altruistic principles. Raven is both the protagonist among the stories of some groups, and the antagonist of others; he is a hero and an amusement.\n\nTales that feature the Raven as the hero are specific to areas in the north of the continent such as northern British Columbia and Alaska and their peoples, such as the Tsimshian and the Haida. Similar tales appear in Chukchi cultures in the north-east of Asia and it is probable that they are influenced by Native American stories.\n\nThe Haida First Nation credits Raven with finding the first humans hiding in a clam shell; he brought them berries and salmon. The Sioux tell of how a white raven used to warn buffalo of approaching hunters. Eventually an angry shaman caught the bird and threw it into a fire, turning it black.\n\nWhile Raven tales tell the origins of human beings, they do not address the origins of organized society. In tales which mirror development and organization of Native American societies, the hero is often humanity itself. Raven tales do not offer a detailed picture about the social relations and realities of life.\n\nAthabaskan is the language family of several contiguous dialects spoken by various peoples in Western Canada and the American West. They can be further subdivided into the Northern Athabaskan, Pacific Coast Athabaskan, and Southern Athabaskan subregions.\n\nThese groups lived in one of the 3 Athabaskan regions.\n\nThe Cahto are an indigenous Californian group of Native Americans. The Kato lived farthest south of all the Athapascans in California, occupying Cahto Valley and Long Valley, and in general the country south of Blue Rock and between the headwaters of the two main branches of Eel River. The Kato language is one of four Athabaskan languages that were spoken in northwestern California. Most Kato speakers were also bilingual in Northern Pomo.\n\nOne version of the Raven creation story is that of the Cahto in California.\nIn one variant, Raven is taught by his father, Kit-ka'ositiyi-qa, to be a creator, but Raven is unsatisfied with the result. He creates the world but is unable to give it light or water. On hearing that light could be found hidden in a far-off land, Raven decides to travel there and steal it. In the house of light, he finds a young woman living with her father and plays the first of many tricks. He turns himself into a small speck of dirt, slips into her drinking water, and is swallowed. The daughter becomes pregnant and she gave birth to an unusual and fussy child who cries constantly and demands to touch one of the bundles which has been stored hanging from the walls. The child is given one of the bags to quiet him, but when he tires of playing with it, he lets it go, and it floats away from him and disappears through the smoke hole. Once it reaches the sky the bundle comes undone and scatters stars across the sky. When the child cries to have it back again he is given the second bundle to play with and lets it float away through the hole in the ceiling, thus releasing the moon. It all happens again with the third and last bundle, which flies away and becomes sunlight. After bringing light to the whole world, he too flies out through the smoke hole.\n\nLocally among the Tahltan people, their customs and livelihoods varied widely as they were often widely separated and would have to endure varying conditions depending on their locality. In Tahltan culture it was believed that some of their ancestors had knowledge that others did not from times before a great flood. Some of these ancestors used that knowledge for the good of the people, while others used it for evil and to the disadvantage of others. Raven is considered to be the protagonist hero against these evil ancestors.\n\nIn Tahltan stories, Raven is referred to as Big-Crow (\"Tse'sketco\" or \"tceski'tco\", \"big raven\" - from \"tceski'a\", \"raven\").\n\nThey claim that Big-Crow was born miraculously as the youngest of many brothers in the northern Tlingit country and was raised speaking the local language. He was separated from his father at birth and his father is never spoken of in all of their stories. Raven was born, the third child of a woman whose previous two boys were killed by her uncle. Each time the woman gave birth, her uncle would offer to teach them to hunt once they were old enough; each time he would take them out on a canoe and trick them, he would instruct the boys to sit on the edge of the canoe, at which point he would rock the canoe, forcing them to fall into the water where he would leave them to drown.\n\nBut her third child was Raven who took well to carving. Just as he'd done 2 times before, her uncle asked if he could teach Raven how to hunt after he'd grown a few years. Several times she refused her uncle until Raven insisted that she allow him to go. So they went out to sea and the same scenario played out. Raven fell into the water but rather than drown, he took one of the toy canoes he had carved and made it grow into a full size canoe. He went straight back to his mother and told of what his uncle had done.\n\nTwice more the uncle tried to drown Raven in the same manner but Raven outsmarted him each time until the uncle gave up and no longer took Raven hunting but would go alone.\n\nAs Raven grew into a man, he met the uncle's wife where he tried to play with her. He tickled the girl and two birds flew out from under her arms, a bluejay and a woodpecker; and the girl died. When the uncle returned from his hunt, he saw that his wife had died and he intended to kill Raven again, but this time in rage rather than trickery. But once again, Raven escaped with his canoe carvings. But when Raven escaped this time, he did not return home and his journey began; never to return to his home.\n\nHe starting off travelling by canoe along the seashore all alone but would stop whenever he came upon a village. When he met people whom he saw take advantage of others or use their power for evil, he would kill in his efforts to deprive them of power.\n\nRaven travelled for many years along the coast of the Tlingit territory, first travelling south, having started in the north until he had gone so far south, beyond Tlingit territory until he reached the Mink people at which point he turned around and continued back the other direction. He did this north south, south north journey for several years. Not until his work along the coast was done, did he head inland along the Stikine river all the way to its source. He also traveled along the Nass, Skeena, and Taku Rivers and all of their many streams never staying in one place for very long and never traveling far off from the water ways. Through his inland journeys he met the Kaska, the Haida, and other nations to the east.\n\nLater in life, when Raven had done all the work he could do, he travelled back out to the coastal regions guided by the setting sun until he disappeared mysteriously. The only suggestion is that he may have gone to live with the Kanu'gu and other ancient gods on an island far out into the ocean where they believed weather was created from.\n\nAs the Raven stories continue after \"The Birth of Raven\", many stories follow:\n\nRaven appears in other stories not directly related to him as well. In the story of the 'Warm and Cold Wind People' it is said that someone, possibly Raven, ordained that the people send out the winds.\n\nHe appears again in the story of \"The Great Flood\", which reaccounts for the killing of the evil ancestors who used their powers to take away the sun, moon, and Dipper which were lost during the flood.\n\nThe Inuit are native to the Canadian Arctic and Greenland. Among Inuit tradition the owl, fish, and raven are of greatest prominence. Ravens are also common in the artwork of the Inuit and they have several stories that tell of Raven's birth which is often juxtaposed with the owl with whom Raven shared a deep friendship.\n\nThe Inuit say that Raven was born out of the darkness. He was weak and lost. As he began traveling aimlessly experiencing the world, he realized that he was the Raven Father, Creator of All Life. Once he realized who he was, he gathered up his strength and flew out of the darkness to a new place which he called earth, but he was still alone, so he decided to create plants. As he flew around exploring this new world, he came upon a man whom the legend claims was the first of the Inuit people. Raven fed the man and taught the man to respect the world around him. Soon after, a woman came to be and Raven taught the both of them how to cloth themselves, build shelter, and make canoes to travel the water. As the two bred and spawned children, Raven cared for their children and educated them as he had done before.\n\nRaven is known as Tulukaruq to the Yupik people and is seen as a culture hero to them who is benevolent and helps the people.\n\nThe Haida people live in British Columbia. To The Haida, Raven was the Bringer of Light and before Raven the world was nothing more than a gigantic flood. Raven was the Maker of Things, as well as the Transformer, Magician and Healer. Raven was bored of the world being nothing but water and decided to fly as the waters receded. Once Raven became hungry, land was formed so he could land and find food. It was at this point he noticed strange sounds coming from a gigantic clam shell. Confused as to the sound, Raven decided he would begin singing to the clam shell in response to its sound, hoping to calm it with his pleasant sounds. Raven did this because he was a beautiful singer. Finally, a small creature emerged from the clam shell. It had long black hair, a round head, brown smooth skin and two legs like Raven but no feathers. This was the first of the First People.\n\nWhen he got bored with them, he considered returning them to their shell, but opted instead to find female counterparts of these male beings. The raven found some female humans trapped in a chiton, freed them, and was entertained as the two sexes met and began to interact. The Raven felt responsible and very protective of them, thus many Haida myths and legends often suggest the raven as a provider to mankind and combine the roles of the creator and the trickster.\n\nThere are other versions that tells of a different creation. When the earth was only sky and water with a single reef that rose out of the water where all of the great beings lived with the greatest of them living at the highest point on the reef and the weakest of them living at the bottom. But Raven flew above them all and could never find a place to land. For that reason he decided to travel to the sky country where he met the Chief's daughter who had recently had a child. While it was dark, Raven possessed the baby and intended to take its place as Raven Child.\n\nOne ancient story told on Haida Gwaii tells about how Raven helped to bring the Sun, Moon, Stars, Fresh Water, and Fire to the world:\n\nOther Haida stories include:\nThe Heiltsuk were formerly known as the Bella Bella people and lived along the central coast of British Columbia. To the Bella Bella Raven was known as the Real Chief or He'mask.as. Raven is revered by them as a benevolent figure. He helps people, but he is also a trickster spirit whose unreflected behavior gets him into trouble.\nAnother story of the Kwakiutl or Kwakwaka'wakw of British Columbia who exposed boys' placentas to ravens to encourage future prophetic visions, thereby associating the raven with prophecy, similar to the traditions of Scandinavia.\n\nThe Miwok are segregated into three distinct groups: the Coast Miwok, the Lake Miwok, and the Interior Miwok which make up the majority of the overall population.\n\nThe Miwok territory is defined by the Maidu to their right, the Yokuts to the left, and the Washoe and Mono behind them. The Interior Miwok faction live primarily on the western side of the Sierra above the lower San Joaquin Valley. The Sierra territory of the Miwok extended from the Cosumnes River on the north to the Fresno on the\nsouth but the other boundaries that are shared with the Yokuts, Wintun, and Maidu have always been a matter of controversy.\n\nAmongst the Northern Miwok of what is now Central California the story of Raven begins with a world covered in water except for a single mountain top where people had gathered during the flooding of the world. As the waters receded the people tried to come down from the mountain but the land was so soft with mud that those that tried would sink into the ground. Wherever a person sank, a raven would come and stand on that spot. One raven at each hole. Once the ground hardened the raven turned into a person, explaining why Miwok are so dark.p101\n\nThe Nuuchahnulth are also known commonly as the Nootka.\n\nThe Ojibwe are also known by other names including Anishinaabe which is the name of their language, Odawa, or Algonquin.\n\nThe Plains Ojibwa, also known as Bûngi Indians, lived on the Long Plains Reserve in Manitoba.\n\nAnother raven story from the Puget Sound region describes the \"Raven\" as having originally lived in the land of spirits (literally \"bird land\") that existed before the world of humans. One day the Raven became so bored with \"bird land\" that he flew away, carrying a stone in his beak. When the Raven became tired of carrying the stone and dropped it, the stone fell into the ocean and expanded until it formed the firmament on which humans now live.\n\nThe Pima are in Arizona.\n\nThe Quileute are a Native American people in western Washington state in the United States, currently numbering approximately 2000. Their language belongs to the Chimakuan family of languages.\n\nThe native name for Raven among the Quileute is Báyaḳ (\"By\"-yuhk).\n\nQuileute Indians were the southernmost group along the Pacific Coast whose mythology included several stories of the Raven. Though the Quileute's primary protagonist was not the Raven, but Kweeti, whose stories can be very closely related to similar stories of the Tlingit involving the Raven.\n\nThe Raven, amongst the Quileute people, is used to tell scary stories to children of how Raven's feet look the way they do; others pursued children to be generous rather than selfish, or to be true to themselves and work hard rather than trying to take shortcuts. In their stories Raven is often punished, or must witness suffering by the people whom he cares for as a result of his trickery.\n\nIn the Quileute story of Duskeah\n\nIn the first story of \"Kweeti\" the story goes \"At Neah Bay he taught them to fish, as all men do. He traversed the whole world.\" which is compared to the Tlingit story \"Raven teaches people their mode of life\".\n\nAgain in the story of the \"Kweeti and the Wolves\", \"Finally, when the wolves had all but caught him, Kweeti urinated and made Ozetta Lake.\" which is compared to \"Raven Creates Rivers\".\n\nBut in one story, Raven and Kweeti meet and Kweed entertains Raven.\n\nThe Coeur d'Alene live in villages along the Coeur d'Alene, St. Joe, Clark Fork and Spokane Rivers; as well as sites on the shores of Lake Coeur d'Alene, Lake Pend Oreille and Hayden Lake, in what is now northern Idaho, eastern Washington and western Montana. \n\nThe Squamish see Raven to be a symbol of the Creator and even to this day is the subject of preachings.\n\nTlingit territory is in Southeast Alaska. Most of their territory is in present-day Canada.\n\nThe Tlingit call Raven Katce'de but it is disputed whether this derives from the name of another place in the region named Kate, meaning \"cedar-bark\" or from Tlingitka, signifying \"man\" or \"people\"\n\nIn Tlingit culture, there are two different raven characters which can be identified, although they are not always clearly differentiated. One is the creator raven, responsible for bringing the world into being and who is sometimes considered to be the individual who brought light to the darkness. The other is the childish raven, always selfish, sly, conniving, and hungry. When the Great Spirit created all things he kept them separate and stored in cedar boxes. The Great Spirit gifted these boxes to the animals who existed before humans. When the animals opened the boxes all the things that comprise the world came into being. The boxes held such things as mountains, fire, water, wind and seeds for all the plants. One such box, which was given to Seagull, contained all the light of the world. Seagull coveted his box and refused to open it, clutching it under his wing. All the people asked Raven to persuade Seagull to open it and release the light. Despite begging, demanding, flattering and trying to trick him into opening the box, Seagull still refused. Raven became angry and frustrated, and stuck a thorn in Seagull's foot. Raven pushed the thorn in deeper until the pain caused Seagull to drop the box. Then out of the box came the sun, moon and stars that brought light to the world and allowed the first day to begin.\n\nRaven continued using such trickery to bring water and stamp people, animals and other features in the world with certain characteristics. Many versions of Raven's theft of water are told but all center on Raven's trickery against the owner of water. In one version Raven leads its owner to believe he has soiled his bed in his sleep and threatens to shame him unless he shares his water with Raven. In another version Raven puts ash on his tongue to fool the owner to believe his extreme thirst is unquenched. Instead of drinking the water Raven collects it in a seal's bladder hidden under his clothes and flees with all of it.\n\nTo the Tsimshian, Raven, was known as Txamsem or \"ganhada\" or the Clever One and was accompanied by a brother named Lagabula or Lazy One.\n\nThe two had been born in a kelp patch and adopted by a Chief's wife and a magical being from the region of Prince Rupert Harbor. At the time of their birth things such as daylight did not yet exist; only dusk. Some records contradict this stating that they were of Gispaxloats origin, born of a Gispaxloats Chief who married a beautiful princess.\n\nAmong their journeys, they traveled to a mountain at the head of the Nass River. Txamsem, who could transform into anything, and often took the form of a human or bird, turned himself into a pine needle and was consumed by the daughter of the Chief who guarded daylight. She then gave birth to him as a baby and the baby cried incessantly to play with daylight. As soon as it was given to the baby in the form of a playful ball, he transformed back into Raven and flew away with it. He traveled back up the Nass River with daylight and released it; immediately lighting up the river and allowing it to spread all over the world.\n\nThe most prominent culture hero for many of the indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest is Raven. There are numerous stories, widely distributed which focus on the Raven myth and his adventures to satisfy his insatiable desire to obtain whatever he wants. The plot of most Raven tales, tell of how Raven is able to use force or trickery to obtain or motivate someone else to relinquish an object he desires. Throughout his many stories, Raven claims daylight, water, fire, the oceans waves, the olachen, salmon, the soil, and even the weather.\n\nThrough the Raven tales, people are able to explain why their surrounding environment was the way it was by linking the Raven or his companions as the cause for why various things in the world come about.\n\nSome stories account for the creation of dangerous animals which were transformed from inanimate objects(No 61. p 572), others suggest that men, animals and objects could be turned to stone.(nos89-93). While other stories suggest how names were attributed to important landmarks, and how significant geographical features came about.\n\nThere is a vague mention that Raven was the ancestor of the Raven Clan, but there are no other direct references between Raven and the ancestry of the Indian people.\n\nThe raven is not a traditional fetish of the Zuni but he, along with the Macaw play a part in the Zuni story of migration and is carved often in their artwork, typically carved from black marble though not exclusively.\n\nThe Zuni consider Raven to be a prankster but without negative characteristics which they associate with the coyote. The Raven's greatest traits are his ability to assist the people in overcoming their failures by offering gentle reminders that anything people have the courage to face, thus too do they have the power to transform.\n\nThere have been many children's and picture books that recount traditional Raven Tales. These new versions have been criticized for portraying a much \"nicer\" Raven with little left from the original greedy trickster. In some stories Raven acts for the good of people and not for himself. In other stories Raven refuses to use force, and sexual themes are edited out. Trickery is in some instances substituted for magic. These newer tales are also written in conventions of Western rather than Native American literature thus conveying the message that native storytellers' ability or style is inferior.\n\nIn 2004, The Smithsonian Institution sponsored Chris Kientz to develop a series of half-hour animated television programs targeted at school children as an entertaining way of educating kids on aboriginal folklore. The show \"Raven Tales\" was produced by New Machine Studios working with producer Winadzi James and aired for two seasons with a total of 26 episodes.\n\nIn 2010, Matt Dembicki produced an anthological graphic novel of the trickster stories, making sure to maintain the cultural integrity of the stories with the help of 21 Native American story-tellers who were paired directly with several graphic designers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "797696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=797696", "title": "Rhymers' Club", "text": "Rhymers' Club\n\nThe Rhymers' Club was a group of London-based male poets, founded in 1890 by W. B. Yeats and Ernest Rhys. Originally not much more than a dining club, it produced anthologies of poetry in 1892 and 1894. They met at the London pub ‘Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese’ in Fleet Street and in the 'Domino Room' of the \"Café Royal\".\n\nThose who took part also included Ernest Dowson, Lionel Johnson, Francis Thompson, Richard Le Gallienne, John Gray, John Davidson, Edwin J. Ellis, Victor Plarr, Selwyn Image, Lord Alfred Douglas, Arthur Cecil Hillier, John Todhunter, G.A. Greene, Arthur Symons, Ernest Radford, and Thomas William Rolleston. Oscar Wilde attended some meetings that were held in private homes. The group as a whole matched quite closely Yeats' retrospective idea of 'the tragic generation', destined for failure and in many cases early death.\n\nAlong with the social element of the Rhymers' Club, they published two volumes of verse. The first, entitled \"The Book of the Rhymers' Club\" was published by Elkin Mathews in 1892. \"The Second Book of the Rhymers' Club\" appeared two years later in 1894, published by the recently merged Elkin Mathews and John Lane. They had print runs of 450 and 650 respectively. Those of the group appearing in these two volumes were: T.W. Rolleston, John Todhunter, W.B. Yeats, Richard Le Gallienne, Lionel Johnson, Arthur Cecil Hillier, Ernest Dowson, Victor Plarr, Ernest Radford, Arthur Symons, G.A. Greene, Edwin J. Ellis, and Ernest Rhys.\n\nThis seemingly dualistic existence of the club (i.e. on one hand meeting informally at the Cheshire Cheese or in private homes; on the other hand producing anthologies of verse) makes determining the club's members rather tricky at times. Indeed, there are certain poets who were known to have attended meetings but never had their verse appear in either of the books. Also, certain poets feature in one book without featuring in the other. What is certain is that all the members were men.\n\nBy the time Arthur Ransome wrote his \"Bohemia in London\" in 1907, the group had already passed into legend: \"... the Rhymer's Club used to meet, to drink from tankards, smoke clay pipes, and recite their own poetry\". In fact, Ransome's research was less than thorough; the group continued to meet in some form until about 1904.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2385382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2385382", "title": "Rule of twelfths", "text": "Rule of twelfths\n\nThe rule of twelfths is an approximation to a sine curve. It can be used as a rule of thumb for estimating a changing quantity where both the quantity and the steps are easily divisible by 12. Typical uses are predicting the height of the tide or the change in day length over the seasons.\n\nThe rule states that over the first period the quantity increases by 1/12. Then in the second period by 2/12, in the third by 3/12, in the fourth by 3/12, fifth by 2/12 and at the end of the sixth period reaches its maximum with an increase of 1/12. The steps are 1:2:3:3:2:1 giving a total change of 12/12. Over the next six intervals the quantity reduces in a similar manner by 1, 2, 3, 3, 2, 1 twelfths.\n\nIn many parts of the world the tides approximate to a semi-diurnal sine curve, that is there are two high- and two low- tides per day. As an estimate then each period equates to an hour, with the tide rising by 1, 2, or 3 twelfths of its total range in each hour. In places where there is only one high and one low water per day, the rule can be used by assuming the steps are 2 hours. If the tidal curve does not approximate to a sine wave then the rule cannot be used. This is important when navigating a boat or a ship in shallow water, and when launching and retrieving boats on slipways on a tidal shore.\n\nThe rule is also useful for estimating the monthly change in sunrise/set and day length. Given the midsummer and midwinter day lengths the day length at any intervening month can be estimated. Alternatively, given the times of either sunrise of sunset and the two solstices the time of rise and set can be found approximately for any day.\n\nIf a tide table gives the information that tomorrow's low water would be at noon and that the water level at this time would be two metres above chart datum, and that at the following high tide the water level would be 14 metres, then the height of water at 3:00 p.m. can be calculated as follows:\n\n\nThis represents only the increase - the total depth of the water (relative to chart datum) will include the 2 m depth at low tide: 6 m + 2 m = 8 metres.\n\nThe calculation can be simplified by adding twelfths together and reducing the fraction beforehand:\n\nIf midwinter sunrise and set are at 09:00 and 15:00, and midsummer at 03:00 and 21:00, the daylight duration will shift by 0:30, 1:00, 1:30, 1:30, 1:00 and 00:30 over the six months from one solstice to the other. Likewise the day length changes by 0:30, 1:00, 1:30, 1:30, 1:00 and 00:30 each month. More equatorial latitudes change by less, but still in the same proportions; more polar by more.\n\nThe rule is a rough approximation only and should be applied with great caution when used for navigational purposes. Officially produced tide tables should be used in preference whenever possible.\n\nThe rule assumes that all tides behave in a regular manner, this is not true of some geographical locations, such as Poole Harbour or the Solent where there are \"double\" high waters or Weymouth Bay where there is a double low water.\n\nThe rule assumes that the period between high and low tides is six hours but this is an underestimate and can vary anyway.\n"}
{"id": "13551945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13551945", "title": "SAVE Britain's Heritage", "text": "SAVE Britain's Heritage\n\nSAVE Britain's Heritage was created in 1975, European Architectural Heritage Year, by a group of journalists, historians, architects, and planners to campaign publicly for endangered historic buildings. Through press releases, leaflets, reports, books and exhibitions, SAVE Britain's Heritage champions the cause of decaying country houses, redundant churches and chapels, disused mills and warehouses, blighted streets and neighbourhoods, cottages and town halls, railway stations, hospitals, military buildings and asylums.\n\nFrom the start, SAVE Britain's Heritage has always placed a special emphasis on the possibilities of alternative uses for historic buildings and has, on a number of occasions, prepared its own schemes for re-use of threatened buildings. On repeated occasions, its proposals have been instrumental in giving threatened buildings a renewed lease of life.\n\nSAVE Britain's Heritage is also very active on the broader issues of preservation policy. Many of its campaigns have altered the way conservation now protects Britain's built heritage. SAVE's attack on insensitive shop fronts contained guidelines now adopted by many local planning authorities, and SAVE Britain's Heritage was the first organisation to campaign for the introduction of the Thirty Year Rule, which now makes outstanding post-war buildings in England and Wales eligible for listing. SAVE Britain's Heritage is a registered charity governed by a board of trustees.\n\nSAVE Britain's Heritage was instrumental in saving buildings such as: \n\nIt is not always successful. Its campaign in 1977 to 1978 to save the Baltic Exchange building and its collection for the nation failed; it was unable to stop the demolition of historic buildings in the City of London to make way for the new Baltic Exchange and could not prevent the disposal of the interior of the Baltic Exchange, which had been damaged by a Provisional Irish Republican Army bomb in 1992. It is currently campaigning to save the General Market Buildings of Smithfield Market on Farringdon Road and the Royal Aircraft Establishment in Farnborough.\n\nIt has also established charitable trusts to restore the following:\n\nSAVE Britain's Heritage has published many campaigning books and leaflets, including: \n\nAdvocating the preservation and reuse of, amongst other things, nonconformist chapels, redundant Anglican churches, Victorian mental hospitals, country houses, their gardens and outbuildings, and industrial buildings.\n\nIt also publishes an action guide, to assist campaigners with setting up their own groups to advocate the case for particular buildings. It maintains an electronic register of around 700 \"buildings at risk\", and publishes a paper version of the register annually.\n\nAn exhibition highlighting the first 30 years of its work was held at the Victoria and Albert Museum in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4660306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4660306", "title": "Samikshavad", "text": "Samikshavad\n\nSamikshavad is the first indigenous art movement in modern India, which started in North India in 1974. It has a different identity from the western movements of art. It is neither affected nor inspired by western art.\n\nIts main source of inspiration is the present social, political, cultural and economic conditions. Its aim is to make the art free from personalized obligations and to socialize it, to change the art from mystery to something having special aim. By this style, the artist tends to expose the corruption prevalent in society and politics, with a language that is symbolic and satirical. This movement has changed the scenario of modern Indian painting in India in the late '70s. A few of the artists who were inspired by this movement were Ravindra Nath Mishra, Hridya Narayan Mishra, Santosh Kumar Singh, Virendra Prasad Singh, Ram Shabd Singh, Raghuvir Sen Dhir, Ved Prakash Mishra, Gopal Madhukar Chaturvedi, Bala Dutt Pandey etc. Prof. Ram Chandra Shukla, Professor and Head of the Department of Painting at Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, at that time, was the initiator and the main source of inspiration for this movement.\n\nSamikshavad is an Indian movement of Modern Art which is opposed to the tendency of Indian artists following the Western trends of Modern Art. Its basic purpose is to help create such an art in the country which has its roots in Indian soil. \"Samiksha\" is a Sanskrit word which means criticism of life and society in which they live. It is also against any type of imitation of the past styles or the present styles of art. A manifesto of the movement was published at the first exhibition of such paintings at the AIFACS Gallery in 1979 at Delhi. The exhibition presented in all, 26 paintings in oil medium. The artists whose works were included in the first exhibition were S/s R.C. Shukla, R.S. Dhir, Santosh Kumar Singh and Ved Prakash Mishra from Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi; Dr. Gopal Madhukar Chaturvedi from Aligarh and Bala Dutt Pandey from Allahabad. The exhibition was inaugurated by the well-known \"young Turk\" Shri Chandra Shekhar, then President of the Janata Party. Since then lots of comments, reviews and articles have come from several of the leading newspapers, weeklies and art journals referring to this movement. Invitations have been received from several parts of India to hold exhibitions there. There is a silent but meaningful whisper in the air about \"Samikshavad\" in Indian art circles. Several illustrated lecture programs on Samikshavad have been sponsored by university art departments at different places. The movement has gained ground in the country and has created a new atmosphere in the field of art for an indigenous development of Indian Modern Art. The only hurdle in the way of Indian art is prejudice, \"purvagrah\" (bias) and misconception. Samikshavad is a modern movement of Indian contemporary art.\n\nThe exhibition at Delhi was visited by thousands of people including well-known artists, art critics, art connoisseurs, journalists and the common people.\n\nModern Western art is either an expression of the artists' inner turmoil and tensions or mere feats of colour and form. Mostly it is aimless or personal fad. Can such art ever become popular and useful to society at large? But capitalist society has accepted it as a form of business transactions. They collect art and sell art just to make capital out of it. In a poor country like India art cannot fulfill that aim. Art can have no other aim but to serve the people, to inspire and educate them, to prepare them for a better life and society. And \"Samikshavad\" aims at that.\n\n\"Samikshavadi\" artists are not at all interested in merely showing feats of colour and form. Colour and form or their composition, in itself that of abstract art, may produce a musical or magical effect, but art cannot survive or thrive on that alone. Such music or magic, if they just remain to be a form of entertainment and do not serve a higher purpose of social uplift, cannot claim to be great art. They may remain in the category of crafts. But those crafts which are not useful like \"witch-craft\" have no place in modern society. Today the so-called Modern Artists who are better than such craftsmen, when called upon to explain the purpose of their art, prattle, \"We create 'Form', 'Colour composition' or 'Symbol'\". They go no further and expect the visitor to appreciate and explain their jargon themselves. Line, form, colour, texture or tones are just elements of the language of art. They cannot be an end in themselves. They have to be used skilfully to serve the purpose of communication or expression. If they fail in this they are just like heaps of useless bricks, sand and cement gathered together. They cannot claim to be purposeful if they do not help in creating a building suitable for human living. \"Samikshavadi\" painters are not interested in showing their excellence of skill or painterly qualities as an end in itself.\n\nThey believe in using simple, direct and powerful language of art to express their ideas and feelings forcefully as witnessed in the folk arts. Painterly qualities or the fineries of art are the fads of a capitalist or feudalistic society; they are not at all needed in the socialistic society.\nSamikshavadi painters use a symbolic language. They express their ideas and feelings through common and powerful symbols. It is because of this that sometimes they are mistaken for Surrealists, which they certainly are not. Surrealists are also supposed to use dream symbols influenced by Freud's dream psychology, and they claimed it to be \"pure psychic automatism through which it is intended to express the true functioning of thought. Thought dictated in the absence of all control exerted by reason\", whereas Samikshavadis use common symbols consciously and rationally to express their desired idea. Surrealist works are mystic and fantastic in nature but a Samikshavadi artist is socially motivated; a Surrealist attitude is highly personal and individual whereas a Samikshavadi attitude is generally impersonal. Surrealism is basically an anti-art movement but Samikshavadi is an art movement suited to the present atmosphere in the country.\n\nIt is generally satirical in nature. The element of satire is its specialty. Up till now the element of satire was generally considered to be a feature of cartoons or caricatures. Never before in the history of Indian art was satire used as an important medium of art expression in the form of painting, as seen in Samikshavadi art. Perhaps satire was not considered to be necessary or advisable in painting because ancient and medieval art was mostly religious, mythological and idealistic. Under the present circumstances and social change art cannot remain only religious. It has tended towards secularism. The Samikshavadi painters are motivated by day-to-day happenings and are sensitive to the political and social conditions in which they live today. The social, political and economic problems of India are depressing. Life is becoming insecure and helpless. Poverty has multiplied. Exploitation is at its height. Under such circumstances artists and writers have to play an important role. They cannot just remain in a dreamland. They have to educate their people and awaken them to be prepared to fight the evils of the society. Satire is a powerful media to bring to bring people back to senses. Satire can give a shock treatment to generate a new energy in the people to face the real problems, to transform the society. Samikshavad aims at that and that is why it has taken a new course which was not commonly used in the field of painting up till now. Their path may appear to the prejudiced person aesthetically unsound but it is socially very promising.\n\nIt is true that Samikshavadi painters are against imagination of any of the past styles or isms of art of the East or the West, but sometimes their work may indicate some influences. This may either be consciously done or just due to past habit, and may disappear after some time. But whatever influences are seen they are generally of a technical nature. Samikshavadi painters are free to choose any technique that serves them in expressing their ideas and feelings powerfully. Some of the Samikshavadis are interested in using techniques of the past Indian Art to become more meaningful and effective. This does not mean that they are tied to any traditional style. Technique and style or \"isms\" are not the same thing.\n\nThe themes of Samikshavadi paintings are taken from social life of the common people. It is not something new. Many artists have done so in the past and are still doing so. In India Amrita Shergil was the first important and powerful painter of social life. Satish Gujral in his early phase also painted social life powerfully. Others have also done it. But there is a difference of approach between them and Samikshavadi painters. Most of the artists have been interested in their day-to-day social life. That also is no doubt important and useful in bringing about social change but Samikshavadi painters are not contented with that only. They have gone a step further. They may show the plight of the people also but they are much more interested in attacking those who are responsible for it. If the causes are exposed the people will be more alert to eradicate them. Their description of the malady suggests lines of treatment. Moreover, Samikshavadi painters are generally interested in conscious symbolic sarcasm which is definitely a new phenomenon in the field of painting. This attitude has been witnessed casually in some form or the other in some of the artists' work in India and abroad, but never before it has come out as a combined movement with this particular purpose. Mostly other painters have been just satisfied in mocking the contemporary life pattern as did the pop artist of the west, which has been nothing but an anti-art attitude, or the Surrealists' like that of Chagall and Richard Hamilton. Bhupen Khokhor of India has followed the same attitude of the pop artist of the West.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15120912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15120912", "title": "Shutter Island", "text": "Shutter Island\n\nShutter Island is a novel by American writer Dennis Lehane, published by Harper Collins in April 2003. A film adaptation was released in February 2010. Lehane has said he sought to write a novel that would be a homage to Gothic settings, B movies, and pulp. He described the novel as a hybrid of the works of the Brontë sisters and the 1956 film \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\". His intent was to write the main characters in a position where they would lack 20th century resources such as radio communications. He also structured the book to be more taut than his previous book, \"Mystic River\".\n\nLehane was inspired by the hospital and grounds on Long Island in Boston Harbor for the model of the hospital and island. Lehane had visited it in the Blizzard of 1978 as a child with his uncle and family.\n\nIn 1954, widower U.S. Marshal Edward \"Teddy\" Daniels and his new partner Chuck Aule go on a ferry boat to Shutter Island, the home of Ashecliffe Hospital for the criminally insane, to investigate the disappearance of a patient, Rachel Solando (who was incarcerated for drowning her three children). She has escaped the hospital and apparently the desolate island, despite being kept in a locked cell under constant supervision.\n\nIn Rachel's room, Teddy and Chuck discover a code that Teddy breaks. He tells Chuck that he believes the code points to a 67th patient, when records show only 66. Teddy also reveals that he wants to avenge the death of his wife Dolores, who was murdered two years prior by a man called Andrew Laeddis, who he believes is an inmate in Ashecliffe Hospital. The novel is interspersed with graphic descriptions of World War II and Dachau which Teddy helped to liberate. After Hurricane Carol hits the island, Teddy and Chuck investigate Ward C, where Teddy believes government experiments with psychotropic drugs are being conducted. While separated from Chuck for a short while in Ward C, Teddy meets a patient called George Noyce, who tells him that everything is an elaborate game designed for him, and that Chuck is not to be trusted.\n\nAs Teddy and Chuck return to the main hospital area, they are separated. Teddy discovers a woman (in a sea cave he tried to take refuge in) who says she is the real Rachel Solando. She tells him she was actually a psychiatrist at Ashecliffe, and when she discovered the illegal experiments being run by them, she was incarcerated as a patient. She escaped and has been hiding in different places on the island. She warns him about the other residents of the island, telling him to take care with the food, medication and cigarettes, which have been laced with psychotropic drugs. When Teddy returns to the hospital, he can't find Chuck and is told he had no partner. He escapes and tries to rescue Chuck at the lighthouse where he believes the experiments take place. He reaches the top of the lighthouse and finds only hospital administrator Dr. Cawley seated at a desk. Cawley tells Teddy that he himself is in fact Andrew Laeddis (an anagram of Edward Daniels) and that he has been a patient at Shutter Island for two years for murdering his wife, Dolores Chanal (an anagram of Rachel Solando), after she murdered their three children.\n\nAndrew/Teddy refuses to believe this and takes extreme measures to disprove it, grabbing what he thinks is his gun and tries to shoot Dr. Cawley; but the weapon is a toy water pistol. Chuck then enters, revealing that he is actually Andrew's psychiatrist, Dr. Lester Sheehan. He is told that Dr. Cawley and Chuck/Sheehan have devised this treatment to allow him to live out his elaborate fantasy, in order to confront the truth, or else undergo a radical lobotomy treatment. Teddy/Andrew accepts that he killed his wife and his service as a US Marshal was a long time ago.\n\nThe ending of the novel is unclear as to which \"reality\" is true: the recovery or the investigation. It is also unclear whether Teddy has truly regressed, or if he wishes to \"die\" (at the very least, lose his ability for conscious thought, through lobotomy) in order to avoid living with the knowledge that his wife murdered their children and he is her murderer.\n\nThe novel has been adapted into a film by director Martin Scorsese, starring Leonardo DiCaprio as Teddy Daniels, Mark Ruffalo as Chuck Aule, Ben Kingsley as Dr. Cawley, and Max von Sydow as Dr. Naehring.\n\nThe film was originally scheduled to be released by Paramount Pictures on October 2, 2009, in the United States and Canada. Paramount later announced it was going to push back the release date to February 19, 2010; reports attribute the pushback to Paramount's not having \"the financing in 2009 to spend the $50 to $60 million necessary to market a big awards pic like this,\" DiCaprio's unavailability to promote the film internationally, and Paramount's hope that the economy might rebound enough by February 2010 that a film geared toward adult audiences would be more viable financially.\n\nThe film opened #1 at the box office with $41 million, according to studio estimates. The movie gave Scorsese his best box office opening yet.\n\nThe film remained #1 in its second weekend with $22.2 million. Eventually, the film grossed $128,012,934 in North America and $166,790,080 in foreign markets, for a total of $294,803,014, becoming Scorsese's highest-grossing film worldwide until \"The Wolf of Wall Street\".\n\nThe HarperCollins audiobook version of the novel is read by David Strathairn.\n\nThe Audible Audio Edition version of the novel is read by Tom Stechschulte.\n\nThe story has also been reworked into a graphic novel published by William Morrow, with art by Christian de Metter ().\n\n"}
{"id": "780087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780087", "title": "Smart fluid", "text": "Smart fluid\n\nA smart fluid is a fluid whose properties (for example the viscosity) can be changed by applying an electric field or a magnetic field.\n\nThe most developed smart fluids today are fluids whose viscosity increases when a magnetic field is applied. Small magnetic dipoles are suspended in a non-magnetic fluid, and the applied magnetic field causes these small magnets to line up and form strings that increase the viscosity. These magnetorheological or MR fluids are being used in the suspension of the 2002 model of the Cadillac Seville STS automobile and more recently, in the suspension of the second-generation Audi TT. Depending on road conditions, the damping fluid's viscosity is adjusted. This is more expensive than traditional systems, but it provides better (faster) control. Similar systems are being explored to reduce vibration in washing machines, air conditioning compressors, rockets and satellites, and one has even been installed in Japan's National Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation in Tokyo as an earthquake shock absorber. \n\nSome haptic devices whose resistance to touch can be controlled are also based on these MR fluids.\n\nAnother major type of smart fluid are electrorheological or ER fluids, whose resistance to flow can be quickly and dramatically altered by an applied electric field (note, the yield stress point is altered rather than the viscosity). Besides fast acting clutches, brakes, shock absorbers and hydraulic valves, other, more esoteric, applications such as bulletproof vests have been proposed for these fluids.\n\nOther smart fluids change their surface tension in the presence of an electric field. This has been used to produce very small controllable lenses: a drop of this fluid, captured in a small cylinder and surrounded by oil, serves as a lens whose shape can be changed by applying an electric field.\n\nThe properties of smart fluids have been known for around sixty years, but were subject to only sporadic investigations up until the 1990s, when they were suddenly the subject of renewed interest, notably culminating with the use of an MR fluid on the suspension of the 2002 model of the Cadillac Seville STS automobile and more recently, on the suspension of the second-generation Audi TT. Other applications include brakes and seismic dampers, which are used in buildings in seismically-active zones to damp the oscillations occurring in an earthquake. Since then it appears that interest has waned a little, possibly due to the existence of various limitations of smart fluids which have yet to be overcome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9212442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9212442", "title": "Song of Albion", "text": "Song of Albion\n\nThe Song of Albion is a trilogy of fantasy novels by American writer Stephen Lawhead, consisting of The Paradise War (1991), The Silver Hand (1992) and The Endless Knot (1993). The series combines Christian religious themes with Celtic mythology and tells the tale of a pair of university students who stumble into an alternate world (Albion). It has been continuously in print for over twenty years and remains one of Lawhead's most popular series. The trilogy was published in an omnibus edition in 2014. \n\nThe series has been illustrated by a number of artists including Rodney Matthews, Daniel Horne, Anne Yvonne Gilbert, and Peter Holt.\n\nLewis starts out a complacent graduate student in Celtic studies at Oxford University only to fall into an extended period of uncertainty and self-doubt after seeing his friend Simon disappear. When he enters into Albion himself he is hardly a fitting companion for the powerful fighters he finds himself embroiled with in the courts of King Meldryn but after years of training and life in Albion, he grows into a mighty and respected warrior with a new name, Llew. He is eventually selected by Tegid Tathal, the chief bard, to be the next king, but Prince Meldron usurps the throne instead, with Simon backing him. Meldron cuts off Llew's hand, knowing that a maimed man cannot be king. Llew flees with Tegid to establish a settlement in the north, where he gathers a collection of followers and refugees from Meldron's destructive wrath. Divine intervention grants Llew a new hand of silver, gaining him the name \"Silver Hand\" and solidifying his place as king when Meldron is killed. He marries his true love but is forced to lead a rescue party to the Foul Land when his wife is kidnapped some years later. \n\nLewis dies at the hand of the Brazen Man (revealed to be Simon). However, his sacrifice causes the Song of Albion to be unleashed upon the land in full force and cleanse it of its corruption and evil, and so restores balance to the two worlds. His \"death\" in Albion forces him back into his own world, where he writes of his experiences.\n\nSimon is Lewis's best friend and roommate at Oxford at the start of the series. He disappears into Albion early on after entering a cairn in Scotland during sunset. It is later implied that this was his plan all along to escape the tedium of life in England. He becomes a respected member of Meldryn's army after several years and ascends to the leadership of Prince Meldron's personal guard, the Wolf Pack, also changing his name to Siawn Hy. Simon is a Machiavellian opportunist who exhibits selfish ambitions from the start, who thinks nothing of jilting his girlfriend, Susannah, without telling her of his intentions, and while he initially assists Lewis when he first stumbles into Albion himself, he quickly gains a ruthless ambition which leads to their becoming lethal enemies. He instills Prince Meldron with the idea of succeeding his father instead of following the proper course of succession through bardic choice, and eventually succeeds in having King Meldryn murdered. Simon assists Meldron in his brutal campaign to rule Albion, and does not hesitate to kill or brutalize any who oppose him. He is ultimately responsible for hundreds, if not thousands of deaths and very nearly succeeds in his plan to rule from behind the scenes. He is thwarted when Meldron is killed, and is grievously wounded before returning to his own world. He recovers and returns to the world of Albion after making a deal with greedy industrialists to strip-mine the Foul Land and exploit its resources. He also takes on the persona of the Brazen Man, and engineers a revenge plot against Llew by abducting his queen and luring Llew to the Foul Land. After dealing Llew a fatal blow, Simon meets his end when the Song of Albion restores the land to its former glory by burning away all its corrupting influences (including Simon and his cohorts).\n\nA wise and benevolent ruler of Albion who accepts both Simon and Lewis into his court. Originally the High King of Albion, he is assassinated by Paladyr at the end of \"The Paradise War\" in a conspiracy involving his son, Prince Meldron, and Siawn Hy.\n\nThe Chief Bard to King Meldryn in \"The Paradise War\", Tegid Tathal becomes Llew's mentor and guide in the ways and language of his people, and travels with him throughout much of the series. He assists Llew in locating the Sleeping Bard who keeps the Song of Albion, and then helps him to use the stones containing the Song to defeat Lord Nudd. After the king's murder, he tries to proclaim Llew as successor to the kingship, but Meldron usurps the throne and Tegid becomes a hunted man with Llew. When Tegid tries to gather his fellow bards to oppose Meldron, he is helpless to prevent their slaughter and is subsequently blinded by Meldron in a cruel ironic twist; the seer is now blind. However, Tegid receives an \"awen\", which allows him to see the world through his mind's eye, at least some of the time. Tegid is a stalwart ally to Llew, even when that companionship is dangerous, and demonstrates bravery on many occasions. He is presented as having a wisdom gained from being attuned to the world around him. When Meldron is killed and Llew's kingship firmly established, his eyes are healed by the cleansed waters of the land. He installs Llew as the High King and advises him on his rule. He also travels to the Foul Land with him, where he witnesses the restoration of both Albion and Tir Aflan. Tegid appears to be directly responsible for sending Llew back to his own world after Llew's \"death\" in Albion by having him interred in the cairn, but to what extent he understands this is not explicitly stated.\n\nMeldron is the son of King Meldryn. He seems a dutiful son when first seen but gradually breaks with his father after falling in with Simon, who tells him of the way kings are succeeded in his world by their sons. Meldron eventually enters into a conspiracy to murder his father and usurp the throne. This act, which disrupts the normal rite of kingship, causes the land itself to begin to sicken, causing the soil to grow fallow and the waters to become caustic and undrinkable. He attempts repeatedly to capture Llew and Tegid, and kills the bardic council along with hundreds of innocents in his campaign to rule. Eventually he catches up with Llew and his followers, where he tries once and for all to eliminate his rival. In the process he is killed himself when he falls into the corrupting waters of the lake surrounding Llew's stronghold and dies an agonizing death.\n\nProfessor Nettles is an expert on Celtic folklore and is aware of the existence of \"Tuatha de Danann\", apparently long before either Simon or Lewis. He befriends Lewis when he finds him dazedly wandering the streets in the weeks following Simon's disappearance. He helps Lewis to come to terms with his belief in \"Tuatha de Danann\" (Albion) and the role he will play in it. He is also instrumental in explaining to Lewis about the \"time between times\" in which people can cross over between the worlds, such as dawn or sunset. His role is as a mentor and guide, and he assists Lewis with returning to the cairn where Simon disappeared (leading to Lewis also going to Albion). Nettles takes it upon himself to protect Albion from those who would exploit it, and in doing so he joins a set of researchers who are investigating the cairn in Scotland with the idea of watching them. He later appears with them in Albion to join Llew at the settlement. After Meldron's death he urges Llew to return with him to their own world, so as to \"restore the balance.\" Llew refuses and Nettles returns alone. Little is known of what happened to him during this time, but he reappears in the Foul Land, apparently through the same gateway used by the industrialists that Simon was working with. He warns Llew that Simon survived his wounds and is setting a trap for him. Nettles is not seen alive after this; the Brazen Man delivers his head to Llew shortly afterward.\n\nThe book begins with Simon Rawnson, a British native and his American friend, Lewis Gillies, both graduate students at Oxford, embarking on a journey to a farm in Scotland where a legendary Ice Age creature known as an aurochs has been supposedly recovered. While expecting it to be a hoax, Lewis is startled to find that not only is the aurochs real but that Simon disappears after entering a cairn nearby. After enduring weeks of uncertainty and doubt, Lewis encounters the eccentric Professor Nettles who helps him understand what has happened: Simon had travelled into the world of the faery folk known as Tuatha de Danann. Although skeptical of this, Lewis eventually comes to believe it, and returns to the cairn with Nettles where he himself stumbles into Tuatha de Danann (otherwise known as Albion). In Albion he encounters Simon again, who saves his life and helps him to be accepted into the court of King Meldryn. Llew is sent to the island school of Ynys Sci to be trained as a warrior and is gradually assimilated into the culture and people of Albion. Llew travels with Tegid to a gathering of the bards, where the great evil of Albion's world realm, Cythrawl is released. With the help of the dying bard Ollathir, the Cythrawl is bound and banished. Furious at having been defeated, the Cythrawl unleashes Lord Nudd, an evil king's son from ages past to destroy Albion and its peoples. Having gained leadership over the evil monsters of the underworld he has begun leading this Demon Horde in a campaign of destruction. Simon (now Siawn Hy) has worked his way into Prince Meldron's service, leading the feared Wolf Pack, Meldron's personal guard. Eventually it is revealed that Simon was manipulating the king's arrogant son into pursuing a kingship by heritage, rather than the established and true rite of selection by the Chief Bard, Tegid.\n\nAfter Lord Nudd has surrounded the king's northern stronghold, Lewis (now Llyd) undertakes a desperate bid to locate the Song of Albion, the only hope of stopping Nudd, beneath the palace. He succeeds with Tegid in finding it, only to discover that the Sleeping Bard who sings the Song has been murdered. It is discovered that the Bard instilled the Song into the stones used to crush him to death, and Llew and Tegid are able to use these stones to release the Song so that Nudd and his army are decimated by its power. Following this, Llew is made the new champion to King Meldryn, but Meldryn is murdered immediately afterward by Paladyr. In the wake of this Llew tries to force Simon to return to their own world so as to prevent him from causing more trouble, but Simon escapes, and Lewis encounters Nettles once more with a set of researchers bent on discovering Albion for themselves. The book ends with Lewis returning to Albion to seek Simon out and bring him back.\n\nLlew returns to Albion to bring Simon/Siawn Hy back to their own world. However, Siawn is alert to this now and will not be so easily tricked again. He backs Meldron's claim to the throne by right of heritage, but Tegid challenges this with his own declaration of choice in Llew as the next king. The surprised Llew willingly goes along with this, but when Tegid publicly performs the rite of kingship with Llew, Meldron declares them outlaws and has them arrested. They escape and make their way to the bard's ancient meeting mound, where they hope to establish their support for Llew's claim to the throne. Meldron, however, brazenly attacks the bards when they meet and kills all of them save Tegid and Llew. He has Tegid blinded and cuts off Llew's hand, ostensibly to destroy any claim he might have to the throne, as a maimed man cannot be king. He then sends them out to sea in a small boat to perish (so as to claim he knew nothing of what happened to them). The boat, however, returns to shore and the two men move north. There they establish an enclave of those who either support Llew or are fleeing Meldron's campaign of destruction across the land, led by the feared Wolf Pack. \n\nBecause of the link between the land and the kingship, Meldron's usurping the throne has caused the land to sicken. The water begins to turn poisonous, then caustic and deadly. After a large settlement has formed with Llew and Tegid leading them, Meldron arrives and take hostages of the people. Llew surrenders himself to arrange their release. Meldron throws Llew into the corrupting waters of the lake, expecting this will kill him. Instead, Llew is granted the Silver Hand through divine intervention, emerging from the water unscathed. The shock of this causes Meldron to capsize his boat, sending him into the deadly waters, where he dies horribly. With Llew's hand restored, he is no longer maimed and his kingship is assured.\n\nThe Wolf Pack is captured and tried before Llew's council, where they are sentenced to death. Siawn, however, escapes when his turn comes at last, but as he reaches the water's edge, he is struck by a spear thrust. He seems to disappear as he falls into the water, and it is apparent that he has returned to Lewis's world, where it is assumed he died of his injury.\n\nNettles, who had joined Llew in Albion during the events of the previous book, returns to his own world, urging Llew to come as well. Llew, however, feels he still has a life and purpose in Albion and decides to stay. He marries the daughter of a warrior chieftess, Goewyn, and begins his rule as High King, making the rounds to the various villages and provinces on the Isle of the Mighty. This idyllic life is interrupted when his queen is spirited away. When it is clear that the queen was taken to the Foul Land, a cursed land across the sea, Tegid warns Llew that he must stay behind and allow the rescue mission to proceed without him, based on an ancient curse triggered when any High King leaves the Isle of the Mighty. Llew refuses to remain, however, and joins the group in sailing for the Tyr Aflan, the Foul Land.\n\nThe Foul Land was apparently once a glorious kingdom much like Albion, but its people apparently committed a terrible crime which Tegid is unable to recount. The land is populated by terrible monsters and creatures that threaten the group as they move through it. Their first danger is from a swarm of large, tick-like creatures that emerge in darkness to suck the life from their victims. After narrowly evading these, they move through the dense, dark forest at the heart of the land, where they encounter the Wyrm, a dragon-like beast that kills several of Llew's men before the bards' \"awen\" overtakes him, and he slays the beast. Finally they emerge from the forest and discover a vast mining operation in which worker from the manifest world coerced to labor as slaves. Surprisingly, Nettles arrives to warn Llew that Simon survived his wounds. He had teamed with his father to exploit the resources of Albion using modern mining equipment and machines, along with guards with guns. Llew and his men manage to eliminate most of these, but the Brazen Man, a mysterious figure with a bronze suit of armor, arrives and delivers him a gruesome package containing the head of Nettles, whom he apparently killed. Llew finds his wife in a strange tower, where he finds the Brazen Man is none other than Simon, who had sprung a trap for him. Llew's reunion with is wife is short-lived, and he is forced to surrender to Simon to spare her. Simon immediately kills Llew with a knife, thus bringing the curse to bear.\n\nHowever, this action brings the Song of Albion to life, freeing it from its stone form. It proceeds to burn away everything in the land, along with all its people. Miraculously, Llew's companions are all restored, along with the peoples of the Foul Land (no longer cursed). But Llew's body, while restored including its hand, is still dead, and he is brought back home and interred in a cairn built by Tegid. His spirit is brought back to his old world, with his body as well, and he emerges from the cairn (in a different location than the original cairn he entered through) where he is met by Simon's former fiance, Susannah, who had been helping Nettles. She gives him comfort and helps him to adjust to life outside of Albion again, and convinces him to put his experiences in writing. The series comes full circle, ending with the same words with which it began: \"It all began with the aurochs...\"\n"}
{"id": "5532435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5532435", "title": "Space Science Fiction", "text": "Space Science Fiction\n\nSpace Science Fiction was a science fiction magazine published by Space Publications, Inc. of New York and The Archer Press Ltd. of London that ran for eight issues from May 1952 to September 1953. \"Space\" was edited by Lester del Rey and featured a book review column by George O. Smith. Del Rey's conflicts with the publishers ensured that the magazine would have a short run, in spite of the superior quality of the stories. Illustrator Alex Ebel contributed to this magazine over the course of his career.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1252909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252909", "title": "The Simultaneous Man", "text": "The Simultaneous Man\n\nThe Simultaneous Man is a 1970 science fiction novel by Ralph Blum, where brainwashing and psychosurgery techniques are used to create a copy of the experiences and memories of one person in the body of another. \n\nThe book's protagonist is Andrew Horne (nicknamed \"Bear\"), a Russian-born U.S. scientist, who works at \"West Wing\" on \"Project Beta\", a secret government mind-control project, which aims to perfect the art of brainwashing until it is possible to completely re-make a person's mind and soul. The Project operates on hopeless cases from psychiatric wards, and \"prison-volunteers\" who would otherwise be executed. \n\nThe Project's first Remake having failed disastrously, it is decided to base the second Remake on the mind of Horne himself. The prison-volunteer chosen for the Remake is a Black soldier, referred to as \"Prisvol 233/234\", who has killed an officer and been sentenced to death. The project first uses ultrasound to destroy his access to his old memories, and then, having washed the slate clean, exposes him to immersive movie reenactments of Horne's childhood, college days, war service, and entry into the Project. (As this is performed, the reader discovers that Horne himself was on the receiving end of torture and brainwashing in the Korean War, which he fought against by creating a \"false self\" which he betrays to the enemy - the \"\"Lieutenant Kijé\" defense\"). At the end of this process, 233/234, now known as \"Black Bear\", \"is\", for all intents and purposes, Andrew Horne in a new body.\n\nHowever, when Security realizes that Black Bear also has all of Horne's secret knowledge, and considers him a security risk, this sets off a chain of events where their mirror image identities will lead both Black Bear and Horne to \"East Wing\" in Russia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12514554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12514554", "title": "Toadstone", "text": "Toadstone\n\nThe toadstone, also known as bufonite, is a mythical stone or gem that was thought to be found in the head of a toad. It was supposed to be an antidote to poison and in this it is not unlike batrachite, supposedly formed in the heads of frogs. Toadstones were actually the button-like fossilized teeth of \"Lepidotes\", an extinct genus of ray-finned fish from the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods. They appeared to be \"stones that are perfect in form\" and were set by European jewellers into magical rings and amulets from Medieval times until the 18th century.\n\nFrom ancient times people associated the fossils with jewels that were set inside the heads of toads. The toad has poison glands in its skin, so it was naturally assumed that they carried their own antidote and that this took the form of a magical stone. They were first recorded by Pliny the Elder in the first century.\n\nAccording to Paul Taylor of the London Natural History Museum:\n\nThe true toadstone was taken by contemporary jewellers to be no bigger than the nail of a hand and they varied in colour from a whitish brown through green to black, depending on where they were buried. They were supposedly most effective against poison when worn against the skin, on which occasion they were thought to heat up, sweat and change colour. If a person was bitten by a venomous creature a toadstone would be touched against the affected part to effect a cure. Alternatively Johannes de Cuba, in his book \"Hortus sanitatis\", claimed that toadstone would help with kidney disease and earthly happiness.\n\nLoose toadstones were discovered among other gemstones in the Elizabethan Cheapside Hoard and there are surviving toadstone rings in the Ashmolean Museum and the British Museum.\n\nThe toadstone is alluded to by Duke Senior in Shakespeare's \"As You Like It\" (1599), in Act 2, Scene 1, lines 12 through 14:\n\nSweet are the uses of adversity; \nWhich, like the toad, ugly and venomous, \nWears yet a precious jewel in his head.\nIn James Branch Cabell's short story \"Balthazar's Daughter\" (collected in \"The Certain Hour\") and its subsequent play adaptation \"The Jewel Merchants\", Alessandro de Medici attempts to seduce Graciosa by listing various precious jewels in his possession, including \"jewels cut from the brain of a toad\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20724990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20724990", "title": "Weapons of mass destruction in popular culture", "text": "Weapons of mass destruction in popular culture\n\nWeapons of mass destruction and their related impacts have been a mainstay of popular culture since the beginning of the Cold War, as both political commentary and humorous outlet.\n\nA 1955 episode of the radio comedy series \"Hancock's Half Hour\", titled \"The Chef That Died of Shame\", contains a joke about a UN delegate wanting a chef's dumplings added to a list of \"Banned Weapons of Mass Destruction\".\n\nNuclear weapons have been a central theme of movies since \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\" (1951); two of the most famous are \"\" (1964) and \"Fail-Safe\" (1964). Biological weapons have also featured, as in \"Twelve Monkeys\" (1995). Several early James Bond films involve a madman, most notably Ernst Stavro Blofeld of the fictional terrorist organization S.P.E.C.T.R.E., who intends to use either nuclear or biological weapons in the quest for world domination. This has been parodied in the Austin Powers series with Dr. Evil.\n\nThe mocking of the term \"weapons of mass destruction\" dates back well before the Iraq War, with Hugh Cook's 1992 fantasy novel \"The Witchlord and the Weaponmaster\" satirically mentioned that the avalanche is a terrible weapon of mass destruction, outlawed by civilised countries in the conduct of war.\n\nThe novel \"Dune\" discusses atomic weapons, and its sequel \"Dune Messiah\" employs one called a Stone Burner. In the \"Star Wars\" universe, the Death Star is a moveable, multi-use WMD (meaning that it, unlike most WMD missiles, can be used thousands of times.) In the \"Babylon 5\" universe, WMDs have been used a number of times, most directly by the Earth Alliance (the Earth-Minbari War uses nuclear weapons), the Army of Light (the Shadow War, also nuclear), the Centauri (Narn-Centauri War, planetary bombardment with asteroids by mass drivers), as well as on their own planet on the Isle of Selini to rid themselves of the Shadows (nuclear), and the Drakh (biological warfare against Earth). \n\nIn \"\", a 1997 episode of \"\", Captain Janeway describes the Borg's multikinetic neutronic mine as a weapon of mass destruction.\n\nIn many real-time strategy video games, each playable army would be able to construct a WMD or 'superweapon' to use in battle, which can be similar to WMDs found today or different from current technology.\n\nIn the context of the lead-up to the invasion of Iraq under the guise of Saddam Hussein's alleged WMDs, the phrase became ubiquitous. A parody based on Internet Explorer's \"404 Not Found\" message was created, poking fun at the state of international affairs, and for a time was the #1 hit for the Google search \"weapons of mass destruction\". Similarly, at the annual Radio and Television Correspondents Dinner, February 24, 2004, George W. Bush joked about being unable to find WMD in Iraq, saying \"Those weapons of mass destruction must be somewhere\", while showing images of himself searching the White House for something. In 2003 an EasyJet advertising campaign attracted controversy with a billboard ad featuring a woman's breasts with the phrase \"discover weapons of mass distraction\". \n\nSue Townsend continued her best-selling series of comic-political novels with the 2004 \"Adrian Mole and the Weapons of Mass Destruction\". The eponymous hero trusts Tony Blair implicitly, and writes to him asking for proof of the WMDs' existence, so he can get a refund from the travel agency where he had deposited some money for a holiday in Cyprus, since this island is now apparently no longer safe to travel to.\n\nIn the 2004 episode of \"The Sopranos\", titled \"All Happy Families...\", a parole inspector asks Feech Le Manna to open his garage., where Feech has hidden contraband that, if found, could return him to prison. Feech quips, \"that's where I make my weapons of mass destruction\", in hopes the inspector will be dissuaded by the pop culture reference to the United States' inability to find Sadam Hussein's WMDs in Iraq.\n\n\"Weapons of Mass Destruction\" is the title of an album released by American rapper Xzibit in 2004, who also called a car featured on \"Pimp My Ride\" a WMD. Faithless released the album \"No Roots\" in 2004 which contained the single \"Mass Destruction\", whose lyrics describe negative traits such as fear, racism, greed and inaction as \"weapons of mass destruction\".\n\nThe 2005 series, \"Doctor Who\", contained a double episode about an alien invasion in London. In one scene, when discussing whether or not an attack on the aliens' space craft was warranted, politicians claimed it was necessary because the aliens had \"massive weapons of destruction\" which could be deployed \"within forty-five seconds\"a reference to Prime Minister Tony Blair's claim in the lead-up to the Iraq War that Saddam Hussein had WMDs could be deployed within 45 minutes. In \"The Simpsons\" \"Treehouse of Horror XVII\", aliens Kang and Kodos, spoofing the Iraq War, claim that they had to invade, as Earth was working on \"Weapons of Mass Disintegration.\" In the episode (\"Rekognize\") of Da Ali G Show, Ali mistakenly refers to WMDs as \"BLTs\" (an acronym for the popular sandwich made of bacon, lettuce, and tomato), going so far as to ask if there was mustard gas in the BLTs.\n\nIn 2005, the Paranoia RPG published a collection of new Straight-style missions under the title \"WMD\". Each mission revolved around a plot device with the initials WMD. At least one of the missions involved an actual device that might have been a WMD; but, in general they simply focused on situations rife with a sense of stress, uncertainty and fear. The American TV series \"24\" typically features a different weapon of mass destruction in each season: the second, fourth and sixth seasons feature nuclear weapons, the third and seventh feature weaponized viruses, and the fifth, VX nerve gas, a chemical weapon of mass destruction. In the \"Nextwave\" comic book the Beyond Corporation© is testing out \"Unusual Weapons of Mass Destruction\" within the US, starting with a weapon called Fin Fang Foom.\n\nIn the video game \"\" and \"\", there is a map named Nuketown in which a nuclear bomb goes off in the background when a round ends. Additionally, in the first game's singleplayer story, the USA is under the threat of a national attack from a German-Soviet chemical called \"Nova 6\", a green nerve toxin that kills nearly instantly as it is inhaled.\n\nThe premise of the Metal Gear video game series involves various iterations of the titular bipedal nuclear missile launcher, presenting a constant struggle to decrease the global quantity of nuclear warheads as well as destroying the featured mech presented in its respective game.\n\nThe Big Show uses a Knockout punch called WMD.\n\nThe 2008 literary thriller \"The Quick and The Dead\" by Matthew John Lee describes the aftermath of an attack on the British Isles using an enhanced smallpox virus. .\n\n"}
{"id": "35272619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35272619", "title": "Wedding tradition in Azerbaijan", "text": "Wedding tradition in Azerbaijan\n\nThe Azerbaijani wedding tradition () is one of the most significant and solemn family traditions in the Azerbaijan Republic. It is multi-stepped, and is related to various compulsory rituals and traditions. Ancient Azerbaijani weddings reflect cycles of traditions, lasting for a long period of time, and need significant material costs.\n\nA formal wedding procedure begins with acceptance of consent of the bride's parents (“Söz Kesmek”) and continues after an independent decision about the marriage is made.\n\nSuch traditions as qız görmə (presentation of a marriageable girl) and qız bəyənmə (approval of the choice) are the first conditions of the wedding. Nearest relatives of the groom, who are gathered together to marry him, begin gathering information about the bride, her parents, and the family where she lives.\n\nThe day for sending matchmakers to the bride's house is fixed when the groom's choice is approved.\n\nMore respected, elder relatives of the groom take part in the “main” matchmaking ceremony. Being refused is considered a blow to the prestige of the matchmakers. Generally, elder relatives of the groom or his elder sister are sent to the bride's house to obtain acceptance of preliminary consent. Earlier, the tradition required repeated “refusals” for a variety of reasons, but later this was considerably simplified. This simplification could be attributed to the belief that a future companion in life should be equal in rights and that youngsters have a right to make this private choice.\n\nIn fixing the day of matchmaking everybody tries to choose the successful day, which should be a day when all dreams come true. According to an ancient belief, evil spirits bordered the matchmakers’ path on the way to the bride's house, attempted to restrict the commitment, and wanted the matchmaker to receive a refusal and have to return without consent. To counteract this, people attached a pin to doors and walls of the house, which they approach. Evil spirits, frightened from the pin made of iron, did not have enough courage to leave the home and accompany the matchmaker going to the bride's house.\n\nMatchmaking is an indispensable tradition even when the couple agrees to the match.\n\nAzerbaijan honored the tradition of payment of “Başlığ”. Başlığ is payment for the bride made by the groom's side to the bride's parents, specifically, to her father or another person who offers the bride for marriage. Payment was made in cash, cattle, or other material wealth before the wedding. This tradition is observed in Iranian Azerbaijan and Azerbaijan Republic. It was banned in Azerbaijan Republic during Soviet era.\n\nMatchmaking follows engagement traditions. After the father decides to give his daughter for marriage, the groom entertains his new relatives with tea and sweeties in the bride's house. In 1908, the engagement process of Shahsevens, an ethnic group of Azerbaijanis, was described as follows:\n\nThe period after the engagement and before the wedding is the main period in the life of a young couple. Earlier the length of this stage was very significant, sometimes extending several years. It could be that the long span of the engagement was related to difficulties relating to material welfare and the necessities of preparing for the future wedding ceremonies. Later this period was significantly shortened.\n\nReligious registration of the marriage (kebin kesmek) () is held several days before the wedding with the participation of witnesses from both sides. A guaranteed sum (“mehr”) is written into the marriage contract (“kebin kagizi”) (). This is a guaranteed amount of money for the bride in case of divorce or death of the husband. The amount was carefully kept by a married woman in the past.\n\nA ceremony for decorating the house (“ev bezemek”) is held a few days before the wedding. The ceremony concludes that same day when the dowry is brought to the groom's house. The aim of this tradition is to provide the young couple with all necessities in the beginning of their life together, which is why the dowry includes furniture, dishes and articles of domestic utility.\n\nA “girl’s wedding” (“paltar kesdi” ceremony) and so called “boy’s wedding” are distinguished. The national music sounds in the wedding.\n\nA ceremony of “henna smearing” is held on the evening of the first day of the wedding at the bride's house. The bride's nearest female friends and relatives are invited to this event. A group of young boys and girls with musicians come from the groom's house. The nearest relatives of the groom smear henna on the bride's fingers and give gifts. The bride's family gives a formal dinner party to participants in the ceremony. The “henna smearing” has different names in different districts of Azerbaijan: in Shaki the ceremony is called “the bride’s feast”; in Tovuz the ceremony is the “demonstration of the girl”; in Masalli and Lenkeran the events are known as “gathering at the girl’s”; in Guba the reference is “henna smearing” and in Absheron this is the “hennanane”. According to tradition, on the night of “henna smearing”, the groom came to the bride's house for “toy payi” (wedding portion) and took sheep and a hen, giving gifts and money in return. According to the tradition, it is appropriate to steal “toy payi”, but in the 1980s the wedding portion was prepared in advance and given to the groom. Sometimes the musicians stay in the bride's house and merry-making and dancing continue until the morning.\n\nOn the second day of the wedding dances are held in the groom's house. Holding a “gulesh” (wrestling show) was part of the second day in some villages until now. As far back as the 1970s, this tradition existed in every village of Azerbaijan. Famous wrestlers gathered together to weight their power in the wedding. At the end of the wedding a caravan is sent to the bride's house (nowadays-a car) to bring the bride to the groom's house (“gelin getirme”). On the way, boys detain the groom and bride and their caravan in order to receive a gift (“xelet”).\n\nBoth palms of the bride are tied with a white or red handkerchief under which they put money, which was taken by the groom and bride's yenge. The bride's hands are untied before the wedding night.\n\nA ceremony called “uze çıxdı”, symbolizing the end of “absence” period, is held a few days after the wedding. In the past, according to the tradition, the bride didn't overstep the limits of a yard room for a month after the wedding. She didn't speak to her mother-in-law and father-in-law for a week. After the “uze chixdi” ceremony the nearest relatives of the bride (except mother and father) and the groom get together in his house, greet the newlyweds, and present them with valuable gifts or money.\n\nDespite the longstanding traditions, Azerbaijan weddings have undergone significant changes during the last decades. It is now widely accepted to take photos of a young couple on the wedding day and for a bride to wear a white wedding dress. The strict concealment of a young couple before the wedding has softened. Groom, or rarely a bride, can sit at a table with guests. In recent years, grooms were given the right to participate in the engagement ceremony. These changes are notably present in city weddings. It is expected that changes will continue in village weddings in coming years. One of the modern trends is the refusal of “the wedding without newlyweds”, a tradition of hiding the bride before the wedding. The length of the marriage celebration has also been shortened. Formerly a wedding could last for 3 or 7 days but now it lasts for a day.\n"}
{"id": "13704154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13704154", "title": "Western philosophy", "text": "Western philosophy\n\nWestern philosophy is the philosophical thought and work of the Western world. Historically, the term refers to the philosophical thinking of Western culture, beginning with Greek philosophy of the pre-Socratics such as Thales (c. 624 – c. 546 BC) and Pythagoras (c. 570 BC – c. 495 BC), and eventually covering a large area of the globe. The word \"philosophy\" itself originated from the Ancient Greek: \"philosophia\" (φιλοσοφία), literally, \"the love of wisdom\" (φιλεῖν \"philein\", \"to love\" and σοφία \"sophia\", \"wisdom\").\n\nThe scope of philosophy in the ancient understanding, and the writings of (at least some of) the ancient philosophers, were \"all\" intellectual endeavors. This included the problems of philosophy as they are understood today; but it also included many other disciplines, such as pure mathematics and natural sciences such as physics, astronomy, and biology (Aristotle, for example, wrote on all of these topics).\n\nIn the pre-Socratic period, ancient philosophers first articulated questions about the \"arche\" (the cause or first principle) of the universe. Western philosophy is generally said to begin in the Greek cities of western Asia Minor (Ionia) with Thales of Miletus, who was active and was responsible for the opaque dictum, \"all is water.\" His most noted students were respectively Anaximander (all is apeiron (roughly, \"the unlimited\")) and Anaximenes of Miletus (\"all is air\")\n\nPythagoras, from the island of Samos off the coast of Ionia, later lived in Croton in southern Italy (Magna Graecia). Pythagoreans hold that \"all is number,\" giving \"formal\" accounts in contrast to the previous \"material\" of the Ionians. They also believe in metempsychosis, the transmigration of souls, or reincarnation.\n\nA key figure in Greek philosophy is Socrates. Socrates studied under several Sophists but transformed Greek philosophy into a branch of philosophy that is still pursued today. It is said that following a visit to the Oracle of Delphi he spent much of his life questioning anyone in Athens who would engage him, in order to disprove the oracular prophecy that there would be no man wiser than Socrates. Socrates used a critical approach called the \"elenchus\" or Socratic method to examine people's views. He aimed to study human things: the good life, justice, beauty, and virtue. Although Socrates wrote nothing himself, some of his many disciples wrote down his conversations. He was tried for corrupting the youth and impiety by the Greek democracy. He was found guilty and sentenced to death. Although his friends offered to help him escape from prison, he chose to remain in Athens and abide by his principles. His execution consisted of drinking the poison hemlock and he died in 399 BC.\n\nPlato was a student of Socrates. Plato founded the Academy of Athens and wrote a number of dialogues, which applied the Socratic method of inquiry to examine philosophical problems. Some central ideas of Plato's dialogues are the immortality of the soul, the benefits of being just, that evil is ignorance, and the Theory of Forms. Forms are universal properties that constitute true reality and contrast with the changeable material things he called \"becoming\".\n\nAristotle was a pupil of Plato. Aristotle was perhaps the first truly systematic philosopher and scientist. He wrote about physics, biology, zoology, metaphysics, aesthetics, poetry, theater, music, rhetoric, politics and logic. Aristotelian logic was the first type of logic to attempt to categorize every valid syllogism. Aristotle tutored Alexander the Great. He in turn conquered much of the ancient world at a rapid pace. Hellenization and Aristotelian philosophy exercised considerable influence on almost all subsequent Western and Middle Eastern philosophers, including Hellenistic, Roman, Byzantine, Western medieval, Jewish, and Islamic thinkers.\n\nMedieval philosophy is the philosophy of Western Europe and the Middle East during the Middle Ages, roughly extending from the Christianization of the Roman Empire until the Renaissance. Medieval philosophy is defined partly by the rediscovery and further development of classical Greek and Hellenistic philosophy, and partly by the need to address theological problems and to integrate the then widespread sacred doctrines of Abrahamic religion (Islam, Judaism, and Christianity) with secular learning. Early medieval philosophy was influenced by the likes of Stoicism, Neoplatonism, but, above all, the philosophy of Plato himself.\n\nSome problems discussed throughout this period are the relation of faith to reason, the existence and unity of God, the object of theology and metaphysics, the problems of knowledge, of universals, and of individuation. The prominent figure of this period was Augustine of Hippo (one of the most important Church Fathers in Western Christianity) who adopted Plato's thought and Christianized it in the 4th century and whose influence dominated medieval philosophy perhaps up to end of the era but was checked with the arrival of Aristotle's texts. Augustinianism was the preferred starting point for most philosophers (including Anselm of Canterbury, the father of scholasticism) up until the 13th century.\n\nThe Carolingian Renaissance of the 8th/9th century was fed by Church missionaries travelling from Ireland, most notably John Scotus Eriugena, a Neoplatonic philosopher. \n\nThe modern university system has roots in the European medieval university, which was created in Italy and evolved from Catholic Cathedral schools for the clergy during the High Middle Ages.\nThomas Aquinas, an academic philosopher and the father of Thomism, was immensely influential in Catholic Europe; he placed a great emphasis on reason and argumentation, and was one of the first to use the new translation of Aristotle's metaphysical and epistemological writing.\n\nPhilosophers from the Middle Ages include the Christian philosophers Augustine of Hippo, Boethius, Anselm, Gilbert de la Porrée, Peter Abelard, Roger Bacon, Bonaventure, Thomas Aquinas, Duns Scotus, William of Ockham and Jean Buridan; the Jewish philosophers Maimonides and Gersonides; and the Muslim philosophers Alkindus, Alfarabi, Alhazen, Avicenna, Algazel, Avempace, Abubacer, Ibn Khaldūn, and Averroes. The medieval tradition of scholasticism continued to flourish as late as the 17th century, in figures such as Francisco Suárez and John of St. Thomas.\n\nThe Renaissance (\"rebirth\") was a period of transition between the Middle Ages and modern thought, in which the recovery of classical texts helped shift philosophical interests away from technical studies in logic, metaphysics, and theology towards eclectic inquiries into morality, philology, and mysticism. The study of the classics and the humane arts generally, such as history and literature, enjoyed a scholarly interest hitherto unknown in Christendom, a tendency referred to as humanism. Displacing the medieval interest in metaphysics and logic, the humanists followed Petrarch in making man and his virtues the focus of philosophy.\n\nAt the point of passage from Renaissance into early/classical modern philosophy, the dialogue was used as a primary style of writing by Renaissance philosophers, such as Giordano Bruno.\n\nHow much of Renaissance intellectual history is part of modern philosophy is disputed.\n\nThe term \"modern philosophy\" has multiple usages. For example, Thomas Hobbes is sometimes considered the first modern philosopher because he applied a systematic method to political philosophy. By contrast, René Descartes is often considered the first modern philosopher because he grounded his philosophy in problems of \"knowledge\", rather than problems of metaphysics.\nModern philosophy and especially Enlightenment philosophy is distinguished by its increasing independence from traditional authorities such as the Church, academia, and Aristotelianism; a new focus on the foundations of knowledge and metaphysical system-building; and the emergence of modern physics out of natural philosophy.\n\nSome central topics of Western philosophy in its early modern (also classical modern) period include the nature of the mind and its relation to the body, the implications of the new natural sciences for traditional theological topics such as free will and God, and the emergence of a secular basis for moral and political philosophy. These trends first distinctively coalesce in Francis Bacon's call for a new, empirical program for expanding knowledge, and soon found massively influential form in the mechanical physics and rationalist metaphysics of René Descartes.\n\nOther notable modern philosophers include Baruch Spinoza, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, John Locke, George Berkeley, David Hume, and Immanuel Kant. Many other contributors were philosophers, scientists, medical doctors, and politicians. A short list includes Galileo Galilei, Pierre Gassendi, Blaise Pascal, Nicolas Malebranche, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, Christiaan Huygens, Isaac Newton, Christian Wolff, Montesquieu, Pierre Bayle, Thomas Reid, Jean le Rond d'Alembert, Adam Smith, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau.\n\nThe approximate end of the early modern period is most often identified with Immanuel Kant's systematic attempt to limit metaphysics, justify scientific knowledge, and reconcile both of these with morality and freedom.\n\nLate modern philosophy is usually considered to begin around the pivotal year of 1781, when Gotthold Ephraim Lessing died and Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" appeared.\n\nGerman philosophy exercised broad influence in this century, owing in part to the dominance of the German university system. German idealists, such as Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, and the members of Jena Romanticism (Friedrich Hölderlin, Novalis, and Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel), transformed the work of Kant by maintaining that the world is constituted by a rational or mind-like process, and as such is entirely knowable. Arthur Schopenhauer's identification of this world-constituting process as an irrational will to live influenced later 19th- and early 20th-century thinking, such as the work of Friedrich Nietzsche.\n\nThe 19th century took the radical notions of self-organization and intrinsic order from Goethe and Kantian metaphysics, and proceeded to produce a long elaboration on the tension between systematization and organic development. Foremost was the work of Hegel, whose \"Phenomenology of Spirit\" (1807) and \"Science of Logic\" (1813–16) produced a \"dialectical\" framework for ordering of knowledge.\n\nAs with the 18th century, developments in science arose from philosophy and also challenged philosophy: most importantly the work of Charles Darwin, which was based on the idea of organic self-regulation found in philosophers such as Smith, but fundamentally challenged established conceptions.\n\nAfter Hegel's death in 1831, 19th-century philosophy largely turned against idealism in favor of varieties of philosophical naturalism, such as the positivism of Auguste Comte, the empiricism of John Stuart Mill, and the historical materialism of Karl Marx. Logic began a period of its most significant advances since the inception of the discipline, as increasing mathematical precision opened entire fields of inference to formalization in the work of George Boole and Gottlob Frege. Other philosophers who initiated lines of thought that would continue to shape philosophy into the 20th century include:\n\nThe three major contemporary approaches to academic philosophy are analytic philosophy, Continental philosophy and pragmatism. They are neither exhaustive nor mutually exclusive.\n\nThe 20th century deals with the upheavals produced by a series of conflicts within philosophical discourse over the basis of knowledge, with classical certainties overthrown, and new social, economic, scientific and logical problems. 20th century philosophy was set for a series of attempts to reform and preserve, and to alter or abolish, older knowledge systems. Seminal figures include Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Edmund Husserl, Martin Heidegger, Jean-Paul Sartre. The publication of Husserl's \"Logical Investigations\" (1900–1) and Russell's \"The Principles of Mathematics\" (1903) is considered to mark the beginning of 20th-century philosophy. The 20th century also saw the increasing professionalization of the discipline and the beginning of the current (contemporary) era of philosophy. \n\nSince the Second World War, contemporary philosophy has been divided mostly into analytic and Continental traditions; the former carried in the English speaking world and the latter on the continent of Europe. The perceived conflict between Continental and analytic schools of philosophy remains prominent, despite increasing skepticism regarding the distinction's usefulness.\n\nIn the English-speaking world, analytic philosophy became the dominant school for much of the 20th century.\n\nThe term \"analytic philosophy\" roughly designates a group of philosophical methods that stress detailed argumentation, attention to semantics, use of classical logic and non-classical logics and clarity of meaning above all other criteria. Though the movement has broadened, it was a cohesive school in the first half of the century. Analytic philosophers were shaped strongly by logical positivism, united by the notion that philosophical problems could and should be solved by attention to logic and language.\n\nBertrand Russell and G. E. Moore are also often counted as founders of analytic philosophy, beginning with their rejection of British idealism, their defense of realism and the emphasis they laid on the legitimacy of analysis. Russell's classic works \"The Principles of Mathematics\", \"On Denoting\" and \"Principia Mathematica\" (with Alfred North Whitehead), aside from greatly promoting the use of mathematical logic in philosophy, set the ground for much of the research program in the early stages of the analytic tradition, emphasizing such problems as: the reference of proper names, whether 'existence' is a property, the nature of propositions, the analysis of definite descriptions, and discussions on the foundations of mathematics. These works also explored issues of ontological commitment and metaphysical problems regarding time, the nature of matter, mind, persistence and change, which Russell often tackled with the aid of mathematical logic.\n\nGottlob Frege's \"The Foundations of Arithmetic\" (1884) was the first analytic work, according to Michael Dummett (\"Origins of Analytical Philosophy\" (1993)). Frege took \"the linguistic turn,\" analyzing philosophical problems through language. Some analytic philosophers held that philosophical problems arise through misuse of language or because of misunderstandings of the logic of human language.\n\nIn 1921, Ludwig Wittgenstein, who studied under Russell at Cambridge, published his \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", which gave a rigidly \"logical\" account of linguistic and philosophical issues. Years later, he reversed a number of the positions he set out in the \"Tractatus\", in for example his second major work, \"Philosophical Investigations\" (1953). \"Investigations\" was influential in the development of \"ordinary language philosophy,\" which was promoted by Gilbert Ryle, J. L. Austin, and a few others.\n\nIn the United States, meanwhile, the philosophy of W. V. O. Quine was having a major influence, with the paper \"Two Dogmas of Empiricism\". In that paper Quine criticizes the distinction between analytic and synthetic statements, arguing that a clear conception of analyticity is unattainable. \n\nNotable students of Quine include Donald Davidson and Daniel Dennett. The later work of Russell and the philosophy of Willard Van Orman Quine are influential exemplars of the naturalist approach dominant in the second half of the 20th century. But the diversity of analytic philosophy from the 1970s onward defies easy generalization: the naturalism of Quine and his epigoni was in some precincts superseded by a \"new metaphysics\" of possible worlds, as in the influential work of David Lewis. Recently, the experimental philosophy movement has sought to reappraise philosophical problems through social science research techniques.\n\nSome influential figures in contemporary analytic philosophy are: Timothy Williamson, David Lewis, John Searle, Thomas Nagel, Hilary Putnam, Michael Dummett, Peter van Inwagen, Saul Kripke and Patricia Churchland.\n\nAnalytic philosophy has sometimes been accused of not contributing to the political debate or to traditional questions in aesthetics. However, with the appearance of \"A Theory of Justice\" by John Rawls and \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\" by Robert Nozick, analytic political philosophy acquired respectability. Analytic philosophers have also shown depth in their investigations of aesthetics, with Roger Scruton, Nelson Goodman, Arthur Danto and others developing the subject to its current shape.\n\nContinental philosophy is a set of 19th- and 20th-century philosophical traditions from mainland Europe. 20th-century movements such as German idealism, phenomenology, existentialism, modern hermeneutics, critical theory, structuralism, post-structuralism and others are included within this loose category. While identifying any non-trivial common factor in all these schools of thought is bound to be controversial, Michael E. Rosen has hypothesized a few common Continental themes: that the natural sciences cannot replace the human sciences; that the thinker is affected by the conditions of experience (one's place and time in history); that philosophy is both theoretical and practical; that metaphilosophy or reflection upon the methods and nature of philosophy itself is an important part of philosophy proper.\n\nThe founder of phenomenology, Edmund Husserl, sought to study consciousness as experienced from a first-person perspective, while Martin Heidegger drew on the ideas of Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, and Husserl to propose an unconventional existential approach to ontology. \n\nPhenomenologically oriented metaphysics undergirded existentialism—Martin Heidegger, Jean-Paul Sartre, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Albert Camus—and finally post-structuralism—Gilles Deleuze, Jean-François Lyotard (best known for his articulation of postmodernism), Michel Foucault, Jacques Derrida (best known for developing a form of semiotic analysis known as deconstruction). The psychoanalytic work of Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, Jacques Lacan, Julia Kristeva, and others has also been influential in contemporary Continental thought. Conversely, some philosophers have attempted to define and rehabilitate older traditions of philosophy. Most notably, Hans-Georg Gadamer and Alasdair MacIntyre have both, albeit in different ways, revived the tradition of Aristotelianism.\n\nExistentialism is a term applied to the work of a number of late 19th- and 20th-century philosophers who, despite profound doctrinal differences, shared the belief that philosophical thinking begins with the human subject—not merely the thinking subject, but the acting, feeling, living human individual. In existentialism, the individual's starting point is characterized by what has been called \"the existential attitude\", or a sense of disorientation and confusion in the face of an apparently meaningless or absurd world. Many existentialists have also regarded traditional systematic or academic philosophy, in both style and content, as too abstract and remote from concrete human experience.\nAlthough they did not use the term, the 19th-century philosophers Søren Kierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche are widely regarded as the fathers of existentialism. Their influence, however, has extended beyond existentialist thought.\n\nTranscendental idealism, advocated by Immanuel Kant, is the view that there are limits on what can be understood, since there is much that cannot be brought under the conditions of objective judgment. Kant wrote his \"Critique of Pure Reason\" (1781–1787) in an attempt to reconcile the conflicting approaches of rationalism and empiricism, and to establish a new groundwork for studying metaphysics. Although Kant held that objective knowledge of the world required the mind to impose a conceptual or categorical framework on the stream of pure sensory data—a framework including space and time themselves—he maintained that \"things-in-themselves\" existed independently of human perceptions and judgments; he was therefore not an idealist in any simple sense. Kant's account of \"things-in-themselves\" is both controversial and highly complex. Continuing his work, Johann Gottlieb Fichte and Friedrich Schelling dispensed with belief in the independent existence of the world, and created a thoroughgoing idealist philosophy.\n\nThe most notable work of this German idealism was G. W. F. Hegel's \"Phenomenology of Spirit\", of 1807. Hegel admitted his ideas were not new, but that all the previous philosophies had been incomplete. His goal was to correctly finish their job. Hegel asserts that the twin aims of philosophy are to account for the contradictions apparent in human experience (which arise, for instance, out of the supposed contradictions between \"being\" and \"not being\"), and also simultaneously to resolve and preserve these contradictions by showing their compatibility at a higher level of examination (\"being\" and \"not being\" are resolved with \"becoming\"). This program of acceptance and reconciliation of contradictions is known as the \"Hegelian dialectic\".\n\nPhilosophers influenced by Hegel include Ludwig Andreas Feuerbach, who coined the term projection as pertaining to humans' inability to recognize anything in the external world without projecting qualities of ourselves upon those things; Karl Marx; Friedrich Engels; and the British idealists, notably T. H. Green, J. M. E. McTaggart and F. H. Bradley. Few 20th-century philosophers have embraced idealism. However, quite a few have embraced Hegelian dialectic. Immanuel Kant's \"Copernican Turn\" also remains an important philosophical concept today.\n\nMarxism is a method of socioeconomic analysis, originating from Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. It analyzes class relations and societal conflict using a materialist interpretation of historical development and a dialectical view of social transformation. Marxist analyses and methodologies influenced political ideologies and social movements. Marxist understandings of history and society were adopted by academics in archaeology, anthropology, media studies, political science, theater, history, sociology, art history and theory, cultural studies, education, economics, geography, literary criticism, aesthetics, critical psychology and philosophy.\n\nEdmund Husserl's phenomenology was an ambitious attempt to lay the foundations for an account of the structure of conscious experience in general. An important part of Husserl's phenomenological project was to show that all conscious acts are directed at or about objective content, a feature that Husserl called \"intentionality\". Husserl published only a few works in his lifetime, which treat phenomenology mainly in abstract methodological terms; but he left an enormous quantity of unpublished concrete analyses. Husserl's work was immediately influential in Germany, with the foundation of phenomenological schools in Munich and Göttingen. Phenomenology later achieved international fame through the work of such philosophers as Martin Heidegger (formerly Husserl's research assistant), Maurice Merleau-Ponty, and Jean-Paul Sartre. Through the work of Heidegger and Sartre, Husserl's focus on subjective experience influenced aspects of existentialism.\n\nInaugurated by the linguist Ferdinand de Saussure, structuralism sought to clarify systems of signs through analyzing the discourses they both limit and make possible. Saussure conceived of the sign as being delimited by all the other signs in the system, and ideas as being incapable of existence prior to linguistic structure, which articulates thought. This led Continental thought away from humanism, and toward what was termed the decentering of man: language is no longer spoken by man to express a true inner self, but language speaks man.\n\nStructuralism sought the province of a hard science, but its positivism soon came under fire by post-structuralism, a wide field of thinkers, some of whom were once themselves structuralists, but later came to criticize it. Structuralists believed they could analyze systems from an external, objective standing, for example, but the poststructuralists argued that this is incorrect, that one cannot transcend structures and thus analysis is itself determined by what it examines. While the distinction between the signifier and signified was treated as crystalline by structuralists, poststructuralists asserted that every attempt to grasp the signified results in more signifiers, so meaning is always in a state of being deferred, making an ultimate interpretation impossible.\n\nStructuralism came to dominate Continental philosophy throughout the 1960s and early 1970s, encompassing thinkers as diverse as Claude Lévi-Strauss, Roland Barthes and Jacques Lacan. Post-structuralism came to predominate from the 1970s onwards, including thinkers such as Michel Foucault, Jacques Derrida, Gilles Deleuze and even Roland Barthes; it incorporated a critique of structuralism's limitations.\n\nPragmatism is a philosophical tradition that began in the United States around 1870. It asserts that the truth of beliefs consists in their usefulness and efficacy rather than their correspondence with reality. Charles Sanders Peirce and William James were its co-founders and it was later modified by John Dewey as instrumentalism. Since the usefulness of any belief at any time might be contingent on circumstance, Peirce and James conceptualised final truth as something established only by the future, final settlement of all opinion.\n\nPragmatism attempted to find a scientific concept of truth that does not depend on personal insight (revelation) or reference to some metaphysical realm. It interpreted the meaning of a statement by the effect its acceptance would have on practice. Inquiry taken far enough is thus the only path to truth.\n\nFor Peirce commitment to inquiry was essential to truth-finding, implied by the idea and hope that inquiry is not fruitless. The interpretation of these principles has been subject to discussion ever since. Peirce's maxim of pragmatism is, \"Consider what effects, which might conceivably have practical bearings, we conceive the object of our conception to have. Then, our conception of these effects is the whole of our conception of the object.\"\n\nCritics accused pragmatism falling victim to a simple fallacy: that because something that is true proves useful, that usefulness is an appropriate basis for its truthfulness. Pragmatist thinkers include Dewey, George Santayana, and C. I. Lewis.\n\nPragmatism was later worked on by neopragmatists Richard Rorty (who was the first to develop neopragmatist philosophy in his \"Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature\" (1979)), Hilary Putnam, W. V. O. Quine, and Donald Davidson. Neopragmatism has been described as a bridge between analytic and Continental philosophy.\n\nProcess philosophy is a tradition beginning with Alfred North Whitehead, who began teaching and writing on process and metaphysics when he joined Harvard University in 1924. This tradition identifies metaphysical reality with change. \n\nProcess philosophy is sometimes classified as closer to Continental philosophy than analytic philosophy, because it is usually only taught in Continental departments. However, other sources state that process philosophy should be placed somewhere in the middle between the poles of analytic versus Continental methods in contemporary philosophy.\n\nLargely Aristotelian in its approach and content, Thomism is a philosophical tradition that follows the writings of Thomas Aquinas. His work has been read, studied and disputed since the 13th century, especially by Roman Catholics. Aquinas enjoyed a revived mainstream interest beginning in contemporary philosophy, among both atheists (Philippa Foot) and theists (Elizabeth Anscombe). Thomist philosophers tend to be rationalists in epistemology, as well as metaphysical realists and virtue ethicists. They claim that humans are rational animals whose good can be known by reason that can be achieved by the will. Thomists argue that soul or psyche is real and immaterial but inseparable from matter in organisms. Soul is the form of the body. Thomists accept Aristotle's causes as natural, including teleological or final causes. In this way, although Aquinas argued that whatever is in the intellect begins in the senses, natural teleology can be discerned with the senses and abstracted from nature through induction.\n\nContemporary Thomism encompasses multiple variants, from neo-scholasticism to existential Thomism.\n\nThe so-called new Natural lawyers like Grisez and George applied Thomistic legal principles to contemporary ethical debates, while Freeman proposed that Thomism's cognition was most compatible with neurodynamics. Analytical Thomism (Haldane) encourages dialogue between analytic philosophy and broadly Aristotelian philosophy of mind, psychology and hylomorphic metaphysics. Other contemporary Thomists include Stump, MacIntyre and Finnis.\n\nWestern philosophers have often been divided into some major branches, or schools, based either on the questions typically addressed by people working in different parts of the field, or notions of ideological undercurrents. In the ancient world, the most influential division of the subject was the Stoics' division of philosophy into logic, ethics, and physics (conceived as the study of the nature of the world, and including both natural science and metaphysics). In contemporary philosophy, specialties within the field are more commonly divided into metaphysics, epistemology, ethics and aesthetics (the latter two of which together comprise axiology, or value theory). Logic is sometimes included as a main branch of philosophy, sometimes as a separate science philosophers happen to work on, and sometimes just as a characteristically philosophical method applying to all branches of philosophy.\n\nWithin these broad branches there are now numerous sub-disciplines of philosophy. At the broadest level there is the division between analytic (the English-speaking world and Nordic countries) and Continental philosophy (in the rest of Europe). For Continental philosophy subdividing philosophy between \"experts\" is problematic for the very nature of the interdisciplinary task of philosophy itself; however, for most of analytic philosophy further divisions simplify the task for philosophers in each area.\n\nThe interest in particular sub-disciplines waxes and wanes over time; sometimes sub-disciplines become particularly hot topics and can occupy so much space in the literature that they almost seem like major branches in their own right. (Over the past 40 years or so philosophy of mind—which is, generally speaking, mainly a sub-discipline of metaphysics—has taken on this position within analytic philosophy, and has attracted so much attention that some suggest philosophy of mind as \"the\" paradigm for what contemporary analytic philosophers do).\n\nOriginally the term \"philosophy\" was applied to all intellectual endeavours. Aristotle studied what would now be called biology, meteorology, physics, and cosmology, alongside his metaphysics and ethics. Even in the eighteenth century physics and chemistry were still classified as \"natural philosophy\", that is, the philosophical study of nature. Today these latter subjects are popularly referred to as sciences, and as separate from philosophy. But the distinction is not clear; some philosophers still contend that science retains an unbroken — and unbreakable — link to philosophy.\n\nMore recently, psychology, economics, sociology, and linguistics were once the domain of philosophers insofar as they were studied at all, but now have only a weaker connection with the field. In the late twentieth century cognitive science and artificial intelligence could be seen as being forged in part out of \"philosophy of mind.\"\n\nPhilosophy is done primarily through self-reflection and critical thinking. It does not tend to rely on experiment. However, in some ways philosophy is close to science in its character and method; some analytic philosophers have suggested that the method of philosophical analysis allows philosophers to emulate the methods of natural science; Quine holds that philosophy does no more than clarify the arguments and claims of other sciences. This suggests that philosophy might be the study of meaning and reasoning generally; but some still would claim either that this is not a science, or that if it is it ought not to be pursued by philosophers.\n\nAll these views have something in common: whatever philosophy essentially is or is concerned with, it tends on the whole to proceed more \"abstractly\" than most (or most other) natural sciences. It does not depend as much on experience and experiment, and does not contribute as directly to technology. It clearly would be a mistake to identify philosophy with any one natural science; whether it can be identified with science very broadly construed is still an open question.\n\nThis is an active discipline pursued by both trained philosophers and scientists. Philosophers often refer to, and interpret, experimental work of various kinds (as in philosophy of physics and philosophy of psychology), but such branches of philosophy aim at philosophical understanding of experimental work. Philosophers do not perform experiments and formulate scientific theories \"qua\" philosophers.\n\nLike philosophy, most religious studies are not experimental. Parts of theology, including questions about the existence and nature of gods, clearly overlap with philosophy of religion. Aristotle considered theology a branch of metaphysics, the central field of philosophy, and most philosophers before the twentieth century have devoted significant effort to theological questions. So the two are not unrelated. But other parts of religious studies, such as the comparison of different world religions, can be easily distinguished from philosophy in just the way that any other social science can be distinguished from philosophy. These are closer to history and sociology, and involve specific observations of particular phenomena, here particular religious practices.\n\nThe empiricist tradition in modern philosophy often held that religious questions are beyond the scope of human knowledge, and many have claimed that religious language is literally meaningless: there are not even questions to be answered. Some philosophers have felt that these difficulties in evidence were irrelevant, and have argued for, against, or just about religious beliefs on moral or other grounds.\n\nThe philosophy of mathematics is a branch of philosophy of science; but in many ways mathematics has a special relationship to philosophy. This is because the study of logic is a central branch of philosophy, and mathematics is a paradigmatic example of logic. In the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries, logic made great advances, and mathematics has been proven to be reducible to logic (at least, to first-order logic with some set theory). The use of formal, mathematical logic in philosophy now resembles the use of mathematics in science, although it is not as frequent.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
