{"id": "45551114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45551114", "title": "A. I. Adams", "text": "A. I. Adams\n\nA. I. Adams was an American politician in the state of Washington. He served in the Washington House of Representatives from 1891 to 1893. He was born in Livonia, New York on September 21, 1865, attended the University of Rochester, and moved to Seattle in 1887. A real estate lawyer, he was the youngest member of the legislature during his term.\n"}
{"id": "47307911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47307911", "title": "A Certain Kind of Death", "text": "A Certain Kind of Death\n\nA Certain Kind of Death is an American documentary film examining what happens to the bodies of those who die with no next of kin. The film was awarded a Documentary Special Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival and a Jury Award for Best Documentary at the Atlanta Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "52005449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52005449", "title": "Abd Allah Pasha ibn Muhammad", "text": "Abd Allah Pasha ibn Muhammad\n\nSharif Abd Allah Pasha ibn Muhammad ( \"al-Sharīf ‘Abd Allāh Bāshā ibn Muḥammad\"; \"Şerif Abdullah Paşa bin Muhammed\"; d. 1877) was a sharif of the Awn clan who served as Emir and Sharif of Mecca from 1858 to 1877.\n"}
{"id": "31764761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31764761", "title": "Act as 1 Campaign", "text": "Act as 1 Campaign\n\nAct as 1 is a Domestic Violence and Family Violence Prevention campaign led by the Queensland Government in Australia. The campaign contains the core message that Domestic Violence and Family Violence affects women, men, children, families, neighbours, workplaces and communities and is estimated to cost the Queensland economy $2.7 to $3.2 billion annually.\n\nAct as 1 gathers community support to bring family violence out from behind closed doors. The Act as 1 message is a call to neighbours, friends, family members, colleagues and community members to take a stand against family violence and support those affected.\n\nThe campaign points out that we may all know someone who is experiencing family violence and suggests that we could be the \"1\" to spark a change and make a difference, suggesting that the more who Act as 1, the more powerful the message.\n\nMany community groups support the Government campaign including SunnyKids which developed a television campaign raising awareness of family violence and its impact on children in particular. Act as 1 for Kids\n\nThe campaign also identifies 5 ways to \"Act as 1\"\n\n\nFurther to activities during Queensland Domestic and Family Violence Prevention Awareness Month (May)the Act as 1 campaign raises awareness about elder abuse during the month of May. The Domestic and Family Violence Prevention Act in Queensland recognises elder abuse as a form of Domestic and Family Violence.\n"}
{"id": "12822324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12822324", "title": "Alex Bain", "text": "Alex Bain\n\nAlexander Edward Bain (born 22 January 1936; died 2014) was a professional footballer, who played for teams in both Scotland and England.\n\nHe scored two goals for in an extraordinary match between Charlton Athletic and Huddersfield Town that took place on 21 December 1957 at Charlton Athletic's home ground, The Valley. Charlton played most of the match with 10 men after their captain Derek Ufton was injured, and Huddersfield were leading 5–1 with just 27 minutes remaining. At that point, Johnny Summers began an extraordinary passage of play in which he scored five goals and assisted with two others to allow Charlton to win 7–6. Huddersfield become the first, and still the only, team to score six goals in an English Football League match - or indeed any other professional football match - and still be on the losing side.\n\n"}
{"id": "28668697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28668697", "title": "Ann Hibbins", "text": "Ann Hibbins\n\nAnn Hibbins (or Hibbons; Hibbens) was a woman executed for witchcraft in Boston, Massachusetts, on June 19, 1656. Her death by hanging was the third for witchcraft in Boston and predated the Salem witch trials in 1692. Hibbins was later fictionalized in Nathaniel Hawthorne's famous novel \"The Scarlet Letter\". A wealthy widow, Hibbins was the sister-in-law by marriage to Massachusetts governor Richard Bellingham. Her sentence was handed down by Governor John Endicott (also spelled \"Endecott\").\n\nAnn was twice widowed, first by a man named Moore. Together they had three sons who were all living in England at the time of her death. One son, Jonathan, was particularly favored in her will.\n\nAnn was widowed, secondly, by a wealthy merchant, William Hibbins whose first wife, Hester Bellingham (buried Stokesay, Shropshire on 3 Sep 1634), was the sister of Richard Bellingham, Governor of Massachusetts. He had been a deputy to the General Court and became assistant governor in 1643, and thus was one of the magistrates who condemned Margaret Jones for witchcraft in 1648. Hibbins held the powerful position of assistant until his death in 1654. Humphrey Atherton, who is said to have been \"instrumental in bringing about the execution of Ann Hibbins\", succeeded him in that position.\n\nIn 1640, Hibbins sued a group of carpenters, whom she had hired to work on her house, accusing them of overcharging her. She won the lawsuit, but her actions were viewed as \"abrasive\", and so she became subjected to an ecclesiastical inquest. Refusing to apologize to the carpenters for her actions, Hibbins was admonished and excommunicated. The church cited her for usurping her husband's authority. Within months of her husband's death, proceeding against her for witchcraft began.\n\nHibbins was tried and convicted in 1655, but her conviction was set aside. The case was heard again by the General Court. The Court's record from May 14, 1656, said: Mrs. Ann Hibbins was called forth, appeared at the bar; the indictment against her was read, to which she answered not guilty, and was willing to be tried by God and this Court. The evidences against her were read, the parties witnessing being present, her answers considered on; and the whole Court being met together, by their vote determined that Mrs. Ann Hibbins is guilty of witchcraft, according to the bill of indictment found against her by the jury of life and death. The Governor in open Court pronounced sentence accordingly, declaring she was to go from the bar to the place from whence she came, and from thence to the place of execution, and there to hang till she was dead.\n\nHistorians have found two things out of the ordinary about Ann Hibbins' execution: that a woman of her high social standing would have been persecuted as a witch; and that no evidence, contemporary to her and used to convict her, survived.\n\nShe had some supporters, at least initially, among them selectman Joshua Scottow, who later apologized to the General Court for his support of Hibbins. Nine months after her execution, Scottow \"stated that he did not intend to oppose the proceedings of the General Court in the case of Mrs. Ann Hibbins: \"I am cordially sorry that anything from me, either in word or writing, should give offence to the honored Court, my dear brethren in the church, or any others.\"\n\nAnother supporter was a prominent minister, John Norton, who said privately, in the company of another prominent minister, John Wilson, that Ann Hibbins \"was hanged for a witch only for having more wit than her neighbors.\" He further stated that Hibbins had \"unhappily guessed that two of her persecutors, whom she saw talking in the street, were talking of her, — which cost her her life.\"\n\nHibbins was fictionalized in Nathaniel Hawthorne's \"The Scarlet Letter\". In the novel, the central character, Hester Prynne, who has been convicted of adultery and sentenced to wearing the letter \"A\" upon her outer garment, comes in frequent contact with the witch, Mistress Hibbins.\n\nHawthorne's depiction of Hibbins has been analyzed by literary critics, who have determined that in the novel she, being a witch, represented for Prynne \"a rejected possibility of dealing with social stigma\". According to one analysis, \"Hibbins embodies the stereotype of the aged witch who tries to use Hester's stigma, the scarlet 'A', as an item to seduce Hester to join the Covenant with the Devil.\" This is presented, in contrast, by the fictional depiction of Ann Hutchinson, who represents the embodiment of an angel.\n\nHistorian Clarence F. Jewett included a list of other people executed in New England in \"The Memorial History of Boston: Including Suffolk County, Massachusetts 1630–1880\" (Boston: Ticknor and Company, 1881). He wrote, The following is the list of the twelve persons who were executed for witchcraft in New England before 1692, when twenty other persons were executed at Salem, whose names are well known. It is possible that the list is not complete ; but I have included all of which I have any knowledge, and with such details as to names and dates as could be ascertained:—<br>\n1647 — \"Woman of Windsor\", Connecticut (name unknown)[later identified as Alice Young], at Hartford.<br>\n1648, — Margaret Jones, of Charlestown, at Boston.<br>\n1648 — Mary Johnson, at Hartford.<br>\n1650 — Goodwife Lake, wife of Henry, of Dorchester.<br>\n1650 — Goodwife Kendall, of Cambridge.<br>\n1651 — Mary Parsons, of Springfield, at Boston.<br>\n1651 — Goodwife Bassett, at Fairfield, Conn.<br>\n1653 — Goodwife Knap, at Hartford.<br>\n1656 — Ann Hibbins, at Boston.<br>\n1662 — Goodman Greensmith, at Hartford.<br>\n1662 — Goodwife Greensmith, at Hartford.<br>\n1688 — Goody Glover, at Boston.\" \n\n\nNotes\nFootnotes\n"}
{"id": "2003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2003", "title": "Argument from morality", "text": "Argument from morality\n\nThe argument from morality is an argument for the existence of God. Arguments from morality tend to be based on moral normativity or moral order. Arguments from moral normativity observe some aspect of morality and argue that God is the best or only explanation for this, concluding that God must exist. Arguments from moral order are based on the asserted need for moral order to exist in the universe. They claim that, for this moral order to exist, God must exist to support it. The argument from morality is noteworthy in that one cannot evaluate the soundness of the argument without attending to almost every important philosophical issue in meta-ethics.\n\nGerman philosopher Immanuel Kant devised an argument from morality based on practical reason. Kant argued that the goal of humanity is to achieve perfect happiness and virtue (the summum bonum) and believed that an afterlife must exist in order for this to be possible, and that God must exist to provide this. In his book \"Mere Christianity\", C. S. Lewis argued that \"conscience reveals to us a moral law whose source cannot be found in the natural world, thus pointing to a supernatural Lawgiver.\" Lewis argued that accepting the validity of human reason as a given must include accepting the validity of practical reason, which could not be valid without reference to a higher cosmic moral order which could not exist without a God to create and/or establish it. A related argument is from conscience; John Henry Newman argued that the conscience supports the claim that objective moral truths exist because it drives people to act morally even when it is not in their own interest. Newman argued that, because the conscience suggests the existence of objective moral truths, God must exist to give authority to these truths.\n\nContemporary defenders of the argument from mortality are Graham Ward, Alister McGrath and William Lane Craig.\n\nAll variations of the argument from morality begin with an observation about moral thought or experiences and conclude with the existence of God. Some of these arguments propose moral facts which they claim evident through human experience, arguing that God is the best explanation for these. Other versions describe some end which humans should strive to attain, only possible if God exists.\n\nMany arguments from morality are based on moral normativity, which suggests that objective moral truths exist and require God's existence to give them authority. Often, they consider that morality seems to be binding – obligations are seen to convey more than just a preference, but imply that the obligation will stand, regardless of other factors or interests. For morality to be binding, God must exist. In its most general form, the argument from moral normativity is:\n\n\nSome arguments from moral order suggest that morality is based on rationality and that this can only be the case if there is a moral order in the universe. The arguments propose that only the existence of God as orthodoxly conceived could support the existence of moral order in the universe, so God must exist. Alternative arguments from moral order have proposed that we have an obligation to attain the perfect good of both happiness and moral virtue. They attest that whatever we are obliged to do must be possible, and achieving the perfect good of both happiness and moral virtue is only possible if a natural moral order exists. A natural moral order requires the existence of God as orthodoxly conceived, so God must exist.\n\nIn his \"Critique of Pure Reason\", German philosopher Immanuel Kant stated that no successful argument for God's existence arises from reason alone. In his \"Critique of Practical Reason\" he went on to argue that, despite the failure of these arguments, morality requires that God's existence is assumed, owing to practical reason. Rather than proving the existence of God, Kant was attempting to demonstrate that all moral thought requires the assumption that God exists. Kant argued that humans are obliged to bring about the \"summum bonum\": the two central aims of moral virtue and happiness, where happiness arises out of virtue. As ought implies can, Kant argued, it must be possible for the \"summum bonum\" to be achieved. He accepted that it is not within the power of humans to bring the \"summum bonum\" about, because we cannot ensure that virtue always leads to happiness, so there must be a higher power who has the power to create an afterlife where virtue can be rewarded by happiness.\n\nPhilosopher G. H. R. Parkinson notes a common objection to Kant's argument: that what ought to be done does not necessarily entail that it is possible. He also argues that alternative conceptions of morality exist which do not rely on the assumptions that Kant makes – he cites utilitarianism as an example which does not require the \"summum bonum\". Nicholas Everitt argues that much moral guidance is unattainable, such as the Biblical command to be Christ-like. He proposes that Kant's first two premises only entail that we must try to achieve the perfect good, not that it is actually attainable.\n\nBoth theists and non-theists have accepted that the existence of objective moral truths might entail the existence of God. Atheist philosopher J. L. Mackie accepted that, if objective moral truths existed, they would warrant a supernatural explanation. Scottish philosopher W. R. Sorley presented the following argument:\n\nMany critics have challenged the second premise of this argument, by offering a biological and sociological account of the development of human morality which suggests that it is neither objective nor absolute. This account, supported by biologist E. O. Wilson and philosopher Michael Ruse, proposes that the human experience of morality is a by-product of natural selection, a theory philosopher Mark D. Linville calls evolutionary naturalism. According to the theory, the human experience of moral obligations was the result of evolutionary pressures, which attached a sense of morality to human psychology because it was useful for moral development; this entails that moral values do not exist independently of the human mind. Morality might be better understood as an evolutionary imperative in order to propagate genes and ultimately reproduce. No human society today advocates immorality, such as theft or murder, because it would undoubtedly lead to the end of that particular society and any chance for future survival of offspring. Scottish empiricist David Hume made a similar argument, that belief in objective moral truths is unwarranted and to discuss them is meaningless.\n\nBecause evolutionary naturalism proposes an empirical account of morality, it does not require morality to exist objectively; Linville considers the view that this will lead to moral scepticism or antirealism. C. S. Lewis argued that, if evolutionary naturalism is accepted, human morality cannot be described as absolute and objective because moral statements cannot be right or wrong. Despite this, Lewis argued, those who accept evolutionary naturalism still act as if objective moral truths exist, leading Lewis to reject naturalism as incoherent. As an alternative ethical theory, Lewis offered a form of divine command theory which equated God with goodness and treated goodness as an essential part of reality, thus asserting God's existence.\n\nJ.C.A. Gaskin challenges the first premise of the argument from moral objectivity, arguing that it must be shown why absolute and objective morality entails that morality is commanded by God, rather than simply a human invention. It could be the consent of humanity that gives it moral force, for example. American philosopher Michael Martin argues that it is not necessarily true that objective moral truths must entail the existence of God, suggesting that there could be alternative explanations: he argues that naturalism may be an acceptable explanation and, even if a supernatural explanation is necessary, it does not have to be God (polytheism is a viable alternative). Martin also argues that a non-objective account of ethics might be acceptable and challenges the view that a subjective account of morality would lead to moral anarchy.\n\nRelated to the argument from morality is the argument from conscience, associated with eighteenth-century bishop Joseph Butler and nineteenth-century cardinal John Henry Newman. Newman proposed that the conscience, as well as giving moral guidance, provides evidence of objective moral truths which must be supported by the divine. He argued that emotivism is an inadequate explanation of the human experience of morality because people avoid acting immorally, even when it might be in their interests. Newman proposed that, to explain the conscience, God must exist.\n\nBritish philosopher John Locke argued that moral rules cannot be established from conscience because the differences in people's consciences would lead to contradictions. Locke also noted that the conscience is influenced by \"education, company, and customs of the country\", a criticism mounted by J. L. Mackie, who argued that the conscience should be seen as an \"introjection\" of other people into an agent's mind. Michael Martin challenges the argument from conscience with a naturalistic account of conscience, arguing that naturalism provides an adequate explanation for the conscience without the need for God's existence. He uses the example of the internalization by humans of social pressures, which leads to the fear of going against these norms. Even if a supernatural cause is required, he argues, it could be something other than God; this would mean that the phenomenon of the conscience is no more supportive of monotheism than polytheism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11230690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11230690", "title": "Autognostics", "text": "Autognostics\n\nAutognostics is a new paradigm that describes the capacity for computer networks to be self-aware. It is considered as one of the major components of Autonomic Networking.\n\nOne of the most important characteristics of today’s Internet that has contributed to its success is its basic design principle: a simple and transparent core with intelligence at the edges (the so-called \"end-to-end principle\"). Based on this principle, the network carries data without knowing the characteristics of that data (e.g., voice, video, etc.) - only the end-points have application-specific knowledge. If something goes wrong with the data, only the edge may be able to recognize that since it knows about the application and what the expected behavior is. The core has no information about what should happen with that data - it only forwards packets.\n\nAlthough an effective and beneficial attribute, this design principle has also led to many of today’s problems, limitations, and frustrations. Currently, it is almost impossible for most end-users to know why certain network-based applications do not work well and what they need to do to make it better. Also, network operators who interact with the core in low-level terms such as router configuration have problems expressing their high-level goals into low-level actions. In high-level terms, this may be summarized as a weak coupling between the network and application layers of the overall system.\n\nAs a consequence of the Internet end-to-end principle, the network performance experienced by a particular application is difficult to attribute based on the behavior of the individual elements. At any given moment, the measure of performance between any two points is typically unknown and applications must operate blindly. As a further consequence, changes to the configuration of given element, or changes in the end-to-end path, cannot easily be validated. Optimization and provisioning cannot then be automated except against only the simplest design specifications.\n\nThere is an increasing interest in Autonomic Networking research, and a strong conviction that an evolution from the current networking status quo is necessary. Although to date there have not been any practical implementations demonstrating the benefits of an effective autonomic networking paradigm, there seems to be a consensus as to the characteristics which such implementations would need to demonstrate. These specifically include continuous monitoring, identifying, diagnosing and fixing problems based on high-level policies and objectives.\n\nAutognostics, as a major part of the autonomic networking concept, intends to bring networks to a new level of awareness and eliminate the lack of visibility which currently exists in today's networks.\n\nAutognostics is a new paradigm that describes the capacity for computer networks to be self-aware, in part and as a whole, and dynamically adapt to the applications running on them by autonomously monitoring, identifying, diagnosing, resolving issues, subsequently verifying that any remediation was successful, and reporting the impact with respect to the application’s use (i.e., providing visibility into the changes to networks and their effects).\n\nAlthough similar to the concept of \"network awareness\", i.e., the capability of network devices and applications to be aware of network characteristics (see References section below), it is noteworthy that autognostics takes that concept one step further. The main difference is the \"auto\" part of autognostics, which entails that network devices are \"self\"-aware of network characteristics, and have the capability to adapt \"themselves\" as a result of continuous monitoring and diagnostics.\n\nAutognostics, or in other words \"deep self-knowledge\", can be best described as \"the ability of a network to know itself and the applications that run on it\". This knowledge is used to autonomously adapt to dynamic network and application conditions such as utilization, capacity, quality of service/application/user experience, etc.\n\nIn order to achieve autognosis, networks need a means to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47618898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47618898", "title": "Billy (slave)", "text": "Billy (slave)\n\nBilly (born c. 1754) was an enslaved man from Virginia who was charged with treason during the American Revolution. He was pardoned in 1781 after a letter was written arguing that, as a slave, he was not a citizen and thus could not commit treason against a government to which he owed no allegiance.\n\nVery little is known about Billy's life aside from his trial. He was likely born around 1754 and historians believe that he is possibly the same Billy that was enslaved by the wealthy planter John Tayloe II who had one of his employees place an advertisement about a runaway \"mulatto\" in 1774. In the advertisement Tayloe's employee stated that Billy was a runaway slave and apart from being an extremely skilled worker, he was also capable of gaining \"the good Graces of almost everybody who will listen.\" Historian Lathan A. Windley believes that during this time Billy purchased a forged pass with the intent to liberate himself by travelling to another state.\n\nOn April 2, 1781 Billy was indicted by the Prince William County Court for committing treasonous acts against the state of Virginia. Billy had been charged with joining the British forces aboard an armed vessel with the intent to fight against the colonies during the American Revolutionary War. This was not an uncommon accusation during this time period, as many slaves had been promised their freedom in return for fighting for the British; however, Billy argued that he had been forced on to the ship and that he had never taken up arms. Despite this, Billy was convicted and sentenced to death by hanging.\n\nTwo of the jury members, Henry Lee II and William Carr, along with Mann Page, argued against Billy's death sentence and wrote a letter to Thomas Jefferson, then Governor of Virginia, to appeal for clemency. Lee and Carr felt that a slave \"not being Admitted to the Priviledges [sic] of a Citizen owes the State No Allegiance and that the Act declaring what shall be treason cannot be intended by the Legislature to include slaves who have neither lands or other property to forfeit.\" Their actions were successful, as Jefferson granted Billy a temporary reprieve and Billy was officially pardoned by the state legislature on June 14. Nothing was written of what happened to Billy after he was pardoned.\n\nLee and Carr's argument contrasted with previous, similar cases of slaves charged with treason. Historians H. J. Eckenrode and Philip J. Schwarz commented on the decision, with Eckenrode writing that this \"was a new doctrine, fruit of Revolutionary humanitarianism\" and Schwartz stating that \"His case was doubly ironic. A slave, he was nevertheless tried for disobeying one of the laws of the commonwealth. Excluded from the protections conferred by citizenship, he was still shielded from execution because Virginia's law of treason could not logically apply to him.\"\n"}
{"id": "1709515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1709515", "title": "Bloody show", "text": "Bloody show\n\nBloody show is the passage of a small amount of blood or blood-tinged mucus through the vagina near the end of pregnancy. It is caused by the detachment of the cervical mucus plug that seals the cervix during pregnancy, and is one of the signs that labor may be imminent. Although the bloody show is a common and harmless cause of bleeding in late pregnancy, there are many other possible causes for vaginal bleeding, some of which may indicate serious medical problems such as miscarriage or placental abruption, and vaginal bleeding should not be ignored as a possible sign of serious complications. \n\n"}
{"id": "6295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6295", "title": "Chaos theory", "text": "Chaos theory\n\nChaos theory is a branch of mathematics focusing on the behavior of dynamical systems that are highly sensitive to initial conditions. \"Chaos\" is an interdisciplinary theory stating that within the apparent randomness of chaotic complex systems, there are underlying patterns, constant feedback loops, repetition, self-similarity, fractals, self-organization, and reliance on programming at the initial point known as \"sensitive dependence on initial conditions\". The butterfly effect describes how a small change in one state of a deterministic nonlinear system can result in large differences in a later state, e.g. a butterfly flapping its wings in Brazil can cause a hurricane in Texas.\n\nSmall differences in initial conditions, such as those due to rounding errors in numerical computation, yield widely diverging outcomes for such dynamical systems, rendering long-term prediction of their behavior impossible in general. This happens even though these systems are deterministic, meaning that their future behavior is fully determined by their initial conditions, with no random elements involved. In other words, the deterministic nature of these systems does not make them predictable. This behavior is known as deterministic chaos, or simply chaos. The theory was summarized by Edward Lorenz as:\n\nChaotic behavior exists in many natural systems, such as weather and climate. It also occurs spontaneously in some systems with artificial components, such as road traffic. This behavior can be studied through analysis of a chaotic mathematical model, or through analytical techniques such as recurrence plots and Poincaré maps. Chaos theory has applications in several disciplines, including meteorology, anthropology, sociology, physics, environmental science, computer science, engineering, economics, biology, ecology, and philosophy. The theory formed the basis for such fields of study as complex dynamical systems, edge of chaos theory, and self-assembly processes.\n\nChaos theory concerns deterministic systems whose behavior can in principle be predicted. Chaotic systems are predictable for a while and then 'appear' to become random. The amount of time that the behavior of a chaotic system can be effectively predicted depends on three things: How much uncertainty can be tolerated in the forecast, how accurately its current state can be measured, and a time scale depending on the dynamics of the system, called the Lyapunov time. Some examples of Lyapunov times are: chaotic electrical circuits, about 1 millisecond; weather systems, a few days (unproven); the solar system, 50 million years. In chaotic systems, the uncertainty in a forecast increases exponentially with elapsed time. Hence, mathematically, doubling the forecast time more than squares the proportional uncertainty in the forecast. This means, in practice, a meaningful prediction cannot be made over an interval of more than two or three times the Lyapunov time. When meaningful predictions cannot be made, the system appears random.\n\nIn common usage, \"chaos\" means \"a state of disorder\". However, in chaos theory, the term is defined more precisely. Although no universally accepted mathematical definition of chaos exists, a commonly used definition originally formulated by Robert L. Devaney says that, to classify a dynamical system as chaotic, it must have these properties:\n\n\nIn some cases, the last two properties in the above have been shown to actually imply sensitivity to initial conditions. In these cases, while it is often the most practically significant property, \"sensitivity to initial conditions\" need not be stated in the definition.\n\nIf attention is restricted to intervals, the second property implies the other two. An alternative, and in general weaker, definition of chaos uses only the first two properties in the above list.\n\nIn continuous time dynamical systems, chaos is the phenomenon of the spontaneous breakdown of topological supersymmetry which is an intrinsic property of evolution operators of all stochastic and deterministic (partial) differential equations. This picture of dynamical chaos works not only for deterministic models but also for models with external noise, which is an important generalization from the physical point of view because in reality all dynamical systems experience influence from their stochastic environments. Within this picture, the long-range dynamical behavior associated with chaotic dynamics, e.g., the butterfly effect, is a consequence of the Goldstone's theorem in the application to the spontaneous topological supersymmetry breaking.\n\nSensitivity to initial conditions means that each point in a chaotic system is arbitrarily closely approximated by other points with significantly different future paths, or trajectories. Thus, an arbitrarily small change, or perturbation, of the current trajectory may lead to significantly different future behavior.\n\nSensitivity to initial conditions is popularly known as the \"butterfly effect\", so-called because of the title of a paper given by Edward Lorenz in 1972 to the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C., entitled \"Predictability: Does the Flap of a Butterfly's Wings in Brazil set off a Tornado in Texas?\". The flapping wing represents a small change in the initial condition of the system, which causes a chain of events that prevents the predictability of large-scale phenomena. Had the butterfly not flapped its wings, the trajectory of the overall system would have been vastly different.\n\nA consequence of sensitivity to initial conditions is that if we start with a limited amount of information about the system (as is usually the case in practice), then beyond a certain time the system is no longer predictable. This is most prevalent in the case of weather, which is generally predictable only about a week ahead. Of course, this does not mean that we cannot say anything about events far in the future; some restrictions on the system are present. With weather, we know that the temperature will not naturally reach 100 °C or fall to −130 °C on earth (during the current geologic era), but we can't say exactly what day will have the hottest temperature of the year.\n\nIn more mathematical terms, the Lyapunov exponent measures the sensitivity to initial conditions. Given two starting trajectories in the phase space that are infinitesimally close, with initial separation formula_1, the two trajectories end up diverging at a rate given by\n\nwhere t is the time and λ is the Lyapunov exponent. The rate of separation depends on the orientation of the initial separation vector, so a whole spectrum of Lyapunov exponents exist. The number of Lyapunov exponents is equal to the number of dimensions of the phase space, though it is common to just refer to the largest one. For example, the maximal Lyapunov exponent (MLE) is most often used because it determines the overall predictability of the system. A positive MLE is usually taken as an indication that the system is chaotic.\n\nAlso, other properties relate to sensitivity of initial conditions, such as measure-theoretical mixing (as discussed in ergodic theory) and properties of a K-system.\n\nTopological mixing (or topological transitivity) means that the system evolves over time so that any given region or open set of its phase space eventually overlaps with any other given region. This mathematical concept of \"mixing\" corresponds to the standard intuition, and the mixing of colored dyes or fluids is an example of a chaotic system.\n\nTopological mixing is often omitted from popular accounts of chaos, which equate chaos with only sensitivity to initial conditions. However, sensitive dependence on initial conditions alone does not give chaos. For example, consider the simple dynamical system produced by repeatedly doubling an initial value. This system has sensitive dependence on initial conditions everywhere, since any pair of nearby points eventually becomes widely separated. However, this example has no topological mixing, and therefore has no chaos. Indeed, it has extremely simple behavior: all points except 0 tend to positive or negative infinity.\n\nFor a chaotic system to have dense periodic orbits means that every point in the space is approached arbitrarily closely by periodic orbits. The one-dimensional logistic map defined by \"x\" → 4 \"x\" (1 – \"x\") is one of the simplest systems with density of periodic orbits. For example, formula_3 → formula_4 → formula_3 (or approximately 0.3454915 → 0.9045085 → 0.3454915) is an (unstable) orbit of period 2, and similar orbits exist for periods 4, 8, 16, etc. (indeed, for all the periods specified by Sharkovskii's theorem).\n\nSharkovskii's theorem is the basis of the Li and Yorke (1975) proof that any continuous one-dimensional system that exhibits a regular cycle of period three will also display regular cycles of every other length, as well as completely chaotic orbits.\n\nSome dynamical systems, like the one-dimensional logistic map defined by \"x\" → 4 \"x\" (1 – \"x\"), are chaotic everywhere, but in many cases chaotic behavior is found only in a subset of phase space. The cases of most interest arise when the chaotic behavior takes place on an attractor, since then a large set of initial conditions leads to orbits that converge to this chaotic region.\n\nAn easy way to visualize a chaotic attractor is to start with a point in the basin of attraction of the attractor, and then simply plot its subsequent orbit. Because of the topological transitivity condition, this is likely to produce a picture of the entire final attractor, and indeed both orbits shown in the figure on the right give a picture of the general shape of the Lorenz attractor. This attractor results from a simple three-dimensional model of the Lorenz weather system. The Lorenz attractor is perhaps one of the best-known chaotic system diagrams, probably because it was not only one of the first, but it is also one of the most complex and as such gives rise to a very interesting pattern that, with a little imagination, looks like the wings of a butterfly.\n\nUnlike fixed-point attractors and limit cycles, the attractors that arise from chaotic systems, known as strange attractors, have great detail and complexity. Strange attractors occur in both continuous dynamical systems (such as the Lorenz system) and in some discrete systems (such as the Hénon map). Other discrete dynamical systems have a repelling structure called a Julia set, which forms at the boundary between basins of attraction of fixed points. Julia sets can be thought of as strange repellers. Both strange attractors and Julia sets typically have a fractal structure, and the fractal dimension can be calculated for them.\n\nDiscrete chaotic systems, such as the logistic map, can exhibit strange attractors whatever their dimensionality. In contrast, for continuous dynamical systems, the Poincaré–Bendixson theorem shows that a strange attractor can only arise in three or more dimensions. Finite-dimensional linear systems are never chaotic; for a dynamical system to display chaotic behavior, it must be either nonlinear or infinite-dimensional.\n\nThe Poincaré–Bendixson theorem states that a two-dimensional differential equation has very regular behavior. The Lorenz attractor discussed below is generated by a system of three differential equations such as:\nwhere formula_7, formula_8, and formula_9 make up the system state, formula_10 is time, and formula_11, formula_12, formula_13 are the system parameters. Five of the terms on the right hand side are linear, while two are quadratic; a total of seven terms. Another well-known chaotic attractor is generated by the Rössler equations, which have only one nonlinear term out of seven. Sprott found a three-dimensional system with just five terms, that had only one nonlinear term, which exhibits chaos for certain parameter values. Zhang and Heidel showed that, at least for dissipative and conservative quadratic systems, three-dimensional quadratic systems with only three or four terms on the right-hand side cannot exhibit chaotic behavior. The reason is, simply put, that solutions to such systems are asymptotic to a two-dimensional surface and therefore solutions are well behaved.\n\nWhile the Poincaré–Bendixson theorem shows that a continuous dynamical system on the Euclidean plane cannot be chaotic, two-dimensional continuous systems with non-Euclidean geometry can exhibit chaotic behavior. Perhaps surprisingly, chaos may occur also in linear systems, provided they are infinite dimensional. A theory of linear chaos is being developed in a branch of mathematical analysis known as functional analysis.\n\nIn physics, jerk is the third derivative of position, with respect to time. As such, differential equations of the form\nare sometimes called \"Jerk equations\". It has been shown that a jerk equation, which is equivalent to a system of three first order, ordinary, non-linear differential equations, is in a certain sense the minimal setting for solutions showing chaotic behaviour. This motivates mathematical interest in jerk systems. Systems involving a fourth or higher derivative are called accordingly hyperjerk systems.\n\nA jerk system's behavior is described by a jerk equation, and for certain jerk equations, simple electronic circuits can model solutions. These circuits are known as jerk circuits.\n\nOne of the most interesting properties of jerk circuits is the possibility of chaotic behavior. In fact, certain well-known chaotic systems, such as the Lorenz attractor and the Rössler map, are conventionally described as a system of three first-order differential equations that can combine into a single (although rather complicated) jerk equation. Nonlinear jerk systems are in a sense minimally complex systems to show chaotic behaviour; there is no chaotic system involving only two first-order, ordinary differential equations (the system resulting in an equation of second order only).\n\nAn example of a jerk equation with nonlinearity in the magnitude of formula_7 is:\n\nHere, \"A\" is an adjustable parameter. This equation has a chaotic solution for \"A\"=3/5 and can be implemented with the following jerk circuit; the required nonlinearity is brought about by the two diodes:\n\nIn the above circuit, all resistors are of equal value, except formula_17, and all capacitors are of equal size. The dominant frequency is formula_18. The output of op amp 0 will correspond to the x variable, the output of 1 corresponds to the first derivative of x and the output of 2 corresponds to the second derivative.\n\nUnder the right conditions, chaos spontaneously evolves into a lockstep pattern. In the Kuramoto model, four conditions suffice to produce synchronization in a chaotic system.\nExamples include the coupled oscillation of Christiaan Huygens' pendulums, fireflies, neurons, the London Millennium Bridge resonance, and large arrays of Josephson junctions.\n\nAn early proponent of chaos theory was Henri Poincaré. In the 1880s, while studying the three-body problem, he found that there can be orbits that are nonperiodic, and yet not forever increasing nor approaching a fixed point. In 1898, Jacques Hadamard published an influential study of the chaotic motion of a free particle gliding frictionlessly on a surface of constant negative curvature, called \"Hadamard's billiards\". Hadamard was able to show that all trajectories are unstable, in that all particle trajectories diverge exponentially from one another, with a positive Lyapunov exponent.\n\nChaos theory began in the field of ergodic theory. Later studies, also on the topic of nonlinear differential equations, were carried out by George David Birkhoff, Andrey Nikolaevich Kolmogorov, Mary Lucy Cartwright and John Edensor Littlewood, and Stephen Smale. Except for Smale, these studies were all directly inspired by physics: the three-body problem in the case of Birkhoff, turbulence and astronomical problems in the case of Kolmogorov, and radio engineering in the case of Cartwright and Littlewood. Although chaotic planetary motion had not been observed, experimentalists had encountered turbulence in fluid motion and nonperiodic oscillation in radio circuits without the benefit of a theory to explain what they were seeing.\n\nDespite initial insights in the first half of the twentieth century, chaos theory became formalized as such only after mid-century, when it first became evident to some scientists that linear theory, the prevailing system theory at that time, simply could not explain the observed behavior of certain experiments like that of the logistic map. What had been attributed to measure imprecision and simple \"noise\" was considered by chaos theorists as a full component of the studied systems.\n\nThe main catalyst for the development of chaos theory was the electronic computer. Much of the mathematics of chaos theory involves the repeated iteration of simple mathematical formulas, which would be impractical to do by hand. Electronic computers made these repeated calculations practical, while figures and images made it possible to visualize these systems. As a graduate student in Chihiro Hayashi's laboratory at Kyoto University, Yoshisuke Ueda was experimenting with analog computers and noticed, on November 27, 1961, what he called \"randomly transitional phenomena\". Yet his advisor did not agree with his conclusions at the time, and did not allow him to report his findings until 1970.\n\nEdward Lorenz was an early pioneer of the theory. His interest in chaos came about accidentally through his work on weather prediction in 1961. Lorenz was using a simple digital computer, a Royal McBee LGP-30, to run his weather simulation. He wanted to see a sequence of data again, and to save time he started the simulation in the middle of its course. He did this by entering a printout of the data that corresponded to conditions in the middle of the original simulation. To his surprise, the weather the machine began to predict was completely different from the previous calculation. Lorenz tracked this down to the computer printout. The computer worked with 6-digit precision, but the printout rounded variables off to a 3-digit number, so a value like 0.506127 printed as 0.506. This difference is tiny, and the consensus at the time would have been that it should have no practical effect. However, Lorenz discovered that small changes in initial conditions produced large changes in long-term outcome. Lorenz's discovery, which gave its name to Lorenz attractors, showed that even detailed atmospheric modelling cannot, in general, make precise long-term weather predictions.\n\nIn 1963, Benoit Mandelbrot found recurring patterns at every scale in data on cotton prices. Beforehand he had studied information theory and concluded noise was patterned like a Cantor set: on any scale the proportion of noise-containing periods to error-free periods was a constant – thus errors were inevitable and must be planned for by incorporating redundancy. Mandelbrot described both the \"Noah effect\" (in which sudden discontinuous changes can occur) and the \"Joseph effect\" (in which persistence of a value can occur for a while, yet suddenly change afterwards). This challenged the idea that changes in price were normally distributed. In 1967, he published \"How long is the coast of Britain? Statistical self-similarity and fractional dimension\", showing that a coastline's length varies with the scale of the measuring instrument, resembles itself at all scales, and is infinite in length for an infinitesimally small measuring device. Arguing that a ball of twine appears as a point when viewed from far away (0-dimensional), a ball when viewed from fairly near (3-dimensional), or a curved strand (1-dimensional), he argued that the dimensions of an object are relative to the observer and may be fractional. An object whose irregularity is constant over different scales (\"self-similarity\") is a fractal (examples include the Menger sponge, the Sierpiński gasket, and the Koch curve or \"snowflake\", which is infinitely long yet encloses a finite space and has a fractal dimension of circa 1.2619). In 1982, Mandelbrot published \"The Fractal Geometry of Nature\", which became a classic of chaos theory. Biological systems such as the branching of the circulatory and bronchial systems proved to fit a fractal model.\n\nIn December 1977, the New York Academy of Sciences organized the first symposium on chaos, attended by David Ruelle, Robert May, James A. Yorke (coiner of the term \"chaos\" as used in mathematics), Robert Shaw, and the meteorologist Edward Lorenz. The following year, independently Pierre Coullet and Charles Tresser with the article \"Iterations d'endomorphismes et groupe de renormalisation\" and Mitchell Feigenbaum with the article \"Quantitative Universality for a Class of Nonlinear Transformations\" described logistic maps. They notably discovered the universality in chaos, permitting the application of chaos theory to many different phenomena.\n\nIn 1979, Albert J. Libchaber, during a symposium organized in Aspen by Pierre Hohenberg, presented his experimental observation of the bifurcation cascade that leads to chaos and turbulence in Rayleigh–Bénard convection systems. He was awarded the Wolf Prize in Physics in 1986 along with Mitchell J. Feigenbaum for their inspiring achievements.\n\nIn 1986, the New York Academy of Sciences co-organized with the National Institute of Mental Health and the Office of Naval Research the first important conference on chaos in biology and medicine. There, Bernardo Huberman presented a mathematical model of the eye tracking disorder among schizophrenics. This led to a renewal of physiology in the 1980s through the application of chaos theory, for example, in the study of pathological cardiac cycles.\n\nIn 1987, Per Bak, Chao Tang and Kurt Wiesenfeld published a paper in \"Physical Review Letters\" describing for the first time self-organized criticality (SOC), considered one of the mechanisms by which complexity arises in nature.\n\nAlongside largely lab-based approaches such as the Bak–Tang–Wiesenfeld sandpile, many other investigations have focused on large-scale natural or social systems that are known (or suspected) to display scale-invariant behavior. Although these approaches were not always welcomed (at least initially) by specialists in the subjects examined, SOC has nevertheless become established as a strong candidate for explaining a number of natural phenomena, including earthquakes, (which, long before SOC was discovered, were known as a source of scale-invariant behavior such as the Gutenberg–Richter law describing the statistical distribution of earthquake sizes, and the Omori law describing the frequency of aftershocks), solar flares, fluctuations in economic systems such as financial markets (references to SOC are common in econophysics), landscape formation, forest fires, landslides, epidemics, and biological evolution (where SOC has been invoked, for example, as the dynamical mechanism behind the theory of \"punctuated equilibria\" put forward by Niles Eldredge and Stephen Jay Gould). Given the implications of a scale-free distribution of event sizes, some researchers have suggested that another phenomenon that should be considered an example of SOC is the occurrence of wars. These investigations of SOC have included both attempts at modelling (either developing new models or adapting existing ones to the specifics of a given natural system), and extensive data analysis to determine the existence and/or characteristics of natural scaling laws.\n\nIn the same year, James Gleick published \"\", which became a best-seller and introduced the general principles of chaos theory as well as its history to the broad public, though his history under-emphasized important Soviet contributions. Initially the domain of a few, isolated individuals, chaos theory progressively emerged as a transdisciplinary and institutional discipline, mainly under the name of nonlinear systems analysis. Alluding to Thomas Kuhn's concept of a paradigm shift exposed in \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" (1962), many \"chaologists\" (as some described themselves) claimed that this new theory was an example of such a shift, a thesis upheld by Gleick.\n\nThe availability of cheaper, more powerful computers broadens the applicability of chaos theory. Currently, chaos theory remains an active area of research, involving many different disciplines (mathematics, topology, physics, social systems, population modeling, biology, meteorology, astrophysics, information theory, computational neuroscience, etc.).\n\nChaos theory was born from observing weather patterns, but it has become applicable to a variety of other situations. Some areas benefiting from chaos theory today are geology, mathematics, microbiology, biology, computer science, economics, engineering,Applying Chaos Theory to Embedded Applications</ref> finance, algorithmic trading, meteorology, philosophy, anthropology, physics, politics, population dynamics, psychology, and robotics. A few categories are listed below with examples, but this is by no means a comprehensive list as new applications are appearing.\n\nChaos theory has been used for many years in cryptography. In the past few decades, chaos and nonlinear dynamics have been used in the design of hundreds of cryptographic primitives. These algorithms include image encryption algorithms, hash functions, secure pseudo-random number generators, stream ciphers, watermarking and steganography. The majority of these algorithms are based on uni-modal chaotic maps and a big portion of these algorithms use the control parameters and the initial condition of the chaotic maps as their keys. From a wider perspective, without loss of generality, the similarities between the chaotic maps and the cryptographic systems is the main motivation for the design of chaos based cryptographic algorithms. One type of encryption, secret key or symmetric key, relies on diffusion and confusion, which is modeled well by chaos theory. Another type of computing, DNA computing, when paired with chaos theory, offers a way to encrypt images and other information. Many of the DNA-Chaos cryptographic algorithms are proven to be either not secure, or the technique applied is suggested to be not efficient.\n\nRobotics is another area that has recently benefited from chaos theory. Instead of robots acting in a trial-and-error type of refinement to interact with their environment, chaos theory has been used to build a predictive model.\nChaotic dynamics have been exhibited by passive walking biped robots.\n\nFor over a hundred years, biologists have been keeping track of populations of different species with population models. Most models are continuous, but recently scientists have been able to implement chaotic models in certain populations. For example, a study on models of Canadian lynx showed there was chaotic behavior in the population growth. Chaos can also be found in ecological systems, such as hydrology. While a chaotic model for hydrology has its shortcomings, there is still much to learn from looking at the data through the lens of chaos theory. Another biological application is found in cardiotocography. Fetal surveillance is a delicate balance of obtaining accurate information while being as noninvasive as possible. Better models of warning signs of fetal hypoxia can be obtained through chaotic modeling.\n\nIn chemistry, predicting gas solubility is essential to manufacturing polymers, but models using particle swarm optimization (PSO) tend to converge to the wrong points. An improved version of PSO has been created by introducing chaos, which keeps the simulations from getting stuck. In celestial mechanics, especially when observing asteroids, applying chaos theory leads to better predictions about when these objects will approach Earth and other planets. Four of the five moons of Pluto rotate chaotically. In quantum physics and electrical engineering, the study of large arrays of Josephson junctions benefitted greatly from chaos theory. Closer to home, coal mines have always been dangerous places where frequent natural gas leaks cause many deaths. Until recently, there was no reliable way to predict when they would occur. But these gas leaks have chaotic tendencies that, when properly modeled, can be predicted fairly accurately.\n\nChaos theory can be applied outside of the natural sciences, but historically nearly all such studies have suffered from lack of reproducibility; poor external validity; and/or inattention to cross-validation, resulting in poor predictive accuracy (if out-of-sample prediction has even been attempted). Glass and Mandell and Selz have found that no EEG study has as yet indicated the presence of strange attractors or other signs of chaotic behavior.\n\nResearchers have continued to apply chaos theory to psychology. For example, in modeling group behavior in which heterogeneous members may behave as if sharing to different degrees what in Wilfred Bion's theory is a basic assumption, researchers have found that the group dynamic is the result of the individual dynamics of the members: each individual reproduces the group dynamics in a different scale, and the chaotic behavior of the group is reflected in each member.\n\nRedington and Reidbord (1992) attempted to demonstrate that the human heart could display chaotic traits. They monitored the changes in between-heartbeat intervals for a single psychotherapy patient as she moved through periods of varying emotional intensity during a therapy session. Results were admittedly inconclusive. Not only were there ambiguities in the various plots the authors produced to purportedly show evidence of chaotic dynamics (spectral analysis, phase trajectory, and autocorrelation plots), but when they attempted to compute a Lyapunov exponent as more definitive confirmation of chaotic behavior, the authors found they could not reliably do so.\n\nIn their 1995 paper, Metcalf and Allen maintained that they uncovered in animal behavior a pattern of period doubling leading to chaos. The authors examined a well-known response called schedule-induced polydipsia, by which an animal deprived of food for certain lengths of time will drink unusual amounts of water when the food is at last presented. The control parameter (r) operating here was the length of the interval between feedings, once resumed. The authors were careful to test a large number of animals and to include many replications, and they designed their experiment so as to rule out the likelihood that changes in response patterns were caused by different starting places for r.\n\nTime series and first delay plots provide the best support for the claims made, showing a fairly clear march from periodicity to irregularity as the feeding times were increased. The various phase trajectory plots and spectral analyses, on the other hand, do not match up well enough with the other graphs or with the overall theory to lead inexorably to a chaotic diagnosis. For example, the phase trajectories do not show a definite progression towards greater and greater complexity (and away from periodicity); the process seems quite muddied. Also, where Metcalf and Allen saw periods of two and six in their spectral plots, there is room for alternative interpretations. All of this ambiguity necessitate some serpentine, post-hoc explanation to show that results fit a chaotic model.\n\nBy adapting a model of career counseling to include a chaotic interpretation of the relationship between employees and the job market, Aniundson and Bright found that better suggestions can be made to people struggling with career decisions. Modern organizations are increasingly seen as open complex adaptive systems with fundamental natural nonlinear structures, subject to internal and external forces that may contribute chaos. For instance, team building and group development is increasingly being researched as an inherently unpredictable system, as the uncertainty of different individuals meeting for the first time makes the trajectory of the team unknowable.\n\nSome say the chaos metaphor—used in verbal theories—grounded on mathematical models and psychological aspects of human behavior\nprovides helpful insights to describing the complexity of small work groups, that go beyond the metaphor itself.\n\nIt is possible that economic models can also be improved through an application of chaos theory, but predicting the health of an economic system and what factors influence it most is an extremely complex task. Economic and financial systems are fundamentally different from those in the classical natural sciences since the former are inherently stochastic in nature, as they result from the interactions of people, and thus pure deterministic models are unlikely to provide accurate representations of the data. The empirical literature that tests for chaos in economics and finance presents very mixed results, in part due to confusion between specific tests for chaos and more general tests for non-linear relationships.\n\nTraffic forecasting may benefit from applications of chaos theory. Better predictions of when traffic will occur would allow measures to be taken to disperse it before it would have occurred. Combining chaos theory principles with a few other methods has led to a more accurate short-term prediction model (see the plot of the BML traffic model at right).\n\nChaos theory has been applied to environmental water cycle data (aka hydrological data), such as rainfall and streamflow. These studies have yielded controversial results, because the methods for detecting a chaotic signature are often relatively subjective. Early studies tended to \"succeed\" in finding chaos, whereas subsequent studies and meta-analyses called those studies into question and provided explanations for why these datasets are not likely to have low-dimension chaotic dynamics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22882211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22882211", "title": "David Friedland", "text": "David Friedland\n\nDavid J. Friedland (born December 20, 1937) is an American lawyer and Democratic Party politician from Hudson County, New Jersey who served in the New Jersey General Assembly from 1966 to 1974 and then was elected to the Senate, serving from 1978 until his conviction on racketeering charges in 1980. He disappeared in September 1985 while awaiting sentencing by faking his death in a supposed drowning incident off Grand Bahama and was one of the U.S. government's most wanted fugitives until his capture in the Maldives in 1987 where he drew attention to himself after creating a successful chain of scuba diving shops.\n\nFriedland was born in 1937 in Jersey City, New Jersey. His father was Jacob Friedland, a labor attorney who had served in the General Assembly from 1939 until 1952. He attended Stevens Academy in Hoboken and graduated from Tufts University in 1957. He received a law degree from Rutgers School of Law—Newark in 1960 and was admitted to the bar in 1961. His brother is musician and songwriter Stephen Friedland, also known as Brute Force.\n\nIn the wake of the 1964 decision by the Supreme Court of the United States in \"Reynolds v. Sims\", establishing the one man, one vote principle that state legislative districts must be approximately equal in size, Friedland filed suit in New Jersey Supreme Court on behalf of Christopher Jackman of the Laundry Workers Union and Winfield Chasmar, Jr. of the Paper Box Workers Union, challenging a system under which each county was represented by a single member in the New Jersey Senate. The senate enacted a proposal whereby each senator's vote would be weighted based on the population of the county represented, under which Cape May County's senator would receive one vote while the senator from Essex County would receive 19.1, in direct relation to the ratio of residents between counties. In a decision issued on December 15, 1964, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that the weighted voting system as adopted was unconstitutional. The court ordered that interim measures be established for the 1965 legislative elections, in which weighted voting could be used as a temporary measure, and that the needed constitutional changes to restructure the New Jersey Legislature to be in compliance with \"one man, one vote\" requirements be in place before elections taking place in 1967.\n\nFriedland was first elected to the New Jersey General Assembly in 1966, serving there until 1974. In a judicial finding announced in February 1971 after a hearing by the New Jersey Supreme Court, Friedland was found to have violated judicial ethics for his efforts in attempting to get charges dropped against an alleged Mafia loan shark. Friedland faced potential disbarment by the court and could have faced censure or expulsion by the New Jersey Legislature. On July 27, 1971, the New Jersey Supreme Court suspended Friedland from the practice of law for a period of six months. Friedland asserted that he had done nothing wrong and would run for re-election. He insisted that as \"[t]here had been no charge of impropriety in connection with [his] legislative duties\", he expected the General Assembly would take no action against him.\n\nRelating to that same case, Friedland was one of three legislators targeted by Assistant New Jersey General William J. Brennan the 3rd on December 30, 1968, in which Brennan accused Friedland and two other legislators of being \"entirely too comfortable with members of organized crime\". Brennan's testimony was based on New Jersey State Police files which alleged that Friedland had acted as the middleman to suppress criminal complaints against a loan shark. Friedland denied Brennan's allegations and demanded his resignation, stating that he had been attempting to settle a usurious loan and that he had not talked to any of the complaining witnesses.\n\nOn January 11, 1972, Friedland was one of four Democrats who voted to give the minority Republicans control of the General Assembly, electing Thomas Kean as Assembly Speaker. He justified his actions based on claims that the Democratic leadership had been ignoring the needs of Hudson County, and was joined by Hudson County legislators Michael F. Esposito and David Wallace, along with Edward J. Higgins from nearby Elizabeth. As part of the deal with the Republicans, Friedland was appointed as chair of the bipartisan Assembly Conference Committee. Democratic leaders in the Assembly had pushed for S. Howard Woodson of Trenton, New Jersey, who would have been the Assembly's first African American Speaker, and charges of racism were leveled by fellow Democrats against Friedland. Democratic Assemblyman Kenneth A. Gewertz of Gloucester County shouted that \"Jesus Christ had his Judas, the Democrats now have their David Friedland\". Friedland had wanted the Democrats to name him as Speaker, but they declined based on his involvement in the loan sharking case and that recent political scandals in Hudson County would reflect poorly on Democrats statewide. Instead, they had named S. Howard Woodson as their candidate for speaker. The four defections denied Woodson a chance to become the first African American Speaker in the history of the General Assembly, leading to charges that the dissidents were racially motivated.\n\nFriedland, a resident of Jersey City, won an easy race in November 1977 over his Republican opponent to win a seat in the New Jersey Senate. Though Democrats lost seats, they retained control of the Senate. \n\nFriedland was one of 26 Senators to vote in favor of a 1978 bill that restored the death penalty for first degree murder, stating that the people wanted the death penalty restored and that \"the fallacy of elitism is that it believes its judgments are superior to those of the common herd\".\n\nHe served in the Senate from 1978 until his April 1980 conviction, after which he resigned to focus on his appeal. He was succeeded by fellow Democrat James A. Galdieri who took office in a November 1980 special election.\n\nFriedland was indicted in October 1979 together with his father Jacob for their role in accepting $360,000 in bribes to arrange a $4 million loan from the pension fund of Teamsters Local 701 based in North Brunswick to companies controlled by Barry S. Marlin, an attorney who had been convicted of swindling $43 million in various schemes. After his indictment, Friedland expressed confidence that he would be exonerated.\n\nOn April 11, 1980, Friedland and his father were convicted by a jury for taking kickbacks in arranging loans from the Teamsters pension fund, income tax evasion and obstruction of justice for asking a witness to lie to a grand jury. Still proclaiming his innocence and insisting that he was not obligated to resign as the acts for which he was convicted took place prior to his election, Friedland stated that he would resign immediately from his Senate seat to devote his time to an appeal of the verdict. In 1982, he reached an agreement with the United States Attorney's office in Newark, New Jersey under which he would avoid prison in exchange for his assistance in recording incriminating conversations with his former associates. While in the United States Federal Witness Protection Program he took a job with a mortgage firm owned by Joseph J. Higgins, a former member of the New Jersey General Assembly, and they made additional efforts to defraud the same pension fund.\n\nIn 1983, United States Attorney for New Jersey W. Hunt Dumont was reported by \"The New York Times\" to be pursuing a major investigation of as many as 50 individuals based on evidence that Friedland had provided. Despite his conviction, Friedland was in Federal custody and told a reporter who had spotted him at Miami International Airport that he could end up spending more than a year in assisting with Federal prosecutions.\n\nWhile Friedland was awaiting sentencing on September 2, 1985, the United States Coast Guard received a call from a boat off of Grand Bahama reporting that Friedland had disappeared while scuba diving. Friedland was said to have taken pain killers before diving with a friend at a spot 12 miles off of Grand Bahama and had failed to surface. His body was not discovered in an air-sea search and a warrant was issued for his arrest.\n\nHe went on the run, using a fake United States passport and traveling under the alias of Richard Smith Harley. During his time on the lam, he had been traced to Kenya, Paris, Venice, Hong Kong and Singapore and worked his way up to become the number one fugitive wanted by the United States Marshals Service. In December 1987, two years after his disappearance, he was arrested by officials in Malé, capital of Maldives, an island country in the Indian Ocean, where he had been working as a scuba dive master. While in Maldives, Friedland did little to avoid attention, including posing for a post card in which he was in scuba gear feeding a live shark with food held in his own mouth.\n\nHe was flown back to the United States, arriving at John F. Kennedy International Airport on December 28, 1987, under the custody of the U.S. Marshals Service and taken for arraignment in Federal District court in Brooklyn. Upon his return he vowed to fight the charges against him, but said that \"it's good to be back in the United States\". Arthur Borinsky, the United States Marshal for New Jersey, quoted Friedland as stating that \"he really got tired of running\".\n\nIn December 1987, United States Judge Dickinson Richards Debevoise ordered Friedland to serve a sentence of seven years in Federal prison, rejecting pleas for leniency from Friedland and claims that the U.S. Attorney's office had violated the terms of a 1982 agreement under which he became an informant in corruption investigations.\n\nIn a January 1988 hearing prior to his trial for conspiracy to defraud the union pension fund, then-First United States Attorney Michael Chertoff told judge John F. Gerry that, while he was in the Maldives, Friedland had contacted Libyan leader Muammar al-Gaddafi as part of an effort to arrange \"asylum in Libya or any anti-American country\". In September 1988, four days after testimony began in his racketeering trial, Friedland entered a guilty plea to a count of conspiracy under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) as part of deal with authorities under which mail fraud and wire fraud charges would be dropped. On December 2, 1988, he was sentenced on the RICO count to a 15-year sentence to be served concurrently with the 7-year term applied for his original conviction. A probation officer estimated and the court indicated at that time that Friedland's parole guideline range was between 40 and 52 months.\n\nAfter Friedland's attorney passed on an offer under which his client would pass on details of illegal drug activity based on information he obtained from other inmates, then-United States Attorney Samuel Alito responded on April 3, 1989, that his office would accept any information offered but would not make any promise to assist Friedland based on the use of any information Friedland might provide. Bypassing Alito's successor Michael Chertoff, Friedland made a deal with Drug Enforcement Administration special agent Anthony Longarzo, under which Friedland provided information that led to several arrests and the seizure of drugs in 1990. In exchange, Longarzo was supposed to recommend to the court and the United States Parole Commission that Friedland's incarceration be shortened.\n\nFriedland was released after eight years at the Federal Correctional Complex, Coleman in Coleman, Florida and was to spend several months in a halfway house run by the Salvation Army in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was released from the halfway house in July 1997, after serving a total of nine years of his 15-year sentence. He found work with an advertising firm.\n"}
{"id": "37893725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37893725", "title": "Death of Jimi Hendrix", "text": "Death of Jimi Hendrix\n\nOn September 18, 1970, and at the age of 27, the American musician Jimi Hendrix died in London. One of the most influential guitarists of the 1960s, he was described by the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as \"arguably the greatest instrumentalist in the history of rock music.\"\n\nFor some days Hendrix had been in poor health, due in part to fatigue caused by overworking, a chronic lack of sleep, and an illness assumed to be influenza-related. Insecurities about his personal relationships and disillusionment with the music industry had also contributed to his frustration. Although the details of his final hours and death are disputed, Hendrix spent much of his last day with Monika Dannemann. During the morning of September18, she found him unresponsive in her apartment at the Samarkand Hotel, 22Lansdowne Crescent, Notting Hill. She called for an ambulance at 11:18 a.m., and he was taken to St Mary Abbot's Hospital where an attempt was made to resuscitate him. He was pronounced dead at 12:45 p.m.\n\nThe post-mortem examination concluded that Hendrix aspirated his own vomit and died of asphyxia while intoxicated with barbiturates. At the inquest, the coroner, finding no evidence of suicide and lacking sufficient evidence of the circumstances, recorded an open verdict. Dannemann stated that Hendrix had taken nine of her prescribed Vesparax sleeping tablets, 18 times the recommended dosage.\n\nOn October 1, 1970, Hendrix was interred at Greenwood Cemetery in Renton, Washington. In 1992, his former girlfriend Kathy Etchingham asked British authorities to reopen the investigation into his death. A subsequent inquiry by Scotland Yard proved inconclusive, and in 1993, they decided against proceeding with the investigation.\n\nThe American musician Jimi Hendrix (born November 27, 1942) was one of the most influential guitarists of the 1960s. His Rock and Roll Hall of Fame biography says he \"was arguably the greatest instrumentalist in the history of rock music. Hendrix expanded the range and vocabulary of the electric guitar into areas no musician had ever ventured before. His boundless drive, technical ability and creative application of such effects as wah-wah and distortion forever transformed the sound of rock and roll.\"\n\nDuring the week before his death, he was dealing with two pending lawsuits, one a paternity case and the other a recording contract dispute that was due to be heard by a UK High Court the following week. He was also troubled with wanting to leave his manager, Michael Jeffery. Hendrix was fatigued and suffering from poor health, due in part to severe exhaustion caused by overworking, a chronic lack of sleep, and a persistent illness assumed to be influenza-related. Lacking trusting personal relationships, his insecurities about the future and disillusionment with the music industry contributed to his frustration.\n\nOn September 11, 1970, Hendrix gave his final interview in his suite at the Cumberland Hotel in London, where he talked with Keith Altham, a journalist for \"Record Mirror\". During the interview, Hendrix confirmed reports that Billy Cox, the bass player in his band, the Jimi Hendrix Experience, was leaving. Cox, who had been suffering from severe exhaustion and was exhibiting symptoms of paranoia, mutually agreed with Hendrix that they should suspend their plans to collaborate musically. When Altham asked Hendrix: \"Do you feel any kind of compulsion to prove yourself as King Guitar\", Hendrix replied: \"No, I don't even let that bother me. Because they say a lot of things about people that, if they let it bother them, they wouldn't even be around today ... King Guitar now? Wow, that's a bit heavy.\" Altham also suggested that Hendrix invented psychedelic music, to which he laughed and replied: \"A mad scientist approach ... I don't consider [my music] the invention of psychedelic, it's just asking a lot of questions.\"\n\nThe following day, Hendrix received a phone call from one of his girlfriends, Devon Wilson, who had become jealous after hearing rumors that he was dating another woman, Kirsten Nefer. Nefer recalled: \"I heard Jimi talk to Devon ... she was mad ... she went into fits ... Jimi said 'Devon, get off my back'\". Hendrix was scheduled to perform in Rotterdam on September 13, but the show, along with three others, was cancelled due to Cox's incapacitation. During the evening of September 13, Nefer visited Hendrix at the Cumberland. After informing him that she would have to go back to work that evening, he convinced her to phone her boss, actor George Lazenby, and ask for the night off. Lazenby became angry and shouted over the phone to Nefer: \"You're nothing but a fucking groupie\", which Hendrix overheard. The exchange upset him, and he told Nefer: \"Don't you ever go out to that guy again\". Nefer explained to him that she had spent six months working on a film with Lazenby and that she did not want to quit her job; Hendrix eventually agreed. Nefer spent the night with him and left in the morning.\n\nHendrix spent most of the early afternoon and evening of September 14 discussing his career plans with the record producer Alan Douglas. In the early morning hours of September 15, he went to London's Heathrow Airport with Douglas, who was returning to New York. Hendrix's confidante Sharon Lawrence was in London, and spoke with him that day. Lawrence commented: \"Jimi tracked me down, detailing his pressures and discussing the 'so-called friends'. He was jittery and angry.\" According to Lawrence, Hendrix told her: \"I can't sleep. I can't focus to write any songs.\" Later that afternoon, his girlfriend Monika Dannemann arrived at the Cumberland. She and Hendrix then drove to her apartment in the Samarkand Hotel, 22 Lansdowne Crescent, Notting Hill.\n\nDuring the afternoon of September 15, Hendrix was asked by his friend Eric Burdon, formerly of the Animals, if he wanted to participate in a jam session at Ronnie Scott's Jazz Club with Burdon's newly formed band, War. Hendrix accepted, but when he arrived at the club that evening, he was not allowed to play due to his apparently drug-related disorientation. Burdon commented: \"Jimi came down and was well out of it. He ... was wobbling too much to play, so I told him to come back the following night.\" Hendrix returned the next night and presented a healthier appearance. The crowd was enthusiastic and impressed by his performance despite his uncharacteristically subdued guitar playing when he sat in with War on \"Tobacco Road\" and \"Mother Earth\". This was the last time Hendrix played guitar in public.\n\nAlthough the details of Hendrix's last day and death are unclear and widely disputed, he had spent much of September 17 in London with Monika Dannemann. He awoke late that morning at Dannemann's apartment in the Samarkand Hotel. By around 2 p.m., he was sitting in a garden area outside the apartment enjoying some tea while she took photographs of him holding his favorite Fender Stratocaster guitar that he called the \"black beauty\". In the opinion of author Tony Brown, \"Jimi doesn't look particularly healthy in these photographs: his face seems a little puffy and on only a few of the pictures does he attempt to smile.\"\n\nAccording to Dannemann, by 3 p.m. they had left the apartment to use a bank. They continued on to Kensington Market, where Hendrix signed an autograph for a young boy, purchased a leather jacket, and ordered some shoes. He also briefly spoke with his ex-girlfriend Kathy Etchingham, inviting her to visit him at his hotel that evening at 8 p.m.; she declined the invitation due to prior engagements and later admitted that she had \"regretted it ever since\". Hendrix and Dannemann then went to a Chelsea antiques market, where Hendrix purchased more clothing. After another stop to buy writing paper, which he used to compose his final lyrics, Dannemann and Hendrix drove to his suite at the Cumberland Hotel, meeting Devon Wilson as she walked down King's Road. Hendrix asked Dannemann to stop the car so that he could get out and talk with Wilson, who invited Hendrix to a party that evening. Dannemann became jealous, giving Wilson a cold stare during the brief meeting. Later, Phillip Harvey invited Dannemann and Hendrix to tea; they accepted. Prior to their arrival at Harvey's, they briefly stopped by the Cumberland.\n\nWhile at the hotel, Hendrix made several telephone calls. Dannemann said he phoned his lawyer Henry Steingarten, asking him to find a way out of his contract with his manager Mike Jeffery, and producer Eddie Kramer, for whom Hendrix left a voice message. Mitch Mitchell said that he called Hendrix at the Cumberland on September 17, after having been asked to do so by tour manager Gerry Stickells, who had spoken to Hendrix just minutes earlier. Mitchell said that during the phone conversation Hendrix agreed to join him around midnight at the Speakeasy Club for a previously arranged jam session, which included Sly Stone.\n\nAfter stopping at the Cumberland, Hendrix and Dannemann accompanied Harvey to his apartment, arriving around 5:30 p.m. Hendrix and Dannemann smoked hashish and drank tea and wine with Harvey and two of his female companions while discussing their individual careers. Sometime around 10 p.m., Dannemann, apparently feeling left out of the conversation and jealous of the attention Hendrix was giving Harvey's female friends, became visibly upset and stormed out of the flat. Hendrix followed her, and an argument ensued between them during which Dannemann reportedly shouted: \"you fucking pig\". Harvey, concerned that their yelling would draw unwanted attention from the police, asked them to quiet down.\n\nHarvey, who had remained silent about the incident out of respect for his English nobleman father, Arthur Vere Harvey, gave an affidavit after his father's death in 1994. In his statement, he claims to have been mildly concerned for Hendrix's safety, worried that Dannemann might \"resort to serious physical violence\". According to Harvey, Dannemann \"verbally assaulted [Hendrix] in the most offensive possible way\". Approximately 30 minutes later, Hendrix re-entered the flat and apologized for the outburst before leaving with Dannemann at 10:40 p.m. \nDannemann said she then prepared a meal for them at her apartment around 11 p.m. and shared a bottle of wine with Hendrix. Sometime after returning to the apartment, Hendrix took a bath, then wrote a poem titled \"The Story of Life\".\n\nAt approximately 1:45 a.m. on Friday, September 18, Dannemann drove Hendrix to the party Wilson had invited him to earlier that day, which was hosted by Hendrix's acquaintance and business associate, Pete Kameron. At the party, Hendrix complained to Kameron about business problems, ate some food, and took at least one amphetamine tablet. Approximately 30 minutes later, Dannemann rang the flat's intercom asking for Hendrix. Another guest, Stella Douglas, asked her to return later. According to guest Angie Burdon, the estranged wife of Eric Burdon of the Animals, when Dannemann came back around 15 minutes later, Douglas used an assertive approach with her to the point of being impolite. Undeterred, Dannemann demanded to speak with Hendrix. Burdon recalled: \"[Hendrix] got angry because [Dannemann] wouldn't leave him alone.\" According to Burdon, other guests at the party shouted out the windows at Dannemann, asking her to leave. Hendrix eventually yielded and spoke with Dannemann before unexpectedly leaving the party around 3 a.m.\n\nDannemann, the only eyewitness to Hendrix's final hours, said that sometime after 3 a.m., she prepared two tuna fish sandwiches for them after arriving back at her basement apartment. Around 4 a.m., Hendrix, struggling with insomnia after having consumed amphetamines hours earlier, asked her for sleeping tablets. She later said she refused his request hoping he would fall asleep naturally. Dannemann said she surreptitiously took a sleeping tablet sometime around 6 a.m., with Hendrix still awake. She awoke sometime between 10 and 10:20 a.m. to find him sleeping normally in bed next to her. She said she then left to purchase cigarettes, and when she returned around 11 a.m., found him in bed breathing, although unconscious and unresponsive. She telephoned for an ambulance at 11:18 a.m. and one arrived at 11:27 a.m.\n\nWhen ambulance crew members Reg Jones and John Saua arrived at the Samarkand, the door to the flat was wide open, the gas fire was on, the curtains were drawn, and the apartment was dark. The crew called out several times, but after receiving no response, they entered and found Hendrix alone in bed. Dannemann was nowhere to be found. According to Jones: \"Well, we had to get the police, we only had [Hendrix] and an empty flat, so John ran up and radioed, and got the aspirator ... It was horrific. He was covered in vomit. There was tons of it all over the pillow—black and brown it was. His airway was completely blocked all the way down ... We felt his pulse ... showed a light in his eyes. But there was no response at all.\" At 11:30 a.m., police officers Ian Smith and Tom Keene responded to a call for police assistance from the ambulance control centre. Jones commented: \"Once the police arrived, which seemed like no time at all, we got [Hendrix] off to hospital as quick as we could.\"\n\nThe ambulance crew left the hotel at approximately 11:35 a.m. to take Hendrix to St Mary Abbot's Hospital and they arrived at 11:45 a.m. Medical registrar Dr. Martin Seifert stated: \"Jimi was rushed into the [resuscitation] room. He was put on a monitor, but it [ECG trace] was flat. I pounded his heart [CPR] a couple of times, but there was no point, he was dead\". According to Seifert, the attempt to resuscitate Hendrix lasted \"just a few minutes\". The surgical registrar, Dr. John Bannister, commented: \"He was cold and he was blue. He had all the parameters of someone who had been dead for some time. We worked on him for about half an hour without any response at all.\" Bannister pronounced Hendrix dead at 12:45 p.m., on Friday, September 18, 1970; he was 27 years old. He later stated: \"On admission he was obviously dead. He had no pulse, no heartbeat, and the attempt to resuscitate him was merely a formality.\"\n\nDuring the morning of September 18, Eric Burdon arrived at the Samarkand sometime before the ambulance crew and found that Hendrix was already dead. Burdon immediately became concerned that police would find drugs at the apartment, and as he was collecting incriminating evidence, he found the poem that Hendrix had written hours earlier, \"The Story of Life\". Burdon, who said he had previously discussed suicide and death with Hendrix, assumed the poem was a suicide note. Under this assumption, he made comments to the press regarding his belief that Hendrix had committed suicide that he has since recanted: \"I made false statements ... I simply didn't understand what the situation was. I misread the note ... I thought it was a goodbye\". Dannemann said Hendrix told her: \"I want you to keep this [poem] forever [and] I don't want you to forget anything that is written. It's a story about you and me\".\n\nSoon after Bannister pronounced Hendrix dead, a hospital spokesperson told the press: \"We don't know where, how, or why he died, but he died of an overdose.\" By that evening, many newspapers in London and New York had printed sensationalized headlines that exploited the death-from-overdose account. Hendrix's public relations manager, Les Perrin, granted an interview on Dutch radio soon after the hospital announcement. He commented: \"Well, all I know is that Mr. Hendrix's body was taken to St. Mary Abbots Hospital in Kensington, London, at 11:45 this morning, and he was certified to be dead on arrival.\" At 2 p.m., BBC Radio 1 reported: \"Jimi Hendrix, regarded by millions as one of the most talented and original performers in modern rock music, is dead.\" That evening, \"The New York Times\" described him as \"a genius black musician, a guitarist, singer and composer of brilliantly dramatic power. He spoke in gestures and big as he could imagine and create.\"\n\nOn September 19, Dannemann spoke with a journalist for the German tabloid \"Bild\". During the interview, published on September 24, Dannemann stated: \"I loved him, and Jimi loved me ... We were already engaged ... I would then have designed the sleeves for his records ... He could not sleep. So I gave him the tablets.\" On September 20, a reporter from \"The Daily Telegraph\" interviewed Dannemann's brother, Klaus-Peter Dannemann, who stated: \"[Monika] telephoned me on [September 19] and told me that [Hendrix] took nine sleeping tablets. She said that Jimi had told her that he wanted to sleep for a day and a half before he went to America. She told me that he did not intend to kill himself.\"\n\nTo determine the cause of death, the coroner, Gavin Thurston, ordered a post-mortem examination on Hendrix's body, which was performed on September 21, by Professor Robert Donald Teare, a forensic pathologist. Teare reported that Hendrix was \"well nourished and muscular\", and he identified a quarter-inch scar on Hendrix's left wrist. He said that there were \"no stigmata of [intravenous] drug addiction. Once these marks are there [in the skin], they never go away. In this case, there were no marks at all.\" Although Teare observed that the right side of Hendrix's heart was widely dilated, he found no evidence of valvular heart disease. He discovered a partially collapsed left lung and 400 ml of fluid in Hendrix's chest. Both lungs were congested, and vomit was found in the smaller bronchi. According to Teare, Hendrix's stomach \"contained a medium-sized partially digested meal in which rice could be distinguished.\" Teare concluded that Hendrix's kidneys were healthy, and his liver was congested. His \"bladder was half full of clear urine.\" He stated that Hendrix's blood alcohol content was 100 mg per 100 ml, \"enough to fail a breathalyzer test ... the equivalent of about four pints of beer.\" Teare reported that analysis of Hendrix's blood \"revealed a mixture of barbiturates consistent with those from Vesparax\", and he estimated that drug concentrations translated to ingestion of 1.8 grams of barbiturate, 20 mg of amphetamine, and 20 mg of cannabis. Teare gave the cause of death as: \"Inhalation of vomit due to barbiturate intoxication.\" He did not attempt to determine Hendrix's time of death.\n\nThurston began an inquest on September 23, and on September 28 he concluded that Hendrix had aspirated his own vomit and died of asphyxia while intoxicated with barbiturates. Citing \"insufficient evidence of [the] circumstances\", he recorded an open verdict. He commented: \"The cause of death was clearly inhalation of vomit due to barbiturate intoxication, but there is no evidence as to intention to commit suicide ... If the question of intention cannot be answered, then it is proper to find the cause of death and leave it an open verdict.\" Dannemann later stated that Hendrix had taken nine of her prescribed Vesparax sleeping tablets. Intended to be taken in half-tablet doses, nine tablets of the powerful sedative amounted to 18 times the recommended amount.\n\nAfter Hendrix's body had been embalmed by Desmond Henley, it was flown to Seattle, Washington, on September 29. After a service at Dunlop Baptist Church on October 1, he was interred at Greenwood Cemetery in Renton, Washington, the location of his mother's gravesite. Hendrix's family and friends traveled in 24 limousines. More than two hundred people attended the funeral, including several notable musicians such as the original Experience members Mitch Mitchell and Noel Redding, as well as Miles Davis, John Hammond and Johnny Winter.\n\nTony Brown, author of \"Jimi Hendrix: The Final Days\" (1997), had been in regular contact with Dannemann from 1980 until her death in 1996. He visited with her on multiple occasions and spoke with her numerous times over the phone. Soon after contacting her, Brown came to the conclusion that her account of the events of Hendrix's final days \"would change from one call to the next.\" In the days following Hendrix's death, she gave two significantly different accounts of the morning of September 18.\n\nAt approximately 4 p.m. on September 18, Dannemann told Police Sergeant John Shaw: \"We went to sleep about 7 a.m. When I woke up at eleven his face was covered in vomit, and he was breathing noisily. I sent for an ambulance, and he was taken to hospital. I also noticed that ten of my sleeping tablets were missing.\" In a statement given to P. Weyell of the coroner's office on September 24, she said: I made a sandwich and we talked until about 7 a.m. He then said that he wanted to go to sleep. He took some tablets, and we went to bed. I woke up about 11:00 a.m., and saw that Jimi's face was covered in vomit. I tried to wake him but could not. I called an ambulance and he was taken to the hospital in Kensington ... Prior to going with him to the hospital, I checked my supply of Vesparax sleeping tablets and found that nine of them were missing.\n\nIn Dannemann's initial statements, she said she awoke at 11 a.m. on September 18. During the inquest she stated that she awoke at 10:20 a.m., and left to purchase cigarettes, something she had previously failed to mention. In 1971, she wrote a manuscript in which she said she awoke at 10 a.m. In 1975, during an interview with author Caesar Glebbeek, Dannemann stated that she awoke at 9 a.m. According to Burdon, Dannemann phoned him as \"the first light of dawn was coming through the window.\" Stickells said he received a phone call regarding a problem with Hendrix \"between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m.\" Mitchell said he waited for Hendrix at the Speakeasy Club until they closed at 4 a.m., and a couple of hours after his hour and a half drive home, he received a phone call from Stickells, who told him Hendrix had died. In her statements to the police and coroner's office, Dannemann never mentioned telephoning Burdon.\n\nAlthough Dannemann claimed that Hendrix was alive when placed in the ambulance at approximately 11:30 a.m. and that she rode with him on the way to the hospital, the ambulance crew later denied she was there. Statements from the paramedics who responded to the call support that they found Hendrix alone in the flat when they arrived at 11:27 a.m., fully clothed and apparently already dead. Jones later commented: \"[When] we arrived at the flat, the door was flung wide open, nobody about, just the body on the bed.\" Saua stated: \"There was just me and the casualty and Reg the driver. Nobody else.\" Burdon stated: \"[Dannemann] didn't leave in the ambulance; she was with me\". According to Jones, Hendrix's bowels and bladder had released some of their contents prior to the ambulance crew's arrival at the Samarkand. Saua stated that the vomit was dry when they arrived, making use of their aspirator ineffective. Saua commented: \"When we moved [Hendrix], the gases were gurgling, you get that when someone has died\". According to police officer Smith: \"The ambulance men were there, but Jimi was dead ... There was really nothing they could do for him.\" Smith also disputes Dannemann's claim that she was there with Hendrix at the flat and in the ambulance: No, I remember quite clearly the doors shutting on the crew and Jimi ... there was no one about. If she had been in the flat, they would never have called us to come ... But because no one was there, he was dead, and circumstances were a little odd, suspicious, they radioed ... us in. It wasn't until later in the day that I found out that it was Jimi Hendrix. In 1992, after having conducted an extensive review of the events of September 18, 1970, the London Ambulance Service issued an official statement: \"There was no one else, except the deceased, at the flat when they arrived; nor did anyone else accompany them in the ambulance to St. Mary Abbotts Hospital.\"\n\nIn 1992, having arranged for a private investigation of Hendrix's death, Etchingham supplied the results of the effort to UK authorities and requested they reopen the coroner's inquest. After a several-month inquiry by Scotland Yard, during which every interested party to the events was interviewed, officials were confident the request would be granted. The investigation eventually proved inconclusive in 1993, when Attorney General Sir Nicholas Lyell decided that proceeding with the investigation would not serve the public, due in part to the excessive time that had passed since Hendrix's death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8587", "title": "Democide", "text": "Democide\n\nDemocide is a term proposed by R. J. Rummel since at least 1994 who defined it as \"the intentional killing of an unarmed or disarmed person by government agents acting in their authoritative capacity and pursuant to government policy or high command\". According to him, this definition covers a wide range of deaths, including forced labor and concentration camp victims; killings by \"unofficial\" private groups; extrajudicial summary killings; and mass deaths due to the governmental acts of criminal omission and neglect, such as in deliberate famines, as well as killings by \"de facto\" governments, i.e. civil war killings. This definition covers any murder of any number of persons by any government. \n\nRummel created the term as an extended concept to include forms of government murder not covered by the term genocide. According to Rummel, democide surpassed war as the leading cause of non-natural death in the 20th century.\n\nDemocide is the murder of any person or people by their government, including genocide, politicide and mass murder. Democide is not necessarily the elimination of entire cultural groups but rather groups within the country that the government feels need to be eradicated for political reasons and due to claimed future threats.\n\nAccording to Rummel, genocide has three different meanings.\n\n\nThe objectives of democide include the disintegration of the political and social institutions of culture, language, national feelings, religion, and the economic existence of national groups; the destruction of the personal security, liberty, health, dignity; and even the lives of the individuals belonging to such groups.\n\nSome examples of democide cited by Rummel include the Great Purges carried out by Joseph Stalin in the Soviet Union, the deaths from the colonial policy in the Congo Free State, and Mao Zedong's Great Leap Forward, which resulted in a famine that killed millions of people. According to Rummel, these were not cases of genocide because those who were killed were not selected on the basis of their race, but were killed in large numbers as a result of government policies. Famine is classified by Rummel as democide if it fits the definition above.\n\nFor instance, Rummel re-classified Mao Zedong's Great Leap Forward as democide in 2005. He originally believed that Mao's policies were largely responsible for the famine, but that Mao's advisers had misled him. Therefore, he believed it was not an intentional famine and thus not a democide. However, reports from Jung Chang and Jon Halliday's \"\" allege that Mao knew about the famine from the beginning but did not care, and eventually Mao had to be stopped by a meeting of 7,000 top Communist Party members. Based on this new evidence, Rummel now believes the famine was intentional and considers it a democide. Taking this into account, the total for Chinese Communist Party democide is 80.86 million, more than the Soviet Union (62 million), Nazi Germany (21 million), or any other regime in the 20th century.\n\nIn his estimates, Rummel relies mostly on historical accounts, an approach that rarely provides accurate estimates. His estimates typically include a wide range and cannot be considered determinative..\n\nThus, Rummel calculates nearly 43 million deaths due to democide inside and outside the Soviet Union during Stalin's regime. This is much higher than an often quoted figure of 20 million, or a more recent figure of 9 million. Rummel has responded that the 20 million estimate is based on a figure from Robert Conquest's 1968 book \"The Great Terror\", and that Conquest's qualifier \"almost certainly too low\" is usually forgotten. Conquest's calculations excluded camp deaths before 1936 and after 1950, executions from 1939–1953, the vast deportation of the people of captive nations into the camps and their deaths 1939–1953, the massive deportation within the Soviet Union of minorities 1941–1944 and their deaths, and those the Soviet Red Army and secret police executed throughout Eastern Europe after their conquest during 1944–1945. Moreover, the Holodomor that killed 5 million in 1932–1934 is also not included.\n\nHis research shows that the death toll from democide is far greater than the death toll from war. After studying over 8,000 reports of government-caused deaths, Rummel estimates that there have been 262 million victims of democide in the last century. According to his figures, six times as many people have died from the actions of people working for governments than have died in battle.\n\nOne of his main findings is that liberal democracies have much less democide than authoritarian regimes. He argues that there is a relation between political power and democide. Political mass murder grows increasingly common as political power becomes unconstrained. At the other end of the scale, where power is diffuse, checked, and balanced, political violence is a rarity. According to Rummel, \"The more power a regime has, the more likely people will be killed. This is a major reason for promoting freedom.\" Rummel concludes that \"concentrated political power is the most dangerous thing on earth.\"\n\nSeveral other researchers have found similar results. \"Numerous researchers point out that democratic norms and political structures constrain elite decisions about the use of repression against their citizens whereas autocratic elites are not so constrained. Once in place, democratic institutions—even partial ones—reduce the likelihood of armed conflict and all but eliminate the risk that it will lead to geno/politicide.\"\n\nResearchers often give widely different estimates of mass murder. They use different definitions, methodology, and sources. For example, some include battle deaths in their calculations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38887220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38887220", "title": "Electromyoneurography", "text": "Electromyoneurography\n\nElectromyoneurography (EMNG) is the combined use of electromyography and electroneurography This technique allows for the measurement of a peripheral nerve’s conduction velocity upon stimulation (electroneurography) alongside electrical recording of muscular activity (electromyography). Their combined use proves to be clinically relevant by allowing for both the source and location of a particular neuromuscular disease to be known, and for more accurate diagnoses.\n\nElectromyoneurography is a technique that uses surface electrical probes to obtain electrophysiological readings from nerve and muscle cells. The nerve activity is generally recorded using surface electrodes, stimulating the nerve at one site and recording from another with a minimum distance between the two. The time difference of the potential is a measure of the time taken for the potential to travel the distance across the two sites and is a measure of the conduction velocity along the nerve. The amplitude of the potential, measured baseline to peak, or peak to peak, is a measure of the number of fibers conducting the response. Abnormality in data obtained from nerve measurements, such as absent or low amplitude, indicates potential nerve damage.\n\nThis technique is used in many medical fields today. One example of its use is to detect neuropathy due to diseases like diabetes mellitus. It can also be used to detect muscle weakness or paralysis due to sepsis or multi-organ failure in comatose patients. This method remains a largely used medical technique due to its efficiency and relative simplicity. It is especially attractive due to the lack of special precautions or preparation involved with this procedure. There is minimal pain and no significant risks except those associated with needle use.\n\nThe technique of electromyoneurography was first practiced in the late 1970s by the American Academy of General Practice. The use of this technique enhances diagnostic capability by defining and localizing the target site. In 1978, Milton B. Spiegel, research physician with The Rehabilitation Institute of South Florida, wrote one of the first major academic papers surrounding the uses and benefits of electromyoneurography. It was in this paper that Dr. Spiegel suggested that pre-examination of the patients' range of motion and reflexes would eliminate time and exploration of nerve entrapments during the electromyoneurographic procedure.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the practice of utilizing electromyoneurography became more widely accepted in the medical community, specifically aiding in the diagnoses of neuropathy, radiculopathy, and axonopathy. As to more recent use, electromyoneurography has been employed throughout the 21st century, aiding in the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome, abnormal glucose levels, and many other myopathies. This procedure now analyzes the nerve conduction and muscle potentials through the use of H-Reflex and F-Wave studies. Combined with a pre-examination, electromyoneurography is utilized to detect neuromuscular abnormalities.\n\n Electromyoneurography has a variety of modern applications. The high level of sensitivity that electromyoneurography employs makes it ideal for detecting peripheral nerve damage as well as a variety of myopathies in their early stages. This electrophysiological data obtaining technique has been able to heighten diagnostic capabilities when looking at peripheral neuropathy disorders like radiculopathy, and axonopathy in addition to myopathies such as muscular dystrophy, myotonia, and myasthenia gravis. Electromyoneurography was the main technique used in a study to detect diabetic polyneuropathy, a serious condition that is progressive in nature.\n\nElectromyoneurography can also be used to measure patient recovery from surgical procedures, such as nerve repair. A study conducted on patients with proximal radial nerve injuries used the procedure to indicate the degree of both pre- and postoperative nerve damage. In this particular study, electromyoneurography was the preferred method of measuring recovery, chosen over magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) scans. When looking at the sample data table, one can see that postoperative patients generally see an increase in mean radial nerve amplitude, a decrease in mean radial nerve latency and increases in nerve motor conduction velocity. These results are all general trends that would be expected when operating on damaged nerves in effort to increase their performance.\n\nElectromyoneurography's unique combination of recording in muscle and nerve simultaneously typically results in a higher level of diagnostic ability in the field of medicine. This heightened utility often results in a lesser demand for more invase techniques for acquiring electrophysiological data, such as myelography, a procedure where complications are not uncommon and the amount of attention required for post-operative care is more involved.\n\nElectromyoneurography has been found to be particularly useful in diagnosing the following neuromuscular conditions, though it is not an exhaustive list:\n\nIn an electromyoneurography procedure, recording of the muscle is done by insertion of a needle. The recordings are taken when the muscle is at rest and when the muscle is contracting; the muscle will contract based on the directions of the one performing the test (instructing the patient to move certain body parts in certain directions forming muscle contractions). Various regions of muscle on the body are examined in an electromyoneurography test and the procedure lasts anywhere between 30–60 minutes (2–5 minutes per muscle). In addition to examining the muscles, the conduction velocity of nerve signals are measured. The nerve's ability to transmit signals is tested by inserting recording electrodes to capture the data, and signal electrodes to initiate signals down a nerve by applying a small shock. Self-generated potentials also occur naturally for recording, in addition to the artificial \"shock\". Evaluating a nerve's conduction velocity, together with testing potentials, allows for a beneficial diagnosis that can detect pain and sensory problems at the neuromuscular level.\n\nThe needle is normally attached to a recording device known as an electromyography machine. The results show the appearance of action potential or graded potential spikes. While interpretation of the results requires background knowledge, irregular data can be used to diagnose many diseases. If the activity of the nerves at rest is abnormal, this may indicate nerve lesion, radiculopathy, or lower motor nerve degeneration. The amplitude or duration of the potential spike may also be used to gather information. A decreased amplitude or duration may indicate nerve damage due to a muscle diseases, whereas an increase in these demonstrates reinervation, or repair by new nerve connections to the muscles, has occurred.\n"}
{"id": "1778617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1778617", "title": "Fort Denison", "text": "Fort Denison\n\nFort Denison, part of the Sydney Harbour National Park, is a protected national park that is an heritage-listed former penal site and defensive facility occupying a small island located north-east of the Royal Botanic Gardens and approximately east of the Opera House in Sydney Harbour, New South Wales, Australia. The island was formerly known in its indigenous name of Mat-te-wan-ye, and as Pinchgut Island.\n\nThe site contains time gun, navigational aids and tide gauge facilities. Correctional and military facilities were designed by George Barney and built from 1840 to 1862 by William Randle. The property is owned by the NSW Office of Environment and Heritage, an agency of the Government of New South Wales. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999. In 1978 the former fortress was listed on the (now defunct) Register of the National Estate, and is currently used as a national park, nature reserve, tourist facility, and as a function space.\n\nPrior to European settlement, the island had the Eora name Mat-te-wan-ye (sometimes \"Mallee’wonya\").\n\nAfter the First Fleet arrived in 1788, Governor Phillip and his advocate-general used the name \"Rock Island\". In 1788, a convict named Thomas Hill was sentenced to a week on bread and water in irons there, after a time the island came to be known as \"Pinchgut\". Once a high or higher sandstone islet, the rock was levelled by convicts under the command of Captain George Barney, the civil engineer for the colony, who quarried it for sandstone to construct nearby Circular Quay.\n\nIn late 1796 the Governor had installed a gibbet on Pinchgut. A convict to be hanged and then gibbeted there was Francis Morgan. In 1793, the British transported him to New South Wales for life as punishment for a murder. The authorities in NSW executed Morgan for bashing Simon Raven to death in Sydney on 18 October 1796. On 30 November 1796, Morgan was hanged for the brutal murder of Simon Raven. Following his execution his body was hung in chains (gibbeting) on Pinchgut. His skeleton was still hanging there four years after his execution. He said to the hangman that the only thing worth mentioning was the superb view of the harbour from his high elevation, and that he was sure there were no waters the world over to compare with it for beauty.\n\nIn 1839, two American warships entered the harbour at night and circled Pinchgut Island. Concern with the threat of foreign attack caused the government to review the harbour's inner defences. Barney, who had earlier reported that Sydney’s defences were inadequate, recommended that the government establish a fort on Pinchgut Island to help protect Sydney Harbour from attack by foreign vessels. Fortification of the island began in 1841 but was not completed. Construction resumed in 1855 because of fear of a Russian naval attack during the Crimean War, and was completed on 14 November 1857. The newly built fort then took its current name from Sir William Thomas Denison, the Governor of New South Wales from 1855 to 1861.\n\nThe fortress features a distinctive Martello tower, the only one ever built in Australia and the last one ever constructed in the British Empire. It was constructed using of sandstone from nearby Kurraba Point, Neutral Bay. The tower's walls are between thick at the base and thick at the top. However, developments in artillery rendered the fort largely obsolete by the time it was completed. The tower itself had quarters for a garrison of 24 soldiers and one officer. Fort Denison's armament included three muzzle loaders in the tower, two guns, one on a 360-degree traverse on the top of the tower and one in a bastion at the other end of the island, and twelve cannons in a battery between the base of the tower and the flanking bastion.\n\nEventually all the guns were removed, except for the three muzzle-loading cannons in the gun room in the tower, which were installed before construction was complete. The width of passages within the tower are too narrow to permit these to be removed. However, from the beginning the three cannons were of limited utility.The embrasures for the cannons were too small to use the guns effectively and by the time a cannon was loaded the ship it was to fire on would have sailed past. Lastly, the guns' recoil was too powerful for the small room.\n\nIn 1906, a saluting gun (pictured below) was transferred from Dawes Point to Fort Denison.\n\nIn 1913 a lighthouse beacon built in Birmingham, England, and shipped to Sydney, replaced the gun on the roof of the tower. The light is called Fort Denison Light, which is still in use. \n\nIn May 1942, three Japanese two-man midget-submarines attacked Sydney Harbour. When the US Navy cruiser fired on the Japanese, some of its shells hit Fort Denison, causing the tower minor damage which remains visible.\n\nIn October 1900, as the Boer war raged in Africa, the White Star Line ship sailed into Sydney Harbour and dropped anchor in Neutral Bay. One night, the fourth officer, Charles Lightoller and two shipmates rowed to Fort Denison and climbed the tower with a plan to fool locals into believing a Boer raiding party was attacking Sydney. They hoisted a makeshift Boer flag on the lightning conductor and fired a harmless wad of cotton waste from one of the 8-inch cannons. The blast shattered a few of the fort's windows but caused no other damage. Lightoller was never apprehended but confessed to his company's superiors and related the whole story in an autobiography. He was transferred to the Atlantic route and went on to be the second officer of the and the most senior officer to survive the 1912 sinking of the ship. He was a key witness at both the British and American inquiries into the disaster.\n\nSince 1992, the National Parks and Wildlife Service, which manages the site, has spent around A$2m conserving and upgrading the facilities. EnergyAustralia also made a significant contribution for the work via the Foundation for National Parks and Wildlife.\n\nFollowing publication of a conservation plan, further renovation commenced in 1999 and was completed in 2001. The conservation and adaptive re-use of the island was awarded the NSW Royal Australian Institute of Architects (RAIA) Conservation Award; a Commendation in the National RAIA Awards; and a National Trust Heritage Award in 2001.\n\nIncreased harbour traffic has already destroyed the slipway. Furthermore, the porous sandstone drinks in the salt right down to the fort's foundations. In 2007 the government announced a $1.5 million rescue package. Fort Dennison is now home to more than 100 birds.\nFort Denison is now a museum, tourist attraction, restaurant, and popular location for wedding receptions and corporate events. The tourist facility contains an exhibition of the island's history from Aboriginal times. Access to Fort Denison is via a ferry that departs Wharf 6 at Circular Quay every 45 minutes, 7 days a week. The price of the ferry ticket includes the landing fee. Guided tours of the island, including the Martello tower are at an additional cost. NSW National Parks & Wildlife Services conducts the tours.\n\nIn 2004 the NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service restored the lighthouse beacon, which is still in use and supports operation of a Harbour Navigational Facility, with tide gauge, navigation channel markers, foghorn and beacon, established in the mid-19th century. The Bureau of Meteorology operates a weather facility from the island and publishes observations at half-hourly intervals on its website.\n\nThe custom of firing a gun daily at 1pm began in 1906 to enable sailors to set their ship's chronometers correctly. The daily gun continued until World War II when the authorities stopped it for fear of alarming residents. The practice recommenced in 1986.\n\nThe Fort Denison Restaurant was opened on the island in 2006, although the restaurant lease expired in June 2017 and is yet to be renewed. Throughout the years since it has been voted in the top five waterfront restaurants worldwide by the Sydney Morning Herald, and was open for lunch 7 days a week year round, dinners on a Sunday, and for special events and occasions which can be found on their website. Bookings for major occasions, such as New Year's Eve, were coveted.\n\nFort Denison was the location of the 1959 film \"The Siege of Pinchgut\", released in the United States as \"Four Desperate Men\". Directed by Harry Watt, written by Jon Cleary and starring Aldo Ray, the production was the final Australian film of the British-based Ealing Studios. The island also featured as the base of operations for Neville Savage in the sixth episode of the Australian children's television show \"Mission Top Secret\". Fort Denison was often seen in the television series \"Water Rats\". One episode in season two of the show, \"End of the Line\", featured a party on the island.\n\nFort Denison on Sydney Harbour is within the visual catchment of the Sydney Opera House, the Harbour Bridge, the Royal Botanic Garden and the Sydney Harbour Naval Precinct. Fort Denison is the only Sydney Harbour island which is no longer described as an island. Even Garden Island, now visually part of the mainland (and anything but a garden) is still known as an island. The island known as Mat-te-wan-ye (small rocky island) to Aborigines and Rock Island to the first settlers, is now popularly known as Fort Denison and viewed as a built artefact rather than an island.\n\nFrom a distance no evidence of its original island character is apparent, except perhaps scattered rocks at low tide. However, on close inspection the--sandstone bedrock visible below the south west battery reveals part of the rock of the island, particularly when combined with the pictorial evidence provided by drawings such as that by Barrington in 1802.\n\nThe visual impact of the fort is a combination of the strong vertical mass of the Martello tower and the equally strong horizontal lines of the low barrack and battery buildings. The two distinct building forms reflects the history of the staged Fort construction; which progressed from the original horizontal form of the battery, and later construction of the barracks and Martello tower. The tower, which only lost its dominant role in marking the water entrance to the city with the construction of the Sydney Opera House, was built with an open gun platform (terreplein) which surmounted two internal levels. A section through the tower, shows the navigational light which replaced the upper cannon in 1913. The lower internal level contained rooms for the storage of gunpowder and provisions and the middle level still houses the three original cannons. Internal tower circulation is via a spiralling staircase that connects the three tower levels. External access to the tower is through a single external door from the upper terrace level battery and bastion.\n\nThree major elements comprise the strong horizontal section of the fort; the battery and bastion, the barracks and terrace.\n\nThe outward facing defensive side of the fort known as the gun battery and bastion confronted incoming ships. It is constructed out of the island's sandstone bedrock. The battery consists of an open working area which services a series of nine gun placements and corresponding slanted firing openings which are equally positioned along the raised parapet wall of the battery. An underground water tank has been cut into the bedrock of the battery. The bastion located at the southern end of the battery was constructed to house a single cannon set behind a raised stone parapet. The cannon was located on a raised circular revolving mount to maximise the cannon's aim of fire.\n\nA wet ditch and breakwater formed by sandstone blocks separates the fort from the open harbour channel. Beyond this is a breakwater which surrounds the whole island which moderates the wave action against the stone fabric of the fort.\n\nThe main single storey building is the barrack. its eight chimneys indicate its original accommodation purpose. The barracks are built into cut back bedrock and contain a row of single rooms used for military bunk-style accommodation for the lower ranks as well as accommodation for two separate officers' quarters. A central breezeway and vault covered staircase allows access from the barracks and lower terraces to the upper terrace battery, bastion and Martello tower. The two end rooms adjoining the barracks, known as the Tide Gauge Room to the north and the West Room to the south, were constructed soon after the completion of the barracks. The loopholes, or angled openings were designed to enable the defensive fire whilst defending against enemy attack.\n\nThe lower north west facing terrace is constructed on the same level as the barracks. It was probably built on rubble fill which is contained by a low stone wall.\n\nThe terrace is open and not defensive in nature, as it faces away from the open sea and potential attack. It currently has a bitumen surface and several small planted garden beds. Garden beds were constructed on this terrace during the 20th century as part of the domestication of the fort by the Sydney Harbour Trust and later Maritime Services Board caretakers. Two sewerage treatment units which service the toilets are concealed in the garden beds at either end of the barracks.\n\nA Canary Island date palm (\"Phoenix canariensis\") planted in one raised garden bed on the terrace's western side and a fruiting fig tree (\"Ficus carica\" cv.) at the south-west base of the Martello Tower are the only trees on Fort Denison.\n\nAn external cannon is on the Eastern Terrace. A tall flag pole with side spars runs three permanently flown flags on this terrace.\n\nAs at 26 May 2014, the physical condition is excellent. Archaeological potential is high. Published material on such towers in the English speaking world suggests that this may well be the most intact tower.\n\nThe following modifications have been made to Fort Denison:\n\nAs at 29 September 2008, Fort Denison was of national and international significance as an exceptionally fine and intact example of a nineteenth century defence fortification that is unique within Australia. Located in Sydney Harbour, neighbouring the Sydney Opera House and the Sydney Harbour Bridge, Fort Denison is a landmark that represents colonial Australian settlement. Fort Denison is associated with several phases of Australian history. As an island it was used as a place by local Aboriginal people for food and pleasure, and was used by European settlers as a place for incarceration and exploitation of convict labour. The island was then modified for defensive use firstly as a Battery and then as a Fort. As a Fort it demonstrates the administration and politics of the British Empire and the need for defensive structures in the colonies. For most of the 20th century the island and Fort took on a maritime role. It continues to be reference point for tide measurement and changing navigation techniques. Fort Denison is the only island site entirely covered with a fortification within Sydney Harbour and retains the integrity of its completed 1862 form. In an international context, the combination of a Martello tower and associated barracks is unusual and rare. The Fort built entirely of local sandstone, demonstrates the evolution from an island to convict shaped rock battery, to a completed Fort. The Martello tower on Fort Denison is unique as a European styled coastal fort constructed in Australia. It is of international significance as one of only two towers in the southern hemisphere that survive intact. It forms part of a worldwide group of similarly styled and dated European coastal fort towers built during this period. The tower is also of international significance for the integrity of its original casemated ordnance and sidearms. Fort Denison is recognised by the people of Sydney as an historic fortification that remains an enduring feature in a changing harbour context. The very nature of its massive sandstone construction, combined with its isolation and comparative inaccessibility, adds to its mystique and its landmark status with Sydney Harbour. (Fort Denison Conservation Plan 1999 NPWS)\n\nFort Denison was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nFort Denison was built in stages between 1840 and 1862 and is evidence of the design and changes to harbour defence works and tactics of the colony from 1836 to 1866. It reflects the impact of events and changes to personnel associated with the place including George Barney (the designer), George Gipps, James Gordon and William Denison.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nFort Denison is mounted on a rock entirely surrounded by the waters of one of the finest harbours in the world. Its tower, battery and terrace afford a superb urban and marine panorama. It has aesthetic qualities such as homogeneity of materials, quality of interior and partially enclosed spaces and relationship with surrounding.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nIt serves as a picturesque reminder of the Port's penal and military history.\n\nThe place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nIt is evidence of the use of techniques of masonry fort construction.\n\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nIt is the only one of its type in Australia. Martello towers are normally freestanding and the combination of tower and battery is rare.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "507293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=507293", "title": "Frank Murphy", "text": "Frank Murphy\n\nWilliam Francis Murphy (April 13, 1890July 19, 1949) was a Democratic politician and jurist from Michigan. He was named to the Supreme Court of the United States in 1940 after a political career that included stints as Governor of Michigan and Mayor of Detroit. He also served as the last Governor General of the Philippine Islands and the first High Commissioner of the Philippines.\n\nBorn in Huron County, Michigan, Murphy graduated from the University of Michigan Law School in 1914. After serving in the United States Army during World War I, Murphy served as a federal attorney and trial judge. He served as Mayor of Detroit from 1930 to 1933 before accepting appointment as Governor-General of the Philippine Islands. He defeated incumbent Republican Governor Frank Fitzgerald in Michigan's 1936 gubernatorial election and served a single term as Governor of Michigan. Murphy lost re-election to Fitzgerald in 1938 and accepted appointment as the United States Attorney General the following year.\n\nIn 1940, President Franklin D. Roosevelt appointed Murphy to the Supreme Court to fill a vacancy caused by the death of Pierce Butler. Murphy served on the Court from 1940 until his death in 1949, and was succeeded by Tom C. Clark. Murphy wrote the Court's majority opinion in \"SEC v. W. J. Howey Co.\", and wrote a dissenting opinion in \"Korematsu v. United States\".\n\nMurphy was born in Harbor Beach, Michigan, then known as Sand Beach, in 1890. His Irish parents, John T. Murphy and Mary Brennan, raised him as a devout Catholic. He followed in his father's footsteps by becoming a lawyer. He attended the University of Michigan Law School, and graduated with a BA in 1912 and LLB in 1914. He was a member of the Sigma Chi Fraternity and the senior society Michigamua. Murphy was stricken with diphtheria in the winter of 1911 but was allowed to begin his course in the Law Department from which he received his LL.B. degree in 1914. He performed graduate work at Lincoln's Inn in London and Trinity College, Dublin, which was said to be formative for his judicial philosophy. He developed a need to decide cases based on his more holistic notions of justice, eschewing technical legal arguments. As one commentator quipped of his later Supreme Court service, he \"tempered justice with Murphy.\"\n\nHe taught law at the University of Detroit for five years.\n\nHe served in the U.S. Army during World War I, achieving the rank of captain with the occupation army in Germany before leaving the service in 1919.\n\nMurphy was appointed, and took the oath of office as, first Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan on August 9, 1919. He was one of three assistant attorneys in the office.\n\nWhen Murphy began his career as a federal attorney the workload of the attorney's office was increasing at a rapid rate, mainly because of the number of prosecutions resulting from the enforcement of national prohibition. The government's excellent record in winning convictions in the Eastern District was partially due to Murphy's record of winning all but one of the cases he prosecuted. He practiced law privately to a limited extent while still a federal attorney, and resigned his position as a United States attorney on March 1, 1922. He had several offers to join private practices, but decided to go it alone and formed a partnership with Edward G. Kemp in Detroit.\n\nMurphy ran unsuccessfully as a Democrat for the United States Congress in 1920, when national and state Republicans swept Michigan, but used his legal reputation and growing political connections to win a seat on the Recorder's Court, Detroit's criminal court. In 1923, he was elected judge of the Recorder's Court on a non-partisan ticket by one of the largest majorities ever cast for a judge in Detroit, took office on January 1, 1924, and served seven years during the Prohibition era.\n\nWhile on Recorder's Court, he established a reputation as a trial judge. He was a presiding judge in the famous murder trials of Dr. Ossian Sweet and his brother, Henry Sweet, in 1925 and 1926. Clarence Darrow, then one of the most prominent trial lawyers in the country, was lead counsel for the defense. After an initial mistrial of all of the black defendants, Henry Sweet—who admitted that he fired the weapon which killed a member of the mob surrounding Dr. Sweet's home and was retried separately—was acquitted by an all-white jury on grounds of the right of self-defense. The prosecution then elected to not prosecute any of the remaining defendants. Murphy's rulings were material to the outcome of the case.\n\nIn 1930, Murphy ran as a Democrat and was elected Mayor of Detroit. He served from 1930 to 1933, during the first years of the Great Depression. He presided over an epidemic of urban unemployment, a crisis in which 100,000 were unemployed in the summer of 1931. He named an unemployment committee of private citizens from businesses, churches, and labor and social service organizations to identify all residents who were unemployed and not receiving welfare benefits. The Mayor's Unemployment Committee raised funds for its relief effort and worked to distribute food and clothing to the needy, and a Legal Aid Subcommittee volunteered to assist with the legal problems of needy clients. In 1933, Murphy convened in Detroit and organized the first convention of the United States Conference of Mayors. They met and conferred with President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Murphy was elected its first president.\n\nMurphy was an early and enthusiastic supporter of Roosevelt and the New Deal, helping Roosevelt to become the first Democratic presidential candidate to win the state of Michigan since Franklin Pierce in 1852 before the Republican Party was founded.\n\nMelvin G. Holli rated Murphy an exemplary mayor and a highly effective leader.\n\nBy 1933, after Murphy's second mayoral term, the reward of a big government job was waiting. Roosevelt appointed Murphy as Governor-General of the Philippine Islands.\n\nHe was sympathetic to the plight of ordinary Filipinos, especially for the land-hungry and oppressed tenant farmers, and emphasized the need for social justice.\n\nWhen his position as Governor-General was abolished in 1935, he stayed on as United States High Commissioner until 1936. That year, he was a delegate from the Philippine Islands to the Democratic National Convention.\n\nHigh Commissioner to the Philippines was the title of the personal representative of the President of the United States to the Commonwealth of the Philippines during the period 1935–46. The office was created by the Tydings–McDuffie Act of 1934, which provided for a period of transition from direct American rule to the complete independence of the islands on July 4, 1946.\n\nMurphy was elected the 35th Governor of Michigan on November 3, 1936, defeating Republican incumbent Frank Fitzgerald, and served one two-year term. During his two years in office, an unemployment compensation system was instituted and mental health programs were improved.\n\nThe United Automobile Workers engaged in an historic sit-down strike at General Motors' Flint plant. The Flint Sit-Down Strike was a turning point in national collective bargaining and labor policy. After 27 people were injured in a battle between the workers and the police, including 13 strikers with gunshot wounds, Murphy sent the National Guard to protect the workers, didn't follow a court order requesting him to expel the strikers, and refused to order the Guard's troops to suppress the strike.\n\nHe successfully mediated an agreement and end to the confrontation, and G.M. recognized the U.A.W. as bargaining agent under the newly adopted National Labor Relations Act. This recognition had a significant effect on the growth of organized labor unions. In the next year, the UAW saw its membership grow from 30,000 to 500,000 members. As later noted by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), this strike was \"the strike heard round the world.\"\n\nIn 1938 Murphy was defeated by his predecessor, Fitzgerald, who became the only governor of Michigan to precede, and then succeed, the same person.\n\nIn 1939, Roosevelt appointed Murphy the 56th Attorney General of the United States. He established a Civil Liberties Unit in the Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice, designed to centralize enforcement responsibility for the Bill of Rights and civil rights statutes.\n\nAfter a year as Attorney General, on January 4, 1940, Murphy was nominated by Roosevelt as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, filling the seat vacated by the death of Pierce Butler. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on January 16, and sworn in on January 18. The timing of the appointment put Murphy on the cusp of the Charles Evans Hughes and the Harlan Fiske Stone courts. On the death of Chief Justice Stone, Murphy served in the court led by Frederick Moore Vinson, who was confirmed in 1946.\n\nMurphy took an expansive view of individual liberties, and the limitations on government he found in the Bill of Rights.\n\nHe authored 199 opinions: 131 for the majority, 68 in dissent. One of the important opinions authored by Justice Murphy was \"Securities and Exchange Commission v. W. J. Howey Co.\" (1946), in which the Court defined the term \"investment contract\" under the Securities Act of 1933, thus giving content to the most important concept of what makes something a security in American law.\n\nOpinions differ about him and his jurisprudential philosophy. He has been acclaimed as a legal scholar and a champion of the common man, but Justice Felix Frankfurter disparagingly nicknamed Murphy \"the Saint\", criticizing his decisions as being rooted more in passion than reason. It has been said he was \"neither legal scholar nor craftsman\", and he was criticized \"for relying on heart over head, results over legal reasoning, clerks over hard work, and emotional solos over team play.\"\n\nMurphy's support of African Americans, aliens, criminals, dissenters, Jehovah's Witnesses, Native Americans, women, workers and other \"outsiders\" evoked a pun: \"tempering justice with Murphy.\" As he wrote in \"Falbo v. United States\" (1944), \"The law knows no finer hour than when it cuts through formal concepts and transitory emotions to protect unpopular citizens against discrimination and persecution.\" (p. 561)\n\nAccording to Frankfurter, Murphy was part of the more liberal \"axis\" of justices on the Court along with Justices Rutledge, Douglas and Black; the group would for years oppose Frankfurter's \"judicially restrained\" conservative ideology. Douglas, Murphy and then Rutledge were the first justices to agree with Hugo Black's notion that the Fourteenth Amendment incorporated the Bill of Rights' protection in it; this view would later become law.\n\nMurphy is perhaps best known for his vehement dissent from the court's ruling in \"Korematsu v. United States\" (1944), which upheld the constitutionality of the government's internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II. He sharply criticized the majority ruling as \"legalization of racism.\"\n\nThis was the first time the word \"racism\" found its way into a Supreme Court opinion (Murphy had previously used the term twice in a concurring opinion in \"Steele v. Louisville & Nashville Railway Co.\" (1944) issued that same day). He would use that word again in five separate opinions before the word \"racism\" disappeared from Murphy's and the High Court's other opinions for almost two decades, not reappearing until the landmark decision of \"Loving v. Virginia\" (1967), which struck down as unconstitutional the Virginia anti-miscegenation statute. (See also Jim Crow laws.)\nAlthough Murphy was serving on the Supreme Court during World War II, he still longed to be part of the war effort; and so during Court recesses he served at Fort Benning, Georgia as an infantry officer.\n\nOn January 30, 1944, almost exactly one year before Soviet liberation of the Auschwitz death camp on January 27, 1945, Justice Murphy unveiled the formation of the National Committee Against Nazi Persecution and Extermination of the Jews. Serving as committee chair, he declared that it was created to combat Nazi propaganda \"breeding the germs of hatred against Jews.\" This announcement was made on the 11th anniversary of Adolf Hitler's appointment as Chancellor of Germany. The eleven committee members included U.S. Vice President Henry Wallace, 1940 Republican presidential candidate Wendell Willkie and Henry St. George Tucker, Presiding Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church.\n\nThomas was among 12 nominated at the 1944 Democratic National Convention to serve as Roosevelt's running mate in the presidential election that year. He acted as chairman of the National Committee against Nazi Persecution and Extermination of the Jews and of the Philippine War Relief Committee. The first committee was established in early 1944 to promote rescue of European Jews, and to combat antisemitism in the United States.\n\nMurphy died aged 59 of coronary thrombosis during his sleep at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. Over 10,000 people attended his funeral in Detroit. He was engaged to be married in August to Joan Cuddihy.\n\nHis remains are interred at Our Lady of Lake Huron Cemetery in Harbor Beach, Michigan.\nThe Frank Murphy Hall of Justice was home to Detroit's Recorder's Court and now houses part of Michigan's Third Judicial Circuit Court. There is a plaque in his honor on the first floor, which is recognized as a Michigan Legal Milestone.\n\nOutside the Hall of Justice is Carl Milles's statue \"The Hand of God\". This rendition was cast in honor of Murphy and financed by the United Automobile Workers. It features a nude figure emerging from the left hand of God. Although commissioned in 1949 and completed by 1953, the work, partly because of the male nudity involved, was kept in storage for a decade and a half. The work was chosen in tribute to Murphy by Walter P. Reuther and Ira W. Jayne. It was placed on a pedestal in 1970 with the help of sculptor Marshall Fredericks, who was a Milles student. Murphy is also honored with a museum in his home town, Harbor Beach, Michigan. The facility is housed in former family property and contains numerous personal artifacts from his life. The Murphy Museum is open during the summer months.\n\nMurphy's personal and official files are archived at the Bentley Historical Library of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor and are open for research. This also includes an oral history project about Murphy. His correspondence and other official documents are deposited in libraries around the country.\n\nIn memory of Murphy, one of three University of Michigan Law School alumni to become a U.S. Supreme Court justice, Washington, D.C.-based attorney John H. Pickering, who was a law clerk for Murphy, donated a large sum of money to the law school as a remembrance, establishing the Frank Murphy Seminar Room.\n\nMurphy was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Law degree by the University of Michigan in 1939.\n\nThe University of Detroit has a Frank Murphy Honor Society.\n\n\"The Sweet Trials: Malice Aforethought\" is a play written by Arthur Beer, based on the trials of Ossian and Henry Sweet, and derived from Kevin Boyle's \"Arc of Justice\".\n\nThe Detroit Public Schools named Frank Murphy Elementary in his honor.\n\nHarbor Beach Michigan boasts a Frank Murphy Museum, at his former residence, open by appointment, filled with memorabilia from throughout his career, most notably from the Philippines.\n\nMurphy was a bachelor, leading to speculation about his personal life. Speculation has been recorded about the sexual orientation of a few justices who were lifelong bachelors, but no unambiguous evidence exists proving that they were gay. Perhaps the greatest body of circumstantial evidence surrounds Justice Murphy, who was dogged by \"[r]umors of homosexuality [...] all his adult life\". According to \"Courting Justice: Gay Men and Lesbians v. The Supreme Court\":\nFor more than 40 years, Edward G. Kemp was Frank Murphy's devoted, trusted companion. Like Murphy, Kemp was a lifelong bachelor. From college until Murphy's death, the pair found creative ways to work and live together. [...] When Murphy appeared to have the better future in politics, Kemp stepped into a supportive, secondary role.\nAs well as Murphy's close relationship with Kemp, Murphy's biographer, historian Sidney Fine, found in Murphy's personal papers a letter that \"if the words mean what they say, refers to a homosexual encounter some years earlier between Murphy and the writer.\" But the letter's veracity cannot be confirmed, and review of all the evidence led Fine to conclude he \"could not stick his neck out and say [Murphy] was gay\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12383", "title": "Genetic engineering", "text": "Genetic engineering\n\nGenetic engineering, also called genetic modification or genetic manipulation, is the direct manipulation of an organism's genes using biotechnology. It is a set of technologies used to change the genetic makeup of cells, including the transfer of genes within and across species boundaries to produce improved or novel organisms. New DNA is obtained by either isolating and copying the genetic material of interest using recombinant DNA methods or by artificially synthesising the DNA. A construct is usually created and used to insert this DNA into the host organism. The first recombinant DNA molecule was made by Paul Berg in 1972 by combining DNA from the monkey virus SV40 with the lambda virus. As well as inserting genes, the process can be used to remove, or \"knock out\", genes. The new DNA can be inserted randomly, or targeted to a specific part of the genome.\n\nAn organism that is generated through genetic engineering is considered to be genetically modified (GM) and the resulting entity is a genetically modified organism (GMO). The first GMO was a bacterium generated by Herbert Boyer and Stanley Cohen in 1973. Rudolf Jaenisch created the first GM animal when he inserted foreign DNA into a mouse in 1974. The first company to focus on genetic engineering, Genentech, was founded in 1976 and started the production of human proteins. Genetically engineered human insulin was produced in 1978 and insulin-producing bacteria were commercialised in 1982. Genetically modified food has been sold since 1994, with the release of the Flavr Savr tomato. The Flavr Savr was engineered to have a longer shelf life, but most current GM crops are modified to increase resistance to insects and herbicides. GloFish, the first GMO designed as a pet, was sold in the United States in December 2003. In 2016 salmon modified with a growth hormone were sold.\n\nGenetic engineering has been applied in numerous fields including research, medicine, industrial biotechnology and agriculture. In research GMOs are used to study gene function and expression through loss of function, gain of function, tracking and expression experiments. By knocking out genes responsible for certain conditions it is possible to create animal model organisms of human diseases. As well as producing hormones, vaccines and other drugs genetic engineering has the potential to cure genetic diseases through gene therapy. The same techniques that are used to produce drugs can also have industrial applications such as producing enzymes for laundry detergent, cheeses and other products.\n\nThe rise of commercialised genetically modified crops has provided economic benefit to farmers in many different countries, but has also been the source of most of the controversy surrounding the technology. This has been present since its early use, the first field trials were destroyed by anti-GM activists. Although there is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, GM food safety is a leading concern with critics. Gene flow, impact on non-target organisms, control of the food supply and intellectual property rights have also been raised as potential issues. These concerns have led to the development of a regulatory framework, which started in 1975. It has led to an international treaty, the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, that was adopted in 2000. Individual countries have developed their own regulatory systems regarding GMOs, with the most marked differences occurring between the USA and Europe.\n\nGenetic engineering is a process that alters the genetic structure of an organism by either removing or introducing DNA. Unlike traditional animal and plant breeding, which involves doing multiple crosses and then selecting for the organism with the desired phenotype, genetic engineering takes the gene directly from one organism and inserts it in the other. This is much faster, can be used to insert any genes from any organism (even ones from different domains) and prevents other undesirable genes from also being added.\n\nGenetic engineering could potentially fix severe genetic disorders in humans by replacing the defective gene with a functioning one. It is an important tool in research that allows the function of specific genes to be studied. Drugs, vaccines and other products have been harvested from organisms engineered to produce them. Crops have been developed that aid food security by increasing yield, nutritional value and tolerance to environmental stresses.\n\nThe DNA can be introduced directly into the host organism or into a cell that is then fused or hybridised with the host. This relies on recombinant nucleic acid techniques to form new combinations of heritable genetic material followed by the incorporation of that material either indirectly through a vector system or directly through micro-injection, macro-injection or micro-encapsulation.\n\nGenetic engineering does not normally include traditional breeding, in vitro fertilisation, induction of polyploidy, mutagenesis and cell fusion techniques that do not use recombinant nucleic acids or a genetically modified organism in the process. However, some broad definitions of genetic engineering include selective breeding. Cloning and stem cell research, although not considered genetic engineering, are closely related and genetic engineering can be used within them. Synthetic biology is an emerging discipline that takes genetic engineering a step further by introducing artificially synthesised material into an organism.\n\nPlants, animals or micro organisms that have been changed through genetic engineering are termed genetically modified organisms or GMOs. If genetic material from another species is added to the host, the resulting organism is called transgenic. If genetic material from the same species or a species that can naturally breed with the host is used the resulting organism is called cisgenic. If genetic engineering is used to remove genetic material from the target organism the resulting organism is termed a knockout organism. In Europe genetic modification is synonymous with genetic engineering while within the United States of America and Canada genetic modification can also be used to refer to more conventional breeding methods.\n\nHumans have altered the genomes of species for thousands of years through selective breeding, or artificial selection as contrasted with natural selection, and more recently through mutagenesis. Genetic engineering as the direct manipulation of DNA by humans outside breeding and mutations has only existed since the 1970s. The term \"genetic engineering\" was first coined by Jack Williamson in his science fiction novel \"Dragon's Island\", published in 1951 – one year before DNA's role in heredity was confirmed by Alfred Hershey and Martha Chase, and two years before James Watson and Francis Crick showed that the DNA molecule has a double-helix structure – though the general concept of direct genetic manipulation was explored in rudimentary form in Stanley G. Weinbaum's 1936 science fiction story \"Proteus Island\".\n\nIn 1972, Paul Berg created the first recombinant DNA molecules by combining DNA from the monkey virus SV40 with that of the lambda virus. In 1973 Herbert Boyer and Stanley Cohen created the first transgenic organism by inserting antibiotic resistance genes into the plasmid of an \"Escherichia coli\" bacterium. A year later Rudolf Jaenisch created a transgenic mouse by introducing foreign DNA into its embryo, making it the world’s first transgenic animal. These achievements led to concerns in the scientific community about potential risks from genetic engineering, which were first discussed in depth at the Asilomar Conference in 1975. One of the main recommendations from this meeting was that government oversight of recombinant DNA research should be established until the technology was deemed safe.\n\nIn 1976 Genentech, the first genetic engineering company, was founded by Herbert Boyer and Robert Swanson and a year later the company produced a human protein (somatostatin) in \"E.coli\". Genentech announced the production of genetically engineered human insulin in 1978. In 1980, the U.S. Supreme Court in the \"Diamond v. Chakrabarty\" case ruled that genetically altered life could be patented. The insulin produced by bacteria was approved for release by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1982.\n\nIn 1983, a biotech company, Advanced Genetic Sciences (AGS) applied for U.S. government authorisation to perform field tests with the ice-minus strain of \"Pseudomonas syringae\" to protect crops from frost, but environmental groups and protestors delayed the field tests for four years with legal challenges. In 1987, the ice-minus strain of \"P. syringae\" became the first genetically modified organism (GMO) to be released into the environment when a strawberry field and a potato field in California were sprayed with it. Both test fields were attacked by activist groups the night before the tests occurred: \"The world's first trial site attracted the world's first field trasher\".\n\nThe first field trials of genetically engineered plants occurred in France and the USA in 1986, tobacco plants were engineered to be resistant to herbicides. The People’s Republic of China was the first country to commercialise transgenic plants, introducing a virus-resistant tobacco in 1992. In 1994 Calgene attained approval to commercially release the first genetically modified food, the Flavr Savr, a tomato engineered to have a longer shelf life. In 1994, the European Union approved tobacco engineered to be resistant to the herbicide bromoxynil, making it the first genetically engineered crop commercialised in Europe. In 1995, Bt Potato was approved safe by the Environmental Protection Agency, after having been approved by the FDA, making it the first pesticide producing crop to be approved in the USA. In 2009 11 transgenic crops were grown commercially in 25 countries, the largest of which by area grown were the USA, Brazil, Argentina, India, Canada, China, Paraguay and South Africa.\n\nIn 2010, scientists at the J. Craig Venter Institute created the first synthetic genome and inserted it into an empty bacterial cell. The resulting bacterium, named Mycoplasma laboratorium, could replicate and produce proteins. Four years later this was taken a step further when a bacterium was developed that replicated a plasmid containing a unique base pair, creating the first organism engineered to use an expanded genetic alphabet. In 2012, Jennifer Doudna and Emmanuelle Charpentier collaborated to develop the CRISPR/Cas9 system, a technique which can be used to easily and specifically alter the genome of almost any organism.\n\nCreating a GMO is a multi-step process. Genetic engineers must first choose what gene they wish to insert into the organism. This is driven by what the aim is for the resultant organism and is built on earlier research. Genetic screens can be carried out to determine potential genes and further tests then used to identify the best candidates. The development of microarrays, transcriptomics and genome sequencing has made it much easier to find suitable genes. Luck also plays its part; the round-up ready gene was discovered after scientists noticed a bacterium thriving in the presence of the herbicide.\n\nThe next step is to isolate the candidate gene. The cell containing the gene is opened and the DNA is purified. The gene is separated by using restriction enzymes to cut the DNA into fragments or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to amplify up the gene segment. These segments can then be extracted through gel electrophoresis. If the chosen gene or the donor organism's genome has been well studied it may already be accessible from a genetic library. If the DNA sequence is known, but no copies of the gene are available, it can also be artificially synthesised. Once isolated the gene is ligated into a plasmid that is then inserted into a bacterium. The plasmid is replicated when the bacteria divide, ensuring unlimited copies of the gene are available.\n\nBefore the gene is inserted into the target organism it must be combined with other genetic elements. These include a promoter and terminator region, which initiate and end transcription. A selectable marker gene is added, which in most cases confers antibiotic resistance, so researchers can easily determine which cells have been successfully transformed. The gene can also be modified at this stage for better expression or effectiveness. These manipulations are carried out using recombinant DNA techniques, such as restriction digests, ligations and molecular cloning.\n\nThere are a number of techniques available for inserting the gene into the host genome. Some bacteria can naturally take up foreign DNA. This ability can be induced in other bacteria via stress (e.g. thermal or electric shock), which increases the cell membrane's permeability to DNA; up-taken DNA can either integrate with the genome or exist as extrachromosomal DNA. DNA is generally inserted into animal cells using microinjection, where it can be injected through the cell's nuclear envelope directly into the nucleus, or through the use of viral vectors.\n\nIn plants the DNA is often inserted using \"Agrobacterium\"-mediated recombination, taking advantage of the \"Agrobacterium\"s T-DNA sequence that allows natural insertion of genetic material into plant cells. Other methods include biolistics, where particles of gold or tungsten are coated with DNA and then shot into young plant cells, and electroporation, which involves using an electric shock to make the cell membrane permeable to plasmid DNA. Due to the damage caused to the cells and DNA the transformation efficiency of biolistics and electroporation is lower than agrobacterial transformation and microinjection.\n\nAs only a single cell is transformed with genetic material, the organism must be regenerated from that single cell. In plants this is accomplished through the use of tissue culture. In animals it is necessary to ensure that the inserted DNA is present in the embryonic stem cells. Bacteria consist of a single cell and reproduce clonally so regeneration is not necessary. Selectable markers are used to easily differentiate transformed from untransformed cells. These markers are usually present in the transgenic organism, although a number of strategies have been developed that can remove the selectable marker from the mature transgenic plant.\n\nFurther testing using PCR, Southern hybridization, and DNA sequencing is conducted to confirm that an organism contains the new gene. These tests can also confirm the chromosomal location and copy number of the inserted gene. The presence of the gene does not guarantee it will be expressed at appropriate levels in the target tissue so methods that look for and measure the gene products (RNA and protein) are also used. These include northern hybridisation, quantitative RT-PCR, Western blot, immunofluorescence, ELISA and phenotypic analysis.\n\nThe new genetic material can be inserted randomly within the host genome or targeted to a specific location. The technique of gene targeting uses homologous recombination to make desired changes to a specific endogenous gene. This tends to occur at a relatively low frequency in plants and animals and generally requires the use of selectable markers. The frequency of gene targeting can be greatly enhanced through genome editing. Genome editing uses artificially engineered nucleases that create specific double-stranded breaks at desired locations in the genome, and use the cell’s endogenous mechanisms to repair the induced break by the natural processes of homologous recombination and nonhomologous end-joining. There are four families of engineered nucleases: meganucleases, zinc finger nucleases, transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs), and the Cas9-guideRNA system (adapted from CRISPR). TALEN and CRISPR are the two most commonly used and each has its own advantages. TALENs have greater target specificity, while CRISPR is easier to design and more efficient. In addition to enhancing gene targeting, engineered nucleases can be used to introduce mutations at endogenous genes that generate a gene knockout.\n\nGenetic engineering has applications in medicine, research, industry and agriculture and can be used on a wide range of plants, animals and micro organisms. Bacteria, the first organisms to be genetically modified, can have plasmid DNA inserted containing new genes that code for medicines or enzymes that process food and other substrates. Plants have been modified for insect protection, herbicide resistance, virus resistance, enhanced nutrition, tolerance to environmental pressures and the production of edible vaccines. Most commercialised GMOs are insect resistant or herbicide tolerant crop plants. Genetically modified animals have been used for research, model animals and the production of agricultural or pharmaceutical products. The genetically modified animals include animals with genes knocked out, increased susceptibility to disease, hormones for extra growth and the ability to express proteins in their milk.\n\nGenetic engineering has many applications to medicine that include the manufacturing of drugs, creation of model animals that mimic human conditions and gene therapy. One of the earliest uses of genetic engineering was to mass-produce human insulin in bacteria. This application has now been applied to, human growth hormones, follicle stimulating hormones (for treating infertility), human albumin, monoclonal antibodies, antihemophilic factors, vaccines and many other drugs. Mouse hybridomas, cells fused together to create monoclonal antibodies, have been adapted through genetic engineering to create human monoclonal antibodies. In 2017, genetic engineering of chimeric antigen receptors on a patient's own T-cells was approved by the U.S. FDA as a treatment for the cancer acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Genetically engineered viruses are being developed that can still confer immunity, but lack the infectious sequences.\n\nGenetic engineering is also used to create animal models of human diseases. Genetically modified mice are the most common genetically engineered animal model. They have been used to study and model cancer (the oncomouse), obesity, heart disease, diabetes, arthritis, substance abuse, anxiety, aging and Parkinson disease. Potential cures can be tested against these mouse models. Also genetically modified pigs have been bred with the aim of increasing the success of pig to human organ transplantation.\n\nGene therapy is the genetic engineering of humans, generally by replacing defective genes with effective ones. Clinical research using somatic gene therapy has been conducted with several diseases, including X-linked SCID, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and Parkinson's disease. In 2012, Alipogene tiparvovec became the first gene therapy treatment to be approved for clinical use. In 2015 a virus was used to insert a healthy gene into the skin cells of a boy suffering from a rare skin disease, epidermolysis bullosa, in order to grow, and then graft healthy skin onto 80 percent of the boy's body which was affected by the illness.\n\nGermline gene therapy would result in any change being inheritable, which has raised concerns within the scientific community. In 2015, CRISPR was used to edit the DNA of non-viable human embryos, leading scientists of major world academies to call for a moratorium on inheritable human genome edits. There are also concerns that the technology could be used not just for treatment, but for enhancement, modification or alteration of a human beings' appearance, adaptability, intelligence, character or behavior. The distinction between cure and enhancement can also be difficult to establish. In November 2018, He Jiankui announced that he had edited the genomes of two human embryos, to attempt to disable the \"CCR5\" gene, which codes for a receptor that HIV uses to enter cells. He said that twin girls, Lulu and Nana, had been born a few weeks earlier. He said that the girls still carried functional copies of CCR5 along with disabled CCR5 (mosaicism) and were still vulnerable to HIV. The work was widely condemned as unethical, dangerous, and premature.\n\nResearchers are altering the genome of pigs to induce the growth of human organs to be used in transplants. Scientists are creating \"gene drives\", changing the genomes of mosquitoes to make them immune to malaria, and then spreading the genetically altered mosquitoes throughout the mosquito population in the hopes of eliminating the disease.\n\nGenetic engineering is an important tool for natural scientists. Genes and other genetic information from a wide range of organisms can be inserted into bacteria for storage and modification, creating genetically modified bacteria in the process. Bacteria are cheap, easy to grow, clonal, multiply quickly, relatively easy to transform and can be stored at -80 °C almost indefinitely. Once a gene is isolated it can be stored inside the bacteria providing an unlimited supply for research.\n\nOrganisms are genetically engineered to discover the functions of certain genes. This could be the effect on the phenotype of the organism, where the gene is expressed or what other genes it interacts with. These experiments generally involve loss of function, gain of function, tracking and expression.\n\n\nOrganisms can have their cells transformed with a gene coding for a useful protein, such as an enzyme, so that they will overexpress the desired protein. Mass quantities of the protein can then be manufactured by growing the transformed organism in bioreactor equipment using industrial fermentation, and then purifying the protein. Some genes do not work well in bacteria, so yeast, insect cells or mammalians cells can also be used. These techniques are used to produce medicines such as insulin, human growth hormone, and vaccines, supplements such as tryptophan, aid in the production of food (chymosin in cheese making) and fuels. Other applications with genetically engineered bacteria could involve making them perform tasks outside their natural cycle, such as making biofuels, cleaning up oil spills, carbon and other toxic waste and detecting arsenic in drinking water. Certain genetically modified microbes can also be used in biomining and bioremediation, due to their ability to extract heavy metals from their environment and incorporate them into compounds that are more easily recoverable.\n\nIn materials science, a genetically modified virus has been used in a research laboratory as a scaffold for assembling a more environmentally friendly lithium-ion battery. Bacteria have also been engineered to function as sensors by expressing a fluorescent protein under certain environmental conditions.\n\nOne of the best-known and controversial applications of genetic engineering is the creation and use of genetically modified crops or genetically modified livestock to produce genetically modified food. Crops have been developed to increase production, increase tolerance to abiotic stresses, alter the composition of the food, or to produce novel products.\n\nThe first crops to be realised commercially on a large scale provided protection from insect pests or tolerance to herbicides. Fungal and virus resistant crops have also been developed or are in development. This make the insect and weed management of crops easier and can indirectly increase crop yield. GM crops that directly improve yield by accelerating growth or making the plant more hardy (by improving salt, cold or drought tolerance) are also under development. In 2016 Salmon have been genetically modified with growth hormones to reach normal adult size much faster.\n\nGMOs have been developed that modify the quality of produce by increasing the nutritional value or providing more industrially useful qualities or quantities. The Amflora potato produces a more industrially useful blend of starches. Soybeans and canola have been genetically modified to produce more healthy oils. The first commercialised GM food was a tomato that had delayed ripening, increasing its shelf life.\n\nPlants and animals have been engineered to produce materials they do not normally make. Pharming uses crops and animals as bioreactors to produce vaccines, drug intermediates, or the drugs themselves; the useful product is purified from the harvest and then used in the standard pharmaceutical production process. Cows and goats have been engineered to express drugs and other proteins in their milk, and in 2009 the FDA approved a drug produced in goat milk.\n\nGenetic engineering has potential applications in conservation and natural area management. Gene transfer through viral vectors has been proposed as a means of controlling invasive species as well as vaccinating threatened fauna from disease. Transgenic trees have been suggested as a way to confer resistance to pathogens in wild populations. With the increasing risks of maladaptation in organisms as a result of climate change and other perturbations, facilitated adaptation through gene tweaking could be one solution to reducing extinction risks. Applications of genetic engineering in conservation are thus far mostly theoretical and have yet to be put into practice.\n\nGenetic engineering is also being used to create microbial art. Some bacteria have been genetically engineered to create black and white photographs. Novelty items such as lavender-colored carnations, blue roses, and glowing fish have also been produced through genetic engineering.\n\nThe regulation of genetic engineering concerns the approaches taken by governments to assess and manage the risks associated with the development and release of GMOs. The development of a regulatory framework began in 1975, at Asilomar, California. The Asilomar meeting recommended a set of voluntary guidelines regarding the use of recombinant technology. As the technology improved USA established a committee at the Office of Science and Technology, which assigned regulatory approval of GM food to the USDA, FDA and EPA. The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, an international treaty that governs the transfer, handling, and use of GMOs, was adopted on 29 January 2000. One hundred and fifty-seven countries are members of the Protocol and many use it as a reference point for their own regulations.\n\nThe legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation. Some countries allow the import of GM food with authorisation, but either do not allow its cultivation (Russia, Norway, Israel) or have provisions for cultivation even though no GM products are yet produced (Japan, South Korea). Most countries that do not allow GMO cultivation do permit research. Some of the most marked differences occurring between the USA and Europe. The US policy focuses on the product (not the process), only looks at verifiable scientific risks and uses the concept of substantial equivalence. The European Union by contrast has possibly the most stringent GMO regulations in the world. All GMOs, along with irradiated food, are considered \"new food\" and subject to extensive, case-by-case, science-based food evaluation by the European Food Safety Authority. The criteria for authorisation fall in four broad categories: \"safety,\" \"freedom of choice,\" \"labelling,\" and \"traceability.\" The level of regulation in other countries that cultivate GMOs lie in between Europe and the United States.\nOne of the key issues concerning regulators is whether GM products should be labeled. The European Commission says that mandatory labeling and traceability are needed to allow for informed choice, avoid potential false advertising and facilitate the withdrawal of products if adverse effects on health or the environment are discovered. The American Medical Association and the American Association for the Advancement of Science say that absent scientific evidence of harm even voluntary labeling is misleading and will falsely alarm consumers. Labeling of GMO products in the marketplace is required in 64 countries. Labeling can be mandatory up to a threshold GM content level (which varies between countries) or voluntary. In Canada and the USA labeling of GM food is voluntary, while in Europe all food (including processed food) or feed which contains greater than 0.9% of approved GMOs must be labelled.\n\nCritics have objected to the use of genetic engineering on several grounds, that include ethical, ecological and economic concerns. Many of these concerns involve GM crops and whether food produced from them is safe and what impact growing them will have on the environment. These controversies have led to litigation, international trade disputes, and protests, and to restrictive regulation of commercial products in some countries.\n\nAccusations that scientists are \"playing God\" and other religious issues have been ascribed to the technology from the beginning. Other ethical issues raised include the patenting of life, the use of intellectual property rights, the level of labeling on products, control of the food supply and the objectivity of the regulatory process. Although doubts have been raised, economically most studies have found growing GM crops to be beneficial to farmers.\n\nGene flow between GM crops and compatible plants, along with increased use of selective herbicides, can increase the risk of \"superweeds\" developing. Other environmental concerns involve potential impacts on non-target organisms, including soil microbes, and an increase in secondary and resistant insect pests. Many of the environmental impacts regarding GM crops may take many years to be understood and are also evident in conventional agriculture practices. With the commercialisation of genetically modified fish there are concerns over what the environmental consequences will be if they escape.\n\nThere are three main concerns over the safety of genetically modified food: whether they may provoke an allergic reaction; whether the genes could transfer from the food into human cells; and whether the genes not approved for human consumption could outcross to other crops. There is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32700824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32700824", "title": "Gilbert Basset", "text": "Gilbert Basset\n\nGilbert Basset (died 1241) was an English baronial leader during the reign of King Henry III.\n\nBasset was the eldest son of Alan Basset, baron of Wycombe. About 1231 he appears to have negotiated a truce with Llewellyn of Wales on behalf of Henry III. Alan Basset appears to have died in 1232, and Gilbert succeeded him in his barony. According to Dugdale, he was made governor of St Briavels Castle and the Forest of Dean. He married Isabel, daughter of William de Ferrers, 5th Earl of Derby and niece to the William Marshal, 2nd Earl of Pembroke—a fact which helps to explain his intimate relations with the Earls Marshal.\n\nGilbert Basset seems at once to have joined the popular party, then headed by Richard, Earl Marshal. When the barons were summoned to Oxford in June 1233 and refused to meet with the king's Poitevin relatives, he took a very prominent part in their councils; so much so that, according to Matthew Paris, Henry's wrath was specially kindled against him. For this conduct Basset forfeited a certain manor that he had received from King John; when he claimed it back from the king he was called a traitor, and threatened with hanging unless he left the court. At the same time Richard Siward, Gilbert's nephew by marriage, was seized by the king's orders and held captive—presumably as a hostage for his uncle's conduct. \n\nWhen, on the advice of Stephen Segrave, Henry summoned Gilbert Basset and the confederated nobles to meet him at Gloucester in August 1233 and they refused to come, they were promptly outlawed, and orders were given for the destruction of the towns, castles, and parks belonging to them. In retaliation for this, Basset and Siward set fire to Stephen Segrave's villa of Alconbury, though the king himself was then staying at Huntingdon, some four miles distant.\n\nAfter Richard Marshal's death Henry received both Basset and Siward into his favour, and gave them the kiss of peace towards the end of May 1234. At the same time their estates were restored to them. When, a few days later, Richard Marshal's brother Gilbert was installed as Earl Marshal, the king received Hubert de Burgh, Gilbert Basset, and Richard Siward amongst the number of his most familiar councillors. There does not seem to be any evidence that Gilbert Basset was estranged from the king when Richard Siward was once more banished in 1236; and, indeed, early in the next year he appears as distinctly on the king's side, when William de Raley demanded an aid from the barons. On this occasion the rashness of his speech drew a well-merited rebuke from one of the magnates present.\n\nIn the same year Basset's name appears as having taken part in a great tournament, held at Lent, of north against south (\"Norenses et Australes\"). The south won the day, but not before the contest had changed into a real battle. All the influence of the Papal legate Oddone di Monferrato was required to reconcile the contending parties. Four years later, on Easter 1241, Gilbert Basset figures as one of the two chief promoters of a grand tournament of foreigners against Englishmen. This engagement was, however, forbidden to take place by the king's orders.\n\nIn the autumn of the same year Basset met with his death. While he was going out to hunt, his horse tripped on a root and threw its rider, who was taken up in a kind of paralysis (\"dissipatis ossibus et nervis dissolutis\"), from which he never recovered. Before the end of August his only son, Gilbert, also died, leaving the Basset estates to devolve upon his brother Fulk. There does not appear to be any authority for Collins's incidental statement that Gilbert Basset was justiciary.\n"}
{"id": "1437812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1437812", "title": "Godiva Chocolatier", "text": "Godiva Chocolatier\n\nGodiva Chocolatier (pronounced \"guh-DIE-va\") is a Belgian manufacturer of chocolates and related products. Godiva, founded in 1926, was purchased by the Turkish Yıldız Holding, owner of the Ülker Group, on November 20, 2007. Godiva owns and operates more than 600 retail boutiques and shops in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Asia and is available via over 10,000 specialty retailers.\n\nIn addition to chocolates, Godiva also sells truffles, coffee, cocoa, biscuits, dipped fruits and sweets, chocolate liqueur, shakes, wedding and party favors and other items arranged in gift baskets. Godiva's signature package is the Gold Ballotin (French for \"small, cardboard box of chocolates\"). Godiva also produces seasonal and limited-edition chocolates with special packaging for major holidays. Godiva also has license agreements for the production of ice cream, cheesecake, coffee pods and liqueur that comes in several chocolate-related flavors. Products are also available in sugar-free and Kosher varieties.\nGodiva has been involved in the controversy over child labor production of chocolate\n\nGodiva was founded in 1926 in Brussels, Belgium, by the Draps family who opened their first boutique in the Grand Place in Brussels under its present name, in honour of the legend of Lady Godiva. The first Godiva shop outside Belgium was opened in Paris on the fashionable Rue Saint Honoré in 1958. In 1966, the company's products reached the United States, where they were sold at luxury shopping centers. The following year, it was purchased by the Campbell Soup Company. In 1972, the first Godiva boutique in North America was opened on New York City's Fifth Avenue. \n\nBy 2007, Godiva had annual sales of approximately $500 million. In August of that year, Campbell Soup Company announced it was \"exploring strategic alternatives, including possible divestiture, for its Godiva Chocolatier business\"; the company said the \"premium chocolate business does not fit with Campbell's strategic focus on simple meals\".\n\nOn December 20, 2007, Campbell announced that it entered into an agreement to sell Godiva to Yıldız Holding based in Istanbul, Turkey, which is the owner of Ülker group and the largest consumer goods manufacturer in the Turkish food industry. The acquisition was completed on March 18, 2008, for $850 million.\n\nGodiva continues to own and operate more than 450 shops worldwide. The company issues six seasonal mail-order catalogs a year in the USA and also accepts online and telephone orders for their products. Godiva chocolate is also sold in local malls and mini shops.\n\nGodiva opened (May 2012) Café Godiva in London’s Harrod’s Department Store. The 40-plus table venue features Godiva’s chocolate beverages, pastries, and chocolates. The company also has a store in the Harrods Food Hall.\n\nGodiva is a participating member of the World Cocoa Foundation and Cocoa Horizons Foundation. The company is a partner of Save the Children, and began The Lady Godiva Program which partnered with FEED Projects in its first year.\n\nIn 2016, Godiva celebrated its 90th anniversary and opened its 100th store in China. In 2017, the business opened its first store in Australia, inaugurated its Pierre Draps Chocolate Research & Development Centre in Brussels, and opened its North America flagship store in Rockefeller Center. In 2018, Godiva opened its first café in Brussels, the birthplace of the brand.\n\nOn 1 February 2018, Godiva took out a full-page ad in the Nihon Keizaki Shimbun financial newspaper, suggesting the retirement of the giri choco practice. In Japan, as part of the giri choco practice, women are expected to buy chocolate for their colleagues, friends, bosses and sometimes family members on Valentine's Day. The public's reaction to the ad was generally seen as favorable.\n\nIn 2016, Godiva had approximately 650 retail stores throughout the world. Godiva's global presence increased rapidly, especially in countries like China and Japan. \n\nGodiva also has 2 plants. One operating in Brussels, Belgium, and another operating in Reading, Pennsylvania.\n\nGodiva Chocolatier offers a wide range of products such as chocolate strawberries, coffee and cocoa, and wrapped chocolates.\nGodiva has a team of 4 chefs that are in charge of Godiva’s markets: Europe, USA, China and Japan.\n\nPierre Draps Jr. was born in the Brussels borough of Koekelberg where the first Godiva store opened. Pierre Draps's father, Pierre Draps Sr, who started making the now world famous pralines in 1926. Pierre Jr and his two brothers, Joseph and François, soon joined their father in the business. Pierre Jr. started making chocolates in Brussels, Belgium, for sale to local shops. His shop in Brussels' Grande Place was a success, and over the next decade, several other outlets were opened around Belgium. \n\nPierre Jr. named the company Godiva because he was inspired by the ancient legend of Lady Godiva of Coventry. Godiva still uses recipes developed by Pierre Jr.'s father today.\n\nIn 2012, Pierre Draps Jr. passed at the age of 92.\n\nLawyers of the company have sent a series of letters warning the Lady Godiva public house in Geneva, Switzerland, that they are infringing upon their intellectual property with the latest asking them to cease and desist from using the name. Pru Porretta, MBE, who was behind the revival of Dame Goodyver's Daye in Coventry, England, where a procession through the city's streets includes her representing Lady Godiva riding a horse commented \"I think it's very sad. Godiva was a great woman who challenged her husband to stop the terrible things that were happening to the people. I'm sure Lady Godiva wouldn't care for a company which seems to be taking something that wasn't theirs originally and wants to use it for themselves and nobody else. It's about our rich heritage. I would say it's morally wrong\".\n\n"}
{"id": "38092457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38092457", "title": "Hugh of Saxony", "text": "Hugh of Saxony\n\nHugh of Saxony or Hugh de Saxony(ca. 850 – 880) was a Frankish prince, a member of the Carolingian dynasty. He was born in Saxony around 850, the illegitimate son of Louis the Younger, and an unnamed concubine. It is possible he was also the brother of another illegitimate son, Bernhard. He was born during the reign of his grandfather Louis the German.\n\nAt an early age, Hugh was appointed count of Saxony. He was immediately despatched to the East Saxon border, where after he is known to have fought in border skirmishes with both Hungarian and Viking forces. In 880 he was killed at the Battle of Thimeon by Viking raiders.\n"}
{"id": "1612722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1612722", "title": "Index of genetics articles", "text": "Index of genetics articles\n\nGenetics (from Ancient Greek ', “genite” and that from ', “origin”), a discipline of biology, is the science of heredity and variation in living organisms.\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to genetics include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50544673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50544673", "title": "James Dallas Burrus", "text": "James Dallas Burrus\n\nJames Dallas Burrus (14 October 1846 – 5 December 1928) was an African-American educator, druggist and philanthropist from Tennessee. He and a brother were among the first three graduates of Fisk University, the first African Americans to graduate from a liberal arts college south of the Mason-Dixon line. After completing graduate work in mathematics at Dartmouth College, Burrus became the first professor of mathematics at Fisk University. He later continued his teaching career at Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College in Mississippi. \n\nJames Dallas Burrus was born into slavery in 1846 at Murfreesboro, Rutherford County, Tennessee, the son of William C. J. Burrus and his enslaved common-law wife, Nancy Burrus. The couple had three mixed-race sons: James Dallas Burrus, John Houston Burrus, and Preston Robert Burrus.\n\nWilliam C. J. Burrus (WCJ Burrus) (18 December 1815-25 May 1859) was a white planter, lawyer, and politician. He had a sister Elizabeth Burrus (1802–1850). Their parents were Joseph Burrus (1762–1821) and Sophia Rucker (1775–1835).\n\nBurrus had purchased Nancy at a slave auction in Nashville; she was tri-racial, of mulatto-American Indian ancestry. WCJ Burrus died on 25 May 1859, less than two years before the Civil War broke out. He was buried in Burrus Cemetery on his plantation Cherry Lane Acres, Rutherford County, Tennessee. \n\nHis will provided for his slave wife Nancy to inherit his estate. The courts of Rutherford County did not recognize this provision or the will at all. The estate, including Nancy Burrus and her three sons, became the property of a nephew by marriage, the son-in-law of Burrus's sister. \n\nAfter Burrus's nephew, Colonel James Camp Tappan, inherited the four slaves, he took them with him during his service in the Confederate Army. Tappan had married Mary Elizabeth Anderson on 26 June 1854; she was the daughter of Burrus's sister, Elizabeth (Burrus) and her husband Judge Samuel Anderson of Rutherford County, Tennessee. \n\nHe assigned Nancy Burrus as a cook and the three sons as man servants to officers. Tappan fought in campaigns across Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, and Arkansas. In 1865, at the end of the Civil War, the Burrus family was in Marshall, Texas with what remained of Braxton Bragg's Army of Mississippi.\n\nThe Emancipation Proclamation of President Abraham Lincoln delivered the family into freedom. They made their way to Shreveport, Louisiana, then to New Orleans, and eventually to Memphis, Tennessee. In Memphis, James and John were able to find work. Before long the family moved to Nashville. In Nashville, James and John worked as wait staff in hotels and began to save for college.\n\nTo increase his income, James Burrus began teaching in the primary and secondary schools in Goodlettsville, Tennessee and in Arkansas. In 1867, Burrus and his brother John enrolled as part of the first, four-person class at Fisk University. They pursued an academic, classical education. James was to study mathematics and John would study Greek. They needed preparatory classes to supplement their education. In 1875, Fisk University graduated James Burrus, John Houston Burrus, Virginia Eliza Walker and America W. Robinson as the first class of Fisk University. They were the first blacks or people of color to earn a bachelor's degree from a liberal arts college south of the Mason–Dixon line. \n\nFisk's faculty was then majority-white and most also served as missionaries. Recognizing James' promise, they tried to persuade him to enter the ministry. He chose mathematics instead, and the instructors encouraged Burrus to continue his studies. Robinson and Burrus were engaged for a short period, but during much of this time she was touring in Europe with the Fisk Jubilee Singers. They broke it off by 1878, and he never married. \n\nRobinson loaned Burrus money to attend graduate school at Dartmouth College, where he enrolled in 1877 to study mathematics. In 1879, he was awarded the Master of Arts in mathematics. This was the first instance of an African American to receive a master of arts degree in the United States.\n\nIn May 1881, Burrus accepted an appointment at Fisk University as the first professor of mathematics. In 1882, he received an appointment at Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College in Mississippi as professor of mathematics and superintendent of the college farm.\n\nThroughout his life, Burrus was a donor to Fisk University. Beginning around 1915, Burrus donated property worth $7,000 to Fisk University. In 1915, a gift of $600 was made. In 1917, James and Preston Burrus together made a contribution to Fisk in the amount of $112 to the Fisk Endowment Fund. An 85-acre farm was given to the school in 1922 by these two brothers. \nWhen Fisk University needed funds in 1926 to remove a debt, during a capital campaign the Burrus brothers donated $1,000. Upon James Burrus’s death in 1928, his will stipulated that his estate be left to Fisk University. At the time of his death, his estate consisted of 85 houses, and stocks and bonds, valued at over $120,000.\n\nIn 1928, Burrus died on a streetcar at Nashville, Davidson County, Tennessee. The certificate of death listed the cause as chronic myocarditis and contributory factor as old age. His occupation at the time of death was druggist and he was single.\nBurrus left $100,000 to Fisk University. The announcement of his death and beequest made the front page of newspapers across the country in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "47511015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47511015", "title": "Large scale brain networks", "text": "Large scale brain networks\n\nLarge scale brain networks are collections of widespread brain regions showing functional connectivity by statistical analysis of the fMRI BOLD signal or other signal fluctuations. An emerging paradigm in neuroscience is that cognitive tasks are performed not by individual brain regions working in isolation, but by networks consisting of several discrete brain regions that are said to be \"functionally connected\" due to tightly coupled activity. Functional connectivity may be measured as long-range synchronization of the EEG, MEG, or other dynamic brain signals. Synchronized brain regions may also be identified using spatial independent component analysis. The set of identified brain areas that are linked together in a large-scale network varies with cognitive function. When the cognitive state is not explicit (i.e., the subject is at \"rest\"), the large scale brain network is a resting state network (RSN). As a physical system with graph-like properties, a large scale brain network has both nodes and edges, and cannot be identified simply by the co-activation of brain areas. In recent decades, the analysis of brain networks was made feasible by advances in imaging techniques as well as new tools from graph theory and dynamical systems. Large scale brain networks are identified by their function, and provide a coherent framework for understanding cognition by offering a neural model of how different cognitive functions emerge when different sets of brain regions join together as self-organized coalitions. Disruptions in activity in various networks have been implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders such as depression, Alzheimer's, autism spectrum disorder, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. \n\nThe following four networks have been identified by at least three studies.\n\n\n\nSeveral other brain networks have also been identified: auditory, motor, right executive, posterior default mode, left fronto-parietal, \ncerebellar, ventral attention, spatial attention, language, left executive, and sensorimotor network. There are also models suggesting that “components of memory representation are distributed widely across different parts of the brain as mediated by multiple neocortical circuits”.\n\n"}
{"id": "43442620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43442620", "title": "List of American higher education institutions with open Title IX sexual violence investigations", "text": "List of American higher education institutions with open Title IX sexual violence investigations\n\nThe list of higher education institutions with open Title IX Sexual Violence investigations, is a public list of institutions under investigation by the Office for Civil Rights in the United States Department of Education, first made public on May 1, 2014. When announcing the schools under investigation, Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights Catherine E. Lhamon suggested that \"increased transparency will spur community dialogue about this important issue... and foster better public awareness of civil rights.\"\n\nInvestigations previously went unannounced, and were known only to members of university and college communities. This list constitutes the first time the federal government has announced ongoing sexual violence investigations. The decision to release the names of universities and colleges under investigation was due to pressure from both the White House Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault and the New Campus Anti-Rape Movement. Importantly, Lhamon continued, \"a college or university's appearance on this list and being the subject of a Title IX investigation in no way indicates at this stage that the college or university is violating or has violated the law.\"\n\nThere are critics of the list on both sides of campus anti-rape politics. Andrea Pino, a complainant against UNC-Chapel Hill and co-founder of End Rape on Campus, told the Huffington Post that \"\"Announcing an investigation can open survivors to retaliation, and it's important that the OCR also take emphasis on providing survivors an option to opt out of having their investigation announced if it could endanger them, especially in small institutions where anonymity is less of an option.\" Organizations like FIRE have argued that the OCR list—along with its precursor the Dear colleague letter—violates the rights to due process for both institutions and individuals.\n\nThe initial list from the Office of Civil Rights listed 55 colleges and universities that are \"under investigation for possible violations of federal law over the handling of sexual violence and harassment complaints.\" These included:\n\nOn July 2, 2014, the Office of Civil Rights added 12 colleges and universities to its list.\n\nOn July 10, 2014, Brown University was listed under investigation, \"prompted by a complaint filed May 14 by Legal Momentum, a nonprofit advocating for women’s and girls’ legal rights, which claimed that the University violated Title IX.\"\n\nBy July 30, 2014, a list attributed to the Office of Civil Rights included four new schools:\n\nIn April 2015, there were over 100 active investigations, including University of Michigan, Grand Valley State University, and Alma College.\n\nIn 2016, there were 246 active investigations, including Stanford University, and Utah State University.\n\nIn January 2017 there were 304 investigations at 223 institutions; in July 2017, there were 316 cases at 229 institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "71421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71421", "title": "Manuel Noriega", "text": "Manuel Noriega\n\nManuel Antonio Noriega Moreno (; February 11, 1934 – May 29, 2017) was a Panamanian politician and military officer who was the \"de facto\" ruler of Panama from 1983 to 1989. He had longstanding ties to United States intelligence agencies; however, he was removed from power by the U.S. invasion of Panama.\n\nBorn in Panama City to a poor mestizo family, Noriega studied at the Chorrillos Military School in Lima and at the School of the Americas. He became an officer in the Panamanian army, and rose through the ranks in alliance with Omar Torrijos. In 1968, Torrijos overthrew President Arnulfo Arias in a coup, establishing himself as leader; under Torrijos' government, Noriega became chief of military intelligence. After Torrijos' death in 1981, Noriega consolidated his power to become Panama's \"de facto\" ruler in 1983. From the 1950s until shortly before the U.S. invasion, Noriega worked with U.S. intelligence agencies. Noriega was one of the Central Intelligence Agency's most valued intelligence sources, as well as one of the primary conduits for illicit weapons, military equipment and cash destined for U.S.-backed counter-insurgency forces throughout Latin America. The U.S. also regarded Noriega as an ally in its War on Drugs, despite Noriega himself having amassed a personal fortune through drug trafficking operations. Though his U.S. intelligence handlers were aware of this, it was allowed because of his usefulness to the U.S.\n\nNoriega relied upon military nationalism to maintain his support, and did not a specific social or economic ideology. In 1988, Noriega was indicted by federal grand juries in Miami and Tampa on charges of racketeering, drug smuggling, and money laundering. Following the 1989 U.S. invasion of Panama, he was captured and flown to the United States, where he was tried on the Miami indictment. The trial, lasting from September 1991 to April 1992, ended with Noriega's conviction on most of the charges. He was sentenced to 40 years in prison, and ultimately served 17 years after a reduction in his sentence and time off for good behavior. Noriega's U.S. prison sentence ended in September 2007. In 2010, Noriega was extradited to France, where he was sentenced to seven years of imprisonment for money laundering. In 2011 France extradited him to Panama, where he was incarcerated for crimes committed during his rule.\n\nDiagnosed with a brain tumor in March 2017, Noriega suffered complications during surgery, and died two months later. Generally described as a military dictatorship, Noriega's rule in Panama was marked by repression of the media, an expansion of the military, and the persecution of political opponents, effectively controlling the outcomes of any elections. He was known for his complicated relationship with the U.S., being described as being its ally and nemesis at the same time. He has been called one of the best-known dictators of his time, and compared to authoritarian rulers such as Muammar Gaddafi and Augusto Pinochet.\n\nNoriega was born in Panama City, into a relatively poor mestizo, or mixed-race, family with Native American, African, and Spanish heritage. Noriega's mother has been variously described as a cook or a laundress, while his father, Ricaurte Noriega, was an accountant. Neither had a lengthy presence in his life: his mother died of tuberculosis when he was still a child. Noriega was brought up by a godmother in a one-room apartment in the slum area of Terraplén. Authors and journalists have suggested that Noriega was in fact the illegitimate son of his father and his father's domestic worker, whose family name was Moreno.\n\nNoriega was educated first at the Escuela República de México, and later at the Instituto Nacional, a well-regarded high school in Panama City that had produced a number of nationalist political leaders. He was described as an \"oddly serious child,\" a bookish student always neatly dressed by his punctilious godmother. During his time in the Instituto Nacional he met his older brother Luis, a socialist activist and also a student at the school: Manuel had not previously met his siblings. Manuel began living with Luis, who introduced him to politics, including recruiting him into the Socialist Party's youth wing. During his time in the Socialist youth group, Noriega took part in protests and authored articles criticizing the U.S. presence in Panama. He is reported to have begun his association with the U.S. intelligence services at this time, providing information about the activities of his comrades. He continued to work with the U.S. intelligence services at various points till the 1980s: a $10.70 payment in 1955 was the first of many payments he would receive from the U.S. for his activities.\n\nNoriega harbored intentions of becoming a doctor, but was unable to secure a place in the University of Panama's medical school. After graduating from the Instituto Nacional, Noriega won a scholarship to Chorrillos Military School in the Peruvian capital of Lima, with the help of Luis, who had by then received a position in the Panamanian embassy in Peru. While in Peru he made the acquaintance of Roberto Díaz Herrera, who later became a close ally.\n\nNoriega married Felicidad Sieiro de Noriega, whom he had met in the 1960s, and the couple had three daughters: Lorena; Sandra; and Thays. Siero had been a school teacher, and Noriega a member of the National Guard. Her family, of Basque heritage, was reported to have been unhappy with the marriage. Noriega was repeatedly unfaithful to his wife, who at one point expressed a desire for a divorce, though she changed her mind later.\n\nNoriega graduated from Chorrillos in 1962 with a specialization in engineering. He returned to Panama and joined the Panama National Guard. Posted to Colón, he was given a commission as a second lieutenant in September 1962. His commanding officer in Colón was Omar Torrijos, then a Major in the National Guard. Torrijos became a patron and mentor to Noriega, protecting him when he ran into trouble. In a 1962 incident, according to journalist John Dinges, Torrijos helped Noriega avoid legal problems after a prostitute accused Noriega of beating and raping her. Soon after, Noriega's drinking and violence obliged Torrijos to confine him to his quarters for a month. Despite Noriega's problems, Torrijos maintained their relationship, ensuring they were always in the same command; he also brought Díaz Herrera into the same unit. Díaz Herrera and Noriega became both friends and rivals for Torrijos's favor. In 1966, Noriega was again involved in a violent incident, allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl and beating her brother. After this Torrijos transferred Noriega to a remote posting.\n\nAfter several months, Noriega was transferred to the province of Chiriquí, where Torrijos and Díaz Herrera were posted. That year's presidential election was contested by Arnulfo Arias, a native of that province. The sitting President, Rodolfo Chiari, ordered Torrijos to harass Arias's party members, to weaken his election bid. Torrijos passed this task on to Noriega, whose men arrested a number of people. Several prisoners said that they had been tortured; others stated they had been raped in prison. The brutality of Noriega's activities led to him being suspended for ten days, an item of information that was picked up by the U.S. intelligence services.\n\nAs a second lieutenant in 1966, Noriega spent many months taking courses at the School of the Americas. The school was located at the United States Army's Fort Gulick in the Panama Canal Zone. Dinges has suggested that Torrijos sent Noriega to the school to help him \"shape up\" and live up to Torrijos's expectations. Despite performing poorly in his classes, he received a promotion in 1966, and Torrijos found him a job as an intelligence officer in the \"North Zone\" of the National Guard. Shortly afterward he returned to the School of the Americas for more training. During the various times he spent there, Noriega participated in courses on infantry operations, counterintelligence, intelligence, and jungle warfare. He also took a course in psychological operations at Fort Bragg in North Carolina.\n\nNoriega's job required him to penetrate and disrupt the trade unions that had formed in the United Fruit Company's workforce, and he proved adept at this work. His new superior officer Boris Martínez was a fervent anti-communist, and enforced strict discipline on Noriega. Reports have suggested that he continued to pass intelligence to the U.S. during this period, about the plantation workers' activities. In 1967 the administration of U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson concluded that Noriega would be a valuable asset, as he was a \"rising star\" in the Panamanian military. Noriega maintained a close relationship with the School of the Americas during his Presidency, partly due to the latter's Panamanian outpost. Officials from the Panamanian military were frequently given courses at the school free of charge. Noriega was proud of his relationship with the school, and would wear its crest on his military uniform for the rest of his career.\n\nArnulfo Arias was elected president in 1968 following a populist campaign. Soon after taking office he launched a purge of the National Guard, sending much of its staff into \"diplomatic exile\" or retirement. In response, Torrijos and a few other officers led a coup against him, ousting him after an eleven-day presidency. A power struggle followed between the various forces involved in the coup, and chiefly between Torrijos and Martínez. Noriega was an important supporter of Torrijos during this conflict. When Arias's supporters launched a guerrilla uprising in his home province, Noriega as the head of intelligence played an important role in putting it down within a year.\n\nAt the end of 1969 Torrijos went to Mexico on holiday. A coup was launched in his absence, in which Noriega's loyalty allowed Torrijos to hang on to power, greatly enhancing Torrijos's image. Torrijos promoted Noriega to the position of lieutenant colonel and appointed him chief of military intelligence in August 1970: Noriega had gone from being a captain to a lieutenant colonel in just a year and a half, and according to Dinges, had left his undisciplined past behind him. Torrijos retained power as a military ruler until 1981: during this time he negotiated the Torrijos–Carter Treaties with U.S. President Jimmy Carter, which ensured that control over the Panama Canal would pass to Panama in 1999. These treaties, as well as a new labor code that included maternity leave, collective bargaining rights, and bonus pay, made Torrijos popular in Panama despite the absence of democratic elections. Galván writes that Torrijos's relationship with Noriega was symbiotic; Torrijos provided the political acumen, while Noriega enforced his unpopular decisions with force, when necessary. Noriega would provide intelligence, and carry out covert operations, that were critical to Torrijos successfully negotiating the release of the Panama Canal from the U.S.\n\nNoriega proved to be a very capable head of intelligence. In that position, he had 1300 Panamanians exiled whom he viewed as threats to the government. He also kept files on several officials within the military, the government, and the judiciary, later allowing him to blackmail them. He also held the positions of head of the political police, and head of immigration. His tenure was marked by intimidation and harassment of opposition parties and their leaders. He was described as doing much of Torrijos \"dirty work\". Journalist Frederick Kempe wrote in 1990 that Noriega had been linked to a series of bombings targeting U.S. territory that followed the administration of U.S. President Gerald Ford stepping back from negotiations about the Panama Canal during the prelude to the U.S. Presidential election in 1976. The bombings highlighted to the U.S. government the difficulty of holding on to the Panama Canal Zone in the face of hostility within Panama. Kempe stated that the U.S. knew of Noriega's involvement in the bombings but decided to turn a blind eye toward them. In a December 1976 meeting with George H. W. Bush, then the director of Central Intelligence, Noriega flatly denied involvement, instead suggesting that the CIA was responsible. Noriega also ordered the death of Hector Gallegos, a priest whose work at an agricultural cooperative was seen as a threat by the government: Gallegos's body is reported to have been thrown from helicopter into the sea.\n\nNoriega's relationship with the U.S. intelligence services was regularized during the 1970s, when he was on the CIA payroll; the CIA made its first regular payment to him in 1971. Previously he had been paid on a case-by-case basis. The CIA had valued him as an asset since the 1970s because he was willing to provide information about the Cuban government, and later about the Sandinista government in Nicaragua. On some occasions, the Panamanian embassy in Managua would be used by U.S. intelligence agents. Noriega was given access to CIA contingency funds, which he was supposed to use to improve his intelligence programs, but which he could spend with little accountability. The payments were as high as U.S. $100,000 in some years. However, the CIA was aware that Noriega was selling intelligence on the U.S. to Cuba at the same time. During negotiations for the Panama Canal treaties, the U.S. government ordered its military intelligence to wiretap Panamanian officials. Noriega discovered this operation in early 1976, and instead of making it public, bribed the U.S. agents and bought the tapes himself; the incident came to be known as the \"Singing Sergeants affair\". Although some intelligence officials wanted Bush to prosecute the soldiers involved, he declined to do so, because that would have exposed Noriega's role in the matter. The CIA did not report this incident to either the National Security Agency or the U.S. Justice Department. Noriega and Torrijos later used their knowledge of the U.S. wiretapping operations to tilt the Panama Canal negotiations in their favor.\n\nDinges wrote that in the early 1970s the U.S. Justice Department had enough evidence to bring an indictment of Noriega on drug charges in a U.S. court, but chose not to do so because of the diplomatic consequences involved. This evidence included the testimony of an arrested boat courier, and of a drug smuggler arrested in New York. Though Torrijos frequently promised the U.S. cooperation in dealing with drug smuggling, Noriega would have headed any effort at enforcement, and the U.S. began to see him as the real problem. Dinges writes that the U.S. government considered several options to move Noriega out of the drug trafficking business, including assassinating him, and linking him to a fictional plot against Torrijos. Though no assassination attempt was made, the other ploys may have been tried in the early 1970s, according to Dinges. Beginning in 1972, however, Dinges writes that the U.S. relaxed its efforts at trapping individuals involved with smuggling within the Panama government, possibly as a result of an agreement between Torrijos and U.S. president Richard Nixon. Moreover, during the same period Noriega was becoming a trusted ally of the CIA, including acting as the U.S. emissary to Cuba during negotiations following the \"Johnny Express\" incident. Noriega, too, made an effort during this period to portray Panama as a hub of enforcement against drug smuggling, possibly as a result of pressure from Torrijos. Noriega's drug-related activities came to the U.S. government's attention once again during the ratification process for the Panama Canal treaties, but were once again downplayed by the U.S. intelligence services in order to get the treaty ratified by the U.S. Senate.\n\nAfter the Nicaraguan Revolution was launched against U.S.-backed authoritarian ruler Anastasio Somoza Debayle in August 1978, Torrijos and Noriega initially supported the rebels, providing them with surplus National Guard equipment and allowing Panama to be used as a cover for arms shipments from Cuba to Nicaragua. Torrijos sought for himself the same aura of \"democratic respectability\" that the Sandinista rebels had in Nicaragua, and so abandoned the title of \"Maximum Leader\" he had taken in 1972, promising that elections would be held in 1984. Noriega also arranged for weapons shipments purchased in the U.S., a deal on which he too made a profit. The U.S. discovered Noriega's role in supplying weapons, and though the episode proved embarrassing to the administration of U.S. President Jimmy Carter, no charges were brought against Noriega because the U.S. did not wish to anger a friendly government, and the issue was rendered moot by the Sandinista victory in 1979. After Somoza's overthrow, Noriega continued to smuggle weapons, selling them to leftist guerrillas fighting the U.S.-backed authoritarian government in El Salvador. After one of these shipments was captured, Torrijos, who had friends in the Salvadoran military government, reprimanded Noriega, though the shipments did not stop altogether.\n\nTorrijos died in a plane crash on July 31, 1981. A later investigation by the aircraft manufacturer stated it was an accident; Noriega's authority over the government investigation led to speculation about his involvement. Florencio Flores Aguilar had inherited Torrijos position, but true power lay with the trio of Noriega, Díaz Herrera, and Rubén Darío Paredes, who ranked just below him. Flores was removed in a quiet coup on March 3, 1982, after which Paredes was made leader until 1983 by general agreement, after which the military would work together to ensure his election as the president in the election scheduled for 1984. During this period Noriega became a full Colonel and the National Guard's chief of staff, effectively the second-highest rank in the country. He reformed the National Guard as the Panama Defense Forces (PDF), and with the financial assistance of the U.S., expanded and modernized it. The quick promotions they received earned him the officer corps' loyalty. Among the steps he took to consolidate his control was to bring the various factions of the army together into the PDF. On August 12, 1983, in keeping with Noriega's earlier deal with Paredes, Paredes handed over his position to Noriega, newly appointed a General, with the understanding that Noriega would allow him to stand for President. However, Paredes never received the political support he expected, and after assuming his new position Noriega reneged on the deal, telling Paredes he could not contest the election. Noriega, now head of the PDF, thus became the \"de facto\" ruler of Panama.\n\nRather than become president, Noriega preferred to remain behind the scenes, and avoid the public scrutiny that came with the post. He did not have a particular social or economic ideology, and used military nationalism to unify his supporters. The Partido Revolucionario Democrático (Democratic Revolutionary Party, PRD), which had been established by Torrijos, was used by Noriega as a political front for the National Guard. Noriega compelled the Panamanian Congress to pass Law 20, which was supposedly aimed at protecting the Panama Canal from communists, and allowed a huge influx of U.S. weapons to the Panamanian military. The law also tripled the size of the military forces, and gave the National Guard control over immigration, customs, commercial transportation, railroads, and airports. Noriega's period in power saw significant capital flight from Panama; according to Kempe, this was at least in part because wealthy individuals worried their wealth would be seized by Noriega's administration.\n\nNoriega took control of most major newspapers by either buying a controlling stake in them, or by forcing them to shut down. The government also harassed, intimidated, or exiled individual journalists and editors. The newspaper \"La Prensa\", which remained independent and was frequently critical of Noriega, had its staff intimidated and its offices damaged; eventually, it too was forced to close. In May 1984, Noriega allowed the first presidential elections in 16 years. Noriega and Díaz Herrera picked Nicolás Ardito Barletta Vallarino to be the PRD's candidate, with the intention of keeping him under close control. When the initial results showed Arias, who had the support of much of the opposition, on his way to a landslide victory, Noriega halted the count. After brazenly manipulating the results, the government announced that Barletta had won by a slim margin of 1,713 votes. Independent estimates suggested that Arias would have won by as many as 50,000 votes had the election been conducted fairly. More than 60,000 votes were not included in the final count. The U.S. government was aware of this manipulation, but chose not to comment on it. Noriega's rule became increasingly repressive, even as the U.S. government of Ronald Reagan began relying on him in its covert efforts to undermine Nicaragua's Sandinista government. The U.S. accepted Barletta's election, and signaled a willingness to cooperate with him, despite recognizing the flaws in the election process.\n\nBy the early 1970s, American law enforcement officials had reports of Noriega's possible involvement with narcotics trafficking. No formal criminal investigations were begun, however, with news reports attributing the lack of action to factors including U.S. interest in concluding the Panama Canal treaty, the value of intelligence from Panama, and Panama's support for U.S. foreign policy.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, civil wars broke out in Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua. U.S. arms shipments to the area increased dramatically as a result, as did drug smuggling to the U.S., particularly of cocaine. In the 1980s Noriega's involvement with drug smuggling grew as well. Dinges wrote that Noriega frequently received large payments, sometimes as high as $100,000 per shipment, in return for the smugglers receiving immunity from prosecution. A report by the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency stated that Noriega held firm control over drug-related activities and money laundering through a group of close associates within the military. On June 12, 1986, investigative journalist Seymour Hersh published an article in \"The New York Times\" describing Noriega's involvement in drug smuggling and money laundering. Hersh recorded a U.S. White House official as saying that reducing Noriega's activities could greatly reduce international drug trafficking.\n\nIn addition to drug smuggling, Noriega's associates such as Floyd Carlton and Cesar Rodríguez also eventually became involved with money laundering: large sums from drug revenues were brought in from Miami and elsewhere to Panama for laundering, and Noriega received protection payments in these instances as well. American Steven Kalish also began a large scale business selling drugs, laundering money and selling hardware to the Panamanian military for large profits with Noriega's assistance. Dinges writes that in at the time of the 1984 election, Kalish was preparing to ship a load of marijuana worth U.S. $1.4 million through Panama, for which Noriega had agreed to provide false Panamanian customs stamps to help it avoid scrutiny in the U.S.; Noriega was to be paid $1 million for this exercise. However, beginning in 1984 Noriega appeared to reduce the scale of his operations, and even ordered a raid against a cocaine factory in the interior of Panama, a raid which he then emphasized as evidence of his cooperation with the U.S. in their fight against drugs. He also ordered a crackdown on money laundering by the Colombian cartel. Noriega's new image was symbolized by his being invited as a speaker in 1985 to Harvard University, for a conference on the role of the military in Central America's wars, a speech which received a lot of attention in Panama's pro-government press.\n\nNoriega began supplying weapons to the M-19 rebel group in Colombia in 1981. On one occasion, the PDF supplied weapons to a small band of M-19 fighters who flew to Panama from Cuba, before an attack on Colombia's west coast. According to some reports, the M-19 also asked Noriega to mediate their negotiations with Columbian drug cartels in February 1982. A 1990 book discussing Noriega's administration stated that he had sold 5000 Panamanian passports to the Cuban government for use by its intelligence services. Noriega's direct involvement in moving weapons and drugs declined in the early 1980s; instead, he invested in legal businesses, and used these as a cover for money laundering operations, much of which were related to the drug trade. The U.S. intelligence service believed Noriega to have amassed a personal fortune in European banks as a result of his illegal activities, as well as owning two homes in Panama and one in France.\n\nNoriega acted as a conduit for U.S. support to the Contra rebels in Nicaragua for many years, including funds and weapons. He allowed the CIA to establish listening posts in Panama, and also helped the U.S.-backed Salvadoran government against the leftist Salvadoran insurgent Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front. U.S. spy ships used bases in Panama in their operations against the Nicaraguan government, and much of the intelligence gathered by these ships was processed in the U.S. bases in Panama. Noriega permitted these activities despite the Panama Canal treaties restricting the use of the U.S. bases to protecting the canal.\n\nNoriega had a working relationship with U.S. Colonel Oliver North by 1985. Noriega offered to help North assassinate or sabotage Sandinista leaders in return for North helping Noriega improve his image with the U.S. government. In June 1985 Noriega agreed to train soldiers in Panama for an invasion of Nicaragua in 1986. Noriega has been reported to have played a role in the Iran–Contra affair in the mid-1980s, in which the proceeds of arms sales to Iran were smuggled to support the Contras. At Noriega's trial in 1991–92, the U.S. government stipulated that it had paid $322,000 to Noriega. Journalists and historians have suggested the figure was much higher: Kempe suggested $110,000 annually, while others have posited $200,000 per year. Kempe suggested that the budget provided to Noriega for his intelligence activities totaled $200,000 every year. These payments included $76,039 as \"gifts and incentives\" from the CIA. CIA director William Webster would nonetheless describe Noriega as an ally in the U.S. government's war on drugs. Officials in the Reagan administration stated that Noriega's drug-related activities had been overlooked because he was an ally of the U.S. in the conflicts in Central America. The U.S. was also concerned that any successor to Noriega would not tolerate the U.S. military's presence within Panama.\n\nA 1988 U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Terrorism, Narcotics and International Operations concluded: \"The saga of Panama's General Manuel Antonio Noriega represents one of the most serious foreign policy failures for the United States. Throughout the 1970s and the 1980s, Noriega was able to manipulate U.S. policy toward his country, while skillfully accumulating near-absolute power in Panama. It is clear that each U.S. government agency which had a relationship with Noriega turned a blind eye to his corruption and drug dealing, even as he was emerging as a key player on behalf of the Medellín Cartel (a member of which was notorious Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar).\" Noriega was allowed to establish \"the hemisphere's first 'narcokleptocracy'\". One of the large financial institutions that he was able to use to launder money was the Bank of Credit and Commerce International. In the 1988 U.S. presidential election, Democratic candidate Michael Dukakis highlighted this history in a campaign commercial attacking his opponent, Vice President (and former CIA Director) George H. W. Bush, for his close relationship with \"Panamanian drug lord Noriega\". Kempe argued in 1990 that the U.S. provided much of the training that allowed him to seize control of Panama, and called Noriega's relationship with the U.S. a \"sordid marriage of convenience\".\n\nHugo Spadafora was a physician and political activist who had first clashed with Noriega when they were both members of Torrijo's government. Though an ally of Torrijos, he and Noriega had been personal enemies for a long time. Despite not being a member of the opposition, he became a vocal critic of Noriega after returning to Panama from Guatemala in 1981. Spadafora amassed evidence of corruption within the government by using his position as an ally of Torrijos to question Noriega's allies, including Rodriquez and Carlton. This included a lengthy conversation with Carlton in mid-1985 after his drug operations had collapsed due to conflicts over a missing shipment, and he had received negative publicity in the Panamanian press. In September 1985 he accused Noriega of having connections to drug trafficking and announced his intent to return to Panama to oppose him. The drug trafficking charges threatened Noriega's support among his own constituency of middle class individuals who had benefited under his and Torrijos' government.\n\nAccording to writers R. M. Koster and Guillermo Sánchez, Spadafora returned to Panama on a bus from Costa Rica. After crossing the border, witnesses saw Spadafora removed from the bus by the PDF. His decapitated body was later found showing signs of brutal torture, wrapped in a United States Postal Service mail bag. Noriega was widely believed to be responsible for the murder, and according to Koster and Sánchez, the U.S. had intelligence implicating Noriega. On the day of Spadafora's arrest, the U.S. National Security Agency monitored a telephone conversation between Noriega and Luis Córdoba, the military commander in Chiriquí province where Spadafora was arrested. During the conversation Córdoba told Noriega, \"We have the rabid dog.\" Noriega responded \"And what does one do with a dog that has rabies?\" Spadafora's murder badly damaged Noriega's image, both within and outside Panama, and was among the reasons for the U.S. beginning to view Noriega as a liability rather than an asset, despite his ongoing support for U.S. interventions elsewhere.\n\nBarletta announced his intention to appoint an independent commission to investigate the murder while visiting New York City later in September. Upon his return to Panama, however, stepped down from the presidency after a confrontation with Noriega. He was replaced by Vice President Eric Arturo Delvalle. Barletta was highly regarded in the Reagan administration, and his removal brought a downturn in the relations between the U.S. and Noriega. The U.S. response included reducing economic assistance and pressuring Panama to reform its banking secrecy laws, crack down on narcotics trafficking, investigate the murder of Spadafora, and reduce the FDP's role in the government. \nWhile Noriega was out of the country, Díaz Herrera considered using the uproar around Spadafora to seize power, but despite mobilizing some troops, eventually decided against following through with the coup, realizing he could not count on sufficient support. Furthermore, Noriega had made a deal with his deputy, to the effect that he would step down as military leader in 1987 and allow Díaz Herrera to succeed him. In 1987, however, Noriega went back on this agreement, announced he would be heading the military for the next five years, and assigned Herrera to a diplomatic post. Díaz Herrera retaliated by making public statements accusing Noriega of rigging the 1984 election, murdering Spadafora, and of trafficking in drugs, as well as of assassinating Torrijo with a bomb on his plane. These statements provoked huge protests against Noriega, with 100,000 people, approximately 25% of the population of Panama City, marching in protest on June 26, 1987. Noriega charged Herrera with treason, and cracked down hard on the protesters. The U.S. Senate passed a resolution asking Noriega to step down until Herrera could be tried; in response Noriega sent government workers to protest outside the U.S. embassy, a protest which quickly turned into a riot. As a result, the U.S. suspended all military assistance to Panama, and the CIA stopped paying Noriega a salary. The Senate resolution had the effect of identifying the U.S. with the effort to remove Noriega; Noriega exploited the rising anti-American sentiment to strengthen his own position. Without the support of the U.S., Panama defaulted on its international debt, and that year the country's economy shrunk by 20%. However, though the U.S. considered not recognizing the new president, the state department decided not to do so, as that would amount to breaking relations with Noriega.\n\nNoriega's relationship with the U.S. deteriorated further during the late 1980s, particularly after the U.S. began to suspect that Noriega was lending his support to other intelligence services and drug-trafficking groups. Hersh wrote in 1986 that U.S. intelligence officials suspected Noriega of selling intelligence to the Cuban government of Fidel Castro; his report received widespread attention. Bob Woodward published a story on Noriega in \"The Washington Post\" soon after, going into even greater detail about Noriega's intelligence connections. Woodward and Hersh's reputations made certain that the stories were taken seriously. Spadafora had also informed the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration of some of his findings about Noriega' involvement in smuggling. Multiple agencies investigated Noriega in the U.S., continuing despite opposition from the Reagan administration. In 1988 Noriega was indicted in a U.S. court on charges of drug-trafficking. The indictment accused him of \"turning Panama into a shipping platform for South American cocaine destined for the U.S., and allowing drug proceeds to be hidden in Panamanian banks.\" Soon afterward an army Colonel and a few soldiers made an attempt to overthrow Noriega; their poorly planned effort was crushed within a day.\n\nThe presidential elections of May 1989 were marred by fraud and violence. COLINA, a pro-military coalition led by the PRD, named Carlos Duque, a former business partner of Noriega as its candidate. ADOC, an opposition coalition, nominated Guillermo Endara, a member of Arias' Panameñista Party, and two other prominent oppositionists, Ricardo Arias Calderón and Guillermo Ford, as vice-presidential candidates. Anticipating fraud, the opposition tracked ballot counts at local precincts on the day of the election (local ballot counts were done in public). As an exit poll made it clear that the opposition slate was winning by a wide margin, reports of missing tally sheets and seizures of ballot boxes by PDF soon emerged. In the afternoon of the day after the election, the Catholic Bishops conference announced that a quick count of public tallies at polling centers showed the opposition slate winning 3-to-1. Official tallies the day after that, however, had Duque winning by a 2–1 margin.\n\nRather than publish the results, Noriega voided the election, claiming \"foreign interference\" had tainted the results. Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, present in Panama as an observer, denounced Noriega, saying the election had been \"stolen\", as did Bishop Marcos G. McGrath. He had initially planned to declare Duque the winner regardless of the actual result. However, Duque knew he had been badly defeated and refused to go along. The next day, Endara, Arias Calderón, and Ford rolled through the old part of the capital in a triumphant motorcade, only to be intercepted by a detachment of Noriega's paramilitary Dignity Battalions. Arias Calderón was protected by a couple of troops, but Endara and Ford were badly beaten. Images of Ford running to safety with his guayabera shirt covered in blood were broadcast around the world. When the 1984–89 presidential term expired, Noriega named a longtime associate, Francisco Rodríguez, as acting president. The U.S. recognized Endara as the new president. Noriega's decision to void the election results led to another coup attempt against him in October 1989. A number of Noriega's junior officers rose up against him, but the rebellion was easily crushed by the members of the Defense Forces loyal to Noriega. After this attempt, he declared himself the \"maximum leader\" of the country. The rebels were captured and taken to a military base outside Panama City, where they were tortured and then executed.\n\nIn March 1988, the U.S. government entered into negotiations with Noriega seeking his resignation. After lengthy and inconclusive talks, the negotiations collapsed a few months later; according to Dinges, Noriega had no intentions of ever resigning. On December 15, 1989, the PRD-dominated legislature spoke of \"a state of war\" between the United States and Panama. It also declared Noriega \"chief executive officer\" of the government, formalizing a state of affairs that had existed for six years. The U.S. government stated that Noriega's forces were engaging in routine harassment of U.S. troops and civilians. Three incidents in particular occurred very near the time of the invasion, and were mentioned by Bush as a reason for the invasion. In a December 16 incident, four U.S. personnel were stopped at a roadblock outside PDF headquarters in the El Chorrillo neighborhood of Panama City. The United States Department of Defense said that the servicemen were traveling unarmed in a private vehicle, and that they attempted to flee the scene only after their vehicle was surrounded by a crowd of civilians and PDF troops. Robert Paz of the United States Marine Corps was shot and killed in the incident. An American couple who witnessed the incident were also arrested and harassed by the PDF.\n\nThe U.S. launched its invasion of Panama on December 20, 1989. Although the killing of the Marine was the ostensible reason for the invasion, the operation had been planned for months before his death. The move was the largest military action by the U.S. since the Vietnam War, and included more than 27,000 soldiers, as well as 300 aircraft. The Bush administration considered lighter assaults using fewer troops, but decided against them. The U.S. forces targeted Noriega's personal private vehicles. Several slums in the middle of Panama City were destroyed in the U.S. bombing campaign. The day after the invasion, Noriega's deputy Colonel Luis del Cid retreated with some soldiers to the mountains outside David City, after laying mines in the airport. Though this was part of a contingency plan for the invasion, del Cid quickly decided that the Panamanian military was not in a position to fight a guerrilla war against the U.S., and negotiated a surrender. The number of U.S. soldiers that were killed in the operation was between 23 and 60; 300 soldiers were injured. Casualties among the Panamanian forces were much higher; between 300 and 845. A large number of civilians were killed in the invasion: the precise figure is a matter of debate. The U.S. government reported between 202 and 250 civilian deaths; Americas Watch estimated 300 civilian deaths; the United Nations estimated 500 civilian deaths and former United States Attorney General Ramsey Clark estimated that 3,000 civilians were killed.\n\nOn December 29, the United Nations General Assembly voted, 75–20 with 40 abstentions, to condemn the invasion as a \"flagrant violation of international law\". The invasion was followed by widespread looting, as the Panamanian police stood by; Kempe reported that the looters caused half a billion U.S. dollars in damages, which the U.S. government later helped repair. Overall, the invasion would cause U.S. $1.5 billion in property damage. According to a CBS poll, 92% of Panamanian adults supported the U.S. incursion, and 76% wished that U.S. forces had invaded in October during the coup. Activist Barbara Trent disputed this finding, saying in a 1992 Academy Award-winning documentary \"The Panama Deception\" that the Panamanian surveys were completed in wealthy, English-speaking neighborhoods in Panama City, among Panamanians most likely to support U.S. actions. Human Rights Watch described the reaction of the civilian population to the invasion as \"generally sympathetic\".\n\nNoriega received several warnings about the invasion from individuals within his government; though he initially disbelieved them, they grew more frequent as the invasion drew near, eventually convincing Noriega to go on the run. Noriega used a number of subterfuges, including lookalikes and playbacks of his recorded voice, to confuse U.S. surveillance as to his whereabouts. During his flight Noriega reportedly took shelter with several supportive politicians, including Balbina Herrera, the mayor of San Miguelito. The last two days of his flight were spent partly with Noriega's ally Jorge Krupnick. Kempe reported that Noriega considered seeking sanctuary in the Cuban or Nicaraguan embassies, but both buildings were surrounded by U.S. troops. On the fifth day of the invasion, Noriega and four others took sanctuary in the Apostolic Nunciature, the Holy See's embassy in Panama. Having threatened to flee to the countryside and lead guerrilla warfare if not given refuge, he instead turned over the majority of his weapons, and requested sanctuary from José Sebastián Laboa, the papal representative.\n\nPrevented by treaty from invading the Holy See's embassy, U.S. soldiers from Delta Force erected a perimeter around the Nunciature. Psychological warfare specialists were brought in to attempt to dislodge him, including blaring rock music, and turning a nearby field into a helicopter landing zone. After ten days, Noriega surrendered on January 3, 1990. He was detained as a prisoner of war, and later taken to the United States.\n\nFollowing his capture Noriega was transferred to a cell in the Miami federal courthouse, where he was arraigned on the ten charges which the Miami grand jury had returned two years earlier. The start of the trial was delayed until September 1991 due to complex legal maneuvering over whether Noriega could be tried after his detention as a prisoner of war, the admissibility of evidence and witnesses, and how to pay for Noriega's legal defense. The trial ended in April 1992, when Noriega was convicted on eight of the ten charges of drug trafficking, racketeering, and money laundering.\n\nIn pre-trial proceedings, the government stipulated that Noriega had received $322,000 from the U.S. Army and the CIA. Noriega insisted that he had in fact been paid close to $10,000,000, and that he should be allowed to testify about the work he had done for the U.S. government. The district court held that information about the operations in which Noriega had played a part supposedly in return for payment from the U.S. was not relevant to his defense. It ruled that \"the tendency of such evidence to confuse the issues before the jury substantially outweighed any probative value it might have had.\" One of the witnesses in the trial was Floyd Carlton, who had previously flown shipments of drugs for Noriega.\n\nInformation about Noriega's connections to the CIA, including his relationship with Oliver North and his alleged contact with Bush, were kept out of the trial. After the trial, Noriega appealed this exclusionary ruling by the judge to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. The Court of Appeals ruled in the government's favor, despite disagreeing with the lower court. It said: \"Our review leads us to conclude that information regarding the purposes for which the United States previously paid Noriega potentially had some probative value;... Thus, the district court may have overstated the case when it declared evidence of the purposes for which the United States allegedly paid Noriega wholly irrelevant to his defense\". The Court of Appeals refused to set aside the verdict because it felt that \"the potential probative value of this material, however, was relatively marginal\". On July 10, 1992, Noriega was sentenced to 40 years in prison.\n\nBefore receiving his permanent prison assignment, Noriega was placed in the Federal Detention Center, Miami, facility. Noriega resided in the Federal Correctional Institution, Miami, in an unincorporated area of Dade County, Florida, and had the Federal Bureau of Prisons ID number 38699-079. Under Article 85 of the Third Geneva Convention, Noriega was considered a prisoner of war, despite his conviction for acts committed prior to his capture by the \"detaining power\" (the US). This status meant that he had his own prison cell, furnished with electronics and exercise equipment. His cell had been nicknamed \"the presidential suite\".\n\nIt was reported that Noriega had been visited by evangelical Christians, who claimed that he had become a born again Christian. On May 15 and 16, 1990, while Noriega still awaited trial, Clift Brannon, a former attorney turned preacher, and a Spanish interpreter, Rudy Hernandez, were allowed to visit Noriega for a total of six hours at the Metropolitan Correctional Center of Dade County, Florida. Following the visit, Noriega wrote Brannon a letter thanking him, and stating that his visit had been like \"a dream, a revelation\", and that \"receiving our Lord Jesus Christ as Savior guided by you\" had been an emotional moment for him. Noriega's prison sentence was reduced from 30 years to 17 years for good behavior. After serving 17 years in detention and imprisonment, his sentence ended on September 9, 2007.\n\nThe French government requested Noriega's extradition after he was convicted of money laundering in 1999. The French claimed that Noriega had laundered in drug proceeds by purchasing luxury apartments in Paris. Noriega was convicted \"in absentia\", but French law requires a new trial after the subject of an \"in absentia\" sentence is apprehended. He faced up to 10 years in French prison if convicted. France had previously made Noriega a \"Commandeur\" of the Légion d'honneur in 1987.\n\nIn August 2007, a U.S. federal judge approved the French government's request to extradite Noriega to France after his release. Noriega appealed his extradition because he claimed France would not honor his legal status as a prisoner of war. In 1999, the Panamanian government sought the extradition of Noriega to face murder charges in Panama because he had been found guilty \"in absentia\" in 1995 and sentenced to 20 years in prison.\n\nOn February 20, 2010, Noriega's lawyers filed a petition with the Supreme Court of the United States to block his extradition to France, after the court refused to hear his appeal the previous month. Noriega's attorneys had hoped the dissenting opinion in that ruling, written by Justices Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia, would convince the full court to take up his case, but on March 22, 2010, the Supreme Court refused to hear the petition. Two days after the refusal, the District Court for the Southern District of Florida in Miami lifted the stay that was blocking Noriega's extradition. Later that month Noriega's attorney stated that he would travel to France and try to arrange a deal with the French government.\n\nNoriega was extradited to France on April 26, 2010. Noriega's lawyers claimed the La Santé Prison, at which he was held, was unfit for a man of his age and rank; the French government refused to grant him prisoner of war status, which he had in the United States. On July 7, 2010, Noriega was convicted by the 11th chamber of the Tribunal Correctionnel de Paris and sentenced to seven years in jail. The prosecutor in the case had sought a ten-year prison term. In addition, the court ordered the seizure of €2.3 million (approximately U.S. $3.6 million) that had long been frozen in Noriega's French bank accounts.\n\nPanama asked France to extradite Noriega so he could face trial for human rights violations in Panama. The French government had previously stated that extradition would not happen before the case in France had run its course. On September 23, 2011, United States and a French court ordered a conditional release for Noriega to be extradited to Panama on October 1, 2011. Noriega was extradited to Panama on December 11, 2011, and incarcerated at El Renacer prison to serve time for crimes committed during his rule.\n\nOn February 5, 2012, Noriega was moved to the Hospital Santo Tomas because of high blood pressure and a brain hemorrhage. He remained in the hospital for four days before being returned to prison. It was announced on March 21, 2012, that Noriega was diagnosed with a brain tumor, which was later revealed to have been benign. On January 23, 2017, he was released from prison and placed under house arrest to prepare for surgery that would remove the tumor. On March 7, 2017, he suffered a brain hemorrhage during surgery which left him in a critical condition in the intensive care unit of Santo Tomas hospital in Panama City.\n\nNoriega died on May 29, 2017, at the age of 83. Panamanian President Juan Carlos Varela announced Noriega's death on Twitter shortly before midnight, writing, \"The death of Manuel A. Noriega closes a chapter in our history; his daughters and his relatives deserve to bury him in peace.\" His wife and three daughters were all alive at the time of his death.\n\nNoriega's rule in Panama has been frequently described as a dictatorship, while Noriega is often referred to as a \"strongman\". A 2017 obituary stated that Noriega \"was an opportunist who used his close relationship with the United States to boost his own power in Panama and to cover the illegal activities for which he was eventually convicted.\" A 2010 article in \"The Guardian\" referred to him as the best known dictator of his time, and as \"Panama's answer\" to Libyan leader Colonel Muammar Gaddafi\". Dinges writes that though Noriega's regime saw a number of murders and crimes, they were similar in scale to those that occurred under the authoritarian governments in Guatemala, Chile, and Argentina, and El Salvador at the same time; these governments never saw the level of condemnation from the U.S. as Noriega did.\n\nAn article in \"The Atlantic\" after Noriega's death compared Noriega to Castro and Augusto Pinochet, stating that while Castro had been the nemesis of the U.S., and Pinochet had been its ally, Noriega had managed to be both. It called Noriega the archetype of U.S. intervention in Latin America: \"The lawless, vicious leader whom the U.S. cultivated and propped up despite clear and serious flaws.\" The author stated that although Panama was a freer democracy for Noriega's removal, it was still plagued by corruption and drug trafficking, while Daniel Ortega, who the U.S. tried to fight with Noriega's help, remained firmly in power in Nicaragua, and argued that this demonstrated the failure of the U.S.'s approach to Latin American interventions. Similarly, authors Alexander Cockburn and Jeffrey St-Clair stated that despite Noriega's overthrow, Panama's importance in the illegal drug trade continued to grow.\n\nNoriega took great care to shape perceptions of himself. He permitted and encouraged rumors that as the chief of intelligence, he was in possession of negative information about everybody in the country. Dinges suggests that the impression among some officials that Noriega made money off of every transaction in the country may have been cultivated by Noriega himself. Among opposition leaders in Panama he was seen variously as a sexual pervert, as a sadist, and a rapist. Within U.S. government circles contradictory images abounded; Noriega was seen as a CIA spy, a drug trafficker, a nationalist supporting Torrijos, an ally of Cuba, and an ally of Oliver North and the Contras. He was perceived as a trusted collaborator in the war against drugs, even as the DEA was investigating him for involvement in smuggling. By the time of his removal he had come to be hated in the U.S., and the invasion was portrayed as an attempt to remove an evil man. Dinges writes that these contradictory images played a large role in the U.S. government's self-contradictory policy towards Noriega.\n\nNoriega used the moniker \"El Man\" to refer to himself, but was also known by the nickname \"Pineapple Face\", a name which Noriega detested, and which would be the subject of a later lawsuit. He had a lavish lifestyle during his time as the \"de facto\" ruler of Panama, described in an obituary as a \"libertine life off drug-trade riches, complete with luxurious mansions, cocaine-fueled parties and voluminous collections of antique guns.\" His bravado during public speeches was remarked upon by commentators; for instance, after his indictment by the U.S., he made a public speech while brandishing a machete, and declaiming \"Not one step back!\" The attitude of machismo that Noriega adopted has been described as a reaction to the persecution his brother Luis faced as an openly homosexual man in Panama and Peru. This image contrasted sharply with the impact of a mug shot taken of him after his capture, and which became a symbol of his fall from power. He was reported to have been a deeply superstitious man, who placed trust in a number of talismans he carried with him.\n\nBritish actor Bob Hoskins portrayed Manuel Noriega in the biographical 2000 American television movie \"\". The film was described as a \"political drama with profound stakes\", that was nonetheless depicted with \"wild humor\". A reviewer wrote that \"the hair-raising career of deposed Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega surpassed even the surreal creations of many Latin American novelists, thus making him a natural movie subject\". Hoskins was nominated for a Satellite Award for his role in the film.\n\nNoriega was depicted in the video game \"\". In July 2014, he filed a lawsuit against game company Activision for depicting him and using his name without his permission. Noriega, who filed the suit while in prison for murder, claims he is portrayed as \"a kidnapper, murderer and enemy of the state\". In the game, the fictional character Frank Woods refers to Noriega as \"Old Pineapple Face\", a nickname originally applied to the President by Panamanians. On October 28, 2014, the case against Activision was dismissed by a judge in California.\n\nHe is referenced in the season 1 episode 5 of the documentary \"Dictators Rulebook\", by National Geographic.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53039081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53039081", "title": "Matilde Malenchini", "text": "Matilde Malenchini\n\nMatilde Malenchini, née Meoni (3 December 1779, Livorno – 8 September 1858, Fiesole) was an Italian portrait and genre painter in the Academic style.\n\nIn 1796, she married Vincenzo Francesco Malenchini, a painter and musician. Although they soon separated, she retained his name for the rest of her life. In 1807, she entered the Accademia di Belle Arti di Firenze, where she studied under the guidance of Pietro Benvenuti. During these years, for practice and for pay, she copied the works by old Italian and Dutch masters at the Uffizi Gallery. In 1811, she received a four-year annual stipend from Elisa Bonaparte to study in Rome at the \"Pontificia Accademia romana delle belle arti di San Luca\".\n\nWhile there, she made the acquaintance of the French Governor of the Papal States, General François de Miollis, who was also an art collector. He eventually purchased eighteen of her works and helped her establish a studio in the convent of Trinità dei Monti. She focused on painting church interiors and worked with scholarship students from the Académie Française who were living at the Villa Medici. In 1815, she was named a \"Professor of Merit\" at the Accademia di San Luca. \n\nShe also met the Belgian writer, Louis de Potter, with whom she had a long and intense relationship. From 1817 to 1819, they both shared a home with the painter François-Joseph Navez. They attempted to obtain an annulment of her previous marriage by appealing to the Roman Curia, but their requests coincided with some scandalous trials involving monks and nuns, which made the Curia unusually cautious. To complicate matters, her husband, who supported the request, had problems with the police. \n\nIn 1820, Matilde was forced to leave Rome and settled in Florence. The following year, she was named an Honorary Professor at the Accademia. De Potter returned to Bruges in 1823 to attend to his ailing father. In 1824, after his father's death, De Potter moved to Brussels and invited Malenchini to join him. Their home became a meeting place for expatriate Italians and political refugees. Together with their friend, Navez, they organized painting classes. He also became a prominent advocate for Belgian independence.\n\nShe soon became restless, travelled continuously, and finally returned to Florence. De Potter, frustrated at being unable to marry, decided to end the relationship in 1826. The following year, he married Sophie van Weydeveldt (1808-1896), with whom he had four children. Realizing that this would leave her in serious financial difficulties, he agreed to give her an annual pension of 1,200 Francs.\n\nDue to De Potter's political problems, including 18 months in prison for a pamphlet denouncing King William I and exile in Germany, the pension was unsteady until after the Belgian Revolution when De Potter became a member of the Provisional Government. She turned to painting portraits as a way of making up the difference. There was no contact between them until 1854, following the death of his son Eleuthère, when he wrote her an affectionate letter.\n\nIn 1855, at the age of seventy-six, she was accused of pushing one of her maids out of a window when the maid was caught stealing. She was defended by the noted lawyer, , but was sentenced to three and a half years of detention. The ruling was overturned shortly after, but reinstated in 1857. One of her last paintings depicts the interior of the prison in Florence.\n"}
{"id": "29560603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29560603", "title": "Melek Ahmed Pasha", "text": "Melek Ahmed Pasha\n\nMelek Ahmed Pasha (\"Ahmed Pasha the Angel\"; 1604–1662) was an Ottoman statesman and grand vizier during the reign of Mehmed IV.\n\nHe was of Abkhaz (or Abazin) origin. According to one source, his father was a sea captain named Pervane. During the reign of Murad IV, he was appointed as the governor of Diyarbakır. During Ibrahim's reign, he was appointed to the governorships of Erzurum, Mosul, Aleppo and Damascus. In 1644, he married to Kaya Sultan, Murad's daughter, and gained the title \"damat\" (groom). But all of the provinces (even Erzurum a part of Turkey) he was assigned, were quite far from Istanbul, the capital, and during most of his assignments, his wife stayed in Istanbul. During the reign of Mehmed IV, he finally returned to Istanbul as a vizier. But in 1650, to the dismay of his wife, he was appointed as the governor of Baghdad, another post far from Istanbul. Kaya Sultan tried to persuade the queen regent to revoke the decision. But she couldn't succeed, a sign of the chaos in Ottoman palace. Nevertheless, before Melek Ahmed left Istanbul, the Grand Vizier Kara Murat Pasha resigned, complaining of the intrigues of the palace people. The queen regent offered the post to Melek Ahmed, who accepted the offer on the condition that the palace people would not meddle with the governance of the state on 5 August 1650.\n\nHe was the brother-in-law of the Haydarzade Mehmed Pasha, the Ottoman governor of Egypt from 1646 to 1647, who married his sister.\n\nWhen Melek Ahmed took office, he realized that the empire was almost bankrupt. The Cretan War (1645–1669) was very costly, and tax revenues from Anatolia were much less than the expected amount because of the Jelali revolts. He attempted to balance the budget, but without a real knowledge of financial affairs, his economic measures worsened the economy instead of improving it. Among his measures was the debasing of coinage by reducing the gold content. This caused reactions among both the merchants and the soldiers, whose salaries were paid by the new coins. The sultan was forced to relieve him of his post on 22 August 1651.\n\nAfter 1651, he was again assigned as a provincial governor, but this time in Silistra (now in Bulgaria), much closer to capital. Soon, he was able to return to Istanbul. In 1654, Mustafa İbşir Pasha had been appointed as the Grand Vizier, but delayed his arrival in Istanbul. During this period, Melek Ahmed functioned as his deputy. This aroused İbşir Pasha's suspicions, and Melek Ahmed was exiled to Van and Malkara. However, after İbşir Pasha was deposed, Melek Ahmed Pasha was able to regain his former titles. After working in some provinces in the European part of the empire, he was married for a second time to Fatma Sultan (the daughter of the late sultan Ahmed I) in 1662. According to Evliya Çelebi, the marriage was unhappy and forced upon both parties; Fatma Sultan reportedly threatened Melek Ahmed Pasha with divorce and the withdrawal of her dowry (which was reportedly worth an entire year's tax revenue from the Egypt Eyalet).\n\nMelek Ahmed Pasha died in 1662, only months after marrying Fatma Sultan.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, the minting of devalued coinage continued after 1651 and provided the major reason for a wide-scale rebellion, the Çınar Incident, in 1656.\n\nAlthough not a particularly successful Grand Vizier, details about both Melek Ahmed Pasa and his wife Kaya Sultan (as well as his later marriage to Fatma Sultan) are well known because of Evliya Çelebi's books. Evliya Çelebi was one of the most important Turkish travel writers of his time, and his mother was the milk-sister of Melek Ahmed Pasha, and Evliya Çelebi used this opportunity to travel with Melek Ahmed Pasha.\n\n"}
{"id": "1618642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1618642", "title": "Metal theft", "text": "Metal theft\n\nMetal theft is \"the theft of items for the value of their constituent metals\". It usually increases when worldwide prices for scrap metal rise, as has happened dramatically due to rapid industrialization in India and China. Apart from precious metals like gold and silver, the metals most commonly stolen are non-ferrous metals such as copper, aluminium, brass, and bronze. However, even cast iron and steel are seeing higher rates of theft due to increased scrap metal prices.\n\nOne defining characteristic of metal theft is the motivation. Whereas other items are generally stolen for their extrinsic value, items involved in metal theft are stolen for their intrinsic value as raw material or commodities. Thefts often have negative consequences much greater than the value of the metal stolen, such as the destruction of valuable statues, power interruptions, and the disruption of railway traffic.\n\nScrap metal has drastically increased in price over recent years. In 2001, ferrous scrap sold for $77 a ton, increasing to $300/ton by 2004. In 2008, it hit nearly $500/ton.\n\nSome elected officials and law enforcement officials have concluded that many metal thefts are by drug addicts stealing metal in order to fund their addictions. Some officials believe that many of these drug-related metal thefts are caused by methamphetamine users; however, this varies by the location of the metal being stolen. Another explanation for the phenomenon is the unusually high price of non-ferrous metals coupled with elevated levels of unemployment. Regardless of the reason, the industrialization of developing nations helps to increase the demand for scrap metal.\n\nIn the fourth quarter of 2008, world market prices for metals like copper, aluminium, and platinum dropped steeply. Although there is anecdotal evidence that this price decrease has led to fewer metal thefts, strong empirical research on the exact nature of the relationship between commodity prices and metal thefts is still lacking. Some have argued that the \"genie is out of the bottle\" now and drops in commodity prices will not result in corresponding drops in thefts. In fact, it is possible that thefts may actually increase to compensate for the loss in value.\n\nAs of December 2014 according to The National Insurance Crime Bureau the number of insurance claims for metal theft has been decreasing in the U.S possibly because of dropping scrap metal prices.\n\n in the United States alone, metal theft costs the US economy $1 billion annually, according to Department of Energy estimates. As of 2008 It was estimated that South Africa lost approximately 5 billion Rand annually due to metal theft. As of 2008 metal theft was the fastest growing crime in the UK with the annual damage to industry estimated at £360m. Thieves often cause damage far in excess of the value they recover by selling stolen metal as scrap. For example, thieves who strip copper plumbing and electrical wiring from houses render the residences uninhabitable without expensive, time-consuming repairs.\n\nRequiring scrap metal buyers to record the photo IDs of scrap metal sellers, and record scrap metal transactions may reduce the rate of metal theft. Paying scrap metal sellers by check rather than cash may reduce the rate of metal theft. Utility companies who are often the targets of metal theft can electroplate coding on to copper wire, which can positively identify the wire as stolen even if the insulation is burned off.\n\nAnything made of metal has value as scrap metal, and can be stolen:\n\nIn Australia in 2008, 8 tonnes of copper wiring, believed to be stolen from a variety of locations including rail tracks, power stations and scrap metal depots, was seized on its way to the Asian black market.\n\nIn November 2011 a person tried to hand-saw a hot electrical line in a subway tunnel in Vienna. A fire arose; train traffic was stopped. The thief was probably hurt. In November 2015 a man burnt to death in Vienna in an empty building, one which had a 100 kV cable that went through the basement. The police found three people alive and assumed that they had been attempting to steal copper.\nIn May 2013 the Westbahn near Amstetten had to be closed for safety reasons; grounding copper wires had been stolen; The copper stolen was worth €2,000, but total damages to the station cost upwards of €30,000.\nIn July 2013 in Lower Austria () of copper wire worth less than €1,000 was stolen from a railway transformer station. The damage to the railways electronics cost €140,000.\nIn May 2016, police caught several people that had stolen several tons of copper wire from a substation and caused 400,000 € worth of damage in Lower Austria.\n\nIn Quebec, during May 2006, thieves stole sections of copper roofing, gutters and wiring from four Quebec city churches, two being St. Charles de Limoilou and St. Francois d'Assise. The thieves were discovered in action on their third night, whereupon they fled. High copper prices are believed to be the reason for the thefts. Repairs were expected to cost more than $40,000.\n\nIn October 2010, a bronze bell was stolen in Shelburne County, Nova Scotia. Thieves removed the bell from a monument in Roseway Cemetery. The bell was part of the Roseway United Memorial Church, built in 1912, until it was demolished in 1993. It was recovered in a Halifax-area scrapyard October 6, 2010.\n\nIn September 2011, Peterborough, Ontario, experienced a four-hour power outage north of the city when thieves stole power transmission wires.\n\n327 bronze markers stolen from Theresienstadt concentration camp cemetery in mid-April 2008, with 700 more stolen the next week. A scrap metal dealer was arrested on April 18, 2008. He intended to melt them down for their copper.\n\nA ten-tonne footbridge and of railway trackage, from the town of Horní Slavkov in the Karlovy Vary Region was dismantled and removed by a gang of thieves who presented forged papers saying that the bridge had been condemned. The bridge was erected in 1901.\n\nThe French railway network company RFF face regular thefts of metal that affect the operation of the trains.\n\nIn February 2006, near the German city of Weimar, thieves dismantled and carted away some of disused rail track, causing at least 200,000 euros worth of damage.\nIn June 2012, a semi-burnt man was found after midnight beneath a street in or near Wilhelmsburg, Germany. At a nearby train track, 3 km of overhead contact wire had been torn down, the theft apparently unfinished.\nIn April 2016, a cast bronze owl was stolen from the grave of a 2 year old child in Rommerkirchen. The €800 sculpture far exceeds the €20 scrap value.\n\nIn Haiti, after the 2010 Haiti earthquake, some looters were reported to be removing rebar from the concrete of collapsed buildings in order to sell it. Others hacked up downed power lines.\n\nIn the city of Calcutta, India more than 10,000 manhole covers were taken in two months. These were replaced with concrete covers, but these were also stolen, this time for the rebar inside them.\n\nIn 2016, the sewers in Medan Merdeka avenue near National Monument, Central Jakarta, was discovered had been clogged with 10 truck loads of rubber-PVC cable jacket, causing flood in the area. Then it was discovered that the cables belongs to PT Telkom or PT PLN, state-owned telecommunication and electricity provider. The cable jacket was left clogging the sewer, while the metal thieves stole the inner copper wires.\n\nSeveral war graves in the Java Sea were discovered to have been removed by metal scavengers. The wrecks of , , and had been totally removed. A sizable portion of was also scavenged.\n\nThe wrecks of , , and were also missing.\n\nOn 11 January 2011, the theft of of copper cable caused an ICE train to derail near the Dutch city of Zevenaar. Nobody was harmed.\n\nIn 2001, thieves in Khabarovsk Krai stole electric and telephone lines leading to military bases there. A small bridge was stolen in Russia in 2007, when a man chopped up its 5-meter span and hauled it away.\n\nMetal theft in South Africa is rampant, with an estimated R5 billion per annum lost due to the theft. The stolen metal ranges from copper cables, piping, bolts to manhole covers. The theft continuously disrupts and degrades services, such as the power supply provided by Eskom and the telecommunication services by Telkom. Eskom estimated that the theft has cost the company about R25 million per annum, with incidents increasing from 446 incidents in 2005; 1,059 in 2007 and 1,914 in 2008. The theft has cost Telkom R863 million (April 2007 – January 2008 period). Despite the minimal copper reserve South Africa has, as much as 3000 tonnes of copper leave Cape Town harbour every month. Aside from the economic impact, the theft also impacted people's lives, this includes the death of six children due to theft of manhole covers (2004–2008 figures). The theft of copper cables is a serious problem in Gauteng.\n\nIn February 2004, thieves in western Ukraine dismantled and stole an long, one-tonne steel bridge that spanned the river Svalyavka. In September 2009, smugglers attempted to make off with 25 tons of radioactive scrap metal from the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone. The Security Service of Ukraine caught them.\n\nSignificant rises in metal theft were observed during 2006–2007 in the UK, especially in North East England, where metal theft was still on the rise .\n\nIn the UK, the British Metals Recycling Association is working with authorities such as the Association of Chief Police Officers and the British Transport Police to halt the problem of metal being stolen from its members' sites and to identify stolen materials. Also see Operation Tremor.\n\nRoofs, manhole covers, statues etc. have all been increasingly targeted recently due to the rising cost of metal. Most of the time metal is sold for scrap, but occasionally it is used by the thieves themselves. There have been many stories of metal theft; a bronze statue of former Olympic champion Steve Ovett disappeared from Preston Park in Brighton and church bells in Devon were stolen by thieves. A statue made by Henry Moore and estimated to be worth £300,000 was stolen from a museum in 2006, and believed to have been melted down for its scrap value of around £5,000. Churches, especially older churches, suffer as 'lead theft' from church (and other) roofs is on the rise.\nIn late 2011 the police began a number of crackdowns on metal theft, the largest in South Yorkshire resulting in at least 22 arrests and the seizure of amateur smelting equipment. In August 2012, thieves stole 26 metal cages from an animal hospital in Kibworth, Leicestershire. Cages containing sick or injured animals were emptied by the thieves, leading to the death of eight animals and the escape of several others. The cages were worth about £30,000. Theft of copper cable by the side of railway tracks has also become increasingly a problem, and results in train stoppages as well as creating serious safety issues both for the perpetrators and the traveling public.\n\nIn Boston during the summer of 2008, two state employees stole of decorative iron trim that had been removed from the Longfellow Bridge for refurbishment and sold it for scrap. The men, one of whom was a Department of Conservation and Recreation district manager, were charged with receiving $12,147 for the historic original parapet coping. The estimated cost to remake the pieces, scheduled for replication by 2012, was over $500,000. The men were later convicted, in September 2009.\n\nIn New Castle, Pennsylvania, two brothers dismantled a bridge by using a cutting torch to take it apart. Between September 16 and September 28, 2011, the brothers stole the entire bridge and then sold the steel for $5,000.\n\nCities across the United States have become targets for metal thieves. Manhole cover thefts increased dramatically between 2007 and 2008, with Philadelphia as one of the hardest hit targets. Other cities dealing with this trend include Chicago, Illinois; Greensboro, North Carolina, Long Beach, California; and Palm Beach County, Florida.\n\nCopper wire thefts have also become increasingly common in the US. With copper prices at $3.70 a pound , compared to $0.60 a pound in 2002, people have been increasingly stealing copper wire from telephone and power company assets. Gangs have been created, a black market for copper wire has emerged, and men even have been injured in power plants while trying to obtain copper wire. Other sources of stolen copper include railroad signal lines, grounding bars at electric substations, and even a bell stolen from a Buddhist temple in Tacoma, Washington, which was later recovered.\n\nFor example, Georgia, like many other states, has seen enough copper crime that a special task force has been created to fight it. The Metro Atlanta Copper Task Force is led by the Atlanta Police Department and involves police and recyclers from surrounding metro areas, Georgia Power, and the Fulton County District Attorney's office.\n\nMany states around the nation have passed – or are exploring – legislation to combat the problem. A new Georgia law took effect in July 2007 making it a crime to knowingly buy stolen metal. It allows prosecutors to prosecute for the actual cost of returning property to original conditions, as many of these thefts dramatically hurt the surrounding property value.\n\nOn September 1, 2007, Earl Thelander of Onawa, Iowa, became the United States' first innocent copper theft fatality. Thelander sustained second- and third-degree burns over 80% of his body during an August 28, 2007, explosion, after copper thieves stripped propane and water lines from a rural residence and let the home fill with gas. Thelander, who, along with his wife, was preparing the empty home for a new tenant, reported the burglary to the Monona County Sheriff's Office, who investigated the initial crime. Hours after local law enforcement sent the Thelanders home, Thelander returned to the home to see if officials had cleared the home for entry. With no law enforcement nor fire department personnel present, he entered the home, and, smelling no fumes, felt it safe to work. In the basement, he plugged in a fan to help dry water on the basement floor, the electricity sparking an explosion.\n\nIn response to the growing concerns and the lack of hard numbers on these crimes in Indianapolis, the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) and the University of Indianapolis Community Research Center (CRC) began in 2008 a collaborative effort to collect data on metal thefts. The Indianapolis Metal Theft Project gathers and analyzes a wide variety of data to provide a clearer understanding of the incidence, types, costs, and impacts of metal theft in Indianapolis in order to inform and implement strategies to reduce these crimes and their impacts.\n\nThe Department of Justice's Office of Community-Oriented Policing and the Center for Problem-Oriented Policing published its 58th problem-solving guide in 2010 directed towards theft of scrap metal. Brandon Kooi provides a review of the problem in the US and internationally, followed by a number of suggested responses and what to consider in those responses.\n\nThe International Association of Property Crime Investigators presents the annual National Metal Theft Investigation Seminar uniting law enforcement and corporate security to share, learn and network to combat metal theft.\n\nThe Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries is one of the groups backing these educational efforts throughout the country. As the nation’s trade association for the scrap recycling industry, ISRI provides members and community leaders with resources that they can use when facing the issue. They have also teamed with the National Crime Prevention Council (known for McGruff the Crime Dog and the “Take a Bite Out of Crime” slogan) in an effort to team with law enforcement and crime prevention organizations to fight and solve this problem, and have established a theft alert system that these groups can use. ISRI and the National Crime Prevention Council offer a number of tips for how to fight and prevent metal theft, including requiring photo ID and license plate information for every transaction, training employees on identifying stolen goods, and keeping good records that might be useful later.\n\n\nSpecific citations:\n\nGeneral references:\n\n"}
{"id": "1287385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1287385", "title": "Million Dollar Baby", "text": "Million Dollar Baby\n\nMillion Dollar Baby is a 2004 American sports drama film directed, co-produced, and scored by Clint Eastwood, and starring Eastwood, Hilary Swank, and Morgan Freeman. This film is about an underappreciated boxing trainer, the mistakes that haunt him from his past, and his quest for atonement by helping an underdog amateur boxer achieve her dream of becoming a professional.\n\n\"Million Dollar Baby\" opened to wide acclaim from critics, and won four Academy Awards, including Best Picture. Its screenplay was written by Paul Haggis, based on short stories by F.X. Toole, the pen name of fight manager and cutman Jerry Boyd. Originally published under the title \"Rope Burns\", the stories have since been republished under the film's title.\n\nMargaret \"Maggie\" Fitzgerald (Hilary Swank), a waitress from a Missouri town in the Ozarks, shows up in the Hit Pit, a run-down Los Angeles gym owned and operated by Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood), an old, cantankerous boxing trainer. Maggie asks Frankie to train her, but he initially refuses. Maggie works out tirelessly each day in his gym, even after Frankie tells her she's \"too old\" to begin a boxing career at her age. Eddie \"Scrap-Iron\" Dupris (Morgan Freeman), Frankie's friend and employee—and the film's narrator—encourages and helps her.\n\nFrankie's prize prospect, \"Big\" Willie Little, signs with successful manager Mickey Mack after becoming impatient with Frankie rejecting offers for a championship bout. With prodding from Scrap and impressed with her persistence, Frankie reluctantly agrees to train Maggie. He warns her that he will teach her only the basics and then find her a manager. Other than Maggie and his employees, the only person Frankie has contact with is a local priest, with whom he spars verbally at daily Mass.\n\nBefore her first fight, Frankie leaves Maggie with a random manager in his gym, much to her dismay; upon being told by Scrap that said manager deliberately put her up against his best girl (coaching the novice to lose) to give her an easy win, Frankie rejoins Maggie in the middle of the bout and coaches her instead to an unforeseen victory. A natural, she fights her way up in the women's amateur boxing division with Frankie's coaching, winning many of her lightweight bouts with first-round knockouts. Earning a reputation for her KOs, Frankie must resort to bribery to get other managers to put their trainee fighters up against her.\n\nEventually, Frankie takes a risk by putting her in the junior welterweight class, where her nose is broken in her first match. Frankie comes to establish a paternal bond with Maggie, who substitutes for his estranged daughter. Scrap, concerned when Frankie rejects several offers for big fights, arranges a meeting for her with Mickey Mack at a diner on her 33rd birthday. Out of loyalty, she declines. Frankie begrudgingly accepts a fight for her against a top-ranked opponent in the UK, where he bestows a Gaelic nickname on her. The two travel to Europe as she continues to win; Maggie eventually saves up enough of her winnings to buy her mother a house, but her mother berates Maggie for endangering her government aid, claiming that everyone back home is laughing at her.\n\nFrankie is finally willing to arrange a title fight. He secures Maggie a $1 million match in Las Vegas, Nevada against the WBA women's welterweight champion, Billie \"The Blue Bear\" Osterman, a German ex-prostitute who has a reputation as a dirty fighter. Overcoming a shaky start, Maggie begins to dominate the fight, but after a round has ended, Billie knocks her out with an illegal sucker punch from behind after the bell has sounded to indicate the end of the round. Before Frankie can pull the corner stool out of the way which was inappropriately placed on its side by Frankie's assistant, Maggie lands hard on it, breaking her neck and leaving her a ventilator-dependent quadriplegic.\n\nFrankie is shown experiencing the first three of the five stages of grief: first seeking multiple doctors' opinions in denial, then blaming Scrap in anger and later trying to bargain with God through prayer.\n\nIn a medical rehabilitation facility, Maggie looks forward to a visit from her family, but they arrive accompanied by an attorney; their only concern is to transfer Maggie's assets to them. She orders them to leave, threatening to sell the house and inform the IRS of her mother's welfare fraud if they ever show their faces again.\n\nAs the days pass, Maggie develops bedsores and undergoes an amputation for an infected leg. She asks a favor of Frankie: to help her die, declaring that she got everything she wanted out of life. A horrified Frankie refuses, and Maggie later bites her tongue repeatedly in an attempt to bleed to death, but the medical staff saves her and takes measures to prevent further suicide attempts. The priest Frankie has harassed for 23 years, Father Horvak, warns him that he would never find himself again if he were to go through with Maggie's wishes.\n\nFrankie sneaks into the gym one night, unaware that Scrap is watching from the shadows. Just before administering a fatal injection of adrenaline, he finally tells Maggie the meaning of a nickname he gave her, \"Mo Chuisle\" (spelled incorrectly in the film as \"mo cuishle\"): Irish for \"my darling, and my blood\" (literally, \"my pulse\"). He never returns to the gym. Scrap's narration is revealed to be a letter to Frankie's daughter, informing her of her father's true character. The last shot of the film shows Frankie sitting at the counter of a diner where Maggie once took him, and after having a homemade lemon meringue pie with her, said \"Now I can die and go to heaven\".\n\n\nThe film was stuck in development hell for years before it was shot. Several studios rejected the project even when Eastwood signed on as actor and director. Even Warner Bros., Eastwood's longtime home base, would not agree to a US$30 million budget. Eastwood persuaded Lakeshore Entertainment's Tom Rosenberg to put up half the budget (as well as handle foreign distribution), with Warner Bros. contributing the rest ($15 million). Eastwood shot the film in less than 40 days between June and July 2004. Filming took place in Los Angeles and film sets at Warner Bros. Studios. The term 'Million Dollar Baby' was from the nose art of a World War II Consolidated B-24 Liberator heavy bomber. Eastwood had his daughter Morgan Colette appear in a brief role as a girl who waves to Swank's character at a gas station.\n\nEastwood had confidence in Swank's acting background, but upon seeing Swank's small physique, he had concerns, \"I just thought, 'Yeah, this gal would be great. If we can get her trained up. If we can get a little bit more bulk on her, to make her look like a fighter'...She was like a feather. But what happened is, she had this great work ethic.\"\n\nConsequently, to prepare for her role, Swank underwent extensive training in the ring and weight room gaining 19 pounds of muscle, aided by professional trainer Grant L Roberts. She trained for nearly five hours every day, winding up with a potentially life-threatening staphylococcus infection. She did not tell Eastwood about the infection because she thought it would be out of character for Maggie.\n\n\"Million Dollar Baby\" initially had a limited release, opening in eight theaters in December 2004. In its later wide release opening, the film earned $12,265,482 in North America and quickly became a box-office hit both domestically and internationally. It grossed $216,763,646 in theaters; $100,492,203 in the United States, and $116,271,443 overseas. The film played in theaters for six and a half months.\n\nThe film received critical acclaim. It holds a 91% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 261 reviews, with an average rating of 8.4/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Clint Eastwood's assured direction - combined with knockout performances from Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman - help \"Million Dollar Baby\" to transcend its clichés, and the result is deeply heartfelt and moving.\" It also has a score of 86 out of 100 on Metacritic, based on 39 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\". Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun Times\" gave the film four stars and stated that \"Clint Eastwood's \"Million Dollar Baby\" is a masterpiece, pure and simple,\" listing it as the best film of 2004. Michael Medved stated: \"My main objection to \"Million Dollar Baby\" always centered on its misleading marketing, and effort by Warner Brothers to sell it as a movie about a female \"Rocky\", with barely a hint of the pitch-dark substance that led Andrew Sarris of the \"New York Observer\" ... to declare that 'no movie in my memory has depressed me more than \"Million Dollar Baby\".'\"\n\nIn early 2005, the film sparked controversy when some disability rights activists protested the ending. Wesley J. Smith in \"The Weekly Standard\" also criticized the film for its ending and for missed opportunities; Smith said, \"The movie could have ended with Maggie triumphing once again, perhaps having obtained an education and becoming a teacher; or, opening a business managing boxers; or perhaps, receiving a standing ovation as an inspirational speaker.\"\n\nEastwood responded to the criticism by saying the film was about the American dream. In an interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\", Eastwood distanced himself from the actions of characters in his films, noting, \"I've gone around in movies blowing people away with a .44 Magnum. But that doesn't mean I think that's a proper thing to do\". Roger Ebert stated that \"a movie is not good or bad because of its content, but because of how it handles its content. \"Million Dollar Baby\" is classical in the clean, clear, strong lines of its story and characters, and had an enormous emotional impact\".\n\nSome commentators criticized the fact that the phrase \"mo chuisle\", a term of endearment meaning literally \"my pulse\", and generally \"my darling\", was misspelled in the film as \"Mo Cuishle\", as shown on the back of Maggie's robe. It is translated in the film as \"my darling, my blood\", although an Irish Gaelic translation site states that it is always translated as \"pulse\", not as \"blood\". The original phrase is short for \"a chuisle mo chroí\", meaning \"O pulse of my heart\". The film has been praised, however, for stirring renewed interest in the Irish language in the U.S.\n\n\"Million Dollar Baby\" received the award for Best Picture of 2004 at the 77th Academy Awards. Clint Eastwood was awarded his second Best Director Oscar for the film, and also received a Best Actor in a Leading Role nomination. Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman received Best Actress in a Leading Role and Best Actor in a Supporting Role Oscars, respectively. Joel Cox, Eastwood's editor for many years, was nominated for Best Film Editing, and Paul Haggis was nominated for the Best Adapted Screenplay award. The film was named the third \"Best Film of the 21st Century So Far\" in 2017 by \"The New York Times\".\n\nThe film was released on VHS and DVD on July 12, 2005, and all editions of the Region 1 DVD, except for the \"Deluxe Edition\", came with a paperback copy of the book \"Rope Burns: Stories from the Corner\". An HD DVD release was issued on April 18, 2006. The Blu-ray Disc version was released on November 14, 2006. It was the first Best Picture winner released on either high-definition optical disc format in the U.S.; it and \"Unforgiven\" (also starring Eastwood and Freeman) were the only ones released in the U.S. on HD DVD prior to the first one released in the U.S. on Blu-ray, \"Crash\".It is also available online for downloading and\nstreaming video rentals through Amazon, Apple's iTunes Store, Vudu and Netflix.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48231992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48231992", "title": "Murder of Tony Golden", "text": "Murder of Tony Golden\n\nGarda Tony Golden was an officer of the Garda Síochána, the national police service of Ireland, who was shot dead by a known dissident republican in a murder–suicide attack near Omeath, County Louth, Ireland on 11 October 2015, while on a domestic violence callout.\n\nTony Golden was originally from Culleens, Ballina, County Mayo and was married with three young children. Garda Golden was attached to Omeath Garda Station and had lived in County Louth, Ireland for 6 years, having joined the force 10 years previously. He was 36 years old at the time of his death.\n\nOn the evening of Sunday, 11 October 2015, Garda Golden – on duty, in uniform and unarmed – was shot dead by a known dissident republican, Adrian Crevan Mackin, after he entered a property on the Mullach Álainn estate in North Louth while accompanying Crevan Mackin's partner, who had been the victim of domestic violence at the hands of Crevan Mackin. She was also shot and critically injured during the incident. Adrian Crevan Mackin is believed to have turned the gun on himself and committed suicide. Golden was accompanying Crevan Mackin's partner to protect her while collecting her belongings as she was moving back to her own family home due to domestic abuse, which had come to the attention of Gardai. Her father remained alone in the waiting patrol car outside the house, and raised the alarm when gunshots were heard. Garda Golden was credited with laying down his own life and saving the life of the young woman. He is credited with the decision to tell the woman's father to stay in the Garda car, a decision that may have saved the man's life.\n\nAdrian Crevan Mackin was well known to both the Gardaí and the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) as an active dissident republican volunteer, and was on bail awaiting terrorism charges (membership of \"The IRA\", an illicit organisation) in the Republic of Ireland at the time of the shooting having been brought before the Special Criminal Court in Dublin earlier in 2015.\n\nCrevan Mackin had been investigated by authorities from Ireland, the United Kingdom and the United States on suspicion of dealing illegal firearms, and his home was raided and searched by the Special Detective Unit in January of the same year as the incident acting on information supplied by the FBI. He was arrested and questioned but no charges were filed relating to firearms, despite evidence of firearm paraphernalia and bomb-making equipment being recovered from his home. Crevan Mackin had been previously convicted of attempted murder as a youth, and possessing illegal pornographic images on his mobile phone in Northern Ireland. He had also been under investigation by the PSNI for threatening the lives of two female officials from social services in Northern Ireland who were in turn investigating him for domestic abuse of his girlfriend.\n\nGarda Golden is understood to have been fatally shot with an illegally held 9mm Glock 17 semi-automatic pistol, and there was more ammunition found on the premises during follow-up searches.\n\nReports indicate another Glock handgun was recovered in the deceased suspect's car, along with 700 rounds of pistol ammunition and cans filled with petrol – indicating Crevan Mackin may have been planning a mass-casualty attack which was interrupted by Garda Golden.\n\nQuestions and concerns were raised by various public figures, politicians, the media and the general public as to why a lone unarmed Garda would be tasked to the house of a known violent terrorist, someone suspected of importing and selling guns, as to why the killer was still in possession of powerful illegal firearms and illegal ammunition while on bail relating to terrorism charges, as to why he was on bail at all – a decision the DPP did not object to. Further issues were raised about cutbacks to Garda resources and the lack of personal protective equipment for regular uniformed members.\n\nThe incident came less than 3 years after Detective Garda Adrian Donohoe was fatally shot just a number of kilometres away by a criminal gang with links to dissident republicans.\n\nGarda Golden, in service of the state, was afforded a full state funeral on 15 October 2015 which took place at Saint Oliver Plunkett's Church, Blackrock, County Louth.\n\n"}
{"id": "24573437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24573437", "title": "Narcissistic parent", "text": "Narcissistic parent\n\nA narcissistic parent is a parent affected by narcissism or narcissistic personality disorder. Typically narcissistic parents are exclusively and possessively close to their children and may be especially envious of, and threatened by, their child's growing independence. The result may be what has been termed a pattern of narcissistic attachment, with the child considered to exist solely to fulfill the parent's wishes and needs. Commonly parents attempt to force their children to treat themselves as though they are their parents' puppets, or else be subject to punishments such as emotional abuse. Relative to developmental psychology, narcissistic parenting will adversely affect children in the areas of reasoning, emotional, ethical, and societal behaviors and attitudes as they mature. Within the realm of narcissistic parenting, personal boundaries are often disregarded with the goal of moulding and manipulating the child to satisfy the parents’ expectations.\n\nNarcissistic people with low self esteem feel the need to control how others regard them, fearing they will be blamed or rejected and personal inadequacies exposed. They are self-absorbed, some to the point of grandiosity; and being preoccupied with protecting their self image, they tend to be inflexible, and lack the empathy necessary for child raising.\n\nThe term “narcissism,” as used in Sigmund Freud’s clinical study, noted behavioral observations such as self-aggrandizement, self-esteem, vulnerability, fear of losing the affection of people and of failure, reliance on defense mechanisms, perfectionism and interpersonal conflict.\n\nNarcissism tends to play out inter-generationally, with narcissistic parents producing either narcissistic or codependent children in turn. Whereas a self-confident parent, the good-enough parent, can allow a child its autonomous development, the narcissistic parent may instead use the child as a means to promote their own image. The father concerned with self-enhancement, with being mirrored and admired by a son, may leave the latter feeling a puppet to his father's emotional/intellectual demands.\n\nTo maintain their self-esteem, and protect their vulnerable true selves, narcissists need to control others' behavior, particularly that of their children seen as extensions of themselves. Thus narcissistic parents may speak of carrying the torch, maintaining the family image, or making mother or father proud and may reproach their children for exhibiting weakness, being too dramatic, or not meeting the standard of what is expected. As a result, children of narcissists learn to play their part and to perform their special skill, especially in public or for others; but typically do not have many memories of having felt loved or appreciated for being themselves, rather associating their experience of love and appreciation with conforming to the demands of the narcissistic parent.\n\nDestructive narcissistic parents have a pattern of consistently being the focus of attention, exaggerating, seeking compliments and putting their children down. Punishment in the form of blame, criticism or emotional blackmail, and attempts to induce guilt, may be used to ensure compliance with the parents' wishes and their need for narcissistic supply.\n\nChildren of a resistant, more stubborn temperamental parent defend against being supportive of others in the house. They observe how the selfish parents get their needs met by others. They learn how manipulation and using guilt gets the parent what he or she wants. They develop a false self and use aggression and intimidation to get their way. Some of the most common issues in narcissistic parenting are due to the lack of appropriate, responsible nurturing which ultimately contributes to a child’s feeling of emptiness, insecurity in loving relationships, imaginary fears, mistrust of others, identity conflict and inability to develop a distinct existence from that of the parent.\n\nThe sensitive, guilt-ridden children in the family learn to meet the parent’s needs for gratification and try to get love by accommodating the whims and wishes of the parent. The child’s normal feelings are ignored, denied and eventually repressed in attempts to gain the parent’s “love”. Guilt and shame keep the child locked into this developmental arrest. Their aggressive impulses and rage become split off and are not integrated with normal development. These children develop a false self as a defense mechanism and become codependent in relationships. The child's unconscious denial of their true self perpetuates a cycle of self-hatred, fearing any reminder of their authentic self.\n\nNarcissistic parenting often leads to children being either victimized or bullying themselves, hypersexual in nature (media driven), having a poor or overly inflated body image, tendency to use and/or abuse drugs or alcohol, body modification such as piercings or tattoos, or acting out (in a potentially harmful manner) for attention.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15757564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15757564", "title": "Neural Impulse Actuator", "text": "Neural Impulse Actuator\n\nThe Neural Impulse Actuator (NIA) is a brain–computer interface (BCI) device developed by OCZ Technology. BCI devices attempt to move away from the classic input devices like keyboard and mouse and instead read electrical activity from the head, preferably the EEG. The name Neural Impulse Actuator implies that the signals originate from some neuronal activity; however, what is actually captured is a mixture of muscle, skin and nerve activity including sympathetic and parasympathetic components that have to be summarized as biopotentials rather than pure neural signals. As of May 27, 2011, the OCZ website says that the NIA is no longer being manufactured and has been end-of-lifed.\n\nOn June 1, 2012 a post was made on the official forums, asking about the NIAs future, the reply being, \"It [the NIA] was spun out into a different company as a side-effect of OCZ's IPO and that company is BCInet.\"\n\nThe name Neural Impulse Actuator is still justifiable since also the secondary signals are under neuronal control. The biopotentials are decompiled into different frequency spectra to allow the separation into different groups of electrical signals. Individual signals that are isolated comprise alpha and beta brain waves, electromyograms and electro oculograms. \nThe current version of the NIA uses carbon-fibers injected into soft plastic as substrate for the headband and for the sensors and achieves sensitivity much greater than the original silver chloride-based sensors using a clip-on interface to the wire harness.\n\nControl over the computer in either desktop or gaming environments is done by binding keys to different zones within as many as three vertical joysticks. Each joystick can be divided into several zones based on thresholds and each zone within each joystick can be bound to a keyboard key. Each keystroke can further be assigned to several modes, including single keystroke, hold, repeat and dwell, which allows full plasticity with respect to configuration of the NIA for any application. Moreover, the same \"vertical joysticks\" can be used in more than one instance to enable simultaneous pressing of multiple keys at any given time like \"W\" and \"Spacebar\" for jumping forward or toggling between left and right strafing for running in a zigzag pattern.\n\nThe only software available officially is proprietary to 32 and 64-bit versions of Microsoft Windows 7 (XP and Vista).\n\nNo specifications have been published. People who are trying to make use of the device on Unix-like platforms, or create their own software for it for other reasons, say it may be a HID device providing raw data from its sensors to the software. There is no support for Linux.\n\nThe 3rd-party input remapping applications GlovePIE and PPJoy accept input from the nia according to GlovePIE.org forums.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9096236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9096236", "title": "New England Biolabs", "text": "New England Biolabs\n\nNew England Biolabs (NEB) produces and supplies recombinant and native enzyme reagents for the life science research, as well as providing solutions supporting genome editing, synthetic biology and next-generation sequencing. NEB also provides free access to research tools such as REBASE, InBASE, and Polbase.\n\nEstablished in 1974 by Donald Comb, as a cooperative laboratory of experienced scientists, and initially produced restriction enzymes on a commercial scale. The company then began producing solution-oriented products. It received approximately $1.7 million in Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grants between 2009 and 2013 for this research. NEB produces 230 recombinant and 30 native restriction enzymes for genomic research, as well as nicking enzymes and DNA methylases. It pursues research in areas related to proteomics, DNA Sequencing, and drug discovery. NEB scientists also conduct basic research in Molecular Biology and Parasitology.\n\nThe company has subsidiaries in Singapore, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, and the U.K. and distributors in South America, Australia, and other countries in Europe and Asia. Its headquarters are in Ipswich, MA. Development of the current headquarters began in 2000, and was completed in 2005. Donald Comb served as the company’s Chairman and CEO from the company’s founding in 1974, until 2005. In 2005, he was replaced as chief executive by James Ellard, though Comb remained Chairman. NEB employs about 350 people at its headquarters. As company policy, all scientists and some executives must work at least one day per month on the customer support telephone line, answering technical support questions about the company’s products.\n\nSir Richard John Roberts is the company’s Chief Scientific Officer. He shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Phillip Allen Sharp for the discovery of introns in eukaryotic DNA and the mechanism of gene-splicing.\n\nIn 2015, NEB committed to establishing a GMP manufacturing facility near its headquarters in Ipswich, Massachusetts; the aim is to be fully validated and operational by 2017.\n\nThe company runs free scientific databases. REBASE, the restriction enzyme database, contains the details of commercial and research endonucleases. In 2011 the company founded Polbase, an online database which provides information specifically about polymerases. Another free NEB database is InBase, an intein database, which includes the Intein Registry and information about each intein.\n\nIn 2001, NEB co-founded the marine DNA library Ocean Genome Legacy (OGL), which according to the \"Boston Globe\", “catalogues samples of organisms from all over the world, to be made available to scientists for research”. Though originally located on the NEB campus, OGLF relocated to the Nahant campus of Northeastern University in 2014. To enable point-of-use sales of its reagents, NEB created a digital interface for enzyme-housing freezers to be used at customer storage sites, through a partnership with Ionia Corp. and Salesforce.com. The data is used by the company for both sales logistics and as a part of future enzyme research development. It has also partnered with Harvard University on recycling and reclamation initiatives when its products and packaging come to the end of their use or lifecycle. , NEB also had a distribution agreement with VWR.\n\n"}
{"id": "55567666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55567666", "title": "New Lab", "text": "New Lab\n\nNew Lab opened in June, 2016, as a multi-disciplinary technology center. Housed in Building 128 of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, the $35 million project serves as a hardware-focused shared workspace, research lab, and hatchery for socially-oriented tech manufacturing.\n\nUsing the MIT Media Lab as a model, the impetus for the independent organization was to provide space and services to new manufacturing enterprises. Current members work in fields such as robotics, connected devices, energy, nanotechnology, life sciences, and urban tech.\n\nMedia coverage of New Lab has focused on the company's role in revitalizing the Brooklyn Navy Yard, its public-private partnership lease structure, and Urban Tech initiative with the New York CIty Economic Development Corporation.\n\nDavid Belt and partner Scott Cohen formed the concept for New Lab in 2011 after prospecting the decaying Building 128 with Navy Yard president David Ehrenberg. The partners found the maritime manufacturing history of the structure, specifically the manufacturing innovations that took place there, synchronous with their aim to provide a platform for emerging hardware technologies in New York City. The city was abundant in resources and opportunities for entrepreneurs working in software, Belt said in a recent interview, but space, tools and resources for those working in the new manufacturing hardware community were lacking.\n\nBelt leveraged his development firm, Macro Sea, a company that specializes \"in bringing historic properties back into cultural relevance,\" to obtain funding, architectural expertise, and begin constructing a lease with the city of New York. The Navy Yard was in the initial stages of its current revitalization at the time and, because the city owned the property, special arrangements were needed to develop there.\n\nCohen began scouting the companies who would comprise their core members and helped work to capitalize them. To date, venture capitalists have invested approximately $250 million in New Lab and its members.\n\nThe land predating New Lab has a rich historical cultural lineage and narrative of experimental and innovative breakthroughs. That past was a major factor in the decision to develop New Lab in the Navy Yard. Before colonial settlement, the area that would become the Navy Yard served as a clamming site for the Lenape Native Americans. It was then settled by the Dutch and sold to a developer, thus beginning its employment as a center for manufacturing. Among the technological advancements that took place at the Navy Yard are: the first use of the steam-powered pile driver; construction of the first undersea telegraph cable; development of a commercialized form of anesthetic ether by E.R. Squibb; and a broadcast of the first woman to sing over the radio, opera singer Eugenia Farrar performed \"I Love You Truly.\"\n\nConstruction of navy ships like the Fulton II, a first-of-its-kind steam-powered warship, and fabrication of the USS Arizona, state-of-the-art among its peers, induced many influential manufacturing process refinements and advancements.\n\nIn interviews, Belt and Cohen both cite this maritime and technological history as inspiration for New Lab, both in guiding the renovation of the facility and in shaping its mission.\n\nAccording to a Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation document,128 was raised in 1899 as a \"steel structure... used to assemble large boiler engines and fabricated sections of naval vessels.\" It served as the primary machine shop for every major ship launched during World Wars One and Two. Designed to accommodate the significant height of a warship, the sequence of its hulking steel girders resembles an airport hangar. 128 has been slated for, but avoided, plans for non-naval readaptation. The City of New York sought to adapt it for reuse as a \"food complex at one point,\" but the effort was not sustained.\n\nMarvel Architects, New Lab's architect of record, along with DBI, Belt's project management firm, worked together to craft and execute the renovation. Press regarding New Lab often states that the company occupies Building 128 of the Navy Yard, but this is slightly misleading in that 128 is a complex of warehouses and New Lab occupies the southernmost portion.\n\nRecladding the building's armature and repurposing of the 51,000 ft machine shop into an 84,000 ft multidisciplinary design, prototyping, and advanced manufacturing space took approximately 5 years and continued until the company's full opening in September 2016. The undertaking utilized approximately 9,000 lbs of steel in total according to the developer.\n\nA guiding principle of the redesign was to harmonize of the needs of the forthcoming lab environment with the original structural features. Modern workplace design elements were fused with the 19th century industrial characteristics of the building's centerline.\n\nNew Lab's open floor design was intended, spatially, to reinforce its mission, the layout meant to encourage member companies to collaborate and cross-pollinate ideas. Communal meeting rooms, office pods, and interior plazas on both floors emphasize the developer’s intention to create a collaborative design and fabrication center.\n\nUpon completion, the rebuild subdivided Building 128's usable space into: Private studios = 31,664 ft; Open private studios = 6,226 ft; Fabrication lab = 6,834 ft; Cafe kitchen = 600 ft; Conference rooms = 2,014 ft; Coworking desks = 144; Flex space = 66 desks.\n\nThere is an additional 6,174 ft of event space which hosts talks, hackathons, and new manufacturing events such as the recent Urban Tech Hub launch.\n\nAdditive Manufacturing (3D printing) technology is a component of the design process for many New Lab residents. Prototyping shops are a distinguishing feature of the hardware-centric facility. New Lab leverages partnerships with firms like AutoDesk, Stratasys, BigRep, Haas, Ultimaker, and others to provide and maintain equipment and filament for printing. The organization has amassed several million dollars of digital fabrication and manufacturing machine assets such as 3D Printers, electronic workbenches, fabrication tools, and CNC equipment since its opening.\nAs of September 2017 eighty companies and 400 people worked at New Lab. By 2018, the number of companies had increased to over 100. Members are typically growth-stage companies with anywhere between 3-20 employees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14694522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14694522", "title": "Otto von Lutterberg", "text": "Otto von Lutterberg\n\nOtto von Lutterberg (died 16 February 1270) was the Landmeister of the Livonian Order of the Teutonic Knights from 1266 to 1270.\n\nThe Battle of Rakvere took place during his command of the Livonian Order, when on February 18, 1268 the combined forces of vassals of the Danish crown, Livonian Knights and local Estonian militia fought the combined forces of Novgorod and Pskov; the outcome of the battle is in dispute in the chronicles. However, according to the Livonian Rhymed Chronicle Otto von Luttenberg was not present during the battle (being at that time in Semgallia) but in June of the following year led a Livonian retaliatory expedition to the lands of Pskov, where the forces under his command burned the castle of Izborsk, the town around Pskov castle and laid siege to the castle itself. The siege ended with a truce after the defenders received reinforcements from Novgorod. Von Luttenberg then hastily traveled to Riga where he kidnapped and arrested the Archbishop of Riga Alfred Suerbeer, and thus solved the long-simmering power struggle with the Archbishop in favor of the Order, the bishop being released only after he promised not to appeal to the Pope or oppose the Order in the future.\n\nOtto von Luttenberg was killed in 1270 at the Battle of Karuse against the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. He is buried in Karuse village church, in present-day Estonia.\n"}
{"id": "5146476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5146476", "title": "Reproductive isolation", "text": "Reproductive isolation\n\nThe mechanisms of reproductive isolation are a collection of evolutionary mechanisms, behaviors and physiological processes critical for speciation. They prevent members of different species from producing offspring, or ensure that any offspring are sterile. These barriers maintain the integrity of a species by reducing gene flow between related species.\n\nThe mechanisms of reproductive isolation have been classified in a number of ways. Zoologist Ernst Mayr classified the mechanisms of reproductive isolation in two broad categories: pre-zygotic for those that act before fertilization (or before mating in the case of animals) and post-zygotic for those that act after it. The mechanisms are genetically controlled and can appear in species whose geographic distributions overlap (sympatric speciation) or are separate (allopatric speciation).\n\nPre-zygotic isolation mechanisms are the most economic in terms of the natural selection of a population, as resources are not wasted on the production of a descendant that is weak, non-viable or sterile. These mechanisms include physiological or systemic barriers to fertilization.\n\nAny of the factors that prevent potentially fertile individuals from meeting will reproductively isolate the members of distinct species. The types of barriers that can cause this isolation include: different habitats, physical barriers, and a difference in the time of sexual maturity or flowering.\n\nAn example of the ecological or habitat differences that impede the meeting of potential pairs occurs in two fish species of the family \"Gasterosteidae\" (sticklebacks). One species lives all year round in fresh water, mainly in small streams. The other species lives in the sea during winter, but in spring and summer individuals migrate to river estuaries to reproduce. The members of the two populations are reproductively isolated due to their adaptations to distinct salt concentrations.\nAn example of reproductive isolation due to differences in the mating season are found in the toad species \"Bufo americanus\" and \"Bufo fowleri\". The members of these species can be successfully crossed in the laboratory producing healthy, fertile hybrids. However, mating does not occur in the wild even though the geographical distribution of the two species overlaps. The reason for the absence of inter-species mating is that \"B. americanus\" mates in early summer and \"B. fowleri\" in late summer.\nCertain plant species, such as \"Tradescantia canaliculata\" and \"T. subaspera\", are sympatric throughout their geographic distribution, yet they are reproductively isolated as they flower at different times of the year. In addition, one species grows in sunny areas and the other in deeply shaded areas.\n\nThe different mating rituals of animal species creates extremely powerful reproductive barriers, termed sexual or behavior isolation, that isolate apparently similar species in the majority of the groups of the animal kingdom. In dioecious species, males and females have to search for a partner, be in proximity to each other, carry out the complex mating rituals and finally copulate or release their gametes into the environment in order to breed.\n\nMating dances, the songs of males to attract females or the mutual grooming of pairs, are all examples of typical courtship behavior that allows both recognition and reproductive isolation. This is because each of the stages of courtship depend on the behavior of the partner. The male will only move onto the second stage of the exhibition if the female shows certain responses in her behavior. He will only pass onto the third stage when she displays a second key behavior. The behaviors of both interlink, are synchronized in time and lead finally to copulation or the liberation of gametes into the environment. No animal that is not physiologically suitable for fertilization can complete this demanding chain of behavior. In fact, the smallest difference in the courting patterns of two species is enough to prevent mating (for example, a specific song pattern acts as an isolation mechanism in distinct species of grasshopper of the genus \"Chorthippus\").\nEven where there are minimal morphological differences between species, differences in behavior can be enough to prevent mating. For example, \"Drosophila melanogaster\" and \"D. simulans\" which are considered twin species due to their morphological similarity, do not mate even if they are kept together in a laboratory. \"Drosophila ananassae\" and \"D. pallidosa\" are twin species from Melanesia. In the wild they rarely produce hybrids, although in the laboratory it is possible to produce fertile offspring. Studies of their sexual behavior show that the males court the females of both species but the females show a marked preference for mating with males of their own species. A different regulator region has been found on Chromosome II of both species that affects the selection behavior of the females.\n\nPheromones play an important role in the sexual isolation of insect species. These compounds serve to identify individuals of the same species and of the same or different sex. Evaporated molecules of volatile pheromones can serve as a wide-reaching chemical signal. In other cases, pheromones may be detected only at a short distance or by contact.\n\nIn species of the \"melanogaster\" group of \"Drosophila\", the pheromones of the females are mixtures of different compounds, there is a clear dimorphism in the type and/or quantity of compounds present for each sex. In addition, there are differences in the quantity and quality of constituent compounds between related species, it is assumed that the pheromones serve to distinguish between individuals of each species. An example of the role of pheromones in sexual isolation is found in 'corn borers' in the genus \"Ostrinia\". There are two twin species in Europe that occasionally cross. The females of both species produce pheromones that contain a volatile compound which has two isomers, E and Z; 99% of the compound produced by the females of one species is in the E isomer form, while the females of the other produce 99% isomer Z. The production of the compound is controlled by just one locus and the interspecific hybrid produces an equal mix of the two isomers. The males, for their part, almost exclusively detect the isomer emitted by the females of their species, such that the hybridization although possible is scarce. The perception of the males is controlled by one gene, distinct from the one for the production of isomers, the heterozygous males show a moderate response to the odour of either type. In this case, just 2 'loci' produce the effect of ethological isolation between species that are genetically very similar.\n\nSexual isolation between two species can be asymmetrical. This can happen when the mating that produces descendants only allows one of the two species to function as the female progenitor and the other as the male, while the reciprocal cross does not occur. For instance, half of the wolves tested in the Great Lakes area of America show mitochondrial DNA sequences of coyotes, while mitochondrial DNA from wolves is never found in coyote populations. This probably reflects an asymmetry in inter-species mating due to the difference in size of the two species as male wolves take advantage of their greater size in order to mate with female coyotes, while female wolves and male coyotes do not mate.\n\nMating pairs may not be able to couple successfully if their genitals are not compatible. The relationship between the reproductive isolation of species and the form of their genital organs was signaled for the first time in 1844 by the French entomologist Léon Dufour. Insects' rigid carapaces act in a manner analogous to a lock and key, as they will only allow mating between individuals with complementary structures, that is, males and females of the same species (termed \"co-specifics\").\n\nEvolution has led to the development of genital organs with increasingly complex and divergent characteristics, which will cause mechanical isolation between species. Certain characteristics of the genital organs will often have converted them into mechanisms of isolation. However, numerous studies show that organs that are anatomically very different can be functionally compatible, indicating that other factors also determine the form of these complicated structures.\n\nMechanical isolation also occurs in plants and this is related to the adaptation and coevolution of each species in the attraction of a certain type of pollinator (where pollination is zoophilic) through a collection of morphophysiological characteristics of the flowers (called floral syndromes), in such a way that the transport of pollen to other species does not occur.\n\nThe synchronous spawning of many species of coral in marine reefs means that inter-species hybridization can take place as the gametes of hundreds of individuals of tens of species are liberated into the same water at the same time. Approximately a third of all the possible crosses between species are compatible, in the sense that the gametes will fuse and lead to individual hybrids. This hybridization apparently plays a fundamental role in the evolution of coral species. However, the other two-thirds of possible crosses are incompatible. It has been observed that in sea urchins of the genus \"Strongylocentrotus\" the concentration of spermatocytes that allow 100% fertilization of the ovules of the same species is only able to fertilize 1.5% of the ovules of other species. This inability to produce hybrid offspring, despite the fact that the gametes are found at the same time and in the same place, is due to a phenomenon known as \"gamete incompatibility\", which is often found between marine invertebrates, and whose physiological causes are not fully understood.\n\nIn some \"Drosophila\" crosses, the swelling of the female's vagina has been noted following insemination. This has the effect of consequently preventing the fertilization of the ovule by sperm of a different species.\n\nIn plants the pollen grains of a species can germinate in the stigma and grow in the style of other species. However, the growth of the pollen tubes may be detained at some point between the stigma and the ovules, in such a way that fertilization does not take place. This mechanism of reproductive isolation is common in the angiosperms and is called \"cross-incompatibility\" or \"incongruence\".\nA relationship exists between self-incompatibility and the phenomenon of cross-incompatibility. In general crosses between individuals of a self-compatible species (SC) with individuals of a self-incompatible (SI) species give hybrid offspring. On the other hand, a reciprocal cross (SI x SC) will not produce offspring, because the pollen tubes will not reach the ovules. This is known as \"unilateral incompatibility\", which also occurs when two SC or two SI species are crossed.\n\nA number of mechanisms which act after fertilization preventing successful inter-population crossing are discussed below.\n\nA type of incompatibility that is found as often in plants as in animals occurs when the egg or ovule is fertilized but the zygote does not develop, or it develops and the resulting individual has a reduced viability. This is the case for crosses between species of the frog genus, where widely differing results are observed depending of the species involved. In some crosses there is no segmentation of the zygote (or it may be that the hybrid is extremely non-viable and changes occur from the first mitosis). In others, normal segmentation occurs in the blastula but gastrulation fails. Finally, in other crosses, the initial stages are normal but errors occur in the final phases of embryo development. This indicates differentiation of the embryo development genes (or gene complexes) in these species and these differences determine the non-viability of the hybrids.\n\nSimilar results are observed in mosquitos of the genus \"Culex\", but the differences are seen between reciprocal crosses, from which it is concluded that the same effect occurs in the interaction between the genes of the cell nucleus (inherited from both parents) as occurs in the genes of the cytoplasmic organelles which are inherited solely from the female progenitor through the cytoplasm of the ovule.\n\nIn Angiosperms, the successful development of the embryo depends on the normal functioning of its endosperm.\n\nThe failure of endosperm development and its subsequent abortion has been observed in many interploidal crosses (that is, those between populations with a particular degree of intra or interspecific ploidy), and in certain crosses in species with the same level of ploidy. The collapse of the endosperm, and the subsequent abortion of the hybrid embryo is one of the most common post-fertilization reproductive isolation mechanism found in angiosperms.\n\nA hybrid has normal viability but is typically deficient in terms of reproduction or is sterile. This is demonstrated by the mule and in many other well known hybrids. In all of these cases sterility is due to the interaction between the genes of the two species involved; to chromosomal imbalances due to the different number of chromosomes in the parent species; or to nucleus-cytoplasmic interactions such as in the case of \"Culex\" described above.\n\nHinnies and mules are hybrids resulting from a cross between a horse and a donkey or between a mare and a donkey, respectively. These animals are nearly always sterile due to the difference in the number of chromosomes between the two parent species. Both horses and donkeys belong to the genus \"Equus\", but \"Equus caballus\" has 64 chromosomes, while \"Equus asinus\" only has 62. A cross will produce offspring (mule or hinny) with 63 chromosomes, that will not form pairs, which means that they do not divide in a balanced manner during meiosis. In the wild, the horses and donkeys ignore each other and do not cross. In order to obtain mules or hinnies it is necessary to train the progenitors to accept copulation between the species or create them through artificial insemination.\n\nThe sterility of many interspecific hybrids in angiosperms has been widely recognised and studied.\nInterspecific sterility of hybrids in plants has multiple possible causes. These may be genetic, related to the genomes, or the interaction between nuclear and cytoplasmic factors, as will be discussed in the corresponding section. Nevertheless, it is important to note that in plants, hybridization is a stimulus for the creation of new species – the contrary to the situation in animals.\nAlthough the hybrid may be sterile, it can continue to multiply in the wild by asexual reproduction, whether vegetative propagation or apomixis or the production of seeds.\nIndeed, interspecific hybridization can be associated with polyploidia and, in this way, the origin of new species that are called allopolyploids. \"Rosa canina\", for example, is the result of multiple hybridizations. or there is a type of wheat that is an allohexaploid that contains the genomes of three different species.\n\nIn general, the barriers that separate species do not consist of just one mechanism. The twin species of \"Drosophila\", \"D. pseudoobscura\" and \"D. persimilis\", are isolated from each other by habitat (\"persimilis\" generally lives in colder regions at higher altitudes), by the timing of the mating season (\"persimilis\" is generally more active in the morning and \"pseuoobscura\" at night) and by behavior during mating (the females of both species prefer the males of their respective species). In this way, although the distribution of these species overlaps in wide areas of the west of the United States of America, these isolation mechanisms are sufficient to keep the species separated. Such that, only a few fertile females have been found amongst the other species among the thousands that have been analyzed. However, when hybrids are produced between both species, the gene flow between the two will continue to be impeded as the hybrid males are sterile. Also, and in contrast with the great vigor shown by the sterile males, the descendants of the backcrosses of the hybrid females with the parent species are weak and notoriously non-viable. This last mechanism restricts even more the genetic interchange between the two species of fly in the wild.\n\nHaldane's rule states that when one of the two sexes is absent in interspecific hybrids between two specific species, then the sex that is not produced, is rare or is sterile is the heterozygous (or heterogametic) sex. In mammals, at least, there is growing evidence to suggest that this is due to high rates of mutation of the genes determining masculinity in the Y chromosome.\n\nIt has been suggested that Haldane's rule simply reflects the fact that the male sex is more sensitive than the female when the sex-determining genes are included in a hybrid genome. But there are also organisms in which the heterozygous sex is the female: birds and butterflies and the law is followed in these organisms. Therefore, it is not a problem related to sexual development, nor with the sex chromosomes. Haldane proposed that the stability of hybrid individual development requires the full gene complement of each parent species, so that the hybrid of the heterozygous sex is unbalanced (i.e. missing at least one chromosome from each of the parental species). For example, the hybrid male obtained by crossing \"D. melanogaster\" females with \" D. simulans\" males, which is non-viable, lacks the X chromosome of \" D. simulans\".\n\nThe genetics of ethological isolation barriers will be discussed first. Pre-copulatory isolation occurs when the genes necessary for the sexual reproduction of one species differ from the equivalent genes of another species, such that if a male of species A and a female of species B are placed together they are unable to copulate. Study of the genetics involved in this reproductive barrier tries to identify the genes that govern distinct sexual behaviors in the two species. The males of \"Drosophila melanogaster\" and those of \"D. simulans\" conduct an elaborate courtship with their respective females, which are different for each species, but the differences between the species are more quantitative than qualitative. In fact the \"simulans\" males are able to hybridize with the \"melanogaster\" females. Although there are lines of the latter species that can easily cross there are others that are hardly able to. Using this difference, it is possible to assess the minimum number of genes involved in pre-copulatory isolation between the \"melanogaster\" and \"simulans\" species and their chromosomal location.\n\nIn experiments, flies of the \"D. melanogaster\" line, which hybridizes readily with \"simulans\", were crossed with another line that it does not hybridize with, or rarely. The females of the segregated populations obtained by this cross were placed next to \"simulans\" males and the percentage of hybridization was recorded, which is a measure of the degree of reproductive isolation. It was concluded from this experiment that 3 of the 8 chromosomes of the haploid complement of \"D. melanogaster \" carry at least one gene that affects isolation, such that substituting one chromosome from a line of low isolation with another of high isolation reduces the hybridization frequency. In addition, interactions between chromosomes are detected so that certain combinations of the chromosomes have a multiplying effect.\nCross incompatibility or incongruence in plants is also determined by major genes that are not associated at the self-incompatibility \"S locus\".\n\nReproductive isolation between species appears, in certain cases, a long time after fertilization and the formation of the zygote, as happens – for example – in the twin species \"Drosophila pavani\" and \"D. gaucha\". The hybrids between both species are not sterile, in the sense that they produce viable gametes, ovules and spermatozoa. However, they cannot produce offspring as the sperm of the hybrid male do not survive in the semen receptors of the females, be they hybrids or from the parent lines. In the same way, the sperm of the males of the two parent species do not survive in the reproductive tract of the hybrid female. This type of post-copulatory isolation appears as the most efficient system for maintaining reproductive isolation in many species.\n\nThe development of a zygote into an adult is a complex and delicate process of interactions between genes and the environment that must be carried out precisely, and if there is any alteration in the usual process, caused by the absence of a necessary gene or the presence of a different one, it can arrest the normal development causing the non-viability of the hybrid or its sterility. It should be borne in mind that half of the chromosomes and genes of a hybrid are from one species and the other half come from the other. If the two species are genetically different, there is little possibility that the genes from both will act harmoniously in the hybrid. From this perspective, only a few genes would be required in order to bring about post copulatory isolation, as opposed to the situation described previously for pre-copulatory isolation.\n\nIn many species where pre-copulatory reproductive isolation does not exist, hybrids are produced but they are of only one sex. This is the case for the hybridization between females of \"Drosophila simulans\" and \"Drosophila melanogaster\" males: the hybridized females die early in their development so that only males are seen among the offspring. However, populations of \"D. simulans\" have been recorded with genes that permit the development of adult hybrid females, that is, the viability of the females is \"rescued\". It is assumed that the normal activity of these speciation genes is to \"inhibit\" the expression of the genes that allow the growth of the hybrid. There will also be regulator genes.\n\nA number of these genes have been found in the \"melanogaster\" species group. The first to be discovered was \"Lhr\" (Lethal hybrid rescue) located in Chromosome II of \"D. simulans\". This dominant allele allows the development of hybrid females from the cross between \"simulans\" females and \"melanogaster\" males. A different gene, also located on Chromosome II of \"D. simulans\" is \"Shfr\" that also allows the development of female hybrids, its activity being dependent on the temperature at which development occurs. Other similar genes have been located in distinct populations of species of this group. In short, only a few genes are needed for an effective post copulatory isolation barrier mediated through the non-viability of the hybrids.\n\nAs important as identifying an isolation gene is knowing its function. The \"Hmr\" gene, linked to the X chromosome and implicated in the viability of male hybrids between \"D. melanogaster\" and \"D. simulans\", is a gene from the proto-oncogene family \"myb\", that codes for a transcriptional regulator. Two variants of this gene function perfectly well in each separate species, but in the hybrid they do not function correctly, possibly due to the different genetic background of each species. Examination of the allele sequence of the two species shows that change of direction substitutions are more abundant than synonymous substitutions, suggesting that this gene has been subject to intense natural selection.\n\nThe Dobzhansky-Muller model proposes that reproductive incompatibilities between species are caused by the interaction of the genes of the respective species. It has been demonstrated recently that \"Lhr\" has functionally diverged in \"D. simulans\" and will interact with \"Hmr\" which, in turn, has functionally diverged in \"D. melanogaster\" to cause the lethality of the male hybrids. \"Lhr\" is located in a heterochromatic region of the genome and its sequence has diverged between these two species in a manner consistent with the mechanisms of positive selection. An important unanswered question is whether the genes detected correspond to old genes that initiated the speciation favoring hybrid non-viability, or are modern genes that have appeared post-speciation by mutation, that are not shared by the different populations and that suppress the effect of the primitive non-viability genes. The \"OdsH\" (abbreviation of \"Odysseus\") gene causes partial sterility in the hybrid between \"Drosophila simulans\" and a related species, \"D. mauritiana\", which is only encountered on Mauritius, and is of recent origin. This gene shows monophyly in both species and also has been subject to natural selection. It is thought that it is a gene that intervenes in the initial stages of speciation, while other genes that differentiate the two species show polyphyly. \"Odsh\" originated by duplication in the genome of \"Drosophila\" and has evolved at very high rates in \"D. mauritania\", while its paralogue, \"unc-4\", is nearly identical between the species of the group \"melanogaster\". Seemingly, all these cases illustrate the manner in which speciation mechanisms originated in nature, therefore they are collectively known as \"speciation genes\", or possibly, gene sequences with a normal function within the populations of a species that diverge rapidly in response to positive selection thereby forming reproductive isolation barriers with other species. In general, all these genes have functions in the transcriptional regulation of other genes.\n\nThe \"Nup96\" gene is another example of the evolution of the genes implicated in post-copulatory isolation. It regulates the production of one of the approximately 30 proteins required to form a nuclear pore. In each of the \"simulans\" groups of \"Drosophila\" the protein from this gene interacts with the protein from another, as yet undiscovered, gene on the X chromosome in order to form a functioning pore. However, in a hybrid the pore that is formed is defective and causes sterility. The differences in the sequences of \"Nup96\" have been subject to adaptive selection, similar to the other examples of \"speciation genes\" described above.\n\nPost-copulatory isolation can also arise between chromosomally differentiated populations due to chromosomal translocations and inversions. If, for example, a reciprocal translocation is fixed in a population, the hybrid produced between this population and one that does not carry the translocation will not have a complete meiosis. This will result in the production of unequal gametes containing unequal numbers of chromosomes with a reduced fertility. In certain cases, complete translocations exist that involve more than two chromosomes, so that the meiosis of the hybrids is irregular and their fertility is zero or nearly zero. Inversions can also give rise to abnormal gametes in heterozygous individuals but this effect has little importance compared to translocations. An example of chromosomal changes causing sterility in hybrids comes from the study of \"Drosophila nasuta\" and \"D. albomicans\" which are twin species from the Indo-Pacific region. There is no sexual isolation between them and the F1 hybrid is fertile. However, the F2 hybrids are relatively infertile and leave few descendants which have a skewed ratio of the sexes. The reason is that the X chromosome of \"albomicans\" is translocated and linked to an autosome which causes abnormal meiosis in hybrids. Robertsonian translocations are variations in the numbers of chromosomes that arise from either: the fusion of two acrocentric chromosomes into a single chromosome with two arms, causing a reduction in the haploid number, or conversely; or the fission of one chromosome into two acrocentric chromosomes, in this case increasing the haploid number. The hybrids of two populations with differing numbers of chromosomes can experience a certain loss of fertility, and therefore a poor adaptation, because of irregular meiosis.\n\nA large variety of mechanisms have been demonstrated to reinforce reproductive isolation between closely related plant species that either historically lived or currently live in sympatry. This phenomenon is driven by strong selection against hybrids, typically resulting from instances in which hybrids suffer reduced fitness. Such negative fitness consequences have been proposed to be the result of negative epistasis in hybrid genomes and can also result from the effects of hybrid sterility. In such cases, selection gives rise to population-specific isolating mechanisms to prevent either fertilization by interspecific gametes or the development of hybrid embryos.\n\nBecause many sexually reproducing species of plants are exposed to a variety of interspecific gametes, natural selection has given rise to a variety of mechanisms to prevent the production of hybrids. These mechanisms can act at different stages in the developmental process and are typically divided into two categories, pre-fertilization and post-fertilization, indicating at which point the barrier acts to prevent either zygote formation or development. In the case of angiosperms and other pollinated species, pre-fertilization mechanisms can be further subdivided into two more categories, pre-pollination and post-pollination, the difference between the two being whether or not a pollen tube is formed. (Typically when pollen encounters a receptive stigma, a series of changes occur which ultimately lead to the growth of a pollen tube down the style, allowing for the formation of the zygote.) Empirical investigation has demonstrated that these barriers act at many different developmental stages and species can have none, one, or many barriers to hybridization with interspecifics.\n\nA well-documented example of a pre-fertilization isolating mechanism comes from study of Louisiana iris species. These iris species were fertilized with interspecific and conspecific pollen loads and it was demonstrated by measure of hybrid progeny success that differences in pollen-tube growth between interspecific and conspecific pollen led to a lower fertilization rate by interspecific pollen. This demonstrates how a specific point in the reproductive process is manipulated by a particular isolating mechanism to prevent hybrids.\n\nAnother well-documented example of a pre-fertilization isolating mechanism in plants comes from study of the 2 wind-pollinated birch species. Study of these species led to the discovery that mixed conspecific and interspecific pollen loads still result in 98% conspecific fertilization rates, highlighting the effectiveness of such barriers. In this example, pollen tube incompatibility and slower generative mitosis have been implicated in the post-pollination isolation mechanism.\n\nCrosses between diploid and tetraploid species of Paspalum provide evidence of a post-fertilization mechanism preventing hybrid formation when pollen from tetraploid species was used to fertilize a female of a diploid species. There were signs of fertilization and even endosperm formation but subsequently this endosperm collapsed. This demonstrates evidence of an early post-fertilization isolating mechanism, in which the hybrid early embryo is detected and selectively aborted. This process can also occur later during development in which developed, hybrid seeds are selectively aborted.\n\nPlant hybrids often suffer from an autoimmune syndrome known as hybrid necrosis. In the hybrids, specific gene products contributed by one of the parents may be inappropriately recognized as foreign and pathogenic, and thus trigger pervasive cell death throughout the plant. In at least one case, a pathogen receptor, encoded by the most variable gene family in plants, was identified as being responsible for hybrid necrosis.\n\nIn brewers' yeast \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\", chromosomal rearrangements are a major mechanism to reproductively isolate different strains. Hou et al. showed that reproductive isolation acts postzygotically and could be attributed to chromosomal rearrangements. These authors crossed 60 natural isolates sampled from diverse niches with the reference strain S288c and identified 16 cases of reproductive isolation with reduced offspring viabilities, and identified reciprocal chromosomal translocations in a large fraction of isolates.\n\nIn addition to the genetic causes of reproductive isolation between species there is another factor that can cause post zygotic isolation: the presence of microorganisms in the cytoplasm of certain species. The presence of these organisms in a species and their absence in another causes the non-viability of the corresponding hybrid. For example, in the semi-species of the group \"D. paulistorum\" the hybrid females are fertile but the males are sterile, this is due to the presence of a \"Wolbachia\" in the cytoplasm which alters spermatogenesis leading to sterility. It is interesting that incompatibility or isolation can also arise at an intraspecific level. Populations of \"D. simulans\" have been studied that show hybrid sterility according to the direction of the cross. The factor determining sterility has been found to be the presence or absence of a microorganism \"Wolbachia\" and the populations tolerance or susceptibility to these organisms. This inter population incompatibility can be eliminated in the laboratory through the administration of a specific antibiotic to kill the microorganism. Similar situations are known in a number of insects, as around 15% of species show infections caused by this symbiont. It has been suggested that, in some cases, the speciation process has taken place because of the incompatibility caused by this bacteria. Two wasp species \"Nasonia giraulti\" and \"N. longicornis\" carry two different strains of \"Wolbachia\". Crosses between an infected population and one free from infection produces a nearly total reproductive isolation between the semi-species. However, if both species are free from the bacteria or both are treated with antibiotics there is no reproductive barrier. \"Wolbachia\" also induces incompatibility due to the weakness of the hybrids in populations of spider mites (\"Tetranychus urticae\"), between \"Drosophila recens\" and \"D. subquinaria\" and between species of \"Diabrotica\" (beetle) and \"Gryllus\" (cricket).\n\nIn 1950 K. F. Koopman reported results from experiments designed to examine the hypothesis that selection can increase reproductive isolation between populations. He used \"D. pseudoobscura\" and \"D. persimilis\" in these experiments. When the flies of these species are kept at 16 °C approximately a third of the matings are interspecific. In the experiment equal numbers of males and females of both species were placed in containers suitable for their survival and reproduction. The progeny of each generation were examined in order to determine if there were any interspecific hybrids. These hybrids were then eliminated. An equal number of males and females of the resulting progeny were then chosen to act as progenitors of the next generation. As the hybrids were destroyed in each generation the flies that solely mated with members of their own species produced more surviving descendants than the flies that mated solely with individuals of the other species. In the adjacent table it can be seen that for each generation the number of hybrids continuously decreased up to the tenth generation when hardly any interspecific hybrids were produced. It is evident that selection against the hybrids was very effective in increasing reproductive isolation between these species. From the third generation, the proportions of the hybrids were less than 5%. This confirmed that selection acts to reinforce the reproductive isolation of two genetically divergent populations if the hybrids formed by these species are less well adapted than their parents.\n\nThese discoveries allowed certain assumptions to be made regarding the origin of reproductive isolation mechanisms in nature. Namely, if selection reinforces the degree of reproductive isolation that exists between two species due to the poor adaptive value of the hybrids, it is expected that the populations of two species located in the same area will show a greater reproductive isolation than populations that are geographically separated (see reinforcement). This mechanism for \"reinforcing\" hybridization barriers in sympatric populations is also known as the \"Wallace effect\", as it was first proposed by Alfred Russel Wallace at the end of the 19th century, and it has been experimentally demonstrated in both plants and animals.\n\nThe sexual isolation between \"Drosophila miranda\" and \"D. pseudoobscura\", for example, is more or less pronounced according to the geographic origin of the flies being studied. Flies from regions where the distribution of the species is superimposed show a greater sexual isolation than exists between populations originating in distant regions.\n\nOn the other hand, interspecific hybridization barriers can also arise as a result of the adaptive divergence that accompanies allopatric speciation. This mechanism has been experimentally proved by an experiment carried out by Diane Dodd on \"D. pseudoobscura\". A single population of flies was divided into two, with one of the populations fed with starch-based food and the other with maltose-based food. This meant that each sub population was adapted to each food type over a number of generations. After the populations had diverged over many generations, the groups were again mixed; it was observed that the flies would mate only with others from their adapted population. This indicates that the mechanisms of reproductive isolation can arise even though the interspecific hybrids are not selected against.\n\n\na. The DNA of the mitochondria and chloroplasts is inherited from the maternal line, i.e. all the progeny derived from a particular cross possess the same cytoplasm (and genetic factors located in it) as the female progenitor. This is because the zygote possesses the same cytoplasm as the ovule, although its nucleus comes equally from the father and the mother.\n"}
{"id": "48259148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48259148", "title": "Resuscitative hysterotomy", "text": "Resuscitative hysterotomy\n\nA resuscitative hysterotomy, also referred to as a perimortem Caesarean section (PMCS) or perimortem Caesarean delivery (PMCD), is a hysterotomy performed to resuscitate a woman in middle to late pregnancy who has entered cardiac arrest. Combined with a laparotomy, the procedure results in a Caesarean section that removes the fetus, thereby abolishing the aortocaval compression caused by the pregnant uterus. This improves the mother's chances of return of spontaneous circulation, and may potentially also deliver a viable neonate. The procedure may be performed by obstetricians, emergency physicians or surgeons depending on the situation.\n\nWhere cardiac arrest occurs in a pregnant woman, irrespective of the condition of the fetus, the procedure should be performed immediately if basic and advanced life support attempts are proving unsuccessful at achieving return of spontaneous circulation, and the woman's uterus is deemed capable of causing aortocaval compression. The threshold for this is passed when the uterus is so large that the fundus may be palpated at the level of the woman's umbilicus; for a singleton pregnancy, this occurs at around 20 weeks of gestational age (but may be earlier in multiple pregnancy). Although hysterotomy is crucial for resuscitation of the mother in such situations, if the gestational age is less than approximately 24 to 25 weeks the procedure will necessarily lead to sacrifice of the fetus (or fetuses), as this is estimated to be the lower limit for fetal viability. If the fetus is over 24 weeks' gestation, Caesarean delivery also offers the best chance of rescue for the neonate.\n\nIf the mother's medical condition is such that there is no reasonable prospect of maternal resuscitation or viability (for example, after a nonsurvivable injury, or an unwitnessed arrest with prolonged pulselessness), then the procedure may be attempted immediately as a means of saving the unborn fetus primarily.\n\nThe procedure should not be performed if the uterus is not judged to be large enough to cause maternal haemodynamic changes through aortocaval compression, as there is no potential benefit to the mother and the fetus or fetuses will not be viable in such an early stage of pregnancy.\n\nPotential structures that may be damaged during the procedure are as for Caesarean section, including the fetus itself and the maternal bowel, bladder, uterus and uterine blood vessels.\n\nOnce the decision to operate has been made, the procedure should be performed immediately at the site where cardiac arrest has taken place and standard basic and advanced life support resuscitation methods should continue throughout. These should include manual displacement of the uterus towards the patient's left side, to reduce aortocaval compression. If the arrest occurs in a healthcare facility that has staff on site who are capable of performing a resuscitative hysterotomy (such as at a hospital), the patient should not be moved to an operating theatre as this will delay the procedure. Out-of-hospital cardiac arrests may need to be transported to a healthcare facility first if qualified staff are not immediately available.\n\nOther than a scalpel, no specialised surgical equipment is needed for a resuscitative hysterotomy. The American Heart Association recommends that healthcare facilities that may be required to treat a case of maternal cardiac arrest should keep in stock an emergency equipment tray for the purpose, including a scalpel with a No. 10 blade, a Balfour retractor, surgical sponges, Kelly and Russian forceps, a needle driver, sutures and suture scissors - but the procedure should commence regardless of whether the tray is available.\n\nBasic aseptic measures, such as pouring antiseptic solution over the woman's abdomen prior to incision, may be considered as long as this adds no delay. An assistant should manually displace the gravid uterus to the woman's left throughout the procedure until the fetus has been delivered, to assist the simultaneous efforts of those resuscitating the woman. Either a classical midine incision or a Pfannenstiel incision may be used depending on operator preference; the former may theoretically give better exposure, but practising obstetricians or surgeons may be more comfortable with a Pfannenstiel approach as this is more commonly used for Caesarean sections. Once the uterus is opened, the fetus is delivered and should be resuscitated by a separate team. It may be possible to then use the abdominal incision to deliver direct cardiac massage through the (intact) diaphragm.\n\nAfter the placenta is delivered, the uterus is massaged to stimulate contraction and is closed with a running locking absorbable suture and the abdomen is then closed; alternatively, the wound may be temporarily packed with sterile gauze, with definitive closure delayed until specialist obstetric help arrives or until the patient is fit for transport to a formal operating theatre. Uterotonic agents like oxytocin may be considered, balancing potential reduction of haemorrhage with the tendency of oxytocin to cause hypotension. Antibiotics should be administered to reduce infection risk if maternal survival is thought feasible at this stage of the resuscitation. If there is return of spontaneous circulation, additional uterotonic agents will likely be needed due to bleeding from uterine atony.\n\nThe American Heart Association first added resuscitative hysterotomy to its recommended guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency cardiac care in 1992, based on limited case report evidence. Many case reports have since been published reporting that, in maternal cardiac arrest, evacuation of the uterus is often associated with abrupt return of spontaneous circulation or other improvement in the mother's condition.\n"}
{"id": "29995006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29995006", "title": "Richard Kunze", "text": "Richard Kunze\n\nRichard Kunze (5 February 1872 in Sagan – May 1945) was a German right-wing politician known for his anti-Semitism.\n\nKunze's political career began around 1914 when he was employed by the German Conservative Party along with fellow rightist Wilhelm Kube. Serving the party as general secretary he earned 12,000 marks per month for a role that largely involved travelling Germany drumming up support. Near the end of the war he became involved with the Fatherland Party where he gained the nickname \"Knüpple Kunze\" (Cudgel Kunze) because of strong attacks on the Jews.\n\nAfter the war Kunze was associated with the Deutschvölkischer Schutz und Trutzbund and in 1920 he joined with Reinhold Wulle and Arnold Ruge to form the \"Deutschvölkischen Arbeitsring Berlin\", a short-lived successor group. The group was absorbed by the joined German National People's Party (DNVP) in June 1920 and Kunze joined the DNVP and became the party's chief publicist. However Kunze split from the party in 1921, feeling that it did not match his own hard-line stance on the Jews.\n\nIn 1921 Kunze established his own anti-Semitic party in north Germany known as the German Social Party, an early rival to the Nazi Party on the far right. The new party rejected the monarchism of the DNVP, arguing that Jewish influence had been just as pronounced in the German empire as in the new Weimar Republic. The party became noted for provocative street activities, with Kunze himself becoming a well-known demagogue. However support was lost as Kunze also gained a reputation for using the party as a way to make money for himself, diverting funds into his own pockets and after a number of defections he wound the party up in 1929.\n\nIn 1930 Kunze joined his old rivals as a member of the Nazi Party. Kunze was elected to the Preußischer Landtag as a Nazi delegate in 1932 and in the November 1933 he was elected to the Reichstag, serving in what by then had become a perfunctory institution until 1945.\n\nKunze was arrested after the Battle of Berlin but went missing in May 1945 and was presumed dead.\n"}
{"id": "9507907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9507907", "title": "Samyama", "text": "Samyama\n\nSamyama (from Sanskrit संयम saṃ-yama—holding together, tying up, binding, integration). Combined simultaneous practice of Dhāraṇā (concentration), Dhyāna (meditation) & Samādhi (union). A tool to receive deeper knowledge of qualities of the object. It is a term summarizing the \"catch-all\" process of psychological absorption in the object of meditation.\n\n\"Samyama\", as Patanjali's Yoga Sutras states, engenders prajñā. Adi Yoga or Mahasandhi discusses the 'mūla prajñā' of \"listening/studying, investigation/contemplation, realization/meditation\" which are a transposition of the triune of Samyama. These are activated subconsciously in \"non-structured form\" (thus producing fragmented spontaneous Samyama-like effects) by any thinking activity or contemplative absorption (particularly the Catuskoti and Koan) and deep levels of trance. Any kind of intuitive thinking at its various stages of expression is strongly related to Samyama-like phenomena as well.\n\nSamyama is practiced consistently by Yogin of certain schools (Raja Yoga, Adi Yoga e.g.). Described in Yoga Sutras of Patanjali, it comprises the three upper limbs of Raja Yoga. Following Patanjali's Yoga Sutras, a yogin who is victorious in samyama vanquishes all 'cognitive obscurations' (Sanskrit: klesha). The Sutras describe various 'powers' or 'perfections' (Sanskrit: siddhi) a yogin may attain through the conduit of Samyama.\n\nSamyama is defined in the \"Yoga Sutras\" of Patanjali verses 3.1 through 3.6 as follows where the Sanskrit in Devanagari and IAST were sourced from Little and the English from Iyengar (1993: pp. 178–183):\n<poem>\nदेशबन्धश्चित्तस्य धारणा ॥ १॥ \ndeśabandhaścittasya dhāraṇā .. 1..\nFixing the consciousness on one point or region is concentration (dhāraṇā).\n\nतत्र प्रत्ययैकतानता ध्यानम् ॥ २॥ \ntatra pratyayaikatānatā dhyānam .. 2..\nA steady, continuous flow of attention directed towards the same point or region is meditation (dhyāna).\n\nतद् एवार्थमात्रनिर्भासं स्वरूपशून्यम् इव समाधिः ॥ ३॥ \ntad evārthamātranirbhāsaṃ svarūpaśūnyam iva samādhiḥ .. 3..\nWhen the object of meditation engulfs the meditator, appearing as the subject, self-awareness is lost. This is samādhi.\n\nत्रयम् एकत्र संयमः ॥ ४॥ \ntrayam ekatra saṃyamaḥ .. 4.. \nThese three together [dhāraṇā, dhyāna and samādhi] constitute integration or saṃyama.\n\nतज्जयात् प्रज्ञालोकः ॥ ५॥ \ntajjayāt prajñālokaḥ .. 5..\nFrom mastery of saṃyama comes the light of awareness and insight.\n\nतस्य भूमिषु विनियोगः ॥ ६॥ \ntasya bhūmiṣu viniyogaḥ .. 6..\nSaṃyama may be applied in various spheres to derive its usefulness.\n</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "18944527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18944527", "title": "Satake Yoshishige", "text": "Satake Yoshishige\n\n"}
{"id": "340927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340927", "title": "Shenzhou 5", "text": "Shenzhou 5\n\nShenzhou 5 () — was the first human spaceflight mission of the Chinese space program, launched on 15 October 2003. The Shenzhou spacecraft was launched on a Long March 2F launch vehicle. There had been four previous flights of unmanned Shenzhou missions since 1999. China became the third country in the world to have independent human spaceflight capability after the Soviet Union (later, Russia) and the United States.\n\n\nThe launch was widely heralded in the official Chinese state media with newspapers devoting far more space to the launch than any recent event. While the Chinese media portrayed the launch as a triumph for Chinese science and technology and a milestone for Chinese nationalism, it has also been pointed out in both Chinese and Western media that Yang Liwei showed the flag of the United Nations in addition to the flag of the People's Republic of China. The state media also reported that crop seeds from Taiwan were brought aboard the spacecraft.\n\nGeneral Secretary and President Hu Jintao, in an official celebration at the Great Hall of the People, hailed China's success in launching its first manned spacecraft into orbit, describing it as \"an honor for our great motherland, an indicator for the initial victory of the country's first manned space flight and for an historic step taken by the Chinese people in their endeavor to surmount the peak of the world's science and technology.\"\n\nHu added, \"the Party and the people will never forget those who have set up this outstanding merit in the space industry for the motherland, the people and the nation.\" He also expressed congratulations and respect to specialists and people who have contributed to China's space mission development on behalf of the CPC Central Committee, the State Council and the Central Military Commission (CMC).\n\nThe launch was met with praise from around the world. For example, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan called the launch \"a great feat\". United States President George W. Bush congratulated Chinese President Hu and wished China continued success. U.S. State Department spokesman said that the United States wished to \"applaud China's success in becoming only the third country to launch people into space\".\nNASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe called Shenzhou 5 an \"important achievement in human exploration\" and wished China \"a continued safe human space flight program.\"\n\nThe spacecraft has since featured prominently in festivities and celebrations not only in China but also in foreign countries, such as official North Korean commemorative stamps showing the first Chinese manned spacecraft alongside the DPRK's first satellite Kwangmyŏngsŏng-1.\n\n"}
{"id": "27277885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27277885", "title": "Teloblast", "text": "Teloblast\n\nA teloblast is a large cell in the embryos of clitellate annelids which asymmetrically divide to form many smaller cells known as blast cells. These blast cells further proliferate and differentiate to form the segmental tissues of the annelid. Teloblasts are well studied in leeches, though they are also present in the other major class of clitellates: the oligochaetes.\n\nAll teloblasts are specified from the D quadrant macromere after the second round of divisions post-fertilization. There are five pairs of teloblasts, one on each side of the embryo. Four of the teloblasts (N, O, P, and Q) give rise to ectodermal tissue and one pair (M) gives rise to mesodermal tissue. The column of blast cells arising out of each teloblast is known as a bandlet. All five bandlets coalesce into one germinal band on each side of the embryo, extending out from the teloblast towards the head (in the rostral direction). The teloblasts are located at the rear of the embryo.\n\nTeloblasts have two separate cytoplasmic domains: the teloplasm and the vitelloplasm. The teloplasm contains the nucleus, ribosomes, mitochondria, and other subcellular organelles. The vitelloplasm contains mostly yolk platelets. Only the teloplasm gets passed onto the daughter stem cells after cell division.\n\nThe O and P teloblasts are specified from two separate but identical precursors, which form an equivalence group These two precursor cells are termed O/P cells for their ability to become either O or P teloblasts. Signals from the surrounding cells act to specify which fate the teloblasts and their progeny take on. Interactions with the q bandlet, however transient, can induce the p fate in the adjacent o/p bandlet. The M bandlet has been shown to In some species (i.e. Helobdella triserialis), the provisional epithelium covering the cells plays a role in inducing the O fate. In the absence of cell-cell interactions, the O/P precursors will become O teloblasts. O and P bandlets exhibit very different mitotic patterns (see figure) which are used to identify them in experimental manipulations.\n\nThe N and Q teloblasts contribute two blast cells per segment, one making up the anterior half of the segment, the second making up the posterior half of the segment. The O, P, and M lineages contribute one blast cell per segment, but the contributions from each blast cell spans a segmental boundary. These segmental boundaries were discovered by injecting teloblasts with cell lineage tracers after a few blast cells have already been generated. During development, the N and Q bandlets, which eventually have 64 blast cells each, slide past the O,P,and M bandlet, which only have 32 cells. Thus, the segmental boundaries within each bandlet are already specified before all the bandlets come into complete register.\n"}
{"id": "29874966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29874966", "title": "Thallophycoides", "text": "Thallophycoides\n\nThallophycoides is an undifferentiated, globular, non-mineralized alga from the Ediacaran period.\n"}
{"id": "5775179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5775179", "title": "The Pokémon Company", "text": "The Pokémon Company\n\nThe company has separate divisions that handle operations in different areas of the world, with The Pokémon Company International supporting the territories outside Asia. In South Korea, the operations are handled by Pokémon Korea, Inc. In other Asian territories such as Thailand and Vietnam, the operations are handled by Pokémon Asia.\n\nIn 1998, Nintendo, Creatures, and Game Freak established The Pokémon Center Company in order to effectively manage the Pokémon Center stores in Japan. After the popularity of \"Pokémon Gold\" and \"Silver\", they received many merchandising proposals from around the world. Companies were interested in working with the Pokémon brand. At that time, Tsunekazu Ishihara of Creatures was the person in charge of approving licensed products. Because of the sheer volume of products, Ishihara thought it was too much work for one person to handle. At the same time, in order for the franchise to continue, Ishihara wished to further expand the franchise with long-term goals, such as continuing the anime series and releasing a movie every year. It was then decided that a new organization was needed in order to gather together all the strands of brand management.\n\nThis led the three companies to turn The Pokémon Center Company into The Pokémon Company and further expand its responsibilities and areas of business. According to Satoru Iwata, establishing The Pokémon Company was one of his first projects at Nintendo.\n\nManaging the Pokémon Center stores is still a pillar for the company. In total, there are stores in 11 locations: Sapporo, Tohoku (Sendai), Tokyo, Skytree Town (Oshiage), Tokyo-Bay (Chiba), Yokohama, Nagoya, Kyoto, Osaka, Hiroshima and Fukuoka.\n\nThe United States branch (Pokémon USA, Inc.) opened in 2001 to handle licensing overseas. Nintendo Australia does all licensing and marketing of \"Pokémon\" products in Australia and New Zealand, as The Pokémon Company does not have an Australian branch.\n\nSince 2001, nearly all licensed \"Pokémon\" products have \"©Pokémon\" in the copyright acknowledgments with the usual three of \"©Nintendo\", \"©GAME FREAK inc.\" and \"©Creatures Inc.\" Despite this, Nintendo is the sole owner of the Pokémon trademark. The video games, \"Pokémon Trading Card Game\" and licensed toys are still being made by third- and second-party companies such as Tomy.\n\nIn October 2001, 4Kids Entertainment (now known as 4Licensing Corporation) acquired a 3% stake in The Pokémon Company for an undisclosed sum. They liquidated this stake 4 years later for US$960,000.\n\nIn 2006, Pokémon Korea, Inc. was founded to manage the company's operations in South Korea. Its headquarters are located in Seoul.\n\nIn 2009, Pokémon USA and Pokémon UK merged to become The Pokémon Company International, which handles American and European Pokémon operations under the administration of Kenji Okubo. The company's offices in the United States are in Bellevue, Washington and its offices in the United Kingdom are in London. Australian operations are controlled by Nintendo Australia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34318239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34318239", "title": "Tsarevich Dmitry Ivanovich of Russia (1552–1553)", "text": "Tsarevich Dmitry Ivanovich of Russia (1552–1553)\n\nDmitri Ivanovich (; 11 October 155226 June 1553) was the first Tsarevich or Tsesarevich - the heir apparent - of the Tsardom of Russia, as the eldest son of Ivan the Terrible, or \"Ivan IV of Russia\" and his first Tsaritsa, Anastasia Romanovna. He was the third child and first son of the couple and died in infancy.\n\nIvan became Grand Prince of Moscow at the age of three, in 1533. At his coronation, on 16 January 1547, the sixteen-year-old Ivan resurrected the title of Tsar, occasionally used by his grandfather and namesake, Ivan III of Moscow. Holding all of the power in his empire, he could choose his bride. He eventually picked Anastasia Romanovna, the daughter of a wealthy boyar. Throughout the first four years of their marriage, Anastasia presented Ivan with two daughters, Anna and Maria. Both died in infancy, Anna at the age of eleven months and Maria before her sixth month. However, on 11 October 1552, Anastasia gave birth to a son, whom they named Dmitri, presumably after ancestor Dmitri Donskoy. During a severe illness, Ivan asked the boyars to take an oath, making his infant son his heir apparent and the first Tsesarevich. However, the boyars were not very happy about this, as they wanted to see Ivan's cousin, Vladimir of Staritsa, succeed but they reluctantly accepted. Historians cannot agree whether this episode occurred in 1552 or 1553.\n\nIn the summer of 1553, Ivan proposed a pilgrimage to Kirillo-Belozersky Monastery, near the present-day village of Kirillov. While on the Sora River, the royal boat was hit by a wave, it overturned and the Tsesarevich was dropped by his wet nurse. The adults managed to escape, but by the time they got to the baby, Dmitri had drowned. \"The Chronicle\" records that Maximus the Greek, who had recently visited Ivan, foresaw the death of the Tsesarevich. According to Andrey Kurbsky, Maximus had told Ivan that \"he should not go such a long way with his wife and newborn lad\".\n\nDmitri was interred in the Archangel Cathedral. After his death, Anastasia would have three more children, two of whom would survive infancy. Ivan's youngest son by his last wife was named Dmitry after his eldest son who had died more than thirty years before.\n"}
{"id": "50533059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50533059", "title": "Use of beta-adrenergic agonists livestock", "text": "Use of beta-adrenergic agonists livestock\n\nBeta-adrenergic agonists, or β-agonists, are non-hormonal growth promotants that help animals put on muscle instead of fat. Ractopamine (brand names include Optaflexx and Paylean) and zilpaterol (brand name Zilmax) received FDA approval in 1999 and 2003, respectively. They are also approved in Mexico, South Africa, and Canada. 160 countries restrict the importation of beef which has been raised with β-agonists. Temple Grandin was one of the first to describe the potential problems with the supplement. Cattle may arrive at the plant with a stiff gait, acting like they have both stiff muscles and sore feet. The problem could be muscle fatigue. Zilpateral enhances the growth of “fast-twitch” fibers, a type of muscle fiber that fatigues more easily. On August 16, 2013 Merck and Co., the makers of Zilmax, suspended the sale of the product in the US and Canada. But problems may exist with all β-agonists supplementation, and not just for animals.\n\nThe family of β-agonists includes β1-, β2-, and β3-agonists such as clenbuterol, ractopamine, cimaterol, zilpaterol and salbutamol. They possess similar chemical structures with different substituent groups on the phenyl ethanolamines. Due to their significant nutrition redistribution function, β-agonists have been applied in the livestock industry such as pigs and ruminants to reduce carcass fat and increase muscle mass while improving growth rate and feed conversion (Bareille and Faverdin, 1996, Bergen et al., 1989, Byrem et al., 1998, Cardoso and Taveira, 2002, Shook et al., 2009 and Williams et al., 1987). Unfortunately, β-agonists deposited in animal tissues can cause acute poisoning when consumed by humans, particularly in people with symptoms of muscular tremors, cardiac palpitation, nervousness, headache, muscular pain, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, fever and chills (Brambilla et al., 2000). Therefore, the use of β-agonists in animal feeds has been banned in many countries such as the EU and China (Mitchell and Dunnavan, 1998 and Prezelj et al., 2003). There are still illicit usages of β-agonists in animal feeds in many countries.\n\nBroad screening and identification of β-agonists in feed and animal body fluid and tissues using ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole-orbitrap high resolution mass spectrometry combined with spectra library search\n• Tingting Lia, 1, \n• Jingjing Caob, 1, \n• Zhen Lib, \n• Xian Wanga, \n• Pingli Hea, \n\nBroad screening and identification of β-agonists in feed, serum, urine, muscle and liver samples was achieved in a quick and highly sensitive manner using ultra high performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole-orbitrap high resolution mass spectrometry (UHPLC-Q-Orbitrap HRMS) combined with a spectra library search. Solid-phase extraction technology was employed for sample purification and enrichment. After extraction and purification, the samples were analyzed using a Q-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometer under full-scan and data-dependent MS/MS mode. The acquired mass spectra were compared with an in-house library (compound library and MS/MS mass spectral library) built with TraceFinder Software which contained the M/Z of the precursor ion, chemical formula, retention time, character fragment ions and the entire MS/MS spectra of 32 β-agonist standards. Screening was achieved by comparing 5 key mass spectral results and positive matches were marked. Using the developed method, the identification results from 10 spiked samples and 238 actual samples indicated that only 2% of acquired mass spectra produced false identities. The method validation results showed that the limit of detection ranged from 0.021–3.854 μg kg−1and 0.015–1.198 ng mL−1 for solid and liquid samples, respectively.\n"}
{"id": "455199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455199", "title": "White guilt", "text": "White guilt\n\nWhite guilt is the individual or collective guilt felt by some white people for harm resulting from racist treatment of ethnic minorities by other white people both historically and currently in the United States and to a lesser extent in Canada, South Africa and the United Kingdom. White guilt has been described as one of the psychosocial costs of racism for white individuals along with empathy (sadness and anger) for victims of racism and fear of non-whites.\n\nJudith Katz, the author of the 1978 publication \"White Awareness: Handbook for Anti-Racism Training\", is critical of what she calls self-indulgent white guilt fixations. Her concerns about white guilt led her to move from black-white group encounters to all-white groups in her anti-racism training. She also avoided using non-white people to re-educate whites, she said, because she found that this led whites to focus on getting acceptance and forgiveness rather than changing their own actions or beliefs.\n\nA report in \"The Washington Post\" from 1978 describes the exploitation of white guilt by con artists:\n\"Telephone and mail solicitors, trading on 'white guilt' and on government pressure to advertise in minority-oriented publications, are inducing thousands of businessmen to buy ads in phony publications.\"\n\nShelby Steele, a conservative black political writer, discussed the concept in his 2006 book \".\" Steele criticizes \"white guilt\" saying that it is nothing more than an alternative interpretation of the concept of \"black power\":\nWhites (and American institutions) must acknowledge historical racism to show themselves redeemed by it, but once they acknowledge it, they lose moral authority over everything having to do with race, equality, social justice, poverty and so on. [...] The authority they lose transfers to the 'victims' of historical racism and becomes their great power in society. This is why white guilt is quite literally the same thing as Black power.\n\nGeorge F. Will, a conservative American political columnist, wrote: \"[White guilt is] a form of self-congratulation, where whites initiate \"compassionate policies\" toward people of color, to showcase their innocence to racism.\"\n\nCommentator Sunny Hundal, writing for \"The Guardian\", stated that it is \"reductionist\" to assign political opinions to a collective guilt such as \"white guilt\" and that few people on the left actually hold the views being ascribed to them by the conservative writers who expound on the concept of \"white guilt\" and its implications. Hundal concludes: \"Not much annoys me more than the stereotype that to be liberal is to be full of guilt. To be socially liberal, in my view, is to be more mindful of \"compassion\" and \"empathy\" for others … to label that simply as guilt is just... insulting\". \n\nOne academic paper suggests that in France, white guilt may be a common feature of management of race relations – in contrast to other European countries.\n\nIn 2015, when American civil rights activist Rachel Dolezal was revealed to have been posing as African American, \"Washington Post\" journalist Krissah Thompson described her as \"an archetype of white guilt played to its end\". Thompson discussed the issue with psychologist Derald Wing Sue, an expert on racial identity, who suggested that Dolezal had become so fascinated by racism and racial justice issues that she \"over-identified\" with black people.\n\n\n"}
