{"id": "32085211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32085211", "title": "Afro-Paraguayan", "text": "Afro-Paraguayan\n\nAfro-Paraguayan are Paraguayans of African descent. They can be found in Camba Cua outside Asuncion; Kamba Kokue outside Paraguari, and the city of Emboscada. Currently, the Afro-Paraguayan population accounts for 1% of the total population.\n\nThe first African slaves arrived at Paraguay in 1556. The majority of the slaves were of Nigerian and Angolan origin, like other black people from any South American country. Thus, according to Argentine historian José Ignacio Telesca, the slaves that entered legally came from the esclavistas ports of Buenos Aires, Montevideo and Córdoba, while those that entered illegally came from Brazil. Thus, the Spanish explorer Pedro de Mendoza - who reached the Rio de Plata in the 16th century and was appointed its viceroy - brought enslaved Africans to Paraguay to settle them in that place. According to the aforementioned Telesca, more than 4% of the population were slaves in colonial times, keeping the same percentage in the 19th century after independence. However, according to the Kamba Cuá \"Afro Paraguayan Association\", in 1782, the black population represented 11.2 percent of the total population of the then Province of Paraguay.\n\nThis population continued to increase, as already in 1811, according to Telesca, half of the Paraguayan population was of African descent, whether slave or free. So, several towns like Aregua, Emboscada (in English: \"Ambush\"), and Guarambare were established as black communities.\n\nAlso, with the arrival of Artigas' also arrived, curiously, people of Kamba ethnicity, a Kenyan ethnic group, from Uruguay, who settled in Paraguay in the 1820s. They arrived in a regiment of 250 spearmen, men and women, who accompanied General Jose Gervasio Artigas, the revolutionary leader of the now Uruguay, in his exile in Paraguay.\nThe Kamba Cua were dispossessed of their land by General Higinio Morinigo in the 1940s. Of his 100 hectares they stayed with 3 hectares.\n\nAlthough according official estimates, the Afro-Paraguayan population accounts for 2% of the total population, the Afro Paraguayan Association Kamba Cuá, supported by the Department of Statistics, Surveys and Censuses (Dgeec) and the U.S. and state IAF, estimated the number of Afro-Paraguayan people at only 8,013, equivalent to 0.13 percent of the 6.1 million inhabitants of Paraguay. This census indicates specifically that there are 422 people in Kamba Cua, 385 people in Kamba Kokué, and more than 7,000 people in Emboscada: 2,686 in urban areas and 4,524 in rural areas and 58% of the total population are of African descent. So, of the total of African descent, 5.6 percent live in Kamba Cuá, 4,9 percent in Kamba Kokue and 89.5 percent in Emboscada.\n\nThe census also shows that they are virtually matched for sex and they have a predominantly young population: 63% at that time were under 30 years old. All those of African descent speak Guarani, like the rest of the Paraguayans. The illiteracy rate stands at 7.4%, and of that percentage, 58% are women. The number of people who have come to attend the first through to sixth grade accounted for 60% and those who have reached university level only 1%.\n\nNote that the results are incomplete, since the census did not reach all residents, especially in Emboscada; in addition, some residents surveyed did not identify themselves as Afro apart from other concentrations of African descent Paraguayan and individuals of African descent throughout the country that were not included in the census.\n\nAs already mentioned, there are three communities of Afro-Paraguayan: the Kamba Cuá, in the Central Department (outside Asuncion), Kamba Kokue, meaning \"chacra de negros\" (farm of blacks) in Guarani language, and is situated in the Paraguarí Department, and Emboscada, in the Cordillera Department. The three communities are in the eastern region. The origins of these settlements dates back to the Spanish colonial period.\n\nKamba Cuá is the place having the most important Afro Paraguayan community. This place, in the Central Department, is populated by so-called Artigas Cue -or \"black of Kamba Cuá\"-, which are descended from the Kamba people (a Kenyan ethnic group). They arrived in Paraguay as members of a regiment of 250 spearmen, men and women, who accompanied General Jose Gervasio Artigas, the independence´s leading revolutionary of the Eastern Band (the current Uruguay) in his exile in Paraguay in 1820. After having arrived in Asunción, they settled in the Campamento Loma area, practising dairy and secondary agriculture. However, in the 1940s, they were dispossessed of their land by General Higinio Morinigo. Of his 100 hectares they stayed with 3 hectares. However, the community survived, kept his chapel and dances, created a football club (\"Jan Six-ro\") and one school of drum and dance for children. His ballet is the only Afro-Paraguayan expression, and premiered at the Folk Festival peach \"Uruguay Yi sings in\" 1992, where it won the \"Golden charrúa\". Their original lands at Campamento Loma remained vacant, and Kamba Cuá recently occupied them and planted manioc, but by the government decision of Was mosy (postStroessner), were accused of bring \"terrorists\" and were beaten and evicted.\n\nToday, according official estimates, about 300 families (between 1,200 and 2,500 people) live in Kumba Cuá. However, according censuses of the Afro Paraguayan Association Kamba Cuá, this community consists of only 422 people. Religion is an integral part of daily life. Currently they are Catholic. His saint is San Benito of Palermo and King San Baltazar, who came from Uruguay. Their main festival is celebrated on 6 January each year at the community's social club named after the patron saint. The important ballet artistic expressions of the Kamba Kua and culinary arts of this community have been maintained for nearly 180 years. \nTheir oral tradition recalls that many of them participated and died in the defensive war against the Triple Alliance (1865–69), which destroyed Paraguay.\nThey keep memories of their history, passed down from generation to generation, hold dances like \"candombe\", dedicated to San Baltasar, and drumming. So, this community is the best known of African descent in Paraguay for having preserved their identity and culture, promoted through its traditional festivals.\n\nEmboscada (in Spanish: \"Ambush\"), a city that now has about 14,000 inhabitants, was founded in 1740 under the name of \"Emboscada de Pardos libres \"(Free Pardos ambush), because it was a point of frequent ambushes and because early settlers were 500 brown (black and mestizos) freedmen.\n\nKamba Kokue, in the Paraguarí Department, was also founded by black communities, from ranches of slaves of the religious missionaries of the Catholic Society of Jesus, better known as the Jesuit order. Also towns or villages as Aregua, Emboscada, and Guarambaré were established as black communities.\n\nThe United Nations declared 2011 the International Year of People of African Descent in order to strengthen national policies and international cooperation for the benefit of this group to achieve, in theory, the satisfaction of all their rights, their participation and integration in all political, economic, social and cultural aspects of society, and promote greater understanding and respect for the diverse heritage and culture of these people.\n\nIn this context in Paraguay has been developing the tour of a show called \"Negritud de colores\" (Negritude Colors) that runs different cities. It is a show of Afro-Latin American music and dance scene that rises to 25 artists to develop a wide repertoire of songs, chants and dances with rescued African roots of this continent. The Paraguayan singer Mariví Vargas, the team of musicians and a group of drummers and dancers Kamba Cua led by Lazaro Medina offer a show that aims to bring African culture and make visible the collective African descent.\n\nShowing and themes from Argentina, Peru, Colombia, Puerto Rico, Uruguay, Mexico and Cuba and of course of Paraguay, with the presentation of the galloping \"San Baltasar\" and \"Kamba la Merce,\" a rich description of the dances related popular culture afroparaguaya, plus rhythms Kamba Cua group like-Pitiki Guarimba pitiki and gallops.\n\n"}
{"id": "24812249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24812249", "title": "Al-Mansur al-Qasim", "text": "Al-Mansur al-Qasim\n\nAl-Mansur al-Qasim (November 13, 1559 – February 19, 1620), with the cognomen \"al-Kabir\" (the Great), was an Imam of Yemen, who commenced the struggle to liberate Yemen from the Ottoman occupiers. He was the founder of a Zaidi kingdom that endured, under many vicissitudes, until 1962.\n\nAl-Qasim bin Muhammad was a fourteenth-generation descendant of the imam ad-Da'i Yusuf (d. 1012). His father supported the imam al-Mutahhar (d. 1572), who fought the encroaching Ottomans with partial success but who was finally defeated in 1569-1570. Al-Qasim was a religious teacher at the Dawud mosque in San'a at a time when the Ottoman grip on Yemen was severely felt. The Turks promoted the Sunni legal tradition of Hanafi, at the expense of the Zaydiyyah which dominated in the highlands of Yemen. One of al-Qasim's pupils suggested him to claim the Zaidi imamate, which he first declined. The suspicions of the Turks were however raised, and al-Qasim fled San'a, finally setting forth his claim (da'wah) to the imamate in Hajur in the north-west in September 1597.\n\nIn his theological thinking al-Mansur al-Qasim upheld the Shia foundations of Zaydiyyah by stressing the eighth-century Jarudi position to the imamate which considered the first two caliphs as usurpers. He emphasized the differences between Zaydiyyah and the Mu'tazila school of theology, which laid stress on reason and rational thought, whereas some previous Yemeni imams had noted the similarities. He argued that the early imams had limited their prescriptions to what could be traced to reason, the unambiguous Qur'an text, and the generally accepted Sunnah. These imams, he argued, did not follow the Mu'tazila in their speculations and fantasies. Al-Mansur al-Qasim was also hostile to Sufism, one reason being that the Sufi orders supported the Ottoman occupants. He branded the Sufis as heretics and likened them to Ismailites, traditional enemies of the Zaidis.\n\nAlthough supported by the Ahnumi tribesmen, al-Qasim's first years of struggle were difficult. Strong action by the Ottoman forces reduced the imam to despair by 1604. Then, however, the emir of the important stronghold Hajjah in the western mountains chose to support al-Qasim. From this point the forces of the imamate held the initiative. In 1607 the Ottoman governor Sinan made an agreement with al-Qasim, where the latter was granted possession of the areas in the northern highlands which he had subdued. Infighting among the Turkish administrators in 1613 left the north of the country exposed to the forces of the imam, and the important city Sa'dah fell in 1617. Two years later a new truce was concluded that confirmed the expanded realm of al-Qasim. By this time he controlled the entire area between Sana'a and Sa'dah. When he died in 1620, the city of San'a and the coastal region Tihamah were still in Ottoman hands. It was left to his son and successor al-Mu'ayyad Muhammad (r. 1620-1644) to expel them entirely. By this time the Yemenis possessed firearms which, together with the poor quality of local Ottoman soldiery and strong local discontent with taxation, ensured military successes against the occupiers. Although the Zaidi imamate is not strictly speaking hereditary, but depends on the qualifications and Sayyid ancestry of the claimant, al-Mansur al-Qasim actually founded a dynasty, known after him as the Qasimids.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55588718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55588718", "title": "Baly Medal", "text": "Baly Medal\n\nThe Baly Medal is a biennial award awarded by the Royal College of Physicians of London.\n\nFounded by a gift from Frederick Daniel Dyster (1809?–93) received in 1866, confirmed by deed 1930 – in memory of William Baly: £400 to provide a gold medal for the person deemed to have most distinguished himself in the science of physiology, especially during the previous two years. The award is made every alternate year on the recommendation of the President and Council at the Quarterly Meeting in July and presented on the occasion of the Harveian Oration.\n\nSource 1871-1911 RCP\n\n"}
{"id": "35856721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35856721", "title": "Bisu language", "text": "Bisu language\n\nBisu () is a Loloish language of Thailand, with a couple thousand speakers in China. Varieties are Bisu proper (Mbisu) and Laomian (Guba), considered by Pelkey to be distinct languages.\n\nThe Laomian are classified within the Lahu ethnic group; the Lahu proper call them the \"Lawmeh\" (Bradley 2007).\n\nAccording to \"Bisuyu Yanjiu\" 毕苏语研究 (2002), there are over 5,000 Bisu speakers in Yunnan, China, and a total of nearly 10,000 Bisu speakers in all countries combined. Within Yunnan, it is spoken mostly in Pu'er Prefecture, as well as neighboring parts of Xishuangbanna.\n\n\nIn Thailand, two dialects of Bisu are spoken in the following villages of Phan District, Chiang Rai Province (\"Bisuyu Yanjiu\" 2002:152).\n\nAnother variety of Bisu differing from the Phayao variety is spoken in Takɔ (Ban Thako), Mae Suai District, Chiang Rai Province.\n\nIn Laos, Bisu (\"pi33 su44\"; also called Lao-Phai) is spoken in Phudokcham village, Phongxaly District.\n\n\nLink to the New Testament in Bisu: https://www.bible.com/bible/1705/JHN.1.bzint\n"}
{"id": "56675620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56675620", "title": "Błudnik", "text": "Błudnik\n\nBłudnik is a demon in Slavic mythology, dwelling the region of Łużyce. It was said to be a mischievous gnome who used to lead people astray and decoy them into swamps.\n"}
{"id": "2286879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2286879", "title": "Cacaopera language", "text": "Cacaopera language\n\nCacaopera is an extinct language belonging to the Misumalpan family, formerly spoken in the department of Morazán in El Salvador. It was closely related to Matagalpa, and slightly more distantly to Sumo, but was geographically separated from other Misumalpan languages.\n\nThe last semi-speakers of Cacaopera lived in the 1970s. All native speakers had died before this time.\n\n"}
{"id": "24604203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24604203", "title": "Damakawa", "text": "Damakawa\n\nThe Damakawa are an ethnic group of about 500-1000 people in northwest Nigeria. They live in three villages near Maganda in Sakaba Local Government Area, Kebbi State. They used to speak the Damakawa language, but have now shifted to C'Lela.\n\n"}
{"id": "3218690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3218690", "title": "East Fijian languages", "text": "East Fijian languages\n\nThe East Fijian languages are a subgroup of the Central Pacific (Fijian–Polynesian) languages. They are four: Fijian, Gone Dau, Lauan and Lomaiviti all spoken within Fiji.\n\nThe West Fijian languages are more closely related to Rotuman, and East Fijian to the Polynesian, than they are to each other, but contact has caused them to converge.\n"}
{"id": "34318494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34318494", "title": "Eufunction", "text": "Eufunction\n\nIn sociology, a social institution has eufunctions (or \"helpful functions\"; the Greek word \"eu\" means \"well\") when some of its aspects contribute to the maintenance or survival of another social activity. In the complexity of a society, any particular activity can have good and/or bad consequences and it can be associated to eufunctions or dysfunctions.\nIn the last decades the term eufunction is becoming obsolete, because the notion of function refers to any kind of activity helping or disturbing the maintenance of social stability.\n\n"}
{"id": "24014479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24014479", "title": "Euskal Herriak Bere Eskola", "text": "Euskal Herriak Bere Eskola\n\nEuskal Herriak Bere Eskola (\"The Basque Country its own School\" in Basque language) or EHBE is a Basque education organization that works for a school system based on Basque language and culture. It wants to engage with other historical Basque educational organizations, as UEU, ikastolas or student activism. It was created in 2002.\n\nSince 2002 EHBE has been involved in many campaigns, specially on mobilization on different topics:\n"}
{"id": "56916614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56916614", "title": "Experimental epidemiology", "text": "Experimental epidemiology\n\nExperimental epidemiology is a type of epidemiological investigation that uses an experimental model to confirm a causal relationship suggested by observational studies. It studies the relationships of various factors determining the frequency and distribution of diseases in a community.\n\nThere are three case types in experimental epidemiology: randomized controlled trial, typically used for new medicine or drug testing; field trial, which is conducted on those at high risk of contracting a disease; and community trial, in which research is conducted on an entire community or neighborhood. Randomized controlled trial determines the efficacy of a particular treatment, while other trials may be preventive intervention.\n\nExperimental epidemiology employs prospective population experiments designed to test epidemiological hypotheses, and usually attempts to relate the postulated cause to the observed effect. Trials of new anthelmintics are an example. Intervention or experimentation involves attempting to change a variable in one or more groups of people. This could mean eliminating a dietary factor thought to cause allergy, or testing a new treatment on a selected group of patients. The effects of an intervention are measured by comparing the result in the experimental group with that in a control group.\n"}
{"id": "312678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312678", "title": "Footpath", "text": "Footpath\n\nA footpath (also pedestrian way, walking trail, nature trail) is a type of thoroughfare that is intended for use only by pedestrians and not other forms of traffic such as motorized vehicles, cycles, and horses. They can be found in a wide variety of places, from the centre of cities, to farmland, to mountain ridges. Urban footpaths are usually paved, may have steps, and can be called alleys, lanes, steps, etc.\n\nNational parks, nature preserves, conservation areas and other protected wilderness areas may have footpaths (trails) that are restricted to pedestrians. The term footpath can also describe a pavement/sidewalk in some English-speaking countries (such as Australia and the Republic of Ireland).\n\nA footpath can also take the form of a footbridge, linking two places across a river. \nPublic footpaths are rights of way originally created by people walking across the land to work, market, the next village, church, and school. This includes Mass paths and Corpse roads. Some footpaths were also created by those undertaking a pilgrimage. Examples of the latter are the Pilgrim's Way in England and Pilgrim's Route (St. Olav's Way or the Old Kings' Road) in Norway. Some landowners allow access over their land without dedicating a right of way. These permissive paths are often indistinguishable from normal paths, but they are usually subject to restrictions. Such paths are often closed at least once a year, so that a permanent right of way cannot be established in law.\n\nA mass path is a pedestrian track or road connecting destinations frequently used by rural communities, most usually the destination of Sunday Mass. They were most common during the centuries that preceded motorised transportation in Western Europe, and in particular the British Isles and the Netherlands (where such a path is called \"kerkenpad\" (lit. Church path). Mass paths typically included stretches crossing fields of neighboring farmers and were likely to contain stiles, when crossing fences or other boundaries, or plank footbridges to cross ditches. Some mass paths are still used today in the Republic of Ireland, but are usually subject to Ireland's complicated rights of way law.\n\nCorpse roads provided a practical means for transporting corpses, often from remote communities, to cemeteries that had burial rights, such as parish churches and chapels of ease. In Great Britain, such routes can also be known by a number of other names: bier road, burial road, coffin road, coffin line, lyke or lych way, funeral road, procession way, corpse way, etc.\n\nNowadays footpaths are mainly used for recreation and have been frequently linked together, along with bridle paths and newly created footpaths, to create long distance trails. Also organizations have been formed in various countries to protect the right to use public footpaths, including the Ramblers Association in England. Footpaths are now also found in botanic gardens, arboretums, regional parks, conservation areas, wildlife gardens, and open-air museums. There are also educational trails, themed walks, sculpture trails and historic interpretive trails.\n\nIn England and Wales, public footpaths are rights of way on which pedestrians have a legally protected right to travel. Other public rights of way in England and Wales, such as bridleways, byways, towpaths, and green lanes are also used by pedestrians. In Scotland there is no legal distinction between a footpath and a bridleway and it is generally accepted that cyclists and horse riders may follow any right of way with a suitable surface. The law is different in both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland and there are far fewer rights of way in Ireland as a whole (see Keep Ireland Open).\n\nFootpaths and other rights of way in England and Wales are shown on definitive maps. A definitive map is a record of public rights of way in England and Wales. In law it is the definitive record of where a right of way is located. The highway authority (normally the county council, or unitary authority in areas with a one-tier system) has a statutory duty to maintain a definitive map, though in national parks the national park authority usually maintains the map. The Inner London boroughs are exempt from the statutory duty though they have the powers to maintain a map: currently none does so.\n\nIn Scotland different legislation applies and there is no legally recognised record of rights of way. However, there is a National Catalogue of Rights of Way (CROW), compiled by the Scottish Rights of Way and Access Society (Scotways), in partnership with Scottish Natural Heritage, and the help of local authorities.\n\nThe Open Spaces Society is a charitable British organisation that works to protect public rights of way and open spaces in the United Kingdom, such as common land and village greens. It is Britain's oldest national conservation body. The society was founded as the Commons Preservation Society and merged with the National Footpaths Society in 1899, and adopted their present name.\n\nMuch of the Open Spaces Society's work is concerned with the preservation and creation of public paths. Before the introduction of definitive maps of public paths in the early 1950s, the public did not know where paths were, and the Open Spaces Society helped the successful campaign for paths to be shown on Ordnance Survey maps. It advises the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and National Assembly for Wales on applications for works on common land. Local authorities are legally required to consult the society whenever there is a proposal to alter the route of a public right of way.\n\nThe Ramblers are another British organisation concerned with the protection of footpaths.\n\nThere are a variety of footpaths in urban settings, including paths along streams and rivers, through parks and across commons. Another type is the alley, normally providing access to the rear of properties or connecting built-up roads not easily reached by vehicles. Towpaths are another kind of urban footpath, but they are often shared with cyclists. A typical footpath in a park is found along the seawall in Stanley Park, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. This is a segregated path, with one lane for skaters and cyclists and the other for pedestrians.\n\nIn the USA and Canada, where urban sprawl has begun to strike even the most rural communities, developers and local leaders are currently striving to make their communities more conducive to non-motorized transportation through the use of less traditional paths. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation has established the Active Living by Design program to improve the livability of communities in part through developing trails, The Upper Valley Trails Alliance has done similar work on traditional trails, while the Somerville Community Path and related paths, are examples of urban initiatives. In St. John's, Newfoundland, Canada The Grand Concourse, is an integrated walkway system that has over of footpaths which link every major park, river, pond, and green space in six municipalities.\n\nIn London, England, there are several long-distance walking routes which combine footpaths and roads to link green spaces. These include the Capital Ring, London Outer Orbital Path and the Jubilee Walkway, the use of which have been endorsed by Transport for London.\n\nAn alley is a narrow, usually paved, pedestrian path, often between the walls of buildings in towns and cities. This type is usually short and straight, and on steep ground can consist partially or entirely of steps. In older cities and towns in Europe, alleys are often what is left of a medieval street network, or a right of way or ancient footpath. Similar paths also exist in some older North American towns and cities. In some older urban development in North America lanes at the rear of houses, to allow for deliveries and garbage collection, are called alleys. Alleys may be paved, or unpaved, and a blind alley is a cul-de-sac. Some alleys are roofed because they are within buildings, such as the traboules of Lyon, or when they are a pedestrian passage through railway embankments in Britain. The latter follow the line of rights-of way that existed before the railway was built.\n\nBecause of topography, steps (stairs) are the predominant form of alley in hilly cities and towns. This includes Pittsburgh (see Steps of Pittsburgh), Cincinnati (see Steps of Cincinnati), Seattle, and San Francisco in the United States, as well as Hong Kong, and Rome.\n\nFootpaths (and other rights of way) have been combined, and new paths created, so as to produce long distance walking routes in a number of countries. These can be rural in nature, such as the Essex Way, in southern England, which crosses farmland, or urban as with various routes in London, England, or along a coastline like the South West Coast Path in the West of England, or in the high mountains, like the Pacific Crest Trail in the USA, which reaches at Forester Pass in the Sierra Nevada.\nMany footpaths require some maintenance. Most rural paths have an earth or grass surface with stiles, and or gates, including kissing gates. A few will have stepping stones, fords, or bridges. Urban footpaths may be constructed of masonry, brick, concrete, asphalt, cut stone or wood boardwalk. Crushed rock, decomposed granite, fine wood chips are also used. The construction materials can vary over the length of the footpath and may start with a well constructed hard surface in an urban area, and end with an inexpensive soft or loose surface in the countryside. Stairs or steps are sometimes found in urban alleys, or cliff paths to beaches.\n\nThe main issues in urban areas include maintenance, litter, crime, and lighting after dark. In the countryside there are issues relating to conflicts between walkers and livestock, and these occasionally result in people being injured or even killed. Dogs often contribute to such conflicts – see in England and Wales The Dogs (Protection of Livestock) Act 1953. Also footpaths in remote locations can be difficult to maintain and a route along a country path can be impeded by ploughing, crops, overgrown vegetation, illegal barriers (including barbed wire), damaged stiles, etc.\n\nThere have been numerous problems over the years in England and Wales with landowners.\n\nOne notable example was with the millionaire property tycoon Nicholas Van Hoogstraten who had a long-standing dislike of and dispute with ramblers, describing them as \"scum of the earth\". In 1999 Mr Hoogstraten erected a large fence across a footpath on his country estate in East Sussex. Local ramblers staged a protest against the erection of the fence outside the boundary of Van Hoogstraten's estate. On 10 February 2003 and after a 13-year battle and numerous legal proceedings, the path was finally re-opened.\n\nAnother conflict involved Jeremy Clarkson, a TV presenter and \"Top Gear\" host who lives on the Isle of Man. He became frustrated at the lack of privacy at his home when ramblers deviated from a pathway to take photographs of his dwelling. Clarkson's property bordered a small 250-metre strip of land that had no definitive status as a public right of way but was used by walkers regardless. Clarkson aimed to close access to this small strip of his land, thereby forcing ramblers to take a small diversion to stick to the official public right of way and therefore protecting his claimed right to privacy on his own property. In May 2010 the former transport minister, Hon. David Anderson MHK, accepted the conclusions of a public inquiry that all except five of the paths claimed at the inquiry as public rights of way have been dedicated as public rights of way and should be added to the definitive map.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37932475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37932475", "title": "Fulse people", "text": "Fulse people\n\nFulse people, or Foulse, are a cultural and ethnic group in West Africa, primarily living in western Burkina Faso. The Fulse people speak a Niger-Congo dialect within the Grusi linguistic and Gurunsi cultural groups. There are an estimated 100,000 people who identify themselves as Fulse.\n"}
{"id": "4810666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4810666", "title": "Ghulam Mohammad Farhad", "text": "Ghulam Mohammad Farhad\n\nGhulam Mohammad Farhad (1901–1984) was an Afghan engineer and Pashtun nationalist. He lived in Germany on a royal scholarship from 1921 to 1928, training as an electrician at the Technical University of Munich. During his studies in Germany, he came in contact with Nazi policy and became fascinated by some aspects of it. After he returned to Afghanistan, Farhad was appointed to several electricity-related posts in the government, finally serving as president of the Kabul Electric Company from 1939 to 1966. He traveled to Germany in 1947 to acquire equipment; he was often accused of favoring German-manufactured products. From 1948 to 1954, he was mayor of Kabul. He notably installed the city's first traffic lights and declared a switch to right-hand driving. In 1966, Farhad created the Afghan Social Democratic Party (also known as \"Afghan Mellat\" or \"Afghan Nation\") on the bases of Pashtun nationalism, social democracy, and anticommunism. He was elected to Parliament, representing the sixth district of Kabul, in 1968, but resigned his seat in 1970. He was later a political prisoner of the PDPA/Khalq government from 1979 to 1980, when he was freed in a general amnesty.\n\n"}
{"id": "1416046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416046", "title": "History of chemistry", "text": "History of chemistry\n\nThe history of chemistry represents a time span from ancient history to the present. By 1000 BC, civilizations used technologies that would eventually form the basis of the various branches of chemistry. Examples include extracting metals from ores, making pottery and glazes, fermenting beer and wine, extracting chemicals from plants for medicine and perfume, rendering fat into soap, making glass,\nand making alloys like bronze.\n\nThe protoscience of chemistry, alchemy, was unsuccessful in explaining the nature of matter and its transformations. However, by performing experiments and recording the results, alchemists set the stage for modern chemistry. The distinction began to emerge \nwhen a clear differentiation was made between chemistry and alchemy by Robert Boyle in his work \"The Sceptical Chymist\" (1661). While both alchemy and chemistry are concerned with matter and its transformations, chemists are seen as applying scientific method to their work.\n\nChemistry is considered to have become an established science with the work of Antoine Lavoisier, who developed a law of conservation of mass that demanded careful measurement and quantitative observations of chemical phenomena. The history of chemistry is intertwined with the history of thermodynamics, especially through the work of Willard Gibbs.\n\nA 100,000-Year-Old ochre-processing workshop was found at Blombos Cave in South Africa. It indicates that early humans had an elementary knowledge of chemistry. Paintings drawn by early humans consisting of early humans mixing animal blood with other liquids found on cave walls also indicate a small knowledge of chemistry.\n\nThe earliest recorded metal employed by humans seems to be gold which can be found free or \"native\". Small amounts of natural gold have been found in Spanish caves used during the late Paleolithic period, \"c.\" 40,000 BC.\n\nSilver, copper, tin and meteoric iron can also be found native, allowing a limited amount of metalworking in ancient cultures. Egyptian weapons made from meteoric iron in about 3000 BC were highly prized as \"Daggers from Heaven\".\n\nArguably the first chemical reaction used in a controlled manner was fire. However, for millennia fire was seen simply as a mystical force that could transform one substance into another (burning wood, or boiling water) while producing heat and light. Fire affected many aspects of early societies. These ranged from the simplest facets of everyday life, such as cooking and habitat lighting, to more advanced technologies, such as pottery, bricks, and melting of metals to make tools.\n\nIt was fire that led to the discovery of glass and the purification of metals which in turn gave way to the rise of metallurgy. During the early stages of metallurgy, methods of purification of metals were sought, and gold, known in ancient Egypt as early as 2900 BC, became a precious metal.\n\nCertain metals can be recovered from their ores by simply heating the rocks in a fire: notably tin, lead and (at a higher temperature) copper, a process known as smelting. The first evidence of this extractive metallurgy dates from the 5th and 6th millennium BC, and was found in the archaeological sites of Majdanpek, Yarmovac and Plocnik, all three in Serbia. To date, the earliest copper smelting is found at the Belovode site, these examples include a copper axe from 5500 BC belonging to the Vinča culture. Other signs of early metals are found from the third millennium BC in places like Palmela (Portugal), Los Millares (Spain), and Stonehenge (United Kingdom). However, as often happens with the study of prehistoric times, the ultimate beginnings cannot be clearly defined and new discoveries are ongoing. \nThese first metals were single ones or as found. By combining copper and tin, a superior metal could be made, an alloy called bronze, a major technological shift which began the Bronze Age about 3500 BC. The Bronze Age was period in human cultural development when the most advanced metalworking (at least in systematic and widespread use) included techniques for smelting copper and tin from naturally occurring outcroppings of copper ores, and then smelting those ores to cast bronze. These naturally occurring ores typically included arsenic as a common impurity. Copper/tin ores are rare, as reflected in the fact that there were no tin bronzes in western Asia before 3000 BC.\n\nAfter the Bronze Age, the history of metallurgy was marked by armies seeking better weaponry. Countries in Eurasia prospered when they made the superior alloys, which, in turn, made better armor and better weapons. This often determined the outcomes of battles. Significant progress in metallurgy and alchemy was made in ancient India.\n\nThe extraction of iron from its ore into a workable metal is much more difficult than copper or tin. While iron is not better suited for tools than bronze (until steel was discovered), iron ore is much more abundant and common than either copper or tin. So iron was much more often available locally without have to trade for it.\n\nIron working appears to have been invented by the Hittites in about 1200 BC, beginning the Iron Age. The secret of extracting and working iron was a key factor in the success of the Philistines.\n\nIn other words, the Iron Age refers to the advent of ferrous metallurgy. Historical developments in ferrous metallurgy can be found in a wide variety of past cultures and civilizations. This includes the ancient and medieval kingdoms and empires of the Middle East and Near East, ancient Iran, ancient Egypt, ancient Nubia, and Anatolia (Turkey), Ancient Nok, Carthage, the Greeks and Romans of ancient Europe, medieval Europe, ancient and medieval China, ancient and medieval India, ancient and medieval Japan, amongst others. Many applications, practices, and devices associated or involved in metallurgy were established in ancient China, such as the innovation of the blast furnace, cast iron, hydraulic-powered trip hammers, and double acting piston bellows.\n\nPhilosophical attempts to rationalize why different substances have different properties (color, density, smell), exist in different states (gaseous, liquid, and solid), and react in a different manner when exposed to environments, for example to water or fire or temperature changes, led ancient philosophers to postulate the first theories on nature and chemistry. The history of such philosophical theories that relate to chemistry can probably be traced back to every single ancient civilization. The common aspect in all these theories was the attempt to identify a small number of primary classical element that make up all the various substances in nature. Substances like air, water, and soil/earth, energy forms, such as fire and light, and more abstract concepts such as ideas, aether, and heaven, were common in ancient civilizations even in absence of any cross-fertilization; for example in Greek, Indian, Mayan, and ancient Chinese philosophies all considered air, water, earth and fire as primary elements.\n\nAround 420 BC, Empedocles stated that all matter is made up of four elemental substances—earth, fire, air and water. The early theory of atomism can be traced back to ancient Greece and ancient India. Greek atomism dates back to the Greek philosopher Democritus, who declared that matter is composed of indivisible and indestructible atoms around 380 BC. Leucippus also declared that atoms were the most indivisible part of matter. This coincided with a similar declaration by Indian philosopher Kanada in his Vaisheshika sutras around the same time period. In much the same fashion he discussed the existence of gases. What Kanada declared by sutra, Democritus declared by philosophical musing. Both suffered from a lack of empirical data. Without scientific proof, the existence of atoms was easy to deny. Aristotle opposed the existence of atoms in 330 BC. Earlier, in 380 BC, a Greek text attributed to Polybus argues that the human body is composed of four humours. Around 300 BC, Epicurus postulated a universe of indestructible atoms in which man himself is responsible for achieving a balanced life.\n\nWith the goal of explaining Epicurean philosophy to a Roman audience, the Roman poet and philosopher Lucretius wrote \"De Rerum Natura\" (The Nature of Things) in 50 BC. In the work, Lucretius presents the principles of atomism; the nature of the mind and soul; explanations of sensation and thought; the development of the world and its phenomena; and explains a variety of celestial and terrestrial phenomena.\n\nMuch of the early development of purification methods is described by Pliny the Elder in his Naturalis Historia. He made attempts to explain those methods, as well as making acute observations of the state of many minerals.\n\nThe elemental system used in Medieval alchemy was developed primarily by the Persian-Arab alchemist Jābir ibn Hayyān and rooted in the classical elements of Greek tradition. His system consisted of the four Aristotelian elements of air, earth, fire, and water in addition to two philosophical elements: sulphur, characterizing the principle of combustibility; \"the stone which burns\", and mercury, characterizing the principle of metallic properties. They were seen by early alchemists as idealized expressions of irreducibile components of the universe and are of larger consideration within philosophical alchemy.\n\nThe three metallic principles: sulphur to flammability or combustion, mercury to volatility and stability, and salt to solidity. became the \"tria prima\" of the Swiss alchemist Paracelsus. He reasoned that Aristotle's four-element theory appeared in bodies as three principles. Paracelsus saw these principles as fundamental and justified them by recourse to the description of how wood burns in fire. Mercury included the cohesive principle, so that when it left in smoke the wood fell apart. Smoke described the volatility (the mercurial principle), the heat-giving flames described flammability (sulphur), and the remnant ash described solidity (salt).\n\nAlchemy is defined by the Hermetic quest for the philosopher's stone, the study of which is steeped in symbolic mysticism, and differs greatly from modern science. Alchemists toiled to make transformations on an esoteric (spiritual) and/or exoteric (practical) level. It was the protoscientific, exoteric aspects of alchemy that contributed heavily to the evolution of chemistry in Greco-Roman Egypt, the Islamic Golden Age, and then in Europe. Alchemy and chemistry share an interest in the composition and properties of matter, and prior to the eighteenth century were not separated into distinct disciplines. The term \"chymistry\" has been used to describe the blend of alchemy and chemistry that existed before this time.\n\nThe earliest Western alchemists, who lived in the first centuries of the common era, invented chemical apparatus. The \"bain-marie\", or water bath is named for Mary the Jewess. Her work also gives the first descriptions of the tribikos and kerotakis. Cleopatra the Alchemist described furnaces and has been credited with the invention of the alembic. Later, the experimental framework established by Jabir ibn Hayyan influenced alchemists as the discipline migrated through the Islamic world, then to Europe in the twelfth century.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, exoteric alchemy remained popular in the form of Paracelsian iatrochemistry, while spiritual alchemy flourished, realigned to its Platonic, Hermetic, and Gnostic roots. Consequently, the symbolic quest for the philosopher's stone was not superseded by scientific advances, and was still the domain of respected scientists and doctors until the early eighteenth century. Early modern alchemists who are renowned for their scientific contributions include Jan Baptist van Helmont, Robert Boyle, and Isaac Newton.\n\nThere were several problems with alchemy, as seen from today's standpoint. There was no systematic naming scheme for new compounds, and the language was esoteric and vague to the point that the terminologies meant different things to different people. In fact, according to \"The Fontana History of Chemistry\" (Brock, 1992):\nThe language of alchemy soon developed an arcane and secretive technical vocabulary designed to conceal information from the uninitiated. To a large degree, this language is incomprehensible to us today, though it is apparent that readers of Geoffery Chaucer's Canon's Yeoman's Tale or audiences of Ben Jonson's The Alchemist were able to construe it sufficiently to laugh at it.\nChaucer's tale exposed the more fraudulent side of alchemy, especially the manufacture of counterfeit gold from cheap substances. Less than a century earlier, Dante Alighieri also demonstrated an awareness of this fraudulence, causing him to consign all alchemists to the Inferno in his writings. Soon after, in 1317, the Avignon Pope John XXII ordered all alchemists to leave France for making counterfeit money. A law was passed in England in 1403 which made the \"multiplication of metals\" punishable by death. Despite these and other apparently extreme measures, alchemy did not die. Royalty and privileged classes still sought to discover the philosopher's stone and the elixir of life for themselves.\n\nThere was also no agreed-upon scientific method for making experiments reproducible. Indeed, many alchemists included in their methods irrelevant information such as the timing of the tides or the phases of the moon. The esoteric nature and codified vocabulary of alchemy appeared to be more useful in concealing the fact that they could not be sure of very much at all. As early as the 14th century, cracks seemed to grow in the facade of alchemy; and people became sceptical. Clearly, there needed to be a scientific method where experiments can be repeated by other people, and results needed to be reported in a clear language that laid out both what is known and unknown.\n\nIn the Islamic World, the Muslims were translating the works of the ancient Greeks and Egyptians into Arabic and were experimenting with scientific ideas. The development of the modern scientific method was slow and arduous, but an early scientific method for chemistry began emerging among early Muslim chemists, beginning with the 9th-century chemist Jābir ibn Hayyān (known as \"Geber\" in Europe), who is sometimes regarded as \"the father of chemistry\". He introduced a systematic and experimental approach to scientific research based in the laboratory, in contrast to the ancient Greek and Egyptian alchemists whose works were largely allegorical and often unintelligble. He also invented and named the alembic (al-anbiq), chemically analyzed many chemical substances, composed lapidaries, distinguished between alkalis and acids, and manufactured hundreds of drugs. He also refined the theory of five classical elements into the theory of seven alchemical elements after identifying mercury and sulfur as chemical elements.\n\nAmong other influential Muslim chemists, Abū al-Rayhān al-Bīrūnī, Avicenna and Al-Kindi refuted the theories of alchemy, particularly the theory of the transmutation of metals; and al-Tusi described a version of the conservation of mass, noting that a body of matter is able to change but is not able to disappear. Rhazes refuted Aristotle's theory of four classical elements for the first time and set up the firm foundations of modern chemistry, using the laboratory in the modern sense, designing and describing more than twenty instruments, many parts of which are still in use today, such as a crucible, cucurbit or retort for distillation, and the head of a still with a delivery tube (ambiq, Latin alembic), and various types of furnace or stove.\n\nFor practitioners in Europe, alchemy became an intellectual pursuit after early Arabic alchemy became available through Latin translation, and over time, they improved. Paracelsus (1493–1541), for example, rejected the 4-elemental theory and with only a vague understanding of his chemicals and medicines, formed a hybrid of alchemy and science in what was to be called iatrochemistry. Paracelsus was not perfect in making his experiments truly scientific. For example, as an extension of his theory that new compounds could be made by combining mercury with sulfur, he once made what he thought was \"oil of sulfur\". This was actually dimethyl ether, which had neither mercury nor sulfur.\n\nPractical attempts to improve the refining of ores and their extraction to smelt metals was an important source of information for early chemists in the 16th century, among them Georg Agricola (1494–1555), who published his great work \"De re metallica\" in 1556. His work describes the highly developed and complex processes of mining metal ores, metal extraction and metallurgy of the time. His approach removed the mysticism associated with the subject, creating the practical base upon which others could build. The work describes the many kinds of furnace used to smelt ore, and stimulated interest in minerals and their composition. It is no coincidence that he gives numerous references to the earlier author, Pliny the Elder and his \"Naturalis Historia\". Agricola has been described as the \"father of metallurgy\".\n\nIn 1605, Sir Francis Bacon published \"The Proficience and Advancement of Learning\", which contains a description of what would later be known as the scientific method. In 1605, Michal Sedziwój publishes the alchemical treatise \"A New Light of Alchemy\" which proposed the existence of the \"food of life\" within air, much later recognized as oxygen. In 1615 Jean Beguin published the \"Tyrocinium Chymicum\", an early chemistry textbook, and in it draws the first-ever chemical equation. In 1637 René Descartes publishes \"Discours de la méthode\", which contains an outline of the scientific method.\n\nThe Dutch chemist Jan Baptist van Helmont's work \"Ortus medicinae\" was published posthumously in 1648; the book is cited by some as a major transitional work between alchemy and chemistry, and as an important influence on Robert Boyle. The book contains the results of numerous experiments and establishes an early version of the law of conservation of mass. Working during the time just after Paracelsus and iatrochemistry, Jan Baptist van Helmont suggested that there are insubstantial substances other than air and coined a name for them - \"gas\", from the Greek word \"chaos\". In addition to introducing the word \"gas\" into the vocabulary of scientists, van Helmont conducted several experiments involving gases. Jan Baptist van Helmont is also remembered today largely for his ideas on spontaneous generation and his 5-year tree experiment, as well as being considered the founder of pneumatic chemistry.\n\nAnglo-Irish chemist Robert Boyle (1627–1691) is considered to have refined the modern scientific method for alchemy and to have separated chemistry further from alchemy. Although his research clearly has its roots in the alchemical tradition, Boyle is largely regarded today as the first modern chemist, and therefore one of the founders of modern chemistry, and one of the pioneers of modern experimental scientific method. Although Boyle was not the original discoverer, he is best known for Boyle's law, which he presented in 1662: the law describes the inversely proportional relationship between the absolute pressure and volume of a gas, if the temperature is kept constant within a closed system.\n\nBoyle is also credited for his landmark publication \"The Sceptical Chymist\" in 1661, which is seen as a cornerstone book in the field of chemistry. In the work, Boyle presents his hypothesis that every phenomenon was the result of collisions of particles in motion. Boyle appealed to chemists to experiment and asserted that experiments denied the limiting of chemical elements to only the classic four: earth, fire, air, and water. He also pleaded that chemistry should cease to be subservient to medicine or to alchemy, and rise to the status of a science. Importantly, he advocated a rigorous approach to scientific experiment: he believed all theories must be proved experimentally before being regarded as true. The work contains some of the earliest modern ideas of atoms, molecules, and chemical reaction, and marks the beginning of the history of modern chemistry.\n\nBoyle also tried to purify chemicals to obtain reproducible reactions. He was a vocal proponent of the mechanical philosophy proposed by René Descartes to explain and quantify the physical properties and interactions of material substances. Boyle was an atomist, but favoured the word \"corpuscle\" over \"atoms\". He commented that the finest division of matter where the properties are retained is at the level of corpuscles. He also performed numerous investigations with an air pump, and noted that the mercury fell as air was pumped out. He also observed that pumping the air out of a container would extinguish a flame and kill small animals placed inside. Boyle helped to lay the foundations for the Chemical Revolution with his mechanical corpuscular philosophy. Boyle repeated the tree experiment of van Helmont, and was the first to use indicators which changed colors with acidity.\n\nIn 1702, German chemist Georg Stahl coined the name \"phlogiston\" for the substance believed to be released in the process of burning. Around 1735, Swedish chemist Georg Brandt analyzed a dark blue pigment found in copper ore. Brandt demonstrated that the pigment contained a new element, later named cobalt. In 1751, a Swedish chemist and pupil of Stahl's named Axel Fredrik Cronstedt, identified an impurity in copper ore as a separate metallic element, which he named nickel. Cronstedt is one of the founders of modern mineralogy. Cronstedt also discovered the mineral scheelite in 1751, which he named tungsten, meaning \"heavy stone\" in Swedish.\n\nIn 1754, Scottish chemist Joseph Black isolated carbon dioxide, which he called \"fixed air\". In 1757, Louis Claude Cadet de Gassicourt, while investigating arsenic compounds, creates Cadet's fuming liquid, later discovered to be cacodyl oxide, considered to be the first synthetic organometallic compound. In 1758, Joseph Black formulated the concept of latent heat to explain the thermochemistry of phase changes. In 1766, English chemist Henry Cavendish isolated hydrogen, which he called \"inflammable air\". Cavendish discovered hydrogen as a colorless, odourless gas that burns and can form an explosive mixture with air, and published a paper on the production of water by burning inflammable air (that is, hydrogen) in dephlogisticated air (now known to be oxygen), the latter a constituent of atmospheric air (phlogiston theory).\n\nIn 1773, Swedish chemist Carl Wilhelm Scheele discovered oxygen, which he called \"fire air\", but did not immediately publish his achievement. In 1774, English chemist Joseph Priestley independently isolated oxygen in its gaseous state, calling it \"dephlogisticated air\", and published his work before Scheele. During his lifetime, Priestley's considerable scientific reputation rested on his invention of soda water, his writings on electricity, and his discovery of several \"airs\" (gases), the most famous being what Priestley dubbed \"dephlogisticated air\" (oxygen). However, Priestley's determination to defend phlogiston theory and to reject what would become the chemical revolution eventually left him isolated within the scientific community.\n\nIn 1781, Carl Wilhelm Scheele discovered that a new acid, tungstic acid, could be made from Cronstedt's scheelite (at the time named tungsten). Scheele and Torbern Bergman suggested that it might be possible to obtain a new metal by reducing this acid. In 1783, José and Fausto Elhuyar found an acid made from wolframite that was identical to tungstic acid. Later that year, in Spain, the brothers succeeded in isolating the metal now known as tungsten by reduction of this acid with charcoal, and they are credited with the discovery of the element.\n\nItalian physicist Alessandro Volta constructed a device for accumulating a large charge by a series of inductions and groundings. He investigated the 1780s discovery \"animal electricity\" by Luigi Galvani, and found that the electric current was generated from the contact of dissimilar metals, and that the frog leg was only acting as a detector. Volta demonstrated in 1794 that when two metals and brine-soaked cloth or cardboard are arranged in a circuit they produce an electric current.\n\nIn 1800, Volta stacked several pairs of alternating copper (or silver) and zinc discs (electrodes) separated by cloth or cardboard soaked in brine (electrolyte) to increase the electrolyte conductivity. When the top and bottom contacts were connected by a wire, an electric current flowed through the voltaic pile and the connecting wire. Thus, Volta is credited with constructing the first electrical battery to produce electricity. Volta's method of stacking round plates of copper and zinc separated by disks of cardboard moistened with salt solution was termed a voltaic pile.\n\nThus, Volta is considered to be the founder of the discipline of electrochemistry. A Galvanic cell (or voltaic cell) is an electrochemical cell that derives electrical energy from spontaneous redox reaction taking place within the cell. It generally consists of two different metals connected by a salt bridge, or individual half-cells separated by a porous membrane.\n\nAlthough the archives of chemical research draw upon work from ancient Babylonia, Egypt, and especially the Arabs and Persians after Islam, modern chemistry flourished from the time of Antoine-Laurent de Lavoisier, a French chemist who is celebrated as the \"father of modern chemistry\". Lavoisier demonstrated with careful measurements that transmutation of water to earth was not possible, but that the sediment observed from boiling water came from the container. He burnt phosphorus and sulfur in air, and proved that the products weighed more than the original. Nevertheless, the weight gained was lost from the air. Thus, in 1789, he established the Law of Conservation of Mass, which is also called \"Lavoisier's Law.\"\nRepeating the experiments of Priestley, he demonstrated that air is composed of two parts, one of which combines with metals to form calxes. In \"Considérations Générales sur la Nature des Acides\" (1778), he demonstrated that the \"air\" responsible for combustion was also the source of acidity. The next year, he named this portion oxygen (Greek for acid-former), and the other azote (Greek for no life). Lavoisier thus has a claim to the discovery of oxygen along with Priestley and Scheele. He also discovered that the \"inflammable air\" discovered by Cavendish - which he termed hydrogen (Greek for water-former) - combined with oxygen to produce a dew, as Priestley had reported, which appeared to be water. In \"Reflexions sur le Phlogistique\" (1783), Lavoisier showed the phlogiston theory of combustion to be inconsistent. Mikhail Lomonosov independently established a tradition of chemistry in Russia in the 18th century. Lomonosov also rejected the phlogiston theory, and anticipated the kinetic theory of gases. Lomonosov regarded heat as a form of motion, and stated the idea of conservation of matter.\n\nLavoisier worked with Claude Louis Berthollet and others to devise a system of chemical nomenclature which serves as the basis of the modern system of naming chemical compounds. In his \"Methods of Chemical Nomenclature\" (1787), Lavoisier invented the system of naming and classification still largely in use today, including names such as sulfuric acid, sulfates, and sulfites. In 1785, Berthollet was the first to introduce the use of chlorine gas as a commercial bleach. In the same year he first determined the elemental composition of the gas ammonia. Berthollet first produced a modern bleaching liquid in 1789 by passing chlorine gas through a solution of sodium carbonate - the result was a weak solution of sodium hypochlorite. Another strong chlorine oxidant and bleach which he investigated and was the first to produce, potassium chlorate (KClO), is known as Berthollet's Salt. Berthollet is also known for his scientific contributions to theory of chemical equilibria via the mechanism of reverse chemical reactions.\nLavoisier's \"Traité Élémentaire de Chimie\" (Elementary Treatise of Chemistry, 1789) was the first modern chemical textbook, and presented a unified view of new theories of chemistry, contained a clear statement of the Law of Conservation of Mass, and denied the existence of phlogiston. In addition, it contained a list of elements, or substances that could not be broken down further, which included oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, phosphorus, mercury, zinc, and sulfur. His list, however, also included light, and caloric, which he believed to be material substances. In the work, Lavoisier underscored the observational basis of his chemistry, stating \"I have tried...to arrive at the truth by linking up facts; to suppress as much as possible the use of reasoning, which is often an unreliable instrument which deceives us, in order to follow as much as possible the torch of observation and of experiment.\" Nevertheless, he believed that the real existence of atoms was philosophically impossible. Lavoisier demonstrated that organisms disassemble and reconstitute atmospheric air in the same manner as a burning body.\n\nWith Pierre-Simon Laplace, Lavoisier used a calorimeter to estimate the heat evolved per unit of carbon dioxide produced. They found the same ratio for a flame and animals, indicating that animals produced energy by a type of combustion. Lavoisier believed in the radical theory, believing that radicals, which function as a single group in a chemical reaction, would combine with oxygen in reactions. He believed all acids contained oxygen. He also discovered that diamond is a crystalline form of carbon.\n\nWhile many of Lavoisier's partners were influential for the advancement of chemistry as a scientific discipline, his wife Marie-Anne Lavoisier was arguably the most influential of them all. Upon their marriage, Mme. Lavoisier began to study chemistry, English, and drawing in order to help her husband in his work either by translating papers into English, a language which Lavoisier did not know, or by keeping records and drawing the various apparatuses that Lavoisier used in his labs. Through her ability to read and translate articles from Britain for her husband, Lavoisier had access knowledge from many of the chemical advances happening outside of his lab. Furthermore, Mme. Lavoisier kept records of Lavoisier's work and ensured that his works were published. The first sign of Marie-Anne's true potential as a chemist in Lavoisier's lab came when she was translating a book by the scientist Richard Kirwan. While translating, she stumbled upon and corrected multiple errors. When she presented her translation, along with her notes to Lavoisier Her edits and contributions led to Lavoisier's refutation of the theory of phlogiston.\n\nLavoisier made many fundamental contributions to the science of chemistry. Following Lavoisier's work, chemistry acquired a strict quantitative nature, allowing reliable predictions to be made. The revolution in chemistry which he brought about was a result of a conscious effort to fit all experiments into the framework of a single theory. He established the consistent use of chemical balance, used oxygen to overthrow the phlogiston theory, and developed a new system of chemical nomenclature. Lavoisier was beheaded during the French Revolution.\n\nIn 1802, French American chemist and industrialist Éleuthère Irénée du Pont, who learned manufacture of gunpowder and explosives under Antoine Lavoisier, founded a gunpowder manufacturer in Delaware known as E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company. The French Revolution forced his family to move to the United States where du Pont started a gunpowder mill on the Brandywine River in Delaware. Wanting to make the best powder possible, du Pont was vigilant about the quality of the materials he used. For 32 years, du Pont served as president of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, which eventually grew into one of the largest and most successful companies in America.\n\nThroughout the 19th century, chemistry was divided between those who followed the atomic theory of John Dalton and those who did not, such as Wilhelm Ostwald and Ernst Mach. Although such proponents of the atomic theory as Amedeo Avogadro and Ludwig Boltzmann made great advances in explaining the behavior of gases, this dispute was not finally settled until Jean Perrin's experimental investigation of Einstein's atomic explanation of Brownian motion in the first decade of the 20th century.\n\nWell before the dispute had been settled, many had already applied the concept of atomism to chemistry. A major example was the ion theory of Svante Arrhenius which anticipated ideas about atomic substructure that did not fully develop until the 20th century. Michael Faraday was another early worker, whose major contribution to chemistry was electrochemistry, in which (among other things) a certain quantity of electricity during electrolysis or electrodeposition of metals was shown to be associated with certain quantities of chemical elements, and fixed quantities of the elements therefore with each other, in specific ratios. These findings, like those of Dalton's combining ratios, were early clues to the atomic nature of matter.\n\nIn 1803, English meteorologist and chemist John Dalton proposed Dalton's law, which describes the relationship between the components in a mixture of gases and the relative pressure each contributes to that of the overall mixture. Discovered in 1801, this concept is also known as Dalton's law of partial pressures.\n\nDalton also proposed a modern atomic theory in 1803 which stated that all matter was composed of small indivisible particles termed atoms, atoms of a given element possess unique characteristics and weight, and three types of atoms exist: simple (elements), compound (simple molecules), and complex (complex molecules). In 1808, Dalton first published \"New System of Chemical Philosophy\" (1808-1827), in which he outlined the first modern scientific description of the atomic theory. This work identified chemical elements as a specific type of atom, therefore rejecting Newton's theory of chemical affinities.\n\nInstead, Dalton inferred proportions of elements in compounds by taking ratios of the weights of reactants, setting the atomic weight of hydrogen to be identically one. Following Jeremias Benjamin Richter (known for introducing the term \"stoichiometry\"), he proposed that chemical elements combine in integral ratios. This is known as the law of multiple proportions or Dalton's law, and Dalton included a clear description of the law in his \"New System of Chemical Philosophy\". The law of multiple proportions is one of the basic laws of stoichiometry used to establish the atomic theory. Despite the importance of the work as the first view of atoms as physically real entities and introduction of a system of chemical symbols, \"New System of Chemical Philosophy\" devoted almost as much space to the caloric theory as to atomism.\n\nFrench chemist Joseph Proust proposed the law of definite proportions, which states that elements always combine in small, whole number ratios to form compounds, based on several experiments conducted between 1797 and 1804 Along with the law of multiple proportions, the law of definite proportions forms the basis of stoichiometry. The law of definite proportions and constant composition do not prove that atoms exist, but they are difficult to explain without assuming that chemical compounds are formed when atoms combine in constant proportions.\n\nA Swedish chemist and disciple of Dalton, Jöns Jacob Berzelius embarked on a systematic program to try to make accurate and precise quantitative measurements and insure the purity of chemicals. Along with Lavoisier, Boyle, and Dalton, Berzelius is known as the father of modern chemistry. In 1828 he compiled a table of relative atomic weights, where oxygen was set to 100, and which included all of the elements known at the time. This work provided evidence in favor of Dalton's atomic theory: that inorganic chemical compounds are composed of atoms combined in whole number amounts. He determined the exact elementary constituents of large numbers of compounds. The results strongly confirmed Proust's Law of Definite Proportions. In his weights, he used oxygen as a standard, setting its weight equal to exactly 100. He also measured the weights of 43 elements. In discovering that atomic weights are not integer multiples of the weight of hydrogen, Berzelius also disproved Prout's hypothesis that elements are built up from atoms of hydrogen.\nMotivated by his extensive atomic weight determinations and in a desire to aid his experiments, he introduced the classical system of chemical symbols and notation with his 1808 publishing of \"Lärbok i Kemien\", in which elements are abbreviated by one or two letters to make a distinct abbreviation from their Latin name. This system of chemical notation—in which the elements were given simple written labels, such as O for oxygen, or Fe for iron, with proportions noted by numbers—is the same basic system used today. The only difference is that instead of the subscript number used today (e.g., HO), Berzelius used a superscript (HO). Berzelius is credited with identifying the chemical elements silicon, selenium, thorium, and cerium. Students working in Berzelius's laboratory also discovered lithium and vanadium.\n\nBerzelius developed the radical theory of chemical combination, which holds that reactions occur as stable groups of atoms called radicals are exchanged between molecules. He believed that salts are compounds of an acid and bases, and discovered that the anions in acids would be attracted to a positive electrode (the anode), whereas the cations in a base would be attracted to a negative electrode (the cathode). Berzelius did not believe in the Vitalism Theory, but instead in a regulative force which produced organization of tissues in an organism. Berzelius is also credited with originating the chemical terms \"catalysis\", \"polymer\", \"isomer\", and \"allotrope\", although his original definitions differ dramatically from modern usage. For example, he coined the term \"polymer\" in 1833 to describe organic compounds which shared identical empirical formulas but which differed in overall molecular weight, the larger of the compounds being described as \"polymers\" of the smallest. By this long superseded, pre-structural definition, glucose (CHO) was viewed as a polymer of formaldehyde (CHO).\n\nEnglish chemist Humphry Davy was a pioneer in the field of electrolysis, using Alessandro Volta's voltaic pile to split up common compounds and thus isolate a series of new elements. He went on to electrolyse molten salts and discovered several new metals, especially sodium and potassium, highly reactive elements known as the alkali metals. Potassium, the first metal that was isolated by electrolysis, was discovered in 1807 by Davy, who derived it from caustic potash (KOH). Before the 19th century, no distinction was made between potassium and sodium. Sodium was first isolated by Davy in the same year by passing an electric current through molten sodium hydroxide (NaOH). When Davy heard that Berzelius and Pontin prepared calcium amalgam by electrolyzing lime in mercury, he tried it himself. Davy was successful, and discovered calcium in 1808 by electrolyzing a mixture of lime and mercuric oxide. He worked with electrolysis throughout his life and, in 1808, he isolated magnesium, strontium and barium.\n\nDavy also experimented with gases by inhaling them. This experimental procedure nearly proved fatal on several occasions, but led to the discovery of the unusual effects of nitrous oxide, which came to be known as laughing gas. Chlorine was discovered in 1774 by Swedish chemist Carl Wilhelm Scheele, who called it \"dephlogisticated marine acid\" (see phlogiston theory) and mistakenly thought it contained oxygen. Scheele observed several properties of chlorine gas, such as its bleaching effect on litmus, its deadly effect on insects, its yellow-green colour, and the similarity of its smell to that of aqua regia. However, Scheele was unable to publish his findings at the time. In 1810, chlorine was given its current name by Humphry Davy (derived from the Greek word for green), who insisted that chlorine was in fact an element. He also showed that oxygen could not be obtained from the substance known as oxymuriatic acid (HCl solution). This discovery overturned Lavoisier's definition of acids as compounds of oxygen. Davy was a popular lecturer and able experimenter.\n\nFrench chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac shared the interest of Lavoisier and others in the quantitative study of the properties of gases. From his first major program of research in 1801–1802, he concluded that equal volumes of all gases expand equally with the same increase in temperature: this conclusion is usually called \"Charles's law\", as Gay-Lussac gave credit to Jacques Charles, who had arrived at nearly the same conclusion in the 1780s but had not published it. The law was independently discovered by British natural philosopher John Dalton by 1801, although Dalton's description was less thorough than Gay-Lussac's. In 1804 Gay-Lussac made several daring ascents of over 7,000 meters above sea level in hydrogen-filled balloons—a feat not equaled for another 50 years—that allowed him to investigate other aspects of gases. Not only did he gather magnetic measurements at various altitudes, but he also took pressure, temperature, and humidity measurements and samples of air, which he later analyzed chemically.\n\nIn 1808 Gay-Lussac announced what was probably his single greatest achievement: from his own and others' experiments he deduced that gases at constant temperature and pressure combine in simple numerical proportions by volume, and the resulting product or products—if gases—also bear a simple proportion by volume to the volumes of the reactants. In other words, gases under equal conditions of temperature and pressure react with one another in volume ratios of small whole numbers. This conclusion subsequently became known as \"Gay-Lussac's law\" or the \"Law of Combining Volumes\". With his fellow professor at the École Polytechnique, Louis Jacques Thénard, Gay-Lussac also participated in early electrochemical research, investigating the elements discovered by its means. Among other achievements, they decomposed boric acid by using fused potassium, thus discovering the element boron. The two also took part in contemporary debates that modified Lavoisier's definition of acids and furthered his program of analyzing organic compounds for their oxygen and hydrogen content.\n\nThe element iodine was discovered by French chemist Bernard Courtois in 1811. Courtois gave samples to his friends, Charles Bernard Desormes (1777–1862) and Nicolas Clément (1779–1841), to continue research. He also gave some of the substance to Gay-Lussac and to physicist André-Marie Ampère. On December 6, 1813, Gay-Lussac announced that the new substance was either an element or a compound of oxygen. It was Gay-Lussac who suggested the name \"iode\", from the Greek word ιώδες (iodes) for violet (because of the color of iodine vapor). Ampère had given some of his sample to Humphry Davy. Davy did some experiments on the substance and noted its similarity to chlorine. Davy sent a letter dated December 10 to the Royal Society of London stating that he had identified a new element. Arguments erupted between Davy and Gay-Lussac over who identified iodine first, but both scientists acknowledged Courtois as the first to isolate the element.\n\nIn 1815, Humphry Davy invented the Davy lamp, which allowed miners within coal mines to work safely in the presence of flammable gases. There had been many mining explosions caused by firedamp or methane often ignited by open flames of the lamps then used by miners. Davy conceived of using an iron gauze to enclose a lamp's flame, and so prevent the methane burning inside the lamp from passing out to the general atmosphere. Although the idea of the safety lamp had already been demonstrated by William Reid Clanny and by the then unknown (but later very famous) engineer George Stephenson, Davy's use of wire gauze to prevent the spread of flame was used by many other inventors in their later designs. There was some discussion as to whether Davy had discovered the principles behind his lamp without the help of the work of Smithson Tennant, but it was generally agreed that the work of both men had been independent. Davy refused to patent the lamp, and its invention led to him being awarded the Rumford medal in 1816.\n\nAfter Dalton published his atomic theory in 1808, certain of his central ideas were soon adopted by most chemists. However, uncertainty persisted for half a century about how atomic theory was to be configured and applied to concrete situations; chemists in different countries developed several different incompatible atomistic systems. A paper that suggested a way out of this difficult situation was published as early as 1811 by the Italian physicist Amedeo Avogadro (1776-1856), who hypothesized that equal volumes of gases at the same temperature and pressure contain equal numbers of molecules, from which it followed that relative molecular weights of any two gases are the same as the ratio of the densities of the two gases under the same conditions of temperature and pressure. Avogadro also reasoned that simple gases were not formed of solitary atoms but were instead compound molecules of two or more atoms. Thus Avogadro was able to overcome the difficulty that Dalton and others had encountered when Gay-Lussac reported that above 100 °C the volume of water vapor was twice the volume of the oxygen used to form it. According to Avogadro, the molecule of oxygen had split into two atoms in the course of forming water vapor.\n\nAvogadro's hypothesis was neglected for half a century after it was first published. Many reasons for this neglect have been cited, including some theoretical problems, such as Jöns Jacob Berzelius's \"dualism\", which asserted that compounds are held together by the attraction of positive and negative electrical charges, making it inconceivable that a molecule composed of two electrically similar atoms—as in oxygen—could exist. An additional barrier to acceptance was the fact that many chemists were reluctant to adopt physical methods (such as vapour-density determinations) to solve their problems. By mid-century, however, some leading figures had begun to view the chaotic multiplicity of competing systems of atomic weights and molecular formulas as intolerable. Moreover, purely chemical evidence began to mount that suggested Avogadro's approach might be right after all. During the 1850s, younger chemists, such as Alexander Williamson in England, Charles Gerhardt and Charles-Adolphe Wurtz in France, and August Kekulé in Germany, began to advocate reforming theoretical chemistry to make it consistent with Avogadrian theory.\n\nIn 1825, Friedrich Wöhler and Justus von Liebig performed the first confirmed discovery and explanation of isomers, earlier named by Berzelius. Working with cyanic acid and fulminic acid, they correctly deduced that isomerism was caused by differing arrangements of atoms within a molecular structure. In 1827, William Prout classified biomolecules into their modern groupings: carbohydrates, proteins and lipids. After the nature of combustion was settled, a dispute about vitalism and the essential distinction between organic and inorganic substances began. The vitalism question was revolutionized in 1828 when Friedrich Wöhler synthesized urea, thereby establishing that organic compounds could be produced from inorganic starting materials and disproving the theory of vitalism.\n\nThis opened a new research field in chemistry, and by the end of the 19th century, scientists were able to synthesize hundreds of organic compounds. The most important among them are mauve, magenta, and other synthetic dyes, as well as the widely used drug aspirin. The discovery of the artificial synthesis of urea contributed greatly to the theory of isomerism, as the empirical chemical formulas for urea and ammonium cyanate are identical (see Wöhler synthesis). In 1832, Friedrich Wöhler and Justus von Liebig discovered and explained functional groups and radicals in relation to organic chemistry, as well as first synthesizing benzaldehyde. Liebig, a German chemist, made major contributions to agricultural and biological chemistry, and worked on the organization of organic chemistry. Liebig is considered the \"father of the fertilizer industry\" for his discovery of nitrogen as an essential plant nutrient, and his formulation of the Law of the Minimum which described the effect of individual nutrients on crops.\n\nIn 1840, Germain Hess proposed Hess's law, an early statement of the law of conservation of energy, which establishes that energy changes in a chemical process depend only on the states of the starting and product materials and not on the specific pathway taken between the two states. In 1847, Hermann Kolbe obtained acetic acid from completely inorganic sources, further disproving vitalism. In 1848, William Thomson, 1st Baron Kelvin (commonly known as Lord Kelvin) established the concept of absolute zero, the temperature at which all molecular motion ceases. In 1849, Louis Pasteur discovered that the racemic form of tartaric acid is a mixture of the levorotatory and dextrotatory forms, thus clarifying the nature of optical rotation and advancing the field of stereochemistry. In 1852, August Beer proposed Beer's law, which explains the relationship between the composition of a mixture and the amount of light it will absorb. Based partly on earlier work by Pierre Bouguer and Johann Heinrich Lambert, it established the analytical technique known as spectrophotometry. In 1855, Benjamin Silliman, Jr. pioneered methods of petroleum cracking, which made the entire modern petrochemical industry possible.\n\nAvogadro's hypothesis began to gain broad appeal among chemists only after his compatriot and fellow scientist Stanislao Cannizzaro demonstrated its value in 1858, two years after Avogadro's death. Cannizzaro's chemical interests had originally centered on natural products and on reactions of aromatic compounds; in 1853 he discovered that when benzaldehyde is treated with concentrated base, both benzoic acid and benzyl alcohol are produced—a phenomenon known today as the Cannizzaro reaction. In his 1858 pamphlet, Cannizzaro showed that a complete return to the ideas of Avogadro could be used to construct a consistent and robust theoretical structure that fit nearly all of the available empirical evidence. For instance, he pointed to evidence that suggested that not all elementary gases consist of two atoms per molecule—some were monatomic, most were diatomic, and a few were even more complex.\n\nAnother point of contention had been the formulas for compounds of the alkali metals (such as sodium) and the alkaline earth metals (such as calcium), which, in view of their striking chemical analogies, most chemists had wanted to assign to the same formula type. Cannizzaro argued that placing these metals in different categories had the beneficial result of eliminating certain anomalies when using their physical properties to deduce atomic weights. Unfortunately, Cannizzaro's pamphlet was published initially only in Italian and had little immediate impact. The real breakthrough came with an international chemical congress held in the German town of Karlsruhe in September 1860, at which most of the leading European chemists were present. The Karlsruhe Congress had been arranged by Kekulé, Wurtz, and a few others who shared Cannizzaro's sense of the direction chemistry should go. Speaking in French (as everyone there did), Cannizzaro's eloquence and logic made an indelible impression on the assembled body. Moreover, his friend Angelo Pavesi distributed Cannizzaro's pamphlet to attendees at the end of the meeting; more than one chemist later wrote of the decisive impression the reading of this document provided. For instance, Lothar Meyer later wrote that on reading Cannizzaro's paper, \"The scales seemed to fall from my eyes.\" Cannizzaro thus played a crucial role in winning the battle for reform. The system advocated by him, and soon thereafter adopted by most leading chemists, is substantially identical to what is still used today.\n\nIn 1856, Sir William Henry Perkin, age 18, given a challenge by his professor, August Wilhelm von Hofmann, sought to synthesize quinine, the anti-malaria drug, from coal tar. In one attempt, Perkin oxidized aniline using potassium dichromate, whose toluidine impurities reacted with the aniline and yielded a black solid—suggesting a \"failed\" organic synthesis. Cleaning the flask with alcohol, Perkin noticed purple portions of the solution: a byproduct of the attempt was the first synthetic dye, known as mauveine or Perkin's mauve. Perkin's discovery is the foundation of the dye synthesis industry, one of the earliest successful chemical industries.\n\nGerman chemist August Kekulé von Stradonitz's most important single contribution was his structural theory of organic composition, outlined in two articles published in 1857 and 1858 and treated in great detail in the pages of his extraordinarily popular \"Lehrbuch der organischen Chemie\" (\"Textbook of Organic Chemistry\"), the first installment of which appeared in 1859 and gradually extended to four volumes. Kekulé argued that tetravalent carbon atoms - that is, carbon forming exactly four chemical bonds - could link together to form what he called a \"carbon chain\" or a \"carbon skeleton,\" to which other atoms with other valences (such as hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and chlorine) could join. He was convinced that it was possible for the chemist to specify this detailed molecular architecture for at least the simpler organic compounds known in his day. Kekulé was not the only chemist to make such claims in this era. The Scottish chemist Archibald Scott Couper published a substantially similar theory nearly simultaneously, and the Russian chemist Aleksandr Butlerov did much to clarify and expand structure theory. However, it was predominantly Kekulé's ideas that prevailed in the chemical community.\nBritish chemist and physicist William Crookes is noted for his cathode ray studies, fundamental in the development of atomic physics. His researches on electrical discharges through a rarefied gas led him to observe the dark space around the cathode, now called the Crookes dark space. He demonstrated that cathode rays travel in straight lines and produce phosphorescence and heat when they strike certain materials. A pioneer of vacuum tubes, Crookes invented the Crookes tube - an early experimental discharge tube, with partial vacuum with which he studied the behavior of cathode rays. With the introduction of spectrum analysis by Robert Bunsen and Gustav Kirchhoff (1859-1860), Crookes applied the new technique to the study of selenium compounds. Bunsen and Kirchhoff had previously used spectroscopy as a means of chemical analysis to discover caesium and rubidium. In 1861, Crookes used this process to discover thallium in some seleniferous deposits. He continued work on that new element, isolated it, studied its properties, and in 1873 determined its atomic weight. During his studies of thallium, Crookes discovered the principle of the Crookes radiometer, a device that converts light radiation into rotary motion. The principle of this radiometer has found numerous applications in the development of sensitive measuring instruments.\n\nIn 1862, Alexander Parkes exhibited Parkesine, one of the earliest synthetic polymers, at the International Exhibition in London. This discovery formed the foundation of the modern plastics industry. In 1864, Cato Maximilian Guldberg and Peter Waage, building on Claude Louis Berthollet's ideas, proposed the law of mass action. In 1865, Johann Josef Loschmidt determined the exact number of molecules in a mole, later named Avogadro's number.\n\nIn 1865, August Kekulé, based partially on the work of Loschmidt and others, established the structure of benzene as a six carbon ring with alternating single and double bonds. Kekulé's novel proposal for benzene's cyclic structure was much contested but was never replaced by a superior theory. This theory provided the scientific basis for the dramatic expansion of the German chemical industry in the last third of the 19th century. Today, the large majority of known organic compounds are aromatic, and all of them contain at least one hexagonal benzene ring of the sort that Kekulé advocated. Kekulé is also famous for having clarified the nature of aromatic compounds, which are compounds based on the benzene molecule. In 1865, Adolf von Baeyer began work on indigo dye, a milestone in modern industrial organic chemistry which revolutionized the dye industry.\n\nSwedish chemist and inventor Alfred Nobel found that when nitroglycerin was incorporated in an absorbent inert substance like \"kieselguhr\" (diatomaceous earth) it became safer and more convenient to handle, and this mixture he patented in 1867 as dynamite. Nobel later on combined nitroglycerin with various nitrocellulose compounds, similar to collodion, but settled on a more efficient recipe combining another nitrate explosive, and obtained a transparent, jelly-like substance, which was a more powerful explosive than dynamite. Gelignite, or blasting gelatin, as it was named, was patented in 1876; and was followed by a host of similar combinations, modified by the addition of potassium nitrate and various other substances.\n\nAn important breakthrough in making sense of the list of known chemical elements (as well as in understanding the internal structure of atoms) was Dmitri Mendeleev's development of the first modern periodic table, or the periodic classification of the elements. Mendeleev, a Russian chemist, felt that there was some type of order to the elements and he spent more than thirteen years of his life collecting data and assembling the concept, initially with the idea of resolving some of the disorder in the field for his students. Mendeleev found that, when all the known chemical elements were arranged in order of increasing atomic weight, the resulting table displayed a recurring pattern, or periodicity, of properties within groups of elements. Mendeleev's law allowed him to build up a systematic periodic table of all the 66 elements then known based on atomic mass, which he published in \"Principles of Chemistry\" in 1869. His first Periodic Table was compiled on the basis of arranging the elements in ascending order of atomic weight and grouping them by similarity of properties.\n\nMendeleev had such faith in the validity of the periodic law that he proposed changes to the generally accepted values for the atomic weight of a few elements and, in his version of the periodic table of 1871, predicted the locations within the table of unknown elements together with their properties. He even predicted the likely properties of three yet-to-be-discovered elements, which he called ekaboron (Eb), ekaaluminium (Ea), and ekasilicon (Es), which proved to be good predictors of the properties of scandium, gallium, and germanium, respectively, which each fill the spot in the periodic table assigned by Mendeleev.\n\nAt first the periodic system did not raise interest among chemists. However, with the discovery of the predicted elements, notably gallium in 1875, scandium in 1879, and germanium in 1886, it began to win wide acceptance. The subsequent proof of many of his predictions within his lifetime brought fame to Mendeleev as the founder of the periodic law. This organization surpassed earlier attempts at classification by Alexandre-Émile Béguyer de Chancourtois, who published the telluric helix, an early, three-dimensional version of the periodic table of the elements in 1862, John Newlands, who proposed the law of octaves (a precursor to the periodic law) in 1864, and Lothar Meyer, who developed an early version of the periodic table with 28 elements organized by valence in 1864. Mendeleev's table did not include any of the noble gases, however, which had not yet been discovered. Gradually the periodic law and table became the framework for a great part of chemical theory. By the time Mendeleev died in 1907, he enjoyed international recognition and had received distinctions and awards from many countries.\n\nIn 1873, Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff and Joseph Achille Le Bel, working independently, developed a model of chemical bonding that explained the chirality experiments of Pasteur and provided a physical cause for optical activity in chiral compounds. van 't Hoff's publication, called V\"oorstel tot Uitbreiding der Tegenwoordige in de Scheikunde gebruikte Structuurformules in de Ruimte\", etc. (Proposal for the development of 3-dimensional chemical structural formulae) and consisting of twelve pages text and one page diagrams, gave the impetus to the development of stereochemistry. The concept of the \"asymmetrical carbon atom\", dealt with in this publication, supplied an explanation of the occurrence of numerous isomers, inexplicable by means of the then current structural formulae. At the same time he pointed out the existence of relationship between optical activity and the presence of an asymmetrical carbon atom.\n\nAmerican mathematical physicist J. Willard Gibbs's work on the applications of thermodynamics was instrumental in transforming physical chemistry into a rigorous deductive science. During the years from 1876 to 1878, Gibbs worked on the principles of thermodynamics, applying them to the complex processes involved in chemical reactions. He discovered the concept of chemical potential, or the \"fuel\" that makes chemical reactions work. In 1876 he published his most famous contribution, \"On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances\", a compilation of his work on thermodynamics and physical chemistry which laid out the concept of free energy to explain the physical basis of chemical equilibria. In these essays were the beginnings of Gibbs’ theories of phases of matter: he considered each state of matter a phase, and each substance a component. Gibbs took all of the variables involved in a chemical reaction - temperature, pressure, energy, volume, and entropy - and included them in one simple equation known as Gibbs' phase rule.\n\nWithin this paper was perhaps his most outstanding contribution, the introduction of the concept free energy, now universally called Gibbs free energy in his honor. The Gibbs free energy relates the tendency of a physical or chemical system to simultaneously lower its energy and increase its disorder, or entropy, in a spontaneous natural process. Gibbs's approach allows a researcher to calculate the change in free energy in the process, such as in a chemical reaction, and how fast it will happen. Since virtually all chemical processes and many physical ones involve such changes, his work has significantly impacted both the theoretical and experiential aspects of these sciences. In 1877, Ludwig Boltzmann established statistical derivations of many important physical and chemical concepts, including entropy, and distributions of molecular velocities in the gas phase. Together with Boltzmann and James Clerk Maxwell, Gibbs created a new branch of theoretical physics called statistical mechanics (a term that he coined), explaining the laws of thermodynamics as consequences of the statistical properties of large ensembles of particles. Gibbs also worked on the application of Maxwell's equations to problems in physical optics. Gibbs's derivation of the phenomenological laws of thermodynamics from the statistical properties of systems with many particles was presented in his highly influential textbook \"Elementary Principles in Statistical Mechanics\", published in 1902, a year before his death. In that work, Gibbs reviewed the relationship between the laws of thermodynamics and statistical theory of molecular motions. The overshooting of the original function by partial sums of Fourier series at points of discontinuity is known as the Gibbs phenomenon.\n\nGerman engineer Carl von Linde's invention of a continuous process of liquefying gases in large quantities formed a basis for the modern technology of refrigeration and provided both impetus and means for conducting scientific research at low temperatures and very high vacuums. He developed a dimethyl ether refrigerator (1874) and an ammonia refrigerator (1876). Though other refrigeration units had been developed earlier, Linde's were the first to be designed with the aim of precise calculations of efficiency. In 1895 he set up a large-scale plant for the production of liquid air. Six years later he developed a method for separating pure liquid oxygen from liquid air that resulted in widespread industrial conversion to processes utilizing oxygen (e.g., in steel manufacture).\n\nIn 1883, Svante Arrhenius developed an ion theory to explain conductivity in electrolytes. In 1884, Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff published \"Études de Dynamique chimique\" (Studies in Dynamic Chemistry), a seminal study on chemical kinetics. In this work, van 't Hoff entered for the first time the field of physical chemistry. Of great importance was his development of the general thermodynamic relationship between the heat of conversion and the displacement of the equilibrium as a result of temperature variation. At constant volume, the equilibrium in a system will tend to shift in such a direction as to oppose the temperature change which is imposed upon the system. Thus, lowering the temperature results in heat development while increasing the temperature results in heat absorption. This principle of mobile equilibrium was subsequently (1885) put in a general form by Henry Louis Le Chatelier, who extended the principle to include compensation, by change of volume, for imposed pressure changes. The van 't Hoff-Le Chatelier principle, or simply Le Chatelier's principle, explains the response of dynamic chemical equilibria to external stresses.\n\nIn 1884, Hermann Emil Fischer proposed the structure of purine, a key structure in many biomolecules, which he later synthesized in 1898. He also began work on the chemistry of glucose and related sugars. In 1885, Eugene Goldstein named the cathode ray, later discovered to be composed of electrons, and the canal ray, later discovered to be positive hydrogen ions that had been stripped of their electrons in a cathode ray tube; these would later be named protons. The year 1885 also saw the publishing of J. H. van 't Hoff's \"L'Équilibre chimique dans les Systèmes gazeux ou dissous à I'État dilué\" (Chemical equilibria in gaseous systems or strongly diluted solutions), which dealt with this theory of dilute solutions. Here he demonstrated that the \"osmotic pressure\" in solutions which are sufficiently dilute is proportionate to the concentration and the absolute temperature so that this pressure can be represented by a formula which only deviates from the formula for gas pressure by a coefficient i. He also determined the value of \"i\" by various methods, for example by means of the vapor pressure and François-Marie Raoult's results on the lowering of the freezing point. Thus van 't Hoff was able to prove that thermodynamic laws are not only valid for gases, but also for dilute solutions. His pressure laws, given general validity by the electrolytic dissociation theory of Arrhenius (1884-1887) - the first foreigner who came to work with him in Amsterdam (1888) - are considered the most comprehensive and important in the realm of natural sciences. In 1893, Alfred Werner discovered the octahedral structure of cobalt complexes, thus establishing the field of coordination chemistry.\n\nThe most celebrated discoveries of Scottish chemist William Ramsay were made in inorganic chemistry. Ramsay was intrigued by the British physicist John Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh's 1892 discovery that the atomic weight of nitrogen found in chemical compounds was lower than that of nitrogen found in the atmosphere. He ascribed this discrepancy to a light gas included in chemical compounds of nitrogen, while Ramsay suspected a hitherto undiscovered heavy gas in atmospheric nitrogen. Using two different methods to remove all known gases from air, Ramsay and Lord Rayleigh were able to announce in 1894 that they had found a monatomic, chemically inert gaseous element that constituted nearly 1 percent of the atmosphere; they named it argon.\nThe following year, Ramsay liberated another inert gas from a mineral called cleveite; this proved to be helium, previously known only in the solar spectrum. In his book \"The Gases of the Atmosphere\" (1896), Ramsay showed that the positions of helium and argon in the periodic table of elements indicated that at least three more noble gases might exist. In 1898 Ramsay and the British chemist Morris W. Travers isolated these elements—called neon, krypton, and xenon—from air brought to a liquid state at low temperature and high pressure. Sir William Ramsay worked with Frederick Soddy to demonstrate, in 1903, that alpha particles (helium nuclei) were continually produced during the radioactive decay of a sample of radium. Ramsay was awarded the 1904 Nobel Prize for Chemistry in recognition of \"services in the discovery of the inert gaseous elements in air, and his determination of their place in the periodic system.\"\n\nIn 1897, J. J. Thomson discovered the electron using the cathode ray tube. In 1898, Wilhelm Wien demonstrated that canal rays (streams of positive ions) can be deflected by magnetic fields, and that the amount of deflection is proportional to the mass-to-charge ratio. This discovery would lead to the analytical technique known as mass spectrometry in 1912.\n\nMarie Skłodowska-Curie was a Polish-born French physicist and chemist who is famous for her pioneering research on radioactivity. She and her husband are considered to have laid the cornerstone of the nuclear age with their research on radioactivity. Marie was fascinated with the work of Henri Becquerel, a French physicist who discovered in 1896 that uranium casts off rays similar to the X-rays discovered by Wilhelm Röntgen. Marie Curie began studying uranium in late 1897 and theorized, according to a 1904 article she wrote for Century magazine, \"that the emission of rays by the compounds of uranium is a property of the metal itself—that it is an atomic property of the element uranium independent of its chemical or physical state.\" Curie took Becquerel's work a few steps further, conducting her own experiments on uranium rays. She discovered that the rays remained constant, no matter the condition or form of the uranium. The rays, she theorized, came from the element's atomic structure. This revolutionary idea created the field of atomic physics and the Curies coined the word \"radioactivity\" to describe the phenomena.\n\nPierre and Marie further explored radioactivity by working to separate the substances in uranium ores and then using the electrometer to make radiation measurements to ‘trace’ the minute amount of unknown radioactive element among the fractions that resulted. Working with the mineral pitchblende, the pair discovered a new radioactive element in 1898. They named the element polonium, after Marie's native country of Poland. On December 21, 1898, the Curies detected the presence of another radioactive material in the pitchblende. They presented this finding to the French Academy of Sciences on December 26, proposing that the new element be called radium. The Curies then went to work isolating polonium and radium from naturally occurring compounds to prove that they were new elements. In 1902, the Curies announced that they had produced a decigram of pure radium, demonstrating its existence as a unique chemical element. While it took three years for them to isolate radium, they were never able to isolate polonium. Along with the discovery of two new elements and finding techniques for isolating radioactive isotopes, Curie oversaw the world's first studies into the treatment of neoplasms, using radioactive isotopes. With Henri Becquerel and her husband, Pierre Curie, she was awarded the 1903 Nobel Prize for Physics. She was the sole winner of the 1911 Nobel Prize for Chemistry. She was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, and she is the only woman to win the award in two different fields.\n\nWhile working with Marie to extract pure substances from ores, an undertaking that really required industrial resources but that they achieved in relatively primitive conditions, Pierre himself concentrated on the physical study (including luminous and chemical effects) of the new radiations. Through the action of magnetic fields on the rays given out by the radium, he proved the existence of particles electrically positive, negative, and neutral; these Ernest Rutherford was afterward to call alpha, beta, and gamma rays. Pierre then studied these radiations by calorimetry and also observed the physiological effects of radium, thus opening the way to radium therapy. Among Pierre Curie's discoveries were that ferromagnetic substances exhibited a critical temperature transition, above which the substances lost their ferromagnetic behavior - this is known as the \"Curie point.\" He was elected to the Academy of Sciences (1905), having in 1903 jointly with Marie received the Royal Society's prestigious Davy Medal and jointly with her and Becquerel the Nobel Prize for Physics. He was run over by a carriage in the rue Dauphine in Paris in 1906 and died instantly. His complete works were published in 1908.\n\nNew Zealand-born chemist and physicist Ernest Rutherford is considered to be \"the father of nuclear physics.\" Rutherford is best known for devising the names alpha, beta, and gamma to classify various forms of radioactive \"rays\" which were poorly understood at his time (alpha and beta rays are particle beams, while gamma rays are a form of high-energy electromagnetic radiation). Rutherford deflected alpha rays with both electric and magnetic fields in 1903. Working with Frederick Soddy, Rutherford explained that radioactivity is due to the transmutation of elements, now known to involve nuclear reactions.\nHe also observed that the intensity of radioactivity of a radioactive element decreases over a unique and regular amount of time until a point of stability, and he named the halving time the \"half-life.\" In 1901 and 1902 he worked with Frederick Soddy to prove that atoms of one radioactive element would spontaneously turn into another, by expelling a piece of the atom at high velocity. In 1906 at the University of Manchester, Rutherford oversaw an experiment conducted by his students Hans Geiger (known for the Geiger counter) and Ernest Marsden. In the Geiger–Marsden experiment, a beam of alpha particles, generated by the radioactive decay of radon, was directed normally onto a sheet of very thin gold foil in an evacuated chamber. Under the prevailing plum pudding model, the alpha particles should all have passed through the foil and hit the detector screen, or have been deflected by, at most, a few degrees.\n\nHowever, the actual results surprised Rutherford. Although many of the alpha particles did pass through as expected, many others were deflected at small angles while others were reflected back to the alpha source. They observed that a very small percentage of particles were deflected through angles much larger than 90 degrees. The gold foil experiment showed large deflections for a small fraction of incident particles. Rutherford realized that, because some of the alpha particles were deflected or reflected, the atom had a concentrated centre of positive charge and of relatively large mass - Rutherford later termed this positive center the \"atomic nucleus\". The alpha particles had either hit the positive centre directly or passed by it close enough to be affected by its positive charge. Since many other particles passed through the gold foil, the positive centre would have to be a relatively small size compared to the rest of the atom - meaning that the atom is mostly open space. From his results, Rutherford developed a model of the atom that was similar to the solar system, known as Rutherford model. Like planets, electrons orbited a central, sun-like nucleus. For his work with radiation and the atomic nucleus, Rutherford received the 1908 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.\n\nIn 1903, Mikhail Tsvet invented chromatography, an important analytic technique. In 1904, Hantaro Nagaoka proposed an early nuclear model of the atom, where electrons orbit a dense massive nucleus. In 1905, Fritz Haber and Carl Bosch developed the Haber process for making ammonia, a milestone in industrial chemistry with deep consequences in agriculture. The Haber process, or Haber-Bosch process, combined nitrogen and hydrogen to form ammonia in industrial quantities for production of fertilizer and munitions. The food production for half the world's current population depends on this method for producing fertilizer. Haber, along with Max Born, proposed the Born–Haber cycle as a method for evaluating the lattice energy of an ionic solid. Haber has also been described as the \"father of chemical warfare\" for his work developing and deploying chlorine and other poisonous gases during World War I.\nIn 1905, Albert Einstein explained Brownian motion in a way that definitively proved atomic theory. Leo Baekeland invented bakelite, one of the first commercially successful plastics. In 1909, American physicist Robert Andrews Millikan - who had studied in Europe under Walther Nernst and Max Planck - measured the charge of individual electrons with unprecedented accuracy through the oil drop experiment, in which he measured the electric charges on tiny falling water (and later oil) droplets. His study established that any particular droplet's electrical charge is a multiple of a definite, fundamental value — the electron's charge — and thus a confirmation that all electrons have the same charge and mass. Beginning in 1912, he spent several years investigating and finally proving Albert Einstein's proposed linear relationship between energy and frequency, and providing the first direct photoelectric support for Planck's constant. In 1923 Millikan was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics.\n\nIn 1909, S. P. L. Sørensen invented the pH concept and develops methods for measuring acidity. In 1911, Antonius Van den Broek proposed the idea that the elements on the periodic table are more properly organized by positive nuclear charge rather than atomic weight. In 1911, the first Solvay Conference was held in Brussels, bringing together most of the most prominent scientists of the day. In 1912, William Henry Bragg and William Lawrence Bragg proposed Bragg's law and established the field of X-ray crystallography, an important tool for elucidating the crystal structure of substances. In 1912, Peter Debye develops the concept of molecular dipole to describe asymmetric charge distribution in some molecules.\n\nIn 1913, Niels Bohr, a Danish physicist, introduced the concepts of quantum mechanics to atomic structure by proposing what is now known as the Bohr model of the atom, where electrons exist only in strictly defined circular orbits around the nucleus similar to rungs on a ladder. The Bohr Model is a planetary model in which the negatively charged electrons orbit a small, positively charged nucleus similar to the planets orbiting the Sun (except that the orbits are not planar) - the gravitational force of the solar system is mathematically akin to the attractive Coulomb (electrical) force between the positively charged nucleus and the negatively charged electrons.\n\nIn the Bohr model, however, electrons orbit the nucleus in orbits that have a set size and energy - the energy levels are said to be \"quantized\", which means that only certain orbits with certain radii are allowed; orbits in between simply don't exist. The energy of the orbit is related to its size - that is, the lowest energy is found in the smallest orbit. Bohr also postulated that electromagnetic radiation is absorbed or emitted when an electron moves from one orbit to another. Because only certain electron orbits are permitted, the emission of light accompanying a jump of an electron from an excited energy state to ground state produces a unique emission spectrum for each element.\n\nNiels Bohr also worked on the principle of complementarity, which states that an electron can be interpreted in two mutually exclusive and valid ways. Electrons can be interpreted as wave or particle models. His hypothesis was that an incoming particle would strike the nucleus and create an excited compound nucleus. This formed the basis of his liquid drop model and later provided a theory base for the explanation of nuclear fission.\nIn 1913, Henry Moseley, working from Van den Broek's earlier idea, introduces concept of atomic number to fix inadequacies of Mendeleev's periodic table, which had been based on atomic weight. The peak of Frederick Soddy's career in radiochemistry was in 1913 with his formulation of the concept of isotopes, which stated that certain elements exist in two or more forms which have different atomic weights but which are indistinguishable chemically. He is remembered for proving the existence of isotopes of certain radioactive elements, and is also credited, along with others, with the discovery of the element protactinium in 1917. In 1913, J. J. Thomson expanded on the work of Wien by showing that charged subatomic particles can be separated by their mass-to-charge ratio, a technique known as mass spectrometry.\n\nAmerican physical chemist Gilbert N. Lewis laid the foundation of valence bond theory; he was instrumental in developing a bonding theory based on the number of electrons in the outermost \"valence\" shell of the atom. In 1902, while Lewis was trying to explain valence to his students, he depicted atoms as constructed of a concentric series of cubes with electrons at each corner. This \"cubic atom\" explained the eight groups in the periodic table and represented his idea that chemical bonds are formed by electron transference to give each atom a complete set of eight outer electrons (an \"octet\").\n\nLewis's theory of chemical bonding continued to evolve and, in 1916, he published his seminal article \"The Atom of the Molecule\", which suggested that a chemical bond is a pair of electrons shared by two atoms. Lewis's model equated the classical chemical bond with the sharing of a pair of electrons between the two bonded atoms. Lewis introduced the \"electron dot diagrams\" in this paper to symbolize the electronic structures of atoms and molecules. Now known as Lewis structures, they are discussed in virtually every introductory chemistry book.\n\nShortly after publication of his 1916 paper, Lewis became involved with military research. He did not return to the subject of chemical bonding until 1923, when he masterfully summarized his model in a short monograph entitled Valence and the Structure of Atoms and Molecules. His renewal of interest in this subject was largely stimulated by the activities of the American chemist and General Electric researcher Irving Langmuir, who between 1919 and 1921 popularized and elaborated Lewis's model. Langmuir subsequently introduced the term \"covalent bond\". In 1921, Otto Stern and Walther Gerlach establish concept of quantum mechanical spin in subatomic particles.\n\nFor cases where no sharing was involved, Lewis in 1923 developed the electron pair theory of acids and base: Lewis redefined an acid as any atom or molecule with an incomplete octet that was thus capable of accepting electrons from another atom; bases were, of course, electron donors. His theory is known as the concept of Lewis acids and bases. In 1923, G. N. Lewis and Merle Randall published \"Thermodynamics and the Free Energy of Chemical Substances\", first modern treatise on chemical thermodynamics.\n\nThe 1920s saw a rapid adoption and application of Lewis's model of the electron-pair bond in the fields of organic and coordination chemistry. In organic chemistry, this was primarily due to the efforts of the British chemists Arthur Lapworth, Robert Robinson, Thomas Lowry, and Christopher Ingold; while in coordination chemistry, Lewis's bonding model was promoted through the efforts of the American chemist Maurice Huggins and the British chemist Nevil Sidgwick.\n\nIn 1924, French quantum physicist Louis de Broglie published his thesis, in which he introduced a revolutionary theory of electron waves based on wave–particle duality in his thesis. In his time, the wave and particle interpretations of light and matter were seen as being at odds with one another, but de Broglie suggested that these seemingly different characteristics were instead the same behavior observed from different perspectives — that particles can behave like waves, and waves (radiation) can behave like particles. Broglie's proposal offered an explanation of the restriction motion of electrons within the atom. The first publications of Broglie's idea of \"matter waves\" had drawn little attention from other physicists, but a copy of his doctoral thesis chanced to reach Einstein, whose response was enthusiastic. Einstein stressed the importance of Broglie's work both explicitly and by building further on it.\n\nIn 1925, Austrian-born physicist Wolfgang Pauli developed the Pauli exclusion principle, which states that no two electrons around a single nucleus in an atom can occupy the same quantum state simultaneously, as described by four quantum numbers. Pauli made major contributions to quantum mechanics and quantum field theory - he was awarded the 1945 Nobel Prize for Physics for his discovery of the Pauli exclusion principle - as well as solid-state physics, and he successfully hypothesized the existence of the neutrino. In addition to his original work, he wrote masterful syntheses of several areas of physical theory that are considered classics of scientific literature.\nIn 1926 at the age of 39, Austrian theoretical physicist Erwin Schrödinger produced the papers that gave the foundations of quantum wave mechanics. In those papers he described his partial differential equation that is the basic equation of quantum mechanics and bears the same relation to the mechanics of the atom as Newton's equations of motion bear to planetary astronomy. Adopting a proposal made by Louis de Broglie in 1924 that particles of matter have a dual nature and in some situations act like waves, Schrödinger introduced a theory describing the behaviour of such a system by a wave equation that is now known as the Schrödinger equation. The solutions to Schrödinger's equation, unlike the solutions to Newton's equations, are wave functions that can only be related to the probable occurrence of physical events. The readily visualized sequence of events of the planetary orbits of Newton is, in quantum mechanics, replaced by the more abstract notion of probability. (This aspect of the quantum theory made Schrödinger and several other physicists profoundly unhappy, and he devoted much of his later life to formulating philosophical objections to the generally accepted interpretation of the theory that he had done so much to create.)\n\nGerman theoretical physicist Werner Heisenberg was one of the key creators of quantum mechanics. In 1925, Heisenberg discovered a way to formulate quantum mechanics in terms of matrices. For that discovery, he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics for 1932. In 1927 he published his uncertainty principle, upon which he built his philosophy and for which he is best known. Heisenberg was able to demonstrate that if you were studying an electron in an atom you could say where it was (the electron's location) or where it was going (the electron's velocity), but it was impossible to express both at the same time. He also made important contributions to the theories of the hydrodynamics of turbulent flows, the atomic nucleus, ferromagnetism, cosmic rays, and subatomic particles, and he was instrumental in planning the first West German nuclear reactor at Karlsruhe, together with a research reactor in Munich, in 1957. Considerable controversy surrounds his work on atomic research during World War II.\n\nSome view the birth of quantum chemistry in the discovery of the Schrödinger equation and its application to the hydrogen atom in 1926. However, the 1927 article of Walter Heitler and Fritz London is often recognised as the first milestone in the history of quantum chemistry. This is the first application of quantum mechanics to the diatomic hydrogen molecule, and thus to the phenomenon of the chemical bond. In the following years much progress was accomplished by Edward Teller, Robert S. Mulliken, Max Born, J. Robert Oppenheimer, Linus Pauling, Erich Hückel, Douglas Hartree, Vladimir Aleksandrovich Fock, to cite a few.\n\nStill, skepticism remained as to the general power of quantum mechanics applied to complex chemical systems. The situation around 1930 is described by Paul Dirac:\n\nHence the quantum mechanical methods developed in the 1930s and 1940s are often referred to as theoretical molecular or atomic physics to underline the fact that they were more the application of quantum mechanics to chemistry and spectroscopy than answers to chemically relevant questions. In 1951, a milestone article in quantum chemistry is the seminal paper of Clemens C. J. Roothaan on Roothaan equations. It opened the avenue to the solution of the self-consistent field equations for small molecules like hydrogen or nitrogen. Those computations were performed with the help of tables of integrals which were computed on the most advanced computers of the time.\n\nIn the 1940s many physicists turned from molecular or atomic physics to nuclear physics (like J. Robert Oppenheimer or Edward Teller). Glenn T. Seaborg was an American nuclear chemist best known for his work on isolating and identifying transuranium elements (those heavier than uranium). He shared the 1951 Nobel Prize for Chemistry with Edwin Mattison McMillan for their independent discoveries of transuranium elements. Seaborgium was named in his honour, making him the only person, along Albert Einstein and Yuri Oganessian, for whom a chemical element was named during his lifetime.\n\nBy the mid 20th century, in principle, the integration of physics and chemistry was extensive, with chemical properties explained as the result of the electronic structure of the atom; Linus Pauling's book on \"The Nature of the Chemical Bond\" used the principles of quantum mechanics to deduce bond angles in ever-more complicated molecules. However, though some principles deduced from quantum mechanics were able to predict qualitatively some chemical features for biologically relevant molecules, they were, till the end of the 20th century, more a collection of rules, observations, and recipes than rigorous ab initio quantitative methods. \n\nThis heuristic approach triumphed in 1953 when James Watson and Francis Crick deduced the double helical structure of DNA by constructing models constrained by and informed by the knowledge of the chemistry of the constituent parts and the X-ray diffraction patterns obtained by Rosalind Franklin. This discovery lead to an explosion of research into the biochemistry of life.\n\nIn the same year, the Miller–Urey experiment demonstrated that basic constituents of protein, simple amino acids, could themselves be built up from simpler molecules in a simulation of primordial processes on Earth. Though many questions remain about the true nature of the origin of life, this was the first attempt by chemists to study hypothetical processes in the laboratory under controlled conditions.\n\nIn 1983 Kary Mullis devised a method for the in-vitro amplification of DNA, known as the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), which revolutionized the chemical processes used in the laboratory to manipulate it. PCR could be used to synthesize specific pieces of DNA and made possible the sequencing of DNA of organisms, which culminated in the huge human genome project.\n\nAn important piece in the double helix puzzle was solved by one of Pauling's students Matthew Meselson and Frank Stahl, the result of their collaboration (Meselson–Stahl experiment) has been called as \"the most beautiful experiment in biology\".\n\nThey used a centrifugation technique that sorted molecules according to differences in weight. Because nitrogen atoms are a component of DNA, they were labelled and therefore tracked in replication in bacteria.\n\nIn 1970, John Pople developed the Gaussian program greatly easing computational chemistry calculations. In 1971, Yves Chauvin offered an explanation of the reaction mechanism of olefin metathesis reactions. In 1975, Karl Barry Sharpless and his group discovered a stereoselective oxidation reactions including Sharpless epoxidation, Sharpless asymmetric dihydroxylation, and Sharpless oxyamination.\nIn 1985, Harold Kroto, Robert Curl and Richard Smalley discovered fullerenes, a class of large carbon molecules superficially resembling the geodesic dome designed by architect R. Buckminster Fuller. In 1991, Sumio Iijima used electron microscopy to discover a type of cylindrical fullerene known as a carbon nanotube, though earlier work had been done in the field as early as 1951. This material is an important component in the field of nanotechnology. In 1994, Robert A. Holton and his group achieved the first total synthesis of Taxol. In 1995, Eric Cornell and Carl Wieman produced the first Bose–Einstein condensate, a substance that displays quantum mechanical properties on the macroscopic scale.\n\nClassically, before the 20th century, chemistry was defined as the science of the nature of matter and its transformations. It was therefore clearly distinct from physics which was not concerned with such dramatic transformation of matter. Moreover, in contrast to physics, chemistry was not using much of mathematics. Even some were particularly reluctant to use mathematics within chemistry. For example, Auguste Comte wrote in 1830:\n\nHowever, in the second part of the 19th century, the situation changed and August Kekulé wrote in 1867:\nAs understanding of the nature of matter has evolved, so too has the self-understanding of the science of chemistry by its practitioners. This continuing historical process of evaluation includes the categories, terms, aims and scope of chemistry. Additionally, the development of the social institutions and networks which support chemical enquiry are highly significant factors that enable the production, dissemination and application of chemical knowledge. (See Philosophy of chemistry)\n\nThe later part of the nineteenth century saw a huge increase in the exploitation of petroleum extracted from the earth for the production of a host of chemicals and largely replaced the use of whale oil, coal tar and naval stores used previously. Large-scale production and refinement of petroleum provided feedstocks for liquid fuels such as gasoline and diesel, solvents, lubricants, asphalt, waxes, and for the production of many of the common materials of the modern world, such as synthetic fibers, plastics, paints, detergents, pharmaceuticals, adhesives and ammonia as fertilizer and for other uses. Many of these required new catalysts and the utilization of chemical engineering for their cost-effective production.\n\nIn the mid-twentieth century, control of the electronic structure of semiconductor materials was made precise by the creation of large ingots of extremely pure single crystals of silicon and germanium. Accurate control of their chemical composition by doping with other elements made the production of the solid state transistor in 1951 and made possible the production of tiny integrated circuits for use in electronic devices, especially computers.\n\n\"listed chronologically:\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8624955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8624955", "title": "History of nudity", "text": "History of nudity\n\nThe history of nudity involves social attitudes to nudity in different cultures in history. It is not known when humans began wearing clothes, although there is some archaeological evidence to indicate that clothing may have become commonplace in human society around 72,000 years ago. Nudity (or near-complete nudity) has traditionally been the social norm for both men and women in some hunter-gatherer cultures in warm climates and it is still common among many indigenous peoples. Anthropologists believe that animal skins and vegetation were adapted into coverings as protection from cold, heat and rain, especially as humans migrated to new climates; alternatively, covering may have been invented first for other purposes, such as magic, decoration, cult, or prestige, and later found to be practical as well.\n\nThe ancient Egyptians wore the minimum of clothing, and in a number of ancient Mediterranean cultures, the athletic and/or cultist nudity of men and boys was a natural concept. In ancient Rome, nudity could be a public disgrace and might be offensive or distasteful even in traditional settings, though it could be seen at the public baths or in erotic art. In Japan, public nudity was quite normal and commonplace until the Meiji Restoration. In Europe, taboos against nudity began to grow during the Age of Enlightenment and by the Victorian era, public nakedness was considered obscene. In the early years of the 20th century, the modern naturist movement began to develop.\n\nBecause animal skins and vegetable materials decompose readily there is no archeological evidence of when and how clothing developed. However, recent studies of human lice suggest that clothing may have become commonplace in human society around 72,000 years ago. If that is correct, it would mean that for around 128,000 years and the majority of anatomically modern human history, humans may not have worn clothes. Some anthropologists believe that \"Homo habilis\" and even \"Homo erectus\" may have used animal skins for protection placing the origins of clothing at perhaps a million years or more.\n\nFashions in ancient Egypt did not change much over the millennia. The ancient Egyptians wore the minimum of clothing. Both men and women of the lower classes were commonly bare chested and barefoot, wearing a simple loincloth around their waist. Slaves typically wore nothing. Richer women commonly wore a \"kalasiris\", a dress of loose draped or translucent linen which came to just above or below the breasts. Women entertainers performed naked. Children went without clothing until puberty, at about age 12.\n\nThough the minimum amount of clothing was the norm in ancient Egypt, the custom was viewed as humiliating by some other ancient cultures. For example, the Hebrew Bible records: \"So shall the \"king of the Assyrians lead away the prisoners\" of Egypt, and the captivity of Ethiopia, young and old, \"naked and barefoot, with their buttocks uncovered to the shame of Egypt\"\". Similar images occur on many bas-reliefs, also from other empires.\n\nIn some ancient Mediterranean cultures, even well past the hunter-gatherer stage, athletic and/or cultist nudity of men and boys – and rarely, of women and girls – was a natural concept. The Minoan civilization prized athleticism, with bull-leaping being a favourite event. Both men and women participated wearing only a loincloth, as toplessness for both sexes was the cultural norm; men wore loincloths, whilst women wore an open-fronted dress.\n\nAncient Greece had a particular fascination for aesthetics, which was also reflected in clothing or its absence. Sparta had rigorous codes of training (\"agoge\") and physical exercise was conducted in the nude. Athletes competed naked in public sporting events. Spartan women, as well as men, would sometimes be naked in public processions and festivals. This practice was designed to encourage virtue in men while they were away at war and an appreciation of health in the women. Women and goddesses were normally portrayed clothed in sculpture of the Classical period, with the exception of the nude Aphrodite.\n\nIn general, however, concepts of either shame or offense, or the social comfort of the individual, seem to have been deterrents of public nudity in the rest of Greece and the ancient world in the east and west, with exceptions in what is now South America, and in Africa and Australia. Polybius asserts that Celts typically fought naked, \"The appearance of these naked warriors was a terrifying spectacle, for they were all men of splendid physique and in the prime of life.\"\n\nIn antiquity even before the Classical era, e.g., on Minoan Crete, athletic exercise was an important part of daily life. The Greeks credited several mythological figures with athletic accomplishments, and male gods (especially Apollo and Heracles, patrons of sport) were commonly depicted as athletes. While Greek sculpture often showed males completely nude, a new concept for females, \"Venus Pudica\" (or partially nude) appeared, for example, the Greek \"Nike of Samothrace\".\n\nNudity in sport was very common, with almost all sports performed naked. As a tradition it was probably first introduced in the city-state of Sparta, during the late archaic period.\n\nThe civilization of ancient Greece (Hellas), during the Archaic period, had an athletic and cultic aesthetic of nudity which typically included adult and teenage males, but at times also boys, women and girls. The love for beauty had also included the human body, beyond the love for nature, philosophy, and the arts. The Greek word \"gymnasium\" means 'a place to train naked'. Male athletes competed naked, but most city-states of the time allowed no female participants or even spectators at those events, Sparta being a notable exception.\n\nNudity in religious ceremonies was also practiced in Greece. The statue of the Moscophoros (the 'calf-bearer'), a remnant of the archaic Acropolis of Athens, depicts a young man carrying a calf on his shoulders, presumably taking the animal to the altar for sacrifice. The \"Moschophoros\" is \"not\" completely nude: a piece of very fine, almost transparent cloth is carefully draped over his shoulders, upper arms and front thighs, which nevertheless left his genitals purposely exposed. In this case the garment apparently fulfilled a purely ceremonial, priestly function in which modesty was not an issue.\n\nIn Greek culture, depictions of erotic nudity were considered normal. The Greeks were conscious of the exceptional nature of their nudity, noting that \"generally in countries which are subject to the barbarians, the custom is held to be dishonourable; lovers of youths share the evil repute in which philosophy and naked sports are held, because they are inimical to tyranny;\" In both ancient Greece and ancient Rome, public nakedness was also accepted in the context of public bathing. It was also common for a person to be punished by being partially or completely stripped and lashed in public; in some legal systems judicial corporal punishments on the bare buttocks persisted up to or even beyond the feudal age, either only for minors or also for adults, even until today but rarely still in public. In Biblical accounts of the Roman Imperial era, prisoners were often stripped naked, as a form of humiliation.\n\nThe origins of nudity in ancient Greek sport are the subject of a legend about the athlete, Orsippus of Megara. There are various myths regarding these origins; in one Orsippus loses his loin cloth during the stadion-race of the 15th Olympic Games in 720 BC which gives him an advantage and he wins. Other athletes then emulate him and the fashion is born.\n\nNudity in sport spread to the whole of Greece, Greater Greece and even its furthest colonies, and the athletes from all its parts, coming together for the Olympic Games and the other Panhellenic Games, competed naked in almost all disciplines, such as boxing, wrestling, pankration (a free-style mix of boxing and wrestling, serious physical harm was allowed) – in such martial arts equal chances in terms of grip and body protection require a non-restrictive uniform (as presently common) or none. Stadion and various other foot races including relay race, and the pentathlon (made up of wrestling, stadion, long jump, javelin throw, and discus throw). However, even though chariot racers typically wore some clothing while competing, there are depictions of naked chariot racers as well.\n\nIt is believed to be rooted in the religious notion that athletic excellence was an \"esthetical\" offering to the gods (nearly all games fitted in religious festivals), and indeed at many games it was the privilege of the winner to be represented naked as a votive statue offered in a temple, or even to be immortalized as model for a god's statue. Performing naked certainly was also welcome as a measure to prevent foul play, which was punished publicly on the spot by the judges (often religious dignitaries) with a sound lashing. The offender was naked when he was whipped.\n\nEvidence of Greek nudity in sport comes from the numerous surviving depictions of athletes (sculpture, mosaics and vase paintings). Famous athletes were honored by statues erected for their commemoration (see Milo of Croton). A few writers have insisted that the athletic nudity in Greek art is just an artistic convention, finding it unbelievable that anybody would have run naked. This view could be ascribed to late-Victorian prudishness applied anachronistically to ancient times. Other cultures in antiquity did not practice athletic nudity and condemned the Greek practice. Their rejection of naked sports was in turn condemned by the Greeks as a token of tyranny and political repression.\n\nGreek athletes, even though naked, seem to have made a point of avoiding exposure of their glans, for example by infibulation, or wearing of a kynodesme.\n\nWhile statues of males often showed complete nudity, female statues often were shown with the concept of \"Venus Pudica\" (partially clothed or modest). A prime example is the Nike of Samothrace female statue.\n\nAncient Roman attitudes toward male nudity differed from those of the Greeks, whose ideal of masculine excellence was expressed by the nude male body in art and in such real-life venues as athletic contests. The toga, by contrast, distinguished the body of the adult male citizen at Rome. The poet Ennius (c. 239–169 BC) declared that \"exposing naked bodies among citizens is the beginning of public disgrace (\"flagitium\"),\" a sentiment echoed by Cicero.\n\nPublic nudity might be offensive or distasteful even in traditional settings; Cicero derides Mark Antony as undignified for appearing near-naked as a participant in the Lupercalia festival, even though it was ritually required. Negative connotations of nudity included defeat in war, since captives were stripped and sold into slavery. Slaves for sale were often displayed naked to allow buyers to inspect them for defects, and to symbolize that they lacked the right to control their own bodies. The disapproval of nudity was less a matter of trying to suppress inappropriate sexual desire than of dignifying and marking the citizen's body. Thus the \"retiarius\", a type of gladiator who fought with face and flesh exposed, was thought to be unmanly. The influence of Greek art, however, led to \"heroic\" nude portrayals of Roman men and gods, a practice that began in the 2nd century BC. When statues of Roman generals nude in the manner of Hellenistic kings first began to be displayed, they were shocking—not simply because they exposed the male figure, but because they evoked concepts of royalty and divinity that were contrary to Republican ideals of citizenship as embodied by the toga. In art produced under Augustus Caesar, the adoption of Hellenistic and Neo-Attic style led to more complex signification of the male body shown nude, partially nude, or costumed in a muscle cuirass. Romans who competed in the Olympic Games presumably followed the Greek custom of nudity, but athletic nudity at Rome has been dated variously, possibly as early as the introduction of Greek-style games in the 2nd century BC but perhaps not regularly until the time of Nero around 60 AD.\n\nAt the same time, the phallus was depicted ubiquitously. The phallic amulet known as the \"fascinum\" (from which the English word \"fascinate\" ultimately derives) was supposed to have powers to ward off the evil eye and other malevolent supernatural forces. It appears frequently in the archaeological remains of Pompeii in the form of \"tintinnabula\" (wind chimes) and other objects such as lamps. The phallus is also the defining characteristic of the imported Greek god Priapus, whose statue was used as a \"scarecrow\" in gardens. A penis depicted as erect and very large was laughter-provoking, grotesque, or apotropaic. Roman art regularly features nudity in mythological scenes, and sexually explicit art appeared on ordinary objects such as serving vessels, lamps, and mirrors, as well as among the art collections of wealthy homes.\n\nRespectable Roman women were portrayed clothed. Partial nudity of goddesses in Roman Imperial art, however, can highlight the breasts as dignified but pleasurable images of nurturing, abundance, and peacefulness. The completely nude female body as portrayed in sculpture was thought to embody a universal concept of Venus, whose counterpart Aphrodite is the goddess most often depicted as a nude in Greek art. By the 1st century AD, Roman art showed a broad interest in the female nude engaged in varied activities, including sex.\n\nThe erotic art found in Pompeii and Herculaneum may depict women, performing sex acts either naked or often wearing a \"strophium\" (strapless bra) that covers the breasts even when otherwise nude. Latin literature describes prostitutes displaying themselves naked at the entrance to their brothel cubicles, or wearing see-through silk garments.\n\nThe display of the female body made it vulnerable; Varro thought the Latin word for \"sight, gaze\", \"visus\", was etymologically related to \"vis\", \"force, power\". The connection between \"visus\" and \"vis\", he said, also implied the potential for violation, just as Actaeon gazing on the naked Diana violated the goddess.\n\nOne exception to public nudity was the baths, though attitudes toward nude bathing also changed over time. In the 2nd century BC, Cato preferred not to bathe in the presence of his son, and Plutarch implies that for Romans of these earlier times it was considered shameful for mature men to expose their bodies to younger males. Later, however, men and women might even bathe together. Some Hellenized or Romanized Jews resorted to epispasm, a surgical procedure to restore the foreskin \"for the sake of decorum\".\n\nSumo wrestling, practiced by men in ceremonial dress of loincloth size that exposes the buttocks like a jock strap, in general is considered sacred under Shintō. Public, communal bathing of mixed sexes also has a long history in Japan. Public toplessness was generally considered acceptable as well until the post-WWII US occupation when General Douglas MacArthur passed edicts requiring women to cover their breasts and banning pornography that contained close-up shots of genitalia.\n\nPublic nudity was quite normal and commonplace in Japan until the Meiji Restoration. Commodore Matthew Perry's interpreter Rev. S. Well Williams wrote \"Modesty, judging from what we see, might be said to be unknown, for the women make no attempt to hide the bosom, and every step shows the leg above the knee; while men generally go with the merest bit of rag, and that not always carefully put on. Naked men and women have both been seen in the streets, and uniformly resort to the same bath house, regardless of all decency. Lewd motions, pictures and talk seem to be the common expression of the viler acts and thoughts of the people, and this to such a degree as to disgust everybody.\"\n\nAfter the Meiji Restoration, the Japanese government began a campaign to institute a uniform national culture and suppress practices such as public nudity and urination that were unsightly, unhygienic, and disturbing to foreign visitors. Mixed gender bathing was banned. Enforcement of these rules was not consistent and most often occurred in Tokyo and other major cities with a high number of foreign visitors.\n\nDespite the lack of taboos on public nudity, traditional Japanese art seldom depicted nude individuals except for paintings of bathhouses. When the first embassies opened in Western countries in the late 19th century, Japanese dignitaries were shocked and offended at the European predilection for nude statues and busts. However, Japanese students traveling to Europe to study became exposed to Western art and its frequent nudity. In 1894, Kuroda Seikia was the first Japanese artist to publicly exhibit a painting of a nude woman grooming herself. The work caused a public uproar, but gradually nudity became more accepted in Japanese art and by the 1910s, it was commonplace and acceptable as long as pubic hair was not shown. By the 1930s, pubes were accepted as long as they were not overly detailed or the main focus of the picture. However, pornographic art that featured graphic depictions of nudity and sexual acts already existed in Japan for centuries, called Shunga.\n\nIn traditional Japanese culture, nudity was typically associated with the lower class of society, i.e. those who performed manual labor and frequently wore little when the weather permitted. The upper class, for comparison, were expected to be modest and fully clothed, with fine clothing in particular considered more erotic than nudity itself. After the Meiji Restoration, upper-class Japanese began adopting Western clothing, which included underwear, something not part of the traditional Japanese wardrobe except for loincloths worn by men.\n\nUnderwear was, however, not commonly worn in Japan until after WWII despite the government's attempts to impose Western standards. The disastrous 1923 earthquake in Tokyo was widely used as a pretext to enforce them, as government propaganda claimed that many women perished because they were afraid to jump or climb out of ruined or burning buildings due to their kimonos flying open and exposing their privates. In reality, it had more to do with lack of proper building standards and traditional Japanese homes being constructed with flammable paper and wood; moreover, there was no evidence that women were concerned about accidentally exposing themselves, especially since the majority of Japanese at this time still wore traditional outfits with no undergarments.\n\nAfter WWII, when Japan was occupied by the Allied military, public nudity was more extensively suppressed and Western clothing, which included boxer shorts, briefs, brassieres, and panties, became normal.\n\nIn some hunter-gatherer cultures in warm climates, nudity (or near-complete nudity) has been, until the introduction of Western culture or Islam, or still is, the social norm for both men and women.\n\nComplete nudity among men and complete or near-complete nudity among women is still common for Mursi, Surma, Nuba, Karimojong, Kirdi, Dinka and sometimes Maasai people in Africa, as well as Matses, Yanomami, Suruwaha, Xingu, Matis and Galdu people in South America. Many indigenous peoples in Africa and South America train and perform sport competitions naked Nuba people in South Sudan and xingu tribe in the Amazon region in Brazil, for example, wrestle naked, whereas Dinka, Surma and Mursi in South Sudan and Ethiopia, arrange stick fights. Indian male monks Digambara practice yoga naked (or sky-clad, as they prefer to call it). With the ever-increasing influences of Western and Muslim cultures, these traditions may soon vanish though.\n\nIn some African and Melanesian cultures, men going completely naked except for a string tied about the waist are considered properly dressed for hunting and other traditional group activities. In a number of tribes in the South Pacific island of New Guinea, men use hard gourdlike pods as \"penis sheaths\". Yet a man without this \"covering\" could be considered to be in an embarrassing state of nakedness. Among the Chumash people of southern California, men were usually naked, and women were often topless. Native Americans of the Amazon Basin usually went nude or nearly nude; in many native tribes, the only clothing worn was some device worn by men to clamp the foreskin shut. However, other similar cultures have had different standards. For example, other native North Americans avoided total nudity, and the Native Americans of the mountains and west of South America, such as the Quechuas, kept quite covered. These taboos normally only applied to adults; Native American children often went naked until puberty if the weather permitted (a 10-year-old Pocahontas scandalized the Jamestown settlers by appearing at their camp in the nude).\n\nIbn Battuta (1304–1369) judges the character of the people of Mali:\n\nIn 1498, at Trinity Island, Trinidad, Christopher Columbus found the women entirely naked, whereas the men wore a light girdle called \"guayaco\". At the same epoch, on the Para Coast of Brazil, the girls were distinguished from the married women by their absolute nudity. The same absence of costume was observed among the Chaymas of Cumaná, Venezuela, and Du Chaillu noticed the same among the Achiras in Gabon.\n\nIn Europe up until the 18th century, non-segregated bathing in rivers was the norm. In addition, toplessness was widely accepted among all social classes and women from queens to prostitutes commonly wore outfits designed to bare the breasts. During the Enlightenment, taboos against nudity began to grow and by the Victorian era, public nakedness was considered obscene. In addition to beaches being segregated by gender, bathing machines were also used to allow people who had changed into bathing suits to enter directly into the water. During the 1860s, nude swimming became a public offense in Great Britain. In the early 20th century, even exposed male chests were considered unacceptable. During this period, women's bathing suits had to cover at least the thighs and exposure of more than that could lead to arrests for public lewdness. Swimwear began to move away from this extreme degree of modesty in the 1930s after Hollywood star Johnny Weissmuller began going to beaches in just shorts, after which people quickly began copying him. After WWII, the bikini was first invented in France and despite the initial scandal surrounding it, was widespread and normal by the 1960s.\n\nSport in the modern sense of the word became popular only in the 19th century. Nudity in this context was most common in Germany and the Nordic countries.\n\nIn 1924, in the Soviet Union, an informal organization called the \"Down with Shame\" movement held mass nude marches in an effort to dispel earlier, \"bourgeois\" morality. During the following decade, Stalin rose to power and quickly suppressed the radical ideas which had circulated in the early years of the Soviet Union. Nudism and pornography were prohibited, and Soviet society would remain rigidly conservative for the rest of the USSR's existence. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, a much more liberated social climate prevailed in Russia and naturist clubs and beaches reappeared.\n\nThe geographically isolated Scandinavian countries were less affected by Victorian social taboos and continued with their sauna culture. Nude swimming in rivers or lakes was a very popular tradition. In the summer, there would be wooden bathhouses, often of considerable size accommodating numerous swimmers, built partly over the water; hoardings prevented the bathers from being seen from outside. Originally the bathhouses were for men only; today there are usually separate sections for men and women.\n\nFor the Olympic Games in Stockholm in 1912, the official poster was created by a distinguished artist. It depicted several naked male athletes (their genitals obscured) and was for that reason considered too daring for distribution in certain countries. Posters for the 1920 Olympics in Antwerp, the 1924 Olympics in Paris, and the 1952 Olympics in Helsinki also featured nude male figures, evoking the classical origins of the games. The poster for the 1948 London Olympics featured the Discobolus, a nude sculpture of a discus thrower.\n\nIn the early years of the 20th century, a nudist movement began to develop in Germany which was connected to a renewed interest in classical Greek ideas of the human body. So-called Freikörperkultur (FKK) clubs sprung up during this period and started moving the German public away from much of the Victorian modesty codes they had inherited. During the 1930s, the Nazi leadership either banned naturist organizations or placed them under the control of the party, and opinion on them seems to have been divided. Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels considered nudity decadent while Heinrich Himmler and the SS endorsed it.\n\nMale nudity in the US and other Western countries was not a taboo for much of the 20th century. Social attitudes maintained that it was healthy and normal for men and boys to be nude around each other and schools, gymnasia, and other such organizations typically required nude male swimming in part for sanitary reasons due to the use of wool swimsuits. Movies, advertisements, and other media frequently showed nude male bathing or swimming. There was less tolerance for female nudity and the same schools and gyms that insisted on wool swimwear being unsanitary for males did not make an exception when women were concerned. Nonetheless, some schools did allow girls to swim nude if they wished. To cite one example, Detroit public schools began allowing nude female swimming in 1947, but ended it after a few weeks following protests from parents. Other schools continued allowing it, but it was never a universally accepted practice like nude male swimming.\n\nDuring the 1960s, there was a growing body of opinion that boys should not be required to swim nude if they didn't want to, partially from higher postwar living standards that created more expectations of privacy and also from complaints that the supposed unsanitary nature of wool swimwear did not seem to pose a problem with girls. By the 1970s, most schools and gyms in the US had become gender-integrated which put an end to nude swimming.\n\nAfter WWII, communist East Germany became famous for its nude beaches and widespread FKK culture, a rare freedom allowed in a regimented society. By comparison, naturism was not as popular in West Germany, one reason being that the churches had more influence than the secularized DDR. Following the reunification of Germany in 1990, FKK declined in popularity due to an influx of more prudish West Germans to the East as well as increased immigration of Turks and other socially conservative Muslims.\n\nIn 1957, Arkansas passed a law to make it illegal to \"advocate, demonstrate, or promote nudism.\" The law applies to both public spaces and private property.\n\nDuring the 1960s-70s, feminist groups in France and Italy lobbied for and obtained the legalization of topless beaches despite opposition from the Roman Catholic Church. Spain would eventually permit toplessness on its beaches, but only after the death of ultra-conservative Catholic dictator Francisco Franco in 1975. While public nudity is not a major taboo in continental Europe, Britain and the United States tend to view it less favorably, and naturist clubs are not as family-oriented as in Germany and elsewhere, with nude beaches being often seen as meetup locations for homosexual men cruising for sex. Nowadays, most European countries permit toplessless on normal beaches with full nudity allowed only on designated nude beaches. Despite this, it is quite normal in many parts of Europe to change clothing publicly even if the person becomes fully naked in the process, as this is taken to not count as public nudity.\n\nAn occasional—often illegal—naked sideshow is when a member of the public uses a sports venue to perform as a streaker. Streaking became more popular in the 1970s. It was not until the 1990s (and after) that nudity became expected at major public events, such as Bay to Breakers and the World Naked Bike Ride. Due to the desexualized and sex-negative approach by some contemporary nudist groups, some observers have suggested that 21st-century nudism has experienced a tinge of prudification.\n\nIn many cultures in history, there were few taboos on children being publicly naked although the point at where it becomes unacceptable has varied between the toddler stage and up until puberty is attained around the ages of 11-12 (see the above example of Pocahontas). In some Western countries since the late 20th century, public attitudes have come to consider any child nudity past the infant stage unacceptable. This has even extended to the idea of covering prepubescent girls' chests at all times in spite of the absence of breasts. As a consequence, in the US and Britain, nude babies and children have largely disappeared from advertisements and other forms of media even though they were commonplace prior to the 1970s. In one of the more notable advertising examples, the famous Coppertone Logo, which depicted a small girl having her swimsuit pulled down by a dog to expose her tan lines, was changed during the 1990s–2000s to reveal far less skin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25219951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25219951", "title": "Hollywood for Kids", "text": "Hollywood for Kids\n\nHollywood for Kids is a provider of educational workshops and after-school programs in the field of filmmaking, electronic media and cinematic arts for K-12 students worldwide.\n\nHollywood for Kids is a member of The Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (EMMY), The Recording Academy (GRAMMY), The National Press Club (Washington D.C.), National Association of Independent Schools (N.A.I.S), and the European Council for International Schools (ECIS) among many other professional and educational organizations worldwide.\n\nAll of the educational workshops presented by Hollywood for Kids are created as a collaboration between Hollywood professionals and leading child development specialist, and veteran educators\n\nHollywood for Kids offer workshops that include acting for the camera, film production, directing, cinematography, screenwriting, fashion modeling, digital animation, vocal training, accent reduction, broadcast journalism, and a few other courses related to the cinematic arts and media sciences.\n\nSome of the notable Hollywood celebrities serving as instructors for various Hollywood for Kids workshops include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3440057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3440057", "title": "Indonesians in the Philippines", "text": "Indonesians in the Philippines\n\nIndonesians in the Philippines consist of expatriates and immigrants from Indonesia residing in the Philippines, and their descendants. Among them were many formerly stateless people, legally called Persons of Indonesian descent (PID), whom the United Nations and the governments of the two countries helped to acquire citizenship.\n\nAccording to the 2000 Philippines census, there were 43,871 Indonesians in the Philippines, making them the 5th-largest group of foreigners in the Philippines. Most reside in Mindanao region, especially in Davao del Sur, Davao del Norte, Davao Oriental, Sarangani, Sultan Kudarat, North Cotabato, South Cotabato, General Santos and Davao City, although there is also a sizable Indonesian population in Metro Manila.\n\nAs the two countries are neighbors, there have been many historical migrations between the islands that today make up their national territories, and migrants from what is today Indonesia helped form many historical dynasties in the Philippines.\n\nMigrations between the territories that today make up Indonesia and the Philippines were extremely common during the ancient-era. The people of Indonesia are descendants of a common migration from the Philippines and Taiwan. Certain tribes, mostly from Sumatra and Borneo back-migrated to the Philippines, particularly to the central and southern parts. According to Visayan legend, Sri Lumay, a Malay-Tamil prince from Sumatra was among one of the earliest major settlers to Visayas. He found the Rajahnate of Cebu, and his descendants played a key role in the Spanish conquest of the Philippines.\n\nThe Sulu Archipelago was under the jurisprudence and sphere of influence of the Javanese Majapahit Empire. The Laguna Copperplate Inscription, the Philippines' oldest document found, also records interactions between the Classical Tagalog kingdoms in Luzon to that of those in modern-day Indonesia. The people of the two countries also spoke the Malay language as a lingua franca.\n\nDuring the age of Islamic sultanates and states, preachers from Sumatra helped spread Islam. Rajah Baguinda, a Minangkabau prince from Sumatra, spread Islam to the people of the Sulu Archipelago. He became a founding father for the Sultanate of Sulu. Islam in Mindanao was also introduced by the Ternateans.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonial era, most if any migrants or descendants of migrants from modern-day Indonesia were assimilated either into the Hispanized Catholic population or the Moro Muslim population. For a while, the Spanish had tried to colonize eastern Indonesia, particularly the Maluku Islands, sharing it with the Portuguese. In 1606, the Spanish conquered the Ternate Sultanate, deporting the Sultan and his family to Manila. The Spanish colonists shared it with the Dutch, and abandoned it in 1663.\n\nFrom 1925 to 1926, famous Indonesian national hero and ex-PKI member Tan Malaka lived in Manila. There he became a correspondent of the nationalist newspaper \"El Debate\", edited by Francisco Varona. Publication of Malaka's works, such as a second edition of \"Naar de Republiek Indonesia\" (December 1925) and \"Semangat Moeda\" (\"Young Spirit\"; 1926) might have been supported by Varona. There Malaka also met Mariano de los Santos, José Abad Santos, and Crisanto Evangelista.\n\nSome Indonesians, mostly from Sangirs background, came to Mindanao as early as the 1970s, settling down and married local women. However, the largest influx, consisting of fishermen and petty traders, began settling illegally in the early 1980s. They continue to maintain consciousness of their separate ethnic identity, as well as material links with Indonesia. Illegal entry and settlement is easy due to the Philippines' long coastline and insufficient personnel in the Border Crossing Office. More recently, many of the fishermen in fact have landing permits which allow them to move freely around the area where their boats are docked.\n\nAs early as 1990, the Philippine government had been attempting to get Indonesians to register with the authorities, holding out the possibility that they might be granted citizenship as an incentive. However, a survey the next year, which counted 7,200 Indonesians living illegally in the area, found that few wanted to be naturalized in the Philippines, though they hoped to obtain permanent residency in order to regularize their living situation, while 30-35% hoped to be repatriated to Indonesia. That survey found the largest community of Indonesians in Sarangani province, with others in South Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Davao City, Davao del Norte, Davao Oriental, and North Cotabato. At that time, they planned to deport 1,738 of them. In 2002, the Philippine government, alarmed by the number of Indonesian nationals implicated in recent Jemaah Islamiyah bombings in the Philippines, drew up a plan to deport a further 12,000 Indonesians from Mindanao; however, the implementation of the plan stalled due to disagreements between the Philippine and Indonesian governments over who would pay for it. Indonesians in the Philippines are often stereotyped as terrorists as a result.\n\nThe militants responsible for the 2005 beheadings of Christians were also trained in the southern Philippines.\n\nIn 2003 and again in 2005, the Philippine government initiated another survey and registration drive; that one registered 2,448 Philippine-born Indonesians, including 247 in General Santos, 371 in Glan-Sarangani, 265 in Davao del Sur, 108 in Davao City, 339 in Kiamba, Tupi and Malapatan, another 253 in Sarangani Island, 341 in Isulan, Sultan Kudarat and Kidapawan, and an additional 154 in Sarangani and Davao del Sur. The Indonesian government is also attempting to convince them to register with the local Indonesian consulate and with the Philippine government, and offered to pay their registration fees for identity documents.\n\nIn 2015, UNHCR recorded at least 8,756 registered Indonesians in Mindanao are at risk of statelessness. A year later, 664 stateless people of Indonesian descent in Mindanao were granted Philippine or Indonesian citizenship. It was part of a joint program between the Philippine government and Indonesian consulate in the Philippines to end statelessness for people of Indonesian descent living in the country. They were given a choice of either Indonesian or Filipino citizenship. Of the 664, 536 people were confirmed to have become Filipino citizens, and 128 chose to become Indonesian citizens. As of February 2016, there are 8,745 registered PIDs in Southern Philippines, consist of 3,155 in Sarangani, 2,777 in Davao Del Sur, 859 in General Santos, 688 in South Cotabato, 679 in Davao Oriental, 279 in Davao City, 176 in Sultan Kudarat, and 133 in North Cotabato.\n\nAccording to the study conducted by the UNHCR in 2012, more than 6,000 persons of Indonesian descent in southern Philippines are having problematic access to education, due to their unclear citizenship status and poverty they experienced.\n\nMeanwhile, the Philippines is becoming an increasingly popular destination for Indonesian international students, both those in short term courses, and those studying for university degrees. English as a foreign language courses are one well-known draw for students from all over Asia, but other subject areas are gaining in popularity as well. In particular, flight training courses are much cheaper in the Philippines than in Indonesia. The Asian Institute of Management also attracts many Indonesian students. There is also an Indonesian school (with dormitory for boarding students) and Indonesian Cultural Center called \"House of Indonesia\" in Davao City.\n\nThere are also many Indonesians in Metro Manila, mostly Chinese-Indonesian, who are either university students or medical residents (mostly Dermatology and Pediatrics).\n\nIndonesians in the Philippines residing in Mindanao are split between Muslims and Protestants, while the majority of them settle freely with local Filipinos and adopts local cultures and customs while maintaining their distinct Indonesian identity at the same time.\n\nIndonesians of Sangirese descent are split between Muslims and Protestants, while Minahasan or Chinese descent are mostly Protestants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9441280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9441280", "title": "Kenyah people", "text": "Kenyah people\n\nThe Kenyah people are an indigenous, Austronesian-speaking people of Borneo, living in the remote Baram (Lio Matoh, Long Selaan, Long Moh, Long Anap, Long Mekaba, Long Jeeh, Long Belaong, Long San, Long Silat, Long Tungan, etc.), Data Kakus, Data Surau, Senap River, Long Dungan, Long Busang, Long Beyak, Bintulu, Miri, Asap River resettlement for Bakun Dam, Long Bulan, Long Jawe and Belaga regions in Sarawak, Malaysia and the remote Apau Kayan, Bahau (Bau), Benua Lama, Benua Baru and Mahakam regions in East Kalimantan, Indonesia.\n\nKenyah people are divided into various tribes including the Uma Bakah, Lepo Anan, Lepo Tau, Lepu Jalan, Lepo' Tepu, Uma Kelap, Badeng ,Jamok, Lepo Agak, Bakung, Lebu Kulit, Uma Alim, Uma Timai, Uma Lasan, Lepo Ma-ut, Sambop, Lepo Ke', Lepo Ngao, Ngurek, Kiput, Long Ulai, Long Tikan, Long Sabatu, Lepo Ga, Lepo Dikan, and Lepo Pua\n\nThe Kenyah people, traditionally being swidden agriculturalists and living in longhouses (\"uma dado\"'), is an umbrella term for over 40 sub-groups that mostly share common migration histories, customs and related dialects. Kenyah people lived in longhouses in a small communities. Each longhouse consists of families who choose their own leader (headman). When they have any event or celebration such as harvest festival they will normally use the longhouse verandah (\"oseh bi'o\") to gather and deliver speeches to guide their youngsters. Normally this harvest festival celebration (\"tau bio Ramay o o Ajau\", \"pelepek uman\") is a major festival because most of them are still farmers.\n\nKenyah people are very creative and they also have composed their popular songs and melody such as \"Lan e Tuyang\", \"Kendau bimbin\", \"Ilu Kenyah Kua Lo Te'a\", \"Pabat Pibui\", \"Atek Lan\" and \"Leleng Oyau Along Leleng\". Popular traditional Kenyah musical instruments are such as \"jatung utang\" (wooden xylophone), \"sampe\" (a type of guitar), \"sampe bio\" (single stringed bass), \"lutong\" (a four- to six-string bamboo tube zither) and \"keringut\" (nose flute).\n\nChristianity is the predominant religion of Kenyah people, with the majority belonging to the Roman Catholic faith. Before the arrival of Christian missionaries, the Kenyah people practice a traditional form of animism called 'Bungan Malan Peselong Luan'. However, today are only a small number of Kenyah people who still practice the Bungan faith. It is believed that a person will ascend to \"Alo Malau\" (seven heavens) with their ancestors (\"tepun\") after death.\n\nStatistical figures, based on the Indonesian and Malaysian national censuses collected in 2000, recorded a total of 44,350 Kenyah people in East Kalimantan, Indonesia and 24,906 in Sarawak, Malaysia.\n\nThe Kenyah people are also divided into various sub-ethnic groups such as:-\n\nThe Usun Apau (aka Usun Apo) plateau (in the Plieran river valley) or Apo Kayan Highlands (a remote forested plateau in Malaysian and Indonesian border) in the present-day Indonesian province of East Kalimantan and Malaysia's Sarawak is believed by the Kenyah people to be their place of origin; which was the largest concentration site of Kenyah populations between the late 19th century to the early 1980s.\n\nThe Kenyah languages are a small family of Austronesian languages. Their language is called Kenyah.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41807713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41807713", "title": "Khatti (tribe)", "text": "Khatti (tribe)\n\nKhatti () is a Sindhi community in Sindh, Pakistan that is traditionally involved in washing clothes.\n"}
{"id": "23136043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23136043", "title": "Kosovo Maiden", "text": "Kosovo Maiden\n\nThe Kosovo Maiden or Maiden of the Blackbird Field ( / \"Kosovka devojka\") is the central figure of a poem with the same name, part of the Kosovo cycle in the Serbian epic poetry. In it, a young beauty searches the battlefield for her betrothed husband and helps wounded Serbian warriors with water, wine and bread after the Battle of Kosovo in 1389 between Serbia and the Ottoman Empire. She finally finds the wounded and dying warrior Pavle Orlović who tells her that her fiancé Milan Toplica and his blood-brothers Miloš Obilić and Ivan Kosančić are dead. Before the battle they had given her a cloak, golden ring and veil for the wedding as a promise of safe return, but they were slain and Pavle pointed to the direction of the bodies. The poem finishes with; \n\"O wretch! Evil is your fortune!<br>If I, a wretch, were to grasp a green pine,<br>Even the green pine would wither.\"\nThe poem became greatly popular as a symbol of womanly compassion and charity. Uroš Predić took up the theme in 1919 with an oil painting of the same title. In 1907, the sculptor Ivan Meštrović created a marble relief of the subject as a part of his Kosovo cycle. Another Croatian artist, Mirko Rački, painted a version of Kosovo Maiden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13830082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13830082", "title": "LGBT retirement issues in the United States", "text": "LGBT retirement issues in the United States\n\nMany retirement issues for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) and intersex people are unique from their non-LGBTI counterparts and these populations often have to take extra steps addressing their employment, health, legal and housing concerns to ensure their needs are met. Throughout the United States, \" 2 million people age 50 and older identify as LGBT, and that number is expected to double by 2030\", estimated in a study done by the Institute for Multigenerational Health at the University of Washington.\nIn 1969, the Stonewall Riots marked the start of the modern gay rights movement and increasingly LGBTQ+ people have become more visible and accepted into mainstream cultures. LGBTQ+ elders and retirees are still considered a newer phenomenon creating challenges and opportunities as a range of aging issues are becoming more understood as those who live open lives redefine commonly held beliefs and as retirees newly come out of the closet.\n\nLGBTQ+ individuals are less likely to have strong family support systems in place to have relatives to care for them during aging. They are twice as likely to enter old age living as a single person; and two and a half times more likely to live alone. Because institutionalized homophobia as well as cultural discrimination and harassment still exist, they are less likely to access health care, housing, or social services or when they do, find the experience stressful or demeaning.\n\nJoel Ginsberg, executive director of the Gay Lesbian Medical Association, asserts \"only by pursuing both strategies, encouraging institutional change and encouraging...and empowering individuals to ask for what they want will we end up with quality care for LGBT people.\"\n\nLGBTQ+ Aging Centers have opened in several major metropolitan areas with the goal of training long-term care providers about LGBT-specific issues, an area of frequent discrimination. Legislative solutions are available as well: \"California is the only state with a law saying the gay elderly have special needs, like other members of minority groups. A new law encourages training for employees and contractors who work with the elderly and permits state financing of projects like gay senior centers.\" Twenty states prohibit discrimination in housing and public accommodation on the basis of sexual orientation.\n\nBaby Boomers are putting significant visibility on the elderly population of the United States, as well as significant stressors. The overall U.S. population age rises with the retirement of Baby Boomers. Currently, there are about three million LGBT seniors above 65, with that number jumping to over six million by 2030. According to a 2010 study of over a thousand LGBTQ+ 45- to 64-year-olds and a comparative group of the same amount of baby boomers, drawn randomly from the general population, \"all boomers have the same fears about aging, are struggling to finance their retirement, have similar caregiving patterns, and similar desires for end-of-life care. However, in some respects, LGBT boomers will approach retirement differently. They have withstood many years of discrimination and say their approach to retirement and aging has been shaped by their experiences. They express concerns about being dependent on others when they become infirm. Largely single and living alone, they will rely more on close friends than family for support as they age\".\n\nHomosexual senior citizens are cited as being four times less likely to have children or grandchildren, signaling less of a support system for later-life circumstances. According to the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, homosexuals are also twice as likely to live alone. Many in such a community faced adulthood before the normalcy of same-sex partnerships and the legalization of same-sex marriage, and as such, never sought partnership status, benefits, or a long-term relationship in general.\n\nAs more people continue to live with HIV and AIDS into old age, there are new points brought to light in terms of complications, needs, and services. stigma, especially among older people living with HIV, often affects the quality of life lived. It also leads to greater isolation in old age. Stigma specifically can lessen quality of life and negatively affect self-image and behaviors, leading to the inability or lack of wanting to disclose HIV status or to seek care. There is also an increase in mental illness compared to the general aging population, often associated with the same reasonings along with a lack of specified care. Therefore, it is very integral that HIV care is provided in terms of mental health and other services to the affected elderly population at large. Administering necessary medications and coverage for such medications and cocktails is a concern and a necessity for the elderly community living with HIV/AIDs, to which there is a disproportionate amount of LGBTQ+ persons.\n\nLGBTQ+ persons were not regarded in a distinctly positive light until the advent of the 21st century, with previous portrayals being less than favorable. Seniors were even more disregarded, with most of the literature and knowledge throughout the latter half of the 20th century being focused on youth. As Berger and Kelly noted in \"Gay men and Lesbians Grown Older,\" published by the American Psychiatric Association in 1996, \"The older lesbian...is purported to be a cruel witch. Cold, unemotional, and heartless, she despises men. Devoted solely to masculine interests and career pursuits, she has no friends and is repeatedly frustrated by the rejections of younger women. The older gay man is said to become increasingly isolated and effeminate as he ages. Lacking family and friends, he is portrayed as desperately lonely. He must settle for no sex life at all, or he must prey upon young boys to satisfy his lust.\"\n\nThere is a fear of discrimination on various counts within the LGBTQ+ community, characterized by \"GLBT people [growing] older and [relying] more and more on public programs and social services for care and assistance. They may have less independence from heterosexist institutions. The fear of experiencing discrimination can reinforce social isolation, placing people at higher risk for self-neglect, decreased long-term quality life, and increased mortality risk\".\n\nBy 2030, there will be about 120,000 to 300,000 older LGBT+ retirees in nursing homes. Despite seemingly rapid change in the national perception of LGBT+ people in America, LGBTQ+ seniors face a unique set of challenges in housing. Yearly, about four million fair housing violations occur, but even more so for those discriminated against via their sexual orientation. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development released findings of discrepancies among the provisions given by housing providers, resulting in higher response rates for heterosexual rather than homosexual couples. In a specific case study featured in Michigan in 2007, persons who were LGB had \"unfavorable treatment in 32 out of 120 (27%) tests conducted\". This leads to perception of discrimination among the LGBTQ+ population, with a survey of 127 LGBTQ+ adults showing that 73% believed that retirement settings were grounds for discrimination, with a large majority believing there wouldn't be equal access to social or health services, and over thirty percent believing it would be necessary to hide their sexual orientation or gender identity to remain in a retirement facility.\n\nIn 1973, same-sex orientation was no longer viewed as a disorder, however, there has been much medical discrimination nonetheless. A 2002 survey found only three fourths of practicing physicians felt “very comfortable” taking care of an out LGB patient.\n\nIn a 2006 LAIN survey of LGBT baby boomers, less than fifty percent had confidence that healthcare workers would treat them with “dignity and respect” on account of their sexual orientation, tainting the doctor-patient relationship.\n\nThe Affordable Care Act (2011) allows many LGBTQ+ elderly to afford health care and apply for Medicaid or more affordable private health insurance, regardless of state. They also cannot be denied coverage based on pre-existing conditions when ill, as well as helping seniors under 65 gain access to Medicaid, providing free Medicare in certain cases, and lowering drug costs. There is also the added implementation of the Elder Justice Act, providing a platform against mistreatment by providers and caregivers. The law also includes spousal protections for those receiving Medicaid, to which the Obama Administration issued guidance to state directors that same-sex partners be treated the same in terms of the Medicaid coverage.\n\nElder benefits are heavily defined by benefits falling under the \"elder safety net\" such as social security, medicate, medicare, and retirement plans. The Defense of Marriage Act, passed in 1996, prevented same sex couples from attaining some of those benefits, among others, that are often given to heterosexual counterparts. When DOMA was in effect, LGBTQ+ people had lower rates of health insurance coverage than the general population due to higher costs from insurers. Federal law treated a partner's insurance as taxable income, and therefore the retirees would have to pay taxes on it; heterosexual couples would be able to get such benefits tax free, without the employers having to further pay payroll taxes on them as would employers of LGBTQ+ employees. Therefore, a lot of LGBTQ+ adults aren't offered such health care plans or simply can't afford them in the first place. As such, the Supreme Court-led dissolution of section three of said act in 2013, which defines marriage as between a man and a woman, opened up benefits to LGBTQ+ elderly. Only states that had already legalized same sex marriage could gain access to such benefits thereafter, but Obergefell v Hodges (2015) then legalized same-sex marriage nationwide, therefore giving marriage rights and the retirement abilities that come with that to LGBTQ+ citizens.\n\nThe transgender population of the United States has been fairly hidden until the late 20th century, not being exposed to the national spotlight until recently, and only being declassified as a mental illness in 2012. As the earlier set of transgender population reaches retirement age, or as older persons come out as transgender, there are certain issues that have arisen. There is a large variance in medical treatment across the United States, for example; a lasting issue is the fact that many health insurance agencies “exclude coverage of transgender-specific health care, particularly surgery”. There is discrimination in this regard and in others, with The National Transgender Discrimination Survey having cited that almost thirty percent of respondents faced verbal harassment in a medical setting. About half of the respondents also had providers who did not fully cover or understand certain transgender needs. In another issue, biological sex can contribute to certain diseases or health issues, providing a doubling of health issues compiled with the latter attained sex in correlation with their gender.\n\nAs transgender elders retire, they are often disadvantaged in the health care system. Medicare and many private health insurance coverages \"carry specific exclusions for transition-related care, which are sometimes interpreted in practice to deny coverage to transgender people for even basic medical care\". The Federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has reiterated the provision of \"hormone replacement therapy and routine preventive care such as prostate screenings, mammograms, and pelvic exams, regardless of the gender marker in the individual’s Social Security record\". These providers and the transgender patients are often unaware of such rules or of condition code 45, created by CMS in order to avoid automatic coverage denials in cases of gender discrepancies. Medicare also excludes sex reassignment surgery from its coverage, basing it as solely cosmetic. The policy \"also encourages private insurers, state Medicaid plans, and the veterans’ health care system to continue to allow similar exclusions that target care for transgender people\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12650282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12650282", "title": "Lesbophobia", "text": "Lesbophobia\n\nLesbophobia (sometimes lesbiphobia) comprises various forms of negativity towards lesbians as individuals, as couples, or as a social group. Based on the categories of sex, sexual orientation, lesbian identity, and gender expression, this negativity encompasses prejudice, discrimination, and abuse, in addition to attitudes and feelings ranging from disdain to hostility. As such, lesbophobia is sexism against women that intersects with homophobia and vice versa.\n\nWhile some people use only the more general term \"homophobia\" to describe this sort of prejudice or behavior, others believe that the terms \"homosexual\" and \"homophobia\" do not adequately reflect the specific concerns of lesbians, because they experience the double discrimination of both homophobia and sexism. Similarly, bisexual women may prefer to use the term biphobia to refer to prejudice or abuse that they encounter which is based on their bisexual identity or behaviour, and people who identify as transgender often prefer to use the word transphobia.\n\nThe idea that lesbians are dangerous—while heterosexual interactions are natural, normal, and spontaneous—is a common example of beliefs which are lesbophobic. Like homophobia, this belief is classed as heteronormative, as it assumes that heterosexuality is dominant, presumed, and normal, and that other sexual or relationship arrangements are abnormal and unnatural. A stereotype that has been identified as lesbophobic is that female athletes are always or predominantly lesbians. Lesbians encounter lesbophobic attitudes not only in straight men and women, but from gay men, as well as bisexual people. Lesbophobia in gay men is regarded as manifest in the perceived subordination of lesbian issues in the campaign for gay rights.\n\nLesbophobia is sometimes demonstrated through crimes of violence, including corrective rape and even murder. In South Africa, Sizakele Sigasa (a lesbian activist living in Soweto) and her partner Salome Masooa were raped, tortured, and murdered in July 2007 in an attack that South African lesbian-gay rights organizations, including the umbrella-group Joint Working Group, said were driven by lesbophobia. Two other rape/murders of lesbians occurred in South Africa earlier in summer 2007: Simangele Nhlapo, member of an HIV-positive support group, was raped and murdered in June, along with her two-year-old daughter; and Madoe Mafubedu, aged 16, was raped and stabbed to death.\n\nIn 2006, Zoliswa Nkonyana, aged 19, was killed for being openly lesbian by 4 men in the Cape Town township of Khayelitsha, who stabbed and stoned her to death. Banyana Banyana soccer player Eudy Simelane and LGBT activist Noxolo Nogwaza were raped and murdered in the Gauteng township of KwaThema. Zanele Muholi, community relations director of a lesbian rights group, reports having recorded 50 rape cases over the past decade involving black lesbians in townships, stating: \"The problem is largely that of patriarchy. The men who perpetrate such crimes see rape as curative and as an attempt to show women their place in society.\"\n\nMany lesbians have expressed the view that there has been an emergence of a new kind of prejudice against lesbians that is distinct from the traditional form. They feel that the use of the notion of innate sexual orientation as an argument for homosexual rights, especially in the form that claim that people on average become more accepting towards homosexuality if they think it is biological, is demonizing the notion that the individual is to be respected in his or her choices regardless of origin by falsely lumping the latter notion with homophobia. They also feel that this denigration of the concept of respect for individual choice, an artificial societal polarization that fixates homosexual rights to the concept of innateness, is leaving lesbian rights more vulnerable to being attacked by the argument that women are more erotically plastic or sexually fluid than men. Because of this argument, some lesbians report that gay men and sexologists who state that they are aligned with gay rights are demeaning lesbians because the argument is akin to stating that women do not have the same right to their sexual orientation as men because of female erotic plasticity.\n\nSome propose that information about the problems with statistics as evidence for correlations between attitudes, such as people being socially excluded from groups with a view on one matter for a different opinion on an unrelated view and being forced into other groups or forced to lie about their attitudes, making unrelated opinions falsely appear to be linked, and argue that it may help rehabilitate the notion of respect for individual choice. Others argue that since sexual orientation change efforts aimed at women often include rape, they are worse than those aimed at men. Others suggest that the notion of female erotic plasticity is wishful thinking on the part of men who want to have sex with lesbians, and should be criticized for not being objective.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3326582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3326582", "title": "List of Australian capital cities", "text": "List of Australian capital cities\n\nThere are eight capital cities in Australia, each of which functions as the seat of government for the state or territory in which it is located. Melbourne was the initial capital following the 1901 Federation of Australia. In 1927, the seat of national government was moved to the newly created city of Canberra, which continues to serve as the national capital.\n\nEach capital city hosts the judicial, administrative and legislative functions for its jurisdiction. In each state and internal territory, the capital is also the jurisdiction's most populous city.\n\nThe Australian external territory of Norfolk Island has its official capital at Kingston, although this acts merely as the administrative centre of government; its \"de facto\" capital is Burnt Pine.\n"}
{"id": "36919663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36919663", "title": "Minister for Civil Society", "text": "Minister for Civil Society\n\nThe Minister for Civil Society was a position within the Department for Culture, Media and Sport in the government of the United Kingdom. It concerned and directly supported charities, volunteering, social enterprise and the Big Society manifesto-committed agenda of the First Cameron Ministry (2010-2015) and short-lived Second Cameron Ministry.\n\nBefore the new commitments and Cabinet reshuffle on formation of the May Ministry in 2016 the Office for Civil Society supporting the Minister was part of the Cabinet Office\n\nThe post was merged with Minister of Sport to become Minister for Sport and Civil Society after the 2017 general election.\n"}
{"id": "1840153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840153", "title": "Moose International in Great Britain", "text": "Moose International in Great Britain\n\nThe Moose International of Great Britain Association (formerly known as The Grand Lodge of the Loyal Order of Moose in Great Britain) is a fraternal service organisation, which was run by the Grand Council from 1926 to 2013 until it was replaced by the National Management Committee. The current National President is Albert Skeates.\n\nThe first Director-General James J. Davies founded the Grand Lodge at his birthplace of Tredegar in Wales. The aims are the same as the Loyal Order of Moose in the United States, which are to help the orphaned and the widowed. The organisation runs many fundraising programmes for various worthy causes. The British Headquarters of Moose International are to be found in Burnham-on-Sea, Somerset. There are twenty-four chartered lodges active throughout England and Wales.\n\n+ Deceased\n\n"}
{"id": "35658492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35658492", "title": "Nemi language", "text": "Nemi language\n\nThe Nemi language is a Kanak language spoken by 320 people in the north of New Caledonia, in the commune of Hienghène.\n\n<br><br><br>\nNemi features labiovelarized plosives and voiceless nasals.\n\nVowels in Nemi have a two way length distinction.\n"}
{"id": "41844429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41844429", "title": "Open collaboration", "text": "Open collaboration\n\nOpen collaboration is \"any system of innovation or production that relies on goal-oriented yet loosely coordinated participants who interact to create a product (or service) of economic value, which they make available to contributors and noncontributors alike.\" It is prominently observed in open source software, but can also be found in many other instances, such as in Internet forums, mailing lists and online communities. Open collaboration is also thought to be the operating principle underlining a gamut of diverse ventures, including bitcoin, TEDx, and Wikipedia.\n\nOpen collaboration is the principle underlying peer production, mass collaboration, and wikinomics. It was observed initially in open source software, but can also be found in many other instances, such as in Internet forums, mailing lists, Internet communities, and many instances of open content, such as creative commons. It also explains some instances of crowdsourcing, collaborative consumption, and open innovation.\n\nRiehle et al. define open collaboration as collaboration based on three principles of egalitarianism, meritocracy, and self-organization. Levine and Prietula define open collaboration as \"any system of innovation or production that relies on goal-oriented yet loosely coordinated participants who interact to create a product (or service) of economic value, which they make available to contributors and noncontributors alike.\" This definition captures multiple instances, all joined by similar principles. For example, all of the elements — goods of economic value, open access to contribute and consume, interaction and exchange, purposeful yet loosely coordinated work — are present in an open source software project, in Wikipedia, or in a user forum or community. They can also be present in a commercial website that is based on user-generated content. In all of these instances of open collaboration, anyone can contribute and anyone can freely partake in the fruits of sharing, which are produced by interacting participants who are loosely coordinated.\n\nAn annual conference dedicated to the research and practice of open collaboration is the International Symposium on Wikis and Open Collaboration (OpenSym, formerly WikiSym). As per its website, the group defines open collaboration as \"collaboration that is egalitarian (everyone can join, no principled or artificial barriers to participation exist), meritocratic (decisions and status are merit-based rather than imposed) and self-organizing (processes adapt to people rather than people adapt to pre-defined processes).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "52433684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52433684", "title": "Open manufacturing", "text": "Open manufacturing\n\nOpen Manufacturing or \"Open Production\" or \"Design Global, Manufacture Local\" is a new model of socioeconomic production in which physical objects are produced in an open, collaborative and distributed manner and based on open design and open source principles.\n\nOpen manufacturing combines the following elements of a production process: new open production tools and methods (such as 3D printers), new value-based movements (such as the maker movement), new institutions and networks for manufacturing and production (such as FabLabs), and open source methods, software and protocols. \n\nOpen manufacturing may also include digital modeling and fabrication and computer numeric control (CNC) of the machines used for production through open source software and open source hardware.\n\nThe philosophy of open manufacturing is close to the open-source movement, but aims at the development of physical products rather than software. The term is linked to the notion of democratizing technology as embodied in the Maker culture, the DIY ethic, the open source appropriate technology movement, the Fablab-network and other rooms for grassroot innovation such as hackerspaces.\n\nAccording to scholar Michel Bauwens, Open Manufacturing is \"the expansion of peer production to the world of physical production\".\n\nRedlich and Bruns define \"Open Production\" as \"a new form of coordination for production systems that implies a superior broker system coordinating the information and material flows between the stakeholders of production\", and which will encompass the entire value creation process for physical goods: development, manufacturing, sales, support etc.\n\nA policy paper commissioned by the European Commission uses the term \"maker manufacturing\" and positions it between social innovation, open source ICT and manufacturing.\n\nThe Openness of \"open manufacturing\" may relate to the nature of the product (open design), to the nature of the production machines and methods (e.g. open source 3D-printers, open source CNC), to the process of production and innovation (commons-based peer production / collaborative / distributed manufacturing), or to new forms of value creation (network-based bottom-up or hybrid versus business-centric top down). Jeremy Rifkin argues, that open production through 3D-printing \"will eventually and inevitably reduce marginal costs to near zero, eliminate profit, and make property exchange in markets unnecessary for many (though not all) products\".\n\nThe following points are seen as key implications of open manufacturing:\nIn the context of socioeconomic development, open manufacturing has been described as a path towards a more sustainable industrialization on a global scale, that promotes \"social sustainability\" and provides the opportunity to shift to a \"collaboration-oriented industrialization driven by stakeholders from countries with different development status connected in a global value creation at eye level\".\n\nFor developing countries, open production could notably lead to products more adapted to local problems and local markets and reduce dependencies on foreign goods, as vital products could be manufactured locally. In such a context, open manufacturing is strongly linked to the broader concept of Open Source Appropriate Technology movement.\n\nA number of factors are seen to hamper the broad-based application of the model of \"open manufacturing\" and / or to realize its positive implications for more sustainable global production pattern.\n\nThe first factor is the sustainability of commons-based peer production models: \"Empowerment happens only, if the participants are willing to share their knowledge with their colleagues. The participation of the actors cannot be guaranteed, thus there are many cases known, where participation could only be insufficiently realized\". Other problems include missing or inadequate systems of quality control, the persistent paradigm of high-volume manufacturing and its cost-efficiency, the lack of widely adopted platforms to share hardware designs, as well as challenges linked to the joint-ownership paradigm behind the open licences of open manufacturing and the fact, that hardware is much more difficult to share and to standardize than e.g. software.\n\nIn developing countries, a number of factors need to be considered in addition to the points above. Scholar Waldman-Brown names the following: lack of manufacturing expertise and informality of current SMMs in emerging markets as an obstacle to quality control for final products and raw material as well as universities and vocational training programs not apt to react rapidly enough to provide the necessary knowledge and qualifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1283097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1283097", "title": "Paiwan language", "text": "Paiwan language\n\nPaiwan is a native language of Taiwan, spoken by the Paiwan, a Taiwanese indigenous people. Paiwan is a Formosan language of the Austronesian language family. It is also one of national languages of Taiwan. The number of speakers is estimated to be 66,000.\n\nPaiwan variants can be divided into the following dialect zones (Ferrell 1982:4–6).\n\n\nThis classification were though be corrected by Cheng 2016 as below:\nNote: A village unnoted of Vuculj/Ravar is by default placed under Vuculj here. \n\nKuɬaɬau Paiwan has 23–24 consonants ( is found only in loanwords, and is uncommon) and 4 vowels (Ferrell 1982:7). Unlike many other Formosan languages that have merged many Proto-Austronesian phonemes, Paiwan preserves most Proto-Austronesian phonemes and is thus highly important for reconstruction purposes.\n\nThe four Paiwan vowels are . is written \"e\" in the literature.\n\nIn Northern Paiwan the palatal consonants have been lost, though this is recent and a few conservative speakers maintain them as allophonic variants (not as distinct phonemes). is robust, unlike in other Paiwan dialects where its status is uncertain, as it derives from *q.\n\nYounger speakers tend to pronounce as . Fricative is characteristic of Mudan village; elsewhere is Southern Paiwan it tends to be a trill , though it still varies . Word-initial *k has become .\n\nThe Paiwan personal pronouns below are from Ferrell (1982:14).\n\nPaiwan has 3 construction markers, which are also known as relational particles (Ferrell 1982:13).\n\n\nOther words include:\n\nAffixed adverbials include (Ferrell 1982:14):\n\nInterjections include (Ferrell 1982:12):\n\nPaiwan verbs have 4 types of focus (Ferrell 1982:30).\n\n\nThe following verbal affixes are used to express varying degrees of volition or intent, and are arranged below from highest to lowest intention (Ferrell 1982:37).\n\n\nPaiwan verbs can also take on the following non-derivational suffixes (Ferrell 1982:13).\n\nThe Paiwan affixes below are from the Kulalao dialect unless stated otherwise, and are sourced from Ferrell (1982:15–27).\n\n\nThe following affixes are from the Tjuabar dialect of Paiwan, spoken in the northwest areas of Paiwan-occupied territory (\"Comparative Austronesian Dictionary\" 1995).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1438230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438230", "title": "Pavlo Lazarenko", "text": "Pavlo Lazarenko\n\nPavlo Ivanovych Lazarenko (; born 23 January 1953) is a former Ukrainian politician and former Prime Minister who in August 2006 was convicted and sentenced to prison in the United States for money laundering, wire fraud and extortion. According to United Nations, approximately US$200 million was embezzled by Lazarenko during 1996–97 from the government of Ukraine.\n\nPavlo Lazarenko was born in a village of Karpivka (Shyroke Raion) that is located just outside a former Inhulets city (today part of Kryvyi Rih) on 23 January 1953 in peasant family (gardener). In 1970 he worked as a driver in the kolkhoz \"Zoria Komunizma\" (Dawn of Communism) in Shyroke Raion. From May 1971 to June 1973 Lazarenko served in the Soviet Army on the border with Afghanistan. After that in 1973-1978 he studied at the in Agronomic Department.\n\nAfter graduating Lazarenko received a specialty of agronomist. From 1978 to 1983 he worked as agronomist, chief agronomist, and head of kolkhoz administration in the Kalinin kolkhoz, Novomoskovsk Raion.\n\nIn 1984, Lazarenko was appointed a head of agricultural department of Tsarychanka Raion. From 1985 to 1987 he worked as a Communist party functionary in Tsarychanka Raion. In 1987-90 Lazarenko worked for the Communist Party of Dnipropetrovsk region in agricultural production and food industry sectors. In February 1990 he was elected a head of Agro-Industrial Complex of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast. In August 1991 Lazarenko was elected as the first deputy of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast Governor office, while he also was appointed a director of the regional department of agriculture.\n\nIn March 1992, the President of Ukraine Leonid Kravchuk appointed Lazarenko the representative of President of Ukraine in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast. Lazarenko's candidacy was nominated by the council of working groups conference of the Dnipropetrovsk State Agrarian University whose decision was supported by over 200 groups. Leonid Kuchma at that time was proposing another candidacy of Valeriy Pustovoitenko. Lazarenko stayed at the governor position until June 1994. Although he sided with incumbent Kravchuk in the 1994 elections (June–July), he managed to establish close ties with the election winner, Leonid Kuchma. Upon recommendation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine Yevhen Marchuk, the President of Ukraine Leonid Kuchma appointed Pavlo Lazarenko the First Vice Prime Minister (in Energy Affairs) on 5 September 1995. As the government official in energy affairs, he was charged with a task of negotiating gas supplies with Russia and Turkmenistan. Already next year in 1996 Ukraine reported no debts to the Russian Gazprom (Gas Industries) for the first since its independence. In 1996 Lazarenko became Doctor of Economic Sciences.\n\nOn 28 May 1996, Kuchma confirmed Lazarenko as the Prime Minister of Ukraine within the powers stipulated by the current \"Constitutional Agreement\". On 10 July 1996, less than two weeks after adopting a new Constitution of Ukraine, the Verkhovna Rada approved the appointment of prime-minister. On 16 July 1996 Lazarenko survived an attempt on his life when a bomb exploded near his blocked car en route from Kiev to Boryspil airport.\n\nWhile in charge of the Cabinet, Lazarenko reportedly exercised control over many lucrative business projects and speculatively charged 50 percent of profits for his patronage. At that time, he maintained a close business relationship with Yulia Tymoshenko, then the CEO of \"Yedyni Energosystemy Ukrayiny\" (United Energy Systems of Ukraine), a monopoly that imported Russian natural gas.\n\nLazarenko was involved in a prolonged and bitter struggle for economic domination with the emerging \"Donetsk clan\" (an industrial group based in Donetsk). Some Ukrainian media indirectly accused Yevhen Shcherban, the leader of the Liberal Party of Ukraine, of the 1996 assassination attempt on Lazarenko. Conversely, others speculated that Shcherban's murder was a tit-for-tat order by the Prime Minister.\n\nHe may have also plotted against Oleksandr Volkov, a close associate of President Kuchma. Reportedly, Volkov became aware of the planned assassination and made a phone call to Lazarenko threatening appropriate revenge.\n\nBy mid-1997, Lazarenko had fallen out of favor with Kuchma, who suspected him of making plans to run for presidency in 1999. Kuchma later regretted Lazarenko's appointment as \"my gravest mistake\".\n\nLazarenko, who had no previous record of serious illness, was unexpectedly hospitalized in late June 1997. It is speculated that he spent the two weeks of the leave for his supposed sickness in vain attempts to mend fences with Kuchma. Technically, under the Ukrainian labor code law, a hospitalized individual may not be terminated from his position. However, when his dismissal became imminent, Lazarenko resigned on 2 July 1997, on his own initiative.\n\nOn 12 May 1998, he was elected to the parliament again from the N40 electoral district of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast as part of Hromada opposition party. In parliament Lazarenko became a leader of the Hromada parliamentary faction. Hromada frequently sided with the Socialist parliamentary faction of Oleksandr Moroz.\n\nLazarenko was detained in December 1998 on money-laundering charges as he crossed by car from France into Switzerland. He was released on bail a few weeks later after giving surety of three million dollars. Details of his arrest in Switzerland led to a political scandal in Ukraine as rumours spread about Lazarenko attempting to cross the Swiss border with a Panamanian passport. The public uproar was in part instigated by President Kuchma's administration, who pressed for Lazarenko's arrest.\n\nThe Verkhovna Rada voted to waive Lazarenko's parliamentary immunity on 17 February 1999; however, Lazarenko fled the country on the eve of the parliamentary vote. He initially stopped in Greece but was detained in New York at JFK airport on 20 February 1999, on suspicion of illegally entering the United States. Lazarenko was reported to have a large amount of documents with him, including a Ukrainian diplomatic passport with an outdated U.S. visa, and he requested political asylum. Lazarenko was transferred to a jail in San Francisco, since his family owned a ranch in California. Ukrainian authorities requested his extradition in 2000, after charging him over the 1996 killing of Yevhen Shcherban and two attempts on the lives of high-ranking officials. The office of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine also claimed that Lazarenko instigated the assassination of Vadym Hetman in late April 1998.\n\nIn the United States, Lazarenko was put on trial for money-laundering, corruption, and fraud. Attorney Daniel Horowitz represented Lazarenko on charges arising out of his operation of the Ukrainian gas business, Doron Weinberg represented him regarding charges of extortion of a business partner. The judge dismissed more than half the charges, but allowed the remaining charges to be presented to the jury for decision. In late May 2004 a federal jury in San Francisco found him guilty of using his position to get rich through a series of business schemes; with Transparency International naming Lazarenko the eighth most corrupt political leader in recent history that the same year. In October 2005, Lazarenko stated his intention to return to Ukraine in order to run in the March 2006 parliamentary elections; however Lazarenko remained under house arrest at an undisclosed location on $86 million bail from June 2004 until August 2006 after being convicted by a twelve-member jury.\n\nLazarenko was sentenced to 9 years in federal prison on 25 August 2006. On 18 October 2006 an appeal stemming from Lazarenko's conviction (but not the appeal of the conviction) was heard by a three judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which included former Associate Justice of the Supreme Court Sandra Day O'Connor sitting by designation. Lazarenko was incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution in Dublin, California. U.S. District Court Judge Charles Breyer cut Lazarenko's sentence from 108 to 97 months in prison on 19 November 2009. The court took into account that the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals had dismissed approximately half the counts he was convicted of, leaving convictions only for acts committed 17 years previously. In November 2009 Ukrainian Interior Minister Yuriy Lutsenko stated that if Lazarenko returns to Ukraine he will be detained as he is on the international wanted list.\n\nHe was imprisoned at FCI Terminal Island until 1 November 2012. Since then he applied for residency in the United States. According to Lazarenko's defense lawyer Viktor Chevhuz the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services will deal with this application by the end of 2013. According to Chevhuz this could lead to the demand to Lazarenko to leave the country within 72 hours with the right to fly anywhere; \"Or a deportation to a country from which he arrived - Greece, because there is no extradition treaty with Ukraine\". Chevhuz further expected Lazarenko to not return to Ukraine \"as the criminal cases against him, which had been previously dropped, may be reopened\". Immediately after his 1 November 2012 release the Prosecutor General's Office of Ukraine stated that as soon as Lazarenko would return to Ukraine he would be arrested; for his involvement in around 50 criminal cases. Lazarenko owns a luxurious mansion in Marin County, California which was bought with money looted from the Ukrainian budget.\n\nIn 2012, the Prosecutor General of Ukraine Viktor Pshonka suspected the involvement of Lazarenko (with Yulia Tymoshenko) in the murder of Donetsk businessman Yevhen Shcherban and Alexander Momot in 1996, and the assassination of banker Vadym Hetman in 1998; Lazarenko has denied involvement in all these cases.\n\nAccording to an official count by the United Nations, approximately $200,000,000 was looted by Lazarenko during 1996–1997 from the government of Ukraine.\n\nLazarenko is reported to have abused his official authority as the Ukrainian Prime Minister to extort nearly 50 percent of businessman Peter Kiritchenko's $60 million in profits. Lazarenko then ordered him to assist in laundering the proceeds to accounts in Poland, Switzerland, Antigua, and eventually in the United States, where a shell company was used to conceal his property pucrchases. Kiritchenko pleaded guilty to one count of receipt of stolen property and agreed to testify against Lazarenko.\n\nIn 1998, he made unlawful transfers of $2.3 million from one Dugsbery account at WestAmerica Bank, which can be traced back to Mr. Lazarenko’s Lady Lake bank account in the Bahamas, to an account at Bank Boston Robertson Stevens. Both the funds in this account and those in a San Francisco EuroFed can be traced back to Lazarenko’s CARPO-53 account, where he deposited funds from the Naukovy fraud and from his extortion of Mr. Kiritchenko's funds. In total, Lazarenko was found to have laundered over $15 million from his Swiss bank account which ultimately ended up in Kiritchenko's EuroFed accounts in San Francisco. A Geneve court in June 2000 tried and convicted in absentia Lazarenko for laundering $6.6 million in illicit proceeds.\nIn a special investigative report conducted by Kelly Carr and Brian Grow, two Reuter's journalists, it is stated that Lazarenko \"was once ranked the eighth-most corrupt official in the world by watchdog group Transparency International\" and that \"Court records submitted in Lazarenko's criminal case and documents from a separate civil lawsuit, as well as interviews with lawyers familiar with the matter, indicate Lazarenko controls a shelf company incorporated in Cheyenne that owns an estimated $72 million in real estate in Ukraine through other companies\". That shelf company, a special type of shell company, is named Capital Investments Group.\n\nHe acquired majority of his illegal funds through his activities in the gas and energy sector of Ukraine, where he was Energy Minister in the mid-1990s. He was reported by Radio Free Europe to have been guilty of money laundering in the United States and has routinely been on Transparency International's lists of most corrupt officials.\n\nIn the 2004 Global Corruption Report, Lazarenko made it into the list of the World's Most Corrupt Leaders. He was listed eighth and was said to have amassed between $114 million to $200 million.\n\nIn 2013, US authorities confiscated his $6.75 million California mansion in connection with his money laundering conviction from a decade before. Authorities have also sanctioned the seizure of a Pablo Picasso lithograph he is rumored to possess.\n\nLazarenko was married to his wife Tamara (born 1954) and has one son and two daughters. According to \"The Ukrainian Weekly\"; at the time of his arrest in December 1998 Lazarenko's wife and children were living in a mansion worth US$7 million in Novato, near San Francisco. USA.\nLazarenko's son is Roman Lazarenko, born April 17, 2001. Roman was attacked and later discovered missing. \n\nLazarenko's father Ivan Tryfonovych was born in 1926 in the Hnidyn village, Boryspil Raion. Right after his birth he along with his parents moved to the . Father of Ivan Tryfonovych was a market gardener. In 1932 the family moved to Karpivka, where grandfather Tryfon established a market garden of . In 1944 he went to front and never came back. Ivan Tryfonovych also became a gardener and established another garden in Karpivka of . In 1954 he was appointed a head of a local kolkhoz and later in the neighbouring village. In 1956 Ivan Tryfonovych joined the ranks of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.\n\nLazarenko's older brother Mykola worked as a chairman of the Hnidyn rural council in 1975-86 and later in the Inhulets Ore Enrichment Works. Lazarenko's younger brother Ivan worked in one of agricultural companies of the Novomoskovsk Raion.\n\nLazarenko is currently married to Oksana Tsykova an attorney in Daniel Horowitz's Law Practice in the California East San Francisco Bay Area \n\nPavlo Lazarenko activity was investigated by many Ukrainian journalists. Among them the most notable success was achieved by the following ones:\n\n\nIn 2008, according to the results of collective investigative journalism, the book \"The Phenomenon of Lazarenko. Villain or Genius?\" edited by Vadym Klymentyev was published. It was dedicated to the analysis of the politicians’ life course\n\nAccording to the results of investigations of journalist Boris Filatov two documentaries, that revealed the essence of the charges against Mr. Lazarenko in the U.S., were filmed\n\nLazarenko is a recipient of the Order of Prince Yaroslav the Wise in 1995 and two orders of Saint Volodymyr from the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35623356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35623356", "title": "Portuguese Crown Jewels", "text": "Portuguese Crown Jewels\n\nThe Portuguese Crown Jewels were the pieces of jewelry, regalia, and vestments worn by the Monarchs of Portugal during the time of the Portuguese Monarchy. Over the nine centuries of Portuguese history, the Portuguese Crown Jewels have lost and gained many pieces. Most of the current set of the Portuguese Crown Jewels are from the reigns of King João VI and King Luís I.\n\nBy the reign of King Manuel I (1495–1521), Portugal had already a lavish set of jewels, the king having been one of the most powerful men in the world at the time and having been known to show off.\n\nIn early 1581 King António I fled to France after King Philip I was made the King of Portugal. António I took with him the Portuguese Crown Jewels, including many valuable diamonds. Being well received by the French Queen Consort, Catherine de' Medici, he sold her some of the pieces of the Portuguese Crown Jewels in return for France's support in his plans to reclaim the throne of Portugal and depose Philip I.\n\nAfter several failed attempts to reclaim the Portuguese Crown, António I fell into poverty. His poverty led him to sell many of the remaining diamonds. The last and finest diamond of the Portuguese Crown Jewels, the Sancy, would be acquired by Nicolas de Harlay, seigneur de Sancy,\n\nDuring the Portuguese Restoration War, João II of Braganza sold many of the Portuguese Crown Jewels to finance the war with Spain. When João II became King of Portugal as João IV and deposed the Philippine Dynasty in 1640, he placed his crown with a statue of Our Lady of Immaculate Conception and said that she was the \"true Queen of Portugal\". Since then, Portuguese monarchs did not have a coronation but instead an acclamation. Before the assumption of the Portuguese throne by the Philippine Dynasty, the Kings of Portugal used to be anointed and crowned in the Jeronimos Monastery in Lisbon.\n\nIn 1755 the Great Lisbon earthquake destroyed Lisbon and the Paço da Ribeira, the Portuguese royal residence of the time. With the destruction of the palace, innumerable pieces of the Portuguese Crown Jewels of the time were destroyed, lost, or stolen.\n\nWhile his court was in Rio de Janeiro, João VI had a new set of Portuguese Crown Jewels made. Constructed by the royal jewelers at the workshop of António Gomes da Silva, the set most notably included a new crown and sceptre, among a plethora of jewelry pieces. The pieces from this era are the majority of the current set of jewels.\n\nWhen Maria Pia of Savoy became Queen Consort of Portugal, King Luís I ordered many pieces of jewelry to be made, as it was a passion of his wife. Alongside this, he had a new royal mantle produced.\n\nWhen the Portuguese Royal Family was exiled, many of the jewels were taken with Queen Amélie of Orléans and Queen Mother Maria Pia of Savoy on their respective exiles.\n\nIn 2002 a large part of the Portuguese Crown Jewels were stolen from the Museon in The Hague, where they were on loan for an exhibition on European Crown Jewels. Following an investigation by the museum and Dutch authorities, the Dutch government paid a sum of six million euros to the Portuguese government for reparation.\n\nThe Portuguese Crown Jewels are currently kept in a secured vault at the Ajuda National Palace, in Lisbon. While the palace is a popular and important museum, the crown jewels are not open to the public. The crown jewels are now only seen at special events concerning them or the palace specifically, a repercussion of the 2002 Hague theft.\n\nThough the Portuguese Crown Jewels have had a long history, wars, theft, and devastation have reduced the jewels mainly to those produced under the reigns of João VI and Luís I. The current set of crown jewels includes numerous pieces of jewelry, gold, gems, robes, and other regalia, but most notably:\n\nThe Crown of João VI is an imperial format crown. A unique feature of the crown is that it is composed only of pure gold and red velvet, without a single precious stone or gem — an oddity amongst European crowns of the time. The crown was made in 1817 for the acclamation of King João VI. It was created in the workshop of the Royal Jeweler, Dom António Gomes da Silva, in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe Sceptre of the Armillary is the sceptre that was created for the acclamation of King João VI, in the workshop of the Royal Jeweler, Dom António Gomes da Silva, in Rio de Janeiro. The sceptre bears the symbols of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil, and the Algarve, Portugal's designation during João VI's stay in Brazil.\n\nThe Mantle of João VI is the royal robe that was fashioned for the acclamation of King João VI. The mantle was fashioned in Portugal, even though João VI's court was in Brazil. The royal robe bears many symbols of the Kingdom of Portugal and was only used by João VI.\n\nThe Sceptre of the Dragon is the sceptre that was created for the acclamation and use of Queen Maria II, in London, England. The sceptre bears many symbols pertaining to Portugal's new constitution, though Portugal would commence its War of the Two Brothers later the year the sceptre was created.\n\nThe Mantle of Luís I is the royal robe that was fashioned for the acclamation of King Luís I. The mantle was fashioned in Portugal and bears many symbols of the Kingdom of Portugal. Though originally made for Luís I, it was used by all the monarchs of Portugal afterwards.\n\nThe Diadem of the Stars is a famous Portuguese diamond tiara. It was commissioned by the Consort of King Luís I, Queen Maria Pia of Savoy. The tiara is just a piece of a whole set of jewelry, famed for its precious diamonds and sapphires, commissioned by Maria Pia, famous for her love in the arts of fashion and jewelry.\n\nThe Necklace of the Stars is a famous diamond necklace. It was commissioned by Queen Maria Pia of Savoy, the Consort of King Luís I. The necklace is a piece the set of jewelry commissioned by the queen, which includes the famed Diadem of the Stars, the counterpart of the necklace.\n\nWhen the Portuguese First Republic was proclaimed, the Portuguese Royal family went into exile. Only having an extremely short time to pack up and go, the family brought only a fraction of the personal jewels they owned. The jewels that were left and were private possession to the family, not the official crown jewels, were given to House of Braganza Foundation. Many years after her exile, Queen Amélie of Orléans sold some of her jewels, such as her famous ruby and diamond tiara to American socialite, Barbara Hutton. The remainder of her jewels were either left to members of her family in France, or to the House of Braganza Foundation.\n\nThe current Portuguese Royal Family has a set of jewels that can be divided into two sets. The first set are the jewels that Duarte Pio, Duke of Braganza inherited from his mother, Princess Maria Francisca de Orleães e Bragança, great-granddaughter of Emperor Pedro II of Brazil and great-great-granddaughter of King Pedro IV of Portugal. The second set are jewels that are owned by House of Braganza Foundation. These jewels, though not owned by the Duke, are at the disposal of the Duke and Duchess.\n\n"}
{"id": "16041881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16041881", "title": "Prostitution in Ethiopia", "text": "Prostitution in Ethiopia\n\nProstitution in Ethiopia is legal, and widespread. Procuring (operating brothels, benefiting from prostitution, etc.) is illegal according to Article 634 of the Ethiopian Penal Code, as revised May 2005, however these laws are rarely enforced. Some feel it has contributed to the increased incidence of AIDS. UNAIDS estimate there are over 19,000 prostitutes in the major cities.\n\nEthiopia has become a magnet for sex tourism, including child sex tourism.\n\nIn 2015, Ethiopian scriptwriter and film director, Hermon Hailay, directed the film Price of Love, which was inspired by her experiences growing up close to prostitutes.\n\nEthiopia is a source and, to a lesser extent, destination and transit country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Saudi Arabia remains the primary destination for irregular migrants; reportedly, over 400,000 Ethiopians reside there. Saudi officials regularly deport Ethiopians in large numbers, and many of the deportees reported instances of sexual exploitation. Ethiopian women who migrate for work or flee abusive employers in the Middle East are also vulnerable to sex trafficking. An international organization assesses that most traffickers are small local operators, often from the victims’ own communities, but that well-organized crime groups are also responsible for irregular migrants becoming highly susceptible to trafficking. Labor recruiters target young people from Ethiopia’s vast rural areas with promises of a better life. Although reports remain anecdotal, the severe drought in 2015-2016 may have resulted in an increase in internal trafficking. Girls from Ethiopia’s impoverished rural areas are exploited in commercial sex within the country. Addis Ababa’s central market is the site of numerous brothels, where some young girls are exploited in commercial sex. Ethiopian girls are exploited in commercial sex in neighbouring African countries, particularly Sudan. Child sex tourism continues to be a problem in major hubs, including Addis Ababa, Bahir Dar, Hawassa, and Bishoftu; reports identify mostly Ethiopian-born perpetrators, including members of the diaspora, with known links to local hotels, brokers, and taxi drivers.\n\nIn 2016, federal and regional justice officials investigated 1,392 potential trafficking cases and convicted 640 traffickers under the 2015 anti-trafficking law, a significant increase from 69 convictions in 2015.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Ethiopia as a 'Tier 2' country.\n"}
{"id": "8240601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8240601", "title": "Protofeminism", "text": "Protofeminism\n\nProtofeminism is a philosophical tradition that anticipates modern feminism in an era when the concept of feminism was still unknown, i. e. before the 20th century. Precise usage is disputed, as 18th-century feminism and 19th-century feminism are subsumed under \"feminism\". The usefulness of the term \"protofeminist\" has been rejected by some modern scholars, as has the term \"postfeminist\".\n\nPlato, according to Elaine Hoffman Baruch, \"[argued] for the total political and sexual equality of women, advocating that they be members of his highest class, ... those who rule and fight\". Book five of Plato's \"The Republic\" discusses the role of women:\nAre dogs divided into hes and shes, or do they both share equally in hunting and in keeping watch and in the other duties of dogs? Or do we entrust to the males the entire and exclusive care of the flocks, while we leave the females at home, under the idea that the bearing and suckling their puppies is labour enough for them?\n\"The Republic\" states that women in Plato's ideal state should work alongside men, receive equal education, and share equally in all aspects of the state. The sole exception involved women working in capacities which required less physical strength.\n\nWhile in the pre-modern period there was no formal feminist movement in Islamic nations, there were a number of important figures who argued for improving women's rights and autonomy. The medieval mystic and philosopher Ibn Arabi argued that while men were favored over women as prophets, women were just as capable of sainthood as men. \n\nIn the 12th century, the Sunni scholar Ibn Asakir wrote that women could study and earn \"ijazahs\" in order to transmit religious texts like the hadiths. This was especially the case for learned and scholarly families, who wanted to ensure the highest possible education for both their sons and daughters. But some men did not approve of this practice, such as Muhammad ibn al-Hajj (d. 1336), who was appalled by women speaking in loud voices and exposing their \"'awra\" in the presence of men while listening to the recitation of books.\n\nIn the 12th century, the Islamic philosopher and \"qadi\" (judge) Ibn Rushd wrote a commentary on Plato's \"Republic\" in which he examined Plato's views on equality between the sexes. He concluded that while men were stronger than women, it was still possible for women to perform the same duties as men. In his \"Bidayat al-mujtahid\" (The Distinguished Jurist's Primer), he added that these duties could include participation in warfare, and he expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that women in his society were typically limited to being mothers and wives. A number of women are said to have participated in or helped direct battles during the Muslim conquests and fitnas, including Nusaybah bint Ka'ab and Aisha.\n\nIn medieval Europe, the dominant view of women was that they were intellectually and morally weaker than men, tainted by Eve's original sin according to the biblical tradition. This was used as a justification for many restriction placed on women, such as not being allowed to own property or the obligation to obey their fathers or husbands at all times. But this view, along with the restrictions derived from it, raised objections already in medieval times. Protofeminists from the Middle Ages recognized as important participants in the development of feminism include Marie de France, Eleanor of Aquitaine, Bettisia Gozzadini, Nicola de la Haye, Christine de Pizan, Jadwiga of Poland, Laura Cereta, and La Malinche.\n\nThe Peasants’ Revolt of 1381 was a rebellion of the late Middle Ages against British serfdom, and many women played prominent roles in it. On June 14, 1381, Lord Chancellor and Archbishop of Canterbury Simon of Sudbury was dragged from the Tower of London and beheaded. The leader of the group was Johanna Ferrour, who ordered this violent action due to Sudbury's harsh poll taxes. Ferrour also ordered the beheading of the Lord High Treasurer, Sir Robert Hales, for his role in the poll tax. In addition to leading these rebels, Ferrour burned down the Savoy Palace and stole a duke’s chest of gold. The Chief Justice John Cavendish was beheaded by Katherine Gamen, another female leader.\n\nAccording to an Associate Professor of English at Bates College, Sylvia Federico, women often had the strongest desire to participate in revolts, especially this one in particular. These women did everything that the men did; they were just as violent, if not more, in their actions in order to rebel against the government. Johanna Ferrour was not the only female who was a leader within this revolt; there were quite a few more involved—one woman was indicted for encouraging an attack against a prison at Maidstone in Kent, while another female leader was responsible for the robbing of a multitude of mansions, which frightened servants so much that they did not feel safe enough to return afterwards. Although there were not many female leaders within this rebellion, there was a surprisingly large number of women who were a part of the crowd. For instance, there were seventy female rebels in Suffolk.\n\nThe women who were involved in this rebellion had valid reasons for desiring to participate, and in some instances, to take on the role of leader. The poll tax of 1380 was much tougher on married women, so it is not the least bit surprising that women were as violent as men, if not more so, in their involvement in the peasants' revolt. The various extreme acts of violence displayed by them exhibited their mounting hatred towards the government.\n\nAt the beginning of the renaissance, women's sole role and social value was held to be reproduction. This gender role defined a woman's main identity and purpose in life. Socrates, a well-known exemplar of the love of wisdom to the Renaissance humanists, said that he tolerated his first wife Xanthippe, because she bore him sons, in the same way one tolerated the noise of geese because they produce eggs and chicks. This analogy perpetuated the claim that a woman's sole role was reproduction.\n\nMarriage during the Renaissance defined a woman: she was whom she married. An unmarried woman was the property of her father, and once married, she became the property of her husband. She had few rights, except for privileges granted by her husband or father. Married women were required to obey their husbands and were expected to be chaste, obedient, pleasant, gentle, submissive, and, unless sweet-spoken, silent. In William Shakespeare's 1593 play, The Taming of the Shrew, Katherina is considered unmarriageable due to her headstrong and outspoken nature, in contrast to her mild-mannered sister Bianca. Katherina is seen as a wayward womana shrewwho needs to be tamed into submission. When Petruchio tames her, she readily goes to him when he summons her, almost like a dog. Her submissiveness is applauded, and the crowds at the party accept her as a proper woman since she is now \"conformable to other household Kates.\"\n\nUnder such circumstances, it is not surprising that most women were barely educated. In a letter to Lady Baptista Maletesta of Montefeltro in 1424, the humanist Leonardo Bruni wrote: \"While you live in these times when learning has so far decayed that it is regarded as positively miraculous to meet a learned man, let alone a woman.\" Bruni himself thought that women had no need of an education because they were not engaged in the social forums in which educated discourse is required. In the same letter he wrote,\nFor why should the subtleties of...a thousand...rhetorical conundra consume the powers of a woman, who never sees the forum? The contests of the forum, like those of warfare and battle, are the sphere of men. Hers is not the task of learning to speak for and against witnesses, for and against torture, for and against reputation... She will, in a word, leave the rough-and-tumble of the forum entirely to men.\" \nThe famous Renaissance salons that held intelligent debate and lectures were not welcoming to women. This denial of access to public forums led to problems for educated women, and contributed to the unlikelihood that a woman would obtain an education in the first place.\n\nStarting with the Malleus Maleficarum, Renaissance Europe saw the publication of numerous treatises on witches: their essence, their characteristics, ways to spot, prosecute and punish them. This helped to reinforce and perpetuate the view of women as morally corrupt sinners as well as keep in place the restrictions placed on them.\n\nHowever, not everyone agreed with this negative view of women and the restrictions placed on them. Simone de Beauvoir wrote that \"the first time we see a woman take up her pen in defense of her sex\" was when Christine de Pizan wrote \"Épître au Dieu d'Amour\" (Epistle to the God of Love) and \"The Book of the City of Ladies\", at the turn of the 15th century. An early male advocate of women's superiority was Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa wrote \"The Superior Excellence of Women Over Men\".\n\nCatherine of Aragon, the first official female ambassador in European history, commissioned a book by Juan Luis Vives arguing that women had a right to an education, and encouraged and popularized education for women in England during her time as Henry VIII's wife.\n\nVives and fellow Renaissance humanist Agricola argued that aristocratic women at least required education. Roger Ascham educated Queen Elizabeth I, who read Latin and Greek and wrote occasional poems, such as \"On Monsieur's Departure\", that are still anthologized. Elizabeth I was described as having talent without a woman's weakness, industry with a man's perseverance, and the body of a weak and feeble woman, but with the heart and stomach of a king. The only way she could be seen as a good ruler was for her to be described with manly qualities. Being a powerful and successful woman during the Renaissance, like Queen Elizabeth I meant in some ways being male, a perception that gravely limited women's potential as women.\n\nWhile women of the aristocracy had greater chances of receiving an education, it was not impossible for lower-class women to become literate. A woman named Margherita, living during the Renaissance, learned to read and write at the age of about 30, so there would be no mediator for the letters exchanged between her and her husband. Although Margherita did defy gender roles, she became literate not in order to become a more enlightened person, but because she wanted to be a better wife by gaining the ability to communicate with her husband directly. \n\nWomen who did receive an education often achieved high standards of learning and wrote in defence of women and their rights. One example is the 16th century Venetian author Modesta di Pozzo di Forzi, who wrote about the superiority of women.\n\nThe painter Sofonisba Anguissola (c. 1532-1625) was born into an enlightened family in Cremona. She and her sisters were educated to male standards, and four out of five sisters became professional painters. Sofonisba was the most successful of all, crowning her career as court painter to the Spanish king Philip II.\n\nThe Reformation was an important milestone for the development of women's rights and education. As the protestant faith was based on each believer's direct interaction with God, the ability to read the Bible and prayer books suddenly became a necessity for everybody, including women and girls. Therefore, protestant communities started to set up schools where ordinary boys and girls were taught basic literacy. Moreover, Protestantism no longer saw women as weak and evil sinners; rather, women were worthy companions of men and should be educated in order to become capable wives.\n\nMarie de Gournay (1565–1645), the last love of Michel de Montaigne, edited the third edition of Montaigne's \"Essays\" after his death. She also wrote two feminist essays, \"The Equality of Men and Women\" (1622) and \"The Ladies' Grievance\" (1626). In 1673, François Poullain de la Barre wrote \"De l'égalité des deux sexes\" (On the equality of the two sexes).\n\nThe 17th century saw the development of many nonconformist sects, such as the Quakers, which allowed more freedom of expression to women than the established religions. Noted feminist writers on religion and spirituality included Rachel Speght, Katherine Evans, Sarah Chevers, Margaret Fell (a founding member of the Quakers), and Sarah Blackborow This tendency continued in the prominence of some female ministers and writers such as Mary Mollineux and Barbara Blaugdone in the early decades of Quakerism. In general, though, women who preached or expressed opinions on religion were in danger of being suspected of lunacy or witchcraft, and many, like Anne Askew, who was burned at the stake for heresy, died \"for their implicit or explicit challenge to the patriarchal order\". In France and England, feminist ideas were attributes of heterodoxy, such as the Waldensians and Catharists, rather than orthodoxy. Religious egalitarianism, such as that embraced by the Levellers, carried over into gender equality, and therefore had political implications. Leveller women mounted large-scale public demonstrations and petitions for equal rights, although dismissed by the authorities of the day.\n\nThe 17th century also saw more women writers emerging, such as Anne Bradstreet, Bathsua Makin, Margaret Cavendish, Duchess of Newcastle, Lady Mary Wroth, the anonymous Eugenia, Mary Chudleigh, and Mary Astell, who depicted women's changing roles and made pleas for their education. However, they encountered considerable hostility, as exemplified by the experiences of Cavendish, and Wroth whose work was not published till the 20th century.\n\nSeventeenth-century France also saw the rise of salons, cultural gathering places of the upper-class intelligentsia, which were run by women and in which they participated as artists. But while women were granted salon membership, they stayed in the background, writing \"but not for [publication]\". Despite the limited role played by women in the salons, Jean-Jacques Rousseau thought them a \"threat to the 'natural' dominance of men\".\n\nMary Astell is frequently described as the first feminist writer. However, this depiction fails to recognise the intellectual debt she owed to Anna Maria van Schurman, Bathsua Makin and other women who preceded her. She was certainly one of the earliest feminist writers in English, whose analyses are as relevant today as in her own time, and moved beyond earlier writers by instituting educational institutions for women. Astell and Aphra Behn together laid the groundwork for feminist theory in the seventeenth century. No woman would speak out as strongly again for another century. In historical accounts, Astell is often overshadowed by her younger and more colourful friend and correspondent Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.\n\nThe liberalization of social values and secularization of the English Restoration provided new opportunities for women in the arts, an opportunity that women used to advance their cause. However, female playwrights encountered similar hostility. These included Catherine Trotter, Mary Manley and Mary Pix. The most influential of all was Aphra Behn, the first Englishwoman to achieve the status of a professional writer. She was a novelist, playwright, and political propagandist. Although successful during her lifetime, Behn was often vilified as \"unwomanly\" by 18th-century writers like Henry Fielding and Samuel Richardson. Likewise, the 19th-century critic Julia Kavanagh said that \"instead of raising man to woman's moral standards [Behn] sank to the level of man's courseness\". In the 20th century, Behn gained a wider readership and critical acceptance. Virginia Woolf praised her career and wrote, \"All women together ought to let flowers fall upon the grave of Aphra Behn...for it was she who earned them the right to speak their minds\".\n\nIn continental Europe, important feminist writers included Marguerite de Navarre, Marie de Gournay, and Anna Maria van Schurman, who mounted attacks on misogyny and promoted the education of women. In Switzerland, the first printed publication by a woman appeared in 1694: in \"Glaubens-Rechenschafft\", Hortensia von Moos argued against the precept that women should stay silent. The previous year, 1693, saw the publication of an anonymous tract entitled \"Rose der Freyheit\" (Rose of Freedom). In it, the author denounces male dominance and abuse of women.\n\nIn the New World, the Mexican nun, Juana Ines de la Cruz (1651–1695), advanced the education of women particularly in her essay \"Reply to Sor Philotea.\" By the end of the seventeenth century women's voices were becoming increasingly heard at least by educated women. The literature of the last decades of the century was sometimes referred to as the \"Battle of the Sexes\", and was often surprisingly polemic, such as Hannah Woolley's \"The Gentlewoman's Companion.\" However, women received mixed messages, for they also heard a strident backlash, and even self-deprecation by women writers in response. They were also subjected to conflicting social pressures, one of which was fewer opportunities for work outside the home, and education which sometimes reinforced the social order as much as inspired independent thinking.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813007", "title": "Public holidays in the Republic of the Congo", "text": "Public holidays in the Republic of the Congo\n\nThe following holidays are public holidays but the date on which each occurs varies, according to its corresponding calendar, and thus has no set date. In order in which they occur:\n\nNew Year's Day, Easter, Labor Day, Independence Day, All Saints' Day and Christmas Day are widely recognized and celebrated holidays. The other holidays listed are officially recognized by the government's Department of Labor (Direction Départementale du Travail) and are granted to government workers; the government requires that businesses operating in the country also recognize them, though employees, if even familiar with them, tend to prefer working as usual (with government-mandated overtime wages) on those days.\n\n"}
{"id": "8288509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8288509", "title": "Queens' Binder", "text": "Queens' Binder\n\nQueens' Binder (or Queen's Binder) is the name given to a small group of English bookbinders active during the Restoration period (1660–c.1700), often called the \"Golden Age of English Bookbinding\".\n\nThe name derives from the fact that similar bookbindings were found in the libraries of both Catherine of Braganza and Mary of Modena. The term was first coined by G. D. Hobson in his book \"Bindings in Cambridge Libraries\" and was a convenient term to refer to the characteristic drawer-handle tools and volutes with pointillé outlines rather than floral volutes much used by the other binders of the period.\n\nH. M. Nixon subdivided the bindings into three groups, Queens' Binder A, B, and C, due to the slight variations between them. Queens' Binder A is the most prolific of the three, but Queens' Binder B is considered the finer artisan. Although the bookbinders have not all been definitively identified, there is strong grounds for considering Samuel & Charles Mearne, Roger Bartlett, and William Nott as being at least partially responsible.\n"}
{"id": "23064846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23064846", "title": "Religion in Latvia", "text": "Religion in Latvia\n\nThe main religion traditionally practiced in Latvia is Christianity. , it is the largest religion (80%), though only about 7% of the population attends religious services regularly. Lutheranism is the main Christian denomination among ethnic Latvians due to strong historical links with the Nordic countries and Northern Germany (see Hanseatic League), while Catholicism is most prevalent in Eastern Latvia (Latgale), mostly due to Polish influence. The Latvian Orthodox Church is the third largest Christian church in Latvia, with adherents primarily among the Russian-speaking minority.\n\nIn a survey from 2015, the ISSP found that 62.6% of the Latvian population declared to belong to a Christian denomination, divided in 19.7% Russian Orthodox, 18.5% Roman Catholic, 17.8% Protestant, 6.1% Old Believers and 0.5% belonged to smaller christian denominations. A further 36.7% declared to have No Religion and 0.7% declared to belong to an other religion. In the same year the Eurobarometer survey by the European Commission found different results, with 76.7% of the Latvians regarding themselves as Christians, divided in 26.2% Catholics 24.0% Eastern Orthodox, 16.6% Protestants, and 9.9% other Christians. The unaffiliated people made up the 22.0% of the respondents and were divided in Atheists with 4.7% and Agnostics with 17.3%.\n\nLatvia was one of the last regions in Europe to be Christianized. The inhabitants of the region that is now Latvia once practiced Finnic paganism and Baltic mythology, but this practice gradually diminished through the course of the centuries. In the 12th to 13th centuries Latvia first fell under the influence of the Catholic Church, as the Christian kings of Denmark, Sweden and the North German Livonian and Teutonic military orders fought for influence in the region in what later became known as the Northern Crusades.\n\nParts of Eastern Latvia (notably the Koknese and Jersika principalities) shortly came under the influence of the Viking rulers of the Rurik dynasty, who had adopted Orthodox Christianity as early as the 12th century. After succumbing to the Livonian Order in the 13th century, the influence of the Orthodox Church faded away until the 19th century.\n\nDespite the Christianization, the local populace in the countryside maintained their pagan belief system for several centuries, with pockets of paganism surviving in Latvia up until the 17th century. Along with the rest of the traditional holidays, Christmas (Ziemassvētki) and Easter (Lieldienas) in Latvia still largely retain their pagan roots.\n\nDuring the Protestant Reformation the teachings of Lutheranism from northern Germany and Scandinavia completely changed the religious landscape in the country, and eventually only Latgale remained Catholic due to the influence of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Before World War II, 2/3 of Latvia was Protestant; overwhelmingly Lutheran with scarce Calvinist population and individual cases of adhering to other Protestant confessions.\n\nBecause of the state policy of atheism during the Soviet era and the general European trend of secularization, religiosity declined drastically, and today a growing percentage of Latvians claims not to follow any religion, with low church attendance.\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia has 708,773 members. The Catholic Church in Latvia has 430,000 members. Historically, the west and central parts of the country have been predominantly Protestant, while the east – particularly the Latgale region – has been predominantly Catholic, although Catholics are now common in Riga and other cities due to migration from Latgale. Historically, Lutherans were the majority, but Communist rule weakened Lutheranism much more than Catholicism, with the result that there are now only slightly more Lutherans than Catholics. The Latvian Orthodox Church is semi-autonomous and has 370,000 members. Orthodoxy predominates among the Latvian Russian population.\n\n, the population of Jews in Latvia was 416; and there were several hundred Muslims in Latvia. A modern neopagan movement is Dievturība.\n\nThe Reformed Church in Latvia is a small Reformed denomination with two congregations in Riga.\n\nAs of 2011, the Justice Ministry had registered 1145 congregations. This total included: Lutheran (294), Catholic (250), Orthodox (122), Baptist (94), Old Believer Orthodox (69), Pentecostal (52), Seventh-day Adventist (51), Evangelical (39), New Generation (18), Muslim (17), Jehovah's Witnesses (15), Jewish (13), Methodist (12), New Apostolic (11), Hare Krishna (11), Dievturi (10), Buddhist (4), Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) (4), and 18 other congregations. In 2003, the Government also registered the Christian Scientists as a recognized religious congregation.\n\nIn 2011, churches in Latvia provided the following estimates of church membership to the Justice Ministry:\nHinduism is a minority religion in Latvia. As of 2011, there were 190 Hindus in Latvia. As of 2011, the Justice Ministry had registered 11 Hare Krishna and two other Hindu congregations in Latvia.\n\nBrahma Kumaris have three centres in Latvia: in Riga, Daugavpils, and Rēzekne.\nNath traditions also exist in Latvia. Gorakhnath mandir was established in 2011. Masters of Nath tradition go there to hold public satsangs and educational programmes. The Hindu festivals (Shivaratri, Navaratri, etc) are celebrated in the mandir as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "56226039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56226039", "title": "Robin Engel", "text": "Robin Engel\n\nRobin Shepard Engel is an American criminologist and professor in the College of Education Criminal Justice and Human Services at the University of Cincinnati (UC). She is also UC's Vice President for Safety & Reform and the director of the IACP/UC Center for Police Research and Policy, a collaboration between UC and the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP). She is also the former director of UC's Institute of Crime Science. She became UC's first Vice President for Safety & Reform in 2015, when the university created the position in response to the shooting of Samuel DuBose by a UC police officer. UC President Santa Ono said that Engel's \"hands-on\" approach that she has used to research policing, sometimes involving walking with police officers on their beats, would help her improve the campus's police department. \n\n"}
{"id": "39494298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39494298", "title": "Royal Dutch Touring Club", "text": "Royal Dutch Touring Club\n\nThe Royal Dutch Touring Club (Dutch, Algemene Nederlandse Wielrijdersbond or ANWB) is a travelers' association in the Netherlands, supporting all modes of travel. It's responsible for traffic signs and signage on roads and trails. It also offers test reports, travel services and roadside assistance, comparable to the German ADFC / ADAC.\n\nANWB has over four million members, and is the largest nonprofit association in the Netherlands.\n\nANWB was formed July 1, 1883 as \"Nederlandsche Vélocipèdisten-Bond\" (Dutch bicyclists' club) and renamed two years later. In 1905 the name \"Koninklijke Nederlandse Toeristenbond\" (Royal Dutch Tourist Club) was adopted. \n\nIn the 20th century, the association expanded to include motorists, hikers, equestrians, motorcyclists, as well as participants in water sports, winter sports and camping.\n\n"}
{"id": "351914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351914", "title": "Self-assembly", "text": "Self-assembly\n\nSelf-assembly is a process in which a disordered system of pre-existing components forms an organized structure or pattern as a consequence of specific, local interactions among the components themselves, without external direction. When the constitutive components are molecules, the process is termed molecular self-assembly.\n\nSelf-assembly can be classified as either static or dynamic. In \"static\" self-assembly, the ordered state forms as a system approaches equilibrium, reducing its free energy. However, in \"dynamic\" self-assembly, patterns of pre-existing components organized by specific local interactions are not commonly described as \"self-assembled\" by scientists in the associated disciplines. These structures are better described as \"self-organized\", although these terms are often used interchangeably.\n\nSelf-assembly (SA) in the classic sense can be defined as \"the spontaneous and reversible organization of molecular units into ordered structures by non-covalent interactions\". The first property of a self-assembled system that this definition suggests is the spontaneity of the self-assembly process: the interactions responsible for the formation of the self-assembled system act on a strictly local level—in other words, \"the nanostructure builds itself\".\n\nSelf-assembled nano-structure is an object that appears as a result of ordering and aggregation of individual nano-scale objects guided by some physical principle.\n\nSelf-assembled nanostructure arises in the strong non-equilibrium conditions. The most famous example of self-assembly phenomenon is the occurrence of the life on Earth. It is plausible to hypothesize that it happens because the sun generates a strong temperate gradient in its environment. This general idea has been confirmed in the experiment of self-assembly of carbon nanotubes.\n\nAnother interesting example of self-assembly is the phenomenon of electrostatic trapping. In this case an electric field is applied between two metallic nano-electrodes. The particles present in the environment are polarized by the applied electric field. Due to dipole interaction with the electric field gradient the particles are attracted to the gap between the electrodes.\n\nFabricating a crystal by placing atom after atom is not realistic. However self-assembly of crystals works well. Similarly fabricating a 3D nano-structure is not realistic as well. Self-assembly of 3D nano-structure becomes an easy and inexpensive way to fabricate them.\n\nNano-structures such as nano-vacuum gaps are used for storing energy and nuclear energy conversion. Self-assembled tunable materials are promising candidates for large surface area electrodes in batteries and organic photovoltaic cells, as well as for microfluidic sensors and filters.\n\nAt this point, one may argue that any chemical reaction driving atoms and molecules to assemble into larger structures, such as precipitation, could fall into the category of SA. However, there are at least three distinctive features that make SA a distinct concept.\n\nFirst, the self-assembled structure must have a higher order than the isolated components, be it a shape or a particular task that the self-assembled entity may perform. This is generally not true in chemical reactions, where an ordered state may proceed towards a disordered state depending on thermodynamic parameters.\n\nThe second important aspect of SA is the key role of slack interactions (e.g. Van der Waals, capillary, formula_1, hydrogen bonds) with respect to more \"traditional\" covalent, ionic, or metallic bonds. Although typically less energetic by a factor of 10, these weak interactions play an important role in materials synthesis. It can be instructive to note how slack interactions hold a prominent place in materials, especially in biological systems, although they are often considered marginal with respect to \"strong\" (i.e. covalent, etc.) interactions. For instance, they determine the physical properties of liquids, the solubility of solids, and the organization of molecules in biological membranes.\n\nThe third distinctive feature of SA is that the building blocks are not only atoms and molecules, but span a wide range of nano- and mesoscopic structures, with different chemical compositions, shapes and functionalities. Research into possible three-dimensional shapes of self-assembling micrites examines Platonic solids (regular polyhedral). The term ‘micrite’ was created by DARPA to refer to sub-millimeter sized microrobots, whose self-organizing abilities may be compared with those of slime mold. Recent examples of novel building blocks include polyhedra and patchy particles. Examples also included microparticles with complex geometries, such as hemispherical, dimer, discs, rods, molecules\n, as well as multimers. These nanoscale building blocks (NBBs) can in turn be synthesised through conventional chemical routes or by other SA strategies such as Directional Entropic Forces.\n\nImportant examples of SA in materials science include the formation of molecular crystals, colloids, lipid bilayers, phase-separated polymers, and self-assembled monolayers. The folding of polypeptide chains into proteins and the folding of nucleic acids into their functional forms are examples of self-assembled biological structures. Recently, the three-dimensional macroporous structure was prepared via self-assembly of diphenylalanine derivative under cryoconditions, the obtained material can find the application in the field of regenerative medicine or drug delivery system. P. Chen et al. demonstrated a microscale self-assembly method using the air-liquid interface established by Faraday wave as a template. This self-assembly method can be used for generation of diverse sets of symmetrical and periodic patterns from microscale materials such as hydrogels, cells, and cell spheroids.\n\nSA extends the scope of chemistry aiming at synthesising products with order and functionality properties, extending chemical bonds to weak interactions and encompassing the self-assembly of NBBs on all length scales. In covalent synthesis and polymerisation, the scientist links atoms together in any desired conformation, which does not necessarily have to be the energetically most favoured position; self-assembling molecules, on the other hand, adopt a structure at the thermodynamic minimum, finding the best combination of interactions between subunits but not forming covalent bonds between them. In self-assembling structures, the scientist must predict this minimum, not merely place the atoms in the location desired.\n\nAnother characteristic common to nearly all self-assembled systems is their thermodynamic stability. For SA to take place without intervention of external forces, the process must lead to a lower Gibbs free energy, thus self-assembled structures are thermodynamically more stable than the single, unassembled components. A direct consequence is the general tendency of self-assembled structures to be relatively free of defects. An example is the formation of two-dimensional superlattices composed of an orderly arrangement of micrometre-sized polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) spheres, starting from a solution containing the microspheres, in which the solvent is allowed to evaporate slowly in suitable conditions. In this case, the driving force is capillary interaction, which originates from the deformation of the surface of a liquid caused by the presence of floating or submerged particles.\n\nThese two properties—weak interactions and thermodynamic stability—can be recalled to rationalise another property often found in self-assembled systems: the \"sensitivity to perturbations\" exerted by the external environment. These are small fluctuations that alter thermodynamic variables that might lead to marked changes in the structure and even compromise it, either during or after SA. The weak nature of interactions is responsible for the flexibility of the architecture and allows for rearrangements of the structure in the direction determined by thermodynamics. If fluctuations bring the thermodynamic variables back to the starting condition, the structure is likely to go back to its initial configuration. This leads us to identify one more property of SA, which is generally not observed in materials synthesised by other techniques: \"reversibility\".\n\nSA is a process which is easily influenced by external parameters. This can make synthesis more problematic due to the many free parameters that require control. On the other hand, self assembly has the exciting advantage that a large variety of shapes and functions on many length scales can be obtained.\n\nGenerally speaking, the fundamental condition needed for NBBs to self-assemble into an ordered structure is the simultaneous presence of long-range repulsive and short-range attractive forces.\n\nBy choosing precursors with suitable physicochemical properties, it is possible to exert a fine control on the formation processes that produce complex structures. Clearly, the most important tool when it comes to designing a synthesis strategy for a material, is the knowledge of the chemistry of the building units. For example, it was demonstrated that it was possible to use diblock copolymers with different block reactivities in order to selectively embed maghemite nanoparticles and generate periodic materials with potential use as waveguides.\n\nIn 2008, \"Advances in Colloid and Interface Science\" published a study in which it was concluded that every self-assembly process in reality presents a co-assembly, which makes the former term a misnomer of a kind. The thesis is built on the concept of mutual ordering of the self-assembling system and its environment.\n\nSelf-assembly processes can be observed in systems of macroscopic building blocks. These building blocks can be externally propelled or self-propelled. Since the 1950s, scientists have built self-assembly systems exhibiting centimeter-sized components ranging from passive mechanical parts to mobile robots. For systems at this scale, the component design can be precisely controlled. For some systems, the components' interaction preferences are programmable. The self-assembly processes can be easily monitored and analyzed by the components themselves or by external observers.\n\nIn April 2014, Skylar Tibbits of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, demonstrated a combination of 3D printed plastic with a \"smart material\" that self-assembles in water.\nTibbits refers to this as \"4D printing\".\n\nPeople regularly use the terms \"self-organization\" and \"self-assembly\" interchangeably. As complex system science becomes more popular though, there is a higher need to clearly distinguish the differences between the two mechanisms to understand their significance in physical and biological systems. Both processes explain how collective order develops from \"dynamic small-scale interactions\", according to an article in a November/December 2008 issue of the journal \"Complexity\". Self-organization is a non-equilibrium process where self-assembly is a spontaneous process that leads toward equilibrium. Self-assembly requires components to remain essentially unchanged throughout the process. Besides the thermodynamic difference between the two, there is also a difference in formation. The first difference is what \"encodes the global order of the whole\" in self-assembly whereas in self-organization these initial encodings are not necessary. Another slight contrast refers to the minimum number of units needed to make an order. Self-organization appears to have a minimum number of units whereas self-assembly does not. The concepts may have particular application in connection with natural selection.\nEventually, these patterns may form one theory of pattern formation in nature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33345434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33345434", "title": "Shakil Afridi", "text": "Shakil Afridi\n\nShakil Afridi (), or Shakeel Afridi, is a Pakistani physician who helped the CIA run a fake hepatitis vaccine program in Abbottabad, Pakistan, to confirm Osama bin Laden's presence in the city by obtaining DNA samples. Details of his activities emerged during the Pakistani investigation of the deadly raid on bin Laden's residence.\nThis account is disputed in a recent account of events which implies Afridi was implicated as a cover for the real CIA operative.\nAfridi was arrested at the Torkham border crossing while trying to flee the country days after the raid. On 23 May 2012, he was sentenced to 33 years' imprisonment for treason, initially believed to be in connection with the bin Laden raid, but later revealed to be due to alleged ties with a local Islamist warlord Mangal Bagh. Lawyers appealed against the verdict on 1 June 2012. On 29 August 2013, his sentence was overturned and a retrial ordered.\nIn mid-November 2013, he was charged with murder in regard to the death of a patient he had treated eight years previously.\n\nAfridi comes from a humble background and in 1990 graduated from the Khyber Medical College, Peshawar. He had been working as the doctor in-charge of Khyber Agency of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of Pakistan. The doctor has a family. Considered an American hero by many who believe his actions were altruistic, Afridi is currently serving a 33-year sentence in a Pakistani jail, convicted of charges unrelated to his alleged CIA connections. Sentenced for supporting a Pakistani warlord, many of Afridi's supporters appear to have abandoned him at home and abroad, including his alleged U.S. supporters within the CIA and the Obama Administration. He is a native of Khyber Agency. In July 2011, Afridi was described as being in his late 40s. There are numerous online petitions and web pages dedicated to freeing him, such as the \"Free Dr. Shakil Afridi NOW\" Facebook page with over 400 likes.\n\nAfridi was the chief surgeon at Jamrud Hospital in Pakistan's northwestern Khyber tribal region. His colleagues were suspicious of Afridi's absences, which he explained as \"business\" to attend to in Abbottabad. Afridi was accused of having taken a half-dozen World Health Organization cooler boxes without authorisation. The containers are for inoculation campaigns, but no immunisation drives were underway in Abbottabad or the Khyber Agency.\n\nOn 6 October 2011, the Pakistani commission investigating bin Laden's death recommended that he be charged with \"conspiracy against the state of Pakistan and high treason\" on the basis of available evidence. Pakistan seized Afridi's assets. Afridi's residence was sealed by Pakistani authorities and his family moved to an undisclosed location. The fifteen male and female health workers who assisted Afridi in the fake hepatitis vaccination program were also declared not fit for any future employment.\n\nPakistani investigators said in a July 2012 report that Afridi met 25 times with \"foreign secret agents, received instructions and provided sensitive information to them.\" According to Pakistani reports, Afridi told investigators that the charity Save the Children helped facilitate his meeting with U.S. intelligence agents although the charity denies the charge. The report alleges that Save the Children's Pakistan director introduced Afridi to a western woman in Islamabad and that Afridi and the woman met regularly afterwards.\n\nIn an interview with Fox News, Afridi described being routinely tortured by the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) with cigarette burns and electric shocks while at ISI Headquarters at Abpara. Citing \"very strict security,\" Afridi's lawyer told BBC News that he had doubts of the authenticity of the interview. Di-Natale was blacklisted by Pakistan barring him from returning to the country and Fox News reporter/producer Sib Kaifee was grilled by the country's top intelligence agency and was forced to flee the country fearing reprisal.\n\nFamily members and a member of his legal counsel also stated Afridi had been tortured while in Pakistani custody during November 2012. Waad ur Rahman, an \"Express Tribune\" blogger argues that through a fair trial, Afridi would also have a chance to defend why he did not disclose the location of bin Laden to Pakistani authorities. He said, only denial of fair trial, makes him an absolute victim of law.\n\nOn 28 May 2012, Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani said according to the law in Pakistan Afridi has the right to defend himself and should be granted access to higher courts.\n\nOn 30 May 2012, Afridi was sentenced to 33 years in prison for aiding banned militant group Lashkar-e-Islam and not for his links to the CIA, as officials had said earlier, according to a court document.\n\nThe court sentenced Afridi under the Frontier Crimes Regulation, 1901 a colonial era law. According to the verdict, Afridi would serve 33 years in prison and has to pay Rs. 230,000 as a fine. He was initially detained at the Apbara headquarters of the ISI in Islamabad before being moved to a Peshawar Central Jail in May 2012.\n\nOn 1 June 2012, Afridi's lawyers appealed his conviction.\n\nOn 29 August 2013, senior Pakistani judicial official Sahibzada Mohammad Anis issued a ruling that overturned Afridi's sentence and ordered him a retrial. This was due to the decision that the original person who sentenced the doctor was not authorised to hear the case.\n\nIn mid-November 2013, the Reuters news agency reported that he had just been charged with murder in regard to the death, eight years earlier, of a patient he had treated. In March 2015, Samiullah Khan Afridi, Afridi's former lawyer, was shot dead in Peshawar. A Pakistani Taliban faction named Jamaatul Ahrar claimed responsibility for his murder.\n\nIn May 2018, Afridi was moved from prison to a 'safer location' by Pakistani intelligence officials.\n\nIn late November 2012 Pakistani news provider, \"The Express Tribune\", reported that Afridi had gone on a hunger strike protesting his prison conditions in the Peshawar jail. News also reported that regarding his treatment the U.S. State Department had \"made their views well known to Pakistan and the public at large\". In September 2012, Dominic Di-Natale, an Islamabad-based correspondent and Sib Kaifee, a producer/reporter for Fox News claimed that they had interviewed Afridi by phone from inside the jail and spoke to him thrice between five and 45 minutes. Two prison guards were arrested and a senior prison official was sacked for allegedly providing Afridi with cell phones.\n\nHe is isolated from the general population.\n\nThe U.S. Secretary of Defense, who was then CIA Chief Leon Panetta, has confirmed the role of Afridi in ascertaining the whereabouts of bin Laden inside the compound in Abbottabad. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has said that Pakistan has no justification for holding Afridi. The U.S. Representative for the 48th District of California, Dana Rohrabacher asked President Barack Obama to intercede on Afridi's behalf, introduced two bills, H.R. 4069 to award a Congressional Gold Medal to Afridi and H.R. 3901 to declare Afridi a naturalised U.S. citizen.\n\nThe U.S. Senate panel cut $33 million in aid to Pakistan over the conviction of Afridi: $1 million for each of the 33 years of Afridi's sentence.\n\nU.S. authorities said that before his arrest, Afridi turned down an opportunity to leave his country and resettle overseas with his family. On 31 May 2012, U.S. authorities said that they sought clarification from Pakistan on the issue of Afridi's sentence.\n\nIn September 2012, the U.S. State Department said that they would consider a prisoner exchange for Aafia Siddiqui but Pakistan refused the deal.\n\nIn May 2015 Seymour Hersh identified Afridi has been scapegoated by the CIA and the U.S. State Department of the U.S. Government.\n\nIn June 2011, it was reported in \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\" and all over the Pakistani press that Amir Aziz had been held for questioning in Pakistan; he was, it was said, a CIA informant who had been spying on the comings and goings at the bin Laden compound. Aziz was released, but the retired official said that U.S. intelligence was unable to learn who leaked the highly classified information about his involvement with the mission. Officials in Washington decided they \"could not take a chance that Aziz's role in obtaining bin Laden's DNA also would become known\". A sacrificial lamb was needed, and the one chosen was Afridi, a 48-year-old Pakistani doctor and sometime CIA asset, who had been arrested by the Pakistanis in late May and accused of assisting the agency. \"We went to the Pakistanis and said go after Afridi\", the retired official said. \"We had to cover the whole issue of how we got the DNA.\" It was soon reported that the CIA had organised a fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad with Afridi's help in a failed attempt to obtain bin Laden's DNA. Afridi's legitimate medical operation was run independently of local health authorities, was well financed and offered free vaccinations against hepatitis B. Posters advertising the programme were displayed throughout the area. Afridi was later accused of treason and sentenced to 33 years in prison because of his ties to an extremist. News of the CIA-sponsored programme created widespread anger in Pakistan, and led to the cancellation of other international vaccination programmes that were now seen as cover for American spying.\n\nThe retired official said that Afridi had been recruited long before the bin Laden mission as part of a separate intelligence effort to get information about suspected terrorists in Abbottabad and the surrounding area. \"The plan was to use vaccinations as a way to get the blood of terrorism suspects in the villages.\" Afridi made no attempt to obtain DNA from the residents of the bin Laden compound. The report that he did so was a hurriedly put together \"CIA cover story creating 'facts'\" in a clumsy attempt to protect Aziz and his real mission. \"Now we have the consequences\", the retired official said. \"A great humanitarian project to do something meaningful for the peasants has been compromised as a cynical hoax.\" Afridi's conviction was overturned, but he remains in prison on a murder charge.\n\nJames Curran, dean of the Rollins School of Public Health at Emory University, stated that spy agencies should consider the consequences of using health care institutions for their own ends: \"It is always important to disassociate public health missions from wartime or spy missions that could disrupt the bonds of community trust\".\n\nHumanitarian organisations, including Médecins Sans Frontières, protested the use of a medical charity for espionage purposes believing it would cause suspicion of such organisations in the future and endanger personnel working on such projects claiming 'threatened immunisation work around the world'.\n\nMay 2012 the \"Access to Justice Through Legal Aid and Welfare Organisation Peshawar\" named a panel of lawyers to defend Dr Afridi in his appeal against his conviction.\n\nOn 31 May 2012, Lashkar-e-Islam militants said they had nothing to do with Afridi and would kill him if given the chance. A commander in the militant organisation told the AFP, \"We have no link to such a shameless man. If we see him, we'll chew him alive.\"\n\nThe court said Afridi paid two million rupees (US$21,000) to Lashkar-e-Islam and helped to provide medical assistance to militant commanders in Khyber. But the commander said the $21,000 was a fine imposed for over-charging patients. \"Afridi and his fellow doctor were fleecing tribesmen, giving them fake medicines and doing fake surgeries. We had a lot of complaints against them and imposed a fine of two million rupees on them,\" he said. Local residents have also told AFP that Mangal Bagh fined Afridi for performing \"unnecessary surgeries and over-charging\" patients at his private clinic in the town of Bara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54639267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54639267", "title": "Simone Tanner Chaumet", "text": "Simone Tanner Chaumet\n\nSimone Tanner Chaumet (1916 - 25 May 1962) was a French peace activist and was a volunteer for SCI (Service Civil International) between 1943 and 1945 in France and between 1951 and 1956 in Algeria. She was honoured as \"Righteous Among the Nations\" by the State of Israel in 2011 for her actions to save Jewish children during the Second World War.\n\nChaumet was born during the 1914-1918 war, but her exact birth date and place are not known. She never knew her father. This situation affected her susceptibility in her youth years. Her mother got married again. Her step-father who was a lovely man took his wife and two daughters to Cannes to live there. The relationship between Chaumet and her step-father was intense. In 1942, she joined the CLAJ (Club loisirs action jeunesse) with her friend Jamy Bissérier and in 1943 she became the secretary of CLAJ which was associated with \"Amitiés Chrétienne\" in Col du Fanget in the French Alps. While she was working there, she saved the life of Jewish children (François Gelbert, Maurice and Charles Wrobel, Gilbert and Maxime Allouche) during the Second World War in France.\n\nSCI was very important for Chaumet and her life. She paid attention to SCI's calls and she decided to be a volunteer on behalf of SCI. She was very active in France between 1945 and 1950 for this group and she continued to be a long-term volunteer in Algeria between 1951 and 1956. She married with the SCI secretary Emile Tanner. Chaumet who explored the useful aspects of education when she was a volunteer for SCI, set up a school in Bouzareah. She wanted to help the people who didn't know how to read and write and the children who needed education.\n\nShe was murdered on 25 May 1962 in the struggle of the Algerian Independence war. A commemorative plaque was installed on the Col du Fanget on 7 May 2005. The children; François Gelbert, Gilbert and Maxime Allouche that Chaumet saved their lives, attended the commemoration to honour her. Also, she was commemorated in Israel as she saved the lives of Jewish children during WWII in France. Finally, she was honoured on 24 October 2011 as Righteous among the Nations in the \"Salle des Fêtes de la Mairie du 6e arrondissment\", 78 rue Bonaparte, in Paris. Tanner-Chaumet is listed on plate 10 of the Algerian Ministry of Foreign Affairs \"Wall of the Missing\" of people lost during wars in Algeria.\n"}
{"id": "3361898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3361898", "title": "Taheyya Kariokka", "text": "Taheyya Kariokka\n\nTaheyya Kariokka () also Tahiya Mohamed (born as: Badaweya Mohamed Kareem Al Nirani), (February 22, 1915 – September 20, 1999) was an Egyptian belly dancer and film actress.\n\nBorn in the Egyptian town of Ismaïlia to Ali Mohamed Elnidany and Fatima alzahraa. Her father was a boat merchant who had married 6 times. It is said Badawiya's father was over 60 years old while her mother was in her early twenties. Badawiya was barely able to speak when her father died. After the death of her father Badaweya was sent to live with her older brother Ahmed Elnidany. While there she was tortured, treated like a slave and locked in chains. Every time she tried to escape he would find her and torture her even more, till one day he shaved her hair.\n\nWith the help of her nephew Osman Elnidany she escaped. she moved to Cairo to stay with Suad Mahasen, a night club owner and an artist. Tahiya had asked several times for employment in Suad's nightclub but Suad refused to employ her due to the disreputability of working at a night club. However, many of Suad's associates and friends became acquainted with Tahiya through various visits to Suad's home. They all advised Suad to add her to one of the shows as a chorus girl but still she refused. Soon, Tahiya was mentioned to Badia Masabni, the owner of Casino Opera, one of the most prominent nightclubs of the time. Badia offered a position in her troupe to Tahiya. Tahiya accepted and was given the stage name Tahiya Mohamed. She soon began gaining popularity as a solo dancer and as she became more experienced she learned a popular Samba dance from Brazil at the time called the Karioka. After that she became known as Tahiya Karioca. Tahiya began starring in movies during what is dubbed as the Egyptian film industry's \"Golden Age\". She was a talented dancer, singer, and actress. In 1972, the film “Watch out for Zouzou”, starring Soad Hosni with Tahiya performing the supporting role, was released to become the biggest box-office hit in Egyptian cinema to date.\n\nTahiya was married 14 times; among her husbands were actor Rushdy Abaza and playwright Fayez Halawa. Tahiya was unable to conceive any children of her own and hence adopted a daughter (Atiyat Allah). Tahiya also was very involved with her sibling's children. Tahiya later moved to London.\n\nTahyia died of a heart attack on September 20, 1999, aged 84.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27238215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27238215", "title": "Tangent (club)", "text": "Tangent (club)\n\nTangent is a social networking organisation for ladies aged over 45, primarily intended for former members of Ladies Circle. It is part of the Round Table Family of clubs, together with Round Table (club), Ladies Circle and 41 Club.\n\nLadies who are either (a) the wife or partner of a former member of Round Table or (b) a former member of Ladies Circle are eligible to join Tangent. (From 2009 some Tangent clubs have open membership and accept women who were not previously members of Ladies Circle).\n\nRound Table itself was formed in 1927, a social networking and community group exclusively for men aged under 40. Within three years, their wives had formed their own group, Ladies Circle. Like Round Table, Ladies Circle was specifically intended for younger ladies, and so was only open to under 40s. In 1953, former members of Bournemouth Ladies Circle formed their own group, Tangent.\n\nIn the 1990s, Ladies Circle opened up membership to non wives/female partners of Tablers/ ex Tablers\n\nLike the three other clubs in the movement, there are various Tangent clubs in towns and cities across the UK, and overseas.\n\nRecently, some Tangent clubs have opened their doors to non ex Circlers.\n\nTangent clubs are affiliated to the National Association of Tangent Clubs (NATC). The members of each club will usually meet monthly, and organise various social events, and also activities to raise funds for charity or to support the community. Clubs will often hold Friendship or Fellowship evenings and invite other clubs in the neighbourhood to attend. Members of different clubs also have the opportunity to meet at a number of Regional Lunches held throughout the year.\n\nA National AGM is held in April each year at a different venue. The members of the National Executive are elected at this meeting, and various proposals will be debated and voted on.\n\nThe Club motto is \"Let Friendship Continue\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33968709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33968709", "title": "Tetela people", "text": "Tetela people\n\nThe Tetela people (or Batetela in the plural) are an ethnic group of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, most of whom speak the Tetela language.\n\nThe Batetela live in the region between Lusambo and the Upper Congo River, in the provinces of Sankuru and Maniema. They live by fishing and farming, raising cassava, banana and kola nuts. They are related to the Kusu people, only separating from them in the late 1800s after the arrival of Arabs and Belgians in the region. Both the Batetela and the Kusu are subgroups of the larger Mongo group. The name Motetela comes from a god named Motetela, meaning either \"he who laughs not\" or \"he at whom one may not laugh.\"\n\nAccording to Emil Torday (who studied the tribes of the Congo between 1908 and 1909), the Batetela originated on the right bank of the Lomami River and migrated to their present territory at some unknown date. In 1869–70, some Tetela groups came into contact with Tippu Tip, an Arab slave trader from Zanzibar. Following this, the chieftain Gongo Lutete began working with Tip and the Arabs to lead the Batetela in slave raids against the Luba people in Kasai. In the Congo Arab war of 1892–1894, the Batetela fought for the Arabs, but later defected to the Belgians. Gongo Lutete was executed by the Belgians in 1893, however, and this caused the Batetela to revolt in 1895 in the first of the Batetela Rebellions. Successive uprisings followed, lasting until 1908.\n\nDuring the period immediately following independence, Patrice Lumumba, a Tetela, was a prominent politician and the first Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo before his assassination in 1961. In 1975, many Batetela were purged from the military.\n\n\"Three types of drum are used by the Batetela, a Bantu tribe situated between the Lomami River and the Sankuru River in the Kasai Province of central Belgian Congo. The ngomo skin drum is used for dancing, usually accompanying the lukumbi, the six-toned slit drum. The ekuli, a small cylindrical two-toned drum, formerly used to signal victory in battle, is now used to call people to church and classes. The lukumbi is the most interesting and intricate of the three, and constitutes a highly developed poetic and musical art form as well as a means of communication\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41686482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41686482", "title": "Timeline of women's sports in the United States", "text": "Timeline of women's sports in the United States\n\nThis is a timeline of women's sports in the United States.\n\n1780 - Three days of horse racing at the track in Hempstead Plains, Long Island, included an event for women riders.\n\n1864 - The Park Place Croquet Club of Brooklyn organized with 25 members. Croquet is probably the first game played by both women and men in America.\n\n1866 - Vassar College fielded the first two women's amateur baseball teams.\n\n1874 - Mary Ewing Outerbridge of Staten Island introduced tennis to the United States. She purchased tennis equipment in Bermuda (and had trouble getting it through Customs) and used it to set up the first US tennis court at the Staten Island Cricket and Baseball Club that spring.\n\n1875 - The \"Blondes\" and \"Brunettes\" played their first match in Springfield, Illinois on Sept. 11. Newspapers heralded the event as the \"first game of baseball ever played in public for gate money between feminine ball-tossers.\" \n\n1875 - Wellesley College opened with a gymnasium for exercising and a lake for ice skating and the first rowing program for women.\n\n1876 - Nell Saunders defeated Rose Harland in the first United States women's boxing match, receiving a silver butter dish as her prize.\n\n1882 - At the YWCA in Boston, the first athletic games for women were held.\n\n1887 - Ellen Hansell was crowned the first Women's Singles tennis champion at the U.S. Open.\n\n1889 - Bertha Townsend and Margarette Ballard, both of the United States, won the first Women's Doubles at the U.S. Open.\n\n1889 - The first women's six-day bicycle race ended at Madison Square Garden in New York City.\n\n1894 - The first ladies golf tournament was held on the 7-hole Morristown, NJ course on Oct 17 – 1894. Miss Hollard A. Ford won with a 97 scored on the double-7, 14 strokes under her nearest rival.\n\n1895 - The first Women's Amateur Golf championship was contested among 13 golfers at the Meadow Brook Club, Hempstead, N.Y., on Nov. 9. The match was won by Mrs. Charles S. Brown with a 132 and the runner-up is Nellie Sargent.\n\n1895 - The first organized athletics meeting was generally recognized as the \"Field Day\" at Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY, on Nov. 9. A group of \"nimble, supple and vivacious girls\" engaged in running and jumping events despite bad weather.\n\n1895 - The first women's softball team was formed at Chicago's West Division High School. They did not have a coach for competitive play until 1899.\n\n1896 - The first 6-day bicycle race for women started on Jan 6 at Madison Square Garden in NYC.\n\n1896 - The first women's intercollegiate basketball championship was played between Stanford and the University of California at Berkeley. Stanford won 2-1 on April 4 before a crowd of 700 women.\n\n1898 - Lizzie Arlington became the first woman to sign a professional baseball contract, appearing in her first professional game pitching for the Philadelphia Reserves.\n\n1900 - The Olympics first allowed women. Margaret Abbott won a gold medal in golf; she was the first American woman to take first place in an Olympic event.\n\n1901- Constance M.K, at Harvard University, introduced field hockey to the women of the United States.\n\n1909 - Alice Huyler Ramsey became the first woman to drive across the United States.\n\n1911 - Helene Britton was the first woman to own a major league team. She was the head director of the St. Louis Cardinals from 1911 to 1917.\n\n1914 - Women's basketball rules changed to allow half-court play.\n\n1916 — The Women's International Bowling Congress, the all-female counterpart to the 1895-founded all-male American Bowling Congress for the tenpin bowling sport is established.\n\n1922 - The U.S. Field Hockey Association, the National Governing Body for field hockey in the United States, was established.\n\n1923 - The Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) sponsored the first national championships for women in track and field\n\n1924 - The Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) held the first national basketball tournament for women with six teams.\n\n1926 - The Amateur Athletic Union sponsored the first-ever national women's basketball championship.\n\n1926 - New York City native Gertrude Ederle became the first woman to swim the English Channel, which she did in fourteen hours, thirty-one minutes, beating the best time to date.\n\n1931 - Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis banned women from professional baseball. He felt that he needed to after a seventeen-year-old pitcher Virne Beatrice “Jackie” Mitchell struck out Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig in an exhibition game.\n\n1932 - Babe Didrikson was named Associate Press Woman Athlete of the Year for track and field after she scored enough points at the AAU national meet to win the team championship by herself. She scored thirty points, eight points more than the whole second place team earned.\n\n1936 - The All American Red Heads Team, a barnstorming troupe similar to the Bloomer Girls, was formed. It is generally regarded as the first women's professional basketball team.\n\n1936 - Ruth Hughes Aarons was the first American that won the world singles table tennis championship.\n\n1937 - Grace Hudowalski was the ninth person and first woman to climb all 46 of the Adirondack High Peaks.\n\n1943 - The All-American Girls Softball League was formed under Chicago White Sox owner Philip Wrigley. The League gradually transformed into the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League.\n\n1949 - Marcenia Lyle Alberga was the first woman to play a full season in a professional men’s baseball league.\n\n1949 - Sara Christian became the first female NASCAR driver, racing in the inaugural NASCAR race at Charlotte Speedway, even though she had Bob Flock finish the race. In the second official race at Daytona Beach and Road Course, also in 1949, Christian was joined by Ethel Mobley and Louise Smith, with Mobley finishing ahead of the 3, at 11th.\n\n1950 - Kathryn Johnston, only twelve years old, was the first girl to play Little League Baseball. She played for the King’s Dairy team in Corning, NY. Kathryn played at first base for the season, but then had to stop because of her age (she turned 13.) After that, a rule prohibited girls from playing in Little League; this was in force until 1974.\n\n1951 - Betty Chapman was the first African American professional softball player.\n\n1952 - Patricia McCormick began bullfighting as a professional \"Matadora\" in January 1952, and was the first American to do so.\n\n1953 – The USA women’s basketball team won the gold in the first international basketball game.\n\n1953 - Toni Stone, also known by her married name Marcenia Lyle Alberga, was the first of three women to play Negro league baseball, and thus the first woman to play as a regular on an American big-league professional baseball team.\n\n1954 - The All-American Girls Professional Baseball League played its last season.\n\n1955 - The first LPGA championship was held.\n\n1959 - Arlene Pieper became the first woman to officially finish a marathon in the United States when she finished the Pikes Peak Marathon.\n\n1960 - Mary McGee earns a FIM license and becomes the first official female motorcycle racer in the United States.\n\n1961 - The WIBC Queens all-female tenpin bowling tournament is first established.\n\n1966 - The first intercollegiate women's basketball tournament was played in Pennsylvania.\n\n1966 - Roberta Louise \"Bobbi\" Gibb was the first woman to run the entire Boston Marathon.\n\n1967 - Kathrine Switzer was the first woman to run the Boston Marathon as a numbered entry.\n\n1969 - Barbara Jo Rubin became the first female jockey to win a race in the United States.\n\n1970 - Mary Jo Peppler of the United States was voted the most outstanding volleyball player in the world at the International Games in Bulgaria.\n\n1971 - Cheryl White, an American, became the first black female jockey.\n\n1971 - The five-player, full-court game and the thirty-second shot clock was introduced to women's basketball.\n\n1971 - The Amateur Athletic Union ruled that \"certain women\" could take part in marathons, provided they either started their race 10 minutes before or after the men or on a different starting line. The different starting line requirement was dropped in 1972.\n\n1972 - President Richard Nixon signed Title IX of the Educational Amendment of 1972.\n\n1972 - Nina Kuscsik became the first woman to officially win the Boston Marathon.\n\n1973 - Billie Jean King won the \"Battle of the Sexes\" tennis match against Bobby Riggs.\n\n1973 - Billie Jean King founded the Women's Tennis Association, uniting all of women's professional tennis in one tour.\n\n1973 - Terry Williams Munz became the first woman in America awarded an athletic scholarship when she accepted a golf scholarship from the University of Miami.\n\n1973 - The first American to win the gymnastics title and an Olympic gold was Marcia Frederick.\n\n1974 - The Women's Sports Foundation was created by Billie Jean King. It is \"a charitable educational organization dedicated to increasing the participation of girls and women in sports and fitness and creating an educated public that supports gender equity in sport.\" The first women's professional football league (WPFL) kicks off its inaugural season with seven teams.\n\n1974 - The first women's professional football league in America (WPFL) kicked off its inaugural season with seven teams.\n\n1974 - Lanny Moss was the first woman to manage a professional men’s baseball team. She was hired by the minor league Portland Mavericks.\n\n1976 - In the first Women’s Professional Softball World Series Championship the Connecticut Falcons came out on top.\n\n1977 - Janet Guthrie was the first woman to compete in the Indianapolis 500 and the Daytona 500, and the first woman to lead a NASCAR Winston Cup Series (now Sprint Cup Series) event.\n\n1977 - Shirley Muldowney was the first woman to win a NHRA championship, in the Top Fuel category.\n\n1979 - At the Pan-American Games the United States Women’s National Team won the gold medal.\n\n1979 - Crystal Fields, only eleven years old, was the first girl to win a baseball Pitch, Hit, and Run competition. She competed against all boys in the finals.\n\n1979 - At the second Ironman Triathlon held in Honolulu Hawaii, Lyn Lemaire placed sixth overall and became the first Ironwoman.\n\n1980 - The first woman to run a mile under four and a half minutes was Mary Decker.\n\n1982 - The National Collegiate Athletic Association began sponsoring women’s basketball.\n\n1984 - The U.S. Women’s softball team won the championship in the first Women’s International Cup played in Los Angeles, beating China, 1-0.\n\n1984 - Joan Benoit of the U.S. won the first Olympic marathon for women.\n\n1985 - Libby Riddles became the first woman to win the Iditarod.\n\n1985 - Karyn Marshall became the first woman in history to clean and jerk over , with a 303 lb (137.5 kg) clean and jerk.\n\n1985 - The United States national soccer team was formed.\n\n1986 - Ann Bancroft was the first woman to reach the North Pole by foot and dogsled, \"...she became the first known woman to cross the ice to the North Pole.\"\n\n1986 - Nancy Lieberman joined the United States Basketball League (USBL), thus becoming the first woman to play in a men’s professional basketball league.\n\n1987 - Tania Aebi completed a solo circumnavigation of the globe in a 26-foot sailboat between the ages of 18 and 21, making her the first American woman to sail around the world.\n\n1987 - The first women’s world championship in weightlifting was held; it was held in Daytona Beach, Florida and won by Karyn Marshall.\n\n1987 - The [American] National Girls and Women in Sports Day (NGWSD) is an annual day of observance held during the first week of February to acknowledge the accomplishments of female athletes, recognize the influence of sports participation for women and girls, and honor the progress and continuing struggle for equality for women in sports. \n\nEach year since its inception in 1987, the United States Congress recognizes women's contributions to sports and society on a day during the first week of February.\n\n1988 - Shawna Robinson was the first woman to win a NASCAR-sanctioned stock car race, winning in the Charlotte/Daytona Dash Series at New Asheville Speedway.\n\n1988 - Stacy Allison became the first American woman to climb Mount Everest.\n\n1989 – Julie Croteau was the first woman to play NCAA baseball on first base for Division III St. Mary’s (MD) College.\n\n1991 - The first FIFA Women's World Cup tournament was held and won by the United States women's national soccer team.\n\n1992 - Major League Baseball lifted the ban on the signing of women to contracts, a ban that had existed since 1952.\n\n1992 - Manon Rhéaume, from Canada, became the first woman to play in a National Hockey League game, which also made her the first woman to play in any of the major professional North American sports leagues; she played for the Tampa Bay Lightning against the St. Louis Blues, and stopped seven of nine shots.\n\n1993 - Sherry Davies became the first woman public address announcer in major league baseball, working for the San Francisco Giants.\n\n1993 - USA Boxing officially lifted its ban on women's boxing in October 1993.\n\n1993 - Julie Krone became the first female jockey to win a Triple Crown race when she won the Belmont Stakes.\n\n1995 - Ila Borders was the first woman to pitch in a men’s collegiate baseball game.\n\n1996 - Women’s soccer and women’s softball became medal sports at the Olympic Games for the first time; both events were won by US teams.\n\n1996 - Dot Richardson hit the first home run in Olympic softball history, helping the U.S. softball team win the gold medal.\n\n1996 - Spalding Sports introduced the first baseball glove specifically designed to fit a woman’s hand.\n\n1997 - The WNBA began.\n1999 - The United States women's national soccer team won its second FIFA Women's World Cup tournament after defeating China in penalty kicks in front of 90,185 fans at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California.\n\n2000 - Following the success of the 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup, the first professional soccer league for women in the United States, Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA) was launched featuring several players from the national soccer team.\n\n2001 - Stephanie Ready was the first female coach of a men's professional league team in 2001, as an assistant coach for the now defunct Greenville Groove of the National Basketball Development League (the minor league of the National Basketball Association).\n\n2003 - The Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA) folds. Neither television ratings nor attendance met forecasts, while the league spent its initial $40 million budget, planned to last five years, by the end of the first season.\n\n2005 - Danica Patrick was the first woman to lead the Indianapolis 500.\n\n2005 - The organizers of the New York City Marathon announced they would be rewarding the female champion $130,000, that is $30,000 more than its male winner received. This may be the first time a sporting event ever paid more to a female than a male in the same competition. It is also the largest first prize for any marathon.\n\n2006 - Violet Palmer, forty-one, became the first woman to referee an NBA playoff game.\n\n2008 - Danica Patrick was the first woman to win an IndyCar Series by winning the 2008 Indy Japan 300.\n\n2009 - Danica Patrick finishes 3rd in the Indianapolis 500 the highest finishing woman in that event.\n\n2009 - Nancy Lieberman became the coach of the Texas Legends in the NBA Development League, an affiliate of the Dallas Mavericks, thus making her the first woman to coach a professional men's basketball team.\n\n2009 - The second professional women's soccer league, Women's Professional Soccer, is launched.\n\n2010 - Kelly Kulick won the 2010 \"PBA Tournament of Champions\", where she was the first-ever female competitor in the field. This also made her the first woman to win any Professional Bowlers Association Tour event that was also open to men.\n\n2012 - The U.S. Olympic team had more women than men for the first time — 269 female athletes to 261 men.\n\n2012 - Shannon Eastin was the first woman to officiate a National Football League game, in a pre-season matchup between the Green Bay Packers and the San Diego Chargers.\n\n2012 - The Women's Professional Soccer (WPS), the second professional women's soccer league in the United States, suspends operations citing several internal organization struggles as the primary cause, including an ongoing legal battle with ex-franchise owner Dan Borislow, and the lack of resources invested into the league.\n\n2012 - The National Women's Soccer League, the third professional women's soccer league in the United States, launches with eight teams across the United States. The 2016 season marks the first time an American women's professional soccer league continues running beyond three years.\n\n2013 - On her fifth attempt and at age 64, Diana Nyad was the first person confirmed to swim from Cuba to Florida without the protection of a shark cage, swimming from Havana to Key West.\n\n2013- Danica Patrick was the first woman to win the pole for the Daytona 500 and became the first woman to lead the Daytona 500, and finishes 8th in the event highest finish for a woman in that event.\n\n2013 - On March 1, 2013, Privateers owner and president Nicole Kirnan served as the team’s coach for the first time, making her the first woman to coach a professional hockey team in the United States.\n\n2014 - On May 31, 2014, it was announced that women could compete in medieval combat as a sport for the first time, and later that year Amy Graham was crowned medieval combat world champion at the IMCF (International Medieval Combat Federation) world championship. That year she also won the championship medal for the USA Valkyrie Melee Team.\n\n2014 - Anne B. France won the inaugural Landmark Award for Outstanding Contributions to NASCAR.\n\n2014 - Shelby Osborne became the first female defensive back in American football when she was drafted by Campbellsville University in Kentucky.\n\n2014 - Gabrielle Augustine pitched the final two innings for Hunter's Inn, thus becoming the first woman to play in the Glenwood Baseball League, which is the longest-running amateur baseball league in the United States, founded in 1920.\n\n2014 - During the two-week 2014 NBA Summer League in Las Vegas, Natalie Nakase was an assistant coach for the Clippers, becoming the first woman to sit on the bench as an NBA assistant.\n\n2014 - Michele A. Roberts was elected as the new Executive Director of the National Basketball Players Association, thus making her the first woman to be elected to the highest position of a major sport’s players association within the United States.\n\n2014 - Becky Hammon became the first full-time female coach in the NBA - and the first full-time female coach in any of the four major professional sports in America - as an assistant coach for the San Antonio Spurs.\n\n2014 - Catherine “Cat” Conti became the first female referee in Big 12 football history.\n\n2014 - The United States won its first women's volleyball world championship title (the Volleyball Women's World Championship).\n\n2014 - Kelly Xu, of Santa Monica, Calif., won the girls 7-9 division in the Drive, Chip and Putt Championship, thus becoming the first female champion ever crowned at Augusta National Golf Club.\n2015 - The winning United States women's national soccer team defeated former champions Japan 5–2 in the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup Final, led by a hat trick by Carli Lloyd. The team was honored with a historic ticker tape parade in New York City, marking the first time a women's sports team was celebrated in the city's Canyon of Heroes.\n\n2015 - Jennifer Welter became the first woman hired to coach in men's pro football when the Texas Revolution of the Champions Indoor Football league announced that Welter was hired to coach linebackers and special teams.\n\n2015 - Elana Meyers and pusher Cherrelle Garrett beat three German crews to win the first world championship title in women's bobsled for the United States.\n\n2015 - The first three African-Americans to place in the top three spots at the 100 yard freestyle in any Women’s Division I NCAA Swimming Championship were: Simone Manuel, Lia Neal, and Natalie Hinds in that order.\n\n2015 - Sarah Thomas became the first full-time female official in National Football League history.\n\n2015 - The World Series of Poker Circuit had its first female main event champion when Michelle Chin won the Horseshoe Council Bluffs $1,675 Main Event.\n\n2015 - Cindy Abbott became the first woman to both complete the Iditarod and summit Mount Everest; she climbed Mount Everest in 2010.\n2015 - On May 21, 2015, the United Women's Lacrosse League was co-founded in Boston, Massachusetts by Digit Murphy and Aronda Kirby of the Play It Forward Sports Foundation in a strategic partnership with STX.\n\n2015 - McKenna Haase became the first woman to win a feature Sprint Car race at Knoxville Raceway.\n\n2015 - The first American all-girls national baseball tournament was held.\n\n2015 - The first known all-girls tackle football league in America, the Utah Girls Tackle Football League, was formed.\n\n2015 - On July 3, 2015, the Spurs (of the NBA) announced that Becky Hammon would be the team's Summer League head-coach, the first female to head-coach in that league. The Spurs won the NBA Las Vegas Summer League title in 2015 with her as head coach.\n\n2015 - On July 27, 2015, the Arizona Cardinals hired Jennifer Welter as an assistant coaching intern for training camp and the preseason; as such, she is believed to be the first female coach in the NFL.\n\n2015 - At the World Championships, Katie Ledecky became the first swimmer to win the 200-, 400-, 800- and 1,500-meter freestyles in a major competition.\n\n2015 - Sarah Thomas was hired as the first full-time female official in NFL history.\n\n2015 - Stephanie Ready was named as the first full-time female NBA game analyst.\n\n2015 - Justine Siegal became the Oakland Athletics guest instructor for their Instructional League Club, thus making her the first female coach in professional baseball history.\n\n2015 - Laura Ann Foshee became the first woman to be awarded a college bass fishing scholarship for competitive fishing; the scholarship was for the Savannah College of Art and Design.\n\n2015 - Jessica Mendoza, John Kruk, and Dan Shulman called the 2015 American League Wild Card Game on October 6, and thus Mendoza became the first female analyst in Major League Baseball postseason history.\n\n2015 - The Raleigh Flyers of the American Ultimate Disc League signed the first ever female professional ultimate frisbee player, Jessi Jones, to play in their game against the Nashville Nightwatch. Jones, who was a team USA U-23 player in 2013, was signed as part of \"Women's Ultimate Day\".\n\n2016 - Kathryn Smith became the first woman to be a full-time coach in the NFL, when she was hired by the Buffalo Bills as a special teams quality control coach.\n\n2016 - Breanna Stewart was named the Most Outstanding Player of the Final Four (making her the first person to be most outstanding player of the Final Four four times).\n\n2016 - With their eleventh championship win in 2016, the UConn Huskies passed the UCLA Bruins men's team for most college basketball championships, and became the first Division 1 women's basketball team to win four straight national championships.\n\n2016 - Catherine \"Cat\" Conti fired by Pac-12 Conference and released from NFL Officiating Development Program.\n\n2016 - In August 2016, Dawn Braid was hired as the Arizona Coyotes’ skating coach, making her the first female full-time coach in the National Hockey League.\n\n2016 - Samantha Rapoport was hired by the NFL as the Director of Football Development, charged with increasing female participation with the league.\n\n2017 - The Connecticut Huskies women's basketball team obtained the longest winning streak in college basketball (both men's and women's), 111 straight wins, which started with a win against Creighton on December 23, 2014, and continued for 111 games until March 31, 2017, when they were beaten 66-64 on a last second shot in overtime by Mississippi State in the 2017 NCAA Final Four. This streak included an undefeated season in 2015–16.\n\n2017 - In the 2017 season, Jesse Shofner was selected to the roster for the Nashville Nightwatch, which made her the first female player to make a full season American Ultimate Disc League roster. \n\n2017 - Jesse Shofner scored two goals in the Nashville Nightwatch's first game of the 2017 season, making her the first woman to do so in any American Ultimate Disc League game.\n\n"}
{"id": "1489819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1489819", "title": "Transition economy", "text": "Transition economy\n\nA transition economy or transitional economy is an economy which is changing from a centrally planned economy to a market economy. Transition economies undergo a set of structural transformations intended to develop market-based institutions. These include economic liberalization, where prices are set by market forces rather than by a central planning organization. In addition to this trade barriers are removed, there is a push to privatize state-owned enterprises and resources, state and collectively run enterprises are restructured as businesses, and a financial sector is created to facilitate macroeconomic stabilization and the movement of private capital. The process has been applied in China, the former Soviet Union and Eastern bloc countries of Europe and some Third world countries, and detailed work has been undertaken on its economic and social effects.\n\nThe transition process is usually characterized by the changing and creating of institutions, particularly private enterprises; changes in the role of the state, thereby, the creation of fundamentally different governmental institutions and the promotion of private-owned enterprises, markets and independent financial institutions. In essence, one transition mode is the functional restructuring of state institutions from being a provider of growth to an enabler, with the private sector its engine. Another transition mode is change the way that economy grows and practice mode. The relationships between these two transition modes are micro and macro, partial and whole. The truly transition economics should include both the micro transition and macro transition. Due to the different initial conditions during the emerging process of the transition from planned economics to market economics, countries uses different transition model. Countries like P.R.China and Vietnam adopted a gradual transition mode, however Russia and some other East-European countries, such as the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, used a more aggressive and quicker paced model of transition.\n\nThe term \"transition period\" is often used to describe the process of transition from capitalism to socialism, preceding the establishment of fully developed socialism.\n\nThe existence of private property rights may be the most basic element of a market economy, and therefore implementation of these rights is the key indicator of the transition process.\n\nThe main ingredients of the transition process are:\n\nAccording to Oleh Havrylyshyn and Thomas Wolf of the International Monetary Fund, transition in a broad sense implies:\n\nEdgar Feige, cognizant of the trade-off between efficiency and equity, suggests that the social and political costs of transition adjustments can be reduced by adopting privatization methods that are egalitarian in nature, thereby providing a social safety net to cushion the disruptive effects of the transition process.\n\nThe European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) developed a set of indicators to measure the progress in transition. The classification system was originally created in the EBRD's 1994 Transition Report, but has been refined and amended in subsequent Reports. The EBRD's overall transition indicators are:\n\nThe economic malaise affecting the Comecon countries – low growth rates and diminishing returns on investment – led many domestic and Western economists to advocate market-based solutions and a sequenced programme of economic reform. It was recognized that micro-economic reform and macro-economic stabilization had to be combined carefully. Price liberalization without prior remedial measures to eliminate macro-economic imbalances, including an escalating fiscal deficit, a growing money supply due to a high level of borrowing by state-owned enterprises, and the accumulated savings of households (\"monetary overhang\") could result in macro-economic destabilization instead of micro-economic efficiency. Unless entrepreneurs enjoyed secure property rights and farmers owned their farms the process of Schumpeterian \"creative destruction\" would limit the reallocation of resources and prevent profitable enterprises from expanding to absorb the workers displaced from the liquidation of non-viable enterprises. A hardening of the budget constraints at state-owned enterprises would halt the drain on the state budget from subsidization but would require additional expenditure to counteract the resulting unemployment and drop in aggregate household spending. Monetary overhang meant that price liberalization might convert \"repressed inflation\" into open inflation, increase the price level still further and generate a price spiral. The transition to a market economy would require state intervention alongside market liberalization, privatization and deregulation. Rationing of essential consumer goods, trade quotas and tariffs and an active monetary policy to ensure that there was sufficient liquidity to maintain commerce might be needed. In addition to tariff protection, measures to control capital flight were also considered necessary in some instances.\n\nThe most influential strategy for the transition to a market economy was that adopted by Poland launched in January 1990. The strategy was strongly influenced by IMF and World Bank analyses of successful and unsuccessful stabilization programmes which had been adopted in Latin America in the 1980s. The strategy incorporated a number of interdependent measures including macro-economic stabilization; the liberalization of wholesale and retail prices; the removal of constraints to the development of private enterprises and the privatization of state-owned enterprises; the elimination of subsidies and the imposition of hard budget constraints; and the creation of an export-oriented economy that was open to foreign trade and investment. The creation of a social safety net targeted at the individual to compensate for the removal of job security and the removal of price controls on staple goods was also part of the strategy.\n\nThe choice of the transition strategy was influenced by the critical state of most post-socialist countries. Policy-makers were persuaded that political credibility took precedence over a sequenced reform plan and to introduce macro-economic stabilization measures ahead of structural measures that would by their nature take longer to implement. The \"credibility\" of the transition process was enhanced by the adoption of the Washington Consensus favoured by the IMF and the World Bank. Stabilization was deemed a necessity in Hungary and Poland where state budget deficits had grown and foreign debts had become larger than the country's capacity to service. Western advisers and domestic experts working with the national governments and the IMF introduced stabilization programmes aiming to achieve external and internal balance, which became known as shock therapy. It was argued that \"one cannot jump over a chasm in two leaps\".\n\nThe many foreign advisers from, principally, the United States, the United Kingdom and Sweden were often under contract to the international financial institutions and bilateral or multilateral technical assistance programmes. They favoured free trade and exchange rate convertibility rather than trade protection and capital controls, which might have checked capital flight. They tended to support privatization without prior industrial restructuring; an exception was to be found in Eastern Germany where the Treuhand (Trust Agency) prepared state-owned enterprises for the market at considerable cost to the government. Western technical assistance programmes were established by European Union – through the Phare and TACIS programmes – and other donors (including the US AID, the UK Know-how Fund and UNDP) and by the IMF, the World Bank, EBRD and KfW, which also advanced loans for stabilization, structural adjustment, industrial restructuring and social protection. Technical assistance was delivered through the exchange of civil servants and by management consultants, including Agriconsulting, Atos, COWI, Ernst & Young, GOPA, GTZ, Human Dynamics, Idom, IMC Consulting, Louis Berger, NIRAS, PA Consulting, PE International, Pohl Consulting, PwC, and SOFRECO.\n\nIt had been expected that the introduction of current account convertibility and foreign trade liberalization would force a currency devaluation that would support export-led growth. However, when prices were de-controlled enterprises and retailers raised their prices to match those prevailing in the black market or towards world price levels, earning them windfall profits initially. Consumers reacted by reducing their purchases and by substituting better quality imported goods in place of domestically produced goods. Falling sales led to the collapse of many domestic enterprises, with personnel lay-offs or reduced hours of work and pay. This further reduced effective demand. As imports grew and exporters failed to respond to opportunities in world markets due to the poor quality of their products and lack of resources for investment, the trade deficit expanded, putting downward pressure on the exchange rate. Many wholesalers and retailers marked prices according to their dollar values and the falling exchange rate fed inflation. The central banks in several countries raised interest rates and tightened credit conditions, depriving state agencies and enterprises of working capital. These in turn found it impossible to pay wages on time, dampening effective demand further.\n\nThe impacts of the conventional transition strategies proved to be de-stabilizing in the short-term and left the population impoverished in the long-term. Economic output declined much more than expected. The decline in output lasted until 1992-96 for all transition economies. By 1994, economic output had declined across all transition economies by 41 percent compared to its 1989 level. The Central and Eastern European economies began growing again around 1993, with Poland, which had begun its transition programme earliest emerging from recession in 1992. The Baltic States came out of recession in 1994 and the rest of the former Soviet Union around 1996. Inflation remained above 20 percent a year (except in the Czech Republic and Hungary) until the mid-1990s. Across all transition economies the peak annual inflation rate was 2632 percent (4645 percent in the CIS). Unemployment increased and wages fell in real terms, although in Russia and other CIS economies the rate of unemployment recorded at employment exchanges remained low. Labour force surveys undertaken by the International Labour Organization showed significantly higher rates of joblessness and there was considerable internal migration. High interest rates induced a \"credit crunch\" and fuelled inter-enterprise indebtedness and hampered the expansion of small and medium-sized enterprises, which often lacked the connections to obtain finance legitimately.\n\nIn time domestic producers were able to upgrade their production capacity and foreign direct investment was attracted to the transition economies. Local-manufactured higher quality consumer goods became available and won market share back from imports. Stabilization of the exchange rate was made more difficult by large-scale capital flight, with domestic agents sending part of their earning abroad to destinations where they believed their capital was more secure. The promise of\nEuropean Union membership and the adoption of the EU's legislation and regulations (the Community acquis or \"acquis communautaire\") helped secure trust in property rights and economic and governmental institutions in much of Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nSome economists have argued that the growth performance of the transition economies stemmed from the low level of development, decades of trade isolation and distortions in the socialist planned economies. They have emphasized that the transition strategies adopted reflected the need to resolve the economic crisis besetting the socialist planned economies and the overriding objective was the transformation to capitalist market economies rather than the fostering of economic growth and welfare.\n\nBut by 2000, the EBRD was reporting that the effects of the initial starting point in each transition economy on the reform process had faded. Although the foundations had been laid for a functioning market economy through sustained liberalization, comprehensive privatization, openness to international trade and investment, and the establishment of democratic political systems there remained institutional challenges. Liberalized markets were not necessarily competitive and political freedom had not prevented powerful private interests from exercising undue influence.\n\nTen years on, in the \"Transition Report\" for 2010, the EBRD was still finding that the quality of market-enabling institutions continued to fall short of what was necessary for well-functioning market economies. Growth in the transition economies had been driven by trade integration into the world economy with \"impressive\" export performance, and by \"rapid capital inflows and a credit boom\". But such growth had proved volatile and the EBRD considered that governments in the transition economies should foster the development of domestic capital markets and improve the business environment, including financial institutions, real estate markets and the energy, transport and communications infrastructure. The EBRD expressed concerns about regulatory independence and enforcement, price setting, and the market power of incumbent infrastructure operators.\n\nIncome inequality as measured by the Gini coefficient rose significantly in the transition economies between 1987 and 1988 and the mid-1990s. Poverty re-emerged with between 20 and 50 percent of people living below the national poverty line in the transition economies. The UN Development Programme calculated that overall poverty in Eastern Europe and the CIS increased from 4 percent of the population in 1988 to 32 percent by 1994, or from 14 million people to 119 million. Unemployment and rates of economic inactivity were still high in the late 1990s according to survey data.\n\nBy 2007, the year before the global financial crisis hit, the index for GDP had reached 112 compared to 100 in 1989 for the transition economies. In other words, it took nearly 20 years to restore the level of output that had existed prior to the transition. The index of economic output (GDP) in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe was 151 in 2007; for the Balkans/ South-eastern Europe the index was 111, and for the Commonwealth of Independent States and Mongolia it was 102. Several CIS countries in the Caucasus and Central Asia as well as Moldova and Ukraine had economies that were substantially smaller than in 1989.\n\nThe global recession of 2008-09 and the Eurozone crisis of 2011-13 destabilized the transition economies, reduced growth rates and increased unemployment. The slowdown hit government revenues and widened fiscal deficits but almost all transition economies had experienced a partial recovery and had maintained low and stable inflation since 2012.\n\nTransition trajectories have varied considerably in practice. Some nations have been experimenting with market reform for several decades, while others are relatively recent adopters (e.g., Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro). In some cases reforms have been accompanied with political upheaval, such as the overthrow of a dictator (Romania), the collapse of a government (the Soviet Union), a declaration of independence (Croatia), or integration with another country (East Germany). In other cases economic reforms have been adopted by incumbent governments with little interest in political change (China, Laos, Vietnam). Transition trajectories also differ in terms of the extent of central planning being relinquished (e.g., high centralized coordination among the CIS states) as well as the scope of liberalization efforts being undertaken (e.g., relatively limited in Romania). Some countries, such as Vietnam, have experienced macro-economic upheavals over different periods of transition, even transition turmoil.\n\nAccording to the World Bank's \"10 Years of Transition\" report \"... the wide dispersion in the productivity of labour and capital across types of enterprises at the onset of transition and the erosion of those differences between old and new sectors during the reform provide a natural definition of the end of transition.\" Mr. Vito Tanzi, Director of the IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department, gave definition that the transformation to a market economy is not complete until functioning fiscal institutions and reasonable and affordable expenditure programs, including basic social safety nets for the unemployed, the sick, and the elderly, are in place. Mr Tanzi stated that these spending programs must be financed from public revenues generated—through taxation—without imposing excessive burdens on the private sector.\n\nAccording to the EBRD a well-functioning market economy should enjoy a diverse range of economic activities, equality of opportunity and convergence of incomes. These outcomes had not yet been achieved by 2013 and progress in establishing well-functioning market economies had stalled since the 1990s. On the EBRD's measure of transition indicators the transition economies had become \"stuck in transition\". Price liberalization, small-scale privatization and the opening-up of trade and foreign exchange markets were mostly complete by the end of the 1990s. However economic reform had slowed in areas such governance, enterprise restructuring and competition policy, which remained substantially below the standard of other developed market economies.\n\nInequality of opportunity was higher in the transition economies of Central and Eastern Europe and Central Asia than in some other developed economies in Western Europe (except France, where inequality of opportunity was relatively high). The highest inequality of opportunity was found in the Balkans and Central Asia. In terms of legal regulations and access to education and health services, inequality of opportunity related to gender was low in Europe and Central Asia but medium to high in respect of labour practices, employment and entrepreneurship and in access to finance. In Central Asia women also experienced significant lack of access to health services, as was the case in Arab countries. While many transition economies performed well with respect to primary and secondary education, and matched that available in many other developed economies, they were weaker when it came to training and tertiary education.\n\nOver the decade 1994 to 2004, the transition economies had closed some of the gap in income per person with the average for the European Union in purchasing power parity terms. These gains had been driven by sustained growth in productivity as obsolete capital stock was scrapped and production shifted to take advantage of the opening-up of foreign trade, price liberalization and foreign direct investment. However the rapid growth rates of that period of catch-up had stalled since the late 2000s and the prospects for income convergence have receded according to the EBRD's prognosis, unless there are additional productivity-enhancing structural reforms.\n\nThe recent history of transition suggested that weak political institutions and entrenched interest groups had hindered economic reform. The EBRD's \"Transition Report 2013\" looked at the relationship between transition and democratization. The report acknowledged that the academic literature was divided on whether economic development fostered democracy but argued that there was nonetheless strong empirical support for the hypothesis. It suggested that countries with high inequality were less inclined to support a limited and accountable state. In general, the proportion of the population with an income of between US$10–50 a day (the so-called \"middle class\") correlated with the level of democracy; however this correlation disappeared in transition countries with high income inequality. Those countries with large natural resource endowments, for example oil and gas producers like Russia and Kazakhstan, had less accountable governments and faced less electoral pressure to tackle powerful vested interests because the government could rely on resource rents and did not have to tax the population heavily. Countries with a strong institutional environment – that is, effective rule of law, secure property rights and uncorrupted public administration and corporate governance – were better placed to attract investment and undertake restructuring and regulatory change.\n\nTo spur further economic reform and break out of a vicious circle, the EBRD \"Transition Report 2013\" proposed that the transition economies should: \n\nAlthough the term \"transition economies\" usually covers the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union, this term may have a wider context. There are countries outside of Europe, emerging from a socialist-type command economy towards a market-based economy (e.g., China). Moreover, in a wider sense the definition of transition economy refers to all countries which attempt to change their basic constitutional elements towards market-style fundamentals. Their origin could be also in a post-colonial situation, in a heavily regulated Asian-style economy, in a Latin American post-dictatorship or even in a somehow economically underdeveloped country in Africa.\n\nIn 2000, the IMF listed the following countries with transition economies:\nIn addition, in 2002 the World Bank defined Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (later Serbia and Montenegro) as transition economies. In 2009, World Bank included Kosovo in the list of transition economies. Some World Bank studies also include Mongolia. According to the IMF, Iran is in transition to a market economy, demonstrating early stages of a transition economy.\n\nThe eight first-wave accession countries, which joined the European Union on 1 May 2004 (Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia) and the two second-wave accession countries that joined on 1 January 2007 (Romania and Bulgaria) have completed the transition process. According to the World Bank, \"the transition is over\" for the 10 countries that joined the EU in 2004 and 2007.\nIt can be also understood as all countries of the Eastern Bloc.\n\n\"Transition economics\" is a special branch of economics dealing with the transformation of a planned economy to a market economy. It has become especially important after the collapse of Communism in Central and Eastern Europe. Transition economics investigates how an economy should reform itself to endorse capitalism and democracy. There are usually two sides: one which argues for a rapid transformation and one which argues for a gradual approach. Gérard Roland's book \"Transition and Economics. Politics, Markets and Firms\" (MIT Press 2000) gives a good overview of the field. A more recent overview is provided in \"Transition Economies: Political Economy in Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia\" by Martin Myant and Jan Drahokoupil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1187068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187068", "title": "Weyto language", "text": "Weyto language\n\nWeyto is a speculative extinct language thought to have been spoken in the Lake Tana region of Ethiopia by the Weyto, a small group of hippopotamus hunters who now speak Amharic. \n\nThe Weyto language was first mentioned by the Scottish traveler James Bruce, who spoke Amharic, passed through the area about 1770 and reported that \"the Wayto speak a language radically different from any of those in Abyssinia,\" but was unable to obtain any \"certain information\" on it, despite prevailing upon the king to send for two Weyto men for him to ask questions, which they would \"neither answer nor understand\" even when threatened with hanging. The next European to report on them, Eugen Mittwoch, described them as uniformly speaking a dialect of Amharic (Mittwoch 1907). This report was confirmed by Marcel Griaule when he passed through in 1928, although he added that at one point a Weyto sang an unrecorded song \"in the dead language of the Wohitos\" whose meaning the singer himself did not understand, except for a handful of words for hippopotamus body parts which, he says, had remained in use. \n\nThis Amharic dialect is described by Marcel Cohen (1939) as featuring a fair number of words derived from Amharic roots but twisted in sound or meaning in order to confuse outsiders, making it a sort of argot; in addition to these, it had a small number of Cushitic loanwords not found in standard Amharic, and a large number of Arabic loanwords mainly related to Islam. Of the substantial wordlist collected by Griaule, Cohen only considered six terms to be etymologically obscure: \"šəlkərít\" \"fish-scale\", \"qəntat\" \"wing\", \"čəgəmbit\" \"mosquito\", \"annessa\" \"shoulder\", \"nkes\" \"hippopotamus thigh\", \"wazəməs\" \"hippopotamus spine.\" By 1965, the visiting anthropologist Frederick Gamst found \"no surviving native words, not even relating to their hunting and fishing work tasks.\" (Gamst 1965.)\n\nThe paucity of the data available has not prevented speculation on the classification of their original language; Cohen suggested that it might have been either an Agaw language or a non-Amharic Semitic language, while Dimmendaal (1989) says it \"probably belonged to Cushitic\" (as does Agaw), and Gamst (1965) says \"...it can be assumed that if the Wäyto did not speak Amharic 200 years ago, their language must have been Agäw...\" According to the Ethnologue, Bender \"et al.\" (1976) saw it as Cushitic, while Bender 1983 saw it as either Eastern Sudanic or Awngi. It thus effectively remains unclassified, largely for lack of data, but possibly related to Agaw.\n\n"}
{"id": "17503833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17503833", "title": "Xenophobia in South Africa", "text": "Xenophobia in South Africa\n\nPrior to 1994, immigrants from elsewhere faced discrimination and even violence in South Africa. After majority rule in 1994, contrary to expectations, the incidence of xenophobia increased. Between 2000 and March 2008, at least 67 people died in what were identified as xenophobic attacks. In May 2008, a series of attacks left 62 people dead; although 21 of those killed were South African citizens. The attacks were apparently motivated by xenophobia. In 2015, another nationwide spike in xenophobic attacks against immigrants in general prompted a number of foreign governments to begin repatriating their citizens.\n\nBetween 1984 and the end of hostilities in that country, an estimated 50,000 to 350,000 Mozambicans fled to South Africa. While never granted refugee status they were technically allowed to settle in the bantustans or black homelands created during the apartheid system. The reality was more varied, with the homeland of Lebowa banning Mozambican settlers outright while Gazankulu welcomed the refugees with support in the form of land and equipment. Those in Gazankulu, however, found themselves confined to the homeland and liable for deportation should they officially enter South Africa, and evidence exists that their hosts denied them access to economic resources.\n\nUnrest and civil war likewise saw large numbers of Congolese people emigrate to South Africa, many illegally, in 1993 and 1997. Subsequent studies found indications of xenophobic attitudes towards these refugees, typified by them being denied access to the primary healthcare to which they were technically entitled.\n\nDespite a lack of directly comparable data, xenophobia in South Africa is perceived to have significantly increased after the election of a Black majority government in 1994. According to a 2004 study published by the Southern African Migration Project (SAMP):\n\nThe ANC government – in its attempts to overcome the divides of the past and build new forms of social cohesion ... embarked on an aggressive and inclusive nation-building project. One unanticipated by-product of this project has been a growth in intolerance towards outsiders ... Violence against foreign citizens and African refugees has become increasingly common and communities are divided by hostility and suspicion.\nThe study was based on a citizen survey across member states of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and found South Africans expressing the harshest anti-immigrant sentiment, with 21% of South Africans in favour of a complete ban on foreign entry and 64% in favour of strict limitations on the numbers permitted. By contrast, the next-highest proportion of respondents in favour of a complete ban on immigration were in neighbouring Namibia, and Botswana, at 10%.\n\nA 2004 study by the Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation (CSVR) of attitudes amongst police officers in the Johannesburg area found that 87% of respondents believed that most undocumented immigrants in Johannesburg are involved in crime, despite there being no statistical evidence to substantiate the perception. Such views combined with the vulnerability of illegal aliens led to abuse, including violence and extortion, some analysts argued.\n\nIn a March 2007 meeting with Home Affairs Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, a representative of Burundian refugees in Durban; claimed that immigrants could not rely on police for protection, but instead found police mistreating them, stealing from them and making unconfirmed allegations that they sell drugs.\nTwo years earlier, at a similar meeting in Johannesburg, Mapisa-Nqakula had admitted that refugees and asylum seekers were mistreated by police with xenophobic attitudes.\n\nAccording to a 1998 Human Rights Watch report, immigrants from Malawi, Zimbabwe and Mozambique living in the Alexandra township were \"physically assaulted over a period of several weeks in January 1995, as armed gangs identified suspected undocumented migrants and marched them to the police station in an attempt to 'clean' the township of foreigners.\"\nThe campaign, known as \"Buyelekhaya\" (go back home), blamed foreigners for crime, unemployment and sexual attacks.\n\nIn September 1998, a Mozambican national and two Senegalese citizens were thrown out of a train. The assault was carried out by a group returning from a rally that blamed foreigners for unemployment, crime and the spread of AIDS.\n\nIn 2000, seven foreigners were killed on the Cape Flats over a five-week period in what police described as xenophobic murders possibly motivated by the fear that outsiders would claim property belonging to locals.\n\nIn October 2001, residents of the Zandspruit informal settlement gave Zimbabwean citizens ten days to leave the area. When the foreigners failed to leave voluntarily, they were forcefully evicted and their shacks were burned down and looted. Community members said they were angry that Zimbabweans were employed whilst locals remained jobless and blamed the foreigners for a number of crimes. No injuries were reported amongst the affected Zimbabweans.\n\nIn the last week of 2005 and first week of 2006, at least four people, including two Zimbabweans, died in the Olievenhoutbosch settlement after foreigners were blamed for the death of a local man. Shacks belonging to foreigners were set alight and locals demanded that police remove all immigrants from the area.\n\nIn August 2006, Somali refugees appealed for protection after 21 Somali traders were killed in July of that year and 26 more in August. The immigrants believed the murders to be motivated by xenophobia, although police rejected the assertion of a concerted campaign to drive Somali traders out of townships in the Western Cape.\n\nAttacks on foreign nationals increased markedly in late-2007 and it is believed that there were at least a dozen attacks between January and May 2008. The most severe incidents occurred on 8 January 2008 when two Somali shop owners were murdered in the Eastern Cape towns of Jeffreys Bay and East London, then in March 2008 when seven people were killed including Zimbabweans, Pakistanis and a Somali national after their shops and shacks were set alight in Atteridgeville near Pretoria.\n\nOn 12 May 2008 a series of riots started in the township of Alexandra (in the north-eastern part of Johannesburg) when locals attacked migrants from Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe, killing two people and injuring 40 others. Some attackers were reported to have been singing Jacob Zuma's campaign song \"Umshini Wami\" ().\n\nIn the following weeks the violence spread, first to other settlements in the Gauteng Province, then to the coastal cities of Durban\nand Cape Town.\n\nAttacks were also reported in parts of the Southern Cape,\nMpumalanga,\nthe North West and Free State.\n\nIn Khutsong in Gauteng and the various shack settlements governed by Abahlali baseMjondolo in KwaZulu-Natal social movements were able to ensure that there were no violent attacks. The Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign also organised campaigns against xenophobia. Pallo Jordan argues that \"Active grass-roots interventions contained the last wave of xenophobia\".\n\nA report by the Human Sciences Research Council identified four broad causes for the violence:\n\nA subsequent report, \"Towards Tolerance, Law and Dignity: Addressing Violence against Foreign Nationals in South Africa\" commissioned by the International Organisation for Migration found that poor service delivery or an influx of foreigners may have played a contributing role, but blamed township politics for the attacks.\nIt also found that community leadership was potentially lucrative for unemployed people, and that such leaders organised the attacks.\nLocal leadership could be illegitimate and often violent when emerging from either a political vacuum or fierce competition, the report said, and such leaders enhanced their authority by reinforcing resentment towards foreigners.\n\n1400 suspects were arrested in connection with the violence. Nine months after the attacks 128 individuals had been convicted and 30 found not guilty in 105 concluded court cases. 208 cases had been withdrawn and 156 were still being heard.\n\nOne year after the attacks prosecutors said that 137 people had been convicted, 182 cases had been withdrawn because witnesses or complainants had left the country, 51 cases were underway or ready for trial and 82 had been referred for further investigation.\n\nIn May 2009, one year after the attacks the Consortium for Refugees and Migrants in South Africa (Cormsa) said that foreigners remained under threat of violence and that little had been done to address the causes of the attacks. The organisation complained of a lack of accountability for those responsible for public violence, insufficient investigations into the instigators and the lack of a public government inquiry.\n\nAfter being housed in temporary places of safety (including police stations and community halls) for three weeks, those who fled the violence were moved into specially established temporary camps. Conditions in some camps were condemned on the grounds of location and infrastructure, highlighting their temporary nature.\n\nThe South African government initially adopted a policy of quickly reintegrating refugees into the communities they originally fled and subsequently set a deadline in July 2008, by which time refugees would be expected to return to their communities or countries of origin. After an apparent policy shift the government vowed that there would be no forced reintegration of refugees and that the victims would not be deported, even if they were found to be illegal immigrants.\n\nIn May 2009, one year after the attacks, the City of Cape Town said it would apply for an eviction order to force 461 remaining refugees to leave two refugee camps in that city.\n\nOn 21 May, then-President Thabo Mbeki approved a request from the SAPS for deployment of armed forces against the attacks in Gauteng. It is the first time that the South African government has ordered troops out to the streets in order to quell unrest since the end of apartheid in the early 1990s.\n\nSeveral political parties blamed each other, and sometimes other influences, for the attacks. The Gauteng provincial branch of the ANC has alleged that the violence is politically motivated by a \"third hand\" that is primarily targeting the ANC for the 2009 general elections. Both the Minister of Intelligence, Ronnie Kasrils, and the director general of the National Intelligence Agency, Manala Manzini, backed the Gauteng ANC's allegations that the anti-immigrant violence is politically motivated and targeted at the ANC. Referring to published allegations by one rioter that he was being paid to commit violent acts against immigrants, Manzini said that the violence was being stoked primarily within hostel facilities by a third party with financial incentives.\n\nHelen Zille, leader of the official opposition party the Democratic Alliance (DA), pointed to instances of crowds of rioters singing \"Umshini wami\", a song associated then-president of the ANC Jacob Zuma, and noted that the rioters also hailed from the rank and file of the ANC Youth League. She alleged that Zuma had promised years before to his supporters to take measures against the immigration of foreign nationals to South Africa and that Zuma's most recent condemnation of the riots and distancing from the anti-immigration platform was not enough of a serious initiative against the participation of fellow party members in the violence. Both Zille and the parliamentary leader of the DA, Sandra Botha, slammed the ANC for shifting the blame concerning the violence to a \"third hand\", which is often taken in South African post-apartheid political discourse as a reference to pro-apartheid or allegedly pro-apartheid organisations.\n\nZuma, in turn, condemned both the attacks and the Mbeki government's response to the attacks; Zuma also lamented the usage of his trademark song \"Umshini wami\" by the rioters. Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe called for the creation of local committees to combat violence against foreigners.\n\nZille was also criticised by Finance Minister Trevor Manuel for being quoted in the Cape Argus as saying that foreigners were responsible for a bulk of the drug trade in South Africa.\n\nIn KwaZulu-Natal province, Bheki Cele, provincial community safety minister, blamed the Inkatha Freedom Party, a nationalist Zulu political party, for stoking and capitalising on the violence in Durban. Both Cele and premier S'bu Ndebele claimed that IFP members had attacked a tavern that catered to Nigerian immigrants en route to a party meeting. The IFP, which is based primarily in the predominantly ethnically-Zulu KwaZulu-Natal province, rejected the statements, and had, on 20 May, engaged in an anti-xenophobia meeting with the ANC.\n\nRadical grassroots movements and organisations came out strongly against the 2008 xenophobic attacks calling them pogroms promoted by government and political parties. Some have claimed that local politicians and police have sanctioned the attacks. At they time they also called for the closure of the Lindela Repatriation Centre which is seen as an example of the negative way the South African government treats African foreigners.\n\nThe attacks were condemned by a wide variety of organisations and government leaders throughout Africa and the rest of the world.\n\nThe Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees expressed concerns about the violence and urged the South African government to cease deportation of Zimbabwean nationals and also to allow the refugees and asylum seekers to regularise their stay in the country.\n\nMalawi began repatriation of some of its nationals in South Africa. The Mozambican government sponsored a repatriation drive that saw the registration of at least 3 275 individuals.\n\nIn late May 2009, reports emerged regarding a possible resurgence of xenophobic related activity and the organising of attacks in the Western Cape. Reports of threats and secret meetings by local businessmen surfaced in Gugulethu, Khayelitsha and Philippi, Cape Town. Samora Machel in Philippi once again emerging as a flash-point. In Gugulethu, reports emerged of secret meetings by local businessmen discussing 'what to do about Somali shopkeepers'. The Anti-Eviction Campaign brought these issues to the open by organising a series of anti-xenophobia meetings attempting to find the root cause of the crisis.\n\nIn November 2009, a community of 1500-2500 Zimbabwean farm workers was forcibly evicted from their homes in the informal settlements of De Doorns, a grape-farming town in the Western Cape. No persons were physically assaulted but homes were trashed and looted and this led to the biggest displacement of foreign nationals since May 2008. The Zimbabweans were then housed in a displaced persons' camp where some remained for a year until it was closed. Researchers identified the role of a ward councillor, Mpumelelo Lubisi, in inciting the attack in possible collusion with informal labour brokers who had financial interests in getting rid of their Zimbabwean competitors. South African workers also accused farmers of employing the Zimbabweans at less than minimum wage (farmers and Zimbabwean workers denied this).\n\nIn 2010 the press carried numerous articles claiming that there would be massive planned xenophobic violence at the end of the 2010 Football World Cup. However this did not happen.\n\nIn July 2012 there were new attacks in parts of Cape Town and in Botshabelo in the Free State.\n\nSouth Africa's borders have been militarised. According to Christopher McMichael:\n\n\"This shared state-corporate project of building up a 'fortress South Africa' also reveals a deeply entrenched seam of xenophobia, in which undocumented migrants and refugees from African countries are painted as a security risk akin to terrorism and organised crime. Parliamentary discussions on border security are rife with claims that foreign nationals are attempting to drain social grants and economic opportunities from citizens. The packaging of illegal immigration as a national security threat, which often relies on unsubstantiated claims about the inherent criminality of foreign nationals, provides an official gloss on deeply entrenched governmental xenophobia, in which African immigrants are targets for regular harassment, rounding up and extortion by the police. This normalisation of immigrants as figures of resentment may also fuel outbreaks of xenophobic violence.\"\n\nOn 30 May 2013, 25-year-old Abdi Nasir Mahmoud Good, was stoned to death. The violence was captured on a mobile phone and shared on the Internet.\n\nThree Somali shopkeepers had been killed in June 2013 and the Somali government requested the South African authorities to do more to protect their nationals. Among those murdered were two brothers who were allegedly hacked to death. The attacks led to public outcry and worldwide protests by the Somali diaspora, in Cape Town, London and Minneapolis.\n\nSouth African Foreign Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane expressed the government's \"strongest condemnation\" of the violence which has recently seen looting and the death of a Somali shopkeeper. Somali Prime Minister Abdi Farah Shirdon has expressed concern for the safety of Somalis in South Africa, calling on the government there to intervene to stop violence against Somali people after deadly attacks in Pretoria and Port Elizabeth.\n\nOn 7 June 2014, a Somali national, in his 50s, was reportedly stoned to death and two others were seriously injured when the angry mob of locals attacked their shop in extension 6 late on Saturday. Three more Somalis were wounded from gunshots and shops were looted.\n\nAfter another round of xenophobic violence against Somali entrepreneurs in April 2015, Somalia's government announced that it would evacuate its citizens from South Africa.\n\nIn April 2015, there was an upsurge in xenophobic attacks throughout the country. The attacks started in Durban and spread to Johannesburg. Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini has been accused of fuelling the attacks by saying that foreigners should \"go back to their countries\".\n\nLocals looted foreigners' shops and attacked immigrants in general, forcing hundreds to relocate to police stations across the country. The Malawian authorities subsequently began repatriating their nationals, and a number of other foreign governments also announced that they would evacuate their citizens. More than 300 people were arrested. On 18 April 2015 a photographer from the Sunday Times, James Oatway, photographed a brutal attack on a Mozambican man. The man, Emmanuel Sithole, died from his wounds. Four suspects were arrested within days of the publication of photographs in the 19 April edition of \"The Sunday Times\" of the murder of Mozambican street vendor Emmanuel Sithole in Alexandra township the previous day. Sithole's name is not included in the official list of seven victims killed in the April 2015 attacks, including an Ethiopian, a Mozambican, a Bangladeshi, a Zimbabwean and three South Africans who were all killed in KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nDespite the government's insistence that Sithole's murder was not xenophobic, the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) was deployed in Alexandra township following the publication of the images. On 23 April several thousand demonstrators marched through central Johannesburg to protest against a spate of deadly attacks on immigrants. They sang songs denouncing xenophobia and carried banners that read \"We are all Africans\" as migrant workers crowded balconies, shouting their support.\n\nIn October 2015 there were sustained xenophobic attacks in Grahamstown in the Eastern Cape. It as reported than more than 500 people were displaced and more than 300 shops and homes looted and, in some cases, destroyed altogether. In these attacks Muslims were specifically targeted.\n\nThe Grahamstown xenophobic attacks that took place on October 21, 2015, and coincided with the FeesMustFall protest at Rhodes University, lasted for several days.\n\nThe attacks were instigated by the taxi drivers' protests, where the drivers' were protesting over the terrible state of roads, the rise in crime and rumours of murders committed by foreigners. Their demands were that the mayor ought to do something about their grievances. Their grievances were not addressed by the mayor.\n\nOn 21 October 2015 taxi drivers attacked spaza shops owned by Pakistani, Somali, Bangladeshi and Ethiopian residents of Grahamstown. There was a mobilisation of people by the taxi drivers, with the aim of attacking and looting shops owned by foreigners. There was a rumour that insinuated that foreigners were responsible for the rampant murders in town: that an \"Arab man had killed and mutilated women\" around town and that the police had not done anything to address these rumours. Grahamstown residents in the townships were angry at the police for not doing anything to dispel the rumours, despite having been warned by the councillors that the residents might end up taking the law into their own hands. Thus, it was these rumours that incited the attacks on foreigners.\n\nOn the 23rd of October, the Makana Municipality held a town meeting at City Hall. The meeting was focused on how the municipality and the South African police would pacify the residents and address the situation. During that meeting, there was no representative from the police and one of the ward councillors further legitimized the attacks through xenophobic sentiments centred on not giving foreigners a platform to have their own shops. The attacks continued, with taxi drivers transporting looters for free, according to the residents of Grahamstown.\n\nReports from the residents allege that the police's attitudes were that of indifference, with some participating in the looting. The policing of the attacks was elitist as there was a line on Beaufort street which pointed out where looting would be tolerated and where it would not be. Thus, looting was allowed in the township and not tolerated in town. The police only pacified the situation and restored order after a week of attacks and looting. The xenophobic attacks in Grahamstown differed from the usual xenophobic attacks in South Africa as the ones in Grahamstown were mostly targeted at Muslims. The main reason why Muslims were targeted was mainly due to the rumour that an Arab man was responsible for the murder of women in the town.\n\nFrom 20–23 June 2016 a wave of riots hit the City of Tshwane. Although the riots were sparked by political discontent within the ANC Somali, Pakistani and other foreign owned shops and micro enterprises were targeted for looting and a number of foreigners were attacked.\n\nOn Friday the 24 February 2017 a large scale and officially sanctioned anti-immigrant protest was organised and held in the Pretoria. Protesters marched to the Foreign Ministry and handed a petition to government representatives. Protesters accused immigrants of taking jobs from South Africans, causing crime, and complained that \"[t]hey are arrogant and they don't know how to talk to people, especially Nigerians.\" 136 protesters were arrested during the march.\n\nSouth African Small Business Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu said that foreign business owners cannot expect to co-exist peacefully with local business owners unless they share their trade secrets. According to Zulu, foreign business owners had an advantage over South African business owners due to marginalisation under apartheid. \"They cannot barricade themselves in and not share their practices with local business owners,\" Zulu said. The comments were met with widespread criticism.\n\nAn inquiry by the Competition Commission – the country's anti-trust regulator, has indicated that a difference in performance between foreign and local business owners has created a perception that foreigners are more successful than locals. While there is nothing wrong with examining the dynamics of competition, the insinuation that foreign business owners were to blame for the decline of South African-owned small business was worrying.\n\nVanya Gastrow, a researcher from the African Centre for Migration in Johannesburg, published a case study on the economics of small traders in South Africa. The study titled \"Somalinomics\", outlined the trade practices of Somali traders in South Africa. According to Gastrow, most small foreign retailers set a low mark-up to make a high turnover, they locate their businesses in highly trafficked pedestrian areas, they open early and close late and have a wider product range.\n\n\n"}
