{"id": "22949807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22949807", "title": "Adam Burski", "text": "Adam Burski\n\nAdam Burski or Bursius (ca. 1560–1611) was a Polish philosopher of the Renaissance period.\n\nBurski was a leading Polish representative of Stoicism. He wrote a \"Dialectica Ciceronis\" (1604) that boldly proclaimed Stoic sensualism and empiricism and—before Francis Bacon—urged the use of inductive method. He set himself the same goals as Lipsius, the restorer of Stoicism famous in the West. Lipsius himself valued highly the work of his Polish fellow-philosopher.\n\nBurski's person was associated with a new institution of higher learning that came into being in the late 16th century: the Zamojski Academy, founded in Zamość by Jan Zamoyski (who had also founded that city). At Zamoyski's invitation, Burski, who had been rector of the Lwów Lyceum and a professor at Kraków University, in 1596 at Zamość became a professor of moral philosophy, remaining in that post to the end of his life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27140333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27140333", "title": "Affection Exchange Theory", "text": "Affection Exchange Theory\n\nAffection Exchange Theory (AET) was introduced in 2001 by Kory Floyd, who is currently a professor of communication at the University of Arizona. The theory was first presented in two of Floyd’s research projects. The first was in a paper presented to the Western States Communication Association in Coeur d’Alene, ID in February 2001. The paper was titled \"Elements of an affection exchange theory: Socioevolutionary paradigm for understanding affectionate communication\". The second was in an article titled “Human Affection Exchange I: Reproductive probability as a predictor of men’s affection with their sons,” published in \"The Journal of Men’s Studies\" in Fall 2001. When this theory was constructed, Floyd was working as a professor at Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona in the Hugh Downs School of Human Communication. Many studies had been done up to this point (including some of Floyd’s own research pieces) regarding affection and its involvement in interpersonal relationships, particularly between romantic partners and between parents and their children. In 2001, Floyd introduced AET, which was the first theory to address some of the short and long-term effects of the exchange of affection.\n\nFloyd explains, “affection exchange theory treats affectionate communication as an adaptive behavior that contributes to humans’ long-term viability and procreative success” (Floyd, 2001, p. 40). He also described AET this way: “AET posits that affection exchange contributes to survival because it promotes pair bonding and the increased access to resources pair bonds provide” (Floyd, 2001, pp. 40–41). Another facet of AET was that the exchange of affection served as an indicator to another individual that he or she was a good prospect for parenthood (Floyd, 2001). Lastly, Floyd indicated that when parents show affection to their children, their children are more likely to be successful in reproducing; thus, the parents’ genes will be passed down further (Floyd, 2001). To Floyd, this was seen as a benefit of affection exchange.\n\nFloyd had done much work in the area of affection involved in communication processes before introducing this theory. One of the areas that was so unique in the study of affection was the idea of the \"expectations\" involved in affection exchange. Canary et al. (2008) point out that the expectations involved in affection exchange as well as a curiosity about the evolutionary and biological bases for affection expectations are what led Floyd to develop this theory (p. 72). Canary et al. (2008) also note, “In AET, affection is thought of as an adaptive behavior that is helpful to long-term human survival by promoting bonding and increased access to resources. If this theory is correct, affection ought to increase as its ability to enhance survival increases” (p. 72).\n\nA great deal of this theory’s premise can be linked back to Darwin’s principles that state that reproductivity and survival are what serve as humans’ most fundamental motivations. With these ideas in mind, it follows that humans would do everything they could to make sure that their genes carry on, even if that means (intentionally or unintentionally) showing more affection to a child that the parent knew was more likely to reproduce. Linked to this idea, Floyd’s studies have shown that fathers display less affection toward their sons if the sons identify as homosexual or bisexual (Canary et al., 2008, p. 74). In general, AET presents the idea that parents are more likely to show affection to their children who are most likely to pass on the family genes. AET has been used a great deal in studies dealing with relationships between fathers and sons, particularly as it relates to men’s sexuality and how that impacts the amount of affection a father shows to his son, the communicative behaviors involved in AET, and how the amount of affection that a father shows to his son correlates with the amount of affection that the son displays toward his children and the generations that follow.\n\n"}
{"id": "106139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106139", "title": "Alfred Schütz", "text": "Alfred Schütz\n\nAlfred Schutz (; born Alfred Schütz, ; 13 April 1899 – 20 May 1959) was an Austrian philosopher and social phenomenologist whose work bridged sociological and phenomenological traditions. Schutz is gradually being recognized as one of the twentieth century's leading philosophers of social science. He related Edmund Husserl's work to the social sciences, and influenced Max Weber's legacy of philosophical foundations for sociology and economics through Schutz's major work, \"Phenomenology of the Social World\".\n\nSchutz was born in Vienna, Austria, into an upper-middle-class Jewish family as an only child. Following his graduation from high school he was drafted into the Austrian army, where he quickly rose to the American equivalent rank of second lieutenant. His army regiment was dispatched to fight in a series of heavy battles on the Italian front (WWI).\n\nSchutz enrolled at the University of Vienna from where he received his law degree. During his time at the University of Vienna he also enrolled at the Viennese Academy of International Trade from 1919 to 1920 and adopted a concentration in International Law. During his time at the University of Vienna, Schutz went to lectures given by Max Weber, and felt that Weber had left the problem of meaning unanswered. As noted by Wagner (1983), Schutz's fascination with the problem of meaning was a result of his experience in combat, combined with returning to starving and economically decimated Vienna. In 1926 Schutz married Ilse Heim, after developing a well-established and prominent career in international banking. He became the chief financial officer for Reitler and Company, the Vienna banking firm. In 1933 the threat of Hitler's rise in Germany caused Schutz and other Viennese intellectuals to flee Austria in order to seek asylum in allied countries. Consequently, Schutz and his family relocated to Paris in 1938 in political exile. Schutz worked as an international lawyer for Reitler and Company, and moved to the United States in 1939, where he became a faculty member of The New School. He taught sociology and philosophy as well as serving as chair of the Philosophy department. Schutz is unique as a scholar of the social sciences in that he pursued a career in law for most of his life, while teaching part-time at the New School for Social Research in New York. Moreover, he produced key papers in phenomenological sociology that fill four volumes (published by Nijhoff, The Hague), while working full-time at the bank. Schutz received a substantial amount of assistance from his wife Ilse, who transcribed his working notes and letters from his taped dictations. Schutz died in New York City at the age of 60.\n\nWhile Schutz primarily focused on phenomenology and social science methodology his principal aim was to create a philosophical foundation for the social sciences. Schutz was strongly influenced by Ludwig von Mises, Henri Bergson, William James, and Edmund Husserl. Contrary to common belief, while Schutz's work paralleled George Herbert Mead’s analysis of the meanings within social interactions, Schutz was highly critical of Mead’s behavioristic approach. Although Schutz was never a student of Husserl he and colleague Felix Kaufmann intensively studied Husserl's work in order to seek a basis for the interpretive sociology derived from Max Weber. In 1932 Schutz’s efforts resulted in his first published book, \"Der sinnhafte Aufbau der sozialen Welt\" (literally, \"the meaningful construction of the social world\") which was published in English as \"The Phenomenology of the Social World\". Schutz took up the generic emphasis of phenomenology, arguing that everyday life – other than philosophical or scientific theories – is most important for analysis. The publication brought him to the attention of Husserl, whom he visited often after the publication and corresponded with until Husserl's death (1938). Even so, when Husserl asked Schutz to be his assistant, he was unable to accept the offer at Freiburg University for personal reasons.\n\nSchutz's main concerns were with how people grasp the consciousness of others while they live within their own stream of consciousness. He talked much about intersubjectivity, but in a larger sense. He used it to mean a concern with the social world, specifically the social nature of knowledge. A great deal of his work deals with the \"life world\". Within this, people create social reality under the constraints of preexisting social and cultural factors and structures. He was very focused on the \"dialectical relationship between the way people construct social reality and the obdurate social and cultural reality that they inherit from those who preceded them in the social world\".\n\nSchutz's writings had a lasting impact on sociology, both on phenomenological approaches to sociology (especially through the work of Thomas Luckmann and Peter L. Berger) and in ethnomethodology through the writings of Harold Garfinkel. Luckmann was heavily influenced by Schutz's work. Luckmann, a student of Schutz's (along with Peter L. Berger), ultimately finished Schutz's work on the structures of the Lifeworld after Schutz died by filling out his unfinished notes. Berger and Luckmann went on to use Schutz's work to further understand human culture and reality, through the development of a new form of the sociology of knowledge. As noted by Farganis (2011), Peter Berger is arguably the best-known living sociologist influenced by Schutz, owing his creation of social construction theory which explains how the processes of externalization, objectification, and internalization contribute to the social construction of reality.\n\nPhenomenology originated with Edmund Husserl. Schutz met Husserl and studied his work. Phenomenology is the study of things as they appear (phenomena). It is also often said to be descriptive rather than explanatory: a central task of phenomenology is to provide a clear, undistorted description of the ways things appear\". There are many assumptions behind phenomenology that help explain its creation. First, it rejects the concept of objective research. Phenomenologists would rather group presumptions through a process called \"phenomenological epoche\". Second, phenomenology believes that analyzing the daily human behavior will provide one with a comprehensive understanding of nature. The third assumption is that persons, not individuals, should be explored and questioned. Sociologically speaking, this is in part because persons can be better understood by the unique ways they reflect and symbolize the society he or she lives in. Fourth, phenomenologists prefer to gather “capta,” or \"conscious experience\", rather than traditional data. Finally, phenomenology is considered to be oriented on discovery, and therefore phenomenologists gather research using methods that are far less restricting than in other sciences.\n\nSocial phenomenology is the combination of the social construction of reality and ethnomethodology. It was concerned with how people use ordinary, everyday interactions to produce a feeling of reality and intersubjectivity. Most of Schutz's work concerned the methods used for the construction of reality through everyday experiences.\n\nAs noted by Farganis (2011) phenomenological sociology is characterized as particularly subjective in nature because its emphasis of understanding reality through the perspective of the acting subject rather than through the lens of the scientific observer. Rather than attempting to uncover and document the social structures which influence our social world Schutz and other sociological phenomenologists seek not only to identify the content of our consciousness related to our conception of the social reality of everyday life but also, how this reality comes to assume the form it is. In essence, Schutz and social phenomenologists are principally concerned with the happenings of everyday life or what Schutz refers to as the ‘life world’. As noted by Ritzer (2011) the life world “is an intersubjective world in which people both create social reality and are constrained by the preexisting social and cultural structures created by their predecessors.\" Within this world, relationships between the social and natural world are what come into doubt. There is this existence of meaning which comes into play yet most people simply accept the world how it is and never second guess the concept or problem of meaning.[14] Schutz delves even more into specific relationships such as the difference between intimate face-to-face relationships and distant and impersonal relationships.\n\nSchutz's division of Husserl's \"Lebenswelt\" (the mundane lifeworld) into four distinct sub-worlds is perhaps his most influential theoretical contribution. The theory of the lifeworld is that social experience creates a world that is separated between social reality that has been directly experienced and social reality that is on the horizon of direct experience. The former consisted of the \"Umwelt\" of what Schutz termed consociates or fellow-men – of the man who \"shares with me a community of space and a community of time\".\n\nIn contrast, those who Schutz did not deem his fellow-men, he put them in three classes: the world of contemporaries (Mitwelt), the world of predecessors (Vorwelt). and the world of successors (Folgewelt). The last two represent the past and the future, whereas one's contemporaries share a community of time, if not space, and are different from the predecessors and successors because it is possible for them to become fellow-men or consociates.\n\nSchutz was interested in documenting the transition from direct to indirect experience and the series of experiences in between. He also wanted to map the progressive anonymisation of the contemporaries (\"Mitwelt)\", which was a measurement of increasing anonymity of \"my absent friend, his brother whom he has described to me, the professor whose books I have read, the postal clerk, the Canadian Parliament, abstract entities like Canada herself, the rules of English grammar, or the basic principles of jurisprudence\". Schutz argued that the more one goes into the contemporary world, the more anonymous the contemporary inhabitants become, with the most anonymous being artifacts of any kind that hold meaning, context, and suggest there are unknown people.\n\nIn his later writings, Schutz explored how everyday social experiences that pertain to these dimensions are most often intertwined in varying degrees of anonymity. For instance, \"if in a face-to-face relationship with a friend I discuss a magazine article dealing with the attitude of the President and Congress toward China, I am in a relationship not only with the perhaps anonymous contemporary writer of the article but also with the contemporary individual or collective actors on the social scene designated by the terms, 'President', 'Congress', 'China'\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42346651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42346651", "title": "Alison McIntyre", "text": "Alison McIntyre\n\nAlison McIntyre is the Virginia Onderdonk ’29 Professor of Philosophy at Wellesley College. McIntyre received her bachelor's and master's degrees from Tufts University, before going on to receive a doctoral degree from Princeton.\n\nMcIntyre's research areas are varied, and include the philosophy of mind, moral theory, the history of moral philosophy, and 18th-century British moral psychology. Her current research is focused on the debates surrounding moral motivation and judgment that took place in Scotland, England, and Ireland, in the 17th and 18th centuries. McIntyre has also delved into issues of bioethics, specifically about the potential applications of the doctrine of double effect in end-of-life decision-making, specifically in the context of Vacco v. Quill and voluntary euthanasia. McIntyre believes that the difference between intentionality and foresight in cases of the doctrine of double effect shouldn't be rejected, but believes that most attempts to isolate the distinction merely lead to confusion.\n"}
{"id": "45243925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45243925", "title": "Aristides Baltas", "text": "Aristides Baltas\n\nAristides Baltas (; born 9 February 1943) is a philosopher of science and physicist who served as the Minister of Culture and Sports of Greece and as the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs in the cabinet of Alexis Tsipras from 27 January 2015 to 4 November 2016.\n\nHe is currently the Emeritus Professor of Philosophy of Science at the National Technical University of Athens and President of the Nicos Poulantzas Institute. In the Greek legislative election, September 2015, he was elected MP for the Attica constituency with Syriza.\n\nBaltas trained in electrical and mechanical engineering at the National Technical University of Athens (NTUA) from 1962 to 1967 before going on to complete a doctorate in theoretical physics under at University of Paris XI in 1971. His thesis title was \"La Neutrino-Production des Résonances Baryoniques dans le Modèle des Quarks\" (\"Neutrino Production of Baryonic Resonances in the Quark Model\"). In 1982, he returned to NTUA to become a lecturer at the Department of Physics. From 1984 to 1985 he was a visiting fellow at the Center for Philosophy of Science of the University of Pittsburgh, a capacity he later resumed in 2005–6. He was appointed assistant professor of philosophy and methodology of physics at NTUA in 1984, then associate professor of the philosophy of science in 1992 and professor in 2002.\n\nBaltas' research has dealt particularly with the epistemology of Louis Althusser, and more generally with the relationship between philosophy of science and epistemology and between analytic and continental philosophy. His work encompasses the fields of physics, mathematics, psychoanalysis, and historical materialism. Other philosophers studied by Baltas include Ludwig Wittgenstein, Friedrich Nietzsche, Baruch Spinoza, Jacques Derrida, John McDowell, and Walter Benjamin.\n\nIn 2002, Baltas was awarded the National Prize for Nonfiction for his book \"Objects and Aspects of Self\" (Αντικείμενα και όψεις εαυτού). In December 2010, he received the Xanthopoulos–Pneumatikos Award for Excellence in Academic Teaching.\n\nA founding member of the Coalition of the Radical Left (SYRIZA), in 2012 Baltas was a coordinating member of its policy planning committee. Following Syriza's victory in the Greek legislative election of January 2015, Baltas was appointed as Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs in the Tsipras Cabinet. Soon after entering office, Baltas stated that beyond the immediate objectives of relieving the humanitarian crisis in Greek schools and resolving the problem of \"eternal students\" who are forced to suspend their studies in order to find work to sustain themselves, his long-term goals as minister would be to restore the independence of secondary education from higher education, to abolish pan-Hellenic examinations, and to support free access to higher education.\n\n"}
{"id": "2921486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2921486", "title": "Augusto Vera", "text": "Augusto Vera\n\nAugusto Vera (4 May 181313 July 1885) was an Italian philosopher who followed Hegel's theories and translated many of his works.\n\nVera was born in Amelia in the province of Terni. He was educated in Rome and Paris, and, after teaching classics for some years in Geneva, held chairs of philosophy in various colleges in France. He was a philosophy teacher at the Lycée Victor-Duruy (Mont-de-Marsan) and subsequently was professor in Strasbourg and in Paris. He left Paris after the coup d'etat of 1851 and spent nine years in England. Attaching himself with enthusiasm to Hegel's system, Vera (who wrote fluently both in French and in English as well as in Italian) became widely influential in spreading a knowledge of the Hegelian doctrine, and became the chief representative of Italian Hegelianism.\n\nWithout any marked originality, his writings are distinguished by lucidity of exposition and genuine philosophic spirit. In 1860 Vera returned to Italy, where he was made professor of philosophy in the Royal Academy of Milan. In the following year he was transferred to Naples as professor of philosophy in the university of Naples upon Francesco de Sanctis' invitation. His \"Prolusioni alla Storia della Filosofia\" and \"Lezioni sulla Filosofia della Storia\" were connected with his professorial work, which was specially devoted to the history of philosophy and the philosophy of history. He kept his teaching position until his death in Naples.\n\nIt was during his studies, with his cousin in Paris, that he came to know about philosophy and through them he acquired knowledge of Hegelianism and it culminated during the events of the 1848-49 French revolution. In England he continued his studies of Hegelian philosophy. During his years in Naples, he would maintain relationships with the Philosophical Society of Berlin, which originally consisted of Hegelians, and kept up to date with both the German and the French Hegelian literature. As a teacher, he undertook the translation of Hegel's \"Introduzione alla filosofia\" (Introduction to philosophy) in French. A lot of his work on neo-Hegelian theories were undertaken with Bertrando Spaventa. Some works see the Italian Hegelian doctrine as having led to Italian Fascism.\n\nAmong his works may be mentioned:\nHis English works are:\nHe also published translations into French with commentaries of Hegel's works:\n"}
{"id": "445231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445231", "title": "Biodynamic agriculture", "text": "Biodynamic agriculture\n\nBiodynamic agriculture is a form of alternative agriculture very similar to organic farming, but it includes various esoteric concepts drawn from the ideas of Rudolf Steiner (1861–1925). Initially developed in 1924, it was the first of the organic agriculture movements. It treats soil fertility, plant growth, and livestock care as ecologically interrelated tasks, emphasizing spiritual and mystical perspectives.\n\nBiodynamics has much in common with other organic approaches – it emphasizes the use of manures and composts and excludes the use of artificial chemicals on soil and plants. Methods unique to the biodynamic approach include its treatment of animals, crops, and soil as a single system, an emphasis from its beginnings on local production and distribution systems, its use of traditional and development of new local breeds and varieties. Some methods use an astrological sowing and planting calendar. Biodynamic agriculture uses various herbal and mineral additives for compost additives and field sprays; these are sometimes prepared by controversial methods, such as burying ground quartz stuffed into the horn of a cow, which are said to harvest \"cosmic forces in the soil\", that are more akin to sympathetic magic than agronomy.\n\nAs of 2016 biodynamic techniques were used on 161,074 hectares in 60 countries. Germany accounts for 45% of the global total; the remainder average 1750 ha per country. Biodynamic methods of cultivating grapevines have been taken up by several notable vineyards. There are certification agencies for biodynamic products, most of which are members of the international biodynamics standards group Demeter International.\n\nNo difference in beneficial outcomes has been scientifically established between certified biodynamic agricultural techniques and similar organic and integrated farming practices. Biodynamic agriculture lacks strong scientific evidence for its efficacy and has been labeled a pseudoscience because of its overreliance upon esoteric knowledge and mystical beliefs.\n\nBiodynamics was the first modern organic agriculture. Its development began in 1924 with a series of eight lectures on agriculture given by philosopher Rudolf Steiner at Schloss Koberwitz in Silesia, Germany (now Kobierzyce in Poland). These lectures, the first known presentation of organic agriculture, were held in response to a request by farmers who noticed degraded soil conditions and a deterioration in the health and quality of crops and livestock resulting from the use of chemical fertilizers. The 111 attendees, less than half of whom were farmers, came from six countries, primarily Germany and Poland. The lectures were published in November 1924; the first English translation appeared in 1928 as \"The Agriculture Course\".\n\nSteiner emphasized that the methods he proposed should be tested experimentally. For this purpose, Steiner established a research group, the \"Agricultural Experimental Circle of Anthroposophical Farmers and Gardeners of the General Anthroposophical Society\". Between 1924 and 1939, this research group attracted about 800 members from around the world, including Europe, the Americas and Australasia. Another group, the \"Association for Research in Anthroposophical Agriculture\" (\"Versuchsring anthroposophischer Landwirte\"), directed by the German agronomist Erhard Bartsch, was formed to test the effects of biodynamic methods on the life and health of soil, plants and animals; the group published a monthly journal, \"Demeter\". Bartsch was also instrumental in developing a sales organisation for biodynamic products, Demeter, which still exists today. The Research Association was renamed the Imperial Association for Biodynamic Agriculture (\"Reichsverband für biologisch-dynamische Wirtschaftsweise\") in 1933. It was dissolved by the National Socialist regime in 1941. In 1931 the association had 250 members in Germany, 109 in Switzerland, 104 in other European countries and 24 outside Europe. The oldest biodynamic farms are the Wurzerhof in Austria and Marienhöhe in Germany.\n\nIn 1938, Ehrenfried Pfeiffer's text, \"Bio-Dynamic Farming and Gardening\", was published in five languages – English, Dutch, Italian, French, and German; this became the standard work in the field for several decades. In July 1939, at the invitation of Walter James, 4th Baron Northbourne, Pfeiffer travelled to the UK and presented the Betteshanger Summer School and Conference on Biodynamic Farming at Northbourne's farm in Kent. The conference has been described as the 'missing link' between biodynamic agriculture and organic farming because, in the year after Betteshanger, Northbourne published his manifesto of organic farming, \"Look to the Land\", in which he coined the term 'organic farming' and praised the methods of Rudolf Steiner. In the 1950s, Hans Mueller was encouraged by Steiner's work to create the organic-biological farming method in Switzerland; this later developed to become the largest certifier of organic products in Europe, \"Bioland\".\n\nToday biodynamics is practiced in more than 50 countries worldwide and in a variety of circumstances, ranging from temperate arable farming, viticulture in France, cotton production in Egypt, to silkworm breeding in China. Demeter International is the primary certification agency for farms and gardens using the methods.\n\n\nIn common with other forms of organic agriculture, biodynamic agriculture uses management practices that are intended to \"restore, maintain and enhance ecological harmony.\" Central features include crop diversification, the avoidance of chemical soil treatments and off-farm inputs generally, decentralized production and distribution, and the consideration of celestial and terrestrial influences on biological organisms. The Demeter Association recommends that \"(a) minimum of ten percent of the total farm acreage be set aside as a biodiversity preserve. That may include but is not limited to forests, wetlands, riparian corridors, and intentionally planted insectaries. Diversity in crop rotation and perennial planting is required: no annual crop can be planted in the same field for more than two years in succession. Bare tillage year round is prohibited so land needs to maintain adequate green cover.\"\n\nThe Demeter Association also recommends that the individual design of the land \"by the farmer, as determined by site conditions, is one of the basic tenets of biodynamic agriculture. This principle emphasizes that humans have a responsibility for the development of their ecological and social environment which goes beyond economic aims and the principles of descriptive ecology.\" Crops, livestock, and farmer, and \"the entire socioeconomic environment\" form a unique interaction, which biodynamic farming tries to \"actively shape ...through a variety of management practices. The prime objective is always to encourage healthy conditions for life\": soil fertility, plant and animal health, and product quality. \"The farmer seeks to enhance and support the forces of nature that lead to healthy crops, and rejects farm management practices that damage the environment, soil plant, animal or human health...the farm is conceived of as an organism, a self-contained entity with its own individuality,\" holistically conceived and self-sustaining. \"Disease and insect control are addressed through botanical species diversity, predator habitat, balanced crop nutrition, and attention to light penetration and airflow. Weed control emphasizes prevention, including timing of planting, mulching, and identifying and avoiding the spread of invasive weed species.\"\n\nBiodynamic agriculture differs from many forms of organic agriculture in its spiritual, mystical, and astrological orientation. It shares a spiritual focus, as well as its view toward improving humanity, with the \"nature farming\" movement in Japan. Important features include the use of livestock manures to sustain plant growth (recycling of nutrients), maintenance and improvement of soil quality, and the health and well being of crops and animals. Cover crops, green manures and crop rotations are used extensively and the farms to foster the diversity of plant and animal life, and to enhance the biological cycles and the biological activity of the soil.\n\nBiodynamic farms often have a cultural component and encourage local community, both through developing local sales and through on-farm community building activities. Some biodynamic farms use the Community Supported Agriculture model, which has connections with social threefolding.\n\nCompared to non-organic agriculture, BD farming practices have been found to be more resilient to environmental challenges, to foster a diverse biosphere, and to be more energy efficient, factors Eric Lichtfouse describes being of increasing importance in the face of climate change, energy scarcity and population growth.\n\nIn his \"agricultural course\" Steiner prescribed nine different preparations to aid fertilization, and described how these were to be prepared. Steiner believed that these preparations mediated terrestrial and cosmic forces into the soil. The prepared substances are numbered 500 through 508, where the first two are used for preparing fields, and seven are used for making compost. A long term trial (DOK experiment) evaluating the biodynamic farming system in comparison with organic and conventional farming systems, found that both organic farming and biodynamic farming resulted in enhanced soil properties, but had lower yields than conventional farming. Regarding compost development beyond accelerating the initial phase of composting, some positive effects have been noted:\n\nAlthough the preparations have direct nutrient values, their purpose in biodynamics is to support the self-regulating capacities of the soil biota in the case of 500 and 501 and the biological life resident in the composting organics, as well as the mature compost itself, in the others.\n\nField preparations, for stimulating humus formation:\n\nThe application rate of the biodynamic field spray preparations (i.e., 500 and 501) are 300 grams per hectare of horn manure and 5 grams per hectare of horn silica. These are made by stirring the ingredients into 20-50 liters of water per hectare for an hour, using a prescribed method.\n\nCompost preparations, used for preparing compost, employ herbs which are frequently used in medicinal remedies. Many of the same herbs are used in organic practices to make foliar fertilizers, turned into the soil as green manure, or in composting. The preparations include:\n\nThe approach considers that there are lunar and astrological influences on soil and plant development—for example, choosing to plant, cultivate or harvest various crops based on both the phase of the moon and the zodiacal constellation the moon is passing through, and also depending on whether the crop is the root, leaf, flower, or fruit of the plant. This aspect of biodynamics has been termed \"astrological\" in nature.\n\nBiodynamic agriculture has focused on the open pollination of seeds (with farmers thereby generally growing their own seed) and the development of locally adapted varieties.\n\nThe Demeter biodynamic certification system established in 1924 was the first certification and labelling system for organic production. As of 2018, to receive certification as biodynamic, the farm must meet the following standards: agronomic guidelines, greenhouse management, structural components, livestock guidelines, and post-harvest handling and processing procedures.\n\nThe term \"Biodynamic\" is a trademark held by the Demeter association of biodynamic farmers for the purpose of maintaining production standards used both in farming and processing foodstuffs. The trademark is intended to protect both the consumer and the producers of biodynamic produce. Demeter International an organization of member countries; each country has its own Demeter organization which is required to meet international production standards (but can also exceed them). The original Demeter organization was founded in 1928; the U.S. Demeter Association was formed in the 1980s and certified its first farm in 1982. In France, Biodivin certifies biodynamic wine. In Egypt, SEKEM has created the Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA), an association that provides training for farmers to become certified. As of 2006, more than 200 wineries worldwide were certified as biodynamic; numerous other wineries employ biodynamic methods to a greater or lesser extent.\n\nResearch into biodynamic farming has been complicated by the difficulty of isolating the distinctively biodynamic aspects when conducting comparative trials. Consequently, there is no strong body of material that provides evidence of any specific effect.\n\nSince biodynamic farming is a form of organic farming, it can be generally assumed to share its characteristics, including \"less stressed soils and thus diverse and highly interrelated soil communities\".\n\nA 2009/2011 review found that biodynamically cultivated fields:\n\nBoth factors were similar to the result in organically cultivated fields.\n\nIn a 2002 newspaper editorial, Peter Treue, agricultural researcher at the University of Kiel, characterized biodynamics as pseudoscience and argued that similar or equal results can be obtained using standard organic farming principles. He wrote that some biodynamic preparations more resemble alchemy or magic akin to geomancy.\n\nIn a 1994 analysis, Holger Kirchmann, a soil researcher with the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, concluded that Steiner's instructions were occult and dogmatic, and cannot contribute to the development of alternative or sustainable agriculture. According to Kirchmann, many of Steiner's statements are not provable because scientifically clear hypotheses cannot be made from his descriptions. Kirchmann asserted that when methods of biodynamic agriculture were tested scientifically, the results were unconvincing. Further, in a 2004 overview of biodynamic agriculture, Linda Chalker-Scott, a researcher at Washington State University, characterized biodynamics as pseudoscience, writing that Steiner did not use scientific methods to formulate his theory of biodynamics, and that the later addition of valid organic farming techniques has \"muddled the discussion\" of Steiner's original idea. Based on the scant scientific testing of biodynamics, Chalker-Scott concluded \"no evidence exists\" that homeopathic preparations improve the soil.\n\nIn Michael Shermer's \"The Skeptic Encyclopedia of Pseudoscience\", Dan Dugan says that the way biodynamic preparations are supposed to be implemented are formulated solely on the basis of Steiner's \"own insight\". Skeptic Brian Dunning writes \"the best way to think of 'biodynamic agriculture' would be as a magic spell cast over an entire farm. Biodynamics sees an entire farm as a single organism, with something that they call a life force.\"\n\nFlorian Leiber, Nikolai Fuchs and Hartmut Spieß, researchers at the Goetheanum, have defended the principles of biodynamics and suggested that critiques of biodynamic agriculture which deny it scientific credibility are \"not in keeping with the facts...as they take no notice of large areas of biodynamic management and research.\" Biodynamic farmers are \"charged with developing a continuous dialogue between biodynamic science and the natural sciences \"sensu stricto\",\" despite important differences in paradigms, world views, and value systems.\n\nPhilosopher of science Michael Ruse has written that followers of biodynamic agriculture rather enjoy the scientific marginalisation that comes from its pseudoscientific basis, revelling both in its esoteric aspects and the impression that they were in the vanguard of the wider anti-science sentiment that has grown in opposition to modern methods such as genetic modification.\n\nSteiners theory was similar to those of the agricultural scientist Richard Krzymowski, who was teaching in Breslau since 1922. The environmental scientist Frank M. Rauch mentioned in 1995, concerning the reprint of a book from Raoul Heinrich Francé, another source probably used by Steiner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4546926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4546926", "title": "Cao Bá Quát", "text": "Cao Bá Quát\n\nCao Bá Quát (, 1809–1855) was a Vietnamese poet and revolutionary who led a peasant uprising against Emperor Tự Đức. He was either executed or killed in battle. Many of his poems were destroyed, but about 1400 (most written in Han Tu) survive. His poems treat Buddhism sceptically.\n\nCao Bá Quát, a nineteenth-century literatus, was born in the year 1809 in Phu Thi Village That time period belonged to the Nguyễn dynasty under the regime of King Minh Menh, Thieu Tri, and Tu Duc. At a young age, Cao Bao Quat exhibited intelligence that exceeded his age group; by the age of five, he was able to read the Tam Tu Kinh. Cao Tuu Chieu, his father, was a Confucian and teacher\n\nIt had been part of his family tradition to enroll in the competition-examination to gain a position in the mandarin. In 1831, Cao Ba Quat entered the Thi Huong examinations, which was held in Hanoi. Initially he was ranked second among the prosperous candidates, but after his exam was reviewed by the Court, it was declared that he had failed due to violating examination rules. There was a mandatory stylistic and parameters that were to be followed by the candidates and it has been speculated that Cao Ba Quat was unable to follow the four forms of writing known as Chan, Thao, Trien, Le.\n\nCao Bá Quát's talent did not go unnoticed; after 10 years of consecutive failures, Cao Bá Quát was called to the capital Hue. By the recommendation of Bac Ninh Province’s governor, Cao Bao Quat was appointed as a low-rank mandarin in the Ministry of Rites and became the primary examiner in the Thua Thien Examination Compound. Cao Bá Quát held that position for a short period of time; while marking exam papers that held potential, Cao Bao Quat had adjusted their content as they contained tabooed names. This information was disclosed and Cao Bao Quat lost his post and exiled to Da Nang. After his mission to Singapore led by Dao Tri Phu, Cao Bá Quát was rehabilitated and earned the position of Agency Director at the Court. In 1847, he was invited to the Academy of Hue Court.\n\nCao Bá Quát was well known for his eccentric personality; he chose to continue to live a poor lifestyle and wore battered clothing. Through his literature work, Cao Bá Quát expressed his discontent on how the dignity of humans was at loss caused by society’s desire for fame and fortune. Emperor Tự Đức was a knowledgeable literature himself and had recognized Cao Bao Quat for his expertise. Emperor Tự Đức's affliction with Cao Bá Quát was an ongoing battle; as disgraceful and arrogant Cao Bao Quat was, Emperor Tu Duc did not hide his admiration for him.\n\nCao Bá Quát continued his rebellion against Emperor Tự Đức and his court through his poems that was circulated amongst the weak and vulnerable. In 1855, Cao Bá Quát was mandated to combat in the Yên Sơn District. The controversy of Cao Bao Quat’s death is a debate until this day. It has been noted that Cao Bá Quát died during battle, but it has been theorized his death may have been deliberated due to his defiance against the Emperor. Due to Cao Bá Quát’s failure in battle, Emperor Tự Đức ordered to execute all generations of his family. Cao Bá Quát is a revolutionist that has gained respect by many due to his indomitable attitude.\n"}
{"id": "14121015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14121015", "title": "Carlos Castrodeza", "text": "Carlos Castrodeza\n\nCarlos Castrodeza Ruíz de la Cuesta (1945 – April 2012) was a Spanish biologist and philosopher. He taught philosophy of science at Madrid's Complutense University.\n\nAuthority on Darwin and Darwinism, Castrodeza’s thought focuses on bioethical problems from an ethological viewpoint and on scientific problems (epistemological) and ideologies from a naturalistic perspective.\nCastrodeza's Darwinian trilogy Biology's Deep Ways \"Razón biológica\" (Biological Reason), \"Nihilismo y supervivencia\" (Nihilism and Survival) y \"La darwinización del mundo\" (The Darwinization of the World) intends to show how little control we have over our future despite our profound preoccupation for things past. For Castrodeza ethological considerations referring to behavioural mental patterns concerning man's philosophical, theological and scientific activities have a lot to say as to how we build the world in which we strive to survive. These patterns are not necessarily directly adaptative, in fact they are part of the package deal integrated in our overall strategy for survival. Naturally this strategy need not be the proper one in the sense that we may not meet adequately after all the survival challenges we have in front of us. In fact nothing guaranties our survival and we may perfectly be in spite of our mental sophistication on the wrong track. Our wishes and intentions may have little to do with the best way to survive in the long run and may be at bottom we do not even care. We act and hope for the best on the basis of our experience which is not very much to go by.\n\n\n\n\n\nCastrodeza has also published in sites such as \"Annals of Science\" or \"ISIS\" and has been for a time in the Editorial Board of \"History and Philosophy of the Biological Sciences\"(1985–90)\n"}
{"id": "5683120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5683120", "title": "Classic of Filial Piety", "text": "Classic of Filial Piety\n\nThe Classic of Filial Piety, also known by its Chinese name as the Xiaojing, is a Confucian classic treatise giving advice on filial piety: that is, how to behave towards a senior such as a father, an elder brother, or ruler.\n\nThis document probably dates to the 4th century BC. It is not known who actually wrote the document. It is attributed to a conversation between Confucius and his disciple Zengzi. A 12th-century author named He Yin claimed: \"The \"Classic of Filial Piety\" was not made by Zengzi himself. When he retired from his conversation (or conversations) with Kung-ne on the subject of Filial Piety, he repeated to the disciples of his own school what (the master) had said, and they classified the sayings, and formed the treatise.\"\n\nAs the title suggests, the text elaborates on filial piety, which is a core Confucian value. The text argues that if a person loves and serves their parents then they will do the same for their rulers, leading to a harmonious society. For example,\n\nThe \"Classic of Filial Piety\" occupied an important position in classical education as one of the most popular foundational texts through to late imperial China. The text was used in elementary and moral education together with the Analects, Elementary Learning, and the Biographies of Exemplary Women. Study of the text was also mentioned in epitaphs as an indication of a person's good character. It was a practice to read aloud the text when mourning one's parents. The text was also important politically, partly because filial piety was both a means of demonstrating moral virtue and entering officialdom for those with family connections to the imperial court. The text was important in Neo-Confucianism, being quoted by the influential Song figure Zhu Xi.\n\nMany Japanese translations of the \"Xiaojing\" exist. The following are the primary Western language translations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34505545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34505545", "title": "Dawes Hicks", "text": "Dawes Hicks\n\nGeorge Dawes Hicks FBA (14 September 1862 – 16 February 1941) was a British philosopher who was the first Professor of Moral Philosophy at University College, London from 1904 until 1928 and professor emeritus thereafter until his death.\n\nHicks, eldest son of solicitor Christopher Hicks, was born in Shrewsbury on 14 September 1862 and educated at the Royal Grammar School, Guildford He initially went on to study law within his father's legal practice. Hicks won a scholarship and went, in 1884, to Owens College Manchester to study philosophy (and gain some knowledge of the natural sciences). He did so under Robert Adamson \"whose philosophical scholarship and acuteness exercised the most radical and lasting effect upon his. pupil's life and teaching\". Hicks graduated in 1888 with first class honours. Hicks then went to Manchester College, Oxford and followed the lectures of Wallace, Nettleship. and Cook Wilson.\n\nElected a Hibbert Scholar 1891-96, Hicks did further research at the University of Leipzig under Wundt, Heinze, and Volelt and assisted Meumann in his experimental investigations on apprehension of time. Hicks also advanced his earlier studies in physiology but concentrated his greater efforts on a detailed textual study of Kant (and mastering the relevant literature). He gained his PhD at Leipzig in 1896 with a \"\" which was to be published the following year.\n\nOn his return from Germany in 1897 Hicks became minister of Unity Church in Islington until 1903, and lectured for the London School of Ethics and Sociology. In 1904 he was made Litt.D. by Manchester University and was appointed to the Chair of Moral Philosophy. at University College, London (UCL). Hicks was the first person to fill the position which had lain vacant since UCL first advertised for two Chairs in philosophy in 1827. Carveth Read then the Grote Professor of Mind and Logic, as Jonathan Wolff reports, persuaded the College to make such an appointment and thus fulfill \"for the first time the original conception of the Department\". (Wollf notes that Hicks is sometimes referred to as a Grote Professor, but that he was never given the title and, indeed may not have been entitled to hold it, due to his involvement in religious ministry.)\n\nDuring his time at UCL, Hicks continued to live, at least party, in Cambridge where he regularly lectured at the university, under the auspices of the Faculty of Moral Science, on Psychology and on the Philosophy of Kant (and examined in the Moral Sciences Tripos on the former). He also \"as a labour of love\" gave annual lectures at Carmarthen College (a training college for teachers at religious schools) which were to be published in 1928 under the title \"Ways towards the Spiritual Life\". (Hicks was also for thirty years a trustee of Dr. Williams's Library.)\n\nS.V. Keeling (whose early studies at UCL were directed under Hick's advisement and who would later return there as an MA student and then as a lecturer during his tenure) describes Hicks as being, as a teacher \"a man of single-mind, wholly engrossed in philosophy\". Keeling reports that Hicks believed that philosophy \"as no other subject, could impart to.. students an influence and a training such as would render them habitually reflective about their existence and destiny\". Hicks \"ever saw clearly that the spiritual value of philosophical studies far outweighed their academic importance\" but denied \"that philosophy could legitimately serve as a substitute for religion or for religious faith\". Hick's significant efforts and influence as a teacher at UCL are testified to by Keeling, de Burgh and Stebbing alike and reported on by Wolf.\n\nHaving already been secretary of the Aristotelian Society for many years, Hicks was made its president in 1913 and was elected a fellow of the British Academy in 1927. He retired from UCL the following year and thereafter lived entirely in Cambridge but continued his long serving work as a sub-editor of the Hibbert Journal to his sick bed and, as Stebbing reports, \"was writing his famous 'Philosophical Survey' for that \"Journal\" when death came, rather suddenly at the end\" on 16 January 1941.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48972423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48972423", "title": "Drexel 5856", "text": "Drexel 5856\n\nDrexel 5856 is a music manuscript containing works composed by George Frideric Handel. It is a significant primary source of the composer's work, having been copied by one of Handel's frequent copyists, John Christopher Smith, possibly as a presentation copy.\n\nBelonging to the New York Public Library, it forms part of the Music Division's Drexel Collection, located at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. Following traditional library practice, its name is derived from its call number.\n\nDrexel 5856 dates from 1720-1721. Most of Handel's keyboard music was composed in the decade 1710-1720, an observation we know from a study of his handwriting and paper studies. John Christopher Smith became Handel's copyist beginning in the years 1716-1717. Along with two other manuscript, Terence Best surmises that Drexel 5856 was prepared for a patron who was a friend of the composer.\n\nThe earliest known owner of Drexel 5856 was the composer John Stafford Smith, who also was as an antiquarian and collector of manuscripts. He presented it as a gift to Charles Wesley, possibly in 1813. This much of the provenance is known from Wesley's inscription on the volume's initial leaf:\n\nBelow Wesley's writing is an inscription from the subsequent owner Edward Francis Rimbault, who wrote:\n\nRimbault stated that he believed the manuscript to have been copied for Princess Amelia of Great Britain. He based this idea on having seen a book \"Books in ye closet at Gunnersbury.\" (No contemporary musicologists repeat this assertion. Rimbault's findings are occasionally faulty; see Drexel 4180—4185 for examples of his conclusions that are consider doubtful.)\n\nAfter Rimbault's death in 1876, the manuscript was listed as lot 1366 in the 1877 auction catalog of his estate (the number 1366 can be seen in the upper left corner of the initial leaf). The manuscript was one of about 600 lots purchased by Philadelphia-born financier Joseph W. Drexel, who had already amassed a large music library. Upon Drexel's death, he bequeathed his music library to The Lenox Library. When the Lenox Library merged with the Astor Library to become the New York Public Library, the Drexel Collection became the basis for one of its founding units, the Music Division. Today, Drexel 5856 is part of the Drexel Collection in the Music Division, now located at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center.\n\nAlthough no scholars have written about the manuscript as a whole, the editors of the Hallische Händel-Ausgabe were well-aware of Drexel 5856. It is included in a list of significant sources of Handel's keyboard works in the Händel-Werke-Verzeichnis, the thematic catalog of Handel's works. The thematic catalog attests that Drexel 5856 was used in editing the critical editions of those works included in the manuscript.\n\nChristopher Hogwood consulted the manuscript when working on his book \"Handel : Water Music and Music for the Royal Fireworks\".\n\nIn his review of a 1986 edition of Handel's harpsichord suites, Terence Best criticized the editor for not including \"important\" sources, mentioning Drexel 5856 as one of those sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33744845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33744845", "title": "Environmental inequality in the United Kingdom", "text": "Environmental inequality in the United Kingdom\n\nEnvironmental inequality in the United Kingdom is the way in which the quality of the environment differs between different communities in the UK. These differences are felt across a number of aspects of the environment, including air pollution, access to green space and exposure to flood risk.\n\nThe Environment Agency, a British non-departmental public body of the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), defines 'environmental inequality' as follows: 'To observe or claim an environmental inequality is to point out that an aspect of the environment is distributed unevenly amongst different social groups (differentiated by social class, ethnicity, gender, age, location, etc.)'.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Research Network (SDRN) define environmental inequality as follows: 'Environmental inequality refers to the unequal distribution of environmental risks and hazards and access to environmental goods and services.'\n\nGordon Walker (Department of Geography, Lancaster Environment Centre, Lancaster University and Malcolm Eames (University of Cardiff) define 'environmental inequality' as 'covering a wide range of questions of difference or unevenness, including:\n\n\nSociologist Liam Downey (2005) has distinguished five different ways of defining environmental inequality:\n\ni) Intentional racism definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise when environmental hazards are intentionally placed in minority neighbourhoods by private companies.\n\nii) Disparate exposure definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise 'when members of a specific social group are more highly exposed to some set of environmental pollutants than we would expect if group members were randomly distributed across residential space'.\n\niii) Disparate health impact definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise 'when the negative health effects of residential proximity or exposure to environmental hazards are distributed unequally across social groups.'\n\niv) Disparate social impacts definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise 'when members of a specific social group are more likely to live in environmentally hazardous neighborhoods than we would expect if group members were randomly distributed across residential space.'\n\nv) Relative distribution of burdens versus benefits definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise when groups that receive greater benefits from capitalist social relations (according to proponents of this definition, this means whites and the middle and upper classes) are less burdened by industrial pollution than groups that receive fewer benefits from capitalist social relations (according to proponents of this definition, this means people of colour, the poor and the working classes).\n\nThe concept of environmental inequality emerged in the context of the movement for Environmental Justice. The Environmental Justice movement originated in the US in the 1980s in response to concerns about communities from poor, black and minority ethnic environments being disproportionately affected by environmental issues and excluded from environmental decision-making.\n\nMuch initial progress on promoting an Environmental Justice agenda in the UK was made in Scotland, beginning with a speech made by Jack McConnell, First Minister of the Scottish Executive in 2002. McConnell said: '... the reality is that the people who have the most urgent environmental concerns in Scotland are those who daily cope with the consequences of a poor quality of life, and live in a rotten environment – close to industrial pollution, plagued by vehicle emissions, streets filled by litter and walls covered in graffiti. This is true for Scotland and also true elsewhere in the world. These are circumstances which would not be acceptable to better off communities in our society, and those who have to endure such environments in which to bring up a family, or grow old themselves are being denied environmental justice.'\n\nFollowing this speech, and in light of Environmental Justice campaigning by Friends of the Earth Scotland, references to Environmental Justice have been made in several Scottish policy documents ( e.g. Scottish Executive 2002c, 2003, 2003a (the Partnership Agreement); Scottish Executive Development Department, 2001, 2003, 2004, and 2005). The Scottish Executive, in 2005, commissioned research into ways of making environmental information more accessible to the public, and has also recently commissioned a study that investigates the social impacts of flooding.\n\nAn Environmental Justice agenda has also been emerging in England since the late 1990s. In 1999, Environment Minister Michael Meacher wrote, in a foreword to 'Equality and the Environment' by Brenda Boardman: 'environmental problems are serious and impact most heavily on the most vulnerable members of society: the old, the very young and the poor.' In a 2001 speech, Prime Minister Tony Blair spoke about the need to address environmental issues such as access to green space and air quality in deprived urban areas and in a speech given to the UN in New York, 2007, Prime Minister Gordon Brown said that 'the consequences of climate change will be disproportionately felt by the poorest who are least responsible for it – making the issue of climate change one of justice as much as economic development...economic progress social justice and environmental care now go together.'\n\nThe presence of this agenda became clear at a policy level in England, in DEFRA's 1999 Sustainable Development Strategy 'A Better Life', in which there was a focus on access to environmental information, decision making and justice. The Environmental Justice theme was evident again in the 2004 Sustainable Development Strategy, which commissioned a public consultation on issues around environmental justice and equality. Further, in 2003, the government's Social Exclusion Unit published a report that examined issues around inequalities in transport and pollution. One governmental actor involved in pushing forward the Environmental Justice agenda was The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. In 2004, it included environmental factors in its indices of deprivation and, in 2005, it commissioned research into the links between social and economic conditions and environmental quality. The UK Environmental Justice agenda was also taken on by the government's Sustainable Development Commission (SDC). In their November 2001 review of the UK's Sustainable Development Strategy, SDC approached issues of regeneration, poverty and the environment with an environmental justice perspective, and in their 2002 report 'Vision for Sustainable Regeneration, Environment and Poverty', SDC stressed the need for a new approach to sustainable regeneration that acknowledges the importance of environmental inequalities and the links between poverty and the environment.\n\nThe discourse around environmental justice in the UK is often framed in terms of 'environmental equality', following DEFRA's decision to use environmental equality as one of its sustainable development indicators.\n\nThe Environment Agency states that 'People who are socially and economically disadvantaged often live in the worst environments. For example, those living in the most deprived parts of England experience the worst air quality and have less access to green space and adequate housing. These problems can affect people's health and well being and can add to the burden of social and economic deprivation. They can also limit the opportunities available for people to improve their lives and undermine attempts to renew local neighbourhoods. Those affected tend to be the most vulnerable and excluded in society.'\n\nThere is also evidence that people from BME (black and minority ethnic) backgrounds suffer the worst environmental conditions, and are excluded from environmental decision-making. UK NGO and think-tank Capacity Global, in 'BMEs – Tackling Social and Environmental Justice', argue that several barriers exist, which hinder BAME communities' action on tackling environmental problems.\n\nThe most affluent 20 per cent of council wards have five times the amount of parks or general green space (excluding gardens) per person than the most deprived 10 per cent of wards. Wards with a population with fewer than 2% black and minority ethnic residents have six times as many parks and eleven times more public green space as wards where more than 40 per cent of the population are people from black and minority ethnic groups.\n\nAccording to a 2011 DEFRA White Paper on the Natural Environment, people in deprived areas are nearly six times less likely than those in affluent ones to describe their area as 'green', and 'those living in deprived areas, minority ethnic communities, elderly people and those with disabilities have less access to green spaces or tend to use them less.' This paper also noted that the frequency of exposure to the natural environment (incorporating a broad array of living things including wildlife, forests, rivers, streams, lakes, seas, countryside, farmed land and urban green space) is 'significantly lower' amongst those aged above 65, BME populations and those on low incomes (members of DE socioeconomic groups).\n\nAccording to the government's Forestry Commission, several factors interact to prevent black and minority ethnic groups from having the same access to woodland as other groups. These are: economic factors; lack of awareness, familiarity, knowledge, confidence or interest; cultural attitudes and preferences; feeling unwelcome and out of place.\n\nDeprived communities are more exposed to flood risk, with eight times more people in the most deprived 10% of the population living in tidal floodplains than the least deprived 10%. People in deciles 1 and 2 (decile 1 being the most deprived 10% of the population and decile 2 the second most deprived 10%) are 47 per cent more likely to be living at risk of flooding than the rest of the population for zone 2 floodrisk areas, and 62% more likely for zone 3.\n\nThe worst levels of air pollution are experienced by people in the most deprived 10% areas in England. These people are also subject to 41% higher concentrations of nitrogen dioxide from transport and industry than the average. The average black or black-British African in the UK person is exposed to 27.25 micrograms per cubic metre of harmful pollutant PM10. This is over 28% higher than the average urban white person.\n\nA 1999 Friends of the Earth report found that 82% of all carcinogenic chemical emissions were released by factories in the most deprived 20% wards. Further, the report suggested that because 70% of all people from ethnic minorities in the UK live in the 88 most deprived wards, this exposure to harmful chemicals disproportionately affects these people.\n\nOver a quarter of child pedestrian casualties happen in the most deprived 10% of wards. In Wales, children and people aged over 65 are twice as likely to be injured by motor vehicles in deprived areas than in more advantaged areas.\n\nAn investigation by the Environment Agency into Environmental Justice in South Yorkshire revealed that in South Yorkshire, people in decile 1 are twice as likely to be living next to a recycling site, a waste transfer site or a landfill site as the rest of the population and three times more likely to be living near to an amenity site. In the UK as a whole, deprived communities are more likely to live near waste sites except landfill sites, where it is the least deprived populations that are located nearby.\n\nInnospec, a company based in Ellesmere Port, is the last remaining manufacturer of tetraethyl lead in the world. The product is banned for general sale in the UK, but has been exported to countries such as Afghanistan, Burma, Iraq and Yemen. The firm has admitted paying bribes to foreign officials. Journalist George Monbiot has argued that Innospec was let off lightly for the bribery and has termed the continued permissiveness in allowing Innospec to export its product as 'environmental racism'.\n\nAs for the causes of environmental inequalities in the UK, the Environment Agency writes: 'The causes of these inequalities are often complex and long-standing. Some problems are due to the historical location of industry and communities; others are the result of the impacts of new developments such as traffic. Often these environmental problems are caused by the actions of others who do not live in the affected community. Often those most affected have not been involved in the decisions that affect the quality of their environment.' Environmental equity advocates often argue that environmental inequalities are entrenched due to the fact that the vulnerable communities exposed to environmental burdens lack the means necessary to change their situation due to factors such as limited economic means, exclusion from decision-making processes and institutionalised racism.\n\nThe UK government has included environmental equality as one of its sustainable development indicators since the establishment of these indicators in 1992. Further, DEFRA have incorporated an environmental inequalities analysis into its work, and the Environment Agency have published several reports on environmental inequality.\n\nIn Wales, action around environmental inequalities has primarily been coordinated through the Welsh Assembly's Community First initiative, which has attempted to enable deprived communities to take action themselves on sustainable development issues, with a particular focus on health inequalities and the health benefits of access to environmental goods. The Welsh Assembly have recognised the environmental aspects of deprivation, incorporating this into its 2008 index of multiple deprivation.\n\nSeveral UK academics have published widely around environmental inequalities. Academics working on environmental inequalities include Gordon Walker of Lancaster University and Professor Malcolm Eames of Cardiff University. In 2006, Brunel University and Lancaster University organised a series of seminars on environmental inequalities. This was supported by the Economic & Social Research Council, the Natural Environment Research Council, the Sustainable Development Research Council, the Environment Agency and DEFRA.\n\nThe following UK NGOs work on issues around environmental inequalities:\n\n"}
{"id": "21084434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21084434", "title": "Epistemological particularism", "text": "Epistemological particularism\n\nEpistemological particularism is the belief that one can know something without knowing how one knows that thing. By this understanding, one's knowledge is justified before one knows how such belief could be justified. Taking this as a philosophical approach, one would ask the question \"What do we know?\" before asking \"How do we know?\" The term appears in Roderick Chisholm's \"The Problem of the Criterion\", and in the work of his student, Ernest Sosa (\"The Raft and the Pyramid: Coherence versus Foundations in the Theory of Knowledge\"). Particularism is contrasted with Methodism, which answers the latter question before the former. Since the question \"What do we know\" implies that we know, particularism is considered fundamentally anti-skeptical, and was ridiculed by Kant in the \"Prolegomena\".\n"}
{"id": "21946846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21946846", "title": "Ferdinand Eckstein", "text": "Ferdinand Eckstein\n\nFerdinand Eckstein (1790–1861), Baron d'Eckstein, was a philosopher and playwright.\n\nHe was born in Copenhagen as the son of a German Jew who had converted to Lutheran Protestantism. Eckstein converted to Catholicism in Rome in 1807 under the influence of Friedrich Schlegel, and settled in France, after Napoleon's defeat. He worked from 1815 to 1830 as a police-inspector, and was an advocate of religious and civil liberty.\n\nEckstein was an Orientalist who believed that the study of Eastern texts and languages was the most important intellectual pursuit of his time. Nicknamed \"Baron Sanskrit\", he thought that God's revelation in its purest form could be found in the texts of ancient India.\n\nEckstein worked with Nodier, Hugo, Abel de Rémusat, Chateaubriand, Alexandre Guiraud and Delphine Gay in various literary enterprises and founded his own newspaper, \"The Catholic\" (1826-9), where he advocated basing of metaphysics in history supported by linguistics, philology and mythography.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13427432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13427432", "title": "Frances Kamm", "text": "Frances Kamm\n\nFrances Myrna Kamm () is an American philosopher specialising in normative and applied ethics. At Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Kamm is currently the Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and Professor of Philosophy in the Faculty of Arts & Sciences. \n\nKamm studied at Barnard College, receiving her B.A. in 1969. She completed her doctorate in 1980 at the MIT Department of Linguistics and Philosophy (thesis supervisor Barbara Herman). \nShe was on the faculty of New York University during the 1980s to 1990s and received a professorship at Harvard in 2003.\n\nKamm's early work was concerned with the moral justification of abortion under the assumption of fetal personhood. She is also specifically associated with the trolley problem.\n\nKamm worked as an ethics consultant for the World Health Organization.\nShe is a fellow of the Hastings Center, an independent bioethics research institution in Garrison, New York.\nShe is a fellow of the Hastings Center, an independent bioethics research institution in Garrison, New York.\nShe held ACLS, AAUW, and Guggenheim fellowships, and has been a Fellow of the Program in Ethics and the Professions at the Kennedy School, the Center for Human Values at Princeton, and the Center for Advanced Study at Stanford.\nShe is a member of the editorial boards of Philosophy & Public Affairs, Legal Theory, Bioethics, and Utilitas.\nIn August 2007, Kamm delivered the annual Oslo Lecture in Moral Philosophy. \nIn 2008, she delivered the Uehiro Lectures at Oxford University in England. \nIn 2011, Kamm was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences as an ethics consultant. In 2013, she delivered the Tanner Lectures on Human Values at the University of California, Berkeley.\nKamm teaches the \"Gamma Cohort\" of the 2017 Harvard Kennedy School MPP program.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11761785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11761785", "title": "Georg Kreisel", "text": "Georg Kreisel\n\nGeorg Kreisel FRS (September 15, 1923 – March 1, 2015) was an Austrian-born mathematical logician who studied and worked in Great Britain and America.\n\nKreisel was born in Graz and came from a Jewish background; his family sent him to the United Kingdom before the Anschluss, where he studied mathematics at Trinity College, Cambridge, and then, during World War II, worked on military subjects. Kreisel never took a Ph.D., though in 1962 he was awarded the Cambridge degree of Sc.D., a `higher doctorate' given on the basis of published research. He taught at the University of Reading from 1949 until 1954 and then worked at the Institute for Advanced Study from 1955 to 1957. He returned to Reading in 1957, but then taught at Stanford University from 1958-1959. Then back at Reading for the year 1959-1960, and then the University of Paris 1960-1962. Kreisel was appointed a professor at Stanford University in 1962 and remained on the faculty there until he retired in 1985.\n\nKreisel worked in various areas of logic, and especially in proof theory, where he is known for his so-called \"unwinding\" program, whose aim was to extract constructive content from superficially non-constructive proofs.\n\nKreisel was elected to the Royal Society in 1966; Kreisel remained a close friend of Francis Crick whom he had met in the Royal Navy during WWII.\n\nWhile a student at Cambridge, Kreisel was the student most respected by Ludwig Wittgenstein. Ray Monk writes, \"In 1944--when Kreisel was still only twenty-one--Wittgenstein shocked Rush Rhees by declaring Kreisel to be the most able philosopher he had ever met who was also a mathematician.\"\n\nKreisel was also a close friend of the Anglo-Irish philosopher and novelist Iris Murdoch. They met at Cambridge in 1947 during Murdoch's year of study there. Peter Conradi reports that Murdoch transcribed Kreisel's letters into her journals over the next fifty years. According to Conradi, \"For half a century she nonetheless records variously Kreisel's brilliance, wit and sheer 'dotty' solipsistic strangeness, his amoralism, cruelty, ambiguous vanity and obscenity.\" Murdoch dedicated her 1971 novel \"An Accidental Man\" to Kreisel and he became a (partial) model for several characters in other novels, including Marcus Vallar in \"The Message to the Planet\" and Guy Openshaw in \"Nuns and Soldiers\".*\n\nAfter retirement Kreisel lived in Salzburg, Austria. He wrote several biographies of mathematicians including Kurt Gödel, Bertrand Russell and Luitzen Egbertus Jan Brouwer. He died in Salzburg, aged 91.\n\nWhen Kreisel was teaching at The University of Reading he would frequently take the train into London. There was a particularly fast train that was timed just right for the shows in London, and he would go to the station at that time. He checked the timetable one day, and that train was canceled. But out of habit one day he showed up at the station at the usual time and the train was there. It seems that it was going from Bristol to London, stopping at Reading only to get water. He got on the train anyway, and from then on took that train regularly. One day he was accosted by the conductor after he got on. \"The train doesn't stop here sir!\" \"In that case I didn't get on here.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11521384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11521384", "title": "George Turnbull (theologian)", "text": "George Turnbull (theologian)\n\nGeorge Turnbull (11 July 1698 – 31 Jan 1748) was a Scottish philosopher, theologian, teacher, writer on education and an early but little-known figure in the Scottish Enlightenment. He taught at Marischal College, Aberdeen, worked as a tutor and became an Anglican clergyman. Aside from his published writings on moral philosophy, he is also known for the influence he exerted on Thomas Reid and as the first member of the Scottish Enlightenment to publish a formal treatise on the theory and practice of education.\n\nGeorge Turnbull was born on 11 July 1698 in Alloa, Clackmannanshire. He was the son of George Turnbull, a minister, and his wife Elizabeth, and the third of their nine children. Turnbull began his studies at the University of Edinburgh in 1711 and started studying for a degree in divinity in 1717, graduating MA in 1721. During his years of study in Edinburgh, he became involved with the Rankenian Club, a circle of intellectuals, which included those who would become his closest associates: George Young, the surgeon and William Wishart, a preacher. At this time, Turnbull was interested in creating a rational form of Christianity, which led to his correspondence with John Toland, and the writing of an essay in defence of religious toleration which was never published.\n\nTurnbull was made regent at Marischal College, Aberdeen, on 14 April 1721. His two graduation theses were \"De scientiae naturalis cum philosophia morali conjunctione\" from 1723 and \"De pulcherrima mundi cum materialis tum rationalis constitutione\" from 1726. These two works indicate that he was the first Scottish thinker to publish writings that argued for the use of the so-called Newtonian method in constructing a moral philosophy. Turnbull also drew heavily on the ideas of Lord Shaftesbury. Although this might be taken to indicate a preoccupation with the scholarship of his time, Turnbull showed great fondness for the classical moralists of antiquity.\n\nAlthough Turnbull was a popular teacher and exerted lasting influence on pupils such as Thomas Reid, he nevertheless decided to leave Marischal. He sought a position elsewhere and had disputes with the principal of the college, Thomas Blackwell. Turnbull left the college without prior leave and went to serve as tutor to the Udney family. In 1727 he formally resigned. After his resignation, he took on tutoring jobs and travelled on the Continent of Europe. He then received a degree from the University of Edinburgh. At this point, Turnbull decided that he might seek employment in the Anglican church, and matriculated at Exeter College, Oxford, in 1733 and received a BCL degree.\n\nFinancial difficulties forced Turnbull to resume tutoring, and with some misgivings he spent 2 years in Italy, tutoring the son of Lord Rockingham. In 1737 he used his connections with Thomas Birch to secure his ordination by the bishop of Winchester. This precipitated his entry into court circles and in 1741 he was made chaplain to the Prince of Wales. A year later, Turnbull was granted the position of rector of Drumachose by the bishop of Derry and became the tutor of Horace Walpole in 1744.\n\nOver the course of the 1730s and 1740s, Turnbull published a series of pamphlets and books which drew heavily on his theological concerns. He published a small tract in 1731 which was inspired by a passage in Lord Shaftesbury's writings: \"A philosophical enquiry concerning the connexion betwixt the doctrines and miracles of Jesus Christ\", where he maintains that just as experiments confirm scientific theories, so the miracles of Jesus Christ confirm Christian doctrine. Turnbull then wrote a critique of Matthew Tindal in \"Christianity neither False nor Useless, Tho' not as Old as the Creation\" in 1732, which dwelled on the relationship between natural religion and revealed religion.\n\nIn 1740, Turnbull published \"A Treatise on Ancient Painting\", where he argued for the educational usefulness of the finer arts, based on the idea that painting was a kind of language, conveying ideas and truths about life, philosophy and nature. Later that year, he published a brief religious work, \"An Impartial Enquiry into the Moral Character of Jesus Christ\". In this work, Turnbull expounded Christ as the greatest of moral philosophers. He also published the greatest statements of his philosophy in \"The Principles of Moral and Christian Philosophy\", which drew on his old Aberdeen lectures as well as his discussions with philosophers on the Continent. Turnbull's last significant work was published in 1742: \"Observations upon Liberal Education\", where he suggested a new categorisation and breakdown of knowledge, and a revision of university curriculum.\n\nTurnbull died in The Hague on 31 January 1748 for reasons unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "204987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204987", "title": "Gershom Carmichael", "text": "Gershom Carmichael\n\nGershom Carmichael (1672–1729) was a Scottish philosopher.\n\nGershom Carmichael was a Scottish subject born in London, the son of Alexander Charmichael, a Church of Scotland minister who had been banished by the Scottish privy council for his religious opinions. As a child, he suffered from crooked limbs (probably rickets) and was treated by \"body menders\" who made him wear limb braces. Through his friendship with the Duke of Hamilton, Carmichael visited Bath to take the waters and he was eventually able to dispense with the braces.\n\nCarmichael graduated at Edinburgh University in 1691, and became a regent at St Andrews. In 1694 he was elected a master in the university of Glasgow – an office that was converted into the professorship of moral philosophy in 1727, when the system of masters was abolished at Glasgow. He died in Glasgow.\n\nSir William Hamilton regarded him as \"the real founder of the Scottish school of philosophy.\" He wrote \"Breviuscula Introductio ad Logicam\", a treatise on logic and the psychology of the intellectual powers, combining Arnauld and Nicole with Locke; \"Synopsis Theologiae Naturalis\"; and an edition of Pufendorf, \"De Officio Hominis et Civis\", with notes and supplements of high value. His son Frederick was the author of \"Sermons on Several Important Subjects\" and \"Sermons on Christian Zeal\", both published in 1753.\n"}
{"id": "23014621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23014621", "title": "Homo consumericus", "text": "Homo consumericus\n\nHomo consumericus (mock Latin for consumerist person) is a neologism used in the social sciences, notably by Gad Saad in his book \"The Evolutionary Bases of Consumption\" and by Gilles Lipovetsky in \"Le Bonheur Paradoxal\". According to these and other scholars the phenomenon of mass consumption could be compared to certain traits of human psychology described by evolutionary scientists pointing out similarities between Darwinian principles and consumer behaviour. Lipovetsky has noted that modern times have brought about the rise of a \"third\" type of \"Homo consumericus,\" who is unpredictable and insatiable.\n\nA similar expression \"Homo Consumens\" was used by Erich Fromm in \"Socialist Humanism\" , written in 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "29575633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29575633", "title": "Inhale Yoga with Steve Ross", "text": "Inhale Yoga with Steve Ross\n\nInhale Yoga with Steve Ross, sometimes shortened to just \"Inhale\", was an Oxygen Network television show in the USA that was shown at 6am from spring 2000 until spring 2010. The show featured the yoga instructor Steve Ross, named the \"guru of Los Angeles\" by \"Vanity Fair\". \"Inhale\" is lauded by fans for the groovy music, high energy pace and wry jokes by Ross.\n"}
{"id": "33072433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33072433", "title": "International Union of History and Philosophy of Science", "text": "International Union of History and Philosophy of Science\n\nThe International Union of History and Philosophy of Science and Technology is one of the members of the International Science Council (ISC). It was founded in 1955 by merging the \"International Union of History of Science\" (IUHS) and the \"International Union of Philosophy of Science\" (IUPS), and consists of two divisions, the Division of History of Science and Technology (DHST) and the Division of Logic, Methodology and Philosophy of Science and Technology (DLMPST). \n\nThe Division of History of Science and Technology (DHST) is an international non-governmental organisation devoted to international cooperation in the fields of history of science across the world. \nTogether with the \"Division of Logic, Methodology, and Philosophy of Science and Technology\" (DLMPST), the DHST forms one of the two divisions of the International Union of History and Philosophy of Science and Technology, representing the field of history of science in the International Science Council (ISC). The DHST is a member organisation of the \nConseil international de la philosophie et des sciences humaines (CIPSH).\n\nThe DHST organizes an international congress every four years, and coordinates the activities of numerous commissions. The members of DHST are 98 national members (represented by national committees for the history of science) and 26 international scientific unions.\n\n\nA map of past congresses can be found here.\n\n\nThe current DHST council consists of \nMichael Osborne (president),\nMarcos Cueto (president elect),\nAngela Creager (first vice-president),\nLuiz Carlos Soares (second vice-president),\nCatherine Jami (secretary general),\nMilada Sekyrkova (treasurer),\nTakehiko Hashimoto (assistant secretary general) and\nthe council members\nGregory Good,\nGavan McCarthy,\nKrishnamurthi Ramasubramanian,\nMaria Rentetzi,\nSergey Shalimov, and \nLiba Taub.\n\nThe Division of Logic, Methodology and Philosophy of Science and Technology (DLMPST) is an international non-governmental organisation devoted to international cooperation in the fields of logic and philosophy of science across the world. \nTogether with the \"Division of History of Science and Technology\" (DHST), the DLMPST forms one of the two divisions of the International Union of History and Philosophy of Science and Technology, representing the fields of logic and philosophy of science in the International Science Council (ISC). \nThe DLMPST is a member organisation of the \nConseil international de la philosophie et des sciences humaines (CIPSH).\nUntil 2015, the DLMPST was called \"Division of Logic, Methodology and Philosophy of Science\".\n\nThe main activity of the DLMPST is the organization of the Congress for Logic, Philosophy and Methodology of Science and Technology (CLMPST) every four years.\n\n\n\nThe council of the DLMPST consists of the executive committee and eight assessors.\nThe current members of the executive committee of the DLMPST are \nMenachem Magidor (president),\nHelen Longino (first vice-president),\nAmita Chatterjee (second vice-president),\nElliott Sober (past president),\nBenedikt Löwe (secretary general),\nSamson Abramsky, Rachel Ankeny,\nVeronica Becher, Heather Douglas, Hannes Leitgeb,\nMitsuhiro Okada, Katarzyna Papryzycka,\nCharlotte Werndl.\n\nPast council members include\nMaria Carla Galavotti (first vice president, 2011-2015), Cliff Hooker (second vice president, 2011-2015),\nDennis Dieks, Adam Grobler, , Pablo Lorenzano, Karen Neander, Nancy Narcessian, Ilkka Niiniluoto, and Mariko Yasugi.\n\n"}
{"id": "8368757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8368757", "title": "Jacques Taminiaux", "text": "Jacques Taminiaux\n\nJacques Taminiaux (; born 29 May 1928, Seneffe) is a Belgian philosopher, Professor since 1989 at Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, United States. He studied law and philosophy at the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium. His research interests are on phenomenology, aesthetics, political philosophy, and contemporary continental philosophy.\n\nTogether with Herman Van Breda, he worked on the Husserl-Archives Leuven (the research center responsible for the publication of the philosophical work of Edmund Husserl) at the Higher Institute of Philosophy of the Catholic University of Leuven. In 1977, he was awarded the Francqui Prize on Human Sciences for his work on the history of philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "510845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=510845", "title": "Jean-Luc Nancy", "text": "Jean-Luc Nancy\n\nJean-Luc Nancy (; ; born 26 July 1940) is a French philosopher.\n\nNancy's first book, published in 1973, was \"Le titre de la lettre\" (\"The Title of the Letter\", 1992), a reading of the work of French psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan, written in collaboration with Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe. Nancy is the author of works on many thinkers, including \"La remarque spéculative\" in 1973 (\"The Speculative Remark\", 2001) on Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, \"Le Discours de la syncope\" (1976) and \"L’Impératif catégorique\" (1983) on Immanuel Kant, \"Ego sum\" (1979) on René Descartes, and \"Le Partage des voix\" (1982) on Martin Heidegger. In addition to \"Le titre de la lettre\", Nancy collaborated with Lacoue-Labarthe on several other books and articles. Major influences include Martin Heidegger, Jacques Derrida, Georges Bataille, Maurice Blanchot and Friedrich Nietzsche.\n\nJean-Luc Nancy graduated in philosophy in 1962 in Paris. He taught for a short while in Colmar before becoming an assistant at the Strasbourg Institut de Philosophie in 1968. In 1973, he received his doctorate with a dissertation on Kant under the supervision of Paul Ricœur. Nancy was then promoted to \"Maître de conférences\" at the Université des Sciences Humaines de Strasbourg. In the 1970s and 1980s, Nancy was a guest professor at universities all over the world, from the University of California to the Freie Universität in Berlin. He has been invited as a cultural delegate of the French Ministry of External Affairs to speak in Eastern Europe, Britain and the United States. In 1987, Nancy received his \"Docteur d'état\" from the Université de Toulouse-Le-Mirail under the supervision of Gérard Granel and a jury including Jean-François Lyotard and Jacques Derrida. It was published as \"L'expérience de la liberté\" (1988).\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, Nancy suffered serious medical problems. He underwent a heart transplant and his recovery was made more difficult by a long-term fight with cancer. He stopped teaching and quit participating in almost all of the committees with which he was engaged, but continued to write. Many of his best known texts were published during this time. An account of his experience, \"L'intrus\" (\"The Intruder\"), was published in 2000. Nancy was a professor at the University of Strasbourg.\n\nFilmmaker Claire Denis has made at least two movies inspired by Jean-Luc Nancy and his works. Many other artists have worked with Nancy as well, such as Simon Hantaï, Soun-gui Kim and Phillip Warnell. Nancy has written about the filmmaker Abbas Kiarostami and featured prominently in the film \"The Ister\".\n\nIn 1980, Nancy and Lacoue-Labarthe organized a conference at Centre culturel international de Cerisy-la-Salle on Derrida and politics entitled \"Les Fins de l'homme\" (\"The Ends of Man\"). The conference solidified Derrida’s place at the forefront of contemporary philosophy, and was a place to begin an in-depth conversation between philosophy and contemporary politics. Further to their desire to rethink the political, Nancy and Lacoue-Labarthe set up in the same year the \"Centre de Recherches Philosophiques sur la Politique\" (Centre for Philosophical Research on the Political). The Centre was dedicated to pursuing philosophical rather than empirical approaches to political questions, and supported such speakers as Claude Lefort and Jean-François Lyotard. By 1984, however, Nancy and Lacoue-Labarthe were dissatisfied with the direction work at the centre was taking, and it was closed down.\n\nDuring that period Lacoue-Labarthe and Nancy produced several important papers, together and separately. Some of these texts appear in \"Les Fins de l'homme à partir du travail de Jacques Derrida: colloque de Cerisy, 23 juillet-2 août 1980\" (1981), \"Rejouer le politique\" (1981), \"La retrait du politique\" (1983), and \"Le mythe nazi\" (1991, revised edition; originally published as \"Les méchanismes du fascisme\", 1981). Many of these texts are gathered in translation in \"Retreating the Political\" (1997).\n\nNancy's first book on the question of community, \"La Communauté désœuvrée\" (\"The Inoperative Community\", 1986), is perhaps his best-known work. This text is an introduction to some of the main philosophical themes Nancy continued to work with. Nancy traces the influence of the notion of community to concepts of experience, discourse, and the individual, and argues that it has dominated modern thought. Discarding popular notions, Nancy redefines community, asking what can it be if it is reduced neither to a collection of separate individuals, nor to a hypostasized communal substance, e.g., fascism. He writes that our attempt to design society according to pre-planned definitions frequently leads to social violence and political terror, posing the social and political question of how to proceed with the development of society with this knowledge in mind. \"La Communauté désœuvrée\" means that community is not the result of a production, be it social, economic or even political (nationalist) production; it is not \"une \", a \"work of art\" (\"œuvre d'art\", but \"art\" is here understood in the sense of \"artifice\").\n\nNancy's dissertation for his \"Doctorat d'État\" looked at the works of Kant, Schelling, Sartre and Heidegger, and concentrated on their treatment of the topic of freedom. It was published in 1988 as \"L'Expérience de la Liberté\" (\"The Experience of Freedom\"). Since then, Nancy has continued to concentrate on developing a reorientation of Heidegger’s work. Nancy treats freedom as a property of the individual or collectivity, and looks for a \"non-subjective\" freedom which would attempt to think the existential or finite origin for every freedom. Nancy argues that it is necessary to think freedom in its finite being, because to think of it as the property of an infinite subject is to make any finite being a limit of freedom. The existence of the other is the necessary condition of freedom, rather than its limitation.\n\nNancy addresses the world in its contemporary global configuration in other writings on freedom, justice and sovereignty. In his 1993 book \"Le sens du monde\" (\"The Sense of the World\"), he asks what we mean by saying that we live in one world, and how our sense of the world is changed by saying that it is situated within the world, rather than above or apart from it. To Nancy, the world, or existence, is our ontological responsibility, which precedes political, judicial and moral responsibility. He describes our being in the world as an exposure to a naked existence, without the possibility of support by a fundamental metaphysical order or cause. Contemporary existence no longer has recourse to a divine framework, as was the case in feudal society where the meaning and course of life was predetermined. The contingency of our naked existence as an ontological question is the main challenge of our existence in contemporary global society.\n\nAll of these themes relating to world are taken up again by Nancy in his 2002 book \"La création du monde ou la mondialisation\" (\"The Creation of the World or Globalization\"), where he makes the distinction between globalization as a deterministic process and mondialisation as an open-ended \"world-forming\" process. Here, he connects his critique with Marx's critique of political economy, which saw \"free labour\" as what produces the world. Nancy argues that an authentic \"dwelling\" in the world must be concerned with the creation of meaning (enjoyment) and not final purposes, closed essences, and exclusive worldviews. The present system of expanding cities and nodes in the planetary techno-scientific network (tied to capitalism) leads to the loss of world, because the world is treated as an object (globe), even though the self-deconstruction of ontotheology increasingly made it the \"subject\" of its own creation.\n\nIn his book \"Être singulier pluriel\" (\"Being Singular Plural\", 2000), Nancy tackles the question of how we can speak of a plurality of a \"we\" without making the \"we\" a singular identity. The premise of the title essay in this book is that there is no being without \"being-with,\" that \"I\" does not come before \"we\" (i.e., \"Dasein\" does not precede \"Mitsein\") and that there is no existence without co-existence. In an extension from his thoughts on freedom, community, and the sense of the world, he imagines the \"being-with\" as a mutual exposure to one another that preserves the freedom of the \"I\", and thus a community that is not subject to an exterior or pre-existent definition.\n\nThe five essays that follow the title piece continue to develop Nancy’s philosophy through discussions of sovereignty, war and technology, ecotechnics, identity, the Gulf War and Sarajevo. Nancy’s central concern in these essays remains the \"being-with\", which he uses to discuss issues of psychoanalysis, politics and multiculturalism, looking at notions of \"self\" and \"other\" in current contexts.\n\nNancy has also written for art catalogues and international art journals, especially on contemporary art. He also writes poetry and for the theatre and has earned respect as an influential philosopher of art and culture. In his book \"Les Muses\" published in 1994 (\"The Muses\", 1996), he begins with an analysis of Hegel’s thesis on the death of art. Among the essays in \"The Muses\" is a piece on Caravaggio, originally a lecture given at the Louvre. In this essay, Nancy looks for a different conception of painting where painting is not a representation of the empirical world, but a presentation of the world, of sense, or of existence. Nancy has published books on film and music, as well as texts on the problem of representation, on the statute of literature, on image and violence, and on the work of On Kawara, Charles Baudelaire, and Friedrich Hölderlin.\n\nNancy's text \"L'intrus\" formed the basis for French director Claire Denis's film of the same name.\n\nHe has written extensively on film, including \"The Evidence of Film,\" a short work on Abbas Kiarostami.\n\nNancy appears in the film \"The Ister\", based on Martin Heidegger's 1942 lectures on Friedrich Hölderlin's poem \"Der Ister\" (published as \"Hölderlin's Hymn \"The Ister\"\"). The film focuses on the relation of politics, technology and myth.\n\nNancy has developed three films in conjunction with artist-filmmaker Phillip Warnell. He appears in their 2009 film Outlandish: 'Strange Foreign Bodies', which also features a text he wrote specifically for the project, Étranges Corps Étrangers. Nancy contributed a poem, 'Oh The Animals of Language' to Warnell's 2014 feature-length film 'Ming of Harlem: Twenty One Storeys in the Air'. Warnell and Nancy worked on a new text-film collaboration which was completed in 2017, 'The Flying Proletarian'.\n\n\n\n\n• Nancy, Jean-Luc & Warnell, Phillip. \"Outlandish\". London: Calverts Press, 2010\n\n"}
{"id": "4344295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4344295", "title": "Jean-Paul Audet", "text": "Jean-Paul Audet\n\nJean-Paul Audet, (December 7, 1918 – November 12, 1993) was a French Canadian academic and philosopher.\n\nHe was a professor and former head of the Université de Montréal's Department of Philosophy.\n\nIn 1988, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada for his \"contribution to the field of theology\". In 1969, he was awarded the Molson Prize. In 1970, he was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19519259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19519259", "title": "Joaquim Carreras i Artau", "text": "Joaquim Carreras i Artau\n\nJoaquim Carreras i Artau (August 14, 1894 in Girona – August 12, 1968 in Tiana, Barcelona) was a Catalan philosopher.\n\nHe began his studies of scholastic philosophy at the Girona Seminary, where he stayed for ten years. Later he graduated from the University of Barcelona with BAs in Law and Philosophy. The thesis \"Ensayo sobre el voluntarismo de J. Duns Scoto\" gave him a Doctorate in Philosophy at the University of Madrid. He taught both at secondary schools and at the University of Barcelona from 1939 to 1964, first as a teaching assistant and, for the last twelve years, as professor.\n\nHe devoted himself intensely to the historical and philosophical research. Among his more important contributions, is his research on Ramon Llull and, especially, on Arnau de Vilanova.\n\nThese form part of the work of \"Historia de la filosofia española: filosofia cristiana de los siglos XIII al XV\" (published between 1934–43), which he wrote in collaboration with his brother Tomàs Carreras i Artau, who was a philosopher and professor of Ethics. Both were awarded with the “Premio de la Asociación Española para el Progreso de las Ciencias”.\n\nHe was a member of the Science Section of the Institut d’Estudis Catalans (1944) and the Reial Academia de Bones Lletres of Barcelona (1955), chairman of the Societé Internationale pour l’Étude de la Philosophie médiévale (1964) and teacher of the Escola Lul.lística of Mallorca.\n\nOther work includes \"La filosofía universitaria en Catalunya durante el segundo tercio del s. XIX\" (1964) and a great number of studies on Arnau de Vilanova, along with critical editions of his spiritual works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1718472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718472", "title": "Johann Bernhard Basedow", "text": "Johann Bernhard Basedow\n\nJohann Bernhard Basedow (September 11, 1724, – July 25, 1790) was a German educational reformer, teacher and writer. He founded the Philanthropinum, a short-lived but influential progressive school in Dessau, and was the author of \"Elementarwerk\", a popular illustrated textbook for children.\n\nBasedow was born in Hamburg, the son of a wigmaker. His father has been described as \"severe almost to brutality\",\nhis mother as \"melancholy almost to madness\", which made his childhood a less than happy one. It was planned that he should\nfollow his father's profession, but, at the age of 14, he ran away from home, finding employment as a servant of a country physician in Holstein. His employer recognized Johann's extraordinary intellectual gifts and sent him home to his parents with a letter which persuaded them to allow their son to be schooled at the Johanneum in Hamburg. Here, Johann came under the influence of the rationalist H.S. Reimarus (1694–1768), author of the famous\n\"Wolfenbütteler Fragmente\", published by Lessing\n\nIn 1744, Basedow went to the University of Leipzig as a student of theology, but turned instead to the study of philosophy, being particularly influenced by Wolff's \"Philosophy of Reason\". This made him examine his own Christian faith, arriving at a position that was \"in a centre between Christianism and naturalism\". He rejected his clerical vocation and turned instead to radicalism and reformism.\n\nBetween 1749 and 1753, Basedow was a private tutor to the son of Herr Von Quaalen, a nobleman living in Borghorst, Holstein. He developed new teaching methods based on conversation and play with the child, and a program of physical development. Such was his success that he wrote a treatise on his methods, \"On the best and hitherto unknown method of teaching children of noblemen\", which he presented to the University of Kiel in 1752, and obtained the degree of Master of Arts.\n\nIn 1753, he was appointed professor of moral philosophy and \"belles-lettres\" at Sorø Academy in Denmark. He proved to be a very popular teacher and was also called on to lecture on Theology. However, his fearless, anti-establishment views and the publication of a book in 1758, \"Practische Philosophie\" (\"Practical Philosophy\"), in which he expounded his unorthodox religious position, led, in 1761, to his removal from this post and transfer to Altona; here his published works brought him into conflict with the orthodox clergy. He was forbidden to give further instruction, but did not lose his salary; and, towards the end of 1767, he abandoned theology to devote himself with the same ardour to education, of which he conceived the project of a general reform in Germany.\n\nIn 1768, strongly influenced by Rousseau's ideas on education in \"\", Basedow published a book, \"Vorstellung an Menschenfreunde für Schulen, nebst dem Plan eines Elementarbuches der menschlichen Erkenntnisse\" (\"Idea to philanthropists for schools, along with the plan of an elementary book of human knowledge\"). He proposed the reform of schools and of the common methods of instruction, the establishment of an institute for qualifying teachers and solicited subscriptions for the printing of a new, illustrated, book, \"\" (\"Elementary Book\"), where his principles were to be explained at length. He realized it is the responsibility of all of society to support these important education reforms intended to improve the quality of teaching, remove brutal treatment of students in all forms and replace it with compassion and understanding, and the introduction of new teaching materials and books to help students learn. He proposed his reform project to wealthy individuals who he knew were interested in helping humanity and soon received financial support. Initially he gathered over twenty thousand thalers and in 1774 he was able to publish Elementarwerk in four volumes, with illustrations by Daniel Chodowiecki. The Elementarwerk contained a complete system of primary education, intended to develop the intelligence of the pupils and to bring them, so far as possible, into contact with realities, not with mere words; it was the first picture textbook for children to be published since the \"Orbis Pictus\" of Comenius in 1664. There was also a companion \"Methodenbuch\" (Method Book) to assist teachers and parents.\n\nThis financial support from \"friends of humanity\" (Philanthropy = love of humanity), established Basedow as the founder of the philanthropic movement and he developed the first philanthropic concept. Philanthropy was integral to the forwarding of the education reform movement and could not have been successful otherwise.\n\nBasedow was a friend of Goethe, and through him made the acquaintance of Prince Franz of Anhalt-Dessau, who became a firm supporter of Basedow's plans for educational reform and agreed to back the founding of a new school, the \"Philanthropinum\", in Dessau. The school opened in December 1774, its keynote being, \"everything according to nature\". Rich and poor were to be educated together, the curriculum was practically-based and conducted in German (rather than Latin or Greek), handicrafts were taught, there was an emphasis on games and physical exercise, and school uniform was made simple and more comfortable. Although the school was open for only a relatively short time until 1793, its reforming influence proved to be considerable and inspired the founding of many similar institutions in Germany and abroad.\n\nBasedow, unfortunately, was not disposed by nature or habit to succeed in an employment which required the greatest regularity, patience and attention; his temper was intractable, and his management of the Philanthropinum was one long quarrel with his colleagues. He resigned his directorship of the institution in 1778.\n\nBasedow died in Magdeburg in 1790.\n\n\nBooks by Basedow:\n\n\nAbout Basedow and his work:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20010804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20010804", "title": "Jon Hellesnes", "text": "Jon Hellesnes\n\nJon Hellesnes (born 16 September 1939) is a Norwegian philosopher, novelist and essayist.\n\nHe was appointed professor of philosophy at the University of Tromsø in 1985. He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nThis is a list of his most notable works:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37226088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37226088", "title": "Joseph C. Pitt", "text": "Joseph C. Pitt\n\nJoseph C. Pitt (born 1943) is an American Pragmatist, philosopher of science and technology who works at Virginia Tech in the Departments of Philosophy and Science and Technology in Society. He is the current editor-in-chief of \"\" and the former editor of \"Perspectives on Science\". He was founding director of the Center for Science Studies at Virginia Tech, which is now the Department of Science and Technology in Society.\n\nPitt did his undergraduate studies at William & Mary, where he was a member of a fraternity. He completed his graduate studies in Canada, where he learned to grow his magnificent beard.\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20130525171433/http://www.vtnews.vt.edu/articles/2013/04/images/M_042313-facstaffaward-pitt.jpg\n\nPitt is the author of:\n"}
{"id": "56211744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56211744", "title": "Kashmiri Khwaja", "text": "Kashmiri Khwaja\n\nKhawaja or khwaja is an honorific title used across the Middle East, South Asia, Southeast Asia and Central Asia, particularly towards Sufi teachers. The word comes from the Iranian word khwāja (New Persian khāje خواجه) and translates as \"master\", \"lord\". \n\nSome of the Kashmiri converts to Islam by Sufi saints adopted the title Khawaja. Khawajas were considered rich and were mostly traders.\n\n"}
{"id": "80552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80552", "title": "Law (principle)", "text": "Law (principle)\n\nA law is a universal principle that describes the fundamental nature of something, the universal properties and the relationships between things, or a description that purports to explain these principles and relationships.\n\nFor example, \"physical laws\" such as the \"law of gravity\" or \"scientific laws\" attempt to describe the fundamental nature of the universe itself. Laws of mathematics and logic describe the nature of rational thought and inference (Kant's transcendental idealism, and differently G. Spencer-Brown's work \"Laws of Form\", was precisely a determination of the \"a priori\" laws governing human thought before any interaction whatsoever with experience).\n\nWithin most fields of study, and in science in particular, the elevation of some principle of that field to the status of \"law\" usually takes place after a very long time during which the principle is used and tested and verified; though in some fields of study such laws are simply postulated as a foundation and assumed. Mathematical laws are somewhere in between: they are often arbitrary and unproven in themselves, but they are sometimes judged by how useful they are in making predictions about the real world. However, they ultimately rely on arbitrary axioms. \n\nSome fundamental law of mathematics was introduced by Harsha\n\nFirst law of fundamentals: If we consider k as a constant and a, b & c are any real numbers of which the product of a and b is c but the product of formula_1and formula_2is not equal to formula_3. \n\nComplemantry of first law of fundamentals:As per first law a, b & c are any real numbers and k is any constant the product of a and b is c,then the product of formula_1 and formula_2 is equal to formula_6.\n\nSecond law of fundamentals:If we consider a, b & c are any real numbers and k be any constant the division of a and b is c and the division of formula_1 and formula_2 is not equal to formula_3 but equal \nto c.\n\nLaws of economics are an attempt in modelization of economic behavior. Marxism criticized the belief in eternal \"laws of economics\", which it considered a product of the dominant ideology. It claimed that in fact, those so-called \"laws of economics\" were only the historical laws of capitalism, that is of a particular historical social formation. With the advent, in the 20th century, of the application of mathematical, statistical, and experimental techniques to economics, economic theory matured into a corpus of knowledge rooted in the scientific method rather than in philosophical argument.\n\nFinally, the term is sometimes applied to less rigorous ideas that may be interesting observations or relationships, practical or ethical guidelines (also called rules of thumb), and even humorous parodies of such laws.\n\nExamples of scientific laws include Boyle's law of gases, conservation laws, Ohm's law, and others. Laws of other fields of study include Occam's razor as a principle of philosophy and Say's law in economics. Examples of observed phenomena often described as laws include the Titius-Bode law of planetary positions, Zipf's law of linguistics, Thomas Malthus's Principle of Population or Malthusian Growth Model, Moore's law of technological growth. Other laws are pragmatic and observational, such as the law of unintended consequences.\n\nSome humorous parodies of such laws include adages such as Murphy's law and its many variants, and Godwin's Law of Internet conversations.\n\n"}
{"id": "852943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=852943", "title": "Mary Midgley", "text": "Mary Midgley\n\nMary Beatrice Midgley (née Scrutton; 13 September 1919 – 10 October 2018) was a British philosopher. She was a Senior Lecturer in Philosophy at Newcastle University and was known for her work on science, ethics and animal rights. She wrote her first book, \"Beast And Man\" (1978), when she was in her fifties. She has since written over 15 other books, including \"Animals and Why They Matter\" (1983), \"Wickedness\" (1984), \"The Ethical Primate\" (1994), \"Evolution as a Religion\" (1985), and \"Science as Salvation\" (1992). She has been awarded honorary doctorates by Durham and Newcastle universities. Her autobiography, \"The Owl of Minerva\", was published in 2005.\n\nMidgley strongly opposed reductionism and scientism, and any attempts to make science a substitute for the humanities—a role for which it is, she argued, wholly inadequate. She wrote extensively about what philosophers can learn from nature, particularly from animals. A number of her books and articles discussed philosophical ideas appearing in popular science, including those of Richard Dawkins. She also wrote in favour of a moral interpretation of the Gaia hypothesis. \"The Guardian\" described her as a fiercely combative philosopher and the UK's \"foremost scourge of 'scientific pretension.'\"\n\nMidgley was born in London to Lesley and Tom Scrutton. Her father, the son of the eminent judge Sir Thomas Edward Scrutton, was a curate in Dulwich and later chaplain of King's College, Cambridge. She was raised in Cambridge, Greenford and Ealing, and educated at Downe House School in Cold Ash, Berkshire, where she developed her interest in classics and philosophy:\n[A] new and vigorous Classics teacher offered to teach a few of us Greek, and that too was somehow slotted into our timetables. We loved this and worked madly at it, which meant that with considerable efforts on all sides, it was just possible for us to go to college on Classics … I had decided to read Classics rather than English – which was the first choice that occurred to me – because my English teacher, bless her, pointed out that English literature is something that you read in any case, so it is better to study something that you otherwise wouldn't. Someone also told me that, if you did Classics at Oxford, you could do Philosophy as well. I knew very little about this but, as I had just found Plato, I couldn't resist trying it.\nShe took the Oxford entrance exam in the autumn of 1937, gaining a place at Somerville College. During the year before starting university, it was arranged that she would live in Austria for three months to learn German, but she had to leave after a month because of the worsening political situation. At Somerville she studied Mods and Greats alongside Iris Murdoch, graduating with first-class honours.\n\nSeveral of her lasting friendships that began at Oxford were with scientists, and she credited them with having educated her in a number of scientific disciplines. After a split in the Labour club at Oxford over the Soviet Union's actions, she was on the committee of the newly formed Democratic Socialist Club alongside Tony Crosland and Roy Jenkins. She writes that her career in philosophy may have been affected by women having a greater voice in discussion at the time, because many male undergraduates left after a year to fight in the Second World War: \"I think myself that this experience has something to do with the fact that Elizabeth [Anscombe] and I and Iris [Murdoch] and Philippa Foot and Mary Warnock have all made our names in philosophy... I do think that in normal times a lot of good female thinking is wasted because it simply doesn't get heard.\"\n\nMidgley left Oxford in 1942 and went into the civil service, as \"the war put graduate work right out of the question\". Instead, she \"spent the rest of the war doing various kinds of work that were held to be of national importance\".\n\nDuring this time she was also a teacher at Downe School and Bedford School. She returned to Oxford in 1947 to do graduate work with Gilbert Murray. She began research on Plotinus's view of the soul, which she has described as \"so unfashionable and so vast that I never finished my thesis\". In retrospect Midgley has written of her belief that she is \"lucky\" to have missed out in having a doctorate. She argues that one of the main flaws in doctoral training is that, while it \"shows you how to deal with difficult arguments\", it does not \"help you to grasp the big questions that provide its context – the background issues out of which the small problems arose.\"\n\nIn 1949 Midgley went to Reading University, teaching in the philosophy department there for four terms. In 1950 she married Geoffrey Midgley (died 1997), also a philosopher. They moved to Newcastle, where he got a job in the philosophy department of Newcastle University. Midgley gave up teaching for several years while she had three sons (Tom, David and Martin), before also getting a job in the philosophy department at Newcastle, where she and her husband were both \"much loved\". Midgley taught there between 1962 and 1980. During her time at Newcastle, she began studying ethology and this led to her first book, \"Beast and Man\" (1978), published when she was 59. \"I wrote no books until I was a good 50, and I'm jolly glad because I didn't know what I thought before then.\"\n\nMidgley was awarded an honorary D.Litt. by Durham University in 1995 and an honorary Doctor of Civil Law by Newcastle University in 2008. She was an honorary fellow of the Policy, Ethics and Life Sciences Research Centre at Newcastle University.\n\nMidgley died at the age of 99 in Jesmond on 10 October 2018.\n\nMidgley argued that philosophy is like plumbing, something that nobody notices until it goes wrong. \"Then suddenly we become aware of some bad smells, and we have to take up the floorboards and look at the concepts of even the most ordinary piece of thinking. The great philosophers ... noticed how badly things were going wrong, and made suggestions about how they could be dealt with.\" Despite her upbringing, she did not embrace Christianity herself, because, she says, \"I couldn't make it work. I would try to pray and it didn't seem to get me anywhere so I stopped after a while. But I think it's a perfectly sensible world view.\" She also argues that the world's religions should not simply be ignored: \"It turns out that the evils which have infested religion are not confined to it, but are ones that can accompany any successful human institution. Nor is it even clear that religion itself is something that the human race either can or should be cured of.\"\n\nMidgley's book \"Wickedness\" (1984) has been described as coming \"closest to addressing a theological theme: the problem of evil.\" But, Midgley argues that we need to understand the human capacity for wickedness, rather than blaming God for it. Midgley argues that evil arises from aspects of human nature, not from an external force. She further argues that evil is the absence of good, with good being described as the positive virtues such as generosity, courage and kindness. Therefore, evil is the absence of these characteristics, leading to selfishness, cowardice and similar. She therefore criticises existentialism and other schools of thought which promote the 'Rational Will' as a free agent. She also criticises the tendency to demonise those deemed 'wicked', by failing to acknowledge that they also display some measure of some of the virtues.\n\nMidgley also expressed her interest in Paul Davies' ideas on the inherent improbability of the order found in the universe. She argued that \"there's some sort of tendency towards the formation of order\", including towards life and \"perceptive life\". The best way, she argued, of talking about this is using the concept of \"a life force\", although she acknowledged that this is \"vague\". She also argued that \"gratitude\" is an important part of the motivation for theism. \"You go out on a day like this and you're really grateful. I don't know who to.\"\n\nThis understanding also links with Midgley's argument that the concept of Gaia has \"both a scientific and a religious aspect.\" She argued that people find this hard to grasp because our views on both science and religion have been narrowed so much that the connections between them are now obscured. This is not, however, about belief in a personal God, but instead about responding to the system of life, as revealed by Gaia, with \"wonder, awe and gratitude\"\n\nMidgley was supportive of James Lovelock's Gaia hypothesis. This was part of her \"principal passion\" of \"reviving our reverence for the earth\". Midgley also described Gaia as a \"breakthrough\", as it was \"the first time a theory derived from scientific measurements has carried with it an implicit moral imperative – the need to act in the interests of this living system on which we all depend.\n\nIn 2001 Midgley founded, along with David Midgley and Tom Wakeford, the Gaia Network, and became its first Chair. Their regular meetings on the implications of Gaia led to the 2007 book \"Earthy realism\" edited by Midgley, which sought to bring together the scientific and spiritual aspects of Gaia theory.\n\nMidgley's 2001 pamphlet for Demos \"Gaia: The next big idea\" argues for the importance of the idea of Gaia as a \"powerful tool\" in science, morality, psychology and politics, to gain a more holistic understanding of the world. Instead, Midgley argued that we \"must learn how to value various aspects of our environment, how to structure social relationships and institutions so that we value social and spiritual life, as well as the natural world, alongside commercial and economic aspects.\n\nHer book \"Science and Poetry\", also published in 2001, also includes a discussion on the idea of Gaia, which she argued \"is not a gratuitous, semi-mystical fantasy\", but instead is \"a useful idea, a cure for distortions that spoil our current world-view.\" It is useful both in finding practical solutions to environmental problems and also in giving us \"a more realistic view of ourselves\". Gaia has, Midgely argued, both scientific and moral importance, which also involves politics. There is also a religious angle to Gaia.\n\n\"Beast and Man\" was an examination of human nature and a reaction against the reductionism of sociobiology, and the relativism and behaviorism she saw as prevalent in much of social science. She argued that human beings are more similar to animals than many social scientists then acknowledged, while animals are in many ways more sophisticated than was often accepted. She criticised existentialists who argued that there was no such thing as human nature and writers such as Desmond Morris who she understood as arguing that human nature was \"brutal and nasty\". Instead, she argued that human beings and their relationship with animals could be better understood by using the qualitative methods of ethology and comparative psychology, and that this approach showed that \"we do have a nature and it's much more in the middle.\n\nWriting in the 2002 introduction to the reprint of \"Evolution as a Religion\" (1985), Midgley reported that she wrote both this book, and the later \"Science as Salvation\" (1992) to counter the \"quasi-scientific speculation\" of \"certain remarkable prophetic and metaphysical passages that appeared suddenly in scientific books, often in their last chapters.\" \"Evolution as a Religion\" dealt with the theories of evolutionary biologists, including Dawkins, while \"Science as Salvation\" dealt with the theories of physicists and artificial intelligence researchers. Midgley writes that she still believes that these theories, \"have nothing to do with any reputable theory of evolution,\" and will not solve the real social and moral problems the world is facing, either through genetic engineering or the use of machines. She concludes: \"These schemes still seem to me to be just displacement activities proposed in order to avoid facing our real difficulties.\" \"[I]n exposing these rhetorical attempts to turn science into a comprehensive ideology,\" she wrote in \"The myths we live by\", \"I am not attacking science but defending it against dangerous misconstructions.\"\n\nMidgley argued against reductionism, or the attempt to impose any one approach to understanding the world. She suggests that there are \"many maps, many windows,\" arguing that \"we need \"scientific pluralism\"—the recognition that there are many independent forms and sources of knowledge—rather than reductivism, the conviction that one fundamental form underlies them all and settles everything.\" She writes that it is helpful to think of the world as \"a huge aquarium. We cannot see it as a whole from above, so we peer in at it through a number of small windows ... We can eventually make quite a lot of sense of this habitat if we patiently put together the data from different angles. But if we insist that our own window is the only one worth looking through, we shall not get very far.\"\n\nShe argued that, \"acknowledging matter as somehow akin to and penetrated by mind is not adding a new ... assumption ... it is becoming aware of something we are doing already.\" She suggested that \"this topic is essentially the one which caused Einstein often to remark that the really surprising thing about science is that it works at all ... the simple observation that the laws of thought turn out to be the laws of things.\"\n\nMidgley wrote her 2014 book, \"Are you an illusion?\" as a response to Francis Crick's argument in his book \"The Astonishing Hypothesis\" that a person's sense of personal identity and free will is no more than the behaviour of nerve cells. She attacks the understanding inherent in this argument that everything, including a sense of self, can be understood through its physical properties. Instead, she argues that there are different levels of explanation, which need to be studied using different methods. This means that thoughts and memories are an integral part of reality for both humans and animals and need to be studied as such.\n\nIn volume 53 (1978) of \"Philosophy\", the journal of the Royal Institute of Philosophy, J. L. Mackie published an article entitled \"The Law of the Jungle: Moral Alternatives and Principles of Evolution\", praising Dawkins's \"The Selfish Gene\", and discussing how its ideas might be applied to moral philosophy. Midgley responded in volume 54 (1979) with \"Gene-Juggling,\" arguing that \"The Selfish Gene\" was about psychological egoism, rather than evolution. The paper criticised Dawkins' concepts, but was judged by its targets to be intemperate and personal in tone, and as having misunderstood Dawkins' ideas. Midgley disputed this view, arguing that while Dawkins purports to be talking about genes—that is, chemical arrangements—he nonetheless slides over to saying that \"we are born selfish\" (\"The Selfish Gene\", p. 3).\n\nShe wrote that she had previously \"not attended to Dawkins, thinking it unnecessary to 'break a butterfly upon a wheel'. But Mr Mackie's article is not the only indication I have lately met of serious attention being paid to his fantasies.\" In a rejoinder in 1981, Dawkins retorted that the comment was \"hard to match, in reputable journals, for its patronising condescension toward a fellow academic.\" He wrote that she \"raises the art of misunderstanding to dizzy heights. My central point had no connection with what she alleges. I am not even very directly interested in man, or at least not in his emotional nature. My book is about the evolution of life, not the ethics of one particular, rather aberrant, species.\" In volume 58 (1983), Midgley replied again, in \"Selfish Genes and Social Darwinism\": \"Apology is due, not only for the delay but for the impatient tone of my article. One should not lose one's temper, and doing so always makes for confused argument ... [but my] basic objections remain.\"\n\nThe bad feeling between Dawkins and Midgley appeared not to diminish. In a note to page 55 in the 2nd edition of \"The Selfish Gene\" (1989), Dawkins refers to her \"highly intemperate and vicious paper.\" Midgley continued to criticise Dawkins' ideas. In her books \"Evolution as a Religion\" (2002) and \"The Myths We Live By\" (2003), she writes about what she sees as his confused use of language—the sleight of hand involved in using terms such as \"selfish\" in different ways without alerting the reader to the change in meaning—and some of what she regards as his rhetoric (\"genes exert ultimate power over behaviour\"), which she argues is more akin to religion than science. She wrote in a letter to \"The Guardian\" in 2005:\n\n[There is] widespread discontent with the neo-Darwinist—or Dawkinsist—orthodoxy that claims something which Darwin himself denied, namely that natural selection is the sole and exclusive cause of evolution, making the world therefore, in some important sense, entirely random. This is itself a strange faith which ought not to be taken for granted as part of science.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Independent\" in September 2007, she argued that Dawkins' views on evolution are ideologically driven: \"The ideology Dawkins is selling is the worship of competition. It is projecting a Thatcherite take on economics on to evolution. It's not an impartial scientific view; it's a political drama.\" In April 2009 Midgley reiterated her critical interpretation of \"The Selfish Gene\" as part of a series of articles on Hobbes in \"The Guardian\". In her 2010 book \"The Solitary Self: Darwin and the Selfish Gene\", she argues that \"simple one-sided accounts of human motives, such as the \"selfish gene\" tendency in recent neo-Darwinian thought, may be illuminating but are always unrealistic.\"\n\nMidgley is referred to in \"The Lives of Animals\" (1999), an unusual fictional work by the South African novelist J. M. Coetzee. The book has been likened to a cross between a short story and a philosophical dialogue, as Coetzee's protagonist, Elizabeth Costello, often speaks at length about philosophical ideas. Many reviewers expressed bafflement at the text, which has an enigmatic and riddling style. As one reviewer noted, \"the reader is not quite sure whether he is intended to spot some confusion or contradiction or non-sequitur in [the protagonist's] arguments.\" Other critics however have noted many affinities between \"The Lives of Animals\" and Midgley's philosophy, and have used Midgley's ideas to make sense of Coetzee's famously confusing work.\n\nThe main character, who also appears in Coetzee's novel \"Elizabeth Costello\", is concerned with the moral status of animals, a subject Midgley addressed in \"Animals and Why They Matter\", and discusses at length the idea of sympathy as an ethical concept, a subject Midgley wrote about in \"Beast and Man\". Andy Lamey wrote that the result of these and other similarities is that Coetzee's work \"evoke[s] a particular conception of ethics, one very similar to that of the philosopher Mary Midgley. Such a view affords a central role to sympathy and is fundamentally opposed to a long-standing rival view, most clearly exemplified by the social contract tradition, which prioritizes an instrumental conception of rationality.\"\n\nCoetzee and Midgley additionally shared a longstanding fascination with Robinson Crusoe. Coetzee retells the Crusoe story in his novel \"Foe\", while Midgley wrote about Crusoe in her essay \"Duties Concerning Islands.\" Midgley's essay argued for the idea that human beings can have ethical obligations to non-human entities such as animals and ecosystems, an idea also found in \"The Lives of Animals\", \"Foe\" and many other works by Coetzee.\n\nMidgley agreed to sit for sculptor Jon Edgar in Newcastle during 2006, as part of the Environment Triptych, along with heads of Richard Mabey and James Lovelock. This was exhibited at Yorkshire Sculpture Park in 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27079770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27079770", "title": "Mental model theory of reasoning", "text": "Mental model theory of reasoning\n\nThe mental model theory of reasoning was developed by Philip Johnson-Laird and Ruth M.J. Byrne (Johnson-Laird and Byrne, 1991). It has been applied to the main domains of deductive inference including relational inferences such as spatial and temporal deductions; propositional inferences, such as conditional, disjunctive and negation deductions; quantified inferences such as syllogisms; and meta-deductive inferences.\n\nOngoing research on mental models and reasoning has led the theory to be extended to account for probabilistic inference (e.g., Johnson-Laird, 2006) and counterfactual thinking (Byrne, 2005).\n\n"}
{"id": "17463475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17463475", "title": "Micro-donation", "text": "Micro-donation\n\nMicro-donation or microphilanthropy is a form of charitable donation that is small in the donated amount. In the past, micro-donations have been used most effectively by companies collecting spare change at registers and checkouts. Recently, this form of philanthropy has become more popular with the advent of online and mobile donating.\nIn addition to the more traditional forms of donating, like giving directly from person to person, both the internet and mobile-phones have become more accepted by the public for collecting donations.\n\nMicro-donations of $200 or less have made up an ever-larger share of nomination fundraising in the three United States presidential primary elections since 2000. (In this measurement a person who donates $190 twice to a candidate has given two micro-donations, but is not a micro-donor). Micro-donations accounted for 25% of the total donations for the United States presidential election in 2000. This figure rose to 34% in 2004 and 38.8% in 2008.\n\nMicrophilanthropy requires the ability to deal with a large number of small interactions efficiently. If a successful approach also includes implementing a fundraising drive that utilizes microphilanthropic resources connected to a specific charity, the approach must also include a structure or \"middleman\" technology that allows for an effective, efficient aggregation and distribution of microphilanthropic donations. For example, the US-based nonprofit Zidisha offers an eBay-style peer-to-peer microlending platform, which uses internet and mobile phone technology to deliver services between lenders and borrowers directly across international borders without local intermediaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "40516523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40516523", "title": "Nancy Snow", "text": "Nancy Snow\n\nNancy E. Snow is a professor of philosophy and the director of the Institute for the Study of Human Flourishing at the University of Oklahoma. Prior to her move to Norman, she was a professor of philosophy at Marquette University.Her research has ranged widely, but has mostly focused on moral psychology and on virtue ethics. She has served as an editor of or on the editorial boards of a number of major journals, and has written or been primary editor of four books (as well as a large number of peer-reviewed papers.)\n\nSnow received a bachelor's degree from the Marquette University in 1980, and a master's in philosophy, also from Marquette, in 1982. She went on to receive a doctorate from the University of Notre Dame in 1988.\n\nSnow accepted an appointment as an assistant professor of philosophy at Arizona State University in 1987, before accepting an appointment as an assistant professor of philosophy at Marquette in 1989, where she has remained since. She was promoted to associate professor in 1996, and later promoted to full professor. While at Marquette, she served as the Director of Core Curriculum from 2002-2005. While at Marquette, she has driven efforts to improve the quality and diversity of courses the campus offers, especially in the realms of gender and sexuality, believing teaching to be a critically important role of the academic. She is the current associate editor for ethics and philosophy for \"The Journal of Moral Education\", and is currently on the editorial boards of both \"Ethical Theory and Moral Practice\" and \"The Journal of Value Inquiry\".\n\nSnow's research has ranged broadly over issues including the philosophy of law, social and political philosophy, moral psychology, feminist ethics, business ethics, bioethics, freedom, and determinism, however, her research has centered heavily around issues of virtue ethics and specific virtues. She has also attempted to, wherever possible, bring psychology in to conversation with philosophy so as to buttress philosophical arguments. She also has a heavy interest in bringing other outside fields in to conversation with western philosophy, including anthropology, literature, theology, and other philosophical traditions such as the eastern philosophical traditions inspired by figures such as Confucius.\n\nSnow has written or been the primary editor of four books. She authored \"Virtue as Social Intelligence: An Empirically Grounded Theory\", and edited \"Stem Cell Research: New Frontiers in Science and Ethics\", \"Legal Philosophy: Multiple Perspectives\", and \"In the Company of Others: Perspectives on Community, Family, and Culture\".\n\nIn \"Virtue as Social Intelligence: An Empirically Grounded Theory\", Snow points out that contemporary approaches to virtue ethics do not engage in a meaningful way with psychology, and thus remain vulnerable to the philosophical situationist challenge. In her book, Snow attempts to lay out an empirically grounded theory of virtue, hoping to avoid the challenges posed by philosophical situationists. Throughout the book, Snow examines in an empirically grounded way issues surrounding virtue, including advancing an empirical argument as to why virtue is in fact a good thing, and actively trying to counter the arguments of philosophical situationists. Snow considers virtue as a particular form of social intelligence, one that distinguishes itself from other forms of social intelligence by its motivation (care for the well-being of others.)\n"}
{"id": "21070846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21070846", "title": "National Yoga Month", "text": "National Yoga Month\n\nNational Yoga Month is a national observance and awareness campaign held during the month of September to educate about the health benefits of yoga and to inspire a healthy lifestyle. The awareness campaign consists of yoga classes, concerts and other special events during September to celebrate National Yoga Month and inspire people to practice yoga and to create a more balanced lifestyle. \n\nIn 2008, the Department of Health and Human Services designated September as National Yoga Month, one of a select number of national health observances. That same year, thousands of yoga and health enthusiasts participated in a 10 City Yoga Health Festival Tour featuring yoga classes, lectures, music, entertainment, exhibits. Since then, the initiative has taken root as a global awareness campaign, educating, inspiring and motivating people to achieve a healthy lifestyle.\n\n"}
{"id": "3868010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3868010", "title": "Neyzen Tevfik", "text": "Neyzen Tevfik\n\nTevfik Kolaylı (March 24, 1879 – January 28, 1953), better known by his pen name Neyzen Tevfik, was a Turkish poet, satirist, and \"neyzen\" (a \"ney performer\" in Turkish). He was born in Bodrum and died in Istanbul. His name is occasionally misspelled as Neyzen Teyfik.\n\nTevfik learned Persian as a young man, and became a Mevlevi in İzmir. He then moved to Istanbul and continued his Mevlevi practice in Galata and Kasımpaşa. In 1902 he became a Bektashi dervish.\n\nHis interest in poetry influenced him into meeting with Mehmet Akif Ersoy. As was the case with many other intellectuals of his period, Tevfik's satirical poetry critical of the conservative sultan Abdul Hamid II resulted in his exile to Egypt in 1903, which he later visited again between 1908 and 1913.\n\nNeyzen Tevfik's fame in popular Turkish culture is mainly due to his virtuosity with the ney. Moreover, he was also a heavy drinker while practicing a form of Islam as it was common among Bektashis. He therefore is also a symbol of a clash between the orthodox Islamic doctrine, and the Bektashi order that he was in, as illustrated in the following translation of his writing:\n\nHis religious views were highly mixed and tend to change in accordance with his mood. Yet, in his last years, he wrote a poem \"Türk'e Birinci Öğüt\" (First counsel to the Turk) in which a verse, regarding religious institutions mentioned before the verse, says:\n\n\"Varsa aslı bunların alemde siksinler beni.\"\n\nTherefore he can be considered a radical, if not directly atheist or non-theistic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1559293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1559293", "title": "Olam katan", "text": "Olam katan\n\nOlam katan (Hebrew עולם קטן \"Small World\") is a concept of Jewish philosophy that certain concepts mirror (in a kind of \"microcosm\") the world as a whole (the \"macrocosm\".) Its use probably originates from the Midrash (a section of the Midrash collection \"Otzar ha-Midrashim\" bears the title).\n\nMan is compared to a \"small world\". This is mirrored in the Talmudic statement that Adam's head originated in the Land of Israel and his trunk in Babylon (Tractate: Sanhedrin). It is similarly echoed in the famous statement that killing one person is comparable to destroying a whole world (Mishnah Sanhedrin 4:5).\n\nIn other Midrashic sources, the Tabernacle is referred to as a \"small world\", with its various objects mirroring both different astronomical concepts and certain organs in the human body.\n"}
{"id": "32160797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32160797", "title": "Our Lord's Sermon on the Mount", "text": "Our Lord's Sermon on the Mount\n\nOur Lord's Sermon on the Mount is a book by the 4th–5th-century saint Augustine of Hippo.\n\nAugustine undertook this work before working on the Pauline Epistles because he considered chapters 5–7 of the Gospel of Matthew (the Sermon on the Mount) \"a perfect standard of the Christian life\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11194463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11194463", "title": "Panentheism (Ismailism)", "text": "Panentheism (Ismailism)\n\nWith the exception of the Mustaali and Nizari Ismaili, most of other Ismaili Shi'a Muslims believe in panentheism, meaning God is both reality and transcendent of it. While the figure of the Godhead is beyond this universe, the Godhead has created reality, which is the Imam himself. All living beings exist in this reality, and to understand the Imam is to understand reality and truth and thereby gain salvation.\n"}
{"id": "1144320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1144320", "title": "Security dilemma", "text": "Security dilemma\n\nThe security dilemma, also referred to as the spiral model, is a term used in international relations and refers to a situation in which, under anarchy, actions by a state intended to heighten its security, such as increasing its military strength, committing to use weapons or making alliances, can lead other states to respond with similar measures, producing increased tensions that create conflict, even when no side really desires it.\n\nThe term was coined by the German scholar John H. Herz in his 1951 book \"Political Realism and Political Idealism\". At the same time British historian Herbert Butterfield described the same situation in his \"History and Human Relations\", but referred to it as the \"absolute predicament and irreducible dilemma\". In John Herz's words, the security dilemma is \"A structural notion in which the self-help attempts of states to look after their security needs tend, regardless of intention, to lead to rising insecurity for others as each interprets its own measures as defensive and measures of others as potentially threatening\".\n\nA frequently cited example of the security dilemma is the beginning of World War I. Supporters of this viewpoint argue that the major European powers felt forced to go to war by feelings of insecurity over alliances of their neighbours despite not actually wanting war. Furthermore, Germany's fear of fighting war on two fronts led it to the formulation of the infamous Schlieffen Plan, which specified a particularly accelerated mobilization timetable. The onset of German mobilization, in turn, put pressure on other states to start mobilizing early as well. However, other scholars dispute this interpretation of the origins of the war, contending that some of the states involved really wanted the conflict.\n\nThe security dilemma is a popular concept with cognitive and international relations theorists, who regard war as essentially arising from failures of communication. Functionalist theorists affirm that the key to avoiding war is the avoidance of miscommunication through proper signaling.\n\nThe security dilemma has important relationships with other theories and doctrines of international security. Part of the strength of the security dilemma theory is that it subsumes and is consistent with a number of other theories. Other theories can be considered in terms of the security dilemma.\n\nThe security dilemma is the core assumption of defensive realism. According to Kenneth Waltz, because the world does not have a common government and is \"anarchic\", survival is the main motivation of states. States are distrustful of other states' intentions and as a consequence always try to maximize their own security, which results in the situation of the security dilemma. Offense-defense theory of defensive realism is a potential theory to explain the level of threat arising from the security dilemma. Defensive realists often regard the success of the United States in World War I as being a result of the defensive approach taken by the United States. Had the United States taken an offensive stance, defensive realists argue that the United States would not have been secure. The conclusion from defensive realism is that in some circumstances states can escape the security dilemma.\n\nOffensive realism and defensive realism are variants of structural realism. They share the basic beliefs of survivalism, statism (state as the primary unit), self-help and anarchy. (See international relations theory.) However, contrary to defensive realism, offensive realism regards states as aggressive power maximizers and not as security maximizers. According to John Mearsheimer, \"Uncertainty about the intentions of other states is unavoidable, which means that states can never be sure that other states do not have offensive intentions to go along with their offensive capabilities\". According to Mearsheimer, though achieving hegemony by any state is not likely in today's international system, there is no such thing as a status quo and \"the world is condemned to perpetual great power competition\".\n\nOn the belief that the international system is anarchic and that each State must independently seek its own survival, Waltz argues that weaker states try to find a balance with their rivals and to form an alliance with a stronger state to obtain a guarantee of security against offensive action by an enemy state. On the other hand, Mearsheimer and other offensive realists argue that Anarchy encourages all states to always increase their own power because one state can never be sure of other states' intentions. In other words, defensive realism contends that security can be balanced in some cases and that the security dilemma is escapable. While offensive realists do not disagree, they do not agree fully with the defensive view instead contending that if states can gain an advantage over other states then they will do so. In short, since states want to maximize their power in this anarchic system and since states cannot trust one another, the security dilemma is inescapable.\n\nThe offense–defense theory of Robert Jervis helps decide the intensity of the security dilemma. Jervis uses four scenarios to describe the intensity of the security dilemma.\n\n\nAccording to Jervis, the technical capabilities of a state and its geographical position are two essential factors in deciding whether offensive or defensive action is advantageous. He argues that at a strategic level, technical and geographical factors are of greater favor to the defender. For example, in the 19th century railway and roads construction were rapidly changing the composition of capabilities of states to attack or defend themselves from other states. Thus, considerable effort in diplomatic relations and intelligence were specifically focused on this issue.\n\nThe spiral model identifies the next step in reasoning about states' behavior after identifying the intensity of the security dilemma. In particular, under given circumstances of the security dilemma, what steps might a threatened state take to derive advantage by attacking first. In other words, the spiral model seeks to explain war. In the spiral model of Jervis, there are two reasons why a state might end up in war. \"Preventive war\" might take place as one state might decide to attack first when it perceives the balance of power shifting to the other side creating an advantage in attacking sooner rather than later as conditions may not be as favorable in the future as in the present. \"Preemptive war\" might take place as a state might decide to attack another state first to prevent the other state from attacking or to obstruct the other state's attack because it fears the other state is preparing to attack.\n\nThe deterrence model is contrary to the spiral model, but also purports to explain war. While the spiral model presumes that states are fearful of each other, the deterrence model is based on the belief that states are greedy. Paul K. Huth divides deterrence into three main types:\n\n\n\"Under some circumstances attempts at deterrence can \"backfire\" when a potential attacker misinterprets the state's deterrence measures as a \"prelude to offensive measures\". In such cases the security dilemma can arise generating perceptions of a \"first strike advantage\". According to Huth \"most effective deterrence policies are those that decrease the expected utility of using force while not reducing the expected utility of the status quo; optimally deterrent policies would even increase the utility of not using the force.\" It is more likely that deterrence will succeed if the attacker finds deterrence threat \"credible\" and a credible deterrence threat might not necessarily be a military threat.\n\nJervis claims that the security dilemma can lead to arms races and alliance formation.\n\nAccording to Robert Jervis, since the world is anarchic, a state might, for defensive purposes, build its military capability. However, since states are not aware of each other's intentions, other states might interpret a defensive buildup as offensive; if so and if offensive action against the state that is only building its defenses is advantageous, the other states might prefer to take an aggressive stance, which will \"make the situation unstable\". In such situation, an arms race may become a strong possibility. Robert Jervis gives the example of Germany and Britain before World War I. \"Much of the behaviour in this period was the product of technology and beliefs that magnified the security dilemma\". In that example, strategists believed that offense would be more advantageous than defense, but that ultimately turned out to not be the case. Competition on nuclear weapons construction between the United States and the Soviet Union, during the Cold War, is a well-known example of an arms race.\n\nThe security dilemma might force states to form new alliances or to strengthen existing alliances. \"If offense has less advantage, stability and cooperation are likely\". According to Glenn H. Snyder, under a security dilemma there are two reasons that alliances will form. First, a state that is dissatisfied with the amount of security it has forms alliances in order to bolster its security. Second, a state is in doubt about the reliability of existing allies in coming to its aid, and thus decides to court another ally or allies. According to Thomas Christensen and Jack Snyder, in a multipolar world two types of alliance dilemma exist which are contrary in nature. These alliance dilemmas are known as chain ganging and buck passing.\n\nIn a multipolar world, alliance security is interconnected. When one ally decides to participate in war, it pulls its alliance partners into the war too, which is referred to as chain ganging. If the partner does not participate in the war fully, it will endanger the security of its ally. For example, in World War I, to the alliance between Austria-Hungary and Germany, according to Waltz, did this: \"If Austria-Hungary marched, Germany had to follow: the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire would have left Germany alone in the middle of Europe\". On the other side, if \"France marched, Russia had to follow; a German victory over France would be a defeat for Russia. And so it was all around the vicious circle, because the defeat or defection of a major alliance would have shaken the balance, each alliance partner would have shaken the balance, each state was constrained to adjust its strategy\".\n\nIn the face of a rising threat, balancing alignments fail to form in a timely fashion as states try to freeride on other states. States might do so to avoid the expense of war for themselves. For example, to use Waltz's example, in World War II, the French Foreign Minister told the British Prime Minister that Britain was justified in taking \"the lead in opposing Germany\" when the Nazis had taken over the Rhineland, but as \"the German threat grew\", French and Britain hoped that Germany and the Soviet Union \"would balance each other off or fight to the finish. Uncertainties about... who will gain or lose from the action of other states accelerate as number of states increases\".\n\nAccording to Alexander Wendt, \"Security dilemmas are not given by anarchy or nature\" but, rather, are \"a social structure composed of intersubjective understandings in which states are so distrustful that they make worst-case assumptions about each other's intentions\".\n\nGlaser argues that Wendt mischaracterised the security dilemma. \"Wendt is using the security dilemma to describe the result of states' interaction whereas Jervis and the literature he has spawned use the security dilemma to refer to a situation created by the material conditions facing states, such as geography and prevailing technology\". According to Wendt because the security dilemma is the result of one state's interaction with another, a state can adopt policies which hinder the security dilemma. Glaser blames Wendt for \"exaggerating the extent to which structural realism calls for competitive policies and, therefore, the extent to which it leads to security dilemmas\". Glaser argues that though offensive realists presume that in an international system a state has to compete for power, the security dilemma is a concept mainly used by defensive realists and according to defensive realists it is beneficial for nations to cooperate under certain circumstances.\n\nAnother mode of criticism of the security dilemma concept is to question the validity of the offence-defense balance. Since weapons of offense and of defense are the same, how can the distinction between the two be connected with a state's intentions? As a result, critics have questioned whether the offense-defense balance can be used as a variable in explaining international conflicts. According to Glaser, criticisms of the offense-defense balance are based on two misunderstandings. First, the sameness or difference of offensive weapons compared with defensive weapons does not impact the offense-defense balance itself. Offense-defense theory assumes that both parties in conflict will use those weapons that suit their strategy and goals. Second, whether both states involved in the conflict have some common weapons between them is the wrong question to ask in seeking to understand the offense-defense balance. Instead, critics should focus on the influence or net effect of weapons used in the conflict. According to Glaser, \"Distinguishability should be defined by comparative net assessment\" or the comparison of the balance of offense-defense when both sides use weapons versus when neither side is using weapons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33957251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33957251", "title": "Semiotics of music videos", "text": "Semiotics of music videos\n\nSemiotics in popular music, or mesomusica, is different from semiotics in other musical forms, because pop music denotes a cultural object. (Matusitz, 2004). Popular music has many signs in itself because it has many components and uses, but it also appeals to the emotions of a generation. Music is the “logical expression” of feelings, a “symbolic form”. Music videos are an example of syntagm, which interacting signifiers form a meaningful whole. Music videos are also considered multimodal genres because one semiotic system is joined syntagmatically to another semiotic system, which results in a signified indexical meaning. The process of music correlated with visuals can be described in terms of two basic mechanisms: temporal synchronicity and cross-modal homology. Incorporating the two modalities, sound and image, we can interpret it as a unified syntagm. Music videos are known to be visually secondary signified in combination with the semantic content of the lyrics. Semiotics in music videos is different from a pragmatic analysis because we can uphold that semiotics searches for meaning by considering sign production and progress, while pragmatics searches for meaning by considering the intentions of semantics and the context it has evolved in.\n\nThere are early critics of the importance of analyzing music videos as a semiotic system. Frederic Jameson's definition of music videos is a schizophrenic string of isolated, discontinued signifiers, failing to link up into a coherent sequence, as a string without a center.\n\nMany semiotic analysts have examined music videos to decode messages that are being sent to viewers. Invisible editing, a semiotic term, that film editors use to almost decode the message for the audience using narrative actions. Daniel Chandler's example from famous film editor, Ralph Rosenblum, \"a man awakens suddenly in the middle of the night, bolts up in bed, stares ahead intensely, and twitches his nose. Then the film directs towards a room where two people are desperately fighting a billowing blaze\"(Chandler, pp. 166, 2007). Because of the actions of the actors, the audience is aware of the next scene before it is shown. An example of invisible editing in music videos would be in narrative style, which consist of a plot and storyline of events and characters Michael Jackson's music video, \"Thriller\" is considered a narrative script, and it exceeds the song itself. In this case, the context of visual narrative semantically over-powers the meaning of the song itself. Many music videos use narrative style script, which is considered a more formal approach as the editing will add emphasis to the song's chorus, giving it a deeply ingrained musical archetype. Music videos that aren't formally organized usually have no segmentation markings that flow with the lyrics, and contain abstract images. \"Sledgehammer\", by Peter Gabriel is an example of formally unorganized music videos. In general, music videos contain visuals that either represent the potential connotative meaning of the lyrics or the visuals can represent a semiotic system of its own. Although many analysts explain the music video as being a narrative structure, there are many videos that defy narrative conventions.\n\nIntertextuality, for media purposes, references other popular culture objects within their video, and then the audience creates their meaning of the video according to the intentional suggestion created with relationships between primary and secondary texts. In general terms, intertextuality is considered links within a context or medium that bind text to other text (Chandler, pp. 166, 2007 ). Many editors and directors use intertextuality in music videos because it combines different cultural codes taken from previous texts that are sensible for many audiences. Using intertextuality in music videos allow a viewer to identify with their theoretical framework of knowledge, and use it to define their identity. This approach can be used to gain popularity for referenced ideas, and influence consumers with a persuasive agenda. \"Material Girl\", by Madonna is an example of using intertextuality because she is acting like Marilyn Monroe in \"Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend.\" This is a direct cinematic reference which allows an active audience to draw conclusions to the meaning of the message.\n\nIntratextuality is a term that is derived from intertextuality, but is considered combining secondary references for marketing and promotional purposes. This type of technique is also called anchorage, found by Roland Barthes: anchoring text to a context that changes the intentional meaning. An example of this would be, the music video, \"Right Now\", by Van Halen. The lyrics of the song \"Right Now\" suggest an entirely different meaning than the social empowering messages shown through the music video.\n\nBricolage is also an example of using many different texts within a context for promotional, marketing, or popularity value. Lady Gaga uses cultural bricolage in her music videos by using fashion and previous memorable characteristics of former pop stars. Michael Jackson's \"Leave Me Alone\" is also a form of bricolage because it is a collage of already popular people and pop culture artifacts combined to portray his own message.\n\n"}
{"id": "37810579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37810579", "title": "Shath", "text": "Shath\n\nIn the Islamic mystical tradition of Sufism, a shath ( \"šaṭḥ\", plural: \"šaṭaḥāt\" or \"šaṭḥiyyāt\") is an ecstatic utterance which may be outrageous in character. The word is derived from the root š-ṭ-ḥ, which carries the sense of overflowing or outpouring caused by agitation. Famous \"shathiyat\" include “Glory be to me, how great is my majesty” by Bayazid Bastami and “I am the Truth” by Mansur Al-Hallaj.\nSufi authors sometimes claimed that such utterances were misquotations or attributed them to immaturity, madness, or intoxication. At other times they regarded them as authentic expressions of spiritual states, even profoundest experience of divine realities, which should not be manifested to the unworthy. Many Sufi authors, including al-Ghazali, showed ambivalence about apparently blasphemous nature of some \"shathiyat\", while admiring the spiritual status of their authors.\n\nThe heyday of \"shath\" occurred during the classical period of Sufism from the ninth to twelfth century AD (the third to sixth century by Islamic count). The principal Sufi interpretation of the \"shathiyat\" which took the form of \"I am\" sayings contrasted the permanence of God (\"baqā’\") with the mystical annihilation of the individual ego (\"fanā’\"), which made it possible for God to speak through the individual. They later figured as \"topoi\" of Persian Sufi poetry (especially that of Farid al-Din Attar) before being reduced by later Sufis to mere allegories for Ibn Arabi's philosophy.\n\nBecause the legal notion of blasphemy was not clearly defined in Islamic law, \"shathiyat\" were treated inconsistently by legal authorities. In practice, since apostasy was subsumed in the category of \"zandaqa\", which reflected the Zoroastrian legacy of viewing heresy as a political crime, \"shathiyat\" were prosecuted only when it was desired by political authorities. Thus, such prosecutions mostly resulted from “personal vendetta, subversion of the state and party factionalism”. Because of their opposition to religious norms, these ecstatic utterances play an important role in the conception of Islamic Antinomianism.\n\n"}
{"id": "43042791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43042791", "title": "Sona Saila Maalai", "text": "Sona Saila Maalai\n\nThe Sona Saila Maalai is a collection of one hundred stanzas (\"Venpaas\") in Tamil written by the 17th-century poet and philosopher Siva Prakasar.\n\nThe hundred poems were compiled to illustrate various patterns of Thamizh grammar. Each poem of \"Sona saila maalai\" is generally named after its first few words.\n\nSiva Prakasar, a Tamil philosopher, sage, and poet, lived at the end of 17th century.\n"}
{"id": "56140188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56140188", "title": "Sérgio Paulo Rouanet", "text": "Sérgio Paulo Rouanet\n\nSérgio Paulo Rouanet (born 23 February 1934) is a Brazilian diplomat, philosopher, essayist and scholar. He was the national Secretary of Culture between 1991 and 1992, and in his tenure he created the \"Lei de Incentivo à Cultura\" (Culture Incentive Law), a tax credit law for companies and citizens that sponsor cultural activities, which became known as Rouanet Law.\n\nRouanet is also a member of the Brazilian Academy of Letters since 1992.\n\nBorn in Rio de Janeiro, he graduated in Social Sciences at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro. He got a master's degree in Political Science from Georgetown University, in Economics from George Washington University, Philosophy from the New York School for Social Research and also a doctorate from the University of São Paulo.\n\nRouanet was a general consul of Brazil in Zurich from 1976 to 1982 and Brazilian ambassador in Denmark from 1987 to 1991, when he was appointed by then president Fernando Collor de Mello to occupy the national Secretary of Culture. After Collor de Mello's impeachment, in 1992, Rouanet resigned and was appointed as general consul of Brazil in Berlin from 1993 to 1995 and ambassador in Czech Republic from 1995 to 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "3559953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3559953", "title": "Taranatha", "text": "Taranatha\n\nTāranātha (1575–1634) was a Lama of the Jonang school of Tibetan Buddhism. He is widely considered its most remarkable scholar and exponent.\n\nTaranatha was born in Tibet, supposedly on the birthday of Padmasambhava. His original name was Kun-dga'-snying-po, the Sanskrit equivalent of which is Anandagarbha. However, he adopted Taranatha, the Sanskrit name by which he was generally known, as an indication of the value he placed on his Sanskrit scholarship in an era when mastery of the language had become much less common in Tibet than it had once been. He was also paying homage to his Indian teacher, Buddhaguptanatha.\n\nHis exceptional qualities are said to have been recognized by others at a young age, as is often the case with great masters. He studied under such masters as Je Draktopa, Yeshe Wangpo, Kunga Tashi and Jampa Lhundrup, although his primary teacher was Buddhaguptanatha.\n\nTaranatha was recognized by Khenchen Lungrik Gyatso as the rebirth of Krishnacarya and the Khenchen's own teacher, Jetsun Kunga Drolchok.\n\nTaranatha was a prolific writer and a renowned scholar. His best known work is the 143-folio \"History of Buddhism in India\" (dpal dus kyi 'khor lo'i chos bskor gyi byung khungs nyer mkho) of 1608, which has been published in English. Other works are \"The Golden Rosary, Origins of the Tantra of the Bodhisattva Tara\" of 1604 which has also been translated into English. He was an advocate of the Shentong view of emptiness and wrote many texts and commentaries on this subject. English-language translation publications of his works on Shentong are \"The Essence of Other-Emptiness\" (which includes a translation of his \"Twenty One Profound Meanings\" (Zab don gсer gcig pa)) and his \"Commentary on the Heart Sutra\".\nIn 1614 Taranatha founded the important Jonangpa monastery Takten Dhamchöling, in the Tsangpo Valley about 200 miles west of Lhasa. After the forceful take-over by the Gelug in 1642, it became known as Ganden Puntsokling.\n\nTāranātha’s complete works in 45 volumes, Pe Cin edition\n\nTāranātha’s complete works in 23 volumes, 'Dzam Thang edition\n\nTāranātha's complete works in 17 volumes, Ladakh edition\n\nProbably not long after 1614, Taranatha went to Mongolia, where he reportedly founded several monasteries. He died probably in Urga. His rebirth became known as Zanabazar, the 1st Bogd Gegeen and Jebtsundamba Khutuktu of Mongolia. His most recent reincarnation was the 9th Jebtsundamba Khutughtu, who died in 2012.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21226469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21226469", "title": "Technocentrism", "text": "Technocentrism\n\nTechnocentrism is a value system that is centered on technology and its ability to control and protect the environment. Technocentrics argue that technology can address ecological problems through its problem-solving ability, efficiency, and its managerial means. Specifically, these capabilities allow humans control over nature, allowing them to correct or negotiate environmental risks or problems. Although technocentrics may accept that environmental problems exist, they do not see them as problems to be solved by a reduction in industry. Rather, environmental problems are seen as problems to be solved using rational, scientific and technological means. They also believe in scientific research. Indeed, technocentrics see the way forward for both developed and developing countries, and the solutions to environmental problems, as lying in scientific and technological advancement (sometimes referred to as sustainopreneurship).\n\nThe term was claimed to have been coined by Seymour Papert in 1987 as a combination of \"techno\"- and \"egocentrism\":\n\n\"I coined the word technocentrism from Piaget's use of the word egocentrism. This does not imply that children are selfish, but simply means that when a child thinks, all questions are referred to the self, to the ego. Technocentrism is the fallacy of referring all questions to the technology\".\n\nAmong the earliest references cited by O'Riordan in his book \"Environmentalism\" (which includes extensive discussion of ecocentric and technocentric modes of thought) is that of Hays in 1959 where technocentrism is characterised as: \n\"The application of rational and 'value-free' scientific and managerial techniques by a professional elite, who regarded the natural environment as 'neutral stuff' from which man could profitably shape his destiny\".\n\nTechnocentrism is often contrasted with ecocentrism. Ecocentrics, including deep ecologists, see themselves as being subject to nature, rather than in control of it. They lack faith in modern technology and the bureaucracy attached to it so they maintain responsibility for the environment. Ecocentrics will argue that the natural world should be respected for its processes and products and that low-impact technology and self-sufficiency is more desirable than technological control of nature. Fundamentally, ecocentrism maintains that concerns for the natural environment should dominate the needs of humankind, pitting it against the anthropocentric position of technocentrism, which pushes the needs of humans at the forefront even at the expense of everything else.\n\nThere are theorists who claim that despite their incompatibilities, technocentrism and ecocentrism can be integrated into one framework because they share several similarities. For instance, it is proposed that technocentrism can facilitate ecocentrism, particularly in the area of policymaking, through shared goals and shared recycled resources. There is also the case of the so-called sustaincentric worldview, which was developed as a product of ecocentric and technocentric views.\n\n"}
{"id": "28525031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28525031", "title": "Ted Hopf", "text": "Ted Hopf\n\nTed Hopf (born 1959) is an American academic and a leading figure in constructivism in international relations theory. He is currently a Professor of Political Science at the National University of Singapore (NUS). \n\nHopf earned a bachelor of arts from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University in 1983. In 1989 he earned a Ph.D. in political science from Columbia University.\n\nPreviously he taught at Ohio State University, Ohio University, and the University of Michigan. \n\nHis signature contribution to constructivism has been to bring the domestic into the theorization of how states acquire their identities. This provides a mid-range constructivism, below systemic, but avoiding the psychologism of individual levels of analysis. Hopf has also been a force in advocating the adoption of as many mainstream social science methodological techniques as possible so long as their adoption does not do violence to the interpretivist roots of constructivism. Most recently he has been exploring how habits contribute to a constructivist understanding of social order in world politics.\n\nHe has authored or edited five books. His 2002 \"Social Construction of International Politics: Identities and Foreign Policies, Moscow, 1955 and 1999\", published by Cornell University Press won the Marshall D. Shulman Award, presented by the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies, for the best book of 2003 on the international politics of the former Soviet Union and Central Europe. In April 2012, \"Reconstructing the Cold War: The Early Years, 1945–1958\", was published by Oxford University Press.\n"}
{"id": "40788000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40788000", "title": "The Sea That Thinks", "text": "The Sea That Thinks\n\nThe Sea That Thinks (Dutch: \"De zee die denkt\") is a 2000 Dutch experimental film directed by Gert de Graaff. The film makes heavily use of optical illusions to tell a \"story within a story\" revolving around a screenwriter writing a script called \"The Sea That Thinks\". The script details what is happening around him and eventually begins to affect what happens around him.\n\n"}
{"id": "42734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42734", "title": "Transcendental Meditation", "text": "Transcendental Meditation\n\nTranscendental Meditation (TM) refers to a specific form of silent mantra meditation called the Transcendental Meditation technique,<ref name=\"Britannica online/TM\"> </ref> and less commonly to the organizations that constitute the Transcendental Meditation movement. Maharishi Mahesh Yogi introduced the TM technique and TM movement in India in the mid-1950s.\n\nThe Maharishi taught thousands of people during a series of world tours from 1958 to 1965, expressing his teachings in spiritual and religious terms. TM became more popular in the 1960s and 1970s, as the Maharishi shifted to a more technical presentation, and his meditation technique was practiced by celebrities. At this time, he began training TM teachers and created specialized organizations to present TM to specific segments of the population such as business people and students. By the early 2000s, TM had been taught to millions of people, and the worldwide TM organization had grown to include educational programs, health products, and related services.\n\nThe TM technique involves the use of a sound called a mantra, and is practiced for 15–20 minutes twice per day. It is taught by certified teachers through a standard course of instruction, which costs a fee that varies by country. According to the Transcendental Meditation movement, it is a non-religious method for relaxation, stress reduction, and self-development. The technique has been seen as both religious and non-religious; sociologists, scholars, and a New Jersey judge and court are among those who have expressed views. The United States Court of Appeals upheld the federal ruling that TM was essentially \"religious in nature\" and therefore could not be taught in public schools.\n\nTM is one of the most widely practiced and researched meditation techniques. It is not possible to say whether it has any effect on health as the research, as of 2007, is of poor quality.\n\nTranscendental Meditation dates its origin back to the Vedic traditions of India. The Transcendental Meditation program and the Transcendental Meditation movement originated with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, founder of the organization, and continue beyond his death in 2008. In 1955, \"the Maharishi began publicly teaching a traditional meditation technique\" learned from his master Brahmananda Saraswati that he called Transcendental Deep Meditation and later renamed Transcendental Meditation.\nThe Maharishi initiated thousands of people, then developed a TM teacher training program as a way to accelerate the rate of bringing the technique to more people. He also inaugurated a series of world tours which promoted Transcendental Meditation. These factors, coupled with endorsements by celebrities who practiced TM and claims that scientific research had validated the technique, helped to popularize TM in the 1960s and 1970s. By the late 2000s, TM had been taught to millions of individuals and the Maharishi was overseeing a large multinational movement. Despite organizational changes and the addition of advanced meditative techniques in the 1970s, the Transcendental Meditation technique has remained relatively unchanged.\n\nAmong the first organizations to promote TM were the Spiritual Regeneration Movement and the International Meditation Society. In modern times, the movement has grown to encompass schools and universities that teach the practice, and includes many associated programs based on the Maharishi's interpretation of the Vedic traditions. In the U.S., non-profit organizations included the Students International Meditation Society, AFSCI, World Plan Executive Council, Maharishi Vedic Education Development Corporation, Global Country of World Peace and Maharishi Foundation. The successor to Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, and leader of the Global Country of World Peace, is Tony Nader.\n\nThe meditation practice involves the use of a mantra for 15–20 minutes twice per day while sitting with the eyes closed. It is reported to be one of the most widely practiced, and among the most widely researched, meditation techniques, with hundreds of published research studies. The technique is made available worldwide by certified TM teachers in a seven-step course, and fees vary from country to country. Beginning in 1965, the Transcendental Meditation technique has been incorporated into selected schools, universities, corporations, and prison programs in the US, Latin America, Europe, and India. In 1977 a US district court ruled that a curriculum in TM and the Science of Creative Intelligence (SCI) being taught in some New Jersey schools was religious in nature and in violation of the First Amendment of the United States Constitution. The technique has since been included in a number of educational and social programs around the world.\n\nThe Transcendental Meditation technique has been described as both religious and non-religious, as an aspect of a new religious movement, as rooted in Hinduism, and as a non-religious practice for self-development. The public presentation of the TM technique over its 50-year history has been praised for its high visibility in the mass media and effective global propagation, and criticized for using celebrity and scientific endorsements as a marketing tool. Also, advanced courses supplement the TM technique and include an advanced meditation program called the TM-Sidhi program.\n\nThe Transcendental Meditation movement refers to the programs and organizations connected with the Transcendental Meditation technique and founded by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. Transcendental Meditation was first taught in the 1950s in India and has continued since the Maharishi's death in 2008. The organization was estimated to have 900,000 participants worldwide in 1977, a million by the 1980s, and 5 million in more recent years, including some notable practitioners.\n\nPrograms include the Transcendental Meditation technique, an advanced meditation practice called the TM-Sidhi program (\"Yogic Flying\"), an alternative health care program called Maharishi Ayurveda, and a system of building and architecture called Maharishi Sthapatya Ved. The TM movement's past and present media endeavors include a publishing company (MUM Press), a television station (KSCI), a radio station (KHOE), and a satellite television channel (Maharishi Channel). During its 50-year history, its products and services have been offered through a variety of organizations, which are primarily nonprofit and educational. These include the Spiritual Regeneration Movement, the International Meditation Society, World Plan Executive Council, Maharishi Vedic Education Development Corporation, the Global Country of World Peace, and the David Lynch Foundation.\n\nThe TM movement also operates a worldwide network of Transcendental Meditation teaching centers, schools, universities, health centers, herbal supplements, solar panel, and home financing companies, plus several TM-centered communities. The global organization is reported to have an estimated net worth of USD 3.5 billion. The TM movement has been characterized in a variety of ways and has been called a spiritual movement, a new religious movement, a millenarian movement, a world affirming movement, a new social movement, a guru-centered movement, a personal growth movement, a religion, and a cult. Additional sources contend that TM and its movement are not a cult. Participants in TM programs are not required to adopt a belief system; it is practiced by atheists, agnostics and people from a variety of religious affiliations. The organization has also been criticized as well as praised for its public presentation and marketing techniques throughout its 50-year history.\n\nThe first studies of the health effects of Transcendental Meditation appeared in the early 1970s. Robert Keith Wallace, the founding president of Maharishi University of Management, published a study in \"Science\" in 1970 reporting that TM induced distinct physiologic changes and a novel state of consciousness in practitioners. In contrast, a 1976 study by independent researchers found that TM was biochemically similar to sitting with one's eyes closed. A second 1976 study of five subjects found that TM practitioners spent much of their meditation time napping rather than in the unique \"wakeful hypometabolic state\" described by Wallace. By 2004 the US government had given more than $20 million to Maharishi University of Management to study the effect of meditation on health.\n\nIt is not possible to say whether meditation has any effect on health, as the research is of poor quality, and is marred by a high risk for bias due to the connection of researchers to the TM organization and by the selection of subjects with a favorable opinion of TM. Most independent systematic reviews have not found health benefits for TM exceeding those produced by other relaxation techniques or health education. A 2013 statement from the American Heart Association said that TM could be considered as a treatment for hypertension, although other interventions such as exercise and device-guided breathing were more effective and better supported by clinical evidence. A 2014 systematic review and meta-analysis funded by the U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality found no evidence that mantra meditation programs such as TM were effective in reducing psychological stress or improving well-being. A 2015 systematic review and meta-analysis found that TM may effectively reduce blood pressure compared to a control groups, although the underlying studies may have been biased and further studies with better designs are needed to confirm these results. A 2014 Cochrane review found that it was impossible to draw any conclusions about whether TM is effective in preventing cardiovascular disease, as the scientific literature on TM was limited and at \"serious risk of bias\".\n\nIn the 1960s, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi described a paranormal effect claiming a significant number of individuals (1% of the people in a given area) practicing the Transcendental Meditation technique (TM) could have an effect on the local environment. This hypothetical influence was later termed the Maharishi Effect. With the introduction of the TM-Sidhi program in 1976, the Maharishi proposed that the square root of one percent of the population practicing the TM-Sidhi program, together at the same time and in the same place, would increase \"life-supporting trends\". This was referred to as the \"Extended Maharishi Effect\". Evidence, which TM practitioners believe supports the existence of the effect, has been said to lack a causal basis. The evidence was said to result from cherry-picked data and the credulity of believers.\n\n\n"}
