{"id": "11578046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11578046", "title": "1916 Zoning Resolution", "text": "1916 Zoning Resolution\n\nThe 1916 Zoning Resolution in New York City was the first citywide zoning code in the US. The zoning resolution reflected both borough and local interests, and was proposed after the development of 120 Broadway (the Equitable Building) in lower Manhattan. It was a measure adopted primarily to stop massive buildings from preventing light and air from reaching the streets below, and established limits in building massing at certain heights, usually interpreted as a series of setbacks and, while not imposing height limits, restricted towers to a percentage of the lot size. The chief authors of this resolution were George McAneny and Edward M. Bassett.\n\nThe 1916 Zoning Resolution had a major impact on urban development in the US and internationally. Architectural delineator Hugh Ferriss popularized these new regulations in 1922 through a series of massing studies, clearly depicting the possible forms and how to maximize building volumes. \"By the end of the 1920s the setback skyscraper, originally built in response to a New York zoning code, became a style that caught on from Chicago to Shanghai,\" observe Eric Peter Nash and Norman McGrath, discussing the Williamsburgh Savings Bank Building, which rose in isolation in Brooklyn, where no such zoning dictated form. The tiered Art Deco skyscrapers of the 1920s and 1930s are a direct result of this resolution.\n\nBy mid-century most new International Style buildings had met the setback requirements by adopting the use of plazas or low-rise buildings surrounding a monolithic tower centered on the site. This approach was criticized.\n\nIn 1961 the city reformed its zoning ordinance. The new zoning solution used the Floor Area Ratio (FAR) regulation instead of setback rules. A building’s maximum floor area is regulated according to the ratio that was imposed to the site where the building is located. Another feature of new zoning solution was adjacent public open space. If developers put adjacent public open space to their buildings, they could get additional area for their building as a bonus. This incentive bonus rule was created because of the strong influence from two representative skyscrapers. The Seagram building by Mies van der Rohe with Philip Johnson, and the Lever House by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill introduced the new ideas about office building with open space. These buildings changed the skyline of New York City with both the advent of simple glass box design and their treatment of adjacent open spaces. The new zoning encouraged privately owned public space to ease the density of the city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9636670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9636670", "title": "Aggravated felony", "text": "Aggravated felony\n\nThe term aggravated felony was created by the United States Congress as part of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) to define a special category of criminal offenses. The INA says that some aliens \"convicted of an aggravated felony shall be considered to have been convicted of a particularly serious crime.\" Every \"legal immigrant,\" including a \"national but not a citizen of the United States,\" who has been convicted of any aggravated felony is statutorily barred from obtaining citizenship of the United States. Other than a refugee, every alien who has been convicted of any aggravated felony is statutorily barred from receiving a visa or being admitted to the United States, unless its \"term of imprisonment was completed within the previous 15 years.\"\n\nWhen the aggravated felony was introduced in 1988, as a response to heightened concerns about drug abuse, it encompassed only murder and felony trafficking in drugs and/or firearms (but not long shotguns, long rifles, and/or ammunition of such legal weapons). Every conviction covered by the aggravated felony was manifestly a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year. The 1996 enactment of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA) and the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA) tremendously expanded the aggravated felony definition by adding a great many more criminal convictions. The chart at the bottom lists all the aggravated felonies.\n\nThe INA states that \"[t]he term 'alien' means any person not a citizen or national of the United States.\" The terms \"inadmissible aliens\" and \"deportable aliens\" are synonymous, which mainly refer to the INA violators among the 75 million foreign nationals who are admitted each year as guests, the 12 million or so illegal aliens, and the INA violators among the 400,000 foreign nationals who possess the temporary protected status (TPS).\n\nA legal immigrant, particularly one who was admitted as a refugee pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1157(c), can either be an alien or a national of the United States (American), which requires a case-by-case analysis and depends mainly on the number of continuous years he or she has spent in the United States as a lawful permanent resident (LPR).\n\nU.S. Presidents and the U.S. Congress have expressly favored some \"legal immigrants\" because the U.S. Attorney General had admitted them to the United States as refugees, i.e., people who experienced genocides in the past and have no safe country of permanent residence other than the United States. Removing such protected people from the United States constitutes a grave international crime, especially if they qualify as Americans or have physically and continuously resided in the United States for at least 10 years without committing (in those 10 years) any offense that triggers removability.\n\nIn \"Landon v. Plasencia\", 459 U.S. 21, 32 (1982), the U.S. Supreme Court reminded all U.S. immigration officials that \"once an alien gains admission to our country and begins to develop the ties that go with permanent residence, his constitutional status changes accordingly.\" That opinion was issued after Congress and the Reagan administration \"firmly resettled\" in the United States thousands of refugee families from totalitarian states, such as Afghanistan, Cambodia, Cuba, Laos, Vietnam, etc. As U.N.-recognized refugees, these people permanently lost their homes, farms, businesses, properties, livelihood, relatives, etc. They also lost their former nationalities after obtaining permanent resident cards (green cards) of the United States, and then gradually became Americans.\n\nIn 1986, less than a year before the United Nations Convention against Torture (CAT) became effective, Congress expressly and intentionally expanded the definition of \"nationals but not citizens of the United States\" by adding paragraph (4) to 8 U.S.C. § 1408, which reads as follows:\n\nThe natural reading of § 1408(4) demonstrates that it was not exclusively written for the 55,000 American Samoans but for all people who statutorily and manifestly qualify as \"nationals but not citizens of the United States.\" This means that any person who can show by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she meets (or at any time has met) the requirements of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1408(4), 1427, 1429, 1436, and/or 1445, is plainly and unambiguously an American. Such person must never be labelled or treated as an alien. \"Deprivation of [nationality]—particularly American [nationality], which is one of the most valuable rights in the world today—has grave practical consequences.\" This legal finding \"is consistent with one of the most basic interpretive canons, that a statute should be construed so that effect is given to all its provisions, so that no part will be inoperative or superfluous, void or insignificant.\"\n\nIn 1988, Congress introduced the term \"aggravated felony\" by defining it under 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a). The definition of the term gradually expanded over the years, and applies (for U.S. citizenship purposes) to offenses that were committed at any time in the past. In February 1995, U.S. President Bill Clinton issued a directive in which he expressly stated the following: \n\nDespite what President Clinton said in the above directive, some plainly incompetent immigration officers waged an unlawful war against those who were not U.S. citizens. They began this by arresting and deporting long-settled legal immigrants (i.e., potential Americans). Many of these legal immigrants were \"firmly resettled\" and non-deportable refugees, who statutorily qualified as Americans after continuously residing in the United States for at least 10 years without committing any offense that triggers removability. This appears to be the reason why the permanent resident card (green card) is valid for 10 years. It was expected that all refugees in the United States would obtain U.S. citizenship within 10 years from the date of their first lawful entry, but if that was unachievable then they would statutorily become \"nationals but not citizens of the United States\" after such continuous 10 years successfully elapse. They obviously owe permanent allegiance solely to the government of the United States, and that makes them nothing but Americans. Anything to the contrary manifestly constitutes deprivation of their legal rights.\n\nAn aggravated felony conviction affects both aliens and \"nationals but not citizens of the United States.\" The INA makes clear that any such person who at any time has been convicted of any aggravated felony, whether the aggravated felony was committed inside or outside the United States, is \"debarred from becoming a citizen of the United States.\" However, unlike a \"national but not a citizen of the United States,\" an alien convicted of any aggravated felony is removable from the United States as an aggravated felon, unless its \"term of imprisonment was completed within the previous 15 years.\" In other words, such alien cannot:\n\nAn \"order of deportation\" may be reviewed at any time by any immigration judge or any BIA member and finally by any authorized federal judge. Particular cases, especially those that were adjudicated in any U.S. district court prior to the enactment of the Real ID Act of 2005, can be reopened under Rule 60 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The review of the order does not require the alien (or the American) to remain in the United States. It can be requested from anywhere in the world \"via\" mail (e.g., DHL, FedEx, UPS, Canada Post, etc.) and/or electronic court filing (ECF), and the case can be filed in any court the alien (or the American) finds appropriate.\n\nEvery illegal deportation claim, United States nationality claim, and CAT or asylum claim is adjudicated under 8 U.S.C. §§ 1252(a)(4), 1252(b)(4), 1252(b)(5), and 1252(f)(2). When these specific provisions are invoked, all other contrary provisions of law, especially § 1252(b)(1) and any related case law, must be disregarded because these three claims manifestly constitute exceptional circumstances. In removal proceedings, the focus is simply on whether or not the person belongs in the United States as a matter of law. If he or she does then dismissing the case for lack of jurisdiction or delaying relief is plainly counterproductive. The Supreme Court has pointed out in 2009 that \"the context surrounding IIRIRA's enactment suggests that § 1252(f)(2) was an important—not a superfluous—statutory provision.\" In this regard, Congress has long warned U.S. public officials by expressly stating the following:\n\nAccording to § 1252(f)(1), \"no court (other than the Supreme Court)\" is authorized to determine which two or more people in removal proceedings should be recognized as nationals of the United States (Americans). This includes parents and children or relatives. The remaining courts, however, are fully empowered by §§ 1252(b)(5) and 1252(f)(2) to, \"inter alia\", issue an injunction to cancel or terminate any person's removal proceedings; return any removed person to the United States; and/or to confer United States nationality upon any person (but only using a case-by-case analysis). In addition to that, under , any officer mentioned in may at any time move to: (1) terminate the case of any person who turns out to be an American; or (2) cancel the removal of anyone who is clearly not removable under the INA. The burden is on the alien (or the American) to establish eligibility for relief.\n\nAccording to the Third Circuit, New York's misdemeanor \"petit larceny\" qualifies as an aggravated felony under but only if the trial court or sentencing court orders at least one year of imprisonment. Any \"street time\" (i.e., period of probation, parole, or supervised release) that was ordered by the court as part of the defendant's sentence or punishment does not count as term of imprisonment. A sentence of imprisonment with parole is called a \"bifurcated sentence,\" and various U.S. courts of appeals have held that this is not a suspended sentence. Regarding the legal conflict between an aggravated felony and a misdemeanor, Judge Edward Becker of the Third Circuit stated the following:\n\nIt is important to note that a court cannot defy a clearly-established law. Under the INA, a crime must be punishable by imprisonment for a term \"exceeding\" one year in order to be considered a \"crime involving moral turpitude\" or an aggravated felony. Anything to the contrary will lead to an absurd result and a blatant violation of the U.S. Constitution. Plus, it will damage the reputation of the appellate court, which suppose to play a more neutral role in removal proceedings under the INA because they are obviously not criminal proceedings. Congress has long stated in that \"[t]he term [aggravated felony] does not include . . . any State offense classified by the laws of the State as a misdemeanor and punishable by a term of imprisonment of two years or less.\" This expressed language of Congress was in effect in 1988 (when the aggravated felony was coined for the first time) and is still in effect today.\n\nSection 921(a)(20) applies to the entire Chapter 44 (§§ 921-931) of title 18. As such, § 921(a)(20) controls 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(43), especially subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), and (G). Under § 921(a)(20), Congress says this: \"What constitutes a conviction of such a crime shall be determined in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction in which the proceedings were held.\" This simply means that the federal felony definition controls in all immigration-related cases. More importantly, in § 927 (\"Effect on State law\"), Congress expressly states: \"No provision of this chapter shall be construed as indicating an intent on the part of the Congress to occupy the field in which such provision operates to the exclusion of the law of any State on the same subject matter. . . .\" The phrase \"[n]o provision of this chapter\" statutorily covers (among many other crimes) every crime of violence and theft. See also the below section: \"Comparison of an aggravated felony to a crime involving moral turpitude\".\n\nIn 2001, the Fifth Circuit held \"that because intentional force against the person or property of another is seldom, if ever, employed to commit the offense of felony DWI, such offense is not a crime of violence within the meaning of .\" Later in the same year, the Third Circuit held that unintentional vehicular homicide is not an aggravated felony under . In \"Leocal v. Ashcroft\", , the U.S. Supreme Court held that driving under the influence is not an aggravated felony if the DUI statute that defines the offense does not contain a \"mens rea\" element or otherwise allows a conviction for merely negligent conduct.\n\nIn \"Popal v. Gonzales\", 416 F.3d 249 (3d Cir. 2005), the Third Circuit held that a Pennsylvania \"simple assault,\" which is a misdemeanor of the second degree (punishable by two years or less), does not constitute a crime of violence under § 16(a) and is therefore not an aggravate felony. \"And the Supreme Court recently declared, in \"Sessions v. Dimaya\", 138 S. Ct. 1204, 1223 (2018), that § 16(b) is unconstitutionally vague and, therefore, cannot be the basis for an aggravated felony.\"\n\nThe term \"crime involving moral turpitude\" (CIMT) in the INA refers to a specific criminal conviction in which a court of law has imposed upon an alien a \"term of imprisonment in excess of 6 months (regardless of the extent to which the sentence was ultimately executed).\" Congress made a clear distinction between \"permanent residents\" and \"nonpermanent residents\" in this regard. In the case of a permanent resident, the CIMT must be committed within 5 years of his or her admission to the United States. However, despite the obvious differences, both classes of aliens are statutorily entitled to waiver of inadmissibility and cancellation of removal, so long as \"the maximum penalty possible for the crime of which the alien[s] w[ere] convicted . . . did not exceed imprisonment for one year . . . .\" (emphasis added). Any period of incarceration or confinement that was subsequently added due to probation/parole violation plainly does not count. If the total period served inside a penal institution (for all past convictions) was less than 180 days (6 months), the permanent resident is manifestly entitled to U.S. nationality and citizenship, provided that the remaining nationality and citizenship requirements are fulfilled. Such person may be naturalized in the United States or (in particular cases) at any U.S. embassy around the world.\n\nThe consequences of making a crime an \"aggravated felony\" are far reaching. One major consequence is that, unlike the deportation ground for a CIMT, an aggravated felony does not necessarily have to be committed within five years from the alien's entry or admission to the United States to make him or her removable. In other words, an alien who cannot demonstrate U.S. nationality is removable even if he or she has committed an aggravated felony in a foreign country before entering the United States. In this regard, the INA expressly states the following:\n\n\"The ordinary meaning of 'notwithstanding' is 'in spite of,' or 'without prevention or obstruction from or by.'\" Congress is clearly and unambiguously saying that the penultimate provision under 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(43), as quoted above,\ncontrols over § 1101(f)(8), 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), 1427(a), etc. \"In statutes, the [notwithstanding any other provision of law] 'shows which provision prevails in the event of a clash.'\" Courts have explained that \"the phrase 'notwithstanding any other provision of law' expresses the legislative intent to override all contrary statutory and decisional law.\" What this means is that holdings such as \"Stone v. INS\", 514 U.S. 386, 405 (1995) (case obviously decided prior to IIRIRA of 1996, which materially changed the old \"judicial review provisions of the INA\"), are statutorily not binding upon any agency or any court. Congress clearly spoken about this at (eff. 1996). Its intent was sufficiently shown when amending § 1252 during the enactment of the Real ID Act of 2005. There, it added \"(statutory or nonstatutory)\" after every relevant \"notwithstanding any other provision of law\" in § 1252. The overall purpose of this is obviously to protect the United States and the over 13 million lawful permanent residents against lawless government actions. In other words, the lives of these vulnerable people should not be in the hands of a few judges, who often make serious reversible errors in immigration-related cases. An unknown number of these legal immigrants statutorily qualify as Americans. The job of Congress is to equally protect everyone in the United States, not only those who merely possess a simple paper showing U.S. citizenship. In many cases, such documents are forged and/or criminally obtained. Congress instructed the courts by using plain language in § 1252(f)(2) (\"Particular cases\") to apply a case-by-case analysis and \"de novo\" review.\n\nEvery non-immigrant convicted of any aggravated felony and lawfully deported \"must remain outside of the United States for twenty consecutive years from the deportation date before he or she is eligible to re-enter the United States.\" That stringent rule, however, does not apply to legal immigrants who have been deported as aggravated felons. An unknown number of previously removed aliens are residing inside the United States, some of whom have been removed from the United States about a dozen of times.\n\nAccording to , it is a federal crime for any non-criminal alien to illegally enter the United States after that alien has been denied entry, excluded, removed, deported, or if he or she has departed the United States while an order of removal was outstanding. The maximum sentence for this crime is 2 years of imprisonment. However, if he or she was a criminal alien and \"whose removal was subsequent to a conviction for commission of three or more misdemeanors involving drugs, crimes against the person, or both, or a felony (other than an aggravated felony), such alien shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.\" \n\nThe penalty can be increased to as high as 20 years of imprisonment in the case of an alien convicted for illegally reentering the United States after he or she was lawfully deported as an aggravated felon. Such penalty, however, is extremely rare since no alien has received that many years of imprisonment. Most defendants in such cases receive around 5 years of imprisonment. In \"Almendarez-Torres v. United States\", , the U.S. Supreme Court held that this increased maximum sentence did not violate the Sixth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The only person saved from guilt and serving any imprisonment for illegal reentry after deportation is someone like the petitioner in \"United States v. Aguilera-Rios\", 769 F.3d 626, 628-29 (9th Cir. 2014), who \"was not originally removable as charged, and so could not be convicted of illegal reentry.\"\n\nThis article in most part is based on law of the United States, including statutory and latest published case law.\n"}
{"id": "20847966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20847966", "title": "Allcard v Skinner", "text": "Allcard v Skinner\n\nAllcard v Skinner (1887) 36 Ch D 145 is a judicial decision under English law dealing with undue influence. \n\nMiss Allcard was introduced by the Revd Mr Nihill to Miss Skinner, a lady superior of a religious order named \"Protestant Sisters of the Poor\". She had to observe vows of poverty and obedience. Three days after becoming a member, Miss Allcard made a will bequeathing all property to Miss Skinner, and passed on railway stock that she came into possession of in 1872 and 1874. She then claimed the money back after she left the sisterhood.\n\nLindley LJ, held that she was unduly influenced but barred by laches from getting restitution. And in any case she would only have been able to recover as much of the gift as remained in the defendant’s hands after some of it had been spent in accordance with her wishes.\n\nCotton LJ said,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2240220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240220", "title": "BLIPS", "text": "BLIPS\n\nBLIPS is an acronym for \"Bond Linked Issue Premium Structure\", or \"Bond Linked Investment Premium Strategy\". It is a type of tax shelter involving investors who take out bank loans that the government considers illegitimate. These loans are then shifted to partnerships to claim tax losses.\n\nBLIPS are invalid in the eyes of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).\n\nBLIPS represent one of four abusive tax shelters that the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations investigated in 2003. The Subcomittee found that KPMG had sold to at least 350 people from 1997 to 2001, earning fees of $124 million. Those shelters cost the Treasury at least $1.4 billion in unpaid taxes, according to the subcommittee. In the investigation, KPMG argued that investors knew they were taking a risk that the IRS might not accept the claims.\n"}
{"id": "17804595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17804595", "title": "British and Irish Association of Law Librarians", "text": "British and Irish Association of Law Librarians\n\nThe British and Irish Association of Law Librarians (BIALL, http://www.biall.org.uk/) is a professional body which represents information professionals working with legal information. BIALL is a self-supporting association which draws its income primarily from membership subscriptions.\n\nBIALL was set up in 1969 following workshops on law librarianship held at Harrogate in 1968 and 1969. Two strands led to the formation of BIALL. Firstly, the law librarians in London, Oxford, Cambridge and Ireland had been in contact and working together since the late 1940s, reinforced by their membership of the International Association of Law Librarians (IALL). Secondly, the outreach programme of Leeds Library School led to one of the School’s staff, Don Daintree, organising Workshops on Law Librarianship in Harrogate in 1968 and 1969. They brought together the foremost law library figures as speakers and those few people who were working in law libraries as students of the Workshops. The inspiration for the Workshops was the Library Association’s List C papers on the bibliography and librarianship of subjects.\n\nThe 1st Harrogate Workshop in February was held at the Russell Hotel and a meeting at the end of the Workshop set up an ad hoc Committee to look into the possibility of establishing an association of law librarians. Committee members were Wallace Breem, Don Daintree, Betty Moys, Willi Steiner and Derek Way. The 2nd Harrogate Workshop in April concluded with a meeting which set up an Association of Law Librarians. This was the inaugural meeting and those who were present are BIALL’s founder members. The first AGM was held in a basement room of the old IALS building in Russell Square on Monday 22 September. It was chaired by Willi Steiner, several hours were spent debating the minutiae of the draft Constitution. One of the decisions was to form a separate organisation, not affiliated to, or part of, the Library Association, resulting from strong arguments that organisations (especially law firms) who had no professional librarians, would be excluded from membership if the Association were part of the LA. The principle of welcoming professionally qualified and non-qualified law librarians into BIALL has prevailed ever since.\n\nThe first officers were Don Daintree (Chairman), Wallace Breem (Secretary and Treasurer) and Betty Moys (Editor). An Executive Committee was subsequently elected and in November it set up a Sub-Committee of Betty Moys, Allan Appleby of Sweet and Maxwell, and Wallace Breem to produce a journal.\n\nBIALL organises an annual Conference every year which all BIALL members are invited to attend. The Conference is an opportunity to listen to talks delivered by Legal Information Professionals and Industry experts as well as network with colleagues. The most recent Conference took place in Birmingham on 7th-9th June 2018, with the next conference (the 50th anniversary of both the organisation, and the conference) taking place in Bournemouth in June 2019.\n\nPrevious Conferences have taken place in Manchester (2017), Dublin (2016), Brighton (2015), Harrogate (2014), Glasgow (2013), Belfast (2012), Gateshead (2011), Brighton (2010), Manchester (2009), Dublin (2008), Sheffield (2007), Brighton (2006), Harrogate (2005), Edinburgh (2004), and Cardiff (2003).\n\nBIALL administers and presents several awards at its annual conference dinner including the BIALL Supplier of the Year Award, the LexisLibrary Awards (formerly the Halsbury's Awards), the biannual Wallace Breem Award, the Betty Moys Award, the Legal Journals Award, and the Wildy Law Librarian of the Year Award.\n\nLegal Information Management\nhttp://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayJournal?jid=LIM\n\nHandbook of Legal Information Management, 2nd ed (2014)\n\nMoys Classification and Thesaurus for Legal Materials (2012)\n\n"}
{"id": "21507148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21507148", "title": "Captive killer whales", "text": "Captive killer whales\n\nCaptive killer whales are live killer whales (Orcinus orca) which are held in captivity by humans, often for breeding or performance purposes. The practice of capturing and displaying these whales in exhibitions began in the 1960s, soon becoming popular attractions at public aquariums and aquatic theme parks due to their intelligence, trainability, striking appearance, playfulness, and sheer size. As of September, 2016, there were 56 orcas in captivity worldwide, 33 of which are captive-born. There are 13 live orcas in the Seaworld parks.\n\nThe practice of keeping killer whales in captivity is controversial, due to the separation of their familial \"pod\" during capture, and their living conditions and health in captivity. There have been 4 human deaths involving orcas as of 2018, 3 of which involved a whale called Tilikum. Of the reported killer whale attacks in the wild, none have been fatal. \n\nKiller whales are large, active and intelligent. Males range from and weigh over , while females range from and weigh . The killer whale (\"Orcinus orca\") is the largest species of the Dolphin family. The species is found in all the world's oceans, from the frigid Arctic and Antarctic regions to warm, tropical seas. Killer whales are intelligent, versatile and opportunistic predators. Some populations feed mostly on fish, and other populations hunt marine mammals, including sea lions, seals, walruses, dolphins, large whales and some species of shark. They are considered an apex predator, as no animal predates on them. There are up to five distinct killer whale types, some of which may be separate races, subspecies or even species. Killer whales are highly social; some populations are composed of matrilineal family groups, which are the most stable of any animal species. The sophisticated social behavior, hunting techniques, and vocal behavior of killer whales have been described as manifestations of animal culture.\n\nAlthough killer whales are not an endangered species, some local populations are threatened or endangered due to bioaccumulation of PCBs pollution, depletion of prey species, captures for marine mammal parks, conflicts with fishing activities, acoustic pollution, shipping vessels, stress from whale-watching boats, and habitat loss.\n\nIt is extremely difficult to capture killer whales and to provide a healthy environment for the captives. Early attempts in the 1960s caused many injuries and deaths. However, with experience the teams who specialized in the business became more adept and post-capture survival rates improved. Live captures peaked in the early 1970s, but have become increasingly rare as the marine parks have learned how to maintain theme park populations through captive breeding and artificial insemination.\n\nThe first capture in the North Eastern Pacific occurred in November 1961. A collecting crew from Marineland of the Pacific in Los Angeles, took the orca to a tank at the aquarium, where she repeatedly crashed into the walls. She was named Wanda and died the following day. The next killer whale captured, Moby Doll, had been harpooned and shot in 1964 and survived for three months when brought back for display to Vancouver, British Columbia. The third capture for display occurred in June 1965 when William Lechkobit found a 22-foot (6.7m) male orca in his floating salmon net that had drifted close to shore near Namu, British Columbia. The killer whale was sold for $8,000 to Ted Griffin, a Seattle public aquarium owner. Named after his place of capture, Namu was the subject of a film that changed some people's attitudes toward orcas.\n\nIn October 1965, Shamu, a very young, 14 foot (4.25m), 2000 lb (900 kg) Southern Resident orca was captured by Ted Griffin off Penn Cove, Puget Sound to be a companion for the orca Namu at Griffin's Seattle public aquarium. Her name means ‘Friend of Namu’ (alternately 'She-Namu'). However, Shamu did not get along with Namu and so was sold to SeaWorld in San Diego in December 1965.\n\nDuring the 1960s and early 1970s, nearly 50 killer whales were taken from Pacific waters for exhibition. The Southern Resident community of the Northeast Pacific lost 48 of its members to captivity. By 1976, only 80 killer whales were left in the community, which remains endangered. With subsequent captures, the theme parks learned more about avoiding injury during capture and subsequent care of killer whales, and discovered that they could be trained to perform tricks, making them a great attraction to visitors. As commercial demand increased, growing numbers of Pacific orcas were captured, peaking in 1970.\n\nA turning point came with a mass capture of orcas from the L-25 pod in August 1970 at Penn Cove, Puget Sound off the coast of Washington. The Penn Cove capture became controversial due to the large number of wild killer whales that were taken (seven) and the number of deaths that resulted: four juveniles died, as well as one adult female who drowned when she became tangled in a net while attempting to reach her calf. In his interview for the CNN documentary \"Blackfish\", former diver John Crowe told how all five of the whales had their abdomen slit open and filled with rocks, their tails weighted down with anchors and chains, in an attempt to conceal the deaths. The facts surrounding their deaths were discovered three months later after three of the dead whales washed ashore on Whidbey Island. Public concern about the welfare of the animals and the effect of captures on the wild pods led to the Marine Mammal Protection Act being passed in 1972 by the US Congress, protecting orcas from being harassed or killed, and requiring special permits for capture. Since then, few wild orcas have been captured in Northeastern Pacific waters.\n\nLolita, originally known as Tokitae, was a survivor of the Penn Cove captures. She was about six years old at time of capture and is now the oldest captive killer whale. Lolita is the subject of the documentary \"Lolita: Slave to Entertainment\", released in 2008. Various groups still argue that Lolita should be released into the wild.\n\nWhen the US Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 effectively stopped the capture of Pacific orcas, exhibitors found an area more tolerant of killer whale captures in Iceland. Icelandic herring fishermen had traditionally seen killer whales as competitors for their catch, and sale of live killer whales promised a large new source of income. 48 live killer whales captured in Icelandic waters were exported to marine parks between 1976 and 1988. The capture process was based on luring the orcas by dumping leftovers from herring fishing in front of the pod, capturing the killer whales in a purse seine net, selecting desirable animals and hauling them on board in a specially designed frame, then placing them in foam-lined boxes full of seawater. However, restrictions on US killer whale import permits and advances in captive breeding programs meant that the market never became as large as expected. Growing concern from conservationists and animal rights activists has caused the Icelandic government to limit the number of orcas that may be captured each year.\n\nPerhaps the best known of the Icelandic captives is Keiko, caught in 1979 and sold to the Icelandic aquarium in Hafnarfjörður. Three years later, he was sold to Marineland Canada, where he first started performing for the public and developed skin lesions indicative of poor health. He was then sold to Reino Aventura (now named Six Flags Mexico), an amusement park in Mexico City, in 1985. He was the star of the 1993 movie \"Free Willy\", the publicity from which led to an effort by Warner Brothers Studio to find him a better home. Using donations from the studio, Craig McCaw the Oregon Coast Aquarium in Newport, Oregon spent over $7 million to construct facilities to return him to health with the hope of returning him to the wild. He was airlifted to his new home in January 1996, where he soon regained weight. In September 1998, he was flown to Klettsvik Bay in Vestmannaeyjar in Iceland, and gradually reintroduced to the wild, returning to the open sea in July 11, 2002. Keiko died from pneumonia in December 12, 2003 at the age of 27 years. He had become lethargic and had a loss of appetite.\n\n1,477 killer whales were hunted in Japanese waters between 1948 and 1972, 545 of them around Hokkaido. Killer whale encounters in Japanese waters are now rare. In 1997 a group of ten killer whales was corralled by Japanese fisherman banging on iron rods and using water bombs to disorient the animals and force them into a bay near Taiji, Wakayama, a technique known as dolphin drive hunting which these villagers have been practising for years. The orcas were held in the bay for two days before being auctioned to Japanese marine parks. Five animals were released, and the other five transported via road or sea to the aquariums. All five are dead.\n\nThe first live killer whale captured in Russia was an -long female estimated to be about six years old, captured off the Pacific coast of the Kamchatka district on September 26, 2003. She was transferred over to a facility owned by the Utrish Dolphinarium on the Black Sea, where she died in October 2003 after less than a month in captivity.\n\nThe majority of today's theme-park killer whales were born in captivity: 33 out of 56. Kalina, a female orca born in September 1985 at SeaWorld Orlando, was the first captive orca calf to survive more than two months. Kalina's mother is an Icelandic female named Katina, and her father, Winston (also known as Ramu III), was a Pacific Southern Resident, making Kalina an Atlantic/Pacific hybrid – a unique situation that would not have occurred in the wild.\n\nThe first killer whale conceived through artificial insemination was Nakai, who was born to Kasatka at the SeaWorld park in San Diego in September 2001. A female killer whale named Kohana, the second killer whale conceived in this manner, was born at the same park eight months later. Artificial insemination lets park owners maintain a healthier genetic mix in the small groups of killer whales at each park while avoiding the stress of moving the animals between marinas.\n\nThe practice of exhibiting killer whales born in captivity is less controversial than of retaining free-born orcas, since the captive-born orcas have known no other world and may not be able to adapt to life in the wild. Captive breeding also promises to reduce incentives to capture wild orcas. However, in January 2002 the Miami Seaquarium stated that captive orcas are dying faster than they are being born, and as it is virtually impossible to obtain orcas captured from the wild, the business of exhibiting captive orcas may eventually disappear.\n\nAs of September 29, 2016, orcas in 13 facilities in North and South America, Europe and Asia provide entertainment for theme park visitors. Building the physical infrastructure of the parks requires major capital expenditure, but as the star attractions the orcas are arguably the most valuable and irreplaceable assets.\n\nSeaWorld is a chain of marine mammal parks in the United States and is the largest owner of captive killer whales in the world. The parks feature killer whale, sea lion, and dolphin shows and zoological displays featuring various other marine animals. The parks' icon is Shamu, the orca. Parks include:\n\nThere was also a fourth park named SeaWorld Ohio, but the park closed in 2001.\n\nThe Miami Seaquarium is an aquarium located on Virginia Key in Biscayne Bay near downtown Miami, Florida. A subsidiary of the privately held Wometco Enterprises, the Seaquarium was the first major marine park attraction in South Florida, opening in 1955. In addition to marine mammals, the Miami Seaquarium houses fish, sharks, sea turtles, birds and reptiles. It is home to Lolita (aka Tokitae), the oldest killer whale in captivity.\n\nMarineland is a privately held themed amusement and animal exhibition park in the city of Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada. Owing to its proximity to the falls and other natural park areas and its blend of animal attractions and rides, it is one of the main tourist destinations in Niagara Falls, in Ontario, Canada. It currently only holds Kiska.\n\nIn 2015, the House of Commons passed Bill S-203, Ending the Captivity of Whales and Dolphins Act, and sent it to the Senate of Canada. Marineland would be one of two facilities in Canada to be affected by the law after the bill is passed. No other captive orcas were held in Canada, but the Vancouver Aquarium had dolphins. In 2018, Progressive Conservatives in the Senate, led by Sen. Don Plett, were accused of using procedural obstruction to keep the bill from moving to a vote. In June 2018, such senators added amendments intended to exclude Marineland and the Vancouver Aquarium from being covered by the bill. After three years, the eventual outcome was not yet known in October 2018.\n\nMarineland is an animal exhibition park in Antibes, France, founded in 1970. It receives more than 1,200,000 visitors per year, and is the only French sea park featuring two cetacean species: killer whales and dolphins. The park is a subsidiary of Parques Reunidos, a Spanish group with properties in Europe, Argentina and the US. It currently holds Inouk (M), Wikie (F), Moana (M), and Keijo (M) and owns Shouka (F), who is at SeaWorld San Diego.\n\nLoro Parque (Spanish for \"parrot park\") is a zoo located on the outskirts of Puerto de la Cruz on Tenerife. The park has the world's largest indoor penguin exhibition, the longest shark tunnel in Europe, and is one of only two parks in Europe to house killer whales.\n\nIn February 2006, Loro Parque received four young killer whales; two males, Keto (born in 1995) and Tekoa (born in 2000), and two females, Kohana (2002) and Skyla (2004) on loan from SeaWorld. Sea World has sent its own professionals, including trainers, curators & veterinarians, to supplement the staff at Loro Parque. In 2004 and 2005, before the killer whales were brought to Loro Parque, eight animal trainers from the park were sent to Sea World parks in Texas and Florida for training. However, only half of these trainers are currently employed in Orca Ocean, Loro Parque's facility for the killer whales. None of the subsequent employees hired have been sent to Sea World parks for training. On December 24, 2009, orca trainer Alexis Martinez, age 29, was killed during a Christmas show rehearsal when he was attacked by one of the killer whales, presumably Keto, resulting in his drowning. He had worked at Loro Parque since 2004. From this date the trainers no longer enter the water with the orcas during live shows. In December of 2017, SeaWorld announced that the orcas they loaned to Loro Parque now belonged to the Spanish amusement park.\n\nMundo Marino, located south of Buenos Aires in the coastal town of San Clemente del Tuyú, Argentina, is the largest aquarium in South America. Mundo Marino is home to one male killer whale, Kshamenk, that was stranded, or force-stranded, in 1992. Kshamenk is estimated to have been around 4 1/2 years old when captured.\n\n\nLegal requirements for tank size vary greatly from country to country. In the US, the minimum enclosure size is set by the Code of Federal Regulations, , under the \"Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Marine Mammals\". In 9 CFR 3.104, Table III classifies killer whales as Group I cetaceans with an average length of . Based on length, Table I states up to two killer whales may be held in a pool with a minimum horizontal dimension (the diameter of a circular pool of water) of twice that length or and a minimum depth of , giving a minimum volume of for two killer whales. Each additional killer whale requires a pool with an additional of volume. 9 CFR 3.104 also requires a minimum of surface area per killer whale in Table IV (the example with a cylindrical tank in diameter for two whales provides of surface area per killer whale). Swiss regulations require a larger minimum volume: × deep for two killer whales, or . The Alliance of Marine Mammal Parks and Aquariums (AMMPA) goes further, and recommends for two killer whales. The US exhibitors of captive killer whales belong to the AMMPA, but exhibitors in other countries do not.\n\nThe tanks in most marine parks are considerably larger than the minimum sizes required by regulations. However, the Miami Seaquarium has been criticized for the small size of the tank holding their sole killer whale, Lolita, which is less than two of her body lengths wide at any point. Building a new tank would be costly and there is little prospect of replacing the aging Lolita.\n\nOn average, an adult killer whale in the wild may eat about three to four percent of their body weight daily, or as much as 227 kg (500 lb) of food for a six-ton male. Their diet in the wild depends on what is available, and may include fish, walruses, seals, sea lions, penguins, squid, sea turtles, sharks and whales. According to SeaWorld, each of their adult orcas receives 140 to 240 pounds of food per day, primarily herring, capelin, salmon and mackerel. To maintain their alertness, the killer whales are fed at sporadic intervals throughout the day (as would happen in the wild) and feeding is often combined with training and shows. Each batch of fish is carefully tested to determine its nutritive composition, and each killer whale's weight, activity and health is carefully monitored to determine any special dietary requirements.\n\nKiller whales have been the subject of extensive medical research since their first capture, and much is known about prevention and treatment of the common viral and bacterial infections, including vaccination and use of antibiotics and other medicines. Allometric principles and therapeutic drug monitoring are used to accurately determine the doses and avoid toxicity.\n\nWhales are trained using a system of reward (called \"positive reinforcement\" by trainers) by giving the killer whale food or other reinforcement when they are successful, and withholding it when they are not. Secondary reinforcement—things not essential to life, such as play time, tactile rewards and fun games—can also be used as rewards.\n\nThe practice of keeping killer whales in captivity is controversial, and organizations such as World Animal Protection and the Whale and Dolphin Conservation campaign against the captivity of killer whales. Orcas in captivity may develop physical pathologies, such as the dorsal fin collapse seen in 80–90% of captive males. \n\nThe captive environment bears little resemblance to their wild habitat, and the social groups that the killer whales are put into are foreign to those found in the wild. Critics claim that captive life is stressful due to small tanks, false social groupings and chemically altered water. Captive killer whales have been observed acting aggressively toward themselves, other killer whales, or humans, which critics say is a result of stress.\n\nThe lifespan of killer whales in captivity versus wild killer whales is disputed. Several studies published in scientific journals show that the average mortality rate for captive killer whales is approximately three times higher than in the wild. A 2015 study in the \"Journal of Mammalogy\", authored by SeaWorld's vice-president of theriogenology, Todd Robeck, concluded that the life expectancy for killer whales born at SeaWorld is the same as those in the wild. In the wild, female killer whales have a typical lifespan of 60–80 years, and a maximum recorded lifespan of 103 years. The average lifespan for males in the wild is 30 years, but some live up to 50–60 years. The 2015 study has been criticised by Trevor Willis, senior lecturer in marine biology at the University of Portsmouth, who stated that the study is misleading, \"clearly wrong\" and indicative of \"poor practice\". He stated that it is misleading in two ways: \"First, it compares two completely different circumstances: the controlled environment of a swimming pool, with highly trained vets on hand; and the wild ocean. \"There are no predators in a swimming pool. Second, and in the absence of any other information, it appears they’ve looked at the survival rate of calves in the first two years of life and extrapolated it out 50 years into the future.\" He also stated that no captive orca has lived for 55.8 years, the recorded average life expectancy of adult orcas at SeaWorld.\n\nSeaWorld San Antonio's 14-year-old Taku, born in captivity, died suddenly on October 17, 2007. Trainers were notified that Taku had been acting differently a week before his death. The necropsy determined that Taku had died from a sudden case of pneumonia, a common illness among captive orcas. It was also discovered that Taku was infected by the West nile virus, transmitted by mosquitos.\n\nThe shallowness of orca tanks forces orcas to spend a lot of time at the surface. So much time at the surface leads to prolonged exposure to ultraviolet (UV) rays. Prolonged exposure to the surface and UV rays is attributed to sunburns and the development of cataracts in orcas in captivity. Orcas in the wild would live at higher latitudes, meaning less intense sun, and spend more time in deeper, darker waters. While it is uncertain the effects of prolonged UV exposure to orcas' skin, since captive orca necropsies are extremely secretive, it seems logical that prolonged exposure to UV rays on unprotected skin would have the same negative effects such as melanoma (skin cancer) on orcas as it does on humans.\n\nThe original Namu developed a bacterial infection which damaged his nervous system, causing him to become nonresponsive to people. During his illness he charged full-speed into the wire mesh of his pen, thrashed violently for a few minutes and then died.\n\nMost captive male killer whales, and some females, have a dorsal fin that is partially or completely collapsed to one side. Several hypotheses exist as to why this happens. A dorsal fin is held erect by collagen, which normally hardens in late adolescence.\n\nScientists from the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) have reported that \"the collapsed dorsal fins commonly seen in captive killer whales do not result from a pathogenic condition, but are instead thought to most likely originate from an irreversible structural change in the fin's collagen over time. Possible explanations for this include: (1) alterations in water balance caused by the stresses of captivity dietary changes, (2) lowered blood pressure due to reduced activity patterns, or (3) overheating of the collagen brought on by greater exposure of the fin to the ambient air.\" According to SeaWorld's website, another reason for the fin to bend may be the greater amount of time that captive whales spend at the surface, where the fin is not supported by water pressure. The Whale and Dolphin Conservation says that dorsal fin collapse is largely explained by captive killer whales swimming in small circles due to the inadequate space in which they have to swim. SeaWorld, however, claims that \"Neither the shape nor the droop of a whale's dorsal fin are indicators of a killer whale's health or well-being.\"\n\nCollapsed or collapsing dorsal fins are rare in most wild populations and usually result from a serious injury to the fin, such as from being shot or colliding with a vessel. After the 1989 \"Exxon Valdez\" oil spill, the dorsal fins of two male resident killer whales who had been exposed to the oil collapsed, and the animals subsequently died. In 2002, the dorsal fin of a stranded killer whale showed signs of collapse after three days but regained its natural upright appearance as soon as the orca resumed strong normal swimming upon release.\n\nIt has been reported that seven out of the 30 (23%) wild adult male killer whales from New Zealand waters have bent dorsal fins, though this figure includes a variety of dorsal fin abnormalities, including rippled or twisted fins, in addition to simple one-sided collapse. The New Zealand study noted that, in addition to the high prevalence of dorsal fin deformities, two of the 30 adult males in this population also had prolific body scarring that was consistent with bite marks from other killer whales. The prevalence of dorsal fin deformities is 4.7% among adult male orcas in British Columbia and 0.57% in Norway. Amongst the well-studied wild killer whales off the coast of British Columbia, the total rate of dorsal fin collapse is around 1%.\n\nABC News reported that captive killer whales have attacked nearly two dozen people since the 1970s. Studies of killer whales in the wild have identified at least two categories, based on their territorial range. Those living in a limited area, such as Puget Sound or the Strait of Juan de Fuca, are termed \"resident\" whales, while \"transient\" whales roam the oceans at will. These \"transient\" types have to be more aggressive, in order to assert themselves in a wide range of territories and to prey on a variety of different species. This increased aggressiveness does not disappear in captivity. Furthermore, captivity itself has been asserted to aggravate aggressive behavior, resulting in a \"cetacean equivalent of anxiety disorder.\"\n\nCaptive killer whale attacks on humans seem to fall mostly into the categories of: biting during feeding, ramming in the water, and holding under water. Killer whales biting trainers during feeding or shows is generally the mildest form of attack seen, but can escalate to an animal dragging the trainer underwater and holding them there until they lose consciousness or drown. Trainers who have had killer whales ram into them in the water tend to suffer from a range of injuries including internal bleeding, broken bones, ruptured organs, and heart attack.\n\nTilikum, a male killer whale, has been involved in the death of three individuals since his capture near Iceland in November 1983. In 1991, Tilikum and two other killer whales grabbed 20-year-old trainer Keltie Byrne in their mouths and tossed her to each other, drowning Byrne. On July 5, 1999, Daniel P. Dukes visited SeaWorld and stayed after the park closed, evading security so as to enter a killer whale tank. He was found dead the next day, floating in Tilikum's pool. He died due to a combination of hypothermia, trauma, and drowning but Dukes was covered in bruises, abrasions and bite marks, and his scrotum had been ripped open, indicating that Tilikum had toyed with the victim. It is unclear whether Tilikum actually caused the man's death. On February 24, 2010, after a noontime performance at Sea World, Orlando, Florida, Tilikum killed trainer Dawn Brancheau during a training session with the whale. This latest incident with Tilikum reawakened a heated discussion about the effect of captivity on the killer whale's behavior. In May 2012, Occupational Safety and Health Administration administrative law judge Ken Welsch faulted SeaWorld for the death of Dawn Brancheau and introduced regulations requiring a physical barrier between trainers and killer whales.\n\nKasatka, a female killer whale who was captured off the coast of Iceland in October 1978 at the age of one year, has shown aggression toward humans. Kasatka tried to bite a trainer during a show in 1993, and again in 1999. On November 30, 2006, Kasatka grabbed a trainer and dragged him underwater during their show. The trainer suffered puncture wounds to both feet and a torn metatarsal ligament in his left foot.\n\nOn Christmas Eve of 2009, 29-year-old Alexis Martínez of Loro Parque, Tenerife, Spain was killed by a whale named Keto. After spending two and a half minutes at the bottom of the 12-meter-deep main pool, his body was retrieved but he could not be revived. The park initially characterized the death as an \"accident\" and claimed that the body showed no signs of violence, but the subsequent autopsy report stated that Martinez died due to grave injuries sustained by an orca attack, including multiple compression fractures, tears to vital organs, and the bite marks of the animal on his body. During the investigation into the death of Alexis Martinez, it came to light that the park had also mischaracterized to the public a 2007 incident with Tekoa, the other male, and claimed it was also an accident rather than an attack.\n\nThe only recorded injury of a human by an orca in the wild happened in 1972 at Point Sur, California. \n\nOne infamous incident of killer whale aggression took place in August 1989, when the dominant female Icelandic killer whale at SeaWorld San Diego, Kandu V, attempted to \"rake\" a female newcomer named Corky. Raking is a way orcas show dominance by forcefully scratching at another with their teeth. Kandu charged at Corky, attempting to rake her, missed and continued swimming into the back pool, where she ended up ramming the wall, rupturing an artery in her jaw. The crowd was quickly ushered out of the stadium. Forty-five minutes later Kandu V sank to the bottom of the pool and died.\n\nKanduke, a male captured from T pod in British Columbia, Canada in August 1975, often fought with a younger Icelandic male named Kotar. The aggression became increasingly serious, leading to an incident in which Kotar bit a part of Kanduke's genitals and caused an infection. It is not known if such serious aggression and injury would occur in the open seas.\n\nCaptive killer whales often give birth at a much younger age than in the wild, sometimes as young as age seven. The young mothers may have difficulty raising their offspring. The calves have a relatively low survival rate, though some have lived into adulthood.\n\nCorky (II), a female from the A5 Pod in British Columbia, Canada became the first killer whale to become pregnant in captivity, giving birth on February 28, 1977. The calf died after 18 days. Corky went on to give birth six more times, but the longest surviving calf, Kiva, lived only 47 days. SeaWorld has attracted criticism over its continued captivity of Corky II from the Born Free Foundation, which wants her returned to the wild.\n\nA killer whale named Katina, captured near Iceland at about three years of age in October 1978, became pregnant in early spring of 1984 at SeaWorld San Diego and gave birth in September 1985 to a female named Kalina. Although ten years was an extremely young age for a killer whale to become a mother, Kalina was the first killer whale calf to be successfully born and raised in captivity. In turn, Kalina gave birth at only seven and a half years of age to her first calf, a male named Keet.\n\nGudrun was an Icelandic female caught in the 1970s. In 1993, she gave birth to Nyar, a female who was both mentally and physically ill, and who Gudrun tried to drown during several shows. Nyar died from an illness a few months later. Gudrun died in 1996 from stillbirth complications.\n\nTaima is a transient/Icelandic hybrid female killer whale born in captivity to Gudrun in 1989. Trainers believe that Gudrun's behavior towards Nyar may have confused Taima, as she may have learned by example that this was how to raise a calf. In May 1998, Taima gave birth to a male calf named Sumar. They were separated when he was about eight months old because of the aggression between them. On one occasion while performing, Taima started biting Sumar and throwing him out of the pool onto the trainer's platform. She then slid out herself, and continued to bite him. In November 2000, Taima gave birth to a male named Tekoa. The two were separated after only nine months due to aggression between them. On March 12, 2007, Taima gave birth to her third calf, Malia. Taima seemed to be a better mother this time, and no notable occurrences of aggression were reported; this may be in part due to the fact that Kalina acted as \"aunt\" to Malia and helped Taima to look after her. Kalina was a very experienced mother and would often be kept with Malia, while Taima was given time with her mate, Tilikum.\nTaima died in 2010 during the birthing process of her fourth calf. The calf, fathered by Tilikum, was stillborn.\n\nKayla, a killer whale born in captivity, gave birth to her first calf on October 9, 2005, a female named Halyn. Kayla rejected her calf, perhaps because she had never been exposed to a young calf before and did not know how to deal with it. Halyn was moved to a special animal care facility to be hand raised. Halyn died unexpectedly on June 15, 2008.\n\nOn October 13, 2010, Kohana, an eight-year-old female killer whale, gave birth to a male calf at Loro Parque's \"Orca Ocean\" exhibit after a four-hour labor. The calf weighed about 150 kilograms (330 lb), and was two meters (6 ft 7 in) long. Kohana has yet to establish a \"maternal bond\" with her calf, forcing trainers to take the first steps in hand rearing him. The outcome of this pregnancy was not considered surprising, since Kohana was separated from her own mother, Takara, at three years of age, and was never able to learn about maternal care, compounded by the fact that she spent the formative years of her life surrounded by the three other juvenile killer whales at Loro Parque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20194618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20194618", "title": "Commonwealth Oil Refineries", "text": "Commonwealth Oil Refineries\n\nCommonwealth Oil Refineries (COR) was an Australian oil company that operated between 1920 and 1952 as a joint venture of the Australian government and the Anglo-Persian Oil Company.\n\nThe partnership was established in 1920 on the initiative of prime minister Billy Hughes.\n\nIn 1924 it opened Australia's first oil refinery near Laverton, Victoria, north of the Melbourne - Geelong railway, adjacent to Kororoit Creek Road. The refinery received its first shipment of crude oil on 12 March 1924, with product coming \"on-stream\" on 17 May 1924. The refinery had an annual processing capacity of 100,000 tons of crude oil. The refinery was shut down on 6 August 1955, eclipsed by much larger refineries being built around the country.\n\nIn the 1930s the company was involved in oil search ventures.\n\nIn 1952, the Menzies Coalition government sold the Australian government's interest in COR to the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, which became the British Petroleum Company (BP) in 1954.\n\nIn 1955 it developed a refinery at Kwinana, Western Australia\n\nBetween 1952 and 1959, BP Australia branded its standard-grade petrol as COR, but then dropped the name.\n\n"}
{"id": "2912632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2912632", "title": "Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970", "text": "Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970\n\nThe Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, , is a United States federal law that, with subsequent modifications, requires the pharmaceutical industry to maintain physical security and strict record keeping for certain types of drugs. Controlled substances are divided into five schedules (or classes) on the basis of their potential for abuse, accepted medical use, and accepted safety under medical supervision. Substances in Schedule I have a high potential for abuse, no accredited medical use, and a lack of accepted safety. From Schedules II to V, substances decrease in potential for abuse. The schedule a substance is placed in determines how it must be controlled. Prescriptions for drugs in all schedules must bear the physician's federal Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) license number, but some drugs in Schedule V do not require a prescription. State schedules may vary from federal schedules.\n\nThe Controlled Substances Act (CSA), Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, is the legal foundation of the government's fight against the abuse of drugs and other substances. This law is a consolidation of numerous laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of narcotics, stimulants, depressants, hallucinogens, anabolic steroids, and chemicals used in the illicit production of controlled substances. The act also provides a mechanism for substances to be controlled, added to a schedule, decontrolled, removed from control, rescheduled, or transferred from one schedule to another.\n\nProceedings to add, delete, or change the schedule of a drug or other substance may be initiated by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), or by petition from any interested party, including the manufacturer of a drug, a medical society or association, a pharmacy association, a public interest group concerned with drug abuse, a state or local government agency, or an individual citizen. When a petition is received by the DEA, the agency begins its own investigation of the drug.\n\nThe DEA also may begin an investigation of a drug at any time based upon information received from law enforcement laboratories, state and local law enforcement and regulatory agencies, or other sources of information.\n\nOnce the DEA has collected the necessary data, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Association, by authority of the Attorney General, requests from the HHS a scientific and medical evaluation and recommendation as to whether the drug or other substance should be controlled or removed from control. This request is sent to the Assistant Secretary of Health of the HHS. Then, the HHS solicits information from the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration and evaluations and recommendations from the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and on occasion, from the scientific and medical community. The Assistant Secretary, by authority of the Secretary, compiles the information and transmits back to the DEA a medical and scientific evaluation regarding the drug or other substance, a recommendation as to whether the drug should be controlled, and in what schedule it should be placed.\n\nThe medical and scientific evaluations are binding to the DEA with respect to scientific and medical matters. The recommendation on scheduling is binding only to the extent that if HHS recommends that the substance not be controlled, the DEA may not control the substance.\n\nOnce the DEA has received the scientific and medical evaluation from HHS, the Administrator will evaluate all available data and make a final decision whether to propose that a drug or other substance be controlled and into which schedule it should be placed.\n\nThe CSA also creates a closed system of distribution for those authorized to handle controlled substances. The cornerstone of this system is the registration of all those authorized by the DEA to handle controlled substances. All individuals and firms that are registered are required to maintain complete and accurate inventories and records of all transactions involving controlled substances, as well as security for the storage of controlled substances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4355340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4355340", "title": "Convention on the Regulation of Antarctic Mineral Resource Activities", "text": "Convention on the Regulation of Antarctic Mineral Resource Activities\n\nThe Convention on the Regulation of Antarctic Mineral Resource Activities is a treaty that is part of the Antarctic Treaty System. The convention was concluded at Wellington on 2 June 1988. The government of New Zealand is the depository of the treaty.\n\nThe convention was signed by 19 states, but no states have ratified it. Therefore, the convention has not entered into force and has been replaced by the 1998 Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty (Madrid Protocol).\n\n"}
{"id": "25283612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25283612", "title": "Cordillera of the Andes Boundary Case 1902 (Argentina, Chile)", "text": "Cordillera of the Andes Boundary Case 1902 (Argentina, Chile)\n\nThe Cordillera of the Andes Boundary Case () was a British arbitration in 1902 that established the present day boundaries between Argentina and Chile. In northern and central Patagonia, the borders were established between the latitudes of 40° and 52° S as an interpretation of the Boundary treaty of 1881 between Chile and Argentina. \n\nAs result of the arbitration, some Patagonian lakes, such as O'Higgins/San Martín Lake, became divided by a national boundary. Additionally the preferences of settled colonists in a cultivated part of the area in dispute had been canvassed. The boundary proposed in the arbitration was a compromise between the boundary preferences of the two disputing governments, which neither strictly followed the alignment of highest peaks nor the fluvial watershed, and was published in the name of King Edward VII.\n\n\n\nThe escalation in tension between Chile and Argentina suggested armed conflict had become a distinct probability towards the end of the 19th Century as both had claims on Patagonia. The Argentinian Riccheri Law continued to provide for selective national service; the expansion of the Argentine armed forces after the campaigns and subjugation of the Pampas and expanded southwards and westwards into Patagonia in the \"Conquest of the Desert\". Argentina and Chile had successfully reached a measure of mutual agreement in the Boundary Treaty of 1881 and subsequently identified other boundary alignment issues to be resolved by binding arbitration under the 1902 \"May Pact\" and sought the involvement of the UK as mediator.\n\nCommissioners Francisco Moreno (Argentina), Diego Barros Arana (Chile) and Sir Thomas Holdich (UK) visited the Andean Patagonian valleys to make site-based observations following the written submissions presented previously by the two parties to the Arbitration Panel.\n\nSince 1885, this valley had been settled by many Welsh emigrants. This fertile east-west aligned valley was initially awarded to Chile. Subsequently the commissioners visited Trevelin and received the views of the inhabitants of the \"Colonia del Valle 16 de Octubre\" on 30 April 1902, for three days, in School Number 18, which had been founded in 1895 next to the river Corintios by the Argentine National Government. The arbitration award finally adjudicated in favour of the Republic of Argentina, and Trevelin, Esquel and other adjacent settlements were subsequently incorporated into Chubut province.\n\nResearch by Gustavo De Vera and Jorge Fiori starting in 1998 was published as the \"Winds of War\" in 2002 to coincide with the centenary, for the Directorate of Culture, Trevelin, has investigated the background and events around the \"1902 Referendum\". They have concluded that the views of the inhabitants, whilst not the sole determinate, were certainly influential in founding an acceptable alignment for the national boundary in this part of Patagonia.\n\nIn some areas such as Aysén Region, the Chilean claims were partly agreed, giving Chile foothold on the lakes and plains east of the Andes, while in some other areas the Argentine thesis of the \"Snowy Cordillera\" prevailed as the boundary.\n\nIn the area of the \"Campo de Hielo Sur\", the large, ice-covered area in the Patagonian Andes, the border discussions have continued after 1902. (See .)\n\n"}
{"id": "32519311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32519311", "title": "Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 282/2011", "text": "Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 282/2011\n\nCouncil Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 282/2011 was adopted by the Council of the European Union on 15 March 2011. This was mainly because the terms and wording of Directive 2006/112/EC (hereinafter \"VAT Directive\") have been inconclusive in some cases. The Regulation provided new implementing measures for the VAT Directive. Especially due to the amendment of the VAT Directive itself and the consistent case-law of the European Court of Justice, the former Implementing Regulation (EC) No. 1777/2005 had to be recast and clarified in certain aspects. This Implementing Regulation became effective on 1 July 2011 and does not have to be transported into national legislation of the individual member states of the European Union (unlike a directive) and thus is directly applicable.\n\nA directive is a binding act of general application as a legal instrument of the European institutions addressed to the Member States to implement their policies, cf. Article 288 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). To apply direct effect in national law the directive has to be transposed by the Member States.\n\nRegulations are normative acts defined by Article 288 TFEU. They have general application and are directly applicable in all Member States.\n\nThe statutory basis of Implementing Regulations is set out in Articles 164 and 178 of the TFEU, regarding the Implementing Regulations of the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Funds.\nThe validity of Implementing Regulations as legal acts depends on the \"basic Regulations\". The latter lay down the fundamental rules, while the implementing regulations set out the technical provisions.\n\nThe structure of Regulation (EU) No. 282/2011 follows the structure of the VAT Directive and affects almost all areas:\n\nAs mentioned in recital No. 1 of the Regulation a number of substantial changes are to be made to Council Regulation (EC) No. 1777/2005 of 17 October 2005 laying down implementing measures for Directive 77/388/EEC on the common system of value added tax. It is desirable, for reasons of clarity and rationalization, that the provisions in question should be recast.\nOne of the main reasons for the need of amendment, referring to recital No. 3 of the Regulation, is the transpose of changes resulting from the adoption of Council Directive 2008/8/EC of 12 February 2008 amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the place of supply of services. Additionally the adoption of the Commission Regulation (EC) No. 520/2009 – covering changes to the place of supply and service – requires the mentioned modification.\nThe objective is to ensure uniform application of the current VAT system by laying down rules implementing Directive 2006/112/EC, in particular in respect of taxable persons, the supply of goods and services, and the place of taxable transactions (cf. recital No. 4 Reg.).\n\nIn accordance with Article 5 subparagraph 4 of the Treaty of European Union (TEU) this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the abovementioned objective (principle of proportionality; cf. recital No. 4 Reg.). \nReferring to recital No. 5 of the Regulation these implementing provisions contain specific rules in response to selective questions of application and are designed to bring uniform treatment throughout the Union to those specific circumstances only. They are therefore not conclusive for other cases and, in view of their formulation, are to be applied restrictively.\n\nArt. 6 of the Regulation contains that restaurant and catering services are deemed to be services consisting of the supply of prepared or unprepared food or beverages, for human consumption, accompanied by sufficient support services allowing for the immediate consumption thereof. If no such accompanying support services are provided, the supply shall not be considered a supply of services in the form of restaurant and catering services (cf. European Court of Justice C-497/09 \"C-Bog\", C-499/09 \"CinemaxX\", C-501/09 \"Lohmeyer\", C 502/09 \"Fleischerei Nier\"). Using an example that means the supply of a soda can through a drinks dispenser is not a restaurant and catering service within the meaning of Art. 6 of the Regulation.\n\nThe definition of the \"place where the business of a taxable person is established\" deserves special attention, which is stated as the \"place where the functions of the business's central administration are carried out\" (cf. Art. 10 Reg.).\nThis clarifies that the focus should not be on the day-to-day operations. To specify the place of business, account must be taken of the place where:\nWhere these criteria do not allow the place of establishment of a business to be determined with certainty, the place where essential decisions concerning the general management of the business are taken shall take precedence (cf. Art 10 Nr. 2 Reg.).\nMere presence of a postal address may not be taken to be the place of establishment of a business of a taxable person (cf. Art. 10 No. 3 Reg.).\n\nThe term \"fixed establishment\" is characterized in Art. 11 of the Regulation by a \"sufficient degree of permanence and a suitable structure\" relating to \"human and technical resources to enable it to provide the service which it supplies\". Thus it is not required that the branch provides services by itself. Merely it needs to have the ability to receive and use such. Even if the services are only provided for the head office the conditions are met. Nevertheless, where the resources of the fixed establishment are only used for administrative support they will not be regarded as being used for the supply of goods or services. Having a VAT number does not equal having a fixed establishment (cf. Art. 11 No. 3 Reg.).\n\nThese provisions are important for purposes of determining the place of supply of a Business-to-Business transaction pursuant to Art. 44 of the VAT Directive.\n\nThe correct application of the rules based on the place of supply of services relies mainly on the status of the customer as a taxable person or non-taxable person, and on the capacity in which he is acting.\n\nAs mentioned in Art. 18 No. 1a of the Regulation a customer can be assumed as being a taxable person if the customer has communicated his VAT number and the supplier obtains confirmation of the validity of that identification number. The validity can be checked at the web site of the European Commission.\nWhere the customer has not received a VAT number yet (Art. 18 No. 1b Reg.) the supplier shall obtain any other proof which demonstrates that the customer is a taxable person; and the supplier carries out a reasonable level of verification of the accuracy of the information.\nIn accordance with Art. 18 No. 2 of the Regulation the customer is a non-taxable person if no identification number is provided.\n\nAccording to Art. 18 Nr. 3a of the Regulation the customer can be regarded as a taxable person if he provides to the supplier a certificate issued by the competent tax authorities that the customer is engaged in economic activities in order to enable him to obtain a refund of VAT. If no such document is available the customer should provide to the supplier:\nThe improvement of those provisions for the suppliers is to reduce the VAT risk and strengthen the cases where the supplier acts in good faith.\n\nFor the purpose of determining the place of supply in accordance with Art. 44 (Business-to-Business transactions) and Art. 45 (Business-to-Consumer transactions) of the VAT Directive, Art 19 of the Regulation clarifies that taxable persons or legal persons deemed to be taxable persons who receive services exclusively for private use, including by their staff, shall be regarded as non taxable persons.\n\nArt. 32 and Art. 33 of the Regulation define the right of admission within the meaning of Art. 53 of the VAT Directive to cultural and similar events and services. The Regulation distinguishes between services in respect of admission to events (cf. Art. 32 Reg.) and the ancillary services (cf. Art. 33 Reg.). \nArt. 32 of the Regulation shall be applicable for the therein specified services except the use of facilities such as gymnastics halls and suchlike, in exchange for the payment of a fee (cf. Art. 32 No. 3 Reg.).\nArt. 33 of the Regulation includes services which are directly related to admission to events and includes in particular the use of sanitary facilities but shall not include mere intermediary services relating to the sale of tickets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11139990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11139990", "title": "Criticism of the Food and Drug Administration", "text": "Criticism of the Food and Drug Administration\n\nNumerous governmental and non-governmental organizations have criticized the U. S. Food and Drug Administration for alleged excessive and/or insufficient regulation. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services and is responsible for the safety regulation of most types of foods, dietary supplements, drugs, vaccines, biological medical products, blood products, medical devices, radiation-emitting devices, veterinary products, and cosmetics. The FDA also enforces section 361 of the Public Health Service Act and the associated regulations, including sanitation requirements on interstate travel as well as specific rules for control of disease on products ranging from animals sold as pets to donations of human blood and tissue.\n\nA $1.8 million 2006 Institute of Medicine report on pharmaceutical regulation in the U.S. found major deficiencies in the FDA system for ensuring the safety of drugs on the American market. Overall, the authors called for an increase in the regulatory powers, funding, and independence of the FDA.\n\nA group of critics claim that the FDA possesses excessive regulatory authority.\n\nThe economist Milton Friedman has claimed that the regulatory process is inherently biased against approval of some worthy drugs, because the adverse effects of wrongfully banning a useful drug are undetectable, while the consequences of mistakenly approving a harmful drug are highly publicised and that therefore the FDA will take the action that will result in the least public condemnation of the FDA regardless of the health consequences.\n\nFriedman and others have argued that delays in the approval process have cost lives. The thalidomide birth defects crisis led to passage of the 1962 Kefauver Harris Amendment, which required proof of efficacy in addition to safety for approval of new drugs — despite the fact that the thalidomide crisis was entirely a safety issue. Proving efficacy is much more expensive and time-consuming than proving safety. By requiring proof of efficacy in addition to safety, the Kefauver Harris Amendment added considerable cost and delay to the drug approval process — which critics say may well have cost many more lives than it was said to save. Prior to passage of the Kefauver Harris Amendment, the average time from the filing of an investigational new drug application (IND) to approval was 7 months. By 1998, it took an average of 7.3 years from the date of filing to approval. Prior to the 1990s, the mean time for new drug approvals was shorter in Europe than in the United States, although that difference has since disappeared.\n\nConcerns about the length of the drug approval process were brought to the fore early in the AIDS epidemic. In the late 1980s, ACT-UP and other HIV activist organizations accused the FDA of unnecessarily delaying the approval of medications to fight HIV and opportunistic infections, and staged large protests, such as a confrontational October 11, 1988 action at the FDA campus which resulted in nearly 180 arrests. In August 1990, Louis Lasagna, then chairman of a presidential advisory panel on drug approval, estimated that thousands of lives were lost each year due to delays in approval and marketing of drugs for cancer and AIDS. Partly in response to these criticisms, the FDA introduced expedited approval of drugs for life-threatening diseases and expanded pre-approval access to drugs for patients with limited treatment options. All of the initial drugs approved for the treatment of HIV/AIDS were approved through accelerated approval mechanisms. For example, a \"treatment IND\" was issued for the first HIV drug, AZT, in 1985, and approval was granted 2 years later, in 1987. Three of the first 5 HIV medications were approved in the United States before they were approved in any other country.\n\nStudies published in 2003 by Joseph DiMasi and colleagues estimated an average cost of approximately $800 million to bring a new drug to market, while a 2006 study estimated the cost to be anywhere from $500 million to $2 billion. The consumer advocacy group Public Citizen, using a different methodology, estimated the average cost for development to be under $200 million, about 29% of which is spent on FDA-required clinical trials. DiMasi rejects the claim that high R&D costs alone are responsible for high drug prices. Instead, in a published letter, DiMasi writes, \"...longer development times increase R&D costs and shorten the period during which drug companies can earn the returns they need to make investment financially viable. Other things being equal, longer development times reduce innovation incentives. As a consequence, fewer new therapies might be developed.\"\n\nNobel prize-winning economist Gary S. Becker has argued that FDA-required clinical trials for new drugs do contribute to high drug prices for consumers, mainly because of patent protection that provides a temporary monopoly which disallows cheaper alternatives from entering the market. He advocates dropping many FDA requirements, many of which provide no additional safety or valuable information, as this would hasten the development of new drugs, because they would be faster to bring to market, thereby increasing supply, and as a consequence would lead to lower prices. In 2011, the experience with Makena showed that a previously inexpensive drug could increase in price dramatically, from about $10 to $1,500 after the FDA regulated its marketing, approved it as orphan drug, and granted it a temporary monopoly status, although it had been on the market for five decades. After criticism, the FDA indicated that previous providers could continue to provide the medication, and Makena's price was reduced.\n\nThe FDA has been criticized by advocates for the supplement industry for prohibiting dietary supplement manufacturers from making research supported claims of effectiveness on the labels of their products. Manufacturers of supplements, which are considered foods for regulatory purposes, are allowed to make only limited \"structure/function claims\" and are prohibited from claiming that the supplement can prevent, cure, or mitigate a disease or condition regardless of whether or not the supplement undergoes actual testing of its safety and efficacy. Ron Paul (R-TX) opined: \"But the FDA and the drug companies are in bed together and they squeeze out competitions and build up their monopolies and they love government medicine because they make more money.\" Ron Paul also introduced a bill on November 10, 2005 titled the \"Health Freedom Protection Act\" (H.R. 4282), which proposed to stop \"the FDA from censoring truthful claims about the curative, mitigative, or preventative effects of dietary supplements, and adopts the federal court’s suggested use of disclaimers as an alternative to censorship.\"\n\nIn addition to those who see the FDA as a source of excessive regulation, other critics believe that the FDA does not regulate some products strictly enough. According to this view, the FDA allows unsafe drugs on the market because of pressure from pharmaceutical companies, fails to ensure safety in drug storage and labelling, and allows the use of dangerous agricultural chemicals, food additives, and food processing techniques.\n\nA $1.8 million 2006 Institute of Medicine report on pharmaceutical regulation in the U.S. found major deficiencies in the current FDA system for ensuring the safety of drugs on the American market. Overall, the authors called for an increase in the regulatory powers, funding, and independence of the FDA.\n\nIn the 1980s, Cutter Laboratories introduced a heat-treated version of Factor VIII concentrate in the US, designed to eliminate the risk of HIV transmission. However, Cutter continued to market the untreated product overseas, potentially spreading HIV while the safer product was marketed in the US.\n\nCutter initially had a voluntary agreement with the FDA to stop marketing the untreated product. However, when it became clear that Cutter was not complying with the agreement, the FDA ordered the company to cease marketing untreated blood products, stating: \"It was unacceptable for them to ship that material overseas.\" At the same time, the FDA, according to Cutter's internal documents, asked that the issue be \"quietly solved without alerting the Congress, the medical community and the public\", leading to charges that the FDA was complicit in covering up Cutter's actions.\n\nSome critics believe that the FDA has been too to overlook safety concerns in approving new drugs, and is slow to withdraw approved drugs once evidence shows them to be unsafe. Rezulin (troglitazone) and Vioxx (rofecoxib) are high-profile examples of drugs approved by the FDA which were later withdrawn from the market for posing unacceptable risks to patients.\n\nTroglitazone is a diabetes drug that was also available abroad at the time the FDA approved it. Post-marketing safety data indicated that the drug had dangerous side-effects (in this case liver failure). The drug was pulled off that market in the UK in 1997, but was not withdrawn by the FDA until 2000, before which time it is claimed that thousands of Americans were injured or killed by the drug.\n\nIn the case of Vioxx, a pre-approval study indicated that a group taking the drug had four times the risk of heart attacks when compared to another group of patients taking another anti-inflammatory, naproxen. The FDA approval board accepted the manufacturer's argument that this was due to a previously unknown cardioprotective effect of naproxen, rather than a risk of Vioxx, and the drug was approved. In 2005, the results of a randomized, placebo-controlled study showed that Vioxx users suffered a higher rate of heart attacks and other cardiovascular disorders than patients taking no medication at all. The manufacturer, Merck, withdrew the drug after disclosures that it had withheld information about its risks from doctors and patients for over five years, resulting in between 88,000 and 140,000 cases of serious heart disease of which roughly half died. David Graham, a scientist in the Office of Drug Safety within the CDER, testified to Congress that he was pressured by his supervisors not to warn the public about dangers of drugs like Vioxx. He argued that an inherent conflict of interest exists when the office responsible for post-approval monitoring of drug safety is controlled by the same organization which initially approved those same drugs as safe and effective. He said that after testifying against Vioxx, he was \"marginalized by FDA management and not asked to participate in the evaluation of any new drug safety issues. It's a type of ostracism.\" In a 2006 survey sponsored by the Union of Concerned Scientists, almost one-fifth of FDA scientists said they \"have been asked, for non-scientific reasons, to inappropriately exclude or alter technical information or their conclusions in a FDA scientific document.\"\n\nFood safety advocates have criticized the FDA for allowing meat manufacturers to use carbon monoxide gas mixtures during the packaging process to prevent discoloration of meat, a process that may hide signs of spoilage from the consumer.\n\nThe FDA has been criticised for allowing the use of recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH) in dairy cows. rBGH-treated cows secrete higher levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) in their milk than do untreated cows. IGF-1 signalling is thought to play a role in sustaining the growth of some tumors, although there is little or no evidence that exogenously absorbed IGF could promote tumor growth. The FDA approved rBGH for use in dairy cows in 1993, after concluding that humans drinking such milk were unlikely to absorb biologically significant quantities of bovine IGF-1. A 1999 report of the European Commission Scientific Committee on Veterinary Measures relating to Public Health noted that scientific questions persist regarding the theoretical health risks of milk from rBGH-treated cows, particularly for feeding to infants. Since 1993, all EU countries have maintained a ban on rBGH use in dairy cattle.\n\nThe FDA has also been criticised for permitting the routine use of antibiotics in healthy domestic animals to promote their growth, a practice which allegedly contributes to the evolution of antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria. \nThe FDA has taken recent steps to limit the use of antibiotics in farm animals. In September 2005, the FDA withdrew approval for the use of the fluoroquinolone antibiotic enrofloxacin (trade name Baytril) in poultry, out of concern that this practice could promote bacterial resistance to important human antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin.\n\nThe FDA has received criticism for its approval of certain coal tar derived food dyes such as FDC yellow 5 and 6, which are banned in most European countries. On September 6, 2007, the British Food Standards Agency revised advice on certain artificial food additives, including tartrazine.\n\nProfessor Jim Stevenson from Southampton University, and author of the report, said: \"This has been a major study investigating an important area of research. The results suggest that consumption of certain mixtures of artificial food colours and sodium benzoate preservative are associated with increases in hyperactive behaviour in children.\n\nThe following additives were tested in the research:\n\nOn April 10, 2008, the Food Standards Agency called for a voluntary removal of the colors (but not sodium benzoate) by 2009. In addition, it recommended that there should be action to phase them out in food and drink in the European Union (EU) over a specified period.\n\nUK ministers have agreed that the six colorings will be phased out by 2009. A Japanese group found in 1987 that tartrazine was not carcinogenic after being fed to mice for two years.\nA German group found in 1989 that Sunset Yellow did not induce mutations that could lead to cancer in laboratory animals.\n\nThe FDA has also been criticized for giving permission for cloned animals to be sold as food without any special labelling, although \"cloned products may not reach the U.S. market for years.\" and \"Authorities lack the authority to require labeling of products from cloned animals.\"\n\nIn August 2013, a study released by The Pew Charitable Trusts found that of the 8105 additives that the FDA allows in food only 19% (1367) have toxicology information.\n\nAfter his resignation, from his post as Commissioner of the Food and Drugs Administration in December 1969, Dr. Herbert L. Ley, Jr. In an interview to \"The New York Times\", warned the public about the FDA’s inability to safeguard consumers. People were being misled, he believed “The thing that bugs me is that the people think the FDA is protecting them - it isn’t. What the FDA is doing and what the public thinks it’s doing are as different as night and day,” he said. The agency, in his opinion, did not have the motivation to protect consumers, faced budget shortfalls, and lacked support from the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. Dr. Ley was critical of Congress, the Administration and the drug industry, stating that he had \"constant, tremendous, sometimes unmerciful pressure\" from the drug industry, and that the drug company lobbyists, combined with the politicians who worked on behalf of their patrons, could bring “tremendous pressure” to bear on him and his staff, to try preventing FDA restrictions on their drugs. Ley stated that the entire issue was about money, “pure and simple”. On December 15, 1999, interviewed for the oral history program of the FDA History Office, Dr. Ley shared that from the first controversy in his tenure as FDA Commissioner he had a \"gut feeling\" that his life expectancy at the FDA was probably limited. He said he had done everything by the book, both in the FDA and the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and he thinks that what the Administration was really wishing, was that he would stonewall the whole Academy report, because it was goring too many pharmaceutical companies.\n\nIn a 2005 interview, Dr. David J. Graham, associate director of the FDA's Office of Drug Safety, stated that \"FDA is inherently biased in favor of the pharmaceutical industry. It views industry as its client, whose interests it must represent and advance. It views its primary mission as approving as many drugs it can, regardless of whether the drugs are safe or needed\"\n\nThe Prescription Drug User Fee Act allows the FDA to augment its budget by charging fees to pharmaceutical firms. Over $800 million was collected from 1993 to 2001 and rising each year. It also has been shown that oftentimes, the FDA expert advisory panels had direct financial interests in the drugs or products being evaluated. Former Editor of \"The New England Journal of Medicine\", Marcia Angell, has stated that \"It's time to take the Food and Drug Administration back from the drug companies... In effect, the user fee act put the FDA on the payroll of the industry it regulates. Last year, the fees came to about $300 million, which the companies recoup many times over by getting their drugs to market faster.\" Critics have disputed the claim that the Prescription Drug User Fee Amendment has improved the speed of drug approvals.\n\nOn April 14, 2017, House and Senate leaders announced a bipartisan agreement to extend the FDA’s ability to collect high user fees from drug companies and medical device manufacturers. This allows the FDA to charge huge licensing fees to drug manufacturers, which has led to enormous increases in generic drug pricing. In 2013 and 2014, generic drug pricing for over 200 drugs increased over 100%. Many of those drugs had price hikes over 1000%. It has been reported that 75% of the FDA generic drug oversight budget comes directly from private drug companies.\n\nA historical example of how the FDA seemingly favors the pharmaceutical industry either from clandestine direct money payments to FDA directors and scientific advisers or other undisclosed or unknown means was seen with the generic drug droperidol. Droperidol was a widely used antiemetic used perioperatively safely for over 30 years. During that time there had never been a case reported in peer-reviewed medical literature of cardiac arrhythmias or cardiac issues when given at doses typically used for post-operative nausea and vomiting. Nonetheless, and without warning, in 2001 the FDA issued a black box warning regarding QTc prolongation (a dangerous finding on an ECG which can lead to cardiac arrest) with the use of droperidol. This effectively killed the common use of droperidol and made way for heavy usage of the much more expensive non-generic 5-HT3 serotonin receptor antagonists on the market even though these newer drugs had also been shown to prolong QTc as much, if not more than droperidol. In addition, each of the 5-HT3 antagonists available at that time had peer-reviewed reports of causing significant cardiac abnormalities, and in some cases, death. Despite an apparent discrepancy that deeply concerned the anesthesia community, the FDA persisted in keeping the black box warning, while at the same time did not place any restrictions on the more expensive 5-HT3 antagonists.\n\nBlood collecting organizations, such as the American Red Cross, have policies in accordance with FDA guidelines that prohibit accepting blood donations from any \"male who has had sex with another male since 1977, even once\". The inclusion of homo- and bisexual men on the prohibited list has created some controversy, but the FDA and Red Cross cite the need to protect blood recipients from HIV as justification for the continued ban. Even with PCR-based testing of blood products, a \"window period\" may still exist in which an HIV-positive unit of blood would test negative. All potential donors from HIV high-risk groups are deferred for this reason, including men who have sex with men. The issue has been periodically revisited by the Blood Products Advisory Committee within the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, and was last reconfirmed on May 24, 2007. Documentation from these meetings is available to the public.\n\nHowever, in 2006, the AABB, America's Blood Centers and American Red Cross recommended to the FDA that the deferral period for men who had sex with other men should be changed to be equivalent with the deferral period for heterosexual's judged to be at risk. The FDA chose to uphold the blood ban. Female sexual partners of MSM (men who have sex with men) are deferred for one year since the last exposure. This is the same policy used for any sexual partner of someone in a high-risk group. The intent of these policies is to ensure that blood is collected from a population that is at low risk for disease, since the tests are not perfect and human error may lead to infected units not being properly discarded. The policy was first put in place in 1985.\nIn April 2005, the FDA issued a statement asserting that cannabis had no medical value and should not be accepted as a medicine, despite a great deal of research suggesting the opposite. The supporters of medical cannabis legalization criticized the FDA's statement as a politically motivated one instead of one based on solid science. A group of congressmen led by Maurice Hinchey wrote a letter to FDA's commissioner Andrew von Eschenbach, expressing their disapproval of the FDA's statement and pointed out the FDA's rejection of medical cannabis was inconsistent with the findings of the Institute of Medicine, which stated cannabis does have medical benefits. While the FDA has not approved marijuana it has approved THC (a compound found in cannabis) as an active ingredient for medicinal use. Critics argue that this approval is a politically motivated attempt to allow special interest groups to have patents over the substance, perhaps because the patents on previously patented competing substances have expired.\n\nNine FDA scientists appealed to President George W. Bush and at the time, President-elect Barack Obama over pressure from management to manipulate data, mainly in relation to the review process for medical devices. These concerns were highlighted in a 2006 report on the agency as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46911592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46911592", "title": "Crown rabbi (Iberia)", "text": "Crown rabbi (Iberia)\n\nIn the Iberian peninsula, the crown rabbi (Spanish: ' or Old Portuguese: ' (\"chief rabbi\") ) was a secular, administrative post occupied by a member of the Jewish community for the benefit of the governing state, and existed in the kingdoms of Castile, Aragon, Navarre and Portugal as far back as the 13th century, and is referred to as crown rabbi by historians in English, as well as by court rabbi and other terms.\n\nIn Spanish this position was known as \"\" or , which can be translated literally as \"chief rabbi\" or \"court rabbi\", respectively, and which is referred to in some English sources as \"crown rabbi\" and in others as \"court rabbi\". In Sicily (part of Aragon) the position was known locally as the \"dayyan kalali\" and in Portuguese as \"arrabi-mor\". The derivation of arrabi mor is through a very unusual, three-language merger of parts in Judaeo-Portuguese, from Hebrew \"rabi\" (noun, \"rabbi\") preceded by Arabic definite article \"ar\" (\"the\", from \"al\" + initial \"r-\" consonsant), and Portuguese \"mor\" (\"adj.\", \"chief\", in normal postposition).\n\nThe concept of an official rabbi performing administrative duties and acting as an intermediary existed as far back as the 13th century in the kingdoms of Castile, Aragon, and Portugal and elsewhere in the Iberian peninsula. \n\nThe crown rabbi was one of the chief ways for the kingdoms in the peninsula to exert power over their Jewish communities. Those officials fulfilling this position often acquired significant secular power over their communities, and sometimes over provinces or even kingdoms.\n\nIn Castile, the Court Rabbinate extended as an institution from 1255 until Expulsion in 1492. They were often laymen, not rabbis, and had near dictatorial authority of their flock. They presided in appeals cases and international synods, and might also be a court physician, as well as tax collector over both the Jewish as well as the Christian community. The last one to hold the office of crown rabbi of Castile was Abraham Seneor who became a \"converso\" rather than be expelled.\n\nIn 1386 in the Kingdom of Aragon for example, King John I in the context of a time of political reform, issued edicts defining the functions and duties of the as intermediary between the power of the kingdom and that of the \"aljama\", or Jewish community. There were various requirements as to the good character and faith of the person holding this charge, as well as a requirement that he live among the entourage of the Court, and thus away from his community, and in constant contact with the Christian majority population. His powers and authorities over the of Castile, economic, judicial, and otherwise, were specified.\n\nIn Portugal, the \"arrabi\" was a Jewish official who acted as a private municipal judge in a locality, chosen from among the community. \n\nThe term \"arrabi\" is attested from the late 12th century in Latin and Portuguese under Afonso III, and is mentioned in a judicial sense in municipal legislation documents. Sometimes it appears as \"Rabi\". Documents from Lisbon, Leiria and elsewhere suggest that there was one \"arrabi\" per community, who was an outpost of royal authority, parallel to and separate from the traditional rabbi who tended to their flock's religious and spiritual needs.\n\nPresiding above the \"arrabis\" was a high functionary of the crown known as the \"arrabi mor\" (or arrabi-môr; \"chief rabbi\") and reporting to the King. Besides supervising the administration of justice, he also was in charge of fiscal administration and presided over the \"ouvidores\" (auditors) of the kingdom. \n\nThe position of \"arrabi mor\" emerged in Portugal as a result of efforts begun in the 12th century to centralize the legal and fiscal system in the country. By the late 13th century this effort extended to all of Portuguese Jewry, as manifested by the creation of a network of Jewish officials in each locality. The head of this network was the \"arrabi mor\" (chief rabbi) who acted as the royal tax collector similar to the position of the \"almoxarife mayor\" (chief financial administrator) in Castile. Under him were seven officials also called \"arrabis\" or \"ouvidores\" (auditors) who were responsible for taxes in their region (\"arrabiado\"); the local \"arrabis\" were assigned to individual communities after the model in Castile and Aragon.\n\nThe high post tended to be filled by wealthy Jews, and the post was handed down and controlled by family dynasties. The first \"arrabi mor\" mentioned was Don Judah in the 13th century under King Dinis, followed by his son Guedelha. The main duties were judicial, and fiscal. Judicially, the decisions of the \"arrabi mor\" concerning matters in the Jewish community were final, per a decree by Afonso III in 1266, and he was responsible only for the highest issues, as the simpler suits and appeals were judged by the local \"arrabis\".\n\nA powerful \"arrabi-mor\" could sometimes influence the laws of the kingdom in favor of the \"aljama\". Such a man was Moses Navarro under King John I of Portugal. Following the carnage and forced conversions in the 1391 massacre of Jews in Seville and its aftermath in other kingdoms of the Iberian peninsula, the devastation threatened to spill across the border into Portugal, but Moses Navarro exercised his power and influence with the monarch and his knowledge of edicts from the Vatican by Popes Boniface IX and Clement VI friendly to Jews to prevent any harm from coming to Portuguese Jewry. King John upon hearing of the edicts, immediately promulgated a law on July 17, 1392 prohibiting any persecution, which was obeyed gladly by his subjects due to the extent of his popularity in the land. As a result, Portugal became a safe haven for Jews escaping persecution in Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37121257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37121257", "title": "CryptoParty", "text": "CryptoParty\n\nCryptoParty (Crypto-Party) is a grassroots global endeavour to introduce the basics of practical cryptography such as the Tor anonymity network, key signing parties, disk encryption and virtual private networks to the general public. The project primarily consists of a series of free public workshops.\n\nA successor to the Cypherpunks of the 1990s, CryptoParty was conceived in late August 2012 by an Australian journalist who goes by the \"pen name\" Asher Wolf in a Twitter post following the passage of the Cybercrime Legislation Amendment Bill 2011 and the proposal of a two-year data retention law in that country, the Cybercrime Legislation Amendment Bill 2011. The DIY, self-organizing movement immediately went viral, with a dozen autonomous CryptoParties being organized within hours in cities throughout Australia, the US, the UK, and Germany.\n\nAs of mid-October 2012 some 30 CryptoParties have been held globally, some on a continuing basis, and CryptoParties were held on the same day in Reykjavik, Brussels and Manila.\n\nCryptoParty has received early messages of support from the Electronic Frontier Foundation and (purportedly) AnonyOps, as well as the NSA whistleblower Thomas Drake, WikiLeaks central editor Heather Marsh, and \"Wired\" reporter Quinn Norton. Eric Hughes, the author of \"A Cypherpunk's Manifesto\" nearly two decades before, delivered the keynote address, \"Putting the Personal Back in Personal Computers\", at the Amsterdam CryptoParty on 2012-09-27. Marcin de Kaminski, founding member of Piratbyrån which in turn founded The Pirate Bay, regards CryptoParty as the most important civic project in cryptography today, and Cory Doctorow has characterized a CryptoParty as being \"like a Tupperware party for learning crypto.\" \"Der Spiegel\" in December 2014 mentioned \"crypto parties\" in the wake of the Edward Snowden leaks in an article about the NSA.\n\nThe first draft of the 442-page \"CryptoParty Handbook\" (the hard copy of which is available at cost), was pulled together in three days using the book sprint approach, and was released 2012-10-04 under a CC-BY-SA license; it remains under constant revision.\n\nIn April and May 2013, the movement's main wiki page, cryptoparty.org, was subject to a series of spam attacks that eventually resulted in the site being taken out of service. Protection against spam attacks was rendered more difficult than on other wikis by a site-specific policy permitting edits from users employing anonymization services. Spam attacks were also facilitated by the use of inappropriate MediaWiki settings in ConfirmEdit plugin. The use of SimpleCaptcha is not recommended by the ConfirmEdit authors (\" [...] used by very few wikis outside WMF if any, probably because of scarce effectiveness\").\n\nIn May 2014, \"Wired\" reported that Edward Snowden, while employed by Dell as an NSA contractor, organized a local CryptoParty at a small hackerspace in Honolulu, Hawaii on December 11, six months before becoming well known for leaking tens of thousands of secret U.S. government documents. During the CryptoParty, Snowden taught 20 Hawaii residents how to encrypt their hard drives and use the Internet anonymously. The event was filmed by Snowden's then-girlfriend, but the video has never been released online. In a follow-up post to the CryptoParty wiki, Snowden pronounced the event a \"huge success.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21617815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21617815", "title": "Cyber defamation law", "text": "Cyber defamation law\n\nCyber defamation is not a specific criminal offense, misdemeanor or tort, but rather defamation or slander conducted via digital media, usually through the Internet.\n\nPenalties for \"cyber defamation\" vary from country to country, but the fundamental rights covered in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and European Union Fundamental Human Rights.\n\nStopping or addressing defamation can be difficult. If the person has no serious grudge, then a cease and desist letter may stop the behavior and get the statements removed from the Internet. On the other hand, if the person is acting out of spite, it may be necessary to file a report with the police depending on local law.\n\nThe cyber defamation law that the Korean government pursues allows police to crack down on hateful comments without any reports from victims. The only country where such cyber defamation law is being implemented is China. South Korea is the first democratic country in the process of introducing the law.\n\nThe Korea Communications Commission (KCC), South Korea's telecommunications and broadcasting regulator, has been considering revising the current Telecommunications Law and put more regulations and deeper scrutiny on major Internet portals.\n\nThere have been talks about introducing the stricter laws in cyberspace. A famous celebrity's suicide in South Korea, triggered the controversies once again as to whether such law is necessary. The law supported by the governing Grand National Party (GNP), if implemented, will allow police to investigate the cyber defamation cases without any complaints of the victims. The opposition Democratic Party has been against the introduction of such law.\n\n\n\nA Research & Research survey of 800 Korean people conducted on Jan. 14, 2009 showed that 60% supported the GNP-led bill dealing with cyber defamation, and 32.1% opposed it.\n\nSome Korean celebrities have suffered from severe depression, caused in part by malicious online comments, before committing suicide.\n\nVast majority of cyber defamation police reports arise from online games. League of Legends is a game which is notorious for such acts. In 2015 alone, South Korean law enforcement received and investigated over 8000 reports of cyber defamation; over half of these cases involve League of Legends where players head to police stations as a retaliation after being verbally abused by teammates or opponents. \n\nThere are even 'settlement fee hunters', where players enter games and grief with intention of being insulted by other players. In some cases, such settlement fee hunters file police reports against over 50 other individuals at once. Most of the victims of settlement fee hunters are teenagers, since many parents are willing to pay settlement fees ranging from 300 thousand to 2 million KRW (300 to 2000 USD) to avoid their children having to go to trial and risk gaining criminal records.\n\n"}
{"id": "6135028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6135028", "title": "Dechert", "text": "Dechert\n\nDechert LLP is an international law firm of more than 900 lawyers with practices in corporate and securities, complex litigation, finance and real estate, and financial services and asset management. It was founded in Philadelphia and is registered as a limited liability partnership under Pennsylvania law.\n\nThe firm's first predecessor was formed in 1875 by Wayne MacVeagh and George Tucker Bispham. MacVeagh who had previously served as United States Ambassador to Turkey, and went on to become United States Attorney General under President James Garfield and also United States Ambassador to Italy during the 1890s. Bispham was made a professor at University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1884.\n\nDechert has been recognized among the top 10 U.S. law firms for pro bono work in \"The American Lawyer\"'s Pro Bono Survey, an annual report which rates the nation's 200 highest grossing law firms based on their level of pro bono activity. The report confirmed that it remained the top law firm for international pro bono work. In August 2014, Dechert received the American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6459778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6459778", "title": "Decree of Muharram", "text": "Decree of Muharram\n\nThe Decree, or Firman, of Muharram can refer to a number of decrees or firmans issued by the Ottoman Empire in the Islamic month of Muharram. The most important of which, both issued by ‘Abdu’l-Hamid II during the decline of the Ottoman Empire, are:\n\n\nAdditionally, the term may be used to refer to the Islamic tradition that it is unlawful (\"haram\") to go to war in Muharram.\n"}
{"id": "23677291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23677291", "title": "Doe v. Unocal Corp.", "text": "Doe v. Unocal Corp.\n\nDoe v. Unocal, 395 F.3d 932 (9th Cir. 2002), opinion vacated and rehearing en banc granted, 395 F.3d 978 (9th Cir. 2003), was a lawsuit filed against Unocal for alleged human rights violations.\n\nIn September 1996, four Burmese villagers filed suit against Unocal and its parent company, the Union Oil Company of California under the Alien Tort Claims Act (also known as the Alien Tort Statute), and in October 1996, another fourteen villagers also brought suit. The suits alleged various human rights violations, including forced labor, wrongful death, false imprisonment, assault, intentional infliction of emotional distress and negligence, all relating to the construction of the Yadana gas pipeline project in Myanmar, formerly Burma. In September and October 2000, some of those plaintiffs also filed lawsuits in the Superior Court of California for many of the same state-law tort claims.\n\nEarthRights International, the Center for Constitutional Rights, Paul Hoffman, Hadsell & Stormer, and Judith Brown Chomsky served as co-counsel to the plaintiffs. \n\nIn 1997, a U.S. federal district court in Los Angeles agreed to hear \"Doe v. Unocal\". The Court ruled that corporations and their executive officers can be held legally responsible under the Alien Tort Claims Act for violations of international human rights norms in foreign countries, and that U.S. courts have the authority to adjudicate such claims. In 2000, the district court dismissed the case on the grounds that Unocal could not be held liable unless Unocal wanted the military to commit abuses, and that plaintiffs had not made this showing. \n\nPlaintiffs appealed this decision, and on September 18, 2002, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed portions of the district court’s decision, allowing the lawsuit against Unocal to go forward. 395 F.3d 932. However, in February 2003, the Ninth Circuit Court vacated the panel decision and agreed to rehear the appeal before an eleven-judge \"en banc\" panel.\n\nFollowing a ruling in the California state court actions that would have permitted those cases to proceed toward a trial as to Unocal's liability, and shortly prior to when the case was to be argued before the Ninth Circuit \"en banc\" court in December 2004 (the argument had been delayed in order to address the impact of the recent Supreme Court ruling in \"Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain\"), the parties announced that they had reached a tentative settlement. Once the settlement was finalized in March 2005, the federal appeal was withdrawn and the state cases were voluntarily dismissed. According to a joint statement released by the parties, \"the settlement will compensate plaintiffs and provide funds enabling plaintiffs and their representatives to develop programs to improve living conditions, health care and education and protect the rights of people from the pipeline region. These initiatives will provide substantial assistance to people who may have suffered hardships in the region.\" Subsequent to the settlement, the district court opinion from 2000 was also vacated.\n"}
{"id": "47258605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47258605", "title": "Domfreiheit", "text": "Domfreiheit\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, the Domfreiheit (German: Cathedral Freedom) or Domimmunität (Cathedral Immunity) was the area immediately around the seat of the Bishop of a cathedral and its cathedral chapter, which was managed by the Domdechant; the English term is cathedral close. This area stretched only a few hundred metres from the outbuildings of the cathedral, at most, and was usually surrounded by a fortified wall (Domburg). They belonged to the secular domain or Hochstift of the bishop.\n\nThe area of the Domfreiheit was not part of the surrounding city's jurisdiction, but had its own jurisdiction, which included both the clergy and their servants. It contained the residences of the Domherren and their staff. This area was not subject to civic taxes - hence the term \"Freiheit\" (Freedom). There were, thus, two distinct sovereign entities within the city walls.\n\nThis led to ever greater tension in many cities over the centuries, as is clear, for example, from the entry for 1612 in the Speyerer Chronicle by town secretary Christoph Lehmen. He says: \"There have been many long and distinct quarrels between the citizenry and the clergy in the state. Therefore King Rudolph ordained by treaty that the civic council should be in charge of it.\"\n\nWhere the Reformation found root, most cloisters were secularised and, as a rule, the Domfreiheit also ceased to exist. It did not last much longer in the cities which remained Catholic. With the secularisation of the Diocese of Bremen as Bremen-Verden in 1648, after almost eighty years as a Lutheran bishopric, its Domfreiheit in the centre of the city came under Swedish control. From 1715 it belonged to Hanover and only in 1803 did it come under the control of the surrounding city.\nAfter the abolition of the Diocese of Ratzeburg in the Reformation, its property was incorporated into the Principality of Ratzeburg, which was awarded to the duchy of Mecklenburg in 1648 and formed the western part of Mecklenburg-Strelitz after 1701. The rest of the city of Ratzeburg, however, belonged to the Duch of Lauenburg.\n\nRelatively well preserved Domfreiheiten include those in Halberstadt, Hildesheim, Magdeburg, Merseburg, Münster, Meissen, Naumburg und Trier.\n\n"}
{"id": "1178418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178418", "title": "Duty of fair representation", "text": "Duty of fair representation\n\nThe duty of fair representation is incumbent upon U.S. labor unions that are the exclusive bargaining representative of workers in a particular group. It is the obligation to represent all employees fairly, in good faith, and without discrimination. Originally recognized by the United States Supreme Court in a series of cases in the mid-1940s involving racial discrimination by railway workers' unions covered by the Railway Labor Act, the duty of fair representation also applies to workers covered by the National Labor Relations Act and, depending on the terms of the statute, to public sector workers covered by state and local laws regulating labor relations.\n\nThe duty applies to virtually every action that a union might take in dealing with an employer as the representative of employees, from its negotiation of the terms of a collective bargaining agreement, to its handling of grievances arising under that agreement, as well as its operation of an exclusive hiring hall and its enforcement of the union security provisions of a collective bargaining agreement. However, the duty does not ordinarily apply to rights that a worker can enforce independently; the union has no duty to assist the employees it represents in filing claims under a workers' compensation statute or other laws.\n\nThe duty likewise does not apply for the most part to unions' internal affairs, such as their right to discipline employees for violation of the union's own rules or union officers' handling of union funds, which are regulated instead by the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act. The courts have, on the other hand, applied the same principles that govern the duty of fair representation to union members' suits to enforce union constitutions.\n\nGenerally the courts have taken a deferential approach to reviewing unions' decisions challenged as a breach of their duty of fair representation. Recognizing that the collective bargaining process typically requires compromises, which may favor some workers at the expense of others, the courts have held that a union only breaches its duty if it acts arbitrarily, in bad faith or discriminatorily. Practical considerations have also led the courts to refuse to second-guess unions' decisions: if a court or jury could substitute its judgment as to whether a particular grievance had merit, then unions could not function, since their decisions would rarely be final in any practical sense. Accordingly, the courts have refused to overturn union decisions as arbitrary so long as they were based on a reasoned decision by the union, even if the court might believe that this decision was wrong.\n\nIn recent years the courts and the National Labor Relations Board have applied the duty of fair representation to regulate the manner in which unions enforce the union security provisions of a collective bargaining agreement. Unlike the standard applied to unions' decisions concerning grievance handling and collective bargaining negotiations, the courts and the Board have regulated this area very extensively. They have specified the types of expenses that a union can include in the fees that it charges employees who choose not to join the union but are required to pay dues under an agency shop or union shop clause, the accounting procedures used to calculate those amounts, the procedures which the union and employees must follow if an individual worker objects to paying the full amount of dues or challenges the union's calculation of the lesser amount that non-members can be required to pay, and the procedures that the union must follow before it can force the employer to fire an employee for non-payment of dues. Even stricter standards are applied to unions covered by the Railway Labor Act and to unions of governmental employees on constitutional grounds.\n\nThe NLRB applies a similarly strict standard in reviewing unions' enforcement of exclusive hiring halls, i.e., those in which the employer is bound, by contract, to hire only employees referred to it by the union. The NLRB requires unions to establish clear procedures and to follow those procedures in order to minimize the likelihood that the union would use a hiring hall procedure to exclude non-members or those out of favour with the union from the workplace. On the other hand, the NLRB applies the more deferential standard applied to union decisions generally in the case of non-exclusive hiring halls, i.e., those in which the union has the power to refer applicants for employment but the employer may also hire employees \"off the street\"; in those cases the union is barred from acting arbitrarily, in bad faith or discriminatorily.\n\nThe NLRB recognizes a breach of the duty of fair representation as a violation of the National Labor Relations Act. However, because the duty of fair representation was originally created by judicial interpretation, rather than as an express statutory prohibition, employees covered by the National Labor Relations Act may sue their unions directly, without being required to first exhaust any administrative procedures provided under the National Labor Relations Board. The same is true for workers covered by the Railway Labor Act, which does not provide any administrative procedure for pursuing claims against a union. Employees' claims under either Act are governed by a six-month statute of limitations.\n\nThe NLRB and the courts provide different solutions against unions that breached their duty of fair representation. Because the Board does not usually have the jurisdiction to enforce the collective bargaining agreement or to issue a remedial order against an employer that has violated it, the NLRB often cannot award complete relief to employees. A court, on the other hand, may order an employer to reinstate or pay back pay to an employee if it finds that the employer violated the collective bargaining agreement and may, in some instances, order the union to pay attorneys' fees to a successful plaintiff. These distinctions do not apply to workers covered by the Railway Labor Act since, as noted above, they have no administrative procedures to enforce their rights.\n\nA union may, in some limited circumstances, require employees to exhaust any internal appeals procedures provided under the union's constitution before filing suit. Unions and employers may also generally require employees to exhaust their rights under the grievance arbitration procedures provided for under the collective bargaining agreement before suing the employer for breach of contract. However employees do not usually have to exhaust such procedures if they are suing only the union, since very few collective bargaining agreements even allow for the filing of a grievance against the union by covered employees. To the extent that an employee might have a breach of contract claim against a union arising out of its performance of its duty to represent that employee, the courts will apply the same deferential standards and procedural requirements that they would employ if the worker sued the union on a breach of the duty of fair representation theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "31814081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31814081", "title": "European Journal of Industrial Relations", "text": "European Journal of Industrial Relations\n\nEuropean Journal of Industrial Relations is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers European industrial relations and their theoretical and practical implications. The journal was established in 1995 and is published by Sage Publications. The editor-in-chief is Richard Hyman (London School of Economics and Political Science).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2013 impact factor is 0.822, ranking it 13th out of 26 journals in the category \"Industrial Relations & Labor\".\n"}
{"id": "506931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506931", "title": "European Law Students' Association", "text": "European Law Students' Association\n\nThe European Law Students' Association (ELSA) is an international, independent, non-political, non-profit, non-governmental organisation run by and for law students. ELSA-activities comprise a large variety of academic and professional events that are organised to fulfill the stated vision of ELSA.\n\nFive law students from Austria, Hungary, Poland and West Germany founded ELSA on 4 May 1981. It claims to be the world's largest independent law students association and to be represented at nearly 375 law faculties in 44 countries across Europe with membership of some 50,000 students and young lawyers.\n\nELSA-activities comprise a large variety of academic and professional events that are organised to fulfill the stated vision of ELSA and in order to provide its members opportunities to enhance their skills and to interact with each other.\n\nELSA is organized into local member groups active at university level (Local Group), national member groups active on a national level (National Group), and ELSA International active on an international level. \n\nMembership of ELSA for individual law students is possible through the Local Groups (for instance ELSA Leiden). The Local Groups are member of a National Group (for instance ELSA the Netherlands). The National Groups are part of the international ELSA network, which is managed by ELSA International with headquarters in Brussels, Belgium. ELSA International consists of the International Board, the ELSA International Team, and the Auditors of ELSA. \n\nThe International Board is the supreme executive body of the association. Its members are elected at an International Council Meeting (ICM) (which consists of all the National Groups) for a one-year period. The International Board's responsibilities include the overall co-ordination of the organisation as a whole including the support of member groups both locally and nationally. The International Board also co-ordinates and develops ELSA's collaboration with various international organisations and institutions, governments, law firms, and companies across Europe.\n\nELSA's 350 university-based local groups and 44 national groups as well as the international board are entirely student-managed and administered. Similar to a small franchise, each group creates its own plan of operation in line with the overall goals of the association. Each group recruits and trains its volunteer executives and markets ELSA's programmes to the academic and business community. In combination with the university curriculum, ELSA prepares its members for their future entry into professional life, especially when working in an international environment. The philosophy of ELSA is defined by the following statements regarding its vision, purpose, and means: \n\n\"Vision:\"<br>\"A just world in which there is respect for human dignity and cultural diversity\".\n\n\"Purpose:\"<br>\"To contribute to legal education, to foster mutual understanding and to promote social responsibility of law students and young lawyers\".\n\n\"Means:\"<br>\n\nELSA has gained consultative status with several United Nations bodies. In 1994, ELSA was granted Consultative Status in Category C in UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), and in 1997 ELSA obtained Special Consultative Status with ECOSOC (United Nations Economic and Social Council). In addition UNCITRAL (United Nations Commission on International Trade Law) is inviting ELSA delegations to participate in their sessions.\n\nELSA was part of the Diplomatic Conference of 1998 in Rome where the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court was adopted to establish the International Criminal Court. ELSA participated with a delegation as an NGO represented by an observer.\n\nIn 2000, ELSA was granted Participatory Status with the Council of Europe. This cooperation was further widened with the signing of a Human Rights Partnership between Council of Europe and ELSA in 2008.\n\nFurthermore, ELSA has a co-operation agreement with UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees). In October 2005, ELSA obtained Observer Status with WIPO (World Intellectual Property Organization).\n\nSince 2002, ELSA organizes the John H. Jackson Moot Court Competition (formerly known as ELSA Moot Court Competition) with the support of the WTO. The final round is held at the WTO headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nELSA's activities include the organization of:\n\n\nELSA has members and observers in Albania, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Kingdom.\n\nFurthermore, ELSA co-operates with other student organisations across the world, for instance the Asian Law Students' Association (ALSA) in Asia.\n\nSynergy<br>Synergy is a biannual publication that is printed in 10,000 copies and distributed throughout the network. It contains articles written by members, academics and institutions. The magazine was first published as a newsletter back in 1987.\n\nThorbjørn Jagland, Secretary General of the Council of Europe, is patron of ELSA. Roberto Azevedo, Director-General of the World Trade Organization, is patron of the John H. Jackson Moot Court Competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25935088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25935088", "title": "France–Italy Maritime Boundary Agreement", "text": "France–Italy Maritime Boundary Agreement\n\nThe France–Italy Maritime Boundary Agreement is a 1986 treaty between France and Italy which delimits the maritime boundary between the two countries in the Strait of Bonifacio.\n\nThe Strait of Bonifacio separates the French island of Corsica from the Italian island of Sardinia. The treaty was signed in Paris on 28 November 1986. The boundary set out by the text of the treaty is a relatively short 40 nautical miles long and consists of five straight-line maritime segments defined by six individual coordinate points. The agreed-to boundary is an approximate equidistant line between the two islands.\n\nThe treaty came into force on 15 May 1989 after both countries had ratified it. The full name of the treaty is \"Agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Delimitation of the Maritime Boundaries in the Area of the Strait of Bonifacio\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13966462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13966462", "title": "Fraudulent concealment", "text": "Fraudulent concealment\n\nFraudulent concealment is a common law doctrine that may be invoked to toll a statute of limitations.\n"}
{"id": "6635442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6635442", "title": "Health law", "text": "Health law\n\nHealth law is the federal, state, and local law, rules, regulations and other jurisprudence among providers, payers and vendors to the health care industry and its patients; and (2) delivery of health care services; all with an emphasis on operations, regulatory and transactional legal issues. Similarly, The Florida Bar defines it as \"legal issues involving federal, state, or local law, rules or regulations and health care provider issues, regulation of providers, legal issues regarding relationships between and among providers, legal issues regarding relationships between providers and payors, and legal issues regarding the delivery of health care services.\" American University's college of law, in health law and policy, divides health law into 4 areas: health care law (focused on treatment), public and population health law (focused on prevention), bioethics, and global health law.\n\nHealth Law was first adopted as a separate legal specialty in which attorneys could become \"board certified\" and in which they could hold themselves out as a \"legal specialist\" or \"legal expert\" by The Florida Bar's Board of Legal Specialization in 1995. Later Texas adopted a similar program in 2002 modeling its program after Florida's.\n\nBecoming Board Certified in Health Law can be a challenging process, structured to allow only those attorneys who are most qualified in the area to become certified by the bar or licensing authority.\n\nOne way in which an attorney in the United States can obtain additional education to practice health law or to use in becoming certified in the specialty of health law, is through one of the Master of Laws (LL.M.) programs that are offered by certain law schools. The LL.M. is considered to be a postgraduate law degree which shows a higher level of course work and study above the basic law degree (J.D. or B.S.L.). Some law schools with graduate law programs do offer a general LL.M. with a course emphasis on health law, global health law, public health law, forensic medicine or similar studies. Presently, twenty-five U.S. law schools offer health law programs.\n\nIn the U.S. particularly, medicine and the law are interconnected. The law intervenes to regulate the duty to treat, that essentially is ruled by contract law, which gives a doctor the right to refuse treatment, in the absence of an emergency, when no previous doctor patient relationship existed. However Doctors cannot discriminate because of disability, ADA, abandon a patient, or not render services in an emergency according to EMTALA (it aims doctors in emergency rooms, where they need to screen, stabilize and transfer.\nIt also regulates the fiduciary duties of doctor-patient, such as privacy HIPAA, informed consent (battery unlawful touch), conflict of interests, (Moore case) etc.\n\nMedical malpractice is also an area where law and medicine are interconnected, which it relates to the standard of care, where custom similar locality rule may apply. There may be different schools of thought, where reputability is the issue at hand, and alternative theories that can be based on the hand formula.\n\nThere are other aspects of importance within the area of medical malpractice, such as causation, where medical probability and loss of chance are present. Damages, where the value of life and tort reforms appear to differ, and affirmative defenses, within the doctrine of informed consent, where waivers cannot suffice. There are rules such as the discovery rule that states that the statute of limitations starts to run when the injury has been discovered and not when it took place.\n\nMedical Liability and Treatment relations Third Edition\n\nSome areas of law it includes are:\n\nThe terms \"legislation\" and \"law\" are used to refer generically to statutes, regulation and other legal instruments (e.g. ministerial decrees) that may be the forms of law used in a particular country.\n\nIn general, there are a wide range of regulatory strategies that might be used to ensure people's health and safety. Increasingly, regulators are taking an approach of \"responsive regulation\". This involves using mechanisms that are responsive to the context, conduct and culture of those being regulated, providing for a range of regulatory mechanisms to achieve the behavior desired. Where appropriate, the aim is to use incentives before sanctions. However, when those being regulated do not respond accordingly, escalating sanctions can be invoked. These strategies may be broadly classified into five groups:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35614913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35614913", "title": "Human Rights and Climate Change", "text": "Human Rights and Climate Change\n\nHuman Rights and Climate Change is a conceptual and legal framework under which international human rights and their relationship to global warming are studied, analyzed, and addressed. The framework has been employed by governments, United Nations organizations, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, human rights and environmental advocates, and academics to guide national and international policy on climate change under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the core international human rights instruments.\n\nIn 2005, Inuit activist Sheila Watt-Cloutier filed a petition to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights seeking relief \"from human rights violations resulting from the impacts of global warming and climate change caused by acts and omissions of the United States.\" The petition was rejected, but the Commission invited and heard testimony on the relationship between human rights and climate change from representatives for the Inuit in 2007.\n\nThat same year, the Malé Declaration on the Human Dimension of Global Climate Change \"stated explicitly (and for the first time in an international agreement) that 'climate change has clear and immediate implications for the full enjoyment of human rights' and called on the United Nations human rights system to address the issue as a matter of urgency.\"\n\nThe following year, the UN Human Rights Council (HRC) unanimously adopted Resolution 7/23, recognizing that \"climate change poses an immediate and far-reaching threat to people and communities around the world and has implications for the full enjoyment of human rights,\" and citing the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The HRC reaffirmed and expanded these statements with resolutions 10/4 of 25 March 2009 and 18/22 of 30 September 2011.\n\nIn 2009, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) released an analytical study identifying specific rights and people groups likely to be adversely affected by climate disruptions. The report drew on the submissions of some 30 nations as well as ten United Nations Agencies and dozens of other organizations. The report identified displaced persons, conflict and security risks as well as impaired rights of indigenous peoples, women, and children as major concerns.\n\nIn 2010, the Conference of Parties to the UNFCCC reproduced the HRC's language identifying the relationship between human rights and climate change in its report on the 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Cancun, Mexico. The report on the outcome of the Conference emphasized that \"Parties should, in all climate change related actions, fully respect human rights.\"\n\nRecent years have seen an increased recognition of the link between human rights and the environment, yet there are still many questions surrounding the relationship between them. As a result, in 2012 the HRC established a mandate on human rights obligations relating to the enjoyment of a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment. A preliminary report by the appointed Independent Expert, John H. Knox, further stated that there needed to be priority in providing greater conceptual clarity to the application of human rights obligations related to the environment.\n\nIn 2014, all 78 of the United Nations Special Procedures Mandate Holders issued a joint statement on Human Rights Day calling for states to incorporate their existing obligations under the human rights framework into climate change negotiations. This would have the effect of bringing the rights of those affected by climate change to the forefront of all response strategies. \n\nAs of March 2015, there is now a Special Rapporteur on human rights and the environment, an extension of the mandate of the former Independent Expert on human rights obligations relating to the enjoyment of a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment. Leading up to the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, the Special Rapporteur informed states that they should ensure their human rights obligations encompass the appropriate perspective towards climate change when negotiating future agreements.\n\nThe Paris Agreement, as adopted on the 12 December 2015 at the Conference of the Parties, is the most important indication of increasing awareness towards the relationship between climate change and human rights. The Paris Agreement is the first climate agreement to recognise the relevance of human rights, stating:Parties should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity.\n\nClimate change is inducing not only ecological adjustments, but is also impacting the social, economic, political, cultural and legal aspects of societies around the world. The HRC has affirmed that human rights obligations have the ability to strengthen both international and national policy-making in the area of climate change. The 1972 Stockholm Declaration provided the basis for further elaboration of a human right to environmental quality. Environmental protection is not commonly included in human rights treaties. Rather environmental protection is derived from the rights that those treaties protect, such as the rights to life, food and water and health. Moving forward, human rights law in the context of climate change policy-making may help to establish minimum standards of basic human rights that can be adopted in international and national mitigation and adaption measures.\n\n Most international statements on human rights and climate change have emphasized the potential adverse impacts of climate change on the rights to life, food, water, health, housing, development, and self-determination. These rights are enumerated in the core conventions of international human rights law, though not all HRC members or UNFCCC parties are signatories of these conventions.\n\nThe right to life is protected by Article 6 of the ICCPR where every human being has the inherent right to life. The right to life is inextricably linked to the measure of fulfilment of other rights. There are both projected and observed effects that climate change will have on the right to life. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) fourth assessment report projected an increase in people suffering from death and injury occurring from an increase in floods, storms, heatwaves, fires and droughts. Climate change will equally affect the right to life through an increase in hunger and malnutrition and related disorder impacting child growth and development, respiratory morbidity and ground-level ozone. Rising sea levels is one of the flow-on effects of climate change, resulting from warming water and melting ice sheets. Measuring sea level rise is a complicated affair, however the IPCC have projected an increase in global mean sea level of between 0.44m and 0.74m by 2100. For low-lying coastal islands such as Male', in the Maldives, a sea level rise of 0.5 metres would inundate 15 per cent of the island by 2025, and flood half of it by 2100. As 42 per cent of the population lives within 100m within the coastline, even partial flooding is likely to result in drowning, injury and loss of life.\n\nObserved effects are those where the right to life has already inhibited the right to life. There is difficulty in studying the impacts of climate change itself because of the issue of scale; climate change is measured in decades. There is more than 95 per cent chance that anthropogenic climate change quadrupled the risk of extreme summer heat events in Europe in the decade 1998 to 2008. There is a probability of 75 per cent that the 2003 heat wave in Europe was attributable to climate change. On this basis, the excess mortality rate from this event registered at 15,000 deaths in France alone.\n\nThis is derived from Article II of the ICESCR where States party to the Covenant have to maximise their available resources to the achieve the right to adequate food. Climate change is going to affect all four pillars of food security; availability, access, utilization and stability. A 2008 report by the Special Rapporteur on the right to food has stated that the way the world grows food will have to undergo radical change to cope with a growing population and the effects of climate change, while avoiding environmental collapse. The Paris Agreement recognises the fundamental priority of ensuring food security and the particular vulnerabilities of food production systems to the adverse impacts of climate change. Article 2 calls for adaption to the adverse impacts of climate change and the lowering of greenhouse gas emissions in a manner that will not threaten food production. The IPCC fourth assessment report projects that food production will increase in the mid to high latitudes with a temperature increase of between 1° and 3 °C, however at lower latitudes crop productivity is set to decrease which increases the risk of food insecurity in poorer regions of the world. The United Nations Development Programme estimate an additional 600 million people will face malnutrition due to climate change. This is likely to have a particularly devastating effect on Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThe Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR) notes that the right to water is not only an essential condition to survival, but also that it is inextricably linked with other rights, such as; housing, attainable standard of health, adequate standard of living, and right to food. The Stern Review states that people will feel the effects of climate change the most strongly through changes in patterns of water distribution around the globe. Those areas that are already experiencing dry conditions will experience a further decrease in water availability, with several (but not all) climate models predicting up to a 30 per cent decrease in annual run-off in the Mediterranean Basin, parts of southern Africa and South America for a 2 °C global temperature rise, and 40 – 50 per cent for 4 °C rise. The IPCC fifth assessment report states that freshwater-related risks increase significantly with increasing greenhouse gas concentrations, with climate change over the 21st century projected to reduce renewable surface water and groundwater resources significantly in most dry subtropical regions.\n\nArticle 12 of the ICESCR identifies the \"right to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health\". Most national constitutions protect the right to health in some manner, and it is widely safeguarded in other international and regional instruments. Climate change is going to amplify health disparities between the rich and poor in different parts of the world. The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that since 1970, climate change is responsible for 150,000 deaths every year through increasing incidence in the spread of diarrhoea, malaria and malnutrition predominantly in Africa and other developing regions. Just a 1 °C increase in global temperature from pre-industrial levels could double the annual deaths from climate change (according to WHO).\n\nPotential climate induced migration is currently one of the most disputed flow-on effects from climate change. Research suggests that climate change may create some 50 to 200 million new internally displaced persons and international refugees by the year 2100. \"Mega-deltas\" in Asia, Africa, and small islands are at high risk of floods and storms, which will cause large-scale displacement of the local populations. Climate change induced migration will either affect or violate basic international human right norms.\n\nThere is significant discussion around the concept of climate justice for the environmental migrant or 'climate refugee'. This concept aims to fill a gap in the legal and political sectors for the millions of people that are not able to receive international legal protection as this source of migration is yet to be included in regional and international law. There is currently no established definition for who can be classified as a climate refugee because it has not yet been enshrined in international law. In 2014 Siego Alesana left the small island developing state of Tuvalu because of the uncertainty surrounding the adverse effects of climate change. Tuvalu is only 4.6m above sea level and faces the imminent danger posed by rising sea levels. Although the impacts of climate change were put forward on behalf of Alesana and his family, the case rested largely on humanitarian grounds. However the Immigration and Protection Tribunal did state that environmental degradation caused by climate change was already a feature of life in Tuvalu. Although this decision wasn't based on impacts of climate change that is not to say that climate change related factors weren't taken into consideration at all.\n\nThe International Organization for Migration has put forward a working definition of environmental migrant: Environmental migrants are persons or groups of persons who, predominantly for reasons of sudden or progressive change in the environment that adversely affects their lives or living conditions, are obliged to leave their habitual homes, or choose to do so, either temporarily or permanently, and who move within their country or abroad.Until there is a legally binding definition of what constitutes an environmental migrant, it will be difficult for any true justice to be served. The concept of climate justice would see all human rights implemented in the most transparent way in order to maintain basic standards in the face of the somewhat unknown impacts that will be created by climate change.\n\nInternational peacebuilding NGO International Alert names 46 countries where climate change effects (including water scarcity, loss of arable land, extreme weather events, shortened growing seasons, and melting glaciers) may interact with economic, social, and political forces to create \"a high risk of violent conflict.\"\n\nIndigenous peoples have a unique position when it comes to discussion of the impacts climate change will have on a population. Many indigenous populations live subsistence lifestyles, which in turn are disrupted severely when it comes to the impact of climate change. In many countries, municipal law differs in application to indigenous peoples than the rest of the population which complicates any legal remedy. Climate change impacts indigenous peoples differently not only because of their physical and spiritual connections to the land and water, but also because they have a specialised ecological and traditional knowledge that can be used to find the best mitigation strategy of those effects.\n\nUN Human Rights organs have identified the rights of indigenous peoples as particularly vulnerable to the disruptive effects of climate change. Due to climate change, indigenous people have been threatened with their livelihood and cultural idententies across the world North America, Europe, Latin America, Africa, Asia and the Pacific. Approximately 370 million indigenous people are affected.\n\nResearchers at the Overseas Development Institute identified that children in South Asia may be particularly vulnerable to violations of human rights following climate related disasters. These can include gender-based violence, child labour, family break-ups and barriers to their development and learning. The researchers argue that child rights are rarely prioritised in policies to reduce disaster risk or adapt to climate change and that climate change adaptation policies must tailor interventions to address critical aspects of child rights, particularly child protection and education.\n\nGiven that many of the world's poorest citizens depend directly on the environment for all or part of their daily livelihoods, many international development agencies see climate change and development as \"inextricably linked.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2040766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2040766", "title": "Idealism in international relations", "text": "Idealism in international relations\n\nIdealism in foreign policy holds that a state should make its internal political philosophy the goal of its foreign policy. For example, an idealist might believe that ending poverty at home should be coupled with tackling poverty abroad. U.S. President Woodrow Wilson was an early advocate of idealism. Wilson's idealism was a precursor to liberal international relations theory, which would arise amongst the \"institution-builders\" after World War II. It particularly emphasized the ideal of American exceptionalism.\n\nMore generally, Michael W. Doyle describes idealism as based on the belief that other nations' stated good intentions can be relied on, whereas Realism holds that good intentions are in the long run subject to the security dilemma described by John H. Herz.\n\nHedley Bull wrote:\n\nSince the 1880s, there has been growing study of the major writers of this idealist tradition of thought in international relations, including Sir Alfred Zimmern, Norman Angell, John Maynard Keynes, John A. Hobson, Leonard Woolf, Gilbert Murray, Florence Stawell (known as Melian Stawell), Philip Henry Kerr, 11th Marquess of Lothian, Arnold J. Toynbee, Lester Pearson and David Davies.\n\nMuch of this writing has contrasted these idealist writers with 'realists' in the tradition of E. H. Carr, whose \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\" (1939) both coined the term 'idealist' and was a fierce and effective assault on the inter-war idealists.\nIdealism is centered on the notion that states are rational actors capable of ensuring lasting peace and security rather than resorting to war.\n\nIdealism is also marked by the prominent role played by international law and international organizations in its conception of policy formation. One of the most well-known tenets of modern idealist thinking is democratic peace theory, which holds that states with similar modes of democratic governance do not fight one another. Wilson's idealistic thought was embodied in his Fourteen points speech, and in the creation of the League of Nations.\n\nIdealism transcends the left-right political spectrum. Idealists can include both human rights campaigners (traditionally, but not always, associated with the left) and American neoconservatism which is usually associated with the right.\n\nIdealism may find itself in opposition to Realism, a worldview which argues that a nation's national interest is more important than ethical or moral considerations; however, there need be no conflict between the two (see Neoconservatism for an example of a confluence of the two). Realist thinkers include Hans Morgenthau, Niccolò Machiavelli, Otto von Bismarck, George F. Kennan and others. Recent practitioners of Idealism in the United States have included Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush.\n\nLink finds that Wilson from his earliest days had imbibed the beliefs of his denomination - in the omnipotence of God, the morality of the Universe, a system of rewards and punishments and the notion that nations, as well as man, transgressed the laws of God at their peril. Blum (1956) argues that he learned from William Ewart Gladstone a mystic conviction in the superiority of Anglo-Saxons, in their righteous duty to make the world over in their image. Moral principle, constitutionalism, and faith in God were among the prerequisites for alleviating human strife. While he interpreted international law within such a brittle, moral cast, Wilson remained remarkably insensitive to new and changing social forces and conditions of the 20th century. He expected too much justice in a morally brutal world which disregarded the self-righteous resolutions of parliaments and statesmen like himself. Wilson's triumph was as a teacher of international morality to generations yet unborn. Daniel Patrick Moynihan sees Wilson's vision of world order anticipated humanity prevailing through the \"Holy Ghost of Reason,\" a vision which rested on religious faith.\n\nWilson's diplomatic policies had a profound influence on shaping the world. Diplomatic historian Walter Russell Mead has explained:\n\nWilson's views were based on the future welfare of humankind. He called for a world made safe democracy, this was organized around political, economic and social standards. These principles were stated in his 14- point peace program. Wilson thought of this program as an American commitment to show man kind the way of liberty. The core of Wilson's program was a league of nations committed to peace, and bringing down tyranny which was thought to be the root of war. The idea was that if democracy could be widespread peace and prosperity would prevail.\n\nAmerican foreign relations since 1914 have rested on Wilsonian idealism, says historian David Kennedy, even if adjusted somewhat by the \"realism\" represented by Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Henry Kissinger. Kennedy argues that every president since Wilson has \"embraced the core precepts of Wilsonianism. Nixon himself hung Wilson's portrait in the White House Cabinet Room. Wilson's ideas continue to dominate American foreign policy in the twenty-first century. In the aftermath of 9/11 they have, if anything, taken on even greater vitality.\"\n\nIdealism proper was a relatively short-lived school of thought, and suffered a crisis of confidence following the failure of the League of Nations and the outbreak of World War II. However, subsequent theories of international relations would draw elements from Wilsonian Idealism when constructing their world views.\n\nLiberalism manifested a tempered version of Wilson's idealism in the wake of World War II. Cognizant of the failures of Idealism to prevent renewed isolationism following World War II, and its inability to manage the balance of power in Europe to prevent the outbreak of a new war, liberal thinkers devised a set of international institutions based on rule of law and regularized interaction. These international organizations, such as the United Nations and the NATO, or even international regimes such as the Bretton Woods system, and General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), were calculated both to maintain a balance of power as well as regularize cooperation between nations.\n\nNeoconservatism drew from Liberalism its intense focus on the promotion of \"universal values\", in this case democracy, human rights, free trade, women's rights and minority protections. However, it differs in that it is less wedded to the importance of preserving international institutions and treaties while pursuing assertive or aggressive stances which it deems morally worthy, and is willing to use force or the threat of force, unilaterally if necessary, to push for its goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26365840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26365840", "title": "Index of philosophy of law articles", "text": "Index of philosophy of law articles\n\nThis is an index of articles in jurisprudence.\n\n"}
{"id": "55752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55752", "title": "Indian Reorganization Act", "text": "Indian Reorganization Act\n\nThe Indian Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934, or the Wheeler-Howard Act, was U.S. federal legislation that dealt with the status of Native Americans in the United States. It was the centerpiece of what has been often called the \"Indian New Deal\". The major goal was to reverse the traditional goal of assimilation of Indians into American society and to strengthen, encourage and perpetuate the tribes and their historic traditions and culture.\n\nThe Act also restored to Indians the management of their assets—land and mineral rights—and included provisions intended to create a sound economic foundation for the inhabitants of Indian reservations. The law did not apply to Hawaii; Alaska and Oklahoma were added under another law in 1936. (American Indian tribes in Oklahoma had their land allotted and land title extinguished, so did not have any reservations left.) The census counted 332,000 Indians in 1930 and 334,000 in 1940, including those on and off reservations in the 48 states. Total spending on Indians averaged $38 million a year in the late 1920s, dropping to an all time low of $23 million in 1933, and reaching $38 million in 1940.\n\nThe IRA was the most significant initiative of John Collier, who was President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Commissioner of the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) from 1933 to 1945. He had long studied Indian issues and worked for change since the 1920s, particularly with the American Indian Defense Association. He intended to reverse the assimilationist policies that had resulted in considerable damage to Native American cultures, and to provide a means for American Indians to re-establish sovereignty and self-government, to reduce the losses of reservation lands, and to build economic self-sufficiency. He believed that Indian traditional culture was superior to that of modern America, and thought it worthy of emulation. His proposals were considered highly controversial, as numerous powerful interests had profited from the sale and management of Native lands. Congress revised Collier's proposals and preserved oversight of tribes and reservations by the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of Interior.\n\nThe self-government provisions would automatically go into effect for a tribe unless a clear majority of the eligible Indians voted it down. When approved, a tribe would adopt a variation of the model constitution drafted by BIA lawyers.\n\nAt the time the Act passed, it was United States policy to eliminate Indian reservations, dividing the communal territory and allotting 160-acre plots to individual heads of households, to be owned in severalty. Before allotment, reservation territory was not owned in the usual European-American sense, but was reserved for the benefit of entire Indian tribes. The communal benefits were apportioned to tribe members according to tribal law and custom. Generally, Indians held the land in a communal fashion. Non-Indians were not allowed to own land on reservations, a fact which limited the value of the land to the Indians. (It reduced the market for it).\n\nThe process of allotment started with the General Allotment Act of 1887. By 1934, two thirds of Indian land had converted to traditional private ownership (i.e. it was owned in fee simple). Most of that had been sold by Indian allottees, often because they had no means to pay local taxes on the lands, for which they were newly responsible. The IRA provided a mechanism for the recovery of land that had been sold—including land that had been sold to tribal Indians. They would lose individual property under the law.\n\nJohn Collier was appointed Commissioner of the Indian Bureau (it is now called the Bureau of Indian Affairs, BIA) in April 1933 by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. He had the full support of his boss, Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes, who was also an expert on Indian issues.\n\nThe federal government held land in trust for many tribes. Numerous claims cases had been presented to Congress because of failures in the government's management of such lands. There were particular grievances and claims due to the government's failure to provide for sustainable forestry. The Indian Claims Act included a requirement that the Interior Department manage Indian forest resources \"on the principle of sustained-yield management.\" Representative Edgar Howard of Nebraska, co-sponsor of the Act and Chairman of the House Committee on Indian Affairs, explained that the purpose of the provision was \"to assure a proper and permanent management of the Indian Forest\" under modern sustained-yield methods so as to \"assure that the Indian forests will be permanently productive and will yield continuous revenues to the tribes.\"\n\nThe act slowed the practice of allotting communal tribal lands to individual tribal members. It did not restore to Indians land that had already been patented to individuals, but much land at the time was still unallotted or was allotted to an individual but still held in trust for that individual by the U.S. government. Because the Act did not disturb existing private ownership of Indian reservation lands, it left reservations as a checkerboard of tribal or individual trust and fee land, which remains the case today. .\n\nHowever, the Act also allowed the U.S. to purchase some of the fee land and restore it to tribal trust status. Due to the Act and other actions of federal courts and the government, more than two million acres (8,000 km²) of land were returned to various tribes in the first 20 years after passage.\n\nIn 1954, the United States Department of the Interior (DOI) began implementing the termination and relocation phases of the Act, which had been added by Congress. These provisions were the result of the continuing interest by some members of Congress in having American Indians assimilate to the majority society. Among other effects, termination resulted in the legal dismantling of 61 tribal nations within the United States and ending their recognized relationships with the federal government. This also ended the eligibility of the tribal nations and their members for various government programs to assist American Indians. Of the \"Dismantled Tribes\" 46 regained their legal status as indigenous communities.\n\nSince the late 20th century and the rise of Indian activism over sovereignty issues, as well as many tribes' establishment of casino gambling on reservations as a revenue source, the US Supreme Court has been repeatedly asked to address the IRA's constitutionality. The provision of the Act that is controversial is the one that allows the US government to acquire non-Indian land (by voluntary transfer) and convert it to Indian land (\"take it into trust\"). In so doing, the US government partially removes the land from the jurisdiction of the state, which makes certain activities, such as casino gambling, possible on the land for the first time. It also makes the land exempt from state property taxes and some other state taxes. Consequently, many people oppose implementation of this part of the Act and, typically represented by state or local governments, they sue to prevent it.\n\nIn 1995, South Dakota challenged the authority of the Interior Secretary, under the IRA, to take of land into trust on behalf of the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe (based on the Lower Brule Indian Reservation), in \"South Dakota v. United States Dep't of the Interior\", 69 F.3d 878, 881-85 (8th Cir. 1995). The Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals found Section 5 of the IRA to be unconstitutional, ruling that it violated the non-delegation doctrine and that the Secretary of Interior did not have the authority to take the land into trust.\n\nThe US Department of the Interior (DOI) sought U.S. Supreme Court review. But, as DOI was implementing new regulations related to land trusts, the agency asked the Court to remand the case to the lower court, to be reconsidered with the decision to be based on the new regulations. The US Supreme Court granted Interior's petition, vacated the lower court's ruling, and remanded the case back to the lower court.\n\nJustices Scalia, O'Connor and Thomas dissented, stating that \"[t]he decision today—to grant, vacate, and remand in light of the Government's changed position—is both unprecedented and inexplicable.\" They went on, \"[W]hat makes today's action inexplicable as well as unprecedented is the fact that the Government's change of legal position does not even purport to be applicable to the present case.\" Seven months after the Supreme Court's decision to grant, vacate, and remand, the DOI removed the land in question from trust.\n\nIn 1997, the Lower Brulé Sioux submitted an amended trust application to DOI, requesting that the United States take the of land into trust on the Tribe's behalf. South Dakota challenged this in 2004 in district court, which upheld DOI's authority to take the land in trust. The state appealed to the Eighth Circuit, but when the court reexamined the constitutionality issue, it upheld the constitutionality of Section 5 in agreement with the lower court. The US Supreme Court denied the State's petition for \"certiorari\". Since then, district and circuit courts have rejected non-delegation claims by states. The Supreme Court refused to hear the issue in 2008.\n\nIn 2008 (before the US Supreme Court heard the \"Carcieri\" case below), in \"MichGO v Kempthorne\", Judge Janice Rogers Brown of the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals wrote a dissent stating that she would have struck down key provisions of the IRA. Of the three circuit courts to address the IRA's constitutionality, Judge Brown is the only judge to dissent on the IRA's constitutionality. The majority opinion upheld its constitutionality. The U.S. Supreme Court did not accept the \"MichGO\" case for review, thus keeping the previous precedent in place. The First, Eighth and Tenth Circuits of the U.S. Court of Appeals have upheld the constitutionality of the IRA.\n\nIn 2008, \"Carcieri v Kempthorne\" was argued before the U.S. Supreme Court; the Court ruled on it in 2009, with the decision called \"Carcieri v. Salazar\". In 1991, the Narragansett Indian tribe bought of land. They requested that the DOI take it into trust, which the agency did in 1998, thus exempting it from many state laws. The State was concerned that the tribe would open a casino or tax-free business on the land and sued to block the transfer. The state argued that the IRA did not apply because the Narragansett was not \"now under federal jurisdiction\" as of 1934, as distinguished from \"federally recognized.\" In fact, the Narragansett had been placed under Rhode Island guardianship since 1709. In 1880, the tribe was illegally pressured into relinquishing its tribal authority to Rhode Island. The tribe did not receive federal recognition until 1983, after the 1934 passage of the IRA. The US Supreme Court agreed with the State.\n\nIn a challenge to the U.S. DOI's decision to take land into trust for the Oneida Indian Nation in present-day New York, Upstate Citizens for Equality (UCE), New York, Oneida County, Madison County, the town of Verona, the town of Vernon, and others argue that the IRA is unconstitutional. Judge Kahn dismissed UCE's complaint, including the failed theory that the IRA is unconstitutional, on the basis of longstanding and settled law on this issue. The US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissal.\n\nSection 18 of the IRA required that members of the affected Indian nation or tribe vote on whether to accept it within one year of the effective date of the act (25 U.S.C. 478), and had to approve it by a majority. There was confusion about who should be allowed to vote on creating new governments, as many non-Indians lived on reservations many Indians owned no land there, and also over the effect of abstentions.\nUnder the voting rules, abstentions were counted as yes votes, but in Oglala Lakota culture, for example, abstention had traditionally equaled a no vote. The resulting confusion caused disputes on many reservations about the results.\nWhen the final results were in, 172 tribes had accepted the act, and 73 had rejected it. The largest tribe, the Navajo, had been badly hurt by the federal Navajo Livestock Reduction Program, which took away half their livestock and jailed dissenters. They strongly opposed the act, John Collier the chief promoter, and the entire Indian New Deal. Historian Brian Dippie notes that the Indian Rights Association denounced Collier as a 'dictator' and accused him of a \"near reign of terror\" on the Navajo reservation. Dippie adds that, \"He became an object of 'burning hatred' among the very people whose problems so preoccupied him.\"\n\nHistorians have mixed reactions to the Indian New Deal. Many praise Collier's energy and his initiative. Philp praised Collier's Indian New Deal for protecting Indian freedom to engage in traditional religious practices, obtaining additional relief money for reservations, providing a structure for self-government, and enlisting the help of anthropologists who respected traditional cultures. However, he concludes that the Indian New Deal was unable to stimulate economic progress nor did it provide a usable structure for Indian politics. Philp argues these failures gave ammunition to the return to the previous policy of termination that took place after Collier resigned in 1945. In surveying the scholarly literature, Schwartz concludes that there is:\n\nCollier's reputation among the Indians was mixed—praised by some, vilified by others. He antagonized the Navajo, the largest tribe, as well as the Seneca people, Iroquois, and many others. Anthropologists criticized him for not recognizing the diversity of Native American lifestyles. Hauptman argues that his emphasis on Northern Pueblo arts and crafts and the uniformity of his approach to all tribes are partly explained by his belief that his tenure as Commissioner would be short, meaning that packaging large, lengthy legislative reforms seemed politically necessary.\n\nThe Reorganization Act was wide-ranging legislation authorizing tribal self-rule under federal supervision, putting an end to land allotment and generally promoting measures to enhance tribes and encouraging education.\n\nHaving described the American society as \"physically, religiously, socially, and aesthetically shattered, dismembered, directionless\", Collier was later criticized for his romantic views about the moral superiority of traditional society as opposed to modernity. Philp says after his experience at the Taos Pueblo, Collier \"made a lifelong commitment to preserve tribal community life because it offered a cultural alternative to modernity...His romantic stereotyping of Indians often did not fit the reality of contemporary tribal life.\"\n\nThe act has helped conserve the communal tribal land bases. Collier supporters blame Congress for altering the legislation proposed by Collier, so that it has not been as successful as possible. On many reservations, its provisions exacerbated longstanding differences between traditionals and those who had adopted more European-American ways. Many Native Americans believe their traditional systems of government were better for their culture.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23913383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23913383", "title": "Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad Co. v. American Cyanamid Co.", "text": "Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad Co. v. American Cyanamid Co.\n\nIndiana Harbor Belt Railroad Co. v. American Cyanamid Co., 916 F.2d 1174 (7th Cir. 1990) is a decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit authored by Judge Richard Posner. The case has subsequently become a staple of first year Torts courses taught in American law schools, where the case is used to address the question of when it is better to use negligence liability or strict liability.\n\nAmerican Cyanamid was a manufacturer that produced chemicals, including acrylonitrile, which is used in making acrylic fibers, plastics, dyes, pharmaceutical chemicals, and other products. In January 1979, American Cyanamid wanted to ship acrylonitrile from its plant in Louisiana to its plant in New Jersey. It therefore leased a tank car from the North American Car Corporation, filled it with 20,000 gallons of liquid acrylonitrile, and the Missouri Pacific Railroad then picked up the car from the Louisiana plant. Missouri Pacific Railroad delivered the car to the Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad, a switching railroad, who were to switch the car to Conrail for final delivery to the New Jersey plant.\n\nHowever, several hours after the car arrived at the Blue Island Rail Yard in Riverdale, Illinois (on Riverdale's border with Blue Island, Illinois), Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad employees noticed that acrylonitrile was gushing out of the car because the lid on the outlet was broken. Concerned because acrylonitrile is flammable, highly toxic, and possibly a carcinogen, local officials ordered an evacuation until the leak could be stopped and the car moved to a remote part of the rail yard.\n\nWorried that the leak may have resulted in soil contamination and water contamination, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency subsequently ordered Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad to clean up the site. Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad ultimately spent approximately $980,000 on cleaning up the rail yard.\n\nIndiana Harbor Belt Railroad brought suit against American Cyanamid seeking to recover the cleanup costs from American Cyanamid. The suit set forth two legal theories: (1) that American Cyanamid had negligently maintained the leased car; and (2) that, since American Cyanamid was involved in an abnormally dangerous activity, it was strictly liable for the consequences of a spill or other accident to the shipment en route.\n\nAmerican Cyanamid moved to dismiss Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad's strict liability claim against it, but the district judge denied this motion. Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad therefore moved for summary judgment and won. The district judge then dismissed Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad's negligence claim so that American Cyanamid could appeal the strict liability decision to the Seventh Circuit.\n\nCircuit Judge Posner begins by stating that this case presents a case of first impression so there is no precedent directly governing the disposition of the case, and leaving the court to decide the case on the basic principles underlying Illinois tort law. To address the question of whether strict liability is appropriate in this case, Posner turns to several foundational 19th century cases, including \"Rylands v. Fletcher\" (1868) and \"Guille v. Swan\" (1822), and then consults the Restatement (Second) of Torts. Section 520 of the Restatement sets out six factors for determining when strict liability is appropriate: \"Guille is a paradigmatic case for strict liability. (a) The risk (probability) of harm was great, and (b) the harm that would ensue if the risk materialized could be .. great ... The confluence of these two factors established the urgency of seeking to prevent such accidents. (c) Yet such accidents could not be prevented by the exercise of due care ... (d) The activity [is] not a matter of common usage ... (e) The activity [is] inappropriate to the place in which it took place ... [and], (f) Reinforcing(d), [is] the value to the community of the activity great enough to offset its unavoidable risks[?]\"\nPosner explains the relationship between negligence and strict liability as follows: The baseline common law regime of tort liability is negligence. When it is a workable regime, because the hazards of an activity can be avoided by being careful (which is to say, nonnegligent), there is no need to switch to strict liability. Sometimes, however, a particular type of accident cannot be prevented by taking care but can be avoided, or its consequences minimized, by shifting the activity in which the accident occurs to another locale, where the risk or harm of an accident will be less..., or by reducing the scale of the activity in order to minimize the number of accidents caused by it... By making the actor strictly liable—by denying him in other words an excuse based on his inability to avoid accidents by being more careful—we give him an incentive, missing in a negligence regime, to experiment with methods of preventing accidents that involve not greater exertions of care, assumed to be futile, but instead relocating, changing, or reducing (perhaps to the vanishing point) the activity giving rise to the accident... The greater the risk of an accident...and the costs of an accident if one occurs..., the more we want the actor to consider the possibility of making accident-reducing activity changes; the stronger, therefore, is the case for strict liability.\n\nTurning from these general principles to the case, Posner states that \"we have been given no reason...for believing that a negligence regime is not perfectly adequate to remedy and deter, at reasonable cost, the accidental spillage of acrylonitrile from rail cars.\" Instead, the court says that under the facts of this case, the chemical spill was caused by the negligence of either (a) the North American Car Corporation in failing to maintain or inspect the rail car properly; (b) American Cyanamid in failing to maintain or inspect the car; or (c) the Missouri Pacific Railroad when it had custody of the rail car. Under a negligence regime, the role of the courts is to consider the evidence and reach a determination as to which party's negligence caused the spill, and the negligent party would then have to pay the cleanup costs. Under a strict liability regime, American Cyanamid would have to pay the cleanup costs, even if it did not act negligently, and the court is not convinced that there are compelling reasons to force American Cyanamid to bear the cleanup costs if it was not negligent.\n\nThe court rejected a number of arguments made by Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad as to why strict liability should be applied in this case. Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad argued that the potentially calamitous nature of a chemical spill meant that strict liability should be imposed on shippers shipping hazardous chemicals. The court, however, found that \"if a tank car is carefully maintained the danger of a spill of acrylonitrile is negligible. If this is right there is no compelling reason to move to a regime of strict liability.\"\n\nIndiana Harbor Belt Railroad also argued that a strict liability regime would encourage manufacturers not to ship hazardous materials through densely populated cities and instead choose alternate routes. The court rejected this argument on the grounds that given the US railway system's hub and spoke design, it was difficult for shippers to avoid shipping their goods through densely populated neighborhoods, because the hubs of this system are all located in large cities. The court said that Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad had failed to demonstrate that the shipment of acrylonitrile by rail through populated areas is so hazardous an activity that even when shippers exercise due care, the law should nevertheless create incentives to relocate the activity to nonpopulated areas or to reduce the scale of the activity.\n\nIndiana Harbor Belt Railroad also pointed to concerns of distributional fairness, arguing that American Cyanamid was a huge firm better able to bear the costs of an environmental cleanup, while Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad was a struggling regional railroad that nearly went bankrupt after it was ordered to pay the cleanup costs in this case. The court was unconvinced by this argument, and noted that Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad was a jointly owned subsidiary of Conrail and the Soo Line Railroad, corporations with pockets just as deep as American Cyanamid's. The court concluded that concerns about distributional fairness did not therefore require imposing strict liability on shippers. Implicit in much of Posner's reasoning is the idea that, because each of the potential defendants are interlinked in a commercial chain, liability imposed on any one defendant would simply lead to higher prices passed on to the others. This makes an exact determination of where liability lies unnecessary.\n\nThe court therefore held that a shipper of a hazardous chemical by rail is not strictly liable for the consequences of a spill or other accident to the shipment en route. A shipper may, however, be held liable if a plaintiff can prove that the shipper acted negligently.\n\n"}
{"id": "5423433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5423433", "title": "IsoHunt", "text": "IsoHunt\n\nisoHunt is an online torrent files index and repository, where visitors can browse, search, download or upload torrents of various digital content of mostly entertainment nature. The current incarnation arose as a resurrection of the original site that was taken down by legal action from the MPAA; it is not associated in any way with the old staff or owners of the site, and is to be understood as a separate continuation.\n\nIt originated in 2003 as isohunt.com website for IRC files search and reached over 13.7 million torrents in its database and 20 million peers from indexed torrents. With 7.4 million unique visitors , isoHunt was one of the most popular BitTorrent search engines. Thousands of torrents were added to and deleted from it every day. Users of isoHunt performed over 40 million unique searches per month. On October 19, 2008, isoHunt passed the 1 petabyte mark for torrents indexed globally. The site was the third most popular BitTorrent site . According to isoHunt, the total amount of shared content was more than 14.11 petabytes .\n\nThe site came to an end when the legal battles that isoHunt's founder had been in for years with conglomerates of IP rights holders over allegations of copyright infringing came to a head. A settlement with the MPAA was reached in 2013, stipulating a $110 million reimbursement for damages and the site's closure that followed on October 21, 2013.\n\nBy the end of October 2013 however, two sites with content presumably mirrored from isohunt.com were reported in media. One of them— isohunt.to became a de facto replacement of the original site.\n\nisoHunt was founded in January 2003 by Gary Fung, a Canadian national. Its name is derived from the term ISO image, used to describe a 1:1 soft copy of a disk (typically a CD or DVD).\n\nOn February 23, 2006, the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) issued a press release stating they were suing isoHunt for copyright infringement.\n\nOn September 2, 2009, isoHunt announced the launch of a spinoff site, hexagon.cc. The goal of hexagon.cc was to have a place for social groups based on certain niches to share specific content relevant to their interests. It is down until further notice.\n\nIn early 2010, users in the US and along south eastern Canada were redirected to a stripped-down version called isoHunt Lite in order to remove some of the factors that were used in determining liability for infringement; however, full access was restored in early 2012.\n\nIn October 2013 Isohunt announced it would shut down indefinitely. After years of court battles over copyright infringement with the MPAA, Isohunt agreed to a settlement. Under the terms of the settlement Isohunt will shut down the site, and close three other sites that redirect to the Isohunt domain: Podtropolis, TorrentBox, and Edtk-it.com. Fung also agreed to pay $110 million in damages.\n\nThe site was shut down on October 21, 2013, two days earlier than originally planned, leaving a farewell message from Gary Fung that also explained that the rush was to prevent backup activity — possibly the one reported to have been started by ArchiveTeam.\n\nSelected items of email correspondence between Gary Fung and the MPAA have been posted on isoHunt.com.\n\nIn February 2006 it was announced that the MPAA had launched legal proceedings against isoHunt, TorrentBox, TorrentSpy, ed2k-it, and several other BitTorrent indexing or tracker sites, alleging that these sites facilitate copyright infringement. On February 28, 2006 a lawsuit was filed against Gary Fung in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Fung stands to oppose the MPAA on legal grounds. On August 18, 2006, Judge Stanton granted a motion for case transfer from New York to California on the grounds of inconvenienced parties and similar cases already filed in the District Court of Central California.\n\nOn December 21, 2009, the court granted the MPAA's motion for summary judgment, finding isoHunt and Fung liable for copyright infringement on the theory of inducement. The MPAA had presented evidence showing that the majority of content linked to on IsoHunt was infringing content, that the search engine was tuned to assist users in finding infringing works, and that Fung himself had made remarks suggesting the purpose of the site was to allow users to download infringing content. The court found that IsoHunt had not presented any satisfactory evidence to counter these claims, and at its core it was merely an \"evolutionary modification\" of Napster and Grokster, two P2P systems that had previously been held liable for inducing copyright infringement.\n\nAs a result, the court went on to issue a permanent injunction prohibiting IsoHunt to continue indexing and linking to infringing content. The case on appeal, dubbed \"Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. v. Fung\", upheld the district court's findings on copyright infringement, but found that the injunction was overly burdensome to the extent it could prevent Fung from seeking legitimate employment, as certain provisions in the injunction would have prevented Fung from working in any technology company whose services could be used to infringe copyrighted content even if those companies were not engaged in copyright infringement.\n\nIsoHunt has a history of complying with DMCA takedown notices, and has worked with various copyright owners in the past, such as the RIAA and Microsoft. The site uses an ex-gratia takedown process modelled on the DMCA, even though the servers were relocated to Canada in January 2007 where the DMCA does not apply.\n\nOn September 8, 2008 Gary Fung announced on the isoHunt front page that he had made a preemptive move against an impending lawsuit from the CRIA by filing a petition to the Supreme Court of British Columbia. Fung argues that isoHunt is merely a search engine to find torrents that are scattered around the web, much the same as Google or any other search engine can be used in the same way.\n\nOn January 16, 2007, isoHunt was taken off-line, stating \"Lawyers from our primary ISP decided to pull our plug without any advance notice\". After a major hardware upgrade, the site resumed normal operation by January 22, 2007, although experiencing several brief periods of subsequent downtime due to server changes.\n\nOn July/August 2013, Federation of the Italian Music Industry obtained an order from the Court of Milan which demands ISPs to block isoHunt's domain and IP address.\n\nOn October 17, 2013 Variety.com announced the website isoHunt would shut down by Oct. 23, 2013, as part of a settlement in a massive copyright infringement suit filed by Hollywood studios, agreeing to pay $110 million for claims that the site induced the violation of copyrighted movies and TV shows although isoHunt never hosted such content. The settlement terms included a $110 million judgment against isoHunt and its owner, Gary Fung, ending a seven-year legal battle over its operations. According to court documents cited by the BBC, Fung's company will likely be able to pay only between two and four million dollars though.\nThe site shut down on 21 October 2013, 2 days earlier than the announced date, leaving a note from Gary Fung and a link to a YouTube \"trailer for the movie Terminator Salvation\" that is actually a Rickroll.\nIn the beginning of 2007, isoHunt restructured its server setup and bought mostly new hardware for the cluster that operates the site. The cluster had a total of 34 AMD Opteron cores, 70 GB in RAM and 30 hard drives ranging from SATAs to 15,000 rpm SCSIs.\n\nThe network started with a D-Link switch but due to multiple failures, isoHunt moved to a Force10 switch. IsoHunt was uplinked through Neutral Data Centers Corp to a mix of bandwidth providers.\n\nOn October 30, 2013, two weeks following the shutdown of the original website, a group of people claiming to be dedicated to isoHunt's continuance brought a near-identical clone of the original website online, accessible via isohunt.to. Former staff member of original isoHunt has made it clear that the team behind isohunt.com has not been involved in any way in 'resurrection' of isoHunt.\n\nAnother site, isohunt.ee, has also been reported to be an unauthorized clone of the original site.\n\nArchiveTeam have stated that they are not affiliated with any mirrors of isoHunt. Parts of the site they managed to preserve were uploaded to Internet Archive.\n\nOn December 13, 2014, just 4 days after a raid by Swedish police took ThePirateBay.se offline, the isoHunt.to team launched a new website, \"OldPirateBay.org\", mirroring the contents of a recent snapshot of The Pirate Bay. It is branded in isoHunt's style, featuring both a ghostly blue theme and the isoHunt logo. The team stated that they would gladly take their copy of the site down if and when the original Pirate Bay came back online, which occurred on January 31, 2015.\n\nOn December 19, 2014, isoHunt.to released a tool called The Open Bay at Openbay.isohunt.to, providing original source code and additional tools in order to allow users to deploy their own version of The Pirate Bay website.\n\n"}
{"id": "22319702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22319702", "title": "John Witte Jr.", "text": "John Witte Jr.\n\nJohn Witte, Jr. is an American academic. He is Robert W. Woodruff Professor of law and a McDonald Distinguished Professor at Emory University School of Law in Atlanta, Georgia, and is director of the Center for the Study of Law and Religion there. \n\nHe is series editor of the Emory University Studies in Law and Religion by Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing, and general editor of the Law and Christianity Series published by Cambridge University Press.\n\nWitte received a BA from Calvin College in 1982, and a JD from Harvard Law School in 1985. \n\nAs author:\n\nAs editor:\n\nAs co-editor:\n"}
{"id": "19544925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19544925", "title": "Law of Jersey", "text": "Law of Jersey\n\nThe Law of Jersey has been influenced by several different legal traditions, in particular Norman customary law, English common law and modern French civil law. The Bailiwick of Jersey is a separate jurisdiction from that of the United Kingdom, and is also distinct from that of the other Channel Islands such as Guernsey, although they do share some historical developments. Jersey's legal system is 'mixed' or 'pluralistic', and sources of law are in French and English languages, although since the 1950s the main working language of the legal system is English.\n\nJersey's legislature, the States Assembly makes legislation affecting most areas of activity.\n\nThe highest form of legislation made by the States is 'Laws'. If a proposed Law is likely to be controversial, the general desirability of having new legislation on the topic may be debated before the Law drafted. The procedure for making Laws is set out in the Standing Orders of the States of Jersey. Once the Law is in draft from, it starts the legislative process as a \"projet de loi\", which may be introduced to the States by a Minister, any States Member, a scrutiny panel or the Comité des Connétables. At the stage known as 'first reading', the title of the projet is read out and the projet is 'lodged au Greffe' providing a two to six week breathing space for Members to read the draft Law. Under Article 16 of the Human Rights (Jersey) Law 2000, the Minister or other person lodging the projet au Greffe must make a written statement that the provisions of the projet are compatible with Convention rights or 'make a statement that although [he or she] is unable to make a statement of compatibility, [he or she] nevertheless wants the States to proceed with the projet'. At the next 'second reading' stage, there is a formal debate in the States chamber during which members consider the principle of the projet and then scrutinise the draft in detail. At 'third reading' stage there is an opportunity for minor drafting errors to be corrected. Finally, members vote to adopt the law.\n\nThe Law is then submitted via the Lieutenant Governor's office for transmission to London, where officials in the Ministry of Justice examine the Law. In 2010, the House of Commons Justice Committee was highly critical of the UK Government's approach, finding that 'The Islands are more than adequately advised by their own Law Officers and Parliamentary Counsel. It seems a strange use of Ministry of Justice resources ... to engage in a kind of legislative oversight which does not restrict itself to the constitutional grounds for scrutiny'. This process may take several months. In an unusual move in 2011, campaigners against a Law that sought to reduce the number of Senators in the States petitioned the Privy Council to advise the Queen to refuse Royal Assent. Once official scrutiny is complete in London, the Law is formally presented to Her Majesty for Royal Assent at a meeting of the Privy Council, usually held at Buckingham Palace or Windsor Castle.\n\nAfter a Law receives Royal Assent, the final step is for it be registered with the Royal Court of Jersey. At this point it is 'passed'. The Law is then brought into force at a date decided by the relevant Jersey minister. There may be a considerable delay between a Law being passed and it becoming legally effective if, for example, civil servants need to be trained, computer systems put in place or money found to pay for the new scheme.\n\nLaws adopted and passed are published in print as \"Recueil de Lois\" de Jersey and online by the Jersey Legal Information Board on the Jersey Law website.\n\nIn Jersey, there are other types of legislation in addition to Laws.\n\nCustom is a source of law in the Jersey legal system. It has been described as \"the product of generally accepted usage and practice. It has no formal sanction or authority behind it other than the general consensus of opinion within the community\". It differs from English common law where rules stated by a judge of a senior court are binding law \"because\" they are stated by a judge. In customary law, the role of the judiciary is to look for evidence of what is \"generally accepted usage and practice\".\n\nMany rules of customary law have crystallised to such an extent (through repeated acknowledgment by the Royal Court and in the way people conduct their affairs) that everyone accepts them as binding without discussion. The boundaries of the Parishes, the existence of the office of Bailiff and various rules relating to possession of land and inheritance fall into this category. Many rules of customary law are to be found discussed in the texts of the \"Commentators\" and the case law of the Jersey courts. Where the works of the commentators do not deal with situation, the Jersey courts look at factual evidence to work out is the \"generally accepted usage and practice\".\n\nThe customary law of the Duchy of Normandy is particularly influential as a source of law in Jersey, even though Jersey ceased to part of Normandy in 1204. Norman law developed in two main epochs–the \"Ancienne coutume\" (1199–1538) and the \"Coutume reformée\" (1538–1804).\n\nThe northern and western regions of Medieval Europe \"were a patchwork of territorial areas in which the main source of law was customs, usages and practices which had become relatively fixed and settled\". Norman law was based on oral tradition and repeated practices in Feudal society. The earliest known written account of the Ancienne coutume of Normandy is the \"Très-ancienne coutume\", first set down in Latin manuscript around 1199 to 1223. It was translated into French, probably in about 1230. It is thought to be the work of scholars or court officials, designed to be a manual for legal practitioners. A modern edition was compiled from various sources in 1903 by Professor E.J. Tardiff.\n\nWhen in 1309 Edward II of England sent Justices to Jersey, the people of Jersey were \"asked by what law they claimed to be governed, the law of England, of Normandy, or by some special customs of their own? They answered 'By the law of Normandy, and referred the Justices to the \"Summa of Malcael\" [the Jersey name for the Grand Coutumier], where the Norman laws are well embodied'... But they added, and this a clause that caused much trouble later, 'except that we have certain customs used in this island from time immemorial\".\n\nIn the 16th century, two commentaries on the Grand Coutumier, written in Normandy, have been influential in Jersey law. (also known as Le Rouillé) was the author of \"Le Grant Coustumier du pays & duché de Normendie : tres utile & profitable a tous practiciens\" (1534; 1539). He also produced commentary on the neighbouring province of Maine (pictured).\n\nGuillaume Terrien's \"Commentaires du droit civil, tant public que privé, observé au pays et Duché de Normandie\" was first published in 1574. Dawes explains: \"Terrien’s own work comprised the selecting of texts from the \"Grand Coutumier\", putting them into an order which suited his scheme (even to the point of cutting and pasting quite disparate texts) and then commenting on the resulting amalgam. To this commentary a further author added notes headed 'Additio', more often than not in Latin\".\n\nTwo modern versions of the text of the Grand Coutumier have been produced. The first was by Jurat William Laurence de Gruchy entitled \"L’Ancienne Coutume de Normandie: Réimpression, éditée avec de légères annotations\" (1881), based on Le Rouillé’s 1539 edition, using a double-column format setting out the Latin and French texts side by side. In 2009, an English translation of the Latin text by J.A. Everard was published.\n\nThe second period in the development of Norman custom was between 1583 and 1804 and is known as the \"Coutume reformée\" (the reformed custom). In 1453, Charles VII of France issued orders that all the customary laws of France should be \"redacted\", in other words set out systematically and approved under royal authority. The Duchy of Normandy was the last part of France to comply with this order but the new text was eventually prepared and received royal approval in 1585 by Henry III of France.\n\nThere are two reasons why the Coutume reformée might be thought to have little relevance to Jersey: it was created 380 years after Jersey had ceased formally to be part of the Duchy of Normandy and it was a text sanctioned by the king of France. Nonetheless, Jersey lawyers and courts made frequent references to the Coutume reformée and by virtue of its assimilation into Jersey law over the centuries it is regarded as a source of the island's law.\n\nCommentators on the Coutume reformée include:\n\nWithin France, customary law was abolished in 1804 with the introduction of uniform codes of civil and criminal law across the whole of France.\n\nAs well as relying on commentaries produced in France, Jersey has an indigenous legal literature on custom. In the 17th century, Jean Poingdestre (1609–1691) and Philippe Le Geyt (1635–1716) wrote several works. Some chapters of C.S. Le Gros' 20th century work, \"Traité du Droit Coutumier d l'Ile de Jersey\" also remain relevant.\n\nMany rules of customary law have been amended or abolished by legislation in the later 19th and 20th centuries. Examples of this include:\n\nSome fields of Jersey, such as negligence and administrative law, are heavily influenced by English common law. In other branches of law, notably contract, Jersey courts may have regard to French civil law.\n\nThe Human Rights (Jersey) Law 2000, based closely on the United Kingdom's Human Rights Act 1998, requires Jersey courts so far as possible to interpret legislation so that it is compatible with rights and freedoms guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. Jersey public bodies are required to act in conformity with Convention rights.\n\nIn January 2012, Jersey introduced laws to recognise same-sex civil partnerships.\n\nDuring the 20th century, the main working language of the Jersey legal system changed from French to English. Before the 1930s, almost all legislation passed by the States Assembly was in French. Since then, French is used only where new legislation makes amendments to legislation originally drafted in French.\n\nThe conveyancing of immoveable property was carried out using contracts drafted in French until October 2006, after which contracts were required to be in English. Several French words and expressions used in Jersey differ from Standard French.\n\n The Jersey legal system does not follow the strict rules of binding precedent that exist in common law jurisdictions such as England and Wales. The Royal Court is not bound by its own previous decisions on a point of law but it will generally follow them unless persuaded that the earlier decision was wrongly decided. A similar approach is taken by the Court of Appeal. All Jersey courts are, however, bound by points of law decided by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in previous Jersey appeals to that court.\n\nDuring the 19th and 20th centuries a series of improvements to the system of writing and reporting judgments was put in place. In 1885, the Royal Court began to publish the \"Tables des Décisions de la Cour Royal de Jersey\"–a subject index to decided cases, prepared by the Greffier.\n\nIn 1950, Charles Thomas Le Quesne KC returned to Jersey from practice at the English Bar and was appointed Lieutenant Bailiff. Up to this point, the Royal Court's judgments were in the French style of \"jugements motivés\", written in French by the Greffier rather than the judge, and expressing the reasons for the court's decision only very briefly. Le Quesne changed the language of judgments to English and adopted the common law style of judgments, where the judge gives detailed reasons for accepting or rejecting the rival submissions made at trial by counsel. Between 1950 and 1984, the Royal Court published its and the Court of Appeal judgments in a series of law reports known as the \"Jersey Judgments\" (eleven volumes in total). From 1984, judgments have been published a new series of law reports known as the \"Jersey Law Reports\".\n\nIn 2004, the Jersey Legal Information Board (JLIB) was set up to promote \"accessibility of the written law and legal processes to the public and of an integrated and efficient legal system, through the use of information technology and by other means\". Judgments of the Royal Court and Court of Appeal are published online on www.jerseylaw.je, with open access to \"unreported\" judgments as part of the Free Access to Law Movement.\n\nThe head of the judiciary in Jersey is the Bailiff, who as well as performing the judicial functions of a chief justice is also the President (presiding officer) of the States of Jersey and has certain civic, ceremonial and executive functions. The Bailiff's functions may be exercised by the Deputy Bailiff.\n\nThe posts of Bailiff and Deputy Bailiff are Crown appointments, formally made by Her Majesty the Queen, on advice of the UK government's Secretary of State for Justice.\n\nAn appointment process has developed in recent years, without a legislative basis, for vacancies for the Deputy Bailiff, Attorney General for Jersey and Solicitor General for Jersey. This involves advertising for candidates and the preparation of a shortlist by a selection panel consisting of the Bailiff (in the chair), the senior Jurat and the chairman of the Jersey Appointments Commission. A process of consultation is then carried out, including the Jurats, the States Consultative Panel (which includes the Chief Minister), a number of elected members of the States, senior lawyers (the Bâtonnier, the President of the Law Society, the former President of the Law Society of Jersey and the President of the Chambre des Ecrivains), the other Crown Officers and the local Commissioner of the Royal Court. All candidates on the shortlist are then interviewed by the selection panel. A single name is then sent by the Lieutenant Governor to the Secretary of State for Justice.\n\nThis process has not been used for appointment to the office of Bailiff on the basis that \"The Secretary of State has accepted that the position of Deputy Bailiff is a training ground for the position of Bailiff, and that, therefore, all things being equal, you would expect to move up, assuming of course that you have performed to everyone's satisfaction\".\n\nJurats are elected by an electoral college consisting of the Bailiff, the Jurats, the Connétables, the elected members of the states, advocates and solicitors of the Royal Court. Voting is by secret ballot.\n\nCommissioners of the Royal Court are appointed by the Bailiff for the hearing of a specified cause or matter or a specified term.\n\nThe Bailiff appoints the Magistrate and the Assistant Magistrate (who hold full-time salaried posts) and part-time Relief Magistrates (legal practitioners who carry out duties on a daily fee-paid basis). It is now normal for the Bailiff to convene a panel to advise on salaried appointments.\n\nThe Bailiff, Deputy Bailiff and members of the Jersey Court of Appeal 'hold office during good behaviour'. Whereas senior judges in England and Wales who are appointed by Crown may only be removed from office with the consent of both Houses of Parliament, the United Kingdom Secretary of State for Justice may dismiss a Jersey judge appointed by the Crown without the agreement States of Jersey. This happened in 1992, when the then Deputy Bailiff Vernon Tomes was dismissed from office by the Home Secretary (the UK minister who at the time was responsible for the Crown Dependencies) on grounds of his delays in producing written judgments.\n\nJurats hold office up to the age of 72 years. A Jurat who 'in the opinion of the Court, is permanently unable, through physical or mental incapacity, or for any other reason, efficiently to carry out the duties of the office, may be called upon by the Court to resign'. A Jurat who refuses to resign may be removed from office by Order of Her Majesty in Council on the petition of the Superior Number (the Bailiff and five or more Jurats) of the Royal Court.\n\nThe Bailiff may if he 'thinks fit, terminate the appointment of a Commissioner on the ground of incapacity or misbehaviour'.\n\nThe Magistrates, who are also appointed by the Bailiff not the Crown, may not be removed from office 'except by virtue of an Order of Her Majesty in Council'. In June 2008, the Chief Minister informed the States of Jersey that the Magistrate-Designate, Ian Christmas, has 'agreed not to sit as a judge following a discussion with the former Bailiff as a result of a criminal investigation into an alleged fraud'. Mr Christmas was subsequently convicted of one count of fraud and sentenced to fifteen months in prison. It has been reported that the Bailiff's Office has asked the United Kingdom Ministry of Justice to arrange for a UK judge to undertake a disciplinary investigation.\n\nAll judges in Jersey are bound by a code of conduct promulgated by the Jersey Judicial Association in 2007. This requires judges to 'uphold the integrity and independence of the judiciary and perform their duties with competence, diligence and dedication'.\n\nAll courts in Jersey are required under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights to be 'independent and impartial'. In 2000, the European Court of Human Rights held in \"McGonnell v United Kingdom\" that there was a breach of Article 6 in \"Guernsey\" where the Bailiff or Deputy Bailiff sat as President of the States of Guernsey when proposed legislation was being debated and then subsequently sat as a judge of the Royal Court of Guernsey in a case where that legislation was relevant. The Court, noting that there was no suggestion that the Bailiff 'was subjectively biased', stated that the 'mere fact' that this happened was capable of casting doubt on the Bailiff's impartiality. A Bailiff and Deputy Bailiff in Jersey is able to avoid a \"McGonnell\" situation simply by not sitting in the Royal Court in cases concerned with legislation that was debated when he presided in the States. The current Bailiff, Mr Michael Birt has conceded that 'we probably need to improve our systems to be very compliant with \"McGonnell\" and that one probably ought to keep a running list of those statutes where I have presided so at least I could invite the parties to consider whether they wanted to object or not'. In a recent review chaired by Lord Carswell, set up by the States of Jersey, a legal opinion was commissioned from Rabinder Singh QC in which he expressed the view that 'there is no reason in law why the present constitutional arrangements in respect of the Bailiff should be altered. However, the trend suggests that the tide of history is in favour of reform and that the legal position will be different in 10 years time'. The report of Lord Carswell's inquiry concluded that Mr Singh's opinion 'provides an additional reason why the Bailiff should cease to be the President of the States'. The States of Jersey have not accepted this aspect of the Carswell report. Many prominent islanders do not believe that any change is necessary or desirable.\n\nIn recent years, a former State's member Mr Stuart Syvret has argued in legal proceedings in England and Jersey that all members of the Jersey judiciary lack the appearance of independence and impartiality. In March 2009, the High Court in London refused him permission to commence a judicial review claim against Home Secretary Jack Straw. In Jersey, subsequent proceedings related to a criminal prosecution for a data protection offence (he named a former nurse on his blog, who he said was guilty of murdering patients), judicial reviews and appeals relating to that criminal case, and a separate civil action brought by Syvret against fellow politicians and Law Officers in connection with his removal from office as minister for health. Syvret argues that he cannot have a fair trial in the island and there is a lack of appearance of independence and impartiality because judges are appointed by the Bailiff and the other judges have attended social events with the Bailiff. Syvret's arguments relating to lack of independence and impartiality have been rejected by the Royal Court and Court of Appeal in Jersey on a number of occasions between 2009 and 2011.\n\nThe Jersey legal profession has three types of Jersey-qualified lawyers - Advocates, Solicitors and Notaries Public. Advocates have rights of audience to represent clients in all courts. Jersey solicitors have no general rights of audience. Notaries have no rights of audience. The Law Society of Jersey is the professional body responsible for professional conduct. Notaries are regulated by the Faculty Office of the Archbishop of Canterbury through the Dean of the Arches, referred to as the Master of the Faculties, who is normally an English QC.\n\nSome law firms focus on legal practice relating to Jersey's finance industry, the largest being: Appleby; Bedell Cristin; Carey Olsen; Mourant Ozannes; and Ogier, all of which are regarded as part of the \"offshore magic circle\". Smaller firms and sole practitioners also provide a wide range of legal services. Several law firms now have offices in both Jersey and Guernsey but the legal professions of the two islands are separate, as they are separate from those in England, Wales and Scotland. Most notaries in Jersey are employed by, or are partners in, local firms of Jersey Advocates or Solicitors, although some are in English solicitors firms or practising purely as notaries, independent of the general legal profession. There is a local Jersey Notaries Society.\n\nThe Law Officers of the Crown are responsible for criminal prosecution work and for providing legal advice to the Crown, ministers and other members of the Assembly of the States of Jersey. The Attorney General and his deputy, the Solicitor General, are non-voting members of the States Assembly.\n\nThe process of qualifying as a Jersey lawyer is regulated by the Advocates and Solicitors (Jersey) Law 1997 and is similar for both advocates and solicitors. Since 2009, candidates for the Jersey law examinations are required to enrol on the Jersey Law Course run by the Institute of Law, Jersey. They are required to take five compulsory papers: (i) Jersey legal system and constitutional Law; (ii) Law of contract and the law relating to security on moveable property and bankruptcy; (iii) testate and intestate succession; law of immoveable property and conveyancing; and civil and criminal procedure. In addition, candidates must take one of three option papers: (i) company law; (ii) trusts law; or (iii) family law.\n\nThe admission of lawyers as Notaries in Jersey is governed by an order of the Master of the Faculties. It is necessary to show that a prospective Notary has been in actual practise in Jersey as a Jersey-qualified Advocate or Solicitor for a period of 5 years and is required to pass an examination in Notarial Practice. The Master does however retain a discretion to admit those who are not so qualified \"...in appropriate circumstances\".\n\nThere is no publicly funded legal aid system in Jersey, though the States of Jersey may exercise discretion to pay defence legal fees in serious criminal trials and in cases involving children. During their first 15 years of practice, Jersey Advocates and Solicitors, but not Notaries, are required to participate in a scheme organised by the profession to ensure so far as possible that people without sufficient resources are not prevented from pursuing or defending civil and criminal cases in the island's courts. The scheme is administered on behalf by the Bâtonnier (a senior member of the profession). Cases accepted by the Bâtonnier as eligible are allocated to lawyers on the basis of the 'Tour de Rôle' (i.e. according to one's turn). Depending on the litigants' income and assets, lawyers may work pro bono or charge a reasonable fee in accordance with published guidelines. A lawyer assigned a legal aid case may choose to pay another lawyer to handle the case and several firms have established specialist legal aid departments. There have been numerous and long-standing calls for reform of the present system.\n\nThe Jersey Law Commission was established by the States of Jersey in 1996 to keep Jersey law under review and bring forward proposals for law reform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32324298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32324298", "title": "Madras Public Libraries Act", "text": "Madras Public Libraries Act\n\nThe Madras Public Libraries Act, subsequently renamed as the Tamil Nadu Public Libraries Act, was enacted in Madras State, India, in 1948. The act was the first of its kind to be enacted in India after independence. The Connemara Public Library became the first library to come under the purview of this act, as a \"State central library\". Subsequently, nine district libraries were added during the Five year plan from 1951. The act was enacted based on research and activity by S. R. Ranganathan and the Madras Library Association. Other states have enacted public library acts modelled on the Madras Public Libraries Act.\n\nR. K. Bhatt has highlighted how free-to-access public library systems are a necessary adjunct to a developing society, with growing industrialisation and improving rates of literacy, and argues that legislation \"is an essential need in any country because it puts the structure, management and finance of library systems on proper legal footing\".\n\nRanganathan recognised this. He had spent time training as a librarian in London around 1923 and was impressed by the system of public library legislation which existed there. Upon returning to India he began to campaign for something similar to exist in his own country. The situation was complicated by the existence of various types of government, including provinces which were administered by the British Raj and various States under the control of princes. The fruits of his research and consultations were presented at the First All India Educational Conference in 1930. This report included a proposed Model Library Act.\n\nAlthough some areas, such as Baroda, had established public library systems prior to 1945, it was then that the first Act was passed, being the Kolhapur Public Libraries Act. This was followed in 1948 by the Madras Public Libraries Act, which became the first such Act to be passed in the newly independent republic of India. Acts for other areas, such as Kerala and Haryana, followed and generally improved on the earlier legislation.\n\nPrior to the Act, the principal library of Madras was the Connemara Public Library, which had opened in 1860 and became a public library in 1896. A small refundable deposit was required to use it but it was essentially free. It became the State Central Library in 1948 and, in 1981, a depository library.\n\nThe Madras Public Libraries Act provides for overall governance by a State Library Committee, presided over by the incumbent Education Minister for the State. The committee comprises members from various walks of life, including representatives from universities and from the State Library Association, as well as a Secretary whose primary function is as assistant to the Director of Public Libraries (DPL). The latter role is assumed by the incumbent Director of Public Instruction.\n\nRevenue is obtained via a cess, a tax which is collected by local administrative bodies such as the Nagar Palikas and Panchayats. Those bodies remit the tax to their Local Library Association (LLA), which operates as an umbrella organisation at the mid-tier District administrative level. The rate of taxation is fixed in law but the LLA can request a higher rate if the State government agrees to it. The State government matches the funds generated by the cess. The LLA determines the conditions of entry to the libraries under its control.\n\nCities with a population in excess of 50,000 must have a central library of their own and provisions exist for expansion to include branch libraries and other means of devolved access if demand should require such. In addition to libraries that are administered by the LLA, the Act provides for a register of other libraries. This is maintained by the DPL, who has the power to issue grants from State resources to those institutions listed. With the exception of the city of Madras, these grants cannot be less than the cess collected elsewhere.\n\nFurther resources are obtained by a modification caused by the Act. The Press and Registration of Books Act of 1857 is amended such that a situation somewhat akin to copyright libraries exists. All publishers within the State are required to provide five copies of their output to the State government, which in turn passes on four of those copies to the State Central Library.\n\nUntil various reorganisations of States, the Act applied to parts of what are now Andhra Pradesh and Kerala.\n\nSeveral perceived failings in the Madras Public Libraries Act have been addressed in subsequent Acts elsewhere. For example, the Hyderabad legislation, which later became the Andhra Pradesh Public Libraries Act, states that there should be a completely separate department of government to administer the libraries; that the head of the State Library Committee (in this case called the State Library Council) should be elected rather than defaulting to the portfolio of the current Education Minister; and that all local administrative areas should have their own library authority. Furthermore, the amount and extent of the cess collected was improved by extending the range of taxes upon which the surcharge was levied; and the government, through the State Library Council, has a duty to train the librarians. A key strategy which was embodied in the Act was the formulation of a hierarchical system whereby the local libraries were connected to the District libraries and they, in turn, were connected to the State Central Library and the National Library. Centralised acquisition and resource sharing was envisaged. This strategy had formed a part of the Second Five Year Plan but it appears not to have been enforced with any haste; Brahmanda Barua wrote in 1992 that throughout India \"The network principle has nowhere been applied in organising the libraries.\"\n\nBhatt believes that the Karnataka Public Libraries Act is the most adequate and best functioning in the evolution of such Acts, and notes that the lack of provision for a cess in the later Acts for Maharashtra and West Bengal are a significant failing. In the case of Karnataka, there is a State Library Authority which is presided over by the Minister for Education, and also a fully-fledged Department of Public Libraries and local administrative bodies. The cess applies to a wide range of taxes, including those on property and vehicles, and there is further funding in non-city areas as a consequence of the stipulation that the State government must give to the local bodies 3% of all revenues received from land taxes in their area. The financing of the State Library Authority is determined by the lower authorities and private libraries can request grants but are not automatically entitled to them.\n\nBy 2002 there had been a total of 12 public library acts in place, although two of those - for Hyderabad and Kolhapur - had been superseded due to changes in the administrative structure of those areas, and two others had not been enforced. Narasimha Raju considered that these Acts had proved to be \"by and large ineffective\", due to a combination of poor financing, poor administrative structure and, in some States, the \"lethargy and negative attitude\" of their governments. Raju also identified problems with the rapidly changing face of technology and noted that most of the libraries were unable to adapt to developments in television, radio and video recording. The Indian Library Association had taken on the campaign to improve matters, principally by promoting new legislation to replace that which already existed and Raju noted that many believed legislation should exist for the entire country rather than being a piecemeal system. \n\nDespite only eight Acts being in force, all twenty-five States and seven Union Territories had a central library and 75% of the Districts, which are the next tier of administration, had a similar facility. While legislated areas such as Maharashtra (1967) relied on volunteers and development of free libraries from the core of an existing subscription library system, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka (1965) and Andhra Pradesh (1960) were thought by T. Malleshappa to be the most developed when quantified by density of libraries and percentage of the population who had free access. D. B. Eswara Reddy, writing in the same publication, bemoaned the poor provision below District level, with 90% of the rural population not having access even to a reading room or circulating library, let alone modern multimedia and computing technology. Despite legislation and theoretical targets, library facilities remained the preserve of the urban elite and, for example, in Andhra Pradesh most children in rural areas were first-generation literates.\n\n"}
{"id": "3025243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3025243", "title": "NBA dress code", "text": "NBA dress code\n\nOn October 17, 2005, National Basketball Association commissioner David Stern announced the implementation of a mandatory dress code for all NBA and NBA Development League players. This was especially noteworthy because the NBA became the first major professional sports league to implement such a rule, although National Hockey League rules state that a player is supposed to wear a jacket and tie to games and on charters if not told otherwise by the head coach or general manager. The dress code went into effect at the start of the 2005–06 NBA season.\n\nStern's dress code stated that all players must dress in business or conservative attire while arriving and departing during a scheduled game, on the bench while injured, and when conducting official NBA business (press interviews, charity events, etc.). The new dress code banned fashions most often associated with hip-hop culture, specifically: jerseys, jeans, hats, do-rags, T-shirts, large jewelry, sneakers and caulk boots.\n\nThis particular clothing is not allowed to be worn by players to interviews, games (on and off the bench), charity events, or any other occasion affiliated with the NBA or the NBDL (now the G League). Violators of the dress code are fined and may be suspended with repeat offenses. The dress code was developed with the intention of combating image problems that have plagued the NBA in recent history.\n\nUnder current NBA dress regulations, if a player does not dress to participate in a game, he must dress in a manner suitable for a coach. In the NBA, a suit or a sport coat is required for coaches, as well as a necktie.\n\nThe league's image was in bad shape following the Pacers–Pistons brawl in 2004. Supporters also claim that most businesses require their employees to adhere to a dress code of some kind so the NBA is not making any unusual demands. Moreover, the NBA was not requiring players to wear a suit and tie, as had been rumored initially. Further, many NBA teams already had dress codes, as dictated by coaches or general managers. Penalties for non-compliance usually involved fines such as having to pay for one's own airfare to wherever the team was going, rather than flying on the team charter.\n\nCritics such as Allen Iverson, Stephen Jackson and Paul Pierce claim that the dress code will not change a person's character regardless of what type of clothing they wear, and that associating hip-hop style of dress with crime or a bad image is racist. Iverson was also quoted to say, \"the dress code is not who I am and doesn't allow me to express myself.\"\n\nMany NBA and non-NBA sports figures also claim that it targets young black males and is a slap against hip-hop culture. Most NBA players are sponsored by companies such as Nike, Adidas, Puma and Converse.\n\nWriting for \"Rolling Stone\", Zack Graham said that although players were initially critical of the dress code, \"Over the years, NBA players accepted, then embraced and eventually began to have fun with the new dress code, changing men's fashion in the process.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "29527007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29527007", "title": "National Moot Court Competition", "text": "National Moot Court Competition\n\nThe National Moot Court Competition is one of the oldest moot court competitions in the United States. Co-sponsored by the New York City Bar Association and the American College of Trial Lawyers, the competition includes up to 191 teams from 124 law schools, who compete in regional competitions in November with the top two in each region advancing to the national competition held in the landmark House of the New York City Bar Association in February.\n\nThe National Moot Court Competition was created in 1947 by Harrison Tweed, then president of the New York City Bar Association, as part of a campaign to recruit younger members to the City Bar in the years following World War II.\n\nThe first competition was held at the City Bar's building in January 1950. Twelve law school teams debated the legality of \"rainmaking,\" or the use by farmers of rainmaking devices to divert water from adjacent land. The program was formatted as a mock appeal, in order to develop the skills of appellate advocacy among law students.\n\nIn the years since, the moot court competition has expanded to include competitions in 15 regions throughout the continental United States. The cases argued traditionally focus on a timely issue arising under the United States Constitution, in keeping with the competition's original theme of appellate advocacy. The final national competition continues to be held in New York, and the final argument between the top two teams is judged by a seven-person mock court, including prominent jurists, the president of the New York City Bar Association and the president of the American College of Trial Lawyers.\n\nIn both the regional and national competitions, all teams are required to argue the same single case on appeal. The case consists of two issues drawn from current legal issues that are likely to be considered by the Supreme Court in the near future. The cases are devised and prepared each year by the Young Lawyers Committee of the New York City Bar Association.\n\nThe National Moot Court Competition begins on the regional level. The United States is divided into fifteen regions, each of which hosts its own regional competition for teams whose law schools fall within their jurisdiction. Each fall, the New York City Bar Association invites all ABA-accredited law schools to field moot court teams of two to three students to participate in regional competitions. \nThe regional winners and runners-up compete in a four-day national competition, as the 30-team field narrows to sixteen, eight, four, two, and ultimately one champion over the course of the competition.\n\nThe best overall team is presented with the Fulton Haight Award, which includes a trophy and a cash reward. The team presenting the best oral arguments is awarded the John W. Davis award, which includes an engraved silver cup. Best individual speaker and runner-up for best individual speaker are both awarded crystal obelisks by the American College of Trial Lawyers.\n\nEvery participating team is required to submit a brief in advance of the regional and (if they qualify to attend) national competitions. At each competition, teams are required to argue both sides of their appeal. Competitors are judged 40% on written briefs, and 60% on oral presentation. The Competition is administered by, and governed by Rules drafted by, the New York City Bar's Young Lawyers Committee.\n\nThe National Moot Court Competition has attracted a prestigious roster of past judges and competitors. United States Supreme Court Justices Thurgood Marshall, Potter Stewart, Byron White, William Rehnquist, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sandra Day O'Connor, and Anthony Kennedy have all judged past final rounds. Other notable judges have included Hon. Barrington D. Parker, Hon. Judith S. Kaye, and Hon. Amalya Kearse.\n\n2018: Northwestern Pritzker School of Law - Taylor Mullaney, LJ Pavletic, Brendan Gerdes\n\n2017: Wake Forest University School of Law - Matt Cloutier, Mia Falzarano, Blake Stafford \n2016: Texas Tech University School of Law - Kristen Vanderplas, C.J. Baker, Shelby Hall \n2015: George Washington University Law School - Kyle Singhal and Dane Shikman \n2014: University of Georgia School of Law- Steven Strasberg, Ben Thorpe, Emily Westberry \n2013: Stetson University College of Law- Julia McGrath, Victoria San Pedro, Andrew Harris \n2012: Texas Tech University School of Law - Brandon Beck, Allie Hallmark, and Elizabeth Hill\n2011: Texas Tech University School of Law - Alexis Butler, Daniel Durell, and Jason Jordan\n2010: University of Arkansas School of Law - Ashley Driver, Taylor Mattson, Allison Waldrip\n2009: Chicago-Kent College of Law - Andrew Booth, Brody Dawson, Betsy Gates\n2008: Chicago-Kent College of Law - Joanna Brinkman, Lalania Gilkey-Johnson, Rachel Moran\n2007: University of Washington School of Law - Dustin Buehler, Candice Tewell, Aaron Thomson\n2006: Duke University School of Law - April Nelson, Sara Wickware, Audry Casusol\n2005: University of California Hastings College of Law - Leah Bolstad, Mark D'Argenio, Eliza Hoard\n2004: South Texas College of Law - Marit M. Babin, Kenneth O. Corley, J. Daniel Johnson\n2003: Wayne State University Law School - Dana Bennett, Jennifer Savage, Caroline Whittemore\n2002: University of California Hastings College of Law - Robert Hodil, Mohammad Keshavarzi, Joel Muchmore\n2001: Drake University Law School - Theodore Sims II, William D. Schultz, Jeffrey Link\n2000: University of Montana School of Law - Bobbi Frazer, John Mudd, Taryn Stampfl\n\n2018: Taylor Mullaney, Northwestern Pritzker School of Law \n2017: Mia Falzarano, Wake Forest University School of Law \n2016: Kyle Crawford, Georgetown University Law Center \n2015: Stephen Petkis, Georgetown University Law Center \n2014: Ben Thorpe, University of Georgia School of Law \n2013: Michael Coleman Gretchen, University of Georgia School of Law \n2012: Grace Yang, University of California Berkeley Law \n2011: Alexis Butler, Texas Tech University \n2010: Allison Waldrip, University of Arkansas School of Law \n2009: Daniel Schwei, University of Pennsylvania \n2008: Rachel Moran, Chicago-Kent College of Law \n\n"}
{"id": "49929833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49929833", "title": "Obrogation", "text": "Obrogation\n\nIn the canon law of the Catholic Church, obrogation is the enacting of a contrary law that is a revocation of a previous law. It may also be the partial cancellation or amendment of a law, decree, or legal regulation by the imposition of a newer one.\n\nIn the civil law, obrogation is the modification or repeal of a law in whole or in part by issuing a new law.\n\nThe 1983 Code of Canon Law governs here in Canon 53: \n\nThis canon incorporates Rule 34 in VI of the \"Regulae Iuris\": \"Generi per speciem derogatur\" or \"The specific derogates from the general.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "974701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=974701", "title": "Public interest litigation in India", "text": "Public interest litigation in India\n\nPublic Interest Litigation is directly filed by an individual or group of people in the [Supreme Court of India] and High Courts of India and judicial member. It was felt that their interests are undermined by the government .In such a situation, the court directly accepts the public interest litigation. It is a new legal horizon in which court of law can initiate and enforce action to serve and secure significant Public Interest Litigation.\n\nIn December 1979, Kapila Hingorani had filed a petition regarding the condition of the prisoners detained in the Bihar jail, whose suits were pending in the court. The special thing about this petition was that it was not filed by any single prisoner, rather it was filed by various prisoners of the Bihar jail. The case was filed in the Supreme Court before the bench headed by Justice P.N.Bhagwati. This petition was filed by the name of the prisoner, Hussainara Khatoon, hence the petition came to be known as \"Hussainara Khatoon Vs State of Bihar\". In this case, the Supreme Court upheld that the prisoners should get benefit of free legal aid and fast hearing. Because of this case 40,000 prisoners, whose suits were pending in the court, were released from the jail. There after many cases like this have registered in the supreme court. It was in the case of SP Gupta vs Union of India that the Supreme Court of India defined the term \"public interest litigation\" in the Indian Context.\n\nThe concept of Public Interest Litigation (PIL) is in consonance with the principles enshrined in Article 39A of the Constitution of India to protect and deliver prompt social justice with the help of law. Before the 1980s, only the aggrieved party could approach the courts for justice. After the emergency era the high court reached out to the people, devising a means for any person of the public (or an NGO) to approach the court seeking legal remedy in cases where the public interest is at stake. Justice P. N. Bhagwati and Justice V. R. Krishna Iyer were among the first judges to admit PILs in court. Filing a PIL is not as cumbersome as a usual legal case; there have been instances when letters and telegrams addressed to the court have been taken up as PILs and heard.\n\nThe Court entertained a letter from two professors at the University of Delhi seeking enforcement of the constitutional right of inmates at a protective home in Agra who were living in inhuman and degrading conditions. In \"Miss Veena Sethi v. State of Bihar\", 1982 (2) SCC 583 : 1982 SCC (Cri) 511 : AIR 1983 SC 339, the court treated a letter addressed to a judge of the court by the Free Legal Aid Committee in Hazaribagh, Bihar as a writ petition. In \"Citizens for Democracy through its President v. State of Assam and Others\", 1995 KHC 486 : 1995 (2) KLT SN 74 : 1995 (3) SCC 743 : 1995 SCC (Cri) 600 : AIR 1996 SC 2193, the court entertained a letter from Shri Kuldip Nayar (a journalist, in his capacity as President of Citizens for Democracy) to a judge of the court alleging human-rights violations of Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA) detainees; it was treated as a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.\n\nPIL is a \"rule of law\" declared by the courts of record. However, the person (or entity) filing the petition must prove to the satisfaction of the court that the petition is being filed for the public interest and not as a frivolous litigation for pecuniary gain. The 38th Chief Justice of India, S. H. Kapadia, has stated that substantial \"fines\" would be imposed on litigants filing frivolous PILs. His statement was widely welcomed, because the instance of frivolous PILs for pecuniary interest has increased; a bench of the high court has also expressed concern over the misuse of PILs. The bench has issued a set of guidelines it wanted all courts in the country to observe when entertaining PILs.\n\nIn a September 2008 speech, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh expressed concern over the misuse of PILs: “Many would argue that like in so many things in public life, in PILs too we may have gone too far. Perhaps a corrective was required and we have had some balance restored in recent times”. In what may be a tool against frivolous PILs, the Union Ministry of Law and Justice is preparing a law regulating PILs. Helping the ministry was former Chief Justice of India late P. N. Bhagwati who pioneered PIL. Justice V. R. Krishna Iyer, was also part of it till his death on 4 December 2014.\n\nThe judgment said: “This court wants to make it clear that an action at law is not a game of chess. A litigant who approaches the court must come with clean hands. He cannot prevaricate and take inconsistent positions”. Since the Amar Singh petition was vague, not in conformance with the rules of procedure and contained inconsistencies, the court did not explore his primary grievance (infringement of privacy). One positive outcome of the case was the court’s request that the government “frame certain statutory guidelines to prevent interception of telephone conversation on unauthorised requests”. In this case, Reliance Communications acted upon a forged request from police.\n\nIn \"Kalyaneshwari vs Union of India\", the court cited the misuse of public-interest litigation in business conflicts. A writ petition was filed in the Gujarat High Court seeking the closure of asbestos units, stating that the material was harmful to humans. The high court dismissed the petition, stating that it was filed at the behest of rival industrial groups who wanted to promote their products as asbestos substitutes. A similar petition was then submitted to the Supreme Court. The plea was dismissed, and the plaintiff was assessed a fine of 100,000. The judgment read: “The petition lacks \"bona fide\" and in fact was instituted at the behest of a rival industrial group, which was interested in banning of the activity of mining and manufacturing of asbestos. A definite attempt was made by it to secure a ban on these activities with the ultimate intention of increasing the demand of cast and ductile iron products as they are some of the suitable substitute for asbestos. Thus it was litigation initiated with ulterior motive of causing industrial imbalance and financial loss to the industry of asbestos through the process of court”. The court stated that it was its duty in such circumstances to punish the petitioners under the Contempt of Courts Act; it must “ensure that such unscrupulous and undesirable public interest litigation be not instituted in courts of law so as to waste the valuable time of the courts as well as preserve the faith of the public in the justice delivery system”.\n\n“By now it ought to be plain and obvious that this Court does not approve of an approach that would encourage petitions filed for achieving oblique motives on the basis of wild and reckless allegations made by individuals, i.e., busybodies”, a bench of Justices B. Sudershan Reddy and S. S. Nijjar observed in their judgment. The bench overturned an April 2010 Andhra Pradesh High Court decision, which set aside the services of a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer employed by the Tirumala Venkateswara Temple. The high court’s decision concerned a public-interest petition filed by S. Mangati Gopal Reddy, who alleged in court that the former IPS officer was involved in the loss of “300 gold dollars” from the temple and should not continue in office. The Supreme Court found that the high court decided against the accused with little information about Reddy himself.\n\n“The parameters within which PILs can be entertained have been laid down. The credentials, the motive and the objective of the petitioner have to be apparently and patently aboveboard. Otherwise the petition is liable to be dismissed at the threshold”, the judgment stated. As for why it is skeptical about a large number of PILs, the bench spoke for the Supreme Court when it said that the “judiciary has to be extremely careful to see that behind the beautiful veil of public interest an ugly private malice, vested interest and/or publicity-seeking is not lurking. This Court (Supreme Court of India) must not allow its process to be abused for oblique considerations by masked phantoms who monitor at times from behind”.\n\n\nA PIL may be filed against state government, central government, municipal authority not any private party. But, private person may be included in PIL as ‘Respondent’, after concerned of state authority. i.e. a private factory in Mumbai which is causing pollution then public interest litigation can be file against government of Mumbai, state pollution central board including that private factory of Mumbai.\n\nThe court must be satisfied that the Writ petition fulfils some basic needs for PIL as the letter is addressed by the aggrieved person, public spirited individual and a social action group for the enforcement of legal or Constitutional rights to any person who are not able to approach the court for redress. Any citizen can file a public case by filing a petition:\n\nThis case was against sexual harassment at work place, brought by Bhanwari Devi to stop the marriage of a one year old girl in rural Rajasthan. Five men raped her. She faced numerous problems when she attempted to seek justice. Naina Kapoor decided to initiate a PIL to challenge sexual harassment at work place, in this supreme court.\n\nThe judgement of the case recognized sexual harassment as a violation of the fundamental constitutional rights of Article 14, Article 15 and Article 21. The guidelines also directed for sexual harassment prevention.\nIn this case, the court passed three landmark judgements and several orders against polluting industries which were more than 50,000 in the Ganga basin. The court shut down numerous industries and allowing them to reopen only after controlled pollution. At the end, millions of people escaped air and water pollution in the Ganga basin, including eight states in India.\n\nAccording to a controversial study by social scientist Hans Dembowski, PIL has been successful in making official authorities accountable to NGOs. While Dembowski also found some effect at the grassroots level, PIL cases dealing with major environmental grievances in the Kolkata urban agglomeration did not tackle underlying problems (such as inadequate town planning). Dembowski's book \"Taking the State to Supreme Court - Public Interest Litigation and the Public Sphere in Metropolitan India\" was originally published by Oxford University Press in 2001. The publisher, however, discontinued distribution because of contempt of court proceedings initiated by the Calcutta High Court. The author (who claimed he was never officially notified by the court) has republished the book online with German NGO Asia House.\n\nA bench consisting of Justices G. S. Singhvi and Asok Kumar Ganguly pointed out that laws enacted for achieving the goals set out in the Preamble to the Constitution were inadequate; the benefits of welfare measures embodied in the legislation had not reached millions of poor people, and efforts to bridge the gap between rich and poor did not yield the desired results.\n\nWriting the judgment in a case concerning sewage workers, Justice Singhvi stated: “The most unfortunate part of the scenario is that whenever one of the three constituents of the state i.e., the judiciary issues directions for ensuring that the right to equality, life, and liberty no longer remains illusory for those who suffer from the handicap of poverty, illiteracy and ignorance, and directions are given for implementation of the laws enacted by the legislature for the benefit of the have-nots, a theoretical debate is started by raising the bogey of judicial activism or overreach”.\n\nThe bench clarified that it was necessary to erase the impression on some that the superior courts, by entertaining PIL petitions for the poor (who could not seek protection of their rights), exceeded the unwritten boundaries of their jurisdiction. The judges said it was the duty of the judiciary (like that of the legislative and executive constituents of the state) to protect the rights of every citizen and ensure that all lived with dignity.\n\nSuch cases may be filed in the public interest when victims lack the capability to commence litigation, or their freedom to petition the court has been encroached. The court may proceed \"suo motu\", or cases can proceed on the petition of an individual or group. Courts may also proceed on the basis of letters written to them, or newspaper reports.\n\nThe Centre for Law and Policy Research, Bangalore (CLPR) hosts a Public Interest Lawyering Hub, where resources on PIL are available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "278238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=278238", "title": "Quasi-contract", "text": "Quasi-contract\n\nA quasi-contract (or implied-in-law contract or constructive contract) is a fictional contract recognised by a court. The notion of a quasi-contract can be traced to Roman law and is still a concept used in some modern legal systems.\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, the law of quasi-contract can be traced to the medieval form of action known as \"indebitatus assumpsit\". In essence, the plaintiff would recover a money sum from the defendant \"as if\" the defendant had promised to pay it: that is, \"as if\" there were a contract subsisting between the parties. The defendant's promise—their agreement to be bound by the \"contract\"—was implied by law. The law of quasi-contract was generally used to enforce restitutionary obligations.\n\nThe form of action known as \"indebitatus assumpsit\" came to include various sub-forms known as the common money counts. The most important of these for the later development of the law of quasi-contract included: (i) actions for money had and received to the plaintiff's use; (ii) actions for money paid to the defendant's use; (iii) \"quantum meruit\"; and (iv) \"quantum valebat\".\n\nQuasi-contractual actions were generally (but not exclusively) used to remedy what would now be called unjust enrichment. In most common law jurisdictions the law of quasi-contract has been superseded by the law of unjust enrichment.\n\nA quasi-contract was distinct from a contract implied in fact. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "501189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501189", "title": "Rider (legislation)", "text": "Rider (legislation)\n\nIn legislative procedure, a rider is an additional provision added to a bill or other measure under the consideration by a legislature, having little connection with the subject matter of the bill. Riders are usually created as a tactic to pass a controversial provision that would not pass as its own bill. Occasionally, a controversial provision is attached to a bill not to be passed itself but to prevent the bill from being passed (in which case it is called a wrecking amendment or poison pill).\n\nThe use of riders is prevalent and customary in the Senate of the Congress of the United States, as the Senate's rules of germaneness are much more tolerant than those of the House of Representatives. In the House, riders are generally not allowed, as any amendment to a bill must deal with the substance of the bill under consideration.\n\nRiders are most effective when attached to an important bill, such as an appropriation bill, because to veto or postpone such a bill could delay funding to governmental programs, causing serious problems.\n\nWhen the veto is an all-or-nothing power as it is in the United States Constitution, the executive must either accept the riders or reject the entire bill. The practical consequence of the custom of using riders is to constrain the veto power of the executive.\n\nThe Line Item Veto Act of 1996 was passed to allow the President of the United States to veto single objectionable items within bills passed by Congress, but the Supreme Court struck down the act as unconstitutional in \"Clinton v. City of New York\".\n\nRiders may be unrelated to the subject matter of bills to which they are attached and are commonly used to introduce unpopular provisions. For example, a rider to stop net neutrality was attached to a bill relating to military and veteran construction projects. Another rider has been the Hyde Amendment which since 1976 has been attached to Appropriation Bills to prevent Medicaid paying for most abortions. Another was the Boland Amendment in 1982 and 1983 to restrict financing of the Contras in Nicaragua.\n\nA recent notable example of a rider was in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. An amended version of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2010 that was signed into law by Barack Obama only one week before, the amended bill included a rider for the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, whose student loan reform was completely unrelated to the broader bill's primary focus on health care reform.\n\nRiders exist at the state level as well. For just one example,a 2005 bill in West Virginia that was primarily focused on limiting the number of members that cities can appoint to boards of parks and recreation unexpectedly included a rider that made the English language the official language of the state of West Virginia. Most members of the West Virginia Legislature did not realize that the rider had been entered into the bill until it had already passed both state houses. Then-West Virginia governor Joe Manchin, although a personal supporter of the English-only movement, promptly vetoed the bill due to a provision in the Constitution of West Virginia that limits bills to one topic, which also makes riders \"de facto\" unconstitutional in West Virginia. To counteract riders, 43 of the 50 U.S. states have provisions in their state constitutions allowing the use of line item vetos so that the executive can veto single objectionable items within a bill, without affecting the main purpose or effectiveness of the bill.\n\nThe Constitutional Council of France has taken an increasingly hard view against riders, which it considers unconstitutional and contrary to the rules of procedure of the parliamentary assemblies. In 1985 the Council started striking down amendment to laws because they were unrelated to the subject of the law. Two special categories of riders merit mention: the \"budgetary riders\", attached to budget bills, and \"social riders\", attached to the budget bill for social security organizations, clauses that have no link to the budget or to the social security budgets, respectively.\n\nIn 2005, the Constitutional Court of Hungary struck down the yearly national budget law in its entirety, because almost half of the paragraphs were not related to state fiscals at all, but modified 44 other existing pieces of legislation, which concerned health regulations, public education and foreign relations. This judicial ruling restricted the government's future options in bypassing due parliamentary debate and imposing certain reforms unilaterally.\n\nIn some legislative systems, such as the British Parliament, riders are prevented by the existence of the long title of a bill that describes the full purpose of the bill. Any part of the bill that falls outside the scope of the long title would not be permitted. However, legislators often bypass this limitation by naming a bill vaguely, such as by appending \"and for connected purposes\" to the name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24391884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24391884", "title": "Rogatio", "text": "Rogatio\n\nIn Roman constitutional law, rogatio is the term (from Latin \"rogo\", \"ask, place a question before\") for a legislative bill placed before an Assembly of the People in ancient Rome. The \"rogatio\" procedure underscores the fact that the Roman senate could issue decrees, but was not a legislative or parliamentarian body. Only the People could pass legislation.\n\nA magistrate with the right to summon the assembly could propose a bill (\"rogatio legis\"); the proposed laws themselves were \"leges rogatae\". A bill's proposer was its \"lator\"; a supporter was an \"auctor\". Discussions in the senate would contribute to the drafting of a bill, which would be published (\"promulgare rogationem\", that is, \"promulgatio\") three weeks or more before it was formally submitted to the assembly. During this period, citizens could discuss the bill and propose changes, or more rarely ask for its withdrawal, at informal sessions (\"contiones\"). After the bill had been brought before the assembly for the vote, it could no longer be modified.\n\nThe legislator who introduced the bill asked \"Velitis iubeatis, Quirites?\" (\"Citizens, are you going to approve and order?\") and the people responded yea or nay without discussion. If a bill was withdrawn after the \"rogatio\" but before the vote was taken, it was usually because a tribune threatened to use his veto power against it, or less frequently because it proved unpopular among the \"plebs\". If a bill was passed (\"rogatio lata est\"), it became a law (\"lex\") after the presiding magistrate made a formal announcement (\"renuntiatio\") of the assembly's decision.\n\nIn the Early Republic, the senate had to approve the constitutionality of a law before it was enacted; after the passage of the \"Lex Publilia Philonis\" in 339 BC, which required that at least one of the two \"censores\" be a plebeian, this approval (\"patrum auctoritas\") was required before the bill was put to a vote in the assembly. With controversial popularist measures, however, the senate was sometimes bypassed. \nIf a bill was proposed for the purpose of declaring war, it had to be brought before the Centuriate Assembly.\n\nA bill that became law was inscribed on copper or marble tablets and kept in the state treasury (\"aerarium populi romani\") under the supervision of the quaestors.\n\nIn 63 BC, Cicero managed to obstruct a \"rogatio Servilia\" by making a speech before the people; this appears to be the only time in the Late Republic when oratory blocked a popular piece of legislation, which in this case had provided for the distribution of land to the poor. Or so Cicero claims; the bill's sponsor, the tribune Servilius Rullus, more likely withdrew it because of the threat of veto from one of his fellow tribunes, and it never reached the \"comitia\".\n"}
{"id": "47186349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47186349", "title": "Seal culling in South Australia", "text": "Seal culling in South Australia\n\nSeal culling in South Australia was strongly advocated for in 2015 in response to increasing interactions of \"Arctocephalus forsteri\", the indigenous long-nosed fur seal (also known as the New Zealand fur seal), with the state's fishing industry. In the 19th century, both fur seals and Australian sea lions were hunted for their hides. During the 20th century, seals were sometimes culled on the assumption that they were competing with fishermen. As of 2018 seal culling is illegal, but remains a topic of public debate. All pinnipeds in South Australia remain fully protected under the \"National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972\" as listed Marine Mammals. As of 2016, there were an estimated 100,000 long-nosed fur seals in South Australian waters.\n\nDespite confusion stemming from its common name, the New Zealand fur seal (\"Arctocephalus forsteri)\" is a pinniped native to South Australia. Efforts to overcome this confusion have led to increasing use of the common name, long-nosed fur seal.\n\nThe species was heavily hunted by sealers in the early 1800s. Seals were clubbed to death by men who raided seal colonies and rookeries by boat, sometimes swimming ashore armed with clubs and knives. The sealers typically bludgeoned the animals to death and used knives to skin the carcasses. Pups were often killed along with their mothers or sometimes kept as pets. The hides of the slain seals were then pickled in brine and exported. Seal hunting continued to occur in Gulf St. Vincent in the 1880s.\n\nThe colony of South Australia was only officially established in 1836, and as such, no baseline data exists for the South Australian seal population prior to the impact of hunting. Their population's gradual recovery, spanning the past century, has brought them into increasing conflict with the state's fishing industry.\n\nThe killing of seals in South Australian waters continued into the 20th century, on the assumption that they were in competition with fishermen. 7,000 to 8,000 were estimated to have been killed in the six months prior to August 1918. One man alone, Mr S. H. Sheridan of Glenelg admitted to having killed 1,430 seals during this period on the islands of Spencer Gulf. Captain S. A. White, an \"ardent nature lover\", said of calls that seals should be killed for allegedly competing with fishermen:\"It is not the seals, poor creatures, but that ever destructive being, man, who has created the dearth [of fish]. It is high time the Governments of this country let a glimmer of natural science into their deliberations, and not go for advice to those who are fighting against nature and bringing dire consequences upon their heads.\"White estimated that prior to the European colonisation of South Australia, hundreds of thousands of seals likely inhabited its waters.\n\nIn 1929, \"The Advertiser\" reported that men had been landing on islands in Spencer Gulf and \"molesting seals.\" At this time the animals were protected under the \"Animals and Bird Protection Act\". It was prohibited \"for any person to land on Dangerous Reef with a gun or a dog, or to take seals on any of the islands or reefs within St. Vincent or Spencer Gulf north of a line from Cape Catastrophe to Cape Borda, continued to Cape Hart at the south-eastern corner of Kangaroo Island, thence to the mouth of the River Murray.\"\n\nSeals were known to enter inland river systems and were seen as far up the Murray-Darling system as Deniliquin, 1,000 miles from the mouth of the Murray. A hotel at Conargo once displayed the skin of a seal shot in the river nearby. Other accounts of inland seal sightings prior to 1933 include at Tyntynder, Pental Island, Echuca and near Swan Hill. Other sighting locations include Loxton and Mildura. Seen in this inland context, seals were often referred to as bunyips or otherwise misidentified.\n\nIn 1940 some fishermen claimed to have suffered damage to their nets which they attributed to seals. The Chief Inspector of Fisheries and Game at the time suspected that some of the damage had not been done by seals, but rather by sharks. At this time, fishermen in the neighboring state of Victoria were allowed to shoot seals which interfered with their fishing efforts or equipment.\n\nIn 1954, W. W. Jenkins suggested in Parliament that an open season should be called to keep seal numbers in check. Fisherman A. W. Lundstrom wrote that before the barrages were built across the River Murray, seals were often seen near the town of Goolwa. Construction of the barrages began in 1935 and they were completed in 1940. Lundstrom, acting as President of the Southern Fishermen's Association wrote of the seals:\"We as fishermen still maintain that the seal is a menace to the fishing industry in the same way as the rabbits, dingoes or kangaroos are to the landholder.\"At the time, three fishermen in the Victor Harbor area had permission to shoot seals which interfered with their fishing nets. One of them, Mr A. J. Jenkins called for an \"open season\" on seals, stating:\"We want the seals' sanctuary on the islands abolished and a continuous open season declared so these pests may be destroyed at their breeding grounds.\"The article in which Jenkins is quoted also claimed that seals consumed up to of fish each day. In a written reply, A. Keith Minchin, Director of Adelaide's Koala Farm, called the claim \"a colossal exaggeration\" and wrote that even a large seal would consume less than of fish daily.\n\nIn 1967 it was alleged that fishermen were harpooning seals and dolphins in South Australian waters and using the meat as crayfish bait. The claim was refuted by Mr. Thompson, a government fisheries inspector. Thompson stated that permits to cull seals could be made available, and had been previously when net damage caused by seals had been demonstrated. At the time such permits were to be issued \"only when deemed absolutely necessary.\"\n\nIn 1984, Australian sea lions were reportedly responsible for damaging the nets of fishermen near Victor Harbor. Fishermen's applications for permits to kill the animals were rejected due to the species' low population. As of 2015, the Australian sea lion remains an endangered species.\n\nThe southern bluefin tuna ranching industry was established in the early 1990s and reported increasing interactions with fur seals in the 2010s. This led the industry to seek permission to kill seals that they claim they can recognise. Marcus Stehr, son of Hagen Stehr and executive of the Stehr Group told \"The Advertiser\" in 2012 that fur seal interactions were costing their southern bluefin tuna ranching aquaculture business \"at least $1 million\" annually. He stated:\"Seals cost the entire industry millions of dollars every year and we do need support from the State Government to look at how we manage them. In SA we have failed to develop any strategies to manage growing seal numbers and it's vital that this begins.\"In 2013 Brian Jeffriess told \"The Advertiser\":\"Attacks by seals are a major problem for tuna ranching. They are the largest cause of tuna deaths in the pontoons and frighten the other tuna so they do not eat for days.\"In 2013 \"The Advertiser\" reported that New Zealand fur seals ate an average of 4.5 kilograms of marine species each per day. At that time the state population was estimated at over 85,000 animals. In 2015, Dr Brad Page told the ABC that the population had reached 100,000 animals. He also stated that most of the fur seals' diet consists of red bait and arrow squid, and not species which are typically caught and sold for human consumption.\n\nIn August 2014, two decapitated New Zealand fur seals were found in Louth Bay, southern Spencer Gulf. The circumstances of their death were regarded as suspicious.\n\nIn June 2015, the prospect of seal culling in South Australia became a subject of increasing public debate and controversy. Mounting frustration among fishermen has led some to admit that they will consider taking action themselves in order to protect their livelihoods. A seal was also killed at Murray Bridge after being hit by a boat during a ski-racing event. Approximately five seals were seen in the area, and the event was cancelled after the animal was hit. Its injuries were assessed by a local vet who then euthanized the seal.\n\nIn July 2015, fishermen from the Lower Lakes and Coorong region reported that fur seals had damaged their fishing nets.\n\nIn August 2015, Narrinjeri elder and fisherman Darrell Sumner admitted to having killed at least four seals and injuring another. He threatened to kill more animals in the future, and believes that the seals are killing pelicans- his people's totem animal. The Narrinjeri believe that pelicans embody the spirits of their dead ancestors, and has said that he doesn't care that killing or hurting the animals is an illegal act under \"white man's law\".\n\nFishermen believe that seals are competing with wild catch fisheries, and have reported net damage that they claim was caused by fur seals. Southern bluefin tuna ranchers have reported stock losses at their seacage aquaculture operations. Regions in which claims have been made that fur seals are impacting fisheries and aquaculture businesses include: Kangaroo Island, the Lower lakes and Coorong, and southern Spencer Gulf.\n\nA spokesperson for the Environment Department of the Government of South Australia told \"The Advertiser\" in 2012:\"The Government does not support culling, sterilisation or relocation of NZ fur seals in SA. Attempts interstate and overseas to manage seal populations through culling, sterilisation or relocation have proven resource-hungry and largely ineffectual and any benefit received from relocating a small number of seals would likely be lost due to the influx of new seals.\"In April 2016, South Australia's environment minister Ian Hunter reaffirmed the Government's position stating \"the best available science\" showed a cull \"would not work\". He told \"The Advertiser\" that the Government was instead \"focusing our resources on measures to reduce the impact of long nosed fur seal populations, including trialing different nets and underwater cracker deterrents.”\n\nAll seals and sealions are protected in South Australian waters as listed marine mammals under the \"National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972\". They are also protected as a marine species under the \"EPBC Act 1999\". This increases the area in which they are protected to include Commonwealth waters and lands controlled by the Commonwealth government.\n\nCulling seals in South Australian waters has been advocated for most strongly by fishermen and aquaculture operators who claim that their businesses have suffered as a result of the population's recovery. Other advocates include Liberal Party politicians, conservative newspaper columnist and Liberal member Nicolle Flint, a penguin tour operator in Kangaroo Island and their supporters.\n\nThe owner of the Kangaroo Island Penguin Centre, John Ayliffe has advocated for the culling of fur seals on Kangaroo Island, which he believes have impacted little penguin colonies, and therefore his business.\n\nPoliticians advocating for the commencement of a cull have included Liberal Party MPs Adrian Pederick, Michael Pengilly and Jamie Briggs.\n\nDr Peter Shaughnessy of the South Australian Museum advised that the culling of seals in South Australia would be a bad idea. Political opposition to the culling of seals in South Australia has been demonstrated by animal rights activists, including Animals Australia and the Seals of Nam. Both organisations have created petitions encouraging people to sign and express their opposition to any future cull. Australian Greens MLC Tammy Franks has spoken out against culling, along with the Humane Society International.\n\nWhile Family First politician Robert Brokenshire has been critical of the Government's \"do nothing\" approach, he has also expressed concern over the impact that seal culling could have on the State's reputation and tourism industry. He told the ABC:\"Some people have called for culling, now the reality is that we can't do that. It would just damage our economy, it would ruin our tourism.\"\n\nSA Shark Industry spokesman Kyri Toumazos suggested that a permitting scheme for seal culling operates in Tasmania. According to the Tasmanian government, all seals in Tasmanian waters are protected. In response to the question \"Do seals threaten fisheries?\" the Tasmanian government has stated:\"Some fishermen complain about seals, accusing them of taking all their fish. Occasionally fishermen suggest that seals should be culled and that this will increase fish stocks and there will then be more available for human consumption. However, closer examination of seal-fishery interactions at the ecosystem level suggests that removing or culling seals may in fact be detrimental to fish stocks rather than beneficial. Remove a top predator and the whole system runs the risk of collapse.\"\n"}
{"id": "3433416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3433416", "title": "Society of Construction Arbitrators", "text": "Society of Construction Arbitrators\n\nThe Society of Construction Arbitrators is a learned society of arbitrators, adjudicators and mediators in the construction industry, based in London. It has as its object the development and support of commercial methods of alternative dispute resolution. Members of the Society include architects, engineers, surveyors and lawyers from around the world.\n\nThe Society has published the Construction Industry Model Arbitration Rules (CIMAR), which since being adopted as the standard by the Joint Contracts Tribunal, have been widely used for dispute resolution in the industry. A less widely used publication is the 100-day Arbitration Rules.\n\n"}
{"id": "5223265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5223265", "title": "Substitution (law)", "text": "Substitution (law)\n\nIn legal terms, the right of substitution is a statutory right of all parties except the state. It is the right to change the presiding court official with or without cause.\n\nJudges are usually given cases randomly within a jurisdiction (unless there is only one judge in a jurisdiction, in which case they receive all cases). The right of substitution does not give a litigant the right to choose a judge, just the random selection of another judge in the jurisdiction. If the right is exercised in a jurisdiction with one judge usually a judge from a neighboring jurisdiction will take the case, although on occasion a Reserve Judge or Commissioner may be used.\n\nThe right of substitution, where applicable, may be exercised by criminal and juvenile defendants and all parties in a civil action. Substitution for cause can be for any bias a judge may have in the case, such as an association with a party (family, friendship or even stock ownership), having made vocal comments in the past on the topic at trial, etc. \n\nThe right of substitution with cause does not have a limitation on the number of times it may be called for, such that parties may exercise the right until they find a neutral judge. Substitution with cause may be moved for at any time after a party realizes a bias exists. However many jurisdictions require the right be exercised within a certain time after the bias has been discovered by a party or else the right will be waived, often 30–60 days.\n\nThis right rarely must be exercised by parties, as judges will usually raise the bias and recuse him or herself from a case before a party may even have known of the conflict of interest. \n\nThe right of substitution without cause is only applicable in some US States and not in the federal court system. It is uncommon outside the United States. This right may only be used once per case whereas the right of substitution for cause may be used until a neutral judge can be found.\n\nSubstitution without cause must be moved for prior to the first order by a judge. It can therefore be moved for in civil court after complaints and answers have been filed but prior to the first order, often a scheduling order for discovery procedure. In criminal or juvenile courts the right may be exercised after arraignment or indictment but before a preliminary hearing. Sometimes the motion must be made a certain number of days before the \"prelim\" or scheduling order is held.\n\n"}
{"id": "43635316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43635316", "title": "Telecommunications Act 1997", "text": "Telecommunications Act 1997\n\nThe Telecommunications Act 1997 is an act of law in the Commonwealth of Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5929065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5929065", "title": "Therapeutic jurisprudence", "text": "Therapeutic jurisprudence\n\nTherapeutic jurisprudence (\"TJ\") studies law as a social force (or agent) which inevitably gives rise to unintended consequences, which may be either beneficial (therapeutic) or harmful (anti-therapeutic). These consequences flow from the operation of legal rules or legal procedures—or from the behavior of legal actors (such as lawyers and judges). TJ researchers and practitioners typically make use of social science methods and data to study the extent to which a legal rule or practice affects the psychological well-being of the people it affects, and then explore ways in which anti-therapeutic consequences can be reduced, and therapeutic consequences enhanced, without breaching due process requirements.\n\nThe term was first used by Professor David Wexler, of the University of Arizona Rogers College of Law and University of Puerto Rico School of Law, in a paper delivered to the National Institute of Mental Health in 1987. Constance Backhouse, a leading legal historian from Canada, has published a biography of Wexler and his work. Along with Professor Bruce Winick of the University of Miami School of Law, who developed the area with Wexler, these law professors suggested the need for a new perspective, TJ, to study the extent to which substantive rules, legal procedures, and the role of legal actors (lawyers and judges primarily) produce therapeutic or antitherapeutic consequences for individuals involved in the legal process. \nIn the early 90’s, legal scholars began to use the term when discussing mental health law, including Wexler in his 1990 book Therapeutic Jurisprudence: The Law as a Therapeutic Agent, and Wexler and Winick in their 1991 book, \"Essays in Therapeutic Jurisprudence\". The TJ Approach soon spread beyond mental health law to include TJ work in criminal law, family and juvenile law, health law, tort law, contracts and commercial law, trusts and estates law, disability law, constitutional law, evidence law, and legal profession. In short, TJ became a mental health approach to law generally.\n\nThe approach was soon applied to the way various legal actors—judges, lawyers, police officers, and psychologists and criminal justice professionals—play their roles, suggesting ways of doing so that would diminish unintended antitherapeutic consequences and increase the psychological well-being of those who come into contact with these legal figures. In 1999 in a Notre Dame Law Review article TJ was applied to drug treatment courts (DTC) for the first time and the authors asserted that DTCs were TJ in action and that TJ provided the jurisprudential underpinnings of DTCs. TJ has emerged as the theoretical foundation for the increasing number of \"problem-solving courts\" that have transformed the role of the judiciary. These include, in addition to DTCs, domestic violence courts, mental health courts, re-entry courts, teen courts, and community courts.\n\nSome countries embraced the TJ movement more than others: particularly the United States where it originated, as well as Canada, Australia and New Zealand, with England slower until recently, while nevertheless developing some problem-solving courts. More recently, TJ concepts have entered into the systems of various other countries, such as Israel, Pakistan, India, and Japan. Now, the field is fully international and robust, as evidenced by the recent launch of the International Society for Therapeutic Jurisprudence, a society with a comprehensive and authoritative website.\n\nTherapeutic Jurisprudence also has been applied in an effort to reframe the role of the lawyer. It envisions lawyers practicing with an ethic of care and heightened interpersonal skills, who value the psychological well being of their clients as well as their legal rights and interests, and to actively seek to prevent legal problems through creative drafting and problem-solving approaches. TJ also has begun to transform legal education, in particular clinical legal education.\n\nTraditionally, TJ was closely associated with problem-solving courts, such as drug treatment courts, because such courts were designed to invite the use of TJ practices (such as procedural justice, judge-client personal interaction, demonstration of empathy, active listening, and the like). Many desire the expansion of problem-solving courts, but for a number of reasons, especially economic ones, expansion on a large scale seems unlikely; in fact, in some jurisdictions, economic factors have even led to the elimination of such courts. For these and other reasons, a current interest on the part of many TJ scholars and proponents is to \"mainstream\" TJ—that is, to try to apply TJ practices and principles in \"ordinary\" courts, especially in criminal, juvenile, and perhaps family matters.\n\nIn order to mainstream TJ, a first analytical step is to see to what extent existing provisions of current codes are \"friendly\"to TJ—that is, whether their legal structure is sufficient to permit the introduction of TJ practices. If so, educational programs should be instituted to discuss how the law may be implemented in a more therapeutic manner. If not, a discussion would be necessary about the desirability and feasibility of legal reform. The analytical methodology in use here employs the metaphor of \"wine\" and \"bottles\", where the TJ practices and techniques are the wine and the governing legal structures are the bottles. The mainstreaming project is facilitated by a Blog entitled \"Therapeutic Jurisprudence in the Mainstream\".\n\nTherapeutic jurisprudence has been described as a subset of legal psychology, meaning the scientific study of mind and behavior as it affects or is affected by the law. As well, the term psychological jurisprudence has been used to describe study of the law as it is affected by and affects mind and behavior. Another related concept is restorative justice. The fields of forensic psychology and forensic psychiatry also operate at the juncture of law and the mind.\n\nThe idea that the law can have a therapeutic role should not be confused with any idea that psychological therapies should be attempted to be used for legal ends (such as coercion) rather than clinically for clinical reasons. TJ theorists have also warned against the legal system uncritically accepting psychological experts and theories, and to not allow legal issues to masquerade as clinical ones if they are not.\n\nComing from the opposite direction, a related approach now dubbed 'jurisprudent psychology' (originally therapy) looks at whether psychological interventions are conducted fairly and consistently with legal concepts of justice.\n\nTherapeutic jurisprudence is also linked to the positive criminology perspective, which is a conceptual approach to criminology that places an emphasis on social inclusion and on forces at individual, group, social and spiritual levels that are associated with the limiting of crime.\n\n"}
{"id": "145173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145173", "title": "Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981", "text": "Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981\n\nThe Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 is an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom implemented to comply with European Council Directive 2009/147/EC on the conservation of wild birds. In short, the act gives protection to native species (especially those at threat), controls the release of non-native species, enhances the protection of Sites of Special Scientific Interest and builds upon the rights of way rules in the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949. The Act is split into 4 parts covering 74 sections; it also includes 17 schedules.\n\nThe legislation has strength; few amendments have been made to it, and it has acted as a foundation for later legislation to build upon. The compulsory 5 year review of schedules 5 and 8 make it dynamic in terms of the species which it protects.\n\nThe Wild Birds Protection Act 1902 (2 Edw 7 c. 6) was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, given the royal assent on 22 July 1902 and repealed in 1954.\n\nIt provided that where any person was convicted of an offence against the Wild Birds Protection Acts 1880 to 1896 (the 1880, 1881, 1894 and 1896 Acts), the court was empowered to dispose of any bird or bird's egg in respect of which the offence had been committed.\n\nThe Act was repealed and replaced by the Protection of Birds Act 1954. Bird Sanctuary Orders (BSOs) under this Act were replaced by Areas of Special Protection (AoSPs) under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981.\n\nThe 1979 Bern Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats covered the natural heritage of Europe, as well as in some African countries. It encouraged European co-operation in protecting natural habitats; and the conservation of flora and fauna, including migratory species and particularly endangered species.\n\nThe convention became open for signature on 19 September 1979 as a binding international legal instrument; it came into force on 1 June 1982. The UK ratified the convention and adopted the European Directive on the Conservation of Wild Birds (among other directives).\n\nEuropean Directive 79/409/EC on the Conservation of Wild Birds was adopted on 2 April 1979. The main provisions included: protection of vulnerable species; classification of Special Protection Areas, protection for all wild birds; and restrictions on killing/selling/keeping wild birds.\n\nFrom 1981 several acts have passed as UK legislation to comply with the European Directive on the Conservation. The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 strengthened protection of SSSIs introduced by the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949. The pre-dated acts:\n\n1982- The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 was implemented.\n\n1985- The UK ratified the Bonn Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (1979). Adopted in Bonn, Germany in 1979 and coming into force in 1985, the Bonn Convention worked to conserve migratory species and their habitats. Listed in Appendix I are species which are endangered, Appendix II contains species which would benefit from international cooperation.\n\nAppendix 1 migratory species listed in the convention were amended into the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981.\n\nFurther UK legislation to comply with the European Directive on the Conservation include:\n\nPart I includes sections 1 to 27 of the Act.\nThe legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart II includes sections 28 to 52 of the Act.\nThe legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nPart III includes sections 53 to 66 of the Act.\nBuilding on the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949 which required local authorities to draw up maps defining public rights of way.\n\n\n\n\nPart IV includes sections 67 to 74 of the Act.\nThe legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\nThe Act contains 17 schedules.\n\nSchedules 1 to 10 relate to powers under the \"Wildlife\" part of the Act. Schedule 1 lists over forty species of birds that are protected by special penalties. Schedule 2 lists Huntable birds and their close seasons.\n\nSchedules 11 to 13 relate to powers under Part II of the Act\n\nSchedules 14 to 16 relate to powers under Part III of the Act\n\nSchedule 17 lists previous legislation that was repealed in favour of this Act.\n\nThere have been a few simple amendments to the Wildlife and Countryside Act, such as word changes, increase in fines, etc.\nEvery 5 years the JNCC coordinates a compulsory review of schedules 5 and 8 to add new species that may need protection.\n\nA secretary of state can add or remove species at any time.\n\n1985- Makes it necessary for local authorities to use Countryside Commission guidelines in deciding whether area with natural beauty are important to conserve. Amendments were made to SSSI documentation, notification periods and maintenance of registers.\n\n1991- Amendment making it an offence to knowingly cause or permit to cause actions listed in sections 5 and 11.\n\n1995- Restricts licenses issued to control wild birds in order to reduce damage to crops, livestock, etc.\n\n1998- Variation of schedules 5 and 8; for example, Flamingo Moss (Desmatodon cernuus) was added to schedule 8 as well as 17 other species.\n\n1999- Variation of schedule 9; several species of deer were added to schedule 9.\n\n2004- Minor amendments of various words.\n\n1990- The Environmental Protection Act 1990 established English Nature and the Joint Nature Conservation Committee. JNCC made responsible for producing guidelines for SSSI selection.\n\n1994- Conservation Regulations 1994. Built on Part I protecting habitats and species by implementing the requirement to assess plans/projects that will impact on European Protected Species.\n\n2000- The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 strengthened protection of SSSIs; by increased English Nature's enforcement power (allowed to combat neglect, prevent damaging activity, make public bodies responsible for conservation and enhancement of SSSIs) and increasing penalties for damage to a maximum of £20,000 per offence (along with court power to order restoration if damage occurs).\n\nImproved public rights of way giving people access to mountain, moor, heath, down and registered common land.\n\n2006- The Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006 merged English Nature and the Countryside Agency to create Natural England. Introduced new offences involving the intentional and reckless damage of SSSIs.\n\n2009- The Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 allowed the creation of marine conservation zones and with the consent of the secretary of state, the creation of SSSIs below mean low water mark.\n\n2011- The Wildlife and Natural Environment (Scotland) Act 2011 made some major amendments with regard to control of non-native species, the protection of birds, protection of hares and rabbits and associated poaching.\n\nAs well as being a regulator of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, Natural England acts as an advisor (to individuals, companies, government, etc.) in relation to nature conservation. Additionally Natural England helps with land management through grants, projects and information.\n\nLegally responsible for Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) and enforce law when necessary. Damage, destruction or disturbance of SSSI habitats and features can lead to the following actions by Natural England:\n\n\nSimilar responsibilities to Natural England, but responsible in Wales and Scotland.\n\nWithin the police there are several aspects to regulating wildlife crime; intelligence, enforcement and prevention.\n\nThe police are responsible for enforcing part I of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, often advised by Natural England and will investigate wildlife offences; usually performed by wildlife crime officers (WCOs).\n\nThe National Wildlife Crime Unit (NWCU) is a law enforcement unit which helps agencies with enforcement. Wildlife crime investigations, statistics and intelligence are provided.\n\nThe Environment Agency deal with reports from the public in relation to wildlife crime; under duties to prosecute environmental crimes, offences such as damage to habitats and wildlife are included. The EA work closely with the RSPB and wildlife crime officers.\n\nLocal authorities (e.g. Southampton City Council) are responsible for regulating public rights of way and enforcing rights of way legislation. Issues such as obstructions and misleading signs are usually reported by members of the public and then are dealt with by the local authority.\n\n\n\n\n\nTried with regards to each separate animal/site involved. If multiple organisms or sites are involved then defendant tried per animal/site involved:\n\n\nExemptions to Part 1- Wildlife\n\nThere are various exemptions applied to part one providing protection for wildlife, thus no lawful act or offence will be committed, if:\n\n\nAll sick and injured birds and animals which are being cared for must be registered with DEFRA.\n\n\nProvided below is a list - probably incomplete - of documents modifying the W&C Act 1981.\n\n\n"}
