{"id": "25360911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25360911", "title": "Abhinaya (actress)", "text": "Abhinaya (actress)\n\nAbhinaya is an Indian film actress and model. She is both hearing and speech impaired. She made her acting debut in \"Naadodigal\" (2009) and went on to reprise the role in its Telugu and Kannada remakes.\n\nAbhinaya was spotted by director Samuthirakani from an ad agency's portfolio while he was on the lookout for a fresh face for his movie uu8. The success of \"Naadodigal\" and critical acclaim for Abhinaya's performance led him to cast her in the Telugu remake \"Shambo Shiva Shambo\", while she was signed to play the same role in its Kannada remake \"Hudugaru\" as well. She won two Filmfare Awards for her performances in \"Naadodigal\" and \"Shambo Shiva Shambo\" the following year. She was cast in an important role in \"Easan\" (2010) directed by Sasikumar. In 2011, A. R. Murugadoss signed her to play a supporting role alongside Suriya in the film \"7aam Arivu\".\n\nIn 2012, she had three Telugu releases. In \"Dammu\" and \"Dhamarukam\" she played the sister of Jr. NTR's and Nagarjuna's characters, respectively, while in \"Genius\" she played a Muslim character. That year she also got her first lead role in the Telugu film \"Chandrudu\" opposite Krishnudu but the film's release has been delayed. She was seen in minor supporting roles as part of an ensemble cast in the Telugu family drama \"Seethamma Vaakitlo Sirimalle Chettu\" (2013) and the Tamil action masala films \"Veeram\" (2014) and Hari's \"Poojai\". \"The Reporter\", the first Malayalam film, Abhinaya had signed, released after long delays in 2015. That year also saw her making her Bollywood debut in R. Balki's \"Shamitabh\" in a short role.\n\nAmong her upcoming films are \"Vizhithiru\", in which she is playing a radio jockey, and \"Mela Thalam\".\n"}
{"id": "1817986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817986", "title": "Advertising campaign", "text": "Advertising campaign\n\nAn advertising campaign is a series of advertisement messages that share a single idea and theme which make up an integrated marketing communication (IMC). An IMC is a platform in which a group of people can group their ideas, beliefs, and concepts into one large media base. Advertising campaigns utilize diverse media channels over a particular time frame and target identified audiences. \n\nThe campaign theme is the central message that will be received in the promotional activities and is the prime focus of advertising campaign, as it sets the motif for the series of individual advertisements and other marketing communications that will be used. The campaign themes are usually produced with the objective of being used for a significant period but many of them are temporal due to factors like being not effective or market conditions, competition and marketing mix.\n\nAdvertising campaigns are built to accomplish a particular objective or a set of objectives. Such objectives usually include establishing a brand, raising brand awareness, aggrandizing the rate of conversions/sales. The rate of success or failure in accomplishing these goals is reckoned via effectiveness measures. There are 5 key points at which an advertising campaign must consider to ensure an effective campaign. These points are, integrated marketing communications, media channels, positioning, the communications process diagram and touch points.\n\nIntegrated marketing communication (IMC) is a conceptual approach used by the majority of organizations to develop a strategic plan on how they are going to broadcast their marketing and advertising campaigns. Recently there has been a shift in the way marketers and advertisers interact with their consumers and now see it as a conversation between Advertising/ Marketing teams and consumers. IMC has emerged as a key strategy for organizations to manage customer experiences in the digital age. The more traditional advertising practices such as newspapers, billboards, and magazines are still used but fail to have the same effect now as they did in previous years.\n\nThe importance of the IMC is to make the marketing process seamless for both the brand and the consumer. IMC attempts to meld all aspects of marketing into one cohesive piece. This includes sales promotion, advertising, public relations, direct marketing, and social media. The entire point of IMC is to have all of these aspects of marketing work together as a unified force. This can be done through methods, channels, and activities all while using a media platform. The end goal of IMC is to get the brands message across to consumers in the most convenient way possible. \n\nAdvantages of using IMC are that it has the ability to communicate the same message through several channels to create brand awareness. IMC is the most cost-effective solution when compared to mass media advertising to interact with target consumers on a personal level. IMC also benefits small businesses, as they are able to submerge their consumers with communication of various kinds in a way that pushes them through the research and buying stages creating a relationship and dialogue with their new customer. Popular and obvious examples of IMC put into action are the likes of direct marketing to the consumer that the organisation already has a knowledge that the person is interested in the brand by gathering personal information about them from when they previously shopped there and then sending mail, emails, texts and other direct communication with the person. In-store sales promotions are tactics such as ‘30% off’ sales or offering loyalty cards to consumers to build a relationship. Television and radio advertisement are also a form of advertising strategy derived from IMC. All of the components of IMC play an important role and a company may or may not choose to implement any of the integration strategies\n\nMedia channels, also known as, marketing communications channels, are used to create a connection with the target consumer. Traditional methods of communication with the consumer include newspapers, magazines, Radio, television, billboards, telephone, post and door to door sales. These are just a few of the historically traditional methods.\n\nAlong with traditional media channels, comes new and upcoming media channels. Social media has begun to play a very large role in the way media and marketing intermingle to reach a consumer base. Social media has the power to reach a wider audience. Depending on the age group and demographic, social media can influence a company's overall image. Using social media as a marketing tool has become a widely popular method for branding. A brand has the chance to create an entire social media presence based around their own specific targeted community. \n\nWith advancements in digital communications channels, marketing communications allow for the possibility of two-way communications where an immediate consumer response can be elicited. Digital communications tools include: websites, blogs, social media, email, mobile, and search engines as a few examples. It is important for an advertising campaign to carefully select channels based on where their target consumer spends time to ensure market and advertising efforts are maximized.\n\nIn the rapidly changing marketing and advertising environment, exposure to certain consumer groups and target audiences through traditional media channels has blurred. These traditional media channels are defined as print, broadcast, out-of-home and direct mail. The introduction of various new modern-day media channels has altered their traditional advantages and disadvantages. It is imperative to the effectiveness of the Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC) strategy that exposure to certain demographics, consumer groups and target audiences is anticipated to provide clarity, consistency, and maximum communications impact.\n\nPrint media is mainly defined as newspapers and magazines. With the transition in last decade [2006 – 2016] to digital information on phones, computers and tablets, the demographic that still are exposed to traditional print media is going to be older. It is also estimated that there will be a reduction of print material in coming years. This has to be taken into account by the advertisers and in some cases, they could use this to their advantage. Newspapers advantages would be that it is low cost, timely, reader controls exposure and has moderate coverage to the older generations in western society. Disadvantages would obviously be the aging demographic, short life, clutter and low attention-getting capabilities. Magazines are similar in some cases but have defined differences as they are a niche product increasing segmentation potential; they also have high informational content and longevity. Disadvantages are they are visual only, lack of flexibility and a long lead time for advertisement placement.\n\nTraditional broadcast media’s primary platforms are television and radio. These are still relatively prominent in modern-day society, but with the emergence of online content such as YouTube, Instagram and Vine it would difficult to anticipate where the market is headed in the next decade. Televisions advantages are that it has mass coverage, high reach, quality reputation, low post per exposure and impacts human senses. Disadvantages would be that it has low selectivity, short message life and high production costs. Alternatively, radio offers flexibility, high frequency and low advertising & production costs. Disadvantages to radio are that its audio only, low attention-getting and short message.\n\nOut-of-home (OOH) media a broad marketing concept that is no longer relegated to large, static billboards on the side of motorways. More current and innovative approaches to OOH media range from street furniture to aerial blimps. Due to the constant and contemporary nature of the outdoors there will always be new ways in which a campaign can revitalize this media channel. Advantages would be the accessibility and reach, geographic flexibility and relatively low cost. Disadvantages to OOH media are that it has a short life, difficult to measure / control and it can convey poor brand image.\n\nDirect mail is classified as messages sent directly to consumers through the mail delivery service. One of the more ‘dated’ media channels and in the modern day has very little advantages, other than it is highly selective and has high information content. Disadvantages are that it promotes a poor brand image – junk mail and that it has a high cost to contact ratio.\n\nWhen an organisation begins to construct their advertising campaign they need to research each and every aspect of their target market and target consumer. The target consumer is the person or group of people who is most likely to buy from an organisation, he is also called 'potential customer'. A target consumer can be categorized by several key characteristics; Gender, age, occupation, marital status, geographical location, behavioral, level of income and education to name the main factors. This process is called segmenting customers on the basis of demographics.\n\nGender is simply whether a person is male or female. Age is usually broken up into bracketed intervals of ten or so years, for example, a person's age between 15–25 years old. By understanding which age bracket the target market falls into the advertisers can position their efforts accordingly. Occupation is also known as a profession and refers to what a person does for a living; this could be a particular job, student, unemployed etc. A person’s marital status defines whether they are married or unmarried. Geographical location is a broad term specifying a particular area or place within a given country, state/ city, suburb or street as some examples. Income refers to how much money a person is earning annually which can help identify how much money they have left over after expenses to potential spend on a brand. The final factor to explain is education, whether a person went to school or not, what school they attended, what standard of education they have, diplomas, certificates, graduate, degrees, masters, Ph.D. or other forms of defining educational factors. Knowing this information can help an advertiser understand their target markets level of thinking to help adapt the advertising campaign to be understood by the given target consumer/s.\n\nFor a business to successfully find the appropriate Target Market for their products or services, it is important that they segment the market to better decide which customers to target. This is best done when the market is segmented into the four following areas: geographic, demographic, psychographic and behavioural.\n\nGeographic segmentation involves the market being divided into different nations, regions, states, counties, cities, or neighbourhoods. Segmenting the Target market geographically is effective as different areas have different needs, which can be affected by weather, fashion, etc.\n\nDemographic segmentation separates the market into groups according to age, gender, family size, income, occupation, education, religion, nationality, and race. It is important to note that this is the easiest and least expensive way to segment the market, as the research has already been done.\n\nPsychographic segmentation is the process of markets being divided into groups based on social class, personality characteristics, and values.\n\nBehavioural segmentation “divides a market into groups based on consumer knowledge, attitude, use, or response to a product” (Krause, T. 2007). This is believed to be the best starting point, when a business is building a market segment. The behavioural segment is important because it focuses on why consumers consume products. For example, during Father’s day and Mother’s day, flowers were promoted due to the heavy demand of flowers during these holidays.\n\nDefining the target market helps businesses and individuals design a marketing campaign. This in turns helps businesses/ individuals avoid waste and get their advertisements to likely customers. While attempting to find the correct target market it is important to focus on specific groups of individuals that will benefit from your product. By marketing to specific groups of individuals that specifically relate to the product, businesses and individuals will more quickly and efficiently find those who will purchase the product. Businesses and individuals that monitor their existing data (customer and sales data) will find it easier to define their target market, and surveying existing customers will assist in finding more customers. Avoiding inefficiencies when finding a target market is equally as important. Wasting time and money advertising to a large group of potential customers is inefficient if only a handful become customers. A focused plan that reaches a tiny audience can work out well if they’re already interested in what you’re selling. Over time target markets can change. People interested today might not be interested tomorrow, and those not interested in the present time, might become interested over time. Analysing sales data and customer information helps businesses and individuals understand when their target market is increasing or decreasing.\n\nThere are many advantages that are associated with finding your Target Market. One advantage is the “ability to offer the right product” (Suttle. R. 2016) through knowing the age and needs of the customer willing to purchase the item. Another advantage of Target Marketing assists businesses in understanding what price the customer will pay for the products or service. Businesses are also more efficient and effective at advertising their product, because they “reach the right consumers with messages that are more applicable” (Suttle. R. 2016).\n\nHowever, there are several disadvantages that can be associated with Target Marketing. Firstly, finding your Target Market is expensive. Often businesses conduct primary research to find whom their Target Market is, which usually involves hiring a research agency, which can cost “tens of thousands of dollars” (Suttle, R. 2016). Finding ones Target Market is also time-consuming, as it often “requires a considerable amount of time to identify a target audience” (Suttle, R. 2016). Also focusing on finding your Target Market can make you overlook other customers that are interested in your product. Businesses/ Individuals may find that their ‘average customer’ might not include those that fall just outside of the average customers “demographics” (Suttle, R. 2016), which will limit the sale of their products. The last disadvantage to note is the ethical ramifications that are associated with Target Marketing. An example of this would be a “beer company that may target less educated, poorer people with larger-sized bottles” (Suttle, R. 2016).\n\nIn advertising various brands compete to overtake the perceptual mapping in a consumers mind. Everyday consumers view advertising and rank particular brands compared to their competitors. Individuals rank these specific brands in an order of what is most important to them. For example, a person may compare brands of cars based on how sporty they think they look, affordability, practicality and classiness. How one person perceives a brand is different to another but is largely left to the advertising campaign to manipulate and create the perception that they want you to envision as the consumer. \n\nPositioning is an important marketing concept that businesses implement to market their products or services. The positioning concept focuses on creating an image that will best attract the intended audience. Businesses that implement the positioning concept focus on promotion, price, placement and product. When the positioning concept is effective and productive it elevates the marketing efforts made by a business, and assists the buyer in purchasing the product.\n\nThe positioning process is imperative in marketing because of the specific level of consumer-based recognition is involved. A company must create a trademark brand for themselves in order to be recognizable by a broad range of consumers. For example, a fast food restaurant positions itself as fast, cheap, and delicious. They are playing upon their strengths and most visible characteristics. On the other hand a luxury car brand will position its brand as a stylish and expensive platform because they want to target a specific brand very different than the fast food brand. \n\nFor the positioning concept to be effective one must focus on the concepts of promotion, price, place and product.\n\nThere are three basic objectives of promotion, which include: presenting product information to targeted business customers and consumers, increase demand among the target market, and differentiating a product and creating a brand identity. Tools that can be used to achieve these objectives are advertising, public relations, personal selling, direct marketing, and sales promotion.\n\nPrice of an object is crucial in the concept of positioning. Adjusting or decreasing the product price has a profound impact on the sales of the product, and should complement the other parts of the positioning concept. The price needs to ensure survival, increase profit, generate survival, gain market shares, and establish an appropriate image.\n\nPositioning a product is essential in the positioning concept. It is the process marketers use to communicate their products’ attributes to the intended target market. In order for products to be successful businesses must focus on the customer needs, competitive pressures, available communication channels and carefully crafted key messages.\n\nProduct Positioning presents several advantages in the advertising campaign, and to the businesses/ individuals that implement it. Positioning connects with superior aspects of a product and matches “them with consumers more effectively than competitors” (Jaideep, S. 2016). Positioning can also help businesses or individuals realise the consumer’s expectations of the product/s they are willing to purchase from them. Positioning a product reinforces the companies name, product and brand. It also makes the brand popular and strengthens customer loyalty. Product benefits to customers are better advertised through positioning the product, which results in more interest and attention of consumers. This also attracts different types of consumers as products posse’s different benefits that attract different groups of consumers, for example: a shoe that is advertised for playing sports, going for walks, hiking and casual wear will attract different groups of consumers. Another advantage of positioning is the competitive strength it gives to businesses/ individuals and their products, introducing new products successfully to the market and communicating new and varied features that are added to a product later on.\n\nThe Communication of processes diagram refers to the order of operation an advertising campaign pieces together the flow of communication between a given organisation and the consumer. The diagram usually flows left to right (unless shown in a circular array) starting with the source. An advertising campaign uses the communication process diagram to ensure all the appropriate steps of communication are being taken in order.\n\nThe source is the person or organisation that has a message they want to share with potential consumers. An example of this is Vodafone wanting to tell their consumers and new consumers of a new monthly plan.\n\nThe diagram then moves on to encoding which consists of the organisation putting messages, thoughts and ideas into a symbolic form that be interpreted by the target consumer using symbols or words.\n\nThe third stage in the diagram is channel message. This occurs when the information or meaning the source wants to convoy, is put into a form to easily be transmitted to the targeted audience. This also includes the method that communication gets from the source to the receiver. Examples of this is Vodafone advertising on TV, bus stops and university campuses as students may be the intended consumer for the new plan.\n\nDecoding is the processes that the viewer interprets the message that the source sent. Obviously it is up to the source to ensure that the message encoded well enough so that it is received as intended.\n\nThe receiver is also known as the viewer or potential consumer. This is the person who interprets the source message through channeling whether they are the intended target audience or not. Every day we interpret different advertisements even if we are not the target audience for that advertisement.\n\nIn between these steps there are external factors acting as distractions, these factors are called noise. Noise distorts the way the message gets to the intended target audience. These distractions are from all other forms of advertising and communication from every other person or organisation. Examples of noise are State of mind, unfamiliar language, unclear message, Values, Attitudes, Perceptions, Culture and Knowledge of similar products or services to name a few forms of noise.\n\nFinally there is the response or feedback. This is the receiver’s reaction to the communication of message and the way they understood it. Feedback relates to the way sales react as well as the interest or questions that arise in relation to the message put out.\n\nWhen considering touch points in an advertising campaign a brand looks Multisensory touch points. These touch points help the brand to develop a point of contact between themselves and the consumer. Modern day advancements in various forms of technology have made it easier for consumers to engage with brands in numerous ways. The most successful touch points are those that create value in the consumer and brands relationship. Common examples of touch points include social media links, QR codes, person handing out flyers about a particular brand, billboards, web sites and various other methods that connect the brand and consumer.\n\nMulti sensory touch points are subconscious yet helps use to recognise brands through characteristic identified through human sensors. These characteristics could be shape, colour, textures, sounds, smell or tastes associated with a given brand. It is important for an advertising campaign to consider sensory cues into their campaign as market places continue to become increasingly competitive and crowded. Anyone of the given sensory characteristics may remind a person of the brand they best associate with. A prime example of this is Red Bull who use the colour, shapes and size of their cans to best relate their product to success and winning. A taller can looks like the 1st place podium when placed next to competitors, the design looks like the finish flag in racing representing winning. The opportunity for an advertising campaign to succeed is significantly increased with the use of multi sensory touch points used as a point of difference between brands.\n\nGuerrilla marketing is an advertising strategy which increases brand exposure through the use of unconventional campaigns which initiate social discussion and \"buzz\". This can often be achieved with lower budgets than conventional advertising methods, allowing small and medium-sized businesses the chance to compete against larger competitors. Through unconventional methods, inventiveness and creativity, guerrilla marketing leaves the receiver with a long lasting impression of the brand as most guerrilla marketing campaigns target the receivers at a personal level, taking them by surprise and may incorporate an element of shock. Guerrilla marketing is typically executed exclusively in public places, including streets, parks, shopping centres etc., to ensure maximum audience resulting in further discussion on social media.\n\nGuerrilla marketing is the term used for several types of marketing categories including street marketing, ambient marketing, presence marketing, alternative marketing, experimental marketing, grassroots marketing, wild posting, guerrilla projection advertising, undercover marketing and astroturfing.\n\nJay Conrad Levinson coined the term \"Guerrilla Marketing\" with his 1984 book of the same name. Through the enhancement of technology and common use of internet and mobile phones, marketing communication has become more affordable and guerrilla marketing is on the rise, allowing the spread of newsworthy guerrilla campaigns.\n\nWhen establishing a guerrilla marketing strategy, there are seven elements to a clear and logical approach. Firstly, write a statement that identifies the purpose of the strategy. Secondly define how the purpose will be achieved concentrating on the key advantages. Next Levinson (1989) suggests writing a descriptive summary on the target market or consumers. The fourth element is to establish a statement that itemizes the marketing tools and methods planning to be used in the strategy (for example, radio advertising during 6.30am – 9am on weekday mornings or window displays that are regularly updated). The fifth step is to create a statement which positions the brand/product/company in the market. Define the brands characteristics and give it an identity is the sixth element. Lastly, clearly identify a budget which will be put solely towards marketing going forward.\n\nFor a successful overall guerrilla marketing campaign, combine the above steps with seven winning actions. These seven principles are commitment – stick to the marketing plan without changing it; investment – appreciate that marketing is an investment, consistency – ensure the marketing message and strategy remains consistent across all forms of, confidence – show confidence in the commitment to the guerrilla marketing strategy, patience – time and dedication to the strategy, assortment – incorporate different methods of advertising and marketing for optimum results, and subsequent – build customer loyalty and retention though follow up marketing post-sale.\n\nLevinson suggests guerrilla marketing tactics were initiated to enable small businesses with limited financial resources to gain an upper hand on the corporate giants who had unlimited budgets and resources at their disposal. Large companies cottoned on to the success of guerrilla marketing and have had hundreds of effective attention grabbing campaigns using the strategies originally designed for smaller businesses with minimal marketing budgets.\n\nNon-traditional, unconventional and shocking campaigns are highly successful in obtaining media coverage and therefore brand awareness, albeit good or bad media attention. However, like most marketing strategies a bad campaign can backfire and damage profits and sales. Undercover marketing and astroturfing are two type of guerrilla marketing that are deemed as risky and can be detrimental to the company.\n\n“Advertising can be dated back to 4000 BC where Egyptians used papyrus to make sales messages and wall posters. Traditional advertising and marketing slowly developed over the centuries but never bloomed until early 1900s” (\"What Is Guerrilla Marketing?\", 2010). Guerrilla marketing are relatively simple, use tactics to advertise on a very small budget. It is to make a campaign that is “shocking, funny, unique, outrageous, clever and creative that people can’t stop talking about it” (Uk essays, 2016). Guerrilla marketing is different when compared to traditional marketing tactics (Staff, 2016). “Guerrilla marketing means going after conventional goals of profits, sales and growth but doing it by using unconventional means, such as expanding offerings during gloomy economic days to inspire customers to increase the size of each purchase” (Staff, 2016). Guerrilla marketing also suggests that rather than investing money, it is better to “invest time, energy, imagination and knowledge” (Staff, 2016) instead. Guerrilla marketing puts profit as their main priority not sales as their main focal point, this is done to urge the growth of geometrically by enlarging the size of each transactions. This all done through one of the most powerful marketing weapons around, the telephone. Research shows that it will always increases profits and sales. The term “guerrilla first appeared during the war of independence in Spain and Portugal at the beginning of the 19th century it can be translated as battle” (Uk essays, 2016). Even thou guerrilla marketing was aimed for small business; this did not stop bigger business from adopting the same ideology. “Larger business has been using unconventional marketing to complement their advertising campaigns, even then some marketers argue that when bigger business utilize guerrilla marketing tactics, it isn’t true guerrilla” (\"What Is Guerrilla Marketing?\", 2010). The reason being that larger companies have bigger budgets and usually their brands well established. In some cases, it is far riskier for a larger business to do guerrilla marketing tactics. Which can cause problem when their stunts become a flop when compared to smaller business, as they do not run as much risk, as most people will just write it off as another failed stunt. Many methods in guerrilla marketing consist of “graffiti (or reverse graffiti, where a dirty wall is selectively cleaned), interactive displays, intercept encounters in public spaces, flash mobs, or various PR stunts are often used” (\"Guerrilla Marketing | What is Guerrilla Marketing?” 2016).\n\nSmall business use social media as a form of marketing. This Is due to that social media in the 21st century is phenomenon. “Collecting billions of people around the world through a series of status updates, tweets, and other rich media” (\"Guerrilla Marketing Strategies for Small Businesses\", 2013). Social media is a powerful tool in the world of business. Guerrilla marketing strategies and tactics are a great and cost effective way to generate” awareness for your business, products and services. To maximize full potential in your marketing efforts, it’s to blend them with a powerful and robust online marking strategy with a marketing automation software” (\"Guerrilla Marketing Strategies for Small Businesses\", 2013). Which can boost small businesses. Guerrilla tactics consist of instruments that have effects on the efforts. Some instruments are usually there to maximize the surprise effect and some of these instruments mainly cutting advertising costs.” Guerrilla marketing is a way of increasing the number of individuals exposed to the advertising with the cost of campaign. The instrument of diffusion helps to each a wide audience, which causes none or little cost because consumers (viral marketing) or the media (guerrilla PR) pass on the advertising message” (\"Guerrilla Marketing: The Nature of the Concept and Propositions for Further Research\", 2016). Guerrilla campaigns usually implement a free ride approach, this means that to cut their costs and increase the number of recipients simultaneously to maximize the low cost effect. For example, they will try to benefit from placing advertisements on big events e.g. sporting events. Guerrilla marketing was regarded to target existing customers rather than new ones, aiming to increase their engagement with a product and/ or brand. “When selecting audiences for a guerrilla message, a group that is already engaged with the product at some level is the best target; they will be quicker to recognize and respond to creative tactics, and more likely to share the experience with their friends, as social media has become a major feature of the market landscape, guerrilla marketing has shown to be particularly effective online. Consumers who regularly use social media are more likely to share their interactions with guerrilla marketing, and creative advertising can quickly go viral” (\"Guerrilla Marketing | What is Guerrilla Marketing?\", 2016).\n\n"}
{"id": "36096307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36096307", "title": "Akshay Chandra Sharma", "text": "Akshay Chandra Sharma\n\nBorn in a small village of Rajasthan during the rule of British in India. He did his schooling from \"Shree Jain School\" and \"Ummed School\" in Ladnu. When he grew to youth, he was greatly influenced by ideological principles of Mahatma Gandhi, who was the main leader of freedom movements in India during that time. He worked as the principle of Bharatiya Vidya Mandir at Bikaner and established the \"Bharatiya Vidyamandir Shodh Pratisthan\" there. He also established \"Hindi Vidyalaya\" at Ladnu.\n\nHe travelled to many foreign destinations like Switzerland, France, Britain, London on invitation of \"Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan\" to give lectures on \"आज के परिपेक्ष में रामायण\" (\"Credibility of Ramayan in modern times\").\n\n\n\n\nHe was honoured by \"Vivek Sansthan\" with \"Pragya Pujan\" award besides many other awards at literature festivals.\n"}
{"id": "38458035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38458035", "title": "Arguni language", "text": "Arguni language\n\nArguni (Argoeni) is a minor Austronesian language off the north coast of the Bomberai Peninsula.\n\n"}
{"id": "5243868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5243868", "title": "Arvon Foundation", "text": "Arvon Foundation\n\nThe Arvon Foundation is a charitable organisation in the United Kingdom that promotes creative writing. It is based in the Free Word Centre for literature, literacy and free expression in London.\n\nIt was founded by two young poets, John Fairfax and John Moat, in 1968.\n\nArvon runs residential creative writing courses at centres in three locations: Devon, Shropshire and Yorkshire. The courses provide an inspirational space and dedicated time to practise the art of writing.\n\nThe Chief Executive is Ruth Borthwick and the Board of Trustees is chaired by Alistair Burtenshaw and consists of\nPatience Agbabi, \nNii Ayikwei Parkes, \nTony Cohen,\nKate Donaghy, \nMarion Gibbs CBE,\nRobert Hingley, \nSir Andrew Cahn KCMG, \nSophie Rochester,\nMeriel Schindler,\nMichael Symmons Roberts, \nSimon Trewin, \nVirginia Wedgwood,\nAndy Wimble.\n\nPrevious tutors include Willy Russell, Ian McEwan, Andrew Motion, Arnold Wesker, Ted Hughes, Ali Smith, Carol Ann Duffy, Ian Rankin, George Szirtes and Will Self.\n\nArvon also runs residential creative writing courses for under-18s and partnership organisations. Arvon fundraises to ensure that those people who could not afford the full course fee can be offered grants to attend a course.\n\nThe Arvon Foundation used to run the biennial Arvon International Poetry Competition, which was first judged in 1980 by Ted Hughes, Charles Causley, Seamus Heaney and Philip Larkin. In 2010 the judges were Carol Ann Duffy, Elaine Feinstein and Sudeep Sen. As of 2012, they no longer run the competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "3443446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3443446", "title": "Atmananda Krishna Menon", "text": "Atmananda Krishna Menon\n\nŚrĩ Atmananda (December 8, 1883 – May 14, 1959), also referred as Sri Atmananda Krishna Menon, was an Indian sage, guru, and philosopher. He has been described by scholars as a \"neo-Hindu\". His teachings have become a foundation for a spiritual method called the Direct Path.\n\nHe was born as P. Krishna Menon in 1883 at Cherukulathu House, in Peringara, near Tiruvalla, in the state of Travancore, now a part of Kerala.\n\nAfter studying law, he became a Government Advocate and Inspector and District Superintendent of Police and remained in service until 1939.\n\nMeanwhile, his search for a guru led to his meeting Swami Yogananda (not to be confused with Paramahansa Yogananda) briefly in 1913. In 1923, he assumed the name Sri Atmananda and started teaching Jnana Yoga. After retirement from government service, he resided in his family home, \"Anandavadi\" on the river Pampa in Malakara.\n\nHe died at Trivandrum (now known as Thiruvananthapuram) in 1959.\n\nHe published several books including, \"Atma Darshan\" and \"Atma Nirvriti\" in Malayalam (both of which he translated into English), and \"Atmaramam\" (in Malayalam).\n\nAfter his death, the book \"Atmananda Tattwa Samhita\", based on tape-recorded talks between Sri Atmananda and some disciples, was published. In the following years, his eldest son Adwayananda continued his teachings from his home in Anandawadi, Malakkara, near Chengannur, till his death in 2001. A school in his name, Sri Atmananda Memorial School, was founded in 1987 in Malakkara, and another school of the same name was located in Austin, Texas from 1995 to 2011. When American mythologist Joseph Campbell visited India (1954–1955), his meeting with Krishna Menon has been described as the \"climax of his visit\" to India, and is recounted in his book, \"Baksheesh and Brahman\", and the meditation he was given, \"Where are you between two thoughts?\"\n\nHis teachings have become a foundation for a spiritual method called the Direct Path.\n\n"}
{"id": "40754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40754", "title": "Automatic message exchange", "text": "Automatic message exchange\n\nAutomatic message exchange (AME): In an adaptive high-frequency (HF) radio network, an automated process allowing the transfer of a message from message injection to addressee reception, without human intervention. Through the use of machine-addressable transport guidance information, \"i.e.,\" the message header, the message is automatically routed through an on-line direct connection through single or multiple transmission media.\n\nSource: from Federal Standard 1037C\n"}
{"id": "35268830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35268830", "title": "Bali language (Adamawa)", "text": "Bali language (Adamawa)\n\nBali (also known as \"Bibaali, Maya, Abaali, Ibaale\", or \"Ibaali\") is a Niger–Congo language spoken by 100,000 people () in Demsa, Adamawa, Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "34776464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34776464", "title": "Bilingual memory", "text": "Bilingual memory\n\nBilingualism is the regular use of two fluent languages, and bilinguals are those individuals who need and use two (or more) languages in their everyday lives. A person's bilingual memories are heavily dependent on the person's fluency, the age the second language was acquired, and high language proficiency to both languages. High proficiency provides mental flexibility across all domains of thought and forces them to adopt strategies that accelerate cognitive development. People who are bilingual integrate and organize the information of two languages, which creates advantages in terms of many cognitive abilities, such as intelligence, creativity, analogical reasoning, classification skills, problem solving, learning strategies, and thinking flexibility. \n\nOne of the first researchers on the subject of bilingual memory and representation was linguist Uriel Weinreich. \"Languages in Contact\", an essay published by Weinreich in 1953, proposed a model of bilingual memory organization that made the theoretical distinction between the lexical and conceptual level of representation. Three different types of organizational models were proposed: coordinate, compound, and subordinate, each having a different relationship between the lexical and conceptual levels of representation. In 1954, Ervin and Osgood reformulated Weinreich's compound-coordinate representational model and placed further emphasis on the context of language learning, similar to the encoding specificity principle later proposed by Tulving in the 1970s. In 1984, Potter et al. proposed the hierarchical model of bilingual memory, consisting of two memory structures, the word association model and concept mediation model. The word association model proposes a link between languages at the lexical level while the concept mediation model proposes a direct link between the conceptual representation and the lexical representation in each language. The hierarchical model was later revised by Kroll and Stewart in 1994 to account for linguistic proficiency and direction of translation, since then it has been re-revised.\n\nOne of the processes involved in analyzing which neural regions of the brain are involved in bilingual memory is a subtraction method. Researchers compare what has been impaired with what is functioning regularly. This contrast between the destroyed and intact regions of the brain, aids researchers in discovering the components of language processing. It has been found that under typical circumstances, when multiple languages are lost at the same time, they are usually regained in the same fashion. It is therefore presumed that areas of the brain, which are responsible for processing language, are potentially the same. There have been examples of cases where languages have been restored prior to one another and to a greater degree, but this is fairly uncommon. The techniques allowing researchers to observe brain activity in multilingual patients are conducted whilst the subject is simultaneously performing and processing a language. Research has proposed that the entire production and comprehension of language is most likely regulated and managed by neural pools, whose stations of communication are in the cortical and subcortical regions. It has been shown that there are no grounds on which to assume the existence of distinct cerebral organization of separate languages in the bilingual brain. That is to say, the cerebral regions that are engaged for both languages are the same. Although neurologists have a basic understanding of the underlying neural components and mechanisms of bilingual language, further research is necessary in order to fully understand or conclude any other findings. \nNeuroimaging techniques such as fMRIs have shown that at least four brain areas are involved in bilingual switching: dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, inferior frontal cortex, anterior cingulate, and supramarginal gyrus. It is expected that switching from one language to another should involve different functional processes when compared to the brain of an individual who only speaks one language. However further studies on brain activation during this switching of languages needs to be done.\n\nEpisodic memory is closely related to semantic memory, Tulving created the two categories as a way to distinguish the specific knowledge from the general knowledge. Episodic memory contains the records of unique events which occurred at particular times, particularly Autobiographical memories are stored in episodic memory. It holds the events from personally experienced past, they exist in subjective time and space and using it requires a conscious recollection and a controlled process. Tulving referred to this as \"mental time travel\", and he \"classifies encoding as an event, rather than a process\".\n\nIt is suggested that bilinguals that have better control of their language processing should perform better in episodic than semantic memory tasks. Bilinguals store the input of language exceedingly well, regardless of their intention to learn. Language forms a surface in the progressive retrieval of features of an event (e.g., on College Ave, at Tim Hortons, on Tuesday...), that triggers further forms within the same language serving to guide retrieval. The events, objects, characters, etc. are all cued by linguistic elements that might serve as a series of triggers. This information is highly integrated, the superiority of action memory is due to better episodic integration for action memory (vs verbal); we remember events based on language cues and these cues further solidify the events.\n\nTo test episodic memory researchers usually use items that can be better related to normal everyday life, such as sentences. Language recognition depends somewhat on the retrievability of meaning, but the extent of this dependence is unknown. Retrieval of memories is language-specific, it matches the language spoken at the time. Depending on what language is used what is recalled may be different because a cue can activate many meanings, it is the context that conditions what meaning is considered first, and context can change over language and cultures.\n\nBilinguals also tend to be bicultural, it is known that we filter all of our experiences through culturally shaped scripts. So, those that are bilingual and therefore for the most part bicultural have multiple scripts to draw from, or more than one set of narrative constraints. All experiences imply some sort of narrative structure, and narrative traditions are culturally shaped. They direct our perception of reality and the encoding of memories. Though they may not directly determine their perception of reality, they determine \"how the story is told\" which may be different from \"how it happened\". This shapes memory, as stories that are deemed as worthy to be told are further solidified by the retelling and reliving of the experience.\n\nAutobiographical memory is a type of Episodic memory process which is involved in the recall of one's life experiences and personal events of ones past. Bilinguals have the ability to recall some life experiences in one language, and other events using another. When recalling language information it is important that the language is recalled in the same context as it was encoded. This is referred to as Context-dependent memory Ex. If one who is bilingual were to learn a Spanish song in a Spanish speaking country, and then come back to their native land, they would have difficulty remembering the song. However once they were immersed in a Spanish context again, recall would come with much more ease. Research has shown that autobiographical memories have increased availability in the language they were created in. That is to say, memories are richer and more elaborate when recalled in the language that the event has taken place, rather than the other language available to them. This can also be referred to as the Encoding specificity principle, where memories appear to be encoded in a language-specific manner. Earlier memory events that occur during youth and are encoded in the first and dominant language, are more emotionally charged, have a higher quality of detail and are greater in number than those memories recalled in the second language. It can also be argued that the language that is spoken and recalled more frequently, will have more associations to multiple circumstances and is therefore more likely to be remembered. Problems can arise if a language that comes to mind 'internally' is not the language that is being spoken externally. For example, if someone recalled an event in Spanish, but then reported it in English. This changeover in languages is most likely to do with the content of the memory itself. Evidence has been shown that language-specific recall of information when probed or cued in the matching language, is recalled vividly, and with much more elaboration and detail. It has also been shown that each language that a bilingual possesses, may represent experiences in somewhat different fashions.\n\nWorking memory is an active part of the memory system that temporarily stores and processes information during mental operations. Highly related are the concepts of attention and executive control. A major function of the working memory system is the retention and processing of verbal information. Baddeley's model of working memory suggests the phonological loop, a slave system that is responsible for the rehearsal of verbal information and has been implicated in language acquisition.\n\nMeasures of verbal working memory are predictive of proficiency in a second language and working memory capacity is strongly correlated with first and second language abilities. Despite these correlations, research into the effects of bilingualism on working memory have been largely inconclusive. Bilingual performance on working memory tasks can be affected by language dominance, language proficiency, and the nature of the task, variables which can be difficult to control and assess. However, most recent research suggests that there are no differences between monolingual and bilingual individuals in regards to working memory performance, although more research is still required to make any conclusive claims. The evidence suggests that working memory performance has a stronger relationship with general linguistic proficiency than it does with the acquisition of a second language. It has also been observed that there are no significant cross-language differences within bilinguals, providing further support for the hypothesis that working memory is not language specific. Bilingual speakers are, however, more accurate in assessing their metalinguistic reading and working memory abilities compared to monolingual speakers.\n\nResearch has found that there are cross-linguistic differences on a short-term memory test known as the digit-span task. For example, Chinese speakers as compared to English speakers had a greater digit span. An explanation of this observation is that digits in English take longer to say and subvocally rehearse in the phonological loop, a component of Baddely's model of working memory. It has been suggested that because memory for short words is better than for long words, a phenomenon known as the \"word-length effect\", that there are cross-linguistic differences on the digit span task. This difference has also been observed in Welsh-English bilinguals, who rated themselves as more proficient in Welsh but had a greater digit span in English because of the shorter digit names. However, research has suggested that familiarity and long-term memory may play an important role and that differences are not strictly the result of subvocal rehearsal rates.\n\nOur thoughts often occur as the inner speech of our natural language. Inner speech is used for such things as rehearsing facts, having a mental conversation with oneself, and counting, among many others. Being fluent in more than one language can affect inner speech in multiple ways. Studies have revealed that fluent bilinguals use their natural language to mentally represent exact numbers, however, non-numerical facts are retrieved in either language with equal ease. Bilingual individuals report feeling and acting different when in different linguistic mindsets and are capable of switching between them for the strategic purpose of activating different (context/language-dependent) information. As perceived language proficiency in a second languages increases, the use of that second language for inner speech becomes more habitual. As well, it has been reported that bilinguals who suffer from psychosis experience hallucinations or reduced linguistic competence in only one language.\n\nSemantic memory is a term coined by Tulving and is closely related to episodic memory, it is a kind of mental dictionary containing all the attributes of event-free knowledge. It relates to general facts about the world (e.g., the sky is blue, 2+2=4) and it has no concern with time or space. Semantic memory does not require conscious thought, as it generally is automatic; it is not bound, except as interest links themes. It has been suggested that retrieval cues for semantic data are themselves semantic.\n\nRecent studies have shown that knowing a second language extends semantic memory and other cognitive capabilities as they recruit different cognitive operations. It is shown to increase the normal capacity and expose the person to new situations and different ways of organizing thoughts. They learn to incorporate different concepts, and language specific inputs. The finding of a positive bilinguality effect for semantic memory provides support for the role of organization in bilinguality. Bilingualism and monolingualism semantic memory is often tested using word fluency tests, to gauge whether and how well these individuals organize their thoughts. These tests have indicated that the type of material is not necessarily of importance but rather the mental activity is more important. It is also found that the bilingualism effect can be observed more under automatic processing than under deliberate processing.\n\nThere are two predominant models of bilingual memory, the Hierarchical Model and the Concept features model. The Hierarchical Model assumes three linked components: a first language lexicon, a second language lexicon, and a conceptual store containing semantic referents. Links between words in the first language lexicon and their meanings in the underlying conceptual store would be strong for bilinguals. For newer bilinguals links running from the second language lexicon to the conceptual store would be relatively weak, if present at all, the links from the second language lexicon to the first language lexicon would be the strong ones. So the bilingual would translate the word from the second language into the first language and from there access the conceptual store (Cheval to horse to basic idea of a horse vs. cheval to basic idea of a horse). Fluent bilinguals have stronger and more direct links to the conceptual store form both languages. In the Concept Features Model, when words have highly prototypical, concrete referents (desk, juice) the translations in both languages would activate the same set of underlying semantic nodes. In more conceptual and abstract referents (poverty, intelligence) translation equivalents activate different but overlapping sets of semantic nodes.\n\nIn bilingual memory as Colin M. MacLeod found the two translated words (e.g., Horse and Cheval) are not stored as synonyms, they share the same supralinguistic semantic representation in memory (a supralinguistic concept is an abstraction of meaning more primitive than the word itself, it cannot be defined). It is stored in a kind of tag on a language free semantic representation of the world, where the input language is stored as a semantic trace.\n\nIn general a positive effect of bilingualism in semantic memory is more pronounced for older than for younger children. Since bilingual children engage in extensive practice of two languages at an early age, they become better at paying attention to parts of information and at inhibiting other parts. Overall they have better recall and recognition in letter fluency especially when older and more educated, but the more similarity between their two languages lessens the advantage, as when they are very close there is more overlap of information.\n\nMental lexicon refers to the permanent store of words in an individual's memory, and is thought to be organized in a semantic network. This network is related to the spreading activation model purposed by Collins and Loftus, as one word (node) is activated, words that are semantically and lexically related will also be activated. Evidence has been found to support the view that a bilingual individual has the same conceptual system for both of their languages. Dong, Gui, and Macwhinney have demonstrated the convergence of a new language into a preexisting mental lexicon in their article \"Shared and Separate Meanings in the Bilingual Mental Lexicon\". When a person first learns a second language, the language has its own conceptual system and is heavily reliant on the first language to gain understanding and meaning of the new words. For example, a Spanish learner is learning the word \"gato\", and will refer back to their original language (ex. English) to translate it into \"cat\" to gain meaning, relation, and contextual information surrounding that word. However, the more advanced an individual becomes in acquiring a certain language, the two conceptual systems will eventual converge into one, where one language influences the other and vice versa.\n\nIt has been found that Bilinguals are more susceptible to the tip of the tongue, in cases where the phonology of a word is different in both languages. For example, when recalling a word such as \"hair\" in English, there is more interference from the French word \"cheveux\", because they sound and are spelled differently. However, when a word is phonologically similar in both languages, bilinguals produce less errors than individuals who are monolingual. For example, the word \"chocolate\" is similar to the translated word in French, which is \"chocolat\". Overall, bilinguals experience the tip of the tongue phenomenon more than individuals who are monolingual. This is confirmed by the evidence that bilinguals are less able to recall words, or initiate representations of words that are different in each language.\n\nThe dual-coding theory was first postulated by Paivio and Desrochers in 1980, and indicates that two systems are responsible for the encoding and retrieval of information from memory. The verbal representational system encodes verbal information, such as words. While the imagery system encodes and retrieves non-verbal objects, such as images and scenes. The dual-coding theory enunciates that these two systems can operate independently, as well as interdependently. Therefore, verbal cues can be activated independently of images, and vice versa. However verbal cues can also prime images through associative relationships, while images can prime verbal items through associative connections as well. This is not surprising, as a person can often describe an image using verbal behaviors, indicating the interconnectedness of the two systems. This theme continues into the bilingual adaptation of the dual-coding theory, which indicates that an individual's verbal representational systems for their two languages operate independently of one another, but also have associative connections with each other. For example, thinking of synonyms for \"fierce\" using English words, would only involve the English language system. But if a person is required to translate the word \"fierce\" into the French version, this would entail the two language systems to have associative connections. Indicating that the two language systems can act independently of each other, and that each language system has their own within language connections.\n\nSome flaws with the bilingual dual coding theory have been identified. One of which deals with the constant finding that translated items are better recollected than the words that are directly recalled or require deriving synonyms for. This was originally thought because translated words are better remembered because they engage both memory systems, compared to synonyms which require the use of only one memory system. With this in mind, it was also thought that between language systems have stronger associations, compared to within language systems. This means that there are well developed associations for the translated words because there are stronger associations between two languages, compared to the connections within only one language, as seen with synonyms. Other explanations have also been explored to explain this phenomenon, one is that the translated words are better remembered because they are more deeply processed than words that people are simply asked to recall or create synonyms for. This is in line with the levels of processing effect, where in relation to the bilingual dual coding theory, words that participants are required to think of synonyms for are better recalled than the words they were simply asked to copy. This is because creating synonyms requires deeper processing than just duplicating a word. Similarly, words that participants are required to translate will be better remembered than the words they created synonyms for.\n\nLanguage-dependent recall is a phenomenon that signifies memories are best recalled when the language at encoding matches the language during recall. This is related to the encoding specificity principle purposed by Tulving and Thompson, which states that recall is better when the retrieval context is similar to the context in which the memory was encoded.\n\nLanguage-dependent recall is also significantly related to context-dependent memory. In the perspective of bilingualism, context dependent memory indicates that the language spoken during the encoding of the event acts as the external context. Whereas the language that a person thinks, rehearses and conducts inner speech constitutes the internal environment. Therefore, it is important to reinstate these internal and external contexts in which a person encodes the memory in order to enhance recall.\n\nConsequently, this has major impacts on bilingual individuals, who can interchangeably encode a memory in English, for instance, and encode another memory in French due to their diverse language capabilities. An example of context-dependent memory in the case of bilingualism is seen in an example by Viorica and Kaushanskaya. They asked participants this question: \"name a statue of someone standing with a raised arm while looking into the distance\". This inquiry was asked in two separate languages, English and Mandarin. When asked the question in Mandarin, the individuals were more likely to say the \"Statue of Mao\". However, when asked in English, the participants said the \"Statue of Liberty\". Furthermore, when a person encodes a memory in English, but is asked about the memory in French, their inner verbalization of the memory, matches that during the encoding (i.e. they are remembering the event in the language that it was encoded with). Thus indicating the importance of reinstating the internal and external context during retrieval to match the context during encoding.\n\nAccordingly, autobiographical memories and semantic knowledge can be impaired when the language during the recall (ex. English) of the memory does not match the language during encoding (ex. French). However, there are several benefits when the contexts do match. For example, Viorica and Fausey found that when the linguistics at encoding match the linguistics during retrieval it increases the speed, accuracy, and emotional intensity of the memory. Thus suggesting that language impacts the cues that are involved in the retrieval of bilingual memories.\n\n"}
{"id": "2933858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2933858", "title": "Bobot language", "text": "Bobot language\n\nBobot is a language of the island of Seram, Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "4424785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4424785", "title": "Bonan language", "text": "Bonan language\n\nThe Bonan language (pronounced , \"Baonang\") (Chinese 保安语 \"Bǎo'ān yǔ\", Amdo Tibetan \"Dorké\") is the Mongolic language of the Bonan people of China. As of 1985, it was spoken by about 8,000 people, including about 75% of the total Bonan ethnic population and many ethnic Monguor, in Gansu and Qinghai Provinces and the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture. There are several dialects, which are influenced to varying degrees — but always heavily — by Tibetan and Chinese, while bilingualism in Wutun is less common. The most commonly studied is the Tongren dialect. There is no writing system in use. The language is also referred to as \"Manegacha\", natively.\n\nBonan phonology has been heavily influenced by Tibetan. Consonants possess a [±aspirated] contrast. Initial consonant clusters of mostly falling sonority are present in native words, as are heavy diphthongs, though the content of both is heavily restricted. The possible word-initial consonant clusters in Bonan are .\n\nÑantoq Baoan has six vowels /a, e, ə, i, ɵ, u/, with long counterparts for all except /ə/.\n\nBonan, like other Mongolic languages, is agglutinative.\n\nThere are five case markings for Bonan nouns: Nominative, Accusative-Genitive, Dative-Locative, Ablative-Comparative, and Instrumentative.\n\nVerbal morphology is quite complex. Evidentiality is marked in the indicative mood as \"definite\" or \"indefinite\" with a specific suffix or with an auxiliary verb. The present definite is used to mark naturally occurring phenomena, while the present indefinite indicates the habits of animals. The indefinite may also mark volition. The future, continuous, and perfective suffixes also possess markers for evidentiality that are often used to mark negation.\n\nBonan has a primary SOV (subject–object–verb), but topicalization of an object is common. It is known for its peculiar double marking of the copula. A Mongolic copula, of which there are several with different meanings, comes sentence-finally, following Bonan SOV word order, while a copula from Chinese “to be” appears between the copula’s subject and complement, as in Chinese SVO word order. This Chinese copula is optional and is used to emphasize the subject. The definite, but not indefinite, copula can also act as a participle following some finite verbs. For example:\n\nthis COP commune-GEN car IND.COP\n\n“This is the commune’s car.” (Buhe & Liu 1985: 65)\n\nUniquely among Mongolic languages, adjectives follow the noun they modify. This is due to Tibetan influence.\n\n"}
{"id": "32361551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32361551", "title": "Buw Holding", "text": "Buw Holding\n\nThe buw Holding GmbH, was an owner-run German company based in Osnabrück acquired by Convergys through a definitive merger, is especially known for its call centres. buw has altogether about 6,000 employees who work in Osnabrück, Münster, Halle, Schwerin, Berlin, Leipzig, and Wismar. in Germany, Pécs in Hungary, and Timișoara and Cluj in Romania.\n\nJens Bormann and Karsten Wulf, who met at the University of Osnabrück, founded their company in March 1993 as b u. w (Bormann und Wulf) Telefonmarketing GmbH while they still were students.\nIn 2001 the company was restructured. In 2002 employees founded the organisation \"Lernen fürs Leben\" (\"Learning for Life\") which is committed to projects in the Third World, in particular if they serve the purpose to teach people how to make a living on their own.\n\nIn 2003 the buw Holding had 1,700 employees in Osnabrück, Münster and Munich. Temporarily it also ran a call centre in Vienna, Austria.\n\nIn 2006 the company received the \"European Call Centre Award\" for its corporate identity.\n\nIn 2008 the holding's turnover was EUR 76 million and in 2009 buw already employed up to about 3,700 people.\n\nIn February 2011 a call centre was opened in Timișoara, Romania.\n\nIn August 2016 Convergys Corporation has completed its previously announced acquisition of buw, By adding buw’s geographic footprint, complementary client base, and German language capabilities, Convergys becomes the second largest outsourced customer services provider in Germany. The combination creates a team of approximately 7,000 German-speaking service professionals, located in 19 sites and four countries – Germany, Hungary, Romania, and Poland.\n\nThe buw Holding GmbH consists of two main branches:\n\n"}
{"id": "185118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185118", "title": "Chechen language", "text": "Chechen language\n\nChechen ( , ) is a Northeast Caucasian language spoken by more than 1.4 million people, mostly in the Chechen Republic and by members of the Chechen diaspora throughout Russia, Jordan, Central Asia (mainly Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan), and Georgia.\n\nChechen is a Northeast Caucasian language. Together with the closely related Ingush, with which there exists a large degree of mutual intelligibility and shared vocabulary, it forms the Vainakh branch.\n\nThere are a number of Chechen dialects: Akkish, Chantish, Chebarloish, Malkhish, Nokhchmakhkakhoish, Orstkhoish, Sharoish, Shuotoish, Terloish, Itum-Qalish, and Himoish. The Kisti dialect of Georgia is not easily understood by northern Chechens without a few days' practice. One difference in pronunciation is that Kisti aspirated consonants remain aspirated when doubled (fortis) or after /s/, whereas they lose their aspiration in other dialects in these situations.\n\nDialects of Chechen can be classified by their geographic position within the Chechen Republic. The dialects of the northern lowlands are often referred to as \"Oharoy muott\" (literally \"lowlander's language\") and the dialect of the southern mountain tribes is known as \"Laamaroy muott\" (lit. \"mountainer's language\"). Oharoy muott forms the basis for much of the standard and literary Chechen language, which can largely be traced to the regional dialects of Urus-Martan and contemporary Grozny. Laamaroy dialects include (but are not limited to) Chebarloish, Sharoish, Itum-Qalish, Kisti, and Himoish. Until recently, however, Himoy was undocumented and was considered a branch of Sharoish, as many dialects are also used as the basis of intertribal (teip) communication within a larger Chechen \"tukkhum\". Laamaroy dialects such as Sharoish, Himoish and Chebarloish are more conservative and retain many features from Proto–Chechen. For instance, many of these dialects lack a number of vowels found in the standard language which were a result of long-distance assimilation between vowel sounds. Additionally, the Himoy dialect preserves word-final, post-tonic vowels as a schwa [ə], indicating Laamaroy and Ohwaroy dialects were already separate at the time that Oharoy dialects were undergoing assimilation.\n\nAccording to the Russian Census of 2010, 1,350,000 people reported being able to speak Chechen.\n\nChechen is an official language of Chechnya.\n\nChechens in Jordan have good relations with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and are able to practice their own culture and language. Chechen language usage is strong among the Chechen community in Jordan. Chechens are bilingual in both Chechen and Arabic, but do not speak Arabic among themselves, only speaking Chechen to other Chechens. Some Jordanians are literate in Chechen as well, having managed to read and write to people visiting Jordan from Chechnya.\n\nSome phonological characteristics of Chechen include its wealth of consonants and sounds similar to Arabic and the Salishan languages of North America, as well as a large vowel system resembling those of Swedish and German.\n\nThe Chechen language has, like most indigenous languages of the Caucasus, a large number of consonants: about 40 to 60 (depending on the dialect and the analysis), far more than in most European languages. Typical of the region, a four-way distinction between voiced, voiceless, ejective, and geminate fortis stops is found.\n\nNearly any consonant may be fortis because of focus gemination, but only the ones above are found in roots.\nThe consonants of the \"t\" cell and are denti-alveolar; the others of that column are alveolar. \nThe lateral may be velarized, unless it's followed by a front vowel. \nThe trill is usually articulated with a single contact, and therefore sometimes described as a tap .\nExcept in the literary register, and even then only for some speakers, the voiced affricates , have merged into the fricatives , . A voiceless labial fricative is found only in European loanwords.\n\nThe approximately twenty pharyngealized consonants do not appear in the table above. Labial, alveolar, and postalveolar consonants may be pharyngealized, except for ejectives. Pharyngealized consonants do not occur in verbs or adjectives, and in nouns and adverbs they occur predominantly before the low vowels ().\n\nExcept when following a consonant, is phonetically , and can be argued to be a glottal stop before a \"pharyngealized\" (actually epiglottalized) vowel. However, it does not have the distribution constraints characteristic of the anterior pharyngealized (epiglottalized) consonants. Although these may be analyzed as an anterior consonant plus (they surface for example as when voiced and when voiceless), Nichols argues that given the severe constraints against consonant clusters in Chechen, it is more useful to analyze them as single consonants.\n\nThe voiceless alveolar trill contrasts with the voiced version , but only occurs in two roots, \"vworh\" \"seven\" and \"barh\" \"eight\".\n\nUnlike most other languages of the Caucasus, Chechen has an extensive inventory of vowel sounds, about 44, putting its range higher than most languages of Europe (most vowels being the product of environmentally-conditioned allophonic variation, which varies by both dialect and method of analysis). Many of the vowels are due to umlaut, which is highly productive in the standard dialect. None of the spelling systems used so far have distinguished the vowels with complete accuracy.\n\nAll vowels may be nasalized. Nasalization is imposed by the genitive, infinitive, and for some speakers the nominative case of adjectives. Nasalization is not strong, but it is audible even in final vowels, which are devoiced.\n\nSome of the diphthongs have significant allophony: = ; = ; = .\n\nIn closed syllables, long vowels become short in most dialects (not Kisti), but are often still distinct from short vowels (shortened , , , and vs. short , , , and , for example), though which remain distinct depends on the dialect. and are in complementary distribution ( occurs after pharyngealized consonants, whereas does not, and —identical with for most speakers—occurs in closed syllables, while does not) but speakers strongly feel that they are distinct sounds.\n\nPharyngealization appears to be a feature of the consonants, though some analyses treat it as a feature of the vowels. However, Nichols argues that this does not capture the situation in Chechen well, whereas it is more clearly a feature of the vowel in Ingush: Chechen \"one\", Ingush , which she analyzes as and . Vowels have a delayed murmured onset after pharyngealized voiced consonants and a noisy aspirated onset after pharyngealized voiceless consonants. The high vowels are diphthongized, , whereas the diphthongs undergo metathesis, .\n\nChechen permits syllable-initial clusters , and non-initial plus any consonant and any obstruent plus a uvular of the same manner. The only cluster of three consonants permitted is .\n\nChechen is an agglutinative language with an ergative–absolutive morphosyntactic alignment. Chechen nouns belong to one of several genders or classes (6), each with a specific prefix with which the verb or an accompanying adjective agrees. The verb does not agree with the subject or object's person or number, having only tense forms and participles. Among these are an optative and an antipassive. Some verbs, however, do not take these prefixes.\n\nChechen is an ergative, dependent-marking language using eight cases (absolutive, genitive, dative, ergative, allative, instrumental, locative and comparative) and a large number of postpositions to indicate the role of nouns in sentences.\n\nWord order is consistently left-branching (like in Japanese or Turkish), so that adjectives, demonstratives and relative clauses precede the nouns they modify. Complementizers and adverbial subordinators, as in other Northeast and in Northwest Caucasian languages, are affixes rather than independent words.\n\nChechen also presents interesting challenges for lexicography, as creating new words in the language relies on fixation of whole phrases rather than adding to the end of existing words or combining existing words. It can be difficult to decide which phrases belong in the dictionary, because the language's grammar does not permit the borrowing of new verbal morphemes to express new concepts. Instead, the verb dan (to do) is combined with nominal phrases to correspond with new concepts imported from other languages.\n\nChechen nouns are divided into six lexically arbitrary noun classes. Morphologically, noun classes may be indexed by changes in the prefix of the accompanying verb and, in many cases, the adjective too. The first two of these classes apply to human beings, although some grammarians count these as two and some as a single class; the other classes however are much more lexically arbitrary. Chechen noun classes are named according to the prefix that indexes them:\nWhen a noun denotes a human being, it usually falls into v- or y-Classes (1 or 2). Most nouns referring to male entities fall into the v-class, whereas Class 2 contains words related to female entities. Thus \"lūlaxuo\" (a neighbour) is class 1, but takes v- if a male neighbour and y- if a female. In a few words, changing the prefixes before the nouns indicates grammatical gender; thus: \"vоsha\" (brother) → \"yisha\" (sister). Some nouns denoting human beings, however, are not in Classes 1 or 2: \"bēr\" (child) for example is in class 3.\n\nOnly a few of Chechen's adjectives index noun class agreement, termed \"classed adjectives\" in the literature. Classed adjectives are listed with the -d class prefix in the romanizations below:\n\nWhereas Indo-European languages code noun class and case conflated in the same morphemes, Chechen nouns show no gender marking but decline in eight grammatical cases, four of which are core cases (i.e. absolutive, ergative, genitive, and dative) in singular and plural. Below the paradigm for \"говр\" (horse).\n\nPossessive pronouns\n\nThe locative still has a few further forms for specific positions\n\nVerbs do not inflect for person (except for the special d- prefix for the 1st and 2nd persons plural), only for number and tense, aspect, mood. A minority of verbs exhibit agreement prefixes, and these agree with either their subject (intransitive verbs) or with their objects (transitive verbs), with the important note that verbs in compound continuous tenses have the auxiliary verb (-u, to be) agree with the subject and the main verb in participial form agree with the object, provided that the subject is left in the absolutive case (unmarked). If the subject of a transitive verb is marked ergative case, then the auxiliary can only agree with the direct object of the verb.\n\nExample of verbal agreement in intransitive clause with a composite verb:\n\nСо цхьан сахьтехь вогІур ву (so tsHan saHteH voghur vu) = I (male) will come in one hour\n\nСо цхьан сахьтехь йогІур ю (so tsHan saHteH yoghur yu) = I (female) will come in one hour\n\nWhere the verb's future stem \"-огІур\" (will come) and the auxiliary \"-у\" (present tense of 'be') receive the prefix v- for a masculine subject but y- for a feminine subject.\n\nVerbal tenses are formed by ablaut or suffixes, or both (there are five conjugations in total, below is one). Derived stems can be formed by suffixation as well (causative, etc.):\n\nNumerous inscriptions in the Georgian script are found in mountainous Chechnya, but they are not necessarily in Chechen. Later, the Arabic script was introduced for Chechen, along with Islam. The Chechen Arabic alphabet was first reformed during the reign of Imam Shamil, and then again in 1910, 1920 and 1922.\n\nAt the same time, the alphabet devised by Peter von Uslar, consisting of Cyrillic, Latin, and Georgian letters, was used for academic purposes. In 1911 it too was reformed but never gained popularity among the Chechens themselves.\n\nThe Latin alphabet was introduced in 1925. It was unified with Ingush in 1934, but abolished in 1938.\n\nIn 1938–92, only the Cyrillic alphabet was used for Chechen.\n\nIn 1992, a new Latin Chechen alphabet was introduced, but after the defeat of the secessionist government, the Cyrillic alphabet was restored.\n\nMost Chechen vocabulary is derived from the Nakh branch of the Northeast Caucasian language family, although there are significant minorities of words derived from Arabic (Islamic terms, like \"Iman\", \"Ilma\", \"Do'a\") and a smaller amount from Turkic (like \"kuzga\", \"shish\"), belonging to the universal Caucasian stratum of borrowings) and most recently Russian (modern terms, like computer – \"kamputar\", television – \"telvideni\", televisor – \"telvizar\", metro – \"metro\" etc.).\n\nBefore the Russian conquest, most writing in Chechnya consisted of Islamic texts and clan histories, written usually in Arabic but sometimes also in Chechen using Arabic script. Those texts were largely destroyed by Soviet authorities in 1944. The Chechen literary language was created after the October Revolution, and the Latin script began to be used instead of Arabic for Chechen writing in the mid-1920s. In 1938, the Cyrillic script was adopted, in order to tie the nation closer to Russia. With the declaration of the Chechen republic in 1992, some Chechen speakers returned to the Latin alphabet.\n\nThe Chechen diaspora in Jordan, Turkey, and Syria is fluent but generally not literate in Chechen except for individuals who have made efforts to learn the writing system, and of course the Cyrillic alphabet is not generally known in these countries.\n\nThe choice of alphabet for Chechen is politically significant: Russia prefers the use of Cyrillic, whereas the separatists preferred Latin.\n\n"}
{"id": "45539907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45539907", "title": "Cosao language", "text": "Cosao language\n\nCosao (autonym: \"tsʰo55 sɔ55\"; ) is a Loloish language of China and Laos. The Cosao call themselves \"tsʰo55 sɔ55\", but are referred to by other ethnic groups as the Paijiao people (排角人). They are officially classified by the Chinese government as ethnic Hani people.\n\nIn China, there are 149 ethnic Cosao people living in the village of Man'gang 曼冈, Mengban Village 勐伴村, Mengban Town 勐伴镇, Mengla County, Yunnan.\n\nIn northern Laos, there are 400 ethnic Cosao people in 2 villages in Phongsaly Province, namely Ban Nanli 板南里 (21°45′15″N 102°11′21″E) and Ban Shalue 板沙略 in Boun Tay District 乌德县 (Bai 2015:2-3). Ban Nanli is the older village of the two, since Cosao residents of Ban Shalue report that their ancestors had migrated from Ban Nanli. The two villages are located about 20 kilometers apart from each other.\n\nThere are 550 Cosao people total in both China and Laos. In China, Cosao speakers are classified as ethnic Hani.\n\nCosao is most closely related to the Khir language of Phongsaly Province, Laos. In turn, Cosao and Khir both belong to the Sila language cluster, which includes Sila, Sida, Phusang, Khir, and Cosao.\n\n"}
{"id": "1249919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1249919", "title": "Fer language", "text": "Fer language\n\nThe Fer language, also \"Dam Fer\" or \"Fertit,\" one of several languages called Kara (\"Kara of Birao\"), is a Central Sudanic language spoken by some five thousand people in the northern Central African Republic near the Sudanese and Chadian borders, in the region known as Dar Runga.\n\nWhile the Ethnologue leaves it unclassified, it appears to be a Bongo–Bagirmi language within the Central Sudanic family (Lionel Bender, Pascal Boyeldieu); Roger Blench classifies \"Fer\" as Bagirmi, but \"Kara of Birao\" as one of the related Kara languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1296504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1296504", "title": "Gabriel o Pensador", "text": "Gabriel o Pensador\n\nGabriel Contino, better known as Gabriel o Pensador (Portuguese for \"Gabriel the Thinker\") is a Brazilian rapper, writer, and composer known for his intellectual lyrics which speak of activism, and issues of race, politics, social problems, and the Catholic church. Gabriel began his music career when he launched a demo tape containing the song \"Tô Feliz (Matei o Presidente)\" I'm Happy (I killed the President) landing him a contract with Sony Music. Since then he has released eight albums: \"Ainda É Só o Começo\", \"Quebra-Cabeça\", \"Nádegas a Declarar\", \"Gabriel o Pensador\", \"Seja Você Mesmo (mas não Seja sempre o Mesmo)\", \"MTV ao Vivo\", \"Cavaleiro Andante\" and \"Sem Crise\" (this last one was released independently). Gabriel has also written three books: \"Diário Noturno\", \"Um Garoto Chamado Rorbeto\" and \"Meu Pequeno Rubro-Negro\". \"Um Garoto Chamado Rorbeto\" won the \"Prêmio Jabuti\", for best Children's literature.\n\nComing from a middle-class family, a unique background among Brazilian rappers, Gabriel, the son of a well known journalist in Brazil, hit fame in 1992 with the song \"Tô Feliz (Matei o Presidente)\" (\"I' m happy, I've killed the president\"), the debut single from his first and eponymous album. This song was written in protest of President Fernando Collor de Mello and his corrupt administration. Gabriel's mother was Collor's press secretary. The same album also yielded other hits, including \"Lôrabúrra\" (\"Dumb Blonde\", shortened) and \"Retrato de um Playboy\" (\"Portrait of a Playboy\"), bringing hip hop mainstream attention in Brazil by catering to the middle class. Although rapping about everyday life, Gabriel also found time to talk about social injustices with his fourth single, \"O Resto do Mundo\" (\"The Leftovers of the World\", a pun on the words \"leftovers\" and \"rest\" being the same word), a more downbeat track about homeless life, with a purposefully depressive melody and flow. Gabriel was \"notorious for his biting attacks on some of the major ills of Brazilian society: poverty, racism, violence.\"\n\nHis following albums were also commercially successful, with a careful blend of socially relevant tracks mixed with airwave-minded pop anthems. His third album, \"Quebra-Cabeça\", was released in 1997 and sold over one million copies. History-minded, Gabriel was highly influenced by other Brazilian music, including bossa nova, samba and MPB, as well as using hip hop's traditional methods of sampling jazz, funk and disco (\"2345meia78\", for example, sampled Chic's \"Good Times\").\n\nIn 1994, while touring in Portugal, Gabriel's song \"Lavagem cerebral\" (Brainwashing) was received with much praise. The piece was accepted as \"a strong social critique of Brazilian society and of the ideology of the dominating classes.\"\n\nBesides his native Brazil, Gabriel, o Pensador is also well known in Portugal, Angola, Cape Verde, Mozambique, and has worked with Portuguese musicians like Sérgio Godinho and General D.\n\nThe musician has also released three books: \"Diário Noturno\" (Brazil and Portugal; poems and short stories), \"Um garoto chamado Rorbeto\" (Brazil; fiction poetry for children) \"Meu Pequeno Rubro-Negro\" (Brazil; about children who support Flamengo, like himself). He has been a juror on the spelling bee contest \"Soletrando\" (in its second edition) on the program Caldeirão do Huck. \nConcerned about the truancy among a group of boys he helped in Rocinha, in , Rio de Janeiro, Gabriel put his hands to work and created an NGO called \"Pensando Junto\"(Portuguese for \"Thinking Together\"), an organization serving a social, educational and cultural purpose for children and youth in the community of Rocinha, providing its participants with access to culture, education, leisure, food, medical, dental and psychological care. The organization offers tutoring and courses for a group of underprivileged children in the Rocinha district, located in Gabriel's hometown of Rio de Janeiro, where he still lives in today. Gabriel is also a member of the Dreams Can Be Foundation, a nonprofit charitable supporting organization and a Brazilian NGO dedicated to aiding street children and impoverished youth in Brazil, working in partnership with local organizations and NGOs to provide: education, moral and social development, humanitarian relief, and the offering of opportunities where there were none before.\n\n"}
{"id": "490136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=490136", "title": "Hamzanama", "text": "Hamzanama\n\nThe Hamzanama (Persian/Urdu: \"Hamzenâme\", Epic of Hamza) or Dastan-e-Amir Hamza (Persian/Urdu: \"Dâstâne Amir Hamze\", Adventures of Amir Hamza) narrates the legendary exploits of Amir Hamza, an uncle of Muhammad, though most of the stories are extremely fanciful, \"a continuous series of romantic interludes, threatening events, narrow escapes, and violent acts\".\n\nMost of the characters of the \"Hamzanama\" are fictitious. In the West the work is best known for the enormous illustrated manuscript commissioned by the Mughal Emperor Akbar in about 1562.\n\nThe \"Hamzanama\" contains 46 volumes and has approximately 48000 pages. It is said that Dastaan Ameer Hamza was written in the era of Mahmud of Ghazni.\n\nThe text augmented the story, as traditionally told in dastan performances. The dastan (storytelling tradition) about Amir Hamza persists far and wide up to Bengal and Arakan (Burma), as the Mughals controlled those territories.\n\nThough the first Mughal Emperor, Babur, described the \"Hamzanama\" as \"one long far-fetched lie; opposed to sense and nature\", his grandson Akbar, who came to the throne at the age of fourteen, greatly enjoyed it. He commissioned his court workshop to create an illustrated manuscript of the \"Hamzanama\" early in his reign (he was by then about twenty), which was conceived on such an unusually large scale that it took fourteen years, from about 1562 to 1577, to complete. Apart from the text, it included 1400 full page Mughal miniatures of an unusually large size, nearly all painted on paper, which were then glued to a cloth backing. The work was bound in 14 volumes. After the early pages, where various layouts were experimented with, one side of most folios has a painting, about 69 cm x 54 cm (approx. 27 x 20 inches) in size, done in a fusion of Persian and Mughal styles. On the other side is the text in Persian in Nasta'liq script, arranged so that the text is opposite the matching picture in most openings of the book.\n\nThe size of the commission was completely unprecedented, and stretched even the huge imperial workshop. According to contemporary accounts, about thirty main artists were used, and over a hundred men worked on the various aspects of the book in all. According to Badauni and Shahnawaz Khan the work of preparing the illustrations was supervised initially by Mir Sayyid Ali and subsequently by Abdus Samad, the former possibly being replaced as head of the workshop because the pace of production was too slow. After seven years only four volumes were completed, but the new head was able to galvanize production and complete the ten volumes in another seven years, without any loss of quality. Indeed, \"the later pages are the most exciting and innovative in the work\".\n\nThe colophon of this manuscript is still missing. None of the folios of this manuscript so far found is signed, though many have been attributed to different artists. Compared to Akbar's \"Tutinama\", a smaller commission begun and completed while the \"Hamzanama\" commission was in progress, the manuscript shows a much greater fusion of the styles of Indian and Persian miniatures. Though the elegance and finish may seem closer to Persian works, the compositional style and narrative drama owe more to Indian tradition. Between them, these two manuscripts are the key works in the formation of the Mughal miniature style.\n\nOnly a little over a hundred of the paintings survive. The largest group of 61 images is in the Museum of Applied Arts, Vienna (Österreichisches Museum für angewandte Kunst or MAK), with the rest spread over many collections. The Victoria and Albert Museum possess 27 images, bought in Kashmir, and the British Museum in London has one. The MAK organized in 2009 the exhibition \"GLOBAL:LAB, Art as a Message. Asia and Europe 1500-1700\", which showed its whole holding of the \"Hamzanama\". Other recent exhibitions dedicated to the manuscript have been at the Victoria and Albert Museum in 2003 and in 2002/2003 at the Smithsonian in Washington D.C. which transferred to the Brooklyn Museum in New York.\n\nWhole miniature of Mughal Hamzanama trace by John seyller in his book \"The adventures of Hamza : painting and storytelling in Mughal India\"\n\nThe \"Dastan-e-Amir Hamza\" existed in several other illustrated manuscript versions. One version by Navab Mirza Aman Ali Khan Ghalib Lakhnavi was printed in 1855 and published by the Hakim Sahib Press, Calcutta, India. This version was later embellished by Abdullah Bilgrami and published by the Naval Kishore Press, Lucknow, in 1871. Two English language translations have been published. The first is available in an expanded version on the website of the translator Frances Pritchett, of Columbia University. Pritchett's former student at Columbia University, Pasha Mohamad Khan, who currently teaches at McGill University, researches qissa/dastan (romances) and the art of dastan-goi (storytelling), including the \"Hamzanama\". In 2007 Musharraf Ali Farooqi, a Pakistani-Canadian author, translated the Ghalib Lakhnavi/Abdulla Bilgriami version into English.\n\nA Pakistani author Maqbool Jahangir wrote \"Dastan-e-Amir Hamza\" for children in \nUrdu language. His version contains 10 volumes and was published by Ferozsons (also Ferozsons Publishers).\n\nThe story is also performed in Indonesian puppet theatre, where it is called \"Wayang Menak\". Here, Hamzah is also known as Wong Agung Jayeng Rana or Amir Ambyah.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42626668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42626668", "title": "I am Error", "text": "I am Error\n\n\"I am Error\" is a quote from the NES game \"\". The quote is spoken by a villager, apparently named Error, in the town of Ruto. In the original Japanese version of the game, the line is , which translates to \"My name is Error...\".\n\nThe unlikely character name is widely believed to have been a programmer's in-joke, since the game also features a similar looking character named , meaning software bug. In computing, a bug is a flaw in the programming code. Error and Bug are thus assumed to form a comical, in-universe parallel. In the English version, the name \"Erā\" was translated, but the name \"Bagu\" was not. Many gamers therefore missed the joke and variously believed the \"I am Error\" phrase to be a mistranslation, a misspelling, or an actual error message.\n\nThe phrase has since become part of the NES folklore and became an early Internet meme around 2000. It has been referenced in a number of games, including \"Super Paper Mario\", \"The Binding of Isaac\", and \"Guacamelee!\".\n\n\"\" was released in Japan on 14 January 1987, and internationally in late 1988. The player controls Link, who travels through Hyrule in his quest to rescue Princess Zelda. Early in the game, Link arrives in the town of Ruto, where he can enter a house inhabited by a bearded man with purple attire. If the player approaches him, he announces: \"I AM ERROR.\"\n\nMany puzzled gamers believed the cryptic phrase to be a translation mistake or a glitch within the game, but it is actually neither. The line is a correct English translation of the original Japanese text , of which a more precise translation would be \"My name is Error...\". Initially, the character does not say anything else. However, when the player advances to the harbor town of Mido, a man there advises Link to \"Ask Error of Ruto about the Palace\". If the player then goes back to Error, he provides Link with a clue about how to gain access to the Island Palace, the game's third dungeon.\n\nWhile no official explanation from Nintendo exists regarding the origin of the \"Erā\"/Error character, his name is widely believed to have been an in-joke from the game's programmers. Aside from Error, the game also features a character named , meaning \"[software] bug\". \"Bagu\"/Bug lives near Error, residing in a house hidden in a forest south of Ruto. The two characters look identical, except that Error wears a purple tunic, while Bug's tunic is red. It is therefore assumed that one of the developers named one character Error and another one Bug, so as having the two men form a humorous thematic connection within the game's universe. When the game was translated to English, the name \"Erā\" was (correctly) translated to Error, but the name \"Bagu\" was not translated to Bug, leading \"Official Nintendo Magazine\" to conclude: \"In reality, then, \"Bagu\" is the mistake, because his name was translated wrongly and should have been Bug. So there.\"\n\nTranslator Clyde Mandelin wrote that the \"I am Error\" quote is often incorrectly believed to be a translation mistake, and is even considered \"one of the biggest mistranslations of early NES games\", even though it is not actually a mistranslation. Another incorrect notion about Error is that his name is a typo and should have been Errol. The original Japanese text proves this wrong though. The reason for the phrase often being considered a translation or spelling mistake is likely because many early games from the 1980s and 90s, including the first \"Zelda\" game, were rife with mistranslations and poor English prose ('Engrish'). A well known example of this is \"All your base are belong to us\" from \"Zero Wing\" (1989).\n\nAround 2000, \"I am Error\" became an early Internet meme. According to Ben Huh, founder of Cheezburger Inc., the meme was inspired by the successful \"All your base are belong to us\" meme, which in turn inspired a number of memes based on 'Engrish' quotes from old games, such as \"A Winner is You\" (from the NES game \"Pro Wrestling\"). The \"All your base\" joke is believed to have sprung up in 1998 and surged in popularity in 2000-2001, giving some indication of when the \"I am Error\" meme must have originated.\n\nDespite being a minor NPC, Error has become part of the NES folklore and has been mentioned in several media. For example, VideoGamer's Emily Gera included him in a list of the \"oddest character names in games\", describing him as \"[p]ossibly one of the most well known minor characters of all time\". GamesRadar+ included his phrase in a list of the 40 most repeated quotes. GameSpot mentioned the phrase in an article discussing poor translation in video games, incorrectly calling it a 'translation oddity'. IGN included it in their list of the worst in-game quotes at number two. The editor joked that the 'mystery' of Error \"ranked up with Sasquatch and the Loch Ness Monster\". \"The Escapist\"s Brett Staebell called Error a \"pioneer in game humorology\", and used the quote as the subtitle for his article. A \"Nintendo Life\" review for \"\" noted that the game has \"an 'I AM ERROR'-esque script\", likening the game's garbled translation to the phrase.\n\nFrom approximately 2012 to 2015, the 404 page of nintendo.co.uk stated \"I AM ERROR\", along with a picture of the character. At E3 2014, the Nintendo Treehouse's presentation of \"Super Smash Bros. for Wii U\" displayed an error page based on the \"I am Error\" scene after experiencing technical difficulties.\n\nIn 2015, MIT Press published a platform studies on the Nintendo Famicom / Entertainment System, titled \"I Am Error\".\n\n\"Super Paper Mario\" (2007) features a boss battle against a character named Fracktail, a robotic dragon. It is at one point hacked, which causes it to utter several confused lines, including \"I AM ERROR. PRESS ANY KEY TO RESTART.\" An achievement in \"Guacamelee!\" (2013) was given the title \"I AM ERROR\". \"Zeno Clash II\" (2013) also features it as an achievement title. The quote is featured in \"\" (2010). Video game designer Edmund McMillen put references to the quote in two of his games: \"Time Fcuk\" and \"The Binding of Isaac\". In \"Splatoon 2\" (2017), Pearl says \"I AM ERROR\" when her Team Retro loses the Splatfest to Marina's Team Modern.\n\nIn September 2004, a homebrew developer released a mod of the original \"Zelda II\" game called \"Zelda II: The Adventure of Error\", in which Error has an adventure of his own.\n"}
{"id": "743265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=743265", "title": "Ingush language", "text": "Ingush language\n\nIngush (, , \"\", pronounced ) is a Northeast Caucasian language spoken by about 500,000 people, known as the Ingush, across a region covering the Russian republics of Ingushetia and Chechnya.\n\nIngush and Chechen, together with Bats, constitute the Nakh branch of the Northeast Caucasian language family. There is pervasive passive bilingualism between Ingush and Chechen.\n\nIngush is spoken by about 413,000 people (2002), primarily across a region in the Caucasus covering parts of Russia, primarily Ingushetia and Chechnya. Speakers can also be found in Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Belgium, Norway, Turkey and Jordan.\n\nIngush is, alongside Russian, an official language of Ingushetia, a federal subject of Russia.\n\nIngush became a written language with an Arabic-based writing system at the beginning of the 20th century. After the October Revolution it first used a Latin alphabet, which was later replaced by Cyrillic.\n\nThe diphthongs are иэ /ie/, уо /uo/, оа , ий /ij/, эи /ei/, ои /oi/, уи /ui/, ов /ow/, ув /uw/.\n\nThe consonants of Ingush are as follows, including the Latin orthography developed by Johanna Nichols:\n\nIngush is not divided into dialects with the exception of Galain-Chazh (native name: Галайн-ЧӀаж), which is considered to be transitional between Chechen and Ingush.\n\nIngush is a nominative–accusative language in its syntax, though it has ergative morphology.\n\nThe most recent and in-depth analysis of the language shows eight cases: nominative, ergative, genitive, dative, allative, instrumental, lative, and comparative.\n\nLike many Northeast Caucasian languages, Ingush uses a vigesimal system, where numbers lower than twenty are counted as in a base-ten system, but higher decads are base-twenty.\n\n\nIn Ingush, \"for main clauses, other than episode-initial and other all-new ones, verb-second order is most common. The verb, or the finite part of a compound verb or analytic tense form (i.e. the light verb or the auxiliary), follows the first word or phrase in the clause\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7940588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7940588", "title": "Joshua Heschel Zoref", "text": "Joshua Heschel Zoref\n\nJoshua Heschel Zoref (1633–1700) was a 17th-century ascetic, and an important figure in the Lithuanian Sabbatean movement. During the messianic fervor of 1666, he claimed to experience visions similar to those of Ezekiel. He, like Judah Leib Prossnitz also, considered himself to be possessed of the role of Messiah ben Joseph, with Shabbatai Tzvi playing the role of Messiah ben David.\n\nShortly thereafter he began transcribing his visions into five books. What has survived of these works show them to be entirely built upon the numerical speculations (gematriah) of Nathan Nata Spira. Some parts of this work, named \"Sefer Ha-Zoref\", came to Nathan ben Levi, while others came into the possession of the Baal Shem Tov, who evidently valued them highly while unaware of their origins.\n\nScholem (1974) contains a lengthier biography.\n"}
{"id": "33276045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33276045", "title": "Kayabi language", "text": "Kayabi language\n\nKayabí (Caiabi) is a Tupian language spoken by the Kayabí people of Mato Grosso, Brazil. Although the Kayabi call themselves \"Kagwahiva\", their language is not part of the Kagwahiva language.\n"}
{"id": "12343497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12343497", "title": "Koh-i-Noor Hardtmuth", "text": "Koh-i-Noor Hardtmuth\n\nKoh-i-Noor Hardtmuth a.s. is a Czech manufacturer and one of the world's largest producers and distributors of art supplies, writing equipment and stationery. It was founded in 1790 by Joseph Hardtmuth of Austria. In 1802, the company patented the first pencil lead made from a combination of kaolin and graphite.\n\nIn 1848, Joseph's sons, Karl and Ludwig, took over the family business, and the production was relocated to the Bohemian town of Budweis, within the current Czech Republic. The products were given awards in many world exhibitions, including in 1855 in New York City, 1856, 1900 and 1925 in Paris, 1862 in London, 1882 in Vienna and 1905 in Milan.\n\nAt the 1889 World Fair in Paris, the Hardtmuth's displayed their pencils rebranded as \"Koh-I-Noor Hardtmuth\". Each pencil was encased in a yellow cedar-wood barrel. The inspiration for the name was the famous Koh-i-Noor diamond (Persian for \"Mountain of Light\"), part of the Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom, and the largest diamond in the world at the time.\n\nAfter the Second World War, Koh-i-Noor Hardtmuth became a state-owned company, before again becoming privately held in 1992. Since 2007, it has been a member of the Czech parent company KOH-I-NOOR Holding a.s. The company has production facilities in more than 80 countries. It is also a contract manufacturer of small injection-moulded plastic products. Koh-i-Noor was a partner in making Jiří Barta's 2009 animated feature \"In the Attic\", and its pencils appear frequently throughout the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "1091093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1091093", "title": "Lath and plaster", "text": "Lath and plaster\n\nLath and plaster is a building process used to finish mainly interior dividing walls and ceilings. It consists of narrow strips of wood (laths) which are nailed horizontally across the wall studs or ceiling joists and then coated in plaster. The technique derives from an earlier, more primitive, process called wattle and daub.\n\nIn Canada and the United States the laths were generally sawn, but in the United Kingdom and its colonies riven or split hardwood laths, of random lengths and sizes, were often used. Splitting the timber along its grain greatly improved strength and durability. In some areas of the U.K. reed mat was also used as a lath. Lath and plaster largely fell out of favour in the U.K. after the introduction of plasterboard in the 1930s. In Canada and the United States it remained in use until drywall began to replace the process in the 1950's.\n\nThe wall or ceiling finishing process begins with wood laths. These are narrow strips of wood, or split boards, nailed horizontally across the wall studs or ceiling joists. Each wall frame is covered in lath, tacked at the studs. The lath is typically about one inch (2.5 cm) wide by four feet (1.22 meters) long by thick. Each horizontal course of lath is spaced about away from its neighboring courses.\n\nTemporary lath guides are then placed vertically to the wall, usually at the studs. Plaster is then applied, typically using a wooden board as the application tool. The applier drags the board upward over the wall, forcing the plaster into the gaps between the lath and leaving a layer on the front the depth of the temporary guides, typically about . A helper feeds new plaster onto the board, as the plaster is applied in quantity. When the wall is fully covered, the vertical lath \"guides\" are removed, and their \"slots\" are filled in, leaving a fairly uniform undercoat.\n\nIn three coat plastering it is standard to apply a second layer in the same fashion, leaving about a half inch of rough, sandy plaster (called a \"brown coat\" or \"browning\" (UK)). A smooth, white finish coat goes on last. After the plaster is completely dry, the walls are ready to be painted. In this article's photo (\"lath seen from the back...\") the curls of plaster are called \"keys\" and are necessary to keep the plaster on the lath. Traditional lime based mortar/plaster often incorporates horsehair which reinforces the plasterwork, thereby helping to prevent the keys from breaking away.\n\nEventually the wood laths became less common, and were replaced with \"rock lath\" (also known as \"button board\"), which is a type of gypsum wall board with holes spaced regularly across it, usually in sheets sized by (60 cm by 120 cm). The purpose of the four-foot length is so that the sheet of lath reaches exactly across three wall studs, which are spaced apart on center (United States building code standard measurements). The holes serve the same purpose as the spaces between the wood lath strips, allowing plaster to ooze through the board when the plaster is applied, making the keys to hold the plaster to the wall board.\n\nIn addition to \"rock lath\", there were various types of \"metal lath\" which is categorized according to weight, type of ribbing, and whether the lath is galvanized or not. Metal lathing was spaced across a 13.5 inch center, attached by tie wires using lathers' nippers. Sometimes, the mesh was dimpled to be self-furring.\n\nLath and plaster has been mostly replaced with solid drywall or plasterboard (also a type of gypsum wall board, although a bit thicker), since it is faster and less expensive to install.\n\nAn advantage of using lath is for ornamental or unusual shapes. For instance, building a rounded wall would be difficult if drywall were used exclusively, as drywall is not flexible enough to allow tight radii. Wire mesh often used for exterior Stucco is also found in combination or replacement of lath and plaster which serves similar purpose.\n\nTraditional lath and plaster has superior sound-proofing qualities when used with lime plaster (which is denser than modern gypsum board).\n\nIn many historic buildings lath and plaster ceilings have a major role for the prevention of fire spread. \"They are critical to the protection of horizontal elements such as timber joisted floors, including the flooring on top, which in terms of fire performance is often in a poor condition due to the presence of gaps.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8566539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8566539", "title": "List of Sahitya Akademi Award winners for Rajasthani", "text": "List of Sahitya Akademi Award winners for Rajasthani\n\nThe following is a list of winners of the Sahitya Akademi Award for writings in Rajasthani language.\n"}
{"id": "6257037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6257037", "title": "List of multilingual bands and artists", "text": "List of multilingual bands and artists\n\nThis is a list of multilingual bands and artists. The band's or artist's native language is listed first. The list itself may also contain some singers from all over the world whose first language is English and ability to sing in different languages. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nsuper furry animals (welsh, english, german, spanish)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42240134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42240134", "title": "Lotegorisch", "text": "Lotegorisch\n\nLotegorisch or \"Lottegorisch\" (older own description: \"lochne kodesch\", from the = \"tongue, language\", and \"kodesch\" = \"holy\") is a trading language and Palatine variant of the secret language, Rotwelsch, spoken in the Leiningerland (especially in Carlsberg), where in the late 18th century a large number of vagrants, including many Jews, were settled and where many of them worked as itinerant craftsmen and peddlers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2768961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2768961", "title": "Louis de Beaufront", "text": "Louis de Beaufront\n\nLouis Chevreux (3 October 1855, Paris – 8 January 1935, Thézy-Glimont), commonly known as Louis de Beaufront, was a major influence in the development of Ido, an international auxiliary language. Beaufront was initially an advocate of Esperanto and was largely responsible for its early diffusion in western Europe as well as one of its first French proponents.\n\nBeaufront first discovered Esperanto in 1888 and in 1889 founded Société Pour la Propagation de l'Espéranto (SPPE). In 1900, he wrote the \"Commentaire sur la grammaire espéranto\".\n\nHe was chosen to represent unmodified Esperanto before the Committee of the Delegation for the Adoption of an International Auxiliary Language, attending the meetings of the Delegation Committee in October, 1907. While ostensibly representing Esperanto before the Committee, he was secretly secondary author after Louis Couturat of the original Ido project which impressed the Delegation Committee and led to the reform of Esperanto by the Committee's Permanent Commission. Letters that are kept in the Department of Planned Languages and Esperanto Museum in Vienna show that he denied any co-authorship of Ido. Beaufront remained a proponent of Ido thereafter, and wrote the influential Ido grammar \"Kompleta Gramatiko Detaloza\", published in 1925.\n\nHis personality was an unusual one. He claimed to be a Marquis, and claimed to have had an English grandmother, but there is no evidence for either of these claims.\n\nHe appears as a character in Joseph Skibell's 2010 novel, \"A Curable Romantic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24564977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24564977", "title": "Lumber hooker", "text": "Lumber hooker\n\nLumber hooker is a nautical term for a Great Lakes ship designed to carry her own deck load of lumber and to tow one or two barges. The barges were schooner barges: large old schooners stripped of their masts and running gear to carry large cargoes of lumber.\n\n"}
{"id": "269982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269982", "title": "Mixed franking", "text": "Mixed franking\n\nIn philately, a mixed franking is an occurrence of postage stamps of more than one country or issuing entity on a single cover — or the occurrence of postage stamps of more than one currency of a country or issuing identity on a single cover. Since nearly all countries of the world have agreed to deliver each other's mail, it is unusual to need more than the stamps of the originating country; valid mixed frankings are uncommon and valued by collectors.\n\nBefore the advent of the Universal Postal Union in 1874, sending international mail was quite an adventure; it might be necessary to affix the stamps of the destination country in addition to those of the origin, and in the worst cases, possibly for several other countries along the way. Sometimes the letter was held until the recipient brought stamps, they were affixed and cancelled, and the result handed to the recipient. Since this only happened during the first few decades of stamp usage, and only for the few letters that were sent great distances, very few covers have survived. For some combinations, only single examples have survived, and command spectacular prices among collectors.\n\nAnother form of mixed franking occurs in transitional periods, either as a way to help the public use up the stamps of a defunct government, or involuntarily as a propaganda tool.\n\nAn example of involuntary mixed franking is when Germany took over Austria in the Anschluss in 1938; during the several months while Austrian stamps were still accepted, Austrians sending mail to Germany were required to include a German stamp on the envelope.\n\nSometimes illegitimate mixed frankings occur when a postal user adds another country's stamps to an envelope just for fun. Many countries' postal regulation require clerks to refuse to handle these, even if the correct postage of the country is present, because they slow down the sorting process, but such covers can still get through the system.\n"}
{"id": "25903891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25903891", "title": "Mohua Mukherjee", "text": "Mohua Mukherjee\n\nDr. Mohua Mukherjee (born August 1952) is a social activist and an author from Kolkata, West Bengal. She was schooled at Gokhale Memorial School, Kolkata. She married Alok Mukherjee in 1974. Her achievements include social activism, writing, documentary and short film making, artistry, theatre work and socio-economic research about tribes of India. She is also founder of a non-governmental organization named \"Sanyog Audio Visual and Welfare Society\".\n\nAfter marriage she took a freelance job at Hotel Oberoi Grand–Kolkata as an interior decorator. She joined St. Thomas Kidderpore as an art teacher. She started an art school at home for children, named ‘Rekhae Chonde’. She combined the art school with Indian classical dancing, the combination called \"Rekahe\" (for painting) and \"Chonde\" (for dancing). She also created a ‘Dance Drama Group\" in Kolkata named \"Roopkatha\"..\n\nShe started social work through projects in conjunction with UNICEF, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, WILD, AIIPH, World Health Organization and India-Canada Environment Facility (ICEF) through her own NGO named \"Sanyog Audio Visual and Welfare Society\", which focuses on issues such as homelessness and health. in urban and rural areas of West Bengal. She developed an interest on Tribal life and joined the movement for the welfare of tribes in rural Bengal and adjacent areas.\n\nShe also began working in journalism and has been published in newspapers and magazines such as “Ulto Rath”, “Shanonda”, “AnandaBazar Patrika”, “Bartaman” and “AajKaal”.\n\nBooks written by Mukherjee include \"Lal Maati Shaal Bon\", \"Gohin Manush He\", \"Chandoi Birhor\" and \"Birhor towards next Millennium\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55123112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55123112", "title": "Mudnakudu Chinnaswamy", "text": "Mudnakudu Chinnaswamy\n\nMudnakudu Chinnaswamy (born 22 September 1954) is a noted Indian speaker, poet and writer supporting the voice of Dalits and unprevilaged communities\n. His writings advocates for eradicating caste system, untouchability and against fundamentalism. His works have been translated into various Indian languages, English, Spanish. He has been conferred with Karnataka Sahitya Academy Award.\n\nBorn on 22 September 1954 in the village Mudnakudu of Chamarajanagar dist. in the state of Karnataka, India in a dalit family. His father was Basavarjaiah and mother Gowramma. He has M.Com. M.A.(Kan). D.Lit., as educational qualifications. He has served as Financial Advisor in Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation.\n\nMudnakudu Chinnaswamy’s first collection of poetry, \"Kondigalu Matthu Mullubeligalu\" (Links and barbed fences) published in 1989 brought a new wave of change in otherwise stagnant Kannada Dalit-Bandaya (protest) Poetry and appreciated by critics, writers and poetry lovers. And so far, six collections of poetry have been published. The essence of the poetry is dalit experiences which are empirical in nature and expressed with intensity which attracted discussions and deliberations in the literary circles. Prof. Dharanendra Kurakuri has translated selected poems into Hindi and were published by Amar Prakashan, Kanpur in 2001 under the caption ‘Angar Ki Choti Per’ (Over the mountain of embers)\n\nProf.Rowena Hill (), a British born Venezuelan poet has translated 47 selected poems into Spanish and English. A Spanish literary magazine from Columbia Arquitrave has published 10 of them in its June 2003 issue. The Spanish version has been later published by the Cultural dept. of Venezuelan Govt., (CONAC) in 2004 under ‘world poetry series’. And the English translation has been published by ‘erbacce press’ Liverpool, UK in 2016. Poems have also been translated into Hebrew Indian vernaculars like Bengali, Marathi, Telugu, Malayalam and Urdu.\n\nAs many as 27 poems and a play have been prescribed as curriculum in the language text books of various courses by the Government of Karnataka, Government of Maharashtra, CBSC, New Delhi, and Universities in Karnataka and West Bengal, also in UK. Apart from poetry he has also worked in other genres of literature and brought out collections of short stories, essays, plays and monographs etc.,\n\nHe has been felicitated with Karnataka Sahitya Academy Award in 2009 and Karnataka State Rajyotsava Award in 2014 for life time achievement.\n\nHis contribution to Kannada literature are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47294330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47294330", "title": "Mundur Krishnankutty", "text": "Mundur Krishnankutty\n\nAnupurath Krishnankutty, popularly known as Mundur Krishnankutty (17 July 1935 – 4 June 2005), was a Malayalam–language writer from Kerala state, India. He was born in Mundur in Palghat to parents Manakulangara Govinda Pisharody and Anupurath Madhavi Pisharasyar. He completed schooling from Parali High School and mastered in English literature from Government Victoria College, Palakkad. He obtained a B.Ed degree from NSS College, Ottapalam and worked as a teacher in Palakkad VVP High School, Palakkad PMG High School and Chittoor Training School.\n\nHe wrote his first short story \"Kannalichekkan\" (Cow boy) in 1956 which was published in \"Navayugam\". The same year another story titled \"Ambalavasikal\" (Temple workers) was published in the \"Mathrubhumi Illustrated Weekly\". He had written more than 200 short stories and three novels. His stories are renowned for their realistic portrayal of life in Palakkad villages, focusing on the transformational crisis of an agrarian society. He won many awards including the Odakkuzhal Award, Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award and the Cherukad Award for his short stories. His story \"Moonnamathoral\" was regarded by T. Padmanabhan as one of the world's ten best stories. He was also a known film and TV serial actor.\n\nKrishnankutty died on 4 June 2005. He was undergoing treatment for liver problems. His wife Radha predeceased him (She committed suicide); her death is touchingly portrayed by Krishnankutty in the story \"Oru Lakshanam Kettonte Vedantham\". He is survived by his only son Dileepan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2597853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2597853", "title": "Naomi Baron", "text": "Naomi Baron\n\nNaomi S. Baron is a linguist and professor of linguistics at the Department of Language and Foreign Studies, at American University, in Washington, D.C.. Her areas of research and interest include computer-mediated communication, writing and technology, language in social context, language acquisition and the history of English. She is also interested in language use in the computer age, instant messaging, text messaging, mobile phone practices, cross-cultural research on mobile phones, Human multitasking behavior, and Facebook online social interaction usage by American college students.\n\nShe was a Guggenheim Fellow, Fulbright Fellow, and president of the Semiotic Society of America, and has published many books.\n\nHer book, \"Always On: Language in an Online and Mobile World\", which was published in 2008, won the English-Speaking Union’s HRH The Duke of Edinburgh ESU English Language Book Award for 2008.\n\nBaron has taught at Brown University, the Rhode Island School of Design, Emory University, Southwestern University, and at American University since 1987.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "416867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416867", "title": "Nauruan language", "text": "Nauruan language\n\nThe Nauruan or Nauru<ref name=\"ISO 639-2/RA\"></ref><ref name=\"ISO 639-3/RA\"></ref> language (\"dorerin Naoero\") is an Oceanic language, spoken natively by around 6,000 people in the island country of Nauru. Its relationship to the other Micronesian languages is not well understood.\n\nNauruan has 16–17 consonant phonemes. Nauruan makes phonemic contrasts between velarized and palatalized labial consonants. Velarization is not apparent before long back vowels and palatalization is not apparent before non-low front vowels.\n\nVoiceless stops are geminated and nasals also contrast in length. Dental stops and become and respectively before high front vowels.\n\nThe approximants become fricatives in \"emphatic pronunciation.\" transcribes them as and but also remarks that they contrast with the non-syllabic allophones of the high vowels.\n\nDepending on stress, may be a flap or a trill. The precise phonetic nature of is unknown. transcribes it as and speculates that it may pattern like palatalized consonants and be partially devoiced.\n\nBetween a vowel and word-final , an epenthetical appears.\n\nThere are 12 phonemic vowels (six long, six short). In addition to the allophony in the following table from , a number of vowels reduce to :\n\nNon-open vowels (that is, all but ) become non-syllabic when preceding another vowel, as in → ('hide').\n\nStress is on the penultimate syllable when the final syllable ends in a vowel, on the last syllable when it ends in a consonant, and initial with reduplications.\n\nIn the Nauruan written language, 17 letters were originally used:\n\nThe letters c, f, h, l, s, v, x, y and z were not included. With the growing influence of foreign languages (most of all German, Indonesian, Tok Pisin and Kiribati) more letters were incorporated into the Nauruan alphabet. In addition, phonetic differences of a few vowels arose, so that umlauts and other similar-sounding sounds were indicated with a tilde.\n\nIn 1938 there was an attempt by the Nauruan language committee and Timothy Detudamo to make the language easier to read for Europeans and Americans. It was intended to introduce as many diacritical symbols as possible for the different vowel sounds to state the variety of the Nauruan language in writing. It was decided to introduce only a grave accent in the place of the former tilde, so that the umlauts \"õ\" and \"ũ\" were replaced by \"ò\" and \"ù\". The \"ã\" was substituted with \"e\".\n\nAlso, \"y\" was introduced in order to differentiate words with the English \"j\" (\"puji\"). Thus, words like \"ijeiji\" were changed to \"iyeyi\". In addition, \"ñ\" (which represented the velar nasal) was replaced with \"ng\", to differentiate the Spanish Ñ, \"bu\" and \"qu\" were replaced with \"bw\" and \"kw\" respectively, \"ts\" was replaced with \"j\" (since it represented a pronunciation similar to English \"j\"), and the \"w\" written at the end of words was removed.\n\nThese reforms were only partly carried out: the umlauts \"õ\" and \"ũ\" are still written with tildes. However, the letters \"ã\" and \"ñ\" are now only seldom used, being replaced with \"e\" and \"ng\", as prescribed by the reform. Likewise, the writing of the double consonants \"bw\" and \"kw\" has been implemented. Although the \"j\" took the place of \"ts\", certain spellings still use \"ts.\" For example, the districts Baiti and Ijuw (according to the reform \"Beiji\" and \"Iyu\") are still written with the old writing style. The \"y\" has largely become generally accepted.\n\nToday the following 29 Latin letters are used.\n\nAccording to a report published in 1937 in Sydney, there was a diversity of dialects until Nauru became a colony of Germany in 1888, and until the introduction of publication of the first texts written in Nauruan. The variations were largely so different that people of various districts often had problems understanding each other completely. With the increasing influence of foreign languages and the increase of Nauruan texts, the dialects blended into a standardized language, which was promoted through dictionaries and translations by Alois Kayser and Philip Delaporte.\n\nToday there is significantly less dialectal variation. In the district of Yaren and the surrounding area there is an eponymous dialect spoken, which is only slightly different.\n\nIn 1907, Philip Delaporte published his pocket German-Nauruan dictionary. The dictionary is small (10.5 × 14 cm), with 65 pages devoted to the glossary and an additional dozen to phrases, arranged alphabetically by the German. Approximately 1650 German words are glossed in Nauruan, often by phrases or synonymous forms. There are some 1300 'unique' Nauruan forms in the glosses, including all those occurring in phrases, ignoring diacritical marks. The accents used there are not common; just one accent (the tilde) is in use today.\n\nThe following example of text is from the Bible (Genesis, 1.1–1.8):\n\n\"Ñaga ã eitsiõk õrig imim, Gott õrig ianweron me eb. Me eitsiõk erig imin ñana bain eat eb, me eko õañan, mi itũr emek animwet ijited, ma Anin Gott õmakamakur animwet ebõk. Me Gott ũge, Enim eaõ, me eaõen. Me Gott ãt iaõ bwo omo, me Gott õekae iaõ mi itũr. Me Gott eij eget iaõ bwa Aran, me E ij eget itũr bwa Anũbũmin. Ma antsiemerin ma antsioran ar eken ũrõr adamonit ibũm. Me Gott ũge, Enim tsinime firmament inimaget ebõk, me enim ekae ebõk atsin eat ebõk. Me Gott eririñ firmament, mõ õ ekae ebõk ñea ijõñin firmament atsin eat ebõk ñea itũgain firmament, mõ ũgan. Me Gott eij egen firmament bwe Ianweron. Ma antsiemerin ma antsioran ar eke ũrõr karabũmit ibũm.\"\n\nIt is notable that the Nauruan vocabulary contains a few German loanwords (e.g. \"Gott\", God; and \"Firmament\", celestial sphere), which is traced back to the strong influence of German missionaries. There are also Latin loanwords such as \"õrig\" (from Lat. \"origo\", beginning) that appear.\n\n"}
{"id": "4105321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4105321", "title": "Ogden's lemma", "text": "Ogden's lemma\n\nIn the theory of formal languages, Ogden's lemma (named after William F. Ogden) is a generalization of the pumping lemma for context-free languages.\n\nOgden's lemma states that if a language formula_1 is context-free, then there exists some number formula_2 (where formula_3 may or may not be a pumping length) such that for any string formula_4 of length at least formula_3 in formula_1 and every way of \"marking\" formula_3 or more of the positions in formula_4, formula_4 can be written as\nwith strings formula_11 and formula_12, such that\n\n\nIn the special case where every position is marked, Ogden's lemma is equivalent to the pumping lemma for context-free languages. Ogden's lemma can be used to show that certain languages are not context-free in cases where the pumping lemma is not sufficient. An example is the language formula_18.\nOgden's lemma can also be used to prove the inherent ambiguity of some languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4780165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4780165", "title": "Overline", "text": "Overline\n\nAn overline, overscore, or overbar, is a typographical feature of a horizontal line drawn immediately above the text. In mathematical notation, an overline has been used for a long time as a \"vinculum\", a way of showing that certain symbols belong together. The original use in Ancient Greek was to indicate compositions of Greek letters as Greek numerals. In Latin it indicates Roman numerals multiplied by a thousand and it forms medieval abbreviations (sigla). Marking one or more words with a continuous line above the characters is sometimes called \"overstriking\", though overstriking generally refers to printing one character on top of an already-printed character.\n\nAn overline, that is, a single line above a chunk of text, should not be confused with the macron, a diacritical mark placed above (or sometimes below) \"individual\" letters. The macron is narrower than the character box. Since ISO and Unicode Consortium assign names to characters in their unique fashion and often ignore the established typographical terminology, Unicode includes two characters (formerly ) and that \"both\" look like an overlined space in most fonts, similar to a mirrored underscore symbol. An overline proper can be encoded as a Unicode diacritic; see below.\n\nAn overbar over a letter is a traditional way of specifying certain Latin abbreviations. For example, s̅ (s overbar) stands for Latin, \"sine\" (meaning \"without\"), c̅ (c overbar) is an abbreviation for Latin, \"cum\" (meaning \"with\"), ā (a overbar) stands for Latin, \"ante\" (meaning \"before\"), and p̄ (p overbar) stands for Latin, \"post\" (meaning \"after\").\n\nIn mathematics, an overline can be used as a vinculum.\n\nThe vinculum can indicate a line segment:\nThe vinculum can indicate a repeating decimal value:\nWhen it is not possible to format the number so that the overline is over the digit(s) that repeat, one overline character is placed to the left of the digit(s) that repeat:\n\nHistorically, the vinculum was used to group together symbols so that they could be treated as a unit. Today, parentheses are more commonly used for this purpose.\n\nThe overline is used to indicate a sample mean:\n\nSurvival functions or complementary cumulative distribution functions are often denoted by placing an overline over the symbol for the cumulative:formula_4\nIn set theory and some electrical engineering contexts, negation operators can be written as an overline above the term or expression to be negated, for example:\n\nCommon set theory notation:\n\nElectrical engineering notation:\nin which implied multiplication, the times (cross) and the dot all mean logical AND, and the plus sign means logical OR.\n\nBoth illustrate De Morgan's laws and its mnemonic, \"break the line, change the sign\".\nIn common logarithms a bar over the characteristic indicates that it is negative whilst the mantissa remains positive. This notation avoids the need for separate tables to convert positive and negative logarithms back to their original numbers.\n\nRarely, a bar over a number or expression means its multiplicative inverse which is more commonly shown as a fraction or negative exponent\nThe overline notation can indicate a complex conjugate and analogous operations.\nIn physics, an overline sometimes indicates a vector, although boldface and arrows are also commonly used:\n\nIn crystallography, an overline indicates an improper rotation or a negative number:\n\nIn computational neuroscience, an overline is used to indicate the 'maximal' conductances in Hodgkin-Huxley models. This goes back to at least the landmark paper published by Nobel prize winners Alan Lloyd Hodgkin and Andrew Fielding Huxley around 1952.\n\nOverlines are used in subatomic particle physics to denote antiparticles for some particles (with the alternate being distinguishing based on electric charge). For example, the proton is denoted as , and its corresponding antiparticle is denoted as .\n\nAn active low signal is designated by an overline, e.g. , representing logical negation.\n\nSome Morse code prosigns can be expressed as two or three characters run together, and an overline is often used to signify this. The most famous is the distress signal, .\n\nAn overline-like symbol is traditionally used in Syriac text to mark abbreviations and numbers. It has dots at each end and the center. In German it is occasionally used to indicate a pair of letters which cannot both be fitted into the available space.\n\nWhen Morse code is written out as text, overlines are used to distinguish prosigns and other concatenated character groups from strings of individual characters.\n\nX-bar theory makes use of overbar notation to indicate differing levels of syntactic structure. Certain structures are represented by adding an overbar to the unit, as in . Due to difficulty in typesetting the overbar, the prime symbol is often used instead, as in X′. Contemporary typesetting software, such as LaTeX, has made typesetting overbars considerably simpler; both prime and overbar markers are accepted usages. Some variants of X-bar notation use a double-bar (or double-prime) to represent phrasal-level units.\n\nX-bar theory derives its name from the overbar. One of the core proposals of the theory was the creation of an intermediate syntactic node between phrasal (XP) and unit (X) levels; rather than introduce a different label, the intermediate unit was marked with a bar.\n\nIn HTML using CSS, the overline is implemented via text-decoration property: codice_1, results in: .\nIt supports also other typographical features with horizontal lines: underline (a line below the text) and strikethrough (a line through the text).\n\nAs mentioned above, Unicode includes two graphic characters, and . They are compatibility equivalent to the with non-spacing diacritics and respectively; the latter allows an overline to be placed over any character. As with any combining character, it appears in the same character box as the character that logically precedes it: for example, x̅, compared to x‾. A series of overlined characters usually results in an unbroken line, depending on the font (for example, 1̅2̅3̅).\n\nFor East Asian (CJK) computing, is available. Despite the name, Unicode maps this character to both U+203E and U+00AF.\n\nUnicode maps the overline-like character from ISO/IEC 8859-1 and code page 850 to the symbol mentioned above. In a reversal of its official name (and compatibility decomposition), it is much wider than an actual macron diacritic over most letters, and actually wider than in most fonts. In Microsoft Windows, U+00AF can be entered with the keystrokes Alt+0175 (where numbers are entered from the numeric keypad).\nIn GTK/GTK+, the symbol can be added using the keystrokes to activate Unicode input, then type \"00AF\" as the code for the character.\n\nThe Unicode character is used to mark Syriac abbreviations and numbers. However, several computer environments do not render this line correctly or at all.\n\nIn Microsoft Word, overstriking of text can be accomplished with the codice_2 field code. The field code codice_3 produces and the field code codice_4 produces . (Doesn't work in Word 2010; it is necessary to insert MS Equation object).\nWindows: Alt+0773 (once before character, one more time after character).\n\nLibreOffice has direct support for several styles of overline in its \"Format / Character / Font Effects\" dialog.\n\nOverstriking of longer sections of text, such as in , can also be produced in many text processors as text markup as a special form of understriking.\n\nIn LaTeX, a text <text> can be overlined with codice_5. The inner codice_6 is necessary to\noverride the math-mode (here invoked by the dollar signs) which the codice_7 demands.\n"}
{"id": "38106110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38106110", "title": "Pemako Tshangla dialect", "text": "Pemako Tshangla dialect\n\nThe Pemakö dialect ( , also \"Padma bkod skad\") is a dialect of the Tshangla language. It is the predominant speech in the Pemako region of the Tibet Autonomous Region and an adjoining contiguous area south of the McMahon line in Arunachal Pradesh in India. Though Tshangla is not a Tibetic language, it shares many similarities with Classical Tibetan, particularly in its vocabulary. Many Tibetan loanwords are used in Pemako, due to centuries of close contact with various Tibetan tribes in the Pemako area. Pemako Tshangla has undergone tremendous changes due to its isolation and Tibetan influence.\n\nBelow appears a table of Tshangla consonants according to Andvik (2010). Non-native phonemes, in parentheses, are contrasted only marginally with native sounds: /ɬ/ is often nativized to /l/; /dz/ becomes /z/; and /ʑ/ becomes /y/.\nThe above table generally describes onset consonants. Consonant clusters in the onset position are limited to consonant plus /r/, with the exception of the syllable /pɕi/, used on only two contexts. Intervocalic positioning of aspirated onsets /pʰ/ /tʰ/, and /kʰ/ results in lenition to /ɸ/, /θ/, and /x/ or /h/, respectively, with some exceptions. Syllable-final consonants are limited to /p/, /t/, /k/, /s/, /m/, /n/, and /ŋ/.\n\nTshangla vowels appear in the chart below, following Andvik (2010). Vowels in parentheses appear in non-native words inherited from Tibetan, Dzongkha, and the latter's archaic liturgical form, Chöke. Non-native front rounded vowels may be nativized as front unrounded vowels.\n\nEver since Pemako was first opened to outside world thousands of people from different walks of life settled in the region, among them, earliest were the Tshangla people from Eastern Bhutan who fled their homeland and took refuge there. Among the first clans of Tshangla people were the Ngatsangpas (Snga Tsang pa)who paved ways for others to join them in their plight for a promised land free from sufferings. The exodus of Tshangla community continued from the beginning of the 17th century until the early 20th century. Political and religious turmoil in Tibet forced many Tibetans to join Tshangla people in Pemako a land where religious serenity pledge through many revered Lamas who had been to this land, prophesied by Guru Rinpoche in the mid 8th century to be a land of final call where devotees would be flocking at the time of Religious persecutions, the last sanctuary for Buddhism, with the time Pemako's popularity grew more and more, with the popularity many Tibetan people particularly from Kham followed their lamas and settled alongside Tshangla populace. Over the period of time Tibetans and Tshangla migrants amalgamated to form an homogeneous group called Pemako pas ( Pad-ma dkod pa). The process of infusion gave birth to a new Tshangla dialect called Pemako dialect. People who reside in Pemako enclave are of mixed blood originated from early Tshangla settlers and different Tibetan tribes, Standard Tibetan is also spoken in Pemako, with many different languages such Khampa language, Kongpo dialect, Poba Language etc.\n\nThere are approximately 10,000 Tshangla speaker in Upper Pemako, Tibet, 4000–5000 in Lower Pemako, in Arunachal Pradesh and approximately 3500–4000 Tibetan Tshangla community residing in three different Tibetan settlements, Tezu, Miao in Arunachal Pradesh and Orissa. Many Pemakos in the past have spread to western countries as well.\n"}
{"id": "9899044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9899044", "title": "Phuan language", "text": "Phuan language\n\nPhuan is a Tai language spoken in Laos, Thailand and Cambodia.\n\nIn Thailand, Phuan is spoken in Chachoengsao, Chaiyaphum, Lopburi, Nakhon Nayok, Phetchabun, Phichit, Prachinburi, and Saraburi provinces; it is also spoken in an isolated area of Bueng Kan Province, and in one village south of Bangkok (\"Ethnologue\").\n\nThere are approximately 5,000 Phuan in Mongkol Borei District of Banteay Meanchey Province in Cambodia, as well in Battambang Province.\n\n"}
{"id": "28192812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28192812", "title": "Pre-Islamic scripts in Afghanistan", "text": "Pre-Islamic scripts in Afghanistan\n\nAfghanistan possesses a rich linguistic legacy of pre-Islamic scripts, which existed before being displaced by the Arabic alphabet, after the Islamic conquest of Afghanistan.\nAmong these scripts are Sharada, Gandhari, Kharosthi, Bactrian and Brāhmī . For thousands of years, Afghanistan was inhabited by Indo-Vedic people and thus all ancient documents, tracts, monuments and remains are of Hindu origins. Later, Buddhism became the major force in Afghanistan and brought with it its own liturgical languages.\n\nAbundant archeological evidence in the form of inscriptions, numismatics and manuscripts has provided traces of the precursors of the contemporary Languages of Afghanistan such as Pashto, Dari and other Dardic languages.\n\nRecent Archeological unearthings of Sanskrit inscriptions attest to the prevalence of the Sanskrit alphabet in Afghanistan. \n\nSome later Sanskrit inscriptions in late Brahmi of about around the fifth to eighth centuries have also been found in Afghanistan in recent decades. Worthy of note are the Dilberjin fresco inscriptions (Drevniaia Baktriia); the Gardez inscriptions on an image of Ganesa; and the Uma Maheshvara image inscriptions from Tapa Skandar. Several Buddhist inscriptions of this period with the Buddhist creed on votive clay tablets have also been discovered at Ghazni\n\nThe Kushan Empire employed Sanskrit abundantly for use in Buddhist literary texts, as is evident from epigraphic evidence.\n\nThe presence of Buddhist literary texts in Sanskrit of the Kushan period goes hand in hand with the codification of the Sanskrit canon of the Sarvastivada school in Kashmir at the Buddhist council in the time of Kanishk.\n\nHistorians attest the largest population of the region including Bactria spoke vernacular dialects of Sanskrit.\n\nŚāradā texts have been widely found in Afghanistan; one of them was engraved on a marble statue of the Indian elephant god Ganesh that was found near Gardez. Another was inscribed on the large \"Uma Maheshvara\" from \"Tepe Skandar\", north of Kabul. The Śāradā inscriptions all seem to date to the 8th century CE.\n\nBetween 750 and 1000 A.D., the Shahi's issued silver coins to provide currency for eastern Afghanistan and Gandhara. Most of the coins have an obverse legend in either Spalpati Deva or Samanta Deva, which are Śāradā scripts.\n\nIn what was Gandhara (Eastern Afghanistan and Northern Pakistan), scholars have found a large quantity of Buddhist scrolls, written in the Gandhari language (a dialect of Sanskrit) with the Kharosthi script. Gandhari most likely was the daily language of the Kushans after they established their empire. From Gandhara, this script spread east and north into various parts of Central Asia. In the centuries that followed, Kharoshthi became the main script in the Tarim basin (now part of China's Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous region) for writing local languages.\n\nInscriptions and documents in Kharosthi have been found over a broad area in Afghanistan. To the far west and northwest, several specimens have been found at sites along the Kabul River in Afghanistan as far west as Wardak or Khawat, some 20 miles west of Kabul. Recent archaeological excavations have also yielded numerous Kharosthi inscriptions from north of the Hindu Kush, in ancient Bactria, both in sites in northern Afghanistan such as Qunduz and in several places in the former Soviet republics of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18619244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18619244", "title": "SMS language", "text": "SMS language\n\nSMS language, textspeak or texting language is the abbreviated language and slang commonly used with mobile phone text messaging, or other Internet-based communication such as email and instant messaging.\n\nThree features of early mobile phone messaging encouraged users to use abbreviations:\n\nOnce it became popular it took on a life of its own and was often used outside to write formal emails or letters.\n\nSMS language is similar to that used by those sending telegraphs that charged by the word. It seeks to use the fewest number of letters to produce ultra-concise words and sentiments \nin dealing with space, time and cost constraints of text messaging. This follows from how early SMS permitted only 160 characters and that carriers began charging a small fee for each message sent (and sometimes received). This, together with the difficulty and inefficiency in creating messages led the desire for a more economical language for the new medium. \n\nIt also shares some of these characteristics with Internet and Telex speak following from how its evolution is rather symbiotic to the evolution of use of shorthand in Internet chat rooms. Likewise, such a change sought to accommodate the small number of characters allowed per message, and to increase convenience for the time-consuming and often small keyboards on mobile phones. In addition, similarly elliptical styles of writing can be traced to the days of telegraphese 120 years back, where telegraph operators were reported to use abbreviations similar to those used in modern text when chatting amongst themselves in between sending of official messages. Faramerz Dabhoiwala wrote in \"The Guardian\" in 2016: \"modern usages that horrify linguistic purists in fact have deep historical roots. \"OMG\" was used by a septuagenarian naval hero, admiral of the fleet Lord Fisher, in 1917\".\n\nNevertheless, the invention of mobile phone messaging is considered to be the source for the invention of SMS language. In general, SMS language thus permits the sender to type less and communicate more quickly than one could without such shortcuts. One example is the use of \"tomoz\" instead of \"tomorrow\". Nevertheless, there are no standard rules for the creation and use of SMS languages. Any word may be shortened (for example, \"text\" to \"txt\"). Words can also be combined with numbers to make them shorter (for example, \"later\" to \"l8r\"), using the numeral \"8\" for its homophonic quality.\n\nSome may view SMS language to be a nascent dialect of the English language, that is a dialect strongly if not completely derivative of the English language. This may not be so. Such generalization may have risen from the fact that mobile phones had only been able to support a limited number of default languages in the early stages of its conception and distribution.\n\nA mobile operating system (OS) such as Symbian and language packs enable the linguistic localization of products that are equipped with such interfaces, where the current Symbian release (Symbian Belle) supports the scripts and orthographies of over 48 languages and dialects, though such provisions are by no means fully comprehensive as to the languages used by users all over the world. Researcher Mohammad Shirali-Shahreza (2007) further observes that mobile phone producers offer support \"of local language of the country\" within which their phone sets are to be distributed.\n\nNevertheless, various factors contribute as additional constraints to the use of non-English languages and scripts in SMS. This motivates the anglicization of such languages, especially those using non-Latin orthographies (i.e. not using Latin alphabets) following for instance, the even more limited message lengths involved when using for example, Cyrillic or Greek letters. On the flip side, researcher Gillian Perrett observes the de-anglicization of the English language following its use and incorporation into non-English linguistic contexts.\n\nAs such, on top of the measures taken to minimize space, time and cost constraints in SMS language, further constraints upon the varied nature and characteristics of languages worldwide add to the distinct properties and style of SMS language(s).\n\nThe primary motivation for the creation and use of SMS language was to convey a comprehensible message using the fewest number of characters possible. This was for two reasons; one, telecommunication companies limited the number of characters per SMS, and also charged the user per SMS sent. To keep costs down, users had to find a way of being concise while still communicating the desired message. Two, typing on a phone is normally slower than with a keyboard, and capitalization is even slower. \nAs a result, punctuation, grammar, and capitalization are largely ignored. In many countries, people now have access to unlimited text options in their monthly plan, although this varies widely from country to country, and operator to operator. However, screens are still small and the input problem persists, so SMS language is still widely used for brevity.\n\nObservations and classifications as to the linguistic and stylistic properties of SMS language have been made and proposed by Crispin Thurlow, López Rúa and David Crystal among many others. Although they are by no means exhaustive, some of these marked properties involve the use of:\n\n\nThere are many examples of words or phrases that share the same abbreviations (e.g., \"lol\" could mean \"laugh out loud\", \"lots of love\", or \"little old lady\", and \"cryn\" could mean \"crayon\" or \"cryin(g)\").\n\nFor words that have no common abbreviation, users most commonly remove the vowels from a word, and the reader is required to interpret a string of consonants by re-adding the vowels (e.g. \"dictionary\" becomes \"dctnry\" and \"keyboard\" becomes \"kybrd\"). Omission of words, especially function words (e.g.: determiners like \"a\" and \"the\") are also employed as part of the effort to overcome time and space constraints.\n\nThe advent of predictive text input and smartphones featuring full QWERTY keyboards may contribute to a reduction in the use of shortenings in SMS language.\n\nRecipients may have to interpret the abbreviated words depending on the context in which they are being used. For instance, should someone use \"ttyl, lol\" they may probably mean \"talk to you later, lots of love\" as opposed to \"talk to you later, laugh out loud\". In another instance, if someone were to use \"omg, lol\" they may perhaps mean \"oh my god, laugh out loud\" as opposed to \"oh my god, lots of love\".\n\nTherefore, co-textual references and context are crucial when interpreting textese, and it is precisely this shortfall that critics cite as a reason not to use it (although the English language in general, like many other languages, has many words that have different meanings in different contexts).\n\nSMS language does not always obey or follow standard grammar, and additionally the words used are not usually found in standard dictionaries or recognized by language academies.\n\nThe feature of \"reactive tokens\" that is ubiquitous in Internet Relay Chat (IRC), is also commonly found in SMS language. Reactive tokens include phrases or words like \"yeah I know\", which signifies a reaction to a previous message. In SMS language, however, the difference is that many words are shortened unlike in spoken speech.\n\nSome tokens of the SMS language can be likened to a rebus, using pictures and single letters or numbers to represent whole words (e.g. \"i <3 u\", which uses the pictogram of a heart for \"love\", and the letter \"u\" replaces \"you\").\n\nThe dialect has a few hieroglyphs (codes comprehensible to initiates) and a range of face symbols.\n\nProsodic features in SMS language aim to provide added semantic and syntactic information and context from which recipients can use to deduce a more contextually relevant and accurate interpretation. These may aim to convey the textual equivalent of verbal prosodic features such as facial expression and tone of voice Indeed, even though SMS language exists in the format of written text, it closely resembles normal speech in that it does not have a complicated structure and that its meaning is greatly contextualised.\n\nIn the case of capitalization in SMS language, there are three scenarios:\n\nSMS messages with:\n\nMost SMS messages have done away with capitalization. Use of capitalizations on the first word of a message may in fact, not be intentional, and may likely be due to the default capitalization setting of devices.\n\nCapitalization too may encode prosodic elements, where copious use may signify the textual equivalent of raised voice to indicate heightened emotion.\n\nJust as body language and facial expressions can alter how speech is perceived, emoji and emoticons can alter the meaning of a text message, the difference being that the real tone of the SMS sender is less easily discerned merely by the emoticon. Using a smiling face can be perceived as being sarcastic rather than happy, thus the reader has to decide which it is by looking at the whole message.\n\nUse of punctuation and capitalization to form emoticons distracts from the more traditional function of such features and symbols. Nevertheless, uses do differ across individuals and cultures. For example, overpunctuation may simply be used to communicate paralinguistic aspects of communication without the need to create an emotion from it like so: \"Hello!!!!\".\n\nWhile vowels and punctuation of words in SMS language are generally omitted, David Crystal observes that apostrophes occur unusually frequently. He cites an American study of 544 messages, where occurrence of apostrophes in SMS language is approximately 35 percent. This is unexpected, seeing that it is a hassle to input an apostrophe in a text message with the multiple steps involved. The use of apostrophes cannot be totally attributed to users attempting to disambiguate words that might otherwise be misunderstood without it.\n\nThere are not that many cases in English where leaving out the apostrophe causes misunderstanding of the message. For example, \"we're\" without the apostrophe could be misread as \"were\". Even so, these are mostly understood correctly despite being ambiguous, as readers can rely on other cues such as part of sentence and context where the word appears to decide what the word should be. For many other words like \"Im\" and \"Shes\", there is no ambiguity. Since it is not imperative that users use apostrophes to ensure that their message is understood accurately, this phenomenon may in part be attributed to texters wanting to maintain clarity so that the message can be more easily understood in a shorter amount of time. The widespread mobile phone auto-correct feature contributes to the frequency of the apostrophe in SMS messages, since, even without user awareness, it will insert an apostrophe in many common words, such as \"I'm\", \"I'll\", and \"I'd\".\n\nUsers may also use spellings that reflect their illocutionary force and intention rather than using the standard spelling. For example, the use of \"haha\" to signify \"standard\" laughter, and \"muahaha\" to encode perhaps more raucous or evil sound of laughter.\n\nIn this, regional variations in spelling can also be observed. As such, SMS language, with its intergroup variations, also serves as an identity marker.\n\nSMS language has yet to be accepted as a conventional and stable form, dialect and language. As a result, (as much as it is also a consequence), notable lexicographical efforts and publications (e.g. dictionaries) dealing specifically with SMS language have yet to emerge. This is perhaps with the exception of the SMS dictionary that the service provider Vodacom, provides its clients with as a supplement to their cellphone purchase. However, as a result text message slang has aided many children's language. By constantly using this ungrammatical form of texting so frequently, it has become a part of their \"normal language\" .\n\nVodacom provides lists of abbreviations and acronyms with their meanings in its website. Elsewhere on the Internet, there has been effort to provide dictionaries of sorts for SMS language. Such websites usually have an alphabetical list of \"words\" used in SMS language, together with their intended meanings. Text messages can also be \"translated\" to standard language on certain websites as well, though the \"translations\" are not always accurate.\n\nMany people are likely to use these abbreviations in lower case letters.\n\nEntire sounds within words would often be replaced by a letter or digit that would produce a similar sound when read by itself:\n\nCombinations can shorten single or multiple words:\n\nIn one American study, researchers found that less than 20% of messages used SMS language. Looking at his own texting history, the study's author, linguist David Crystal, said that just 10% of his messages used SMS language.\n\nAccording to research done by Dr. Nenagh Kemp of University of Tasmania, the evolution of \"textese\" is inherently coupled to a strong grasp of grammar and phonetics.\n\nDavid Crystal has countered the claims that SMS has a deleterious effect on language with numerous scholarly studies. The findings are summarized in his book \"\".\nIn his book, Crystal argues that: \nHe further observes that this is by no means a cause for bad spelling, where in fact, texting may lead to an improvement in the literacy of the user.\n\nThere are others who feel that the claims of SMS language being detrimental to English language proficiency are overrated. A study of the written work of 100 students by Freudenberg found that the actual amount of use of SMS language found in the written work was not very significant. Some features of SMS language such as the use of emoticons was not observed in any of the written work by the students. Of all the errors found, quite a substantial amount cannot be attributed to use of SMS language. These included errors that have already appeared even before the advent of SMS language.\n\nThere are also views that SMS language has little or no effect on grammar. Proponents of this view feel that SMS language is merely another language, and since learning a new language does not affect students' proficiency in English grammar, it cannot be said that SMS language can affect their grammar. With proper instruction, students should be able to distinguish between slang, SMS language and correct English and use them in their appropriate contexts.\n\nAccording to a study, though SMS language is faster to write, more time is needed to read it compared to conventional English.\n\nAlthough various other research supports the use of SMS language, the popular notion that text messaging is damaging to the linguistic development of young people persists and many view it as a corruption of the standard form of language.\n\nWelsh journalist and television reporter John Humphrys has criticized SMS language as \"wrecking our language\". The author cites ambiguity as one problem posed, illustrating with examples such as \"lol\", which may either be interpreted to mean \"laughing out loud\", \"lots of love\", and \"little old lady\" depending on the context in which it is being used. Ambiguous words and statements have always been present within languages. In English for example, the word \"duck\" can have more than one meaning. It could be referring to either the bird or the action, and such words are usually disambiguated by looking at the context in which it was written.\n\nThe proliferation of SMS language has been criticized for causing the deterioration of English language proficiency and its rich heritage. Opponents of SMS language feel that it undermines the properties of the English language that have lasted throughout its long history. Furthermore, words within the SMS language that are very similar to their English-language counterparts can be confused by young users as the actual English spelling and can therefore increase the prevalence of spelling mistakes.\n\nHumphrys describes emoticons and textese as \"irritating\" and essentially lazy behavior, and surmises that \"sloppy\" habits gained while using textese will result in students' growing ignorance of proper grammar and punctuation.\n\nUse of SMS language in schools tended to be seen as negative effects. There have been some reports in the media of children using SMS language for essays in school. The New Zealand Qualifications Authority refuted press reports that they had authorized the use of text abbreviations in exam answers, with a spokesperson saying that \"there had been no change to guidelines and there was no specific policy about text language.\"\n\nAccording to Sean Ó Cadhain, abbreviations and acronyms elicits a sense of group identity as users must be familiar with the lingo of their group to be able to comprehend the SMS language used within the group. The ability to use and understand these language short forms that are unique to each group indicates that an individual is part of the group, forging a group identity that excludes outsiders. SMS language is thus thought to be the \"secret code of the youth\" by some. The fact that sometimes, shortened forms are used for reasons other than space constraints can be seen as interlocutors trying to establish solidarity with each other.\n\nAccording to Norwegian researcher Richard Ling, there are differences in the SMS language of females and males. The lexical, morphological and syntactic choices between males and females SMS users suggested to Ling that women are more \"adroit\" and more \"literary\" texters. \nRichard Ling observes:\n\nIn recent years, advertisements have been increasingly influenced by SMS language. The longer the message in the advertisement, the less impression it will leave. Hence, short messages that are more catchy, cost and space saving are more commonly used. The visual effect elicited by SMS language also lends a feeling of novelty that helps to make the advertisement more memorable. For example, an advertisement of a book uses the SMS language: \"EAT RIGHT 4 YOUR TYPE\".\n\nCompanies focusing on the teen market have the tendency to make use of SMS language in their advertising to capture the attention of their target audience. Since teenagers tend to be the ones using SMS language, they are able to relate to advertisements that use SMS language. \nUnilever's advertisement for their novel range of deodorant for teenage girls uses the phrase \"OMG! Moments.\" David Lang, president of the team who created the advertisement commented that they desired to bring across the impression that they identify with youth culture and discourse.\n\nMany other companies like McDonald's have also attempted to pursue the teenage market by using SMS language abbreviations in their commercials. McDonald's in Korea has an online video commercial which concludes with: \"r u ready?\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11000877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11000877", "title": "Sardar Mohammad Khan", "text": "Sardar Mohammad Khan\n\nSardar Mohammad Khan (1 January 1915 – 26 May 1998), also known as \"SMK\", was a renowned Pakistani researcher of linguistics. \n\nHe was born in a Pathan family at Basti Danishmandan (Jalandhar). After doing his secondary and higher secondary education, he did his B.A degree from the University of the Punjab, Lahore in 1934. He joined united Indian Army as a civilian employee and retired as a civilian gazetted officer from the Pakistan Army General Headquarters (G.H.Q.), Rawalpindi in 1969. Being a government servant, under the rules, he could not publish any book until his retirement.\n\nSardar Muhammad Khan gave fifty years of his life to writing the largest Punjabi-Urdu dictionary in the history of Punjabi language. This dictionary, which has been published by the Pakistan Academy of Letters along with Punjabi Adbi Board in 2009, consists of two volumes of more than 3500 pages each. \n\nIt has been written with a scholarly approach, and besides giving meanings and explanations of Punjabi words in Urdu, it also explains idioms, riddles, children's games, traditions, customs and religious terms. His love for dictionaries was evident from the fact that he remembered all the contents of Oxford Dictionary. He said, \"it is the spelling that makes a dictionary: the pronunciation can differ from Peshawar to Sindh, but once you agree on a spelling, one word shall suffice for all\". This Punjabi-Urdu dictionary has been proven to be the most detailed and authoritative on the subject as of 2015.\n\nSardar Mohammad Khan had a command of Arabic, English, Urdu and Persian and could write and speak in these languages fluently. He had thoroughly studied the Quran and Islam and could speak in a scholarly manner on any aspects of this great religion with confidence.\n\nHe also wrote a book on phonetics, \"Aswatiat\" in Urdu. It is a very specialized book. He got it printed in a small press that he himself ran.\n\nHe never did anything half-heartedly. His love for songs that brought him into the subjects of sounds/phonetics and dialects, forms the basis of his philological research in literature. This love made him a scholar of music and he learned to sing 'raags' (a kind of music) and play the sitar.\nHe had a great passion for working on his family history. He worked hard to give details of his ancestors' migration from one place to another with genealogy of the family of the past three hundred years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41325008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41325008", "title": "Settle Stories", "text": "Settle Stories\n\nSettle Stories is a registered charity and company founded in 2010 by Sita Brand to promote storytelling for individuals, communities and organisations. \n\nIn 2010, Sita Brand, a performance storyteller, theatre director, writer, and producer, established Settle Stories in Settle, a small market town in North Yorkshire. Brand proposed a storytelling festival for the town and set about obtaining funding for her idea. Her aims were:\nAt the core of the initiative was a belief by Brand in the power of storytelling to help people learn and communicate universal truths. Brand believes that stories ignite the imagination in ways that help people to listen, learn, make emotional connections with ideas and effectively communicate with others. She also saw the festival as a way of contributing to the economic development of the market town.\n\nFunding was obtained from the Arts Council England, with additional contributions from Craven District Council, Settle Town Council. The first Settle Stories Storytelling Festival was successfully launched in 2010, involving professional storytellers, musicians and other artists. Over 500 people attended, with a similar number of local children taking part in schools-based workshops.\n\nFollowing the success of the 2010 festival, Settle Stories became a registered charity (registered charity no.1141649). Subsequent festivals in each of the following years saw a steady increase in visitors, with over 1,000 attending the 2013 event. The festival has since grown to become the largest storytelling festival in the north of England with over 50 events in 2016.\n\nIn June 2011, Settle Stories established the W R Mitchell Archive, which is a unique collection of audio and visual recordings of life in the North West of England, particularly the Yorkshire Dales. The charity is now in the process of digitising the material and making it available as a resource for learning (see below).\n\nIn August 2012, the charity obtained an office in Settle Town Hall. It has two members of staff but employs others, including performers at the festivals, on a freelance and consultative basis. It has a team of trustees and volunteers, and its Patron is Mike Harding, a well-known Yorkshire author, broadcaster, performer and storyteller.\n\nBy 2013, Settle Stories had involved the following stakeholders in its work:\n\nThe W R Mitchell Archive is a collection of oral history recordings, photographs and other materials collected by Dr W R Mitchell over a 60-year period to record the history of Yorkshire, Cumbria and Lancashire.\n\nDr Mitchell (1928 - 2015) was a journalist, historian, and author of over 100 books and articles on the Dales. He joined \"The Dalesman\" magazine in 1948 and was its editor from 1968–88. From the 1980s onward, Bill toured the region recording on cassette tape the memories of local people on a wide range of topics, but particularly the everyday experiences of people, as remembered and told by Dales people in their own words and dialects. In 1996, in recognition of his work, he was awarded the MBE and was made an honorary Doctor of Letters by the University of Bradford.\n\nBy 2010, Dr Mitchell had amassed a collection of over 300 audio tapes, with an accompanying collection of photographs and some video footage, of his interviewees.\n\nIn January 2012, Settle Stories received a £50,000 Heritage Lottery Fund Grant for a pilot project to digitise a selection of cassette tapes and make the recordings available online. \n\n"}
{"id": "11151707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11151707", "title": "Squib load", "text": "Squib load\n\nA squib load, also known as a squib round, pop and no kick, or just a squib, is a firearm malfunction in which a fired projectile does not have enough force behind it to exit the barrel, and thus becomes stuck. This type of malfunction can be extremely dangerous, as failing to notice that the projectile has become stuck in the barrel may result in another round being fired directly into the obstructed barrel, resulting in a catastrophic failure of the weapon's structural integrity.\n\nSquib rounds are possible in all black powder and smokeless powder based projectile weapons. They are most often caused by negligence in the powder loading process (insufficient or no powder load), or a failure of the primer to ignite the powder at all. In the case of no gunpowder in the cartridge, the primer, when struck, produces just enough force to push the bullet into the barrel but no further. Subsequent rounds will pile up in a very strong weapon or destroy a weaker one. While this occurs most often because of handloading by inexperienced reloaders, squib loads are known to occur even in reputable factory brands. Other causes include deformed bullets and attempting to fire a bullet which is slightly too large for the barrel, although both of these scenarios would more likely result in some variety of catastrophic failure instead of a squib.\nA weapon that has been subjected to the abuse of a stuck bullet then had another one fired, will display a slight bulge in the barrel at the site of the original stuck bullet (provided the weapon survives). This bulge sometimes presents itself as a ring around the barrel or can be detected by sliding one's fingers along the barrel to check for this occurrence should no ring be seen.\n\nSigns of a squib include: \nSquib loads are also referred to as \"pop and no kick\", in recognition of the above symptoms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14888467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14888467", "title": "Tradio", "text": "Tradio\n\nTradio (a portmanteau of \"trade\" and \"radio\") is the name given to a type of talk radio show format where listeners call in to buy or sell items. The concept is analogous to classified ads in local newspapers. \n\nThe format is also often called Swap Shop, Buy Sell or Trade, Biz Baz, or Trading Post.\n\nMost tradio programs follow a similar format to each other. Callers are given a studio line in which they can call in and advertise, for free, a limited number of items for sale, or request an item to purchase from another listener. The caller then gives a phone number so that other listeners can contact the person for further information. Since the increased prevalence of e-mail and other electronic media, most stations permit the sending in of items to sell via e-mail or fax, though due to regular and/or identity theft concerns some stations will assign a code number to anonymize the transaction and keep identifying information off the air. Most stations also permit listeners to send lists of items through postal mail. Tradio programs are particularly associated with the full service format; tradio was commonly found on Independent Local Radio in the UK when it used a similar format (up to around 1990).\n\nThere are usually some limits to what can be bought and sold through tradio programs. Most stations stipulate that only individuals, and no businesses, may use the tradio service, since the financial security of these small stations usually relies on the advertising dollars from these businesses. Federal regulations prohibit the sale of firearms through these services; real estate is also usually not allowed on tradio programs. Restrictions on the sale of automobiles varies from station to station.\n\nThe name \"tradio\" does not apply to any one particular program and there are no national or syndicated tradio programs. It is technically not a franchised format, either. However, the name \"tradio\" has been trademarked by Simply Local Broadcasting and WRIL Pineville, Kentucky.\n\nTypically tradio and similar programs are only heard on small, rural stations; KDKA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania is the largest market with a tradio program, airing weekly on Saturday afternoons. A similarly-styled program titled \"Wheelin' and Dealin' with Dave Ramos\" also airs during the weekends on WTAM in Cleveland, Ohio (but is not in a regular timeslot). In smaller markets, tradio programs can air daily. The smallest radio station in America that airs a Tradio program is KEDU in Ruidoso, New Mexico. The program is on a weekly set schedule Monday through Friday at 9:30am.\n\nVarious Tradio programs have been the target of prank phone calling by \"The Howard Stern Show\"s Richard Christy and Sal Governale.\n"}
{"id": "30863417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863417", "title": "Trumpet voluntary", "text": "Trumpet voluntary\n\nTrumpet Voluntary is the name given to several English keyboard pieces from the Baroque era. A trumpet voluntary is most commonly played on the organ using the trumpet stop, hence the name. Trumpet voluntaries usually consist of a slow introduction followed by a faster section with the right hand playing fanfare-like figures over a simple accompaniment in the left hand.\nIn some instances, the Trumpet is replaced by the Cornet stop, or even a Flute stop. Echo effects are also used sometimes.\n\nThe most celebrated trumpet voluntary is the \"Prince of Denmark's March\", a composition by Jeremiah Clarke written circa. 1700. It is properly a rondo for keyboard and was not originally called a trumpet voluntary. It is very popular as wedding music and was played at the 1981 wedding of Charles, Prince of Wales, and Lady Diana Spencer. This piece, particularly in a well-known arrangement for trumpet, string orchestra and organ by Sir Henry Wood, was incorrectly attributed for years to Henry Purcell. It is now known to have been the work of Clarke. \n\nThe organist and composer John Stanley also wrote a number of trumpet voluntaries, as did Clarke's teacher John Blow.\n\n"}
{"id": "689737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=689737", "title": "Tutti", "text": "Tutti\n\nTutti is an Italian word literally meaning \"all\" or \"together\" and is used as a musical term, for the whole orchestra as opposed to the soloist. It is applied similarly to choral music, where the whole section or choir is called to sing. Music examination boards may instruct candidates to \"play in tuttis\", indicating that the candidate should play both the solo and the tutti sections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9034087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9034087", "title": "Verbmobil", "text": "Verbmobil\n\nVerbmobil was a long-term interdisciplinary Language Technology (esp. Machine Translation) research project with the aim to develop a system that can recognize, translate and produce natural utterances and thus \"translate spontaneous speech robustly and bidirectionally for German/English and German/Japanese\". \n\nVerbmobil research was carried out between 1993 and 2000 and was funded by Germany's Federal Ministry of Research and Technology, the Bundesministerium für Forschung und Technologie with a total of 116m Deutschmarks (roughly 60m euros), industry partners (such as DaimlerChrysler, Siemens and Philips) contributed an additional 52 million DM (26m euros).\n\nIn the Verbmobil II project, Tübingen University created semi-automatically annotated treebanks for German, Japanese and English spontaneous speech.\nTüBa-D/S contains ca. 38,000 sentences or 360,000 words. \nTüBa-E/S contains ca. 30,000 sentences or 310,000 words. \nTüBa-J/S contains ca. 18,000 sentences or 160,000 words.\n\n"}
{"id": "6682427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6682427", "title": "Wanka Quechua", "text": "Wanka Quechua\n\nWanka Quechua is a variety of the Quechua language, spoken in the southern part of Peruvian region of Junín by the Huancas.\n\nWanka Quechua belongs to Quechua I, like Ancash Quechua. It has about 300,000 speakers and three main dialects: Waylla Wanka in Huancayo and Chupaca provinces, Waycha Wanka in Concepción and Shawsha Wanka in Jauja. Rodolfo Cerrón Palomino, a native Wanka speaker, published the first Wanka grammar and dictionary in 1977.\n"}
{"id": "41100800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41100800", "title": "Writing assessment", "text": "Writing assessment\n\nWriting assessment refers to an area of study that contains theories and practices that guide the evaluation of a writer's performance or potential through a writing task. Writing assessment can be considered a combination of scholarship from composition studies and measurement theory within educational assessment. Writing assessment can also refer to the technologies and practices used to evaluate student writing and learning.\n\nWriting assessment began as a classroom practice during the first two decades of the 20th century, though high-stakes and standardized tests also emerged during this time. During the 1930s, College Board shifted from using direct writing assessment to indirect assessment because these tests were more cost-effective and were believed to be more reliable. Starting in the 1950s, more students from diverse backgrounds were attending colleges and universities, so administrators made use of standardized testing to decide where these students should be placed, what and how to teach them, and how to measure that they learned what they needed to learn. The large-scale statewide writing assessments that developed during this time combined direct writing assessment with multiple-choice items, a practice that remains dominant today across U.S. large scale testing programs, such as the SAT and GRE. These assessments usually take place outside of the classroom, at the state and national level. However, as more and more students were placed into courses based on their standardized testing scores, writing teachers began to notice a conflict between what students were being tested on—grammar, usage, and vocabulary—and what the teachers were actually teaching—writing process and revision. Because of this divide, educators began pushing for writing assessments that were designed and implemented at the local, programmatic and classroom levels. As writing teachers began designing local assessments, the methods of assessment began to diversify, resulting in timed essay tests, locally designed rubrics, and portfolios. In addition to the classroom and programmatic levels, writing assessment is also hugely influential on writing centers for writing center assessment, and similar academic support centers.\n\nBecause writing assessment is used in multiple contexts, the history of writing assessment can be traced through examining specific concepts and situations that prompt major shifts in theories and practices. Writing assessment scholars do not always agree about the origin of writing assessment.\n\nIn \"Looking Back as We Look Forward: Historicizing Writing Assessment as a Rhetorical Act,\" Kathleen Blake Yancey offers a history of writing assessment by tracing three major shifts in methods used in assessing writing. She describes the three major shifts through the metaphor of overlapping waves: \"with one wave feeding into another but without completely displacing waves that came before\". In other words, the theories and practices from each wave are still present in some current contexts, but each wave marks the prominent theories and practices of the time.\n\nThe first wave of writing assessment (1950-1970) sought objective tests with indirect measures of assessment. The second wave (1970-1986) focused on holistically scored tests where the students' actual writing began to be assessed. And the third wave (since 1986) shifted toward assessing a collection of student work (i.e. portfolio assessment) and programmatic assessment.\n\nBob Broad in \"What We Really Value\" points to the publication of \"Factors in Judgments of Writing Ability\" in 1961 by Diederich, French, and Carlton as the birth of modern writing assessment. Diederich, French, and Carlton based much of their book on research conducted through the Educational Testing Service (ETS) for the previous decade. This book is an attempt to standardize the assessment of writing and, according to Broad, created a base of research in writing assessment.\n\nYancey traces the major shifts in writing assessment by pointing toward each wave's swing toward or away from the concepts of validity and reliability. Peggy O'Neill, Cindy Moore, and Brian Huot explain in \"A Guide To College Writing Assessment\" that reliability and validity are the most important terms in discussing best practices in writing assessment.\n\nIn the first wave of writing assessment, the emphasis is on reliability: reliability confronts questions over the consistency of a test. In this wave, the central concern was to assess writing with the best predictability with the least amount of cost and work.\n\nThe shift toward the second wave marked a move toward considering principles of validity. Validity confronts questions over a test's appropriateness and effectiveness for the given purpose. Methods in this wave were more concerned with a test's construct validity: whether the material prompted from a test is an appropriate measure of what the test purports to measure. Teachers began to see an incongruence between the material being prompted to measure writing and the material teachers were asking students to write. Holistic scoring, championed by Edward M. White, emerged in this wave. It is one method of assessment where students' writing is prompted to measure their writing ability.\n\nThe third wave of writing assessment emerges with continued interest in the validity of assessment methods. This wave began to consider an expanded definition of validity that includes how portfolio assessment contributes to learning and teaching. In this wave, portfolio assessment emerges to emphasize theories and practices in Composition and Writing Studies such as revision, drafting, and process.\n\nIndirect writing assessments typically consist of multiple choice tests on grammar, usage, and vocabulary. Examples include high-stakes standardized tests such as the ACT, SAT, and GRE, which are most often used by colleges and universities for admissions purposes. Other indirect assessments, such as Compass and Accuplacer, are used to place students into remedial or mainstream writing courses. Direct writing assessments, like the timed essay test, require at least one sample of student writing and\nare viewed by many writing assessment scholars as more valid than indirect tests because they are assessing actual samples of writing. Portfolio assessment, which generally consists of several pieces of student writing written over the course of a semester, began to replace timed essays during the late 1980s and early 1990s. Portfolio assessment is viewed as being even more valid than timed essay tests because it focuses on multiple samples of student writing that have been composed in the authentic context of the classroom. Portfolios enable assessors to examine multiple samples of student writing and multiple drafts of a single essay.\n\nMethods of writing assessment vary depending on the context and type of assessment. The following is an incomplete list of writing assessments frequently administered:\n\nPortfolio assessment is typically used to assess what students have learned at the end of a course or over a period of several years. Course portfolios consist of multiple samples of student writing and a reflective letter or essay in which students describe their writing and work for the course. \"Showcase portfolios\" contain final drafts of student writing, and \"process portfolios\" contain multiple drafts of each piece of writing. Both print and electronic portfolios can be either showcase or process portfolios, though electronic portfolios typically contain hyperlinks from the reflective essay or letter to samples of student work and, sometimes, outside sources.\n\nTimed essay tests were developed as an alternative to multiple choice, indirect writing assessments. Timed essay tests are often used to place students into writing courses appropriate for their skill level. These tests are usually proctored, meaning that testing takes place in a specific location in which students are given a prompt to write in response to within a set time limit. The SAT and GRE both contain timed essay portions.\n\nA rubric is a tool used in writing assessment that can be used in several writing contexts. A rubric consists of a set of criteria or descriptions that guides a rater to score or grade a writer. The origins of rubrics can be traced to early attempts in education to standardize and scale writing in the early 20th century. Ernest C Noyes argues in November 1912 for a shift toward assessment practices that were more science-based. One of the original scales used in education was developed by Milo B. Hillegas in \"A Scale for the Measurement of Quality in English Composition by Young People\". This scale is commonly referred to as the Hillegas Scale. The Hillegas Scale and other scales used in education were used by administrators to compare the progress of schools.\n\nIn 1961, Diederich, French, and Carlton from the Educational Testing Service (ETS) publish Factors in Judgments for Writing Ability a rubric compiled from a series of raters whose comments were categorized and condensed into a five-factor rubric:\n\n\nAs rubrics began to be used in the classroom, teachers began to advocate for criteria to be negotiated with students to have students stake a claim in the how they would be assessed. Scholars such as Chris Gallagher and Eric Turley, Bob Broad, and Asao Inoue (among many) have advocated that effective use of rubrics comes from local, contextual, and negotiated criteria.\n\nMultiple-choice tests contain questions about usage, grammar, and vocabulary. Standardized tests like the SAT, ACT, and GRE are typically used for college or graduate school admission. Other tests, such as Compass and Accuplacer, are typically used to place students into remedial or mainstream writing courses.\n\nAutomated essay scoring (AES) is the use of non-human, computer-assisted assessment practices to rate, score, or grade writing tasks.\n\nSome scholars in writing assessment focus their research on the influence of race on the performance on writing assessments. Scholarship in race and writing assessment seek to study how categories of race and perceptions of race continues to shape writing assessment outcomes. However, scholars in writing assessment recognize that racism in the 21st century is no longer explicit, but point out that writing assessment practices are silently racist. Nicholas Behm and Keith D. Miller in \"Challenging the Frameworks of Color-Blind Racism: Why We Need a Fourth Wave of Writing Assessment Scholarship\" advocate for the recognition of another wave after the three that Yancey offers. Behm and Miller advocate for a wave where the intersections of race and writing assessment are brought to the forefront of assessment practices. As the authors explain, racial inequalities in writing assessment are typically justified with non-racial reasons.\n\n"}
