{"id": "18033793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18033793", "title": "1996 Dubai Tennis Championships", "text": "1996 Dubai Tennis Championships\n\nThe 1996 Dubai Tennis Championships was a tennis tournament played on outdoor hard courts at the Aviation Club Tennis Centre in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates and was part of the World Series of the 1996 ATP Tour. The tournament ran from February 12 through February 18, 1996.\n\n Goran Ivanišević defeated Albert Costa 6–4, 6–3\n\n Byron Black / Grant Connell defeated Karel Nováček / Jiří Novák 6–0, 6–1\n\n"}
{"id": "28276284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28276284", "title": "2010 Vattenfall Cyclassics", "text": "2010 Vattenfall Cyclassics\n\nThe 2010 Vattenfall Cyclassics was a one-day road race, which is part of the 2010 UCI ProTour, it took place on 15 August 2010. The race covered a total of and took place in Hamburg, Germany.\n\nTwenty one teams were invited to the 2010 Vattenfall Cyclassics. \n\nTeams from the UCI Pro Tour\nTeams awarded a wildcard invitation\n"}
{"id": "41802950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41802950", "title": "AC Bongoville", "text": "AC Bongoville\n\nAC Bongoville is a Gabonese football club based in Bongoville, Gabon. The club plays in Gabon Championnat National D1.\n\nIt started as Racing Club de Masuku. As a result of management changes, the club moved to Bongoville and was renamed AC Bongoville. In its first season 2008–2009 in the Gabon Championnat National D1, it finished 9th in the league. Later on, the club slipped to Division 2. But after winning the championship of Gabon Championnat National D2 in 2011, the club moved back to Division 1 of the Gabonese league starting season 2011–2012.\n\nBeninese player Sylvain Azougoui, the long-time goalkeeper of the club, died on 20 April 2014 during a game between AC Bongoville and Centre Mberi Sportif held in Bongoville when Sanogo, an attacker from the rival Centre Mberi Sportif accidentally kicked him in the head during a division 1 league game between the two teams. Azougoui died on his way to hospital.\n"}
{"id": "4615079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4615079", "title": "Allan Park, Aberdeen", "text": "Allan Park, Aberdeen\n\nAllan Park was a football ground located in Cove, a suburb of Aberdeen, Scotland. It was the home to Highland Football League club Cove Rangers. The ground had a capacity of 2300 spectators, with 200 on seats or benches. Its largest attendance was 2,100, in the league playoff 2008–09 vs Deveronvale which they won 3-1 to lift the league title for the third year running.\n\nAllan Park was named after a local farmer, who sold the club the land on which they built the ground in 1948.\n\nIn September 2011, Cove Rangers were planning to sell Allan Park for housing and share in part of the New Aberdeen Stadium project with Aberdeen FC. This scheme was thrown into doubt, however, when Aberdeen City Council rejected an application by the two clubs to build a new ground for Cove Rangers that Aberdeen FC would also have used as a training ground. On 19 April 2015 Cove Rangers said goodbye to Allan Park as they played their final game before moving to a new stadium being constructed just outside the Cove area in Aberdeen. Allan Park had been bought by housing developers for a figure believed to be around the £3m mark. The sale also included a social club, also owned by the football club, which closed its doors the following day.\n"}
{"id": "19218324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19218324", "title": "Anabolic steroid", "text": "Anabolic steroid\n\nAnabolic steroids, also known more properly as anabolic–androgenic steroids (AAS), are steroidal androgens that include natural androgens like testosterone as well as synthetic androgens that are structurally related and have similar effects to testosterone. They are anabolic and increase protein within cells, especially in skeletal muscles, and also have varying degrees of androgenic and virilizing effects, including induction of the development and maintenance of masculine secondary sexual characteristics such as the growth of facial and body hair. The word \"anabolic\", referring to anabolism, comes from the Greek ἀναβολή \"anabole\", \"that which is thrown up, mound\". Androgens or AAS are one of three types of sex hormone agonists, the others being estrogens like estradiol and progestogens like progesterone.\n\nAAS were synthesized in the 1930s, and are now used therapeutically in medicine to stimulate muscle growth and appetite, induce male puberty and treat chronic wasting conditions, such as cancer and . The American College of Sports Medicine acknowledges that AAS, in the presence of adequate diet, can contribute to increases in body weight, often as lean mass increases and that the gains in muscular strength achieved through high-intensity exercise and proper diet can be additionally increased by the use of AAS in some individuals.\n\nHealth risks can be produced by long-term use or excessive doses of AAS. These effects include harmful changes in cholesterol levels (increased low-density lipoprotein and decreased high-density lipoprotein), acne, high blood pressure, liver damage (mainly with most oral AAS), and dangerous changes in the structure of the left ventricle of the heart. Conditions pertaining to hormonal imbalances such as gynecomastia and testicular size reduction may also be caused by AAS. In women and children, AAS can cause irreversible masculinization.\n\nErgogenic uses for AAS in sports, racing, and bodybuilding as performance-enhancing drugs are controversial because of their adverse effects and the potential to gain unfair advantage in physical competitions. Their use is referred to as doping and banned by most major sporting bodies. For many years, AAS have been by far the most detected doping substances in IOC-accredited laboratories. In countries where AAS are controlled substances, there is often a black market in which smuggled, clandestinely manufactured or even counterfeit drugs are sold to users.\n\nSince the discovery and synthesis of testosterone in the 1930s, AAS have been used by physicians for many purposes, with varying degrees of success. These can broadly be grouped into anabolic, androgenic, and other uses.\n\n\n\n\nMost steroid users are not athletes. In the United States, between 1 million and 3 million people (1% of the population) are thought to have used AAS. Studies in the United States have shown that AAS users tend to be mostly middle-class heterosexual men with a median age of about 25 who are noncompetitive bodybuilders and non-athletes and use the drugs for cosmetic purposes. \"Among 12- to 17-year-old boys, use of steroids and similar drugs jumped 25 percent from 1999 to 2000, with 20 percent saying they use them for looks rather than sports, a study by insurer Blue Cross Blue Shield found.\"(Eisenhauer) Another study found that non-medical use of AAS among college students was at or less than 1%. According to a recent survey, 78.4% of steroid users were noncompetitive bodybuilders and non-athletes, while about 13% reported unsafe injection practices such as reusing needles, sharing needles, and sharing multidose vials, though a 2007 study found that sharing of needles was extremely uncommon among individuals using AAS for non-medical purposes, less than 1%. Another 2007 study found that 74% of non-medical AAS users had post-secondary degrees and more had completed college and fewer had failed to complete high school than is expected from the general populace. The same study found that individuals using AAS for non-medical purposes had a higher employment rate and a higher household income than the general population. AAS users tend to research the drugs they are taking more than other controlled-substance users; however, the major sources consulted by steroid users include friends, non-medical handbooks, internet-based forums, blogs, and fitness magazines, which can provide questionable or inaccurate information.\n\nAAS users tend to be unhappy with the portrayal of AAS as deadly in the media and in politics. According to one study, AAS users also distrust their physicians and in the sample 56% had not disclosed their AAS use to their physicians. Another 2007 study had similar findings, showing that, while 66% of individuals using AAS for non-medical purposes were willing to seek medical supervision for their steroid use, 58% lacked trust in their physicians, 92% felt that the medical community's knowledge of non-medical AAS use was lacking, and 99% felt that the public has an exaggerated view of the side-effects of AAS use. A recent study has also shown that long term AAS users were more likely to have symptoms of muscle dysmorphia and also showed stronger endorsement of more conventional male roles. A recent study in the Journal of Health Psychology showed that many users believed that steroids used in moderation were safe.\n\nAAS have been used by men and women in many different kinds of professional sports to attain a competitive edge or to assist in recovery from injury. These sports include bodybuilding, weightlifting, shot put and other track and field, cycling, baseball, wrestling, mixed martial arts, boxing, football, and cricket. Such use is prohibited by the rules of the governing bodies of most sports. AAS use occurs among adolescents, especially by those participating in competitive sports. It has been suggested that the prevalence of use among high-school students in the U.S. may be as high as 2.7%. Male students used AAS more frequently than female students and, on average, those that participated in sports used steroids more often than those that did not.\n\nThe AAS that have been used most commonly in medicine are testosterone and its many esters (but most typically testosterone undecanoate, testosterone enanthate, testosterone cypionate, and testosterone propionate), nandrolone esters (typically nandrolone decanoate and nandrolone phenylpropionate), stanozolol, and metandienone (methandrostenolone). Others that have also been available and used commonly but to a lesser extent include methyltestosterone, oxandrolone, mesterolone, and oxymetholone, as well as drostanolone propionate (dromostanolone propionate), metenolone (methylandrostenolone) esters (specifically metenolone acetate and metenolone enanthate), and fluoxymesterone. Dihydrotestosterone (DHT), known as androstanolone or stanolone when used medically, and its esters are also notable, although they are not widely used in medicine. Boldenone undecylenate and trenbolone acetate are used in veterinary medicine.\n\nDesigner steroids are AAS that have not been approved and marketed for medical use but have been distributed through the black market. Examples of notable designer steroids include 1-testosterone (dihydroboldenone), methasterone, trenbolone enanthate, desoxymethyltestosterone, tetrahydrogestrinone, and methylstenbolone.\n\nThere are four common forms in which AAS are administered: oral pills; injectable steroids; creams/gels for topical application; and skin patches. Oral administration is the most convenient. Testosterone administered by mouth is rapidly absorbed, but it is largely converted to inactive metabolites, and only about one-sixth is available in active form. In order to be sufficiently active when given by mouth, testosterone derivatives are alkylated at the 17α position, e.g. methyltestosterone and fluoxymesterone. This modification reduces the liver's ability to break down these compounds before they reach the systemic circulation.\n\nTestosterone can be administered parenterally, but it has more irregular prolonged absorption time and greater activity in muscle in enanthate, undecanoate, or cypionate ester form. These derivatives are hydrolyzed to release free testosterone at the site of injection; absorption rate (and thus injection schedule) varies among different esters, but medical injections are normally done anywhere between semi-weekly to once every 12 weeks. A more frequent schedule may be desirable in order to maintain a more constant level of hormone in the system. Injectable steroids are typically administered into the muscle, not into the vein, to avoid sudden changes in the amount of the drug in the bloodstream. In addition, because estered testosterone is dissolved in oil, intravenous injection has the potential to cause a dangerous embolism (clot) in the bloodstream.\n\nTransdermal patches (adhesive patches placed on the skin) may also be used to deliver a steady dose through the skin and into the bloodstream. Testosterone-containing creams and gels that are applied daily to the skin are also available, but absorption is inefficient (roughly 10%, varying between individuals) and these treatments tend to be more expensive. Individuals who are especially physically active and/or bathe often may not be good candidates, since the medication can be washed off and may take up to six hours to be fully absorbed. There is also the risk that an intimate partner or child may come in contact with the application site and inadvertently dose himself or herself; children and women are highly sensitive to testosterone and can suffer unintended masculinization and health effects, even from small doses. Injection is the most common method used by individuals administering AAS for non-medical purposes.\n\nThe traditional routes of administration do not have differential effects on the efficacy of the drug. Studies indicate that the anabolic properties of AAS are relatively similar despite the differences in pharmacokinetic principles such as first-pass metabolism. However, the orally available forms of AAS may cause liver damage in high doses.\n\nKnown possible side effects of AAS include:\n\n\nDepending on the length of drug abuse, there is a chance that the immune system can be damaged. Most of these side-effects are dose-dependent, the most common being elevated blood pressure, especially in those with pre-existing hypertension. In addition to morphological changes of the heart which may alter cardiovascular inefficiency irreversibly.\n\nAAS have been shown to alter fasting blood sugar and glucose tolerance tests. AAS such as testosterone also increase the risk of cardiovascular disease or coronary artery disease. Acne is fairly common among AAS users, mostly due to stimulation of the sebaceous glands by increased testosterone levels. Conversion of testosterone to DHT can accelerate the rate of premature baldness for males genetically predisposed, but testosterone itself can produce baldness in females.\n\nA number of severe side effects can occur if adolescents use AAS. For example, AAS may prematurely stop the lengthening of bones (premature epiphyseal fusion through increased levels of estrogen metabolites), resulting in stunted growth. Other effects include, but are not limited to, accelerated bone maturation, increased frequency and duration of erections, and premature sexual development. AAS use in adolescence is also correlated with poorer attitudes related to health.\n\nWHO organization International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) list AAS under Group 2A: Probably carcinogenic to humans.\n\nOther side-effects can include alterations in the structure of the heart, such as enlargement and thickening of the left ventricle, which impairs its contraction and relaxation, and therefore reducing ejected blood volume. Possible effects of these alterations in the heart are hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, heart attacks, and sudden cardiac death. These changes are also seen in non-drug-using athletes, but steroid use may accelerate this process. However, both the connection between changes in the structure of the left ventricle and decreased cardiac function, as well as the connection to steroid use have been disputed.\n\nAAS use can cause harmful changes in cholesterol levels: Some steroids cause an increase in LDL \"bad\" cholesterol and a decrease in HDL \"good\" cholesterol. In addition, steroids provoke a rapid increase in body weight and an accompanying rise in blood pressure, both of which leave users more vulnerable to a cardiovascular event.\n\nAAS use in adolescents quickens bone maturation and may reduce adult height in high doses. Low doses of AAS such as oxandrolone are used in the treatment of idiopathic short stature, but this may only quicken maturation rather than increasing adult height.\n\nThere are also sex-specific side effects of AAS. Development of breast tissue in males, a condition called gynecomastia (which is usually caused by high levels of circulating estradiol), may arise because of increased conversion of testosterone to estradiol by the enzyme aromatase. Reduced sexual function and temporary infertility can also occur in males. Another male-specific side-effect that can occur is testicular atrophy, caused by the suppression of natural testosterone levels, which inhibits production of sperm (most of the mass of the testes is developing sperm). This side-effect is temporary; the size of the testicles usually returns to normal within a few weeks of discontinuing AAS use as normal production of sperm resumes.\n\nFemale-specific side effects include increases in body hair, permanent deepening of the voice, enlarged clitoris, and temporary decreases in menstrual cycles. Alteration of fertility and ovarian cysts can also occur in females. When taken during pregnancy, AAS can affect fetal development by causing the development of male features in the female fetus and female features in the male fetus.\n\nKidney tests revealed that nine of the ten steroid users developed a condition called focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, a type of scarring within the kidneys. The kidney damage in the bodybuilders has similarities to that seen in morbidly obese patients, but appears to be even more severe.\n\nHigh doses of oral AAS compounds can cause liver damage. Peliosis hepatis has been increasingly recognised with the use of AAS.\n\nA 2005 review in \"CNS Drugs\" determined that \"significant psychiatric symptoms including aggression and violence, mania, and less frequently psychosis and suicide have been associated with steroid abuse. Long-term steroid abusers may develop symptoms of dependence and withdrawal on discontinuation of AAS\". High concentrations of AAS, comparable to those likely sustained by many recreational AAS users, produce apoptotic effects on neurons, raising the specter of possibly irreversible neurotoxicity. Recreational AAS use appears to be associated with a range of potentially prolonged psychiatric effects, including dependence syndromes, mood disorders, and progression to other forms of substance abuse, but the prevalence and severity of these various effects remains poorly understood. There is no evidence that steroid dependence develops from \"therapeutic\" use of AAS to treat medical disorders, but instances of AAS dependence have been reported among weightlifters and bodybuilders who chronically administered supraphysiologic doses. Mood disturbances (e.g. depression, [hypo-]mania, psychotic features) are likely to be dose- and drug-dependent, but AAS dependence or withdrawal effects seem to occur only in a small number of AAS users.\n\nLarge-scale long-term studies of psychiatric effects on AAS users are not currently available. In 2003, the first naturalistic long-term study on ten users, seven of which having completed the study, found a high incidence of mood disorders and substance abuse, but few clinically relevant changes in physiological parameters or laboratory measures were noted throughout the study, and these changes were not clearly related to periods of reported AAS use. A 13-month study, which was published in 2006 and which involved 320 body builders and athletes suggests that the wide range of psychiatric side-effects induced by the use of AAS is correlated to the severity of abuse.\n\nDSM-IV lists General diagnostic criteria for a personality disorder guideline that \"The pattern must not be better accounted for as a manifestation of another mental disorder, or to the direct physiological effects of a substance (e.g. drug or medication) or a general medical condition (e.g. head trauma).\". As a result, AAS users may get misdiagnosed by a psychiatrist not told about their habit.\n\nCooper, Noakes, Dunne, Lambert, and Rochford identified that AAS-using individuals are more likely to score higher on borderline (4.7 times), antisocial (3.8 times), paranoid (3.4 times), schizotypal (3.1 times), histrionic (2.9 times), passive-aggressive (2.4 times), and narcissistic (1.6 times) personality profiles than non-users. Other studies have suggested that antisocial personality disorder is slightly more likely among AAS users than among non-users (Pope & Katz, 1994). Bipolar dysfunction, substance dependency, and conduct disorder have also been associated with AAS use.\n\nAffective disorders have long been recognised as a complication of AAS use. Case reports describe both hypomania and mania, along with irritability, elation, recklessness, racing thoughts and feelings of power and invincibility that did not meet the criteria for mania/hypomania. Of 53 bodybuilders who used AAS, 27 (51%) reported unspecified mood disturbance.\n\nFrom the mid-1980s onward, the media reported \"roid rage\" as a side effect of AAS.\n\nA 2005 review determined that some, but not all, randomized controlled studies have found that AAS use correlates with hypomania and increased aggressiveness, but pointed out that attempts to determine whether AAS use triggers violent behavior have failed, primarily because of high rates of non-participation. A 2008 study on a nationally representative sample of young adult males in the United States found an association between lifetime and past-year self-reported AAS use and involvement in violent acts. Compared with individuals that did not use steroids, young adult males that used AAS reported greater involvement in violent behaviors even after controlling for the effects of key demographic variables, previous violent behavior, and polydrug use. A 1996 review examining the blind studies available at that time also found that these had demonstrated a link between aggression and steroid use, but pointed out that with estimates of over one million past or current steroid users in the United States at that time, an extremely small percentage of those using steroids appear to have experienced mental disturbance severe enough to result in clinical treatments or medical case reports.\n\nA 1996 randomized controlled trial, which involved 43 men, did not find an increase in the occurrence of angry behavior during 10 weeks of administration of testosterone enanthate at 600 mg/week, but this study screened out subjects that had previously abused steroids or had any psychiatric antecedents. A trial conducted in 2000 using testosterone cypionate at 600 mg/week found that treatment significantly increased manic scores on the YMRS, and aggressive responses on several scales. The drug response was highly variable. However: 84% of subjects exhibited minimal psychiatric effects, 12% became mildly hypomanic, and 4% (2 subjects) became markedly hypomanic. The mechanism of these variable reactions could not be explained by demographic, psychological, laboratory, or physiological measures.\n\nA 2006 study of two pairs of identical twins, in which one twin used AAS and the other did not, found that in both cases the steroid-using twin exhibited high levels of aggressiveness, hostility, anxiety, and paranoid ideation not found in the \"control\" twin. A small-scale study of 10 AAS users found that cluster B personality disorders were confounding factors for aggression.\n\nThe relationship between AAS use and depression is inconclusive. There have been anecdotal reports of depression and suicide in teenage steroid users, but little systematic evidence. A 1992 review found that AAS may both relieve and cause depression, and that cessation or diminished use of AAS may also result in depression, but called for additional studies due to disparate data. In the case of suicide, 3.9% of a sample of 77 those classified as AAS users reported attempting suicide during withdrawal (Malone, Dimeff, Lombardo, & Sample, 1995).\n\nAndrogens such as testosterone, androstenedione and dihydrotestosterone are required for the development of organs in the male reproductive system, including the seminal vesicles, epididymis, vas deferens, penis and prostate. AAS are testosterone derivatives designed to maximize the anabolic effects of testosterone. AAS are consumed by elite athletes competing in sports like weightlifting, bodybuilding, and track and field. Male recreational athletes take AAS to achieve an “enhanced” physical appearance.\n\nAAS consumption disrupts the hypothalamic–pituitary–gonadal axis (HPG axis) in males. In the HPG axis, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is secreted from the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus and stimulates the anterior pituitary to secrete the two gonadotropins, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). In adult males, LH stimulates the Leydig cells in the testes to produce testosterone which is required to form new sperm through spermatogenesis. AAS consumption leads to dose-dependent suppression of gonadotropin release through suppression of GnRH from the hypothalamus (long-loop mechanism) or from direct negative feedback on the anterior pituitary to inhibit gonadotropin release (short-loop mechanism), leading to AAS-induced hypogonadism.\n\nThe pharmacodynamics of AAS are unlike peptide hormones. Water-soluble peptide hormones cannot penetrate the fatty cell membrane and only indirectly affect the nucleus of target cells through their interaction with the cell’s surface receptors. However, as fat-soluble hormones, AAS are membrane-permeable and influence the nucleus of cells by direct action. The pharmacodynamic action of AAS begin when the exogenous hormone penetrates the membrane of the target cell and binds to an androgen receptor (AR) located in the cytoplasm of that cell. From there, the compound hormone-receptor diffuses into the nucleus, where it either alters the expression of genes or activates processes that send signals to other parts of the cell. Different types of AAS bind to the AAR with different affinities, depending on their chemical structure. Some AAS such as metandienone bind weakly to this receptor \"in vitro\", but still exhibit AR-mediated effects \"in vivo\". The reason for this discrepancy is not known.\n\nThe effect of AAS on muscle mass is caused in at least two ways: first, they increase the production of proteins; second, they reduce recovery time by blocking the effects of stress hormone cortisol on muscle tissue, so that catabolism of muscle is greatly reduced. It has been hypothesized that this reduction in muscle breakdown may occur through AAS inhibiting the action of other steroid hormones called glucocorticoids that promote the breakdown of muscles. AAS also affect the number of cells that develop into fat-storage cells, by favouring cellular differentiation into muscle cells instead. AAS can also decrease fat by increasing basal metabolic rate (BMR), since an increase in muscle mass increases BMR. \n\nAs their name suggests, AAS have two different, but overlapping, types of effects: \"anabolic\", meaning that they promote anabolism (cell growth), and \"androgenic\" (or \"virilizing\"), meaning that they affect the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics.\n\nSome examples of the anabolic effects of these hormones are increased protein synthesis from amino acids, increased appetite, increased bone remodeling and growth, and stimulation of bone marrow, which increases the production of red blood cells. Through a number of mechanisms AAS stimulate the formation of muscle cells and hence cause an increase in the size of skeletal muscles, leading to increased strength.\n\nThe androgenic effects of AAS are numerous. Depending on the length of use, the side effects of the steroid can be irreversible. Processes affected include pubertal growth, sebaceous gland oil production, and sexuality (especially in fetal development). Some examples of virilizing effects are growth of the clitoris in females and the penis in male children (the adult penis size does not change due to steroids ), increased vocal cord size, increased libido, suppression of natural sex hormones, and impaired production of sperm. Effects on women include deepening of the voice, facial hair growth, and possibly a decrease in breast size. Men may develop an enlargement of breast tissue, known as gynecomastia, testicular atrophy, and a reduced sperm count.\n\nThe androgenic:anabolic ratio of an AAS is an important factor when determining the clinical application of these compounds. Compounds with a high ratio of androgenic to an anabolic effects are the drug of choice in androgen-replacement therapy (e.g., treating hypogonadism in males), whereas compounds with a reduced androgenic:anabolic ratio are preferred for anemia and osteoporosis, and to reverse protein loss following trauma, surgery, or prolonged immobilization. Determination of androgenic:anabolic ratio is typically performed in animal studies, which has led to the marketing of some compounds claimed to have anabolic activity with weak androgenic effects. This disassociation is less marked in humans, where all AAS have significant androgenic effects.\n\nA commonly used protocol for determining the androgenic:anabolic ratio, dating back to the 1950s, uses the relative weights of ventral prostate (VP) and levator ani muscle (LA) of male rats. The VP weight is an indicator of the androgenic effect, while the LA weight is an indicator of the anabolic effect. Two or more batches of rats are castrated and given no treatment and respectively some AAS of interest. The \"LA/VP ratio\" for an AAS is calculated as the ratio of LA/VP weight gains produced by the treatment with that compound using castrated but untreated rats as baseline: (LA–LA)/(VP–VP). The LA/VP weight gain ratio from rat experiments is not unitary for testosterone (typically 0.3–0.4), but it is normalized for presentation purposes, and used as basis of comparison for other AAS, which have their androgenic:anabolic ratios scaled accordingly (as shown in the table above). In the early 2000s, this procedure was standardized and generalized throughout OECD in what is now known as the Hershberger assay.\n\nBody weight in men may increase by 2 to 5 kg as a result of short-term (<10 weeks) AAS use, which may be attributed mainly to an increase of lean mass. Animal studies also found that fat mass was reduced, but most studies in humans failed to elucidate significant fat mass decrements. The effects on lean body mass have been shown to be dose-dependent. Both muscle hypertrophy and the formation of new muscle fibers have been observed. The hydration of lean mass remains unaffected by AAS use, although small increments of blood volume cannot be ruled out.\n\nThe upper region of the body (thorax, neck, shoulders, and upper arm) seems to be more susceptible for AAS than other body regions because of predominance of ARs in the upper body. The largest difference in muscle fiber size between AAS users and non-users was observed in type I muscle fibers of the vastus lateralis and the trapezius muscle as a result of long-term AAS self-administration. After drug withdrawal, the effects fade away slowly, but may persist for more than 6–12 weeks after cessation of AAS use.\n\nStrength improvements in the range of 5 to 20% of baseline strength, depending largely on the drugs and dose used as well as the administration period. Overall, the exercise where the most significant improvements were observed is the bench press. For almost two decades, it was assumed that AAS exerted significant effects only in experienced strength athletes. A randomized controlled trial demonstrated, however, that even in novice athletes a 10-week strength training program accompanied by testosterone enanthate at 600 mg/week may improve strength more than training alone does. This dose is sufficient to significantly improve lean muscle mass relative to placebo even in subjects that did not exercise at all. The anabolic effects of testosterone enanthate were highly dose dependent.\n\nEndogenous/natural AAS like testosterone and DHT and synthetic AAS mediate their effects by binding to and activating the AR. On the basis of animal bioassays, the effects of these agents have been divided into two partially dissociable types: anabolic (myotrophic) and androgenic. Dissociation between the ratios of these two types of effects is observed in rat bioassays with various AAS relative to the ratio observed with testosterone. Explanations for the dissociation include differences in intracellular metabolism, functional selectivity (recruitment of coactivators), and non-genomic mechanisms (i.e., signaling through non-AR membrane androgen receptors, or mARs). Support for the latter two explanations is limited and more hypothetical, but there is a good deal of support for the intracellular metabolism explanation.\n\nThe measurement of the dissociation between anabolic and androgenic effects among AAS is based largely on a simple although arguably unsophisticated and outdated model involving rat tissue bioassays. It is referred to as the myotrophic–androgenic index. In this model, anabolic (myotrophic) activity is measured by change in the weight of the rat bulbocavernosus/levator ani muscle and androgenic activity is measured by change in the weight of the rat ventral prostate (or, alternatively, the rat seminal vesicles) in response to exposure to the AAS, and the measurements are then compared and used to form a ratio.\n\nTestosterone is metabolized in various tissues by 5α-reductase into DHT, which is 3- to 10-fold more potent as an AR agonist, and by aromatase into estradiol, which is an estrogen and lacks significant AR affinity. In addition, DHT is metabolized by 3α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3α-HSD) and 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3β-HSD) into 3α-androstanediol and 3β-androstanediol, respectively, which are metabolites with little or no AR affinity. 5α-Reductase is widely distributed throughout the body, and is concentrated to various extents in skin (particularly the scalp, beard-area of the face, pubic area, and genital area (penis and scrotum)), prostate, seminal vesicles, liver, and the brain. In contrast, expression of 5α-reductase in skeletal muscle is undetectable. Aromatase is highly expressed in adipose tissue and the brain, and is also expressed significantly in skeletal muscle. 3α-HSD is also highly expressed in skeletal muscle.\n\nNatural AAS like testosterone and DHT and synthetic AAS are analogues and are very similar structurally. For this reason, they have the capacity to bind to and be metabolized by the same steroid-metabolizing enzymes. According to the intracellular metabolism explanation, the androgenic-to-anabolic ratio of a given AR agonist is related to its capacity to be transformed by the aforementioned enzymes in conjunction with the AR activity of any resulting products. For instance, whereas the AR activity of testosterone is greatly potentiated by local conversion via 5α-reductase into DHT in tissues where 5α-reductase is expressed, an AAS that is not metabolized by 5α-reductase or is already 5α-reduced, such as DHT itself or a derivative (like mesterolone or drostanolone), would not undergo such potentiation in said tissues. Moreover, nandrolone is metabolized by 5α-reductase, but unlike the case of testosterone and DHT, the 5α-reduced metabolite of nandrolone has much lower affinity for the AR than does nandrolone itself, and this results in reduced AR activation in 5α-reductase-expressing tissues. As so-called \"androgenic\" tissues such as skin/hair follicles and male reproductive tissues are very high in 5α-reductase expression, while skeletal muscle is virtually devoid of 5α-reductase, this may primarily explain the high myotrophic–androgenic ratio and dissociation seen with nandrolone, as well as with various other AAS.\n\nAside from 5α-reductase, aromatase may inactivate testosterone signaling in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, so AAS that lack aromatase affinity, in addition to being free of the potential side effect of gynecomastia, might be expected to have a higher myotrophic–androgenic ratio in comparison. In addition, DHT is inactivated by high activity of 3α-HSD in skeletal muscle (and cardiac tissue), and AAS that lack affinity for 3α-HSD could similarly be expected to have a higher myotrophic–androgenic ratio (although perhaps also increased long-term cardiovascular risks). In accordance, DHT, mestanolone (17α-methyl-DHT), and mesterolone (1α-methyl-DHT) are all described as very poorly anabolic due to inactivation by 3α-HSD in skeletal muscle, whereas other DHT derivatives with other structural features like metenolone, oxandrolone, oxymetholone, drostanolone, and stanozolol are all poor substrates for 3α-HSD and are described as potent anabolics.\n\nThe intracellular metabolism theory explains how and why remarkable dissociation between anabolic and androgenic effects can occur despite the fact that these effects are mediated through the same signaling receptor, and of course why dissociation is invariably incomplete. In support of the model is the rare condition congenital 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency, in which the 5α-reductase type 2 enzyme is defective, production of DHT is impaired, and DHT levels are low while testosterone levels are normal. Males with this condition are born with ambiguous genitalia and a severely underdeveloped or even absent prostate gland. In addition, at the time of puberty, such males develop normal musculature, voice deepening, and libido, but have reduced facial hair, a female pattern of body hair (i.e., largely restricted to the pubic triangle and underarms), no incidence of male pattern hair loss, and no prostate enlargement or incidence of prostate cancer. They also notably do not develop gynecomastia as a consequence of their condition.\n\nAn animal study found that two different kinds of androgen response elements could differentially respond to testosterone and DHT upon activation of the AR. Whether this is involved in the differences in the ratios of anabolic-to-myotrophic effect of different AAS is unknown however.\n\nTestosterone signals not only through the nuclear AR, but also through mARs, including ZIP9 and GPRC6A. It has been proposed that differential signaling through mARs may be involved in the dissociation of the anabolic and androgenic effects of AAS. Indeed, DHT has less than 1% of the affinity of testosterone for ZIP9, and the synthetic AAS metribolone and mibolerone are ineffective competitors for the receptor similarly, indicating that AAS do show differential interactions with the AR and mARs. However, women with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (CAIS), who have a male genotype (46,XY) and testes but a defect in the AR such that it is non-functional (and hence are completely insensitive to the AR-mediated effects of androgens like testosterone), show a perfectly female phenotype despite having testosterone levels in the high end of the normal male range. In addition, these women have little or no sebum production, incidence of acne, or body hair growth (including in the pubic and axillary areas). Moreover, CAIS women have lean body mass that is normal for females but is of course greatly reduced for males. These observations suggest that the AR is mainly or exclusively responsible for masculinization and myotrophy caused by androgens. In any case, the mARs have been found to be involved in some other effects of testosterone like modulation of prostate cancer risk and progression.\n\nChanges in endogenous testosterone levels may also contribute to differences in myotrophic–androgenic ratio between testosterone and synthetic AAS. AR agonists are antigonadotropic – that is, they dose-dependently suppress gonadal testosterone production and hence reduce systemic testosterone concentrations. By suppressing endogenous testosterone levels and effectively replacing AR signaling in the body with that of the exogenous AAS, the myotrophic–androgenic ratio of a given AAS may be further, dose-dependently increased, and this hence may be an additional factor contributing to the differences in myotrophic–androgenic ratio among different AAS. In addition, some AAS, such as 19-nortestosterone derivatives like nandrolone, are also potent progestogens, and activation of the progesterone receptor (PR) is antigonadotropic similarly to activation of the AR. The combination of sufficient AR and PR activation can suppress circulating testosterone levels into the castrate range in men (i.e., complete suppression of gonadal testosterone production and circulating testosterone levels decreased by about 95%). As such, combined progestogenic activity may serve to further increase the myotrophic–androgenic ratio for a given AAS.\n\nSome AAS, such as testosterone, DHT, stanozolol, and methyltestosterone, have been found to modulate the GABA receptor similarly to endogenous neurosteroids like allopregnanolone, 3α-androstanediol, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, and pregnenolone sulfate. It has been suggested that this may contribute as an alternative or additional mechanism to the neurological and behavioral effects of AAS.\n\nAAS differ in a variety of ways including in their capacities to be metabolized by steroidogenic enzymes such as 5α-reductase, 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases, and aromatase, in whether their potency as AR agonists is potentiated or diminished by 5α-reduction, in their ratios of anabolic/myotrophic to androgenic effect, in their estrogenic, progestogenic, and neurosteroid activities, in their oral activity, and in their capacity to produce hepatotoxicity.\n\nTestosterone can be robustly converted by 5α-reductase into DHT in so-called androgenic tissues such as skin, scalp, prostate, and seminal vesicles, but not in muscle or bone, where 5α-reductase either is not expressed or is only minimally expressed. As DHT is 3- to 10-fold more potent as an agonist of the AR than is testosterone, the AR agonist activity of testosterone is thus markedly and selectively potentiated in such tissues. In contrast to testosterone, DHT and other 4,5α-dihydrogenated AAS are already 5α-reduced, and for this reason, cannot be potentiated in androgenic tissues. 19-Nortestosterone derivatives like nandrolone can be metabolized by 5α-reductase similarly to testosterone, but 5α-reduced metabolites of 19-nortestosterone derivatives (e.g., 5α-dihydronandrolone) tend to have reduced activity as AR agonists, resulting in reduced androgenic activity in tissues that express 5α-reductase. In addition, some 19-nortestosterone derivatives, including trestolone (7α-methyl-19-nortestosterone (MENT)), 11β-methyl-19-nortestosterone (11β-MNT), and dimethandrolone (7α,11β-dimethyl-19-nortestosterone), cannot be 5α-reduced. Conversely, certain 17α-alkylated AAS like methyltestosterone are 5α-reduced and potentiated in androgenic tissues similarly to testosterone. 17α-Alkylated DHT derivatives cannot be potentiated via 5α-reductase however, as they are already 4,5α-reduced.\n\nThe capacity to be metabolized by 5α-reductase and the AR activity of the resultant metabolites appears to be one of the major, if not the most important determinant of the androgenic–myotrophic ratio for a given AAS. AAS that are not potentiated by 5α-reductase or that are weakened by 5α-reductase in androgenic tissues have a reduced risk of androgenic side effects such as acne, androgenic alopecia (male-pattern baldness), hirsutism (excessive male-pattern hair growth), benign prostatic hyperplasia (prostate enlargement), and prostate cancer, while incidence and magnitude of other effects such as muscle hypertrophy, bone changes, voice deepening, and changes in sex drive show no difference.\n\nTestosterone can be metabolized by aromatase into estradiol, and many other AAS can be metabolized into their corresponding estrogenic metabolites as well. As an example, the 17α-alkylated AAS methyltestosterone and metandienone are converted by aromatase into methylestradiol. 4,5α-Dihydrogenated derivatives of testosterone such as DHT cannot be aromatized, whereas 19-nortestosterone derivatives like nandrolone can be but to a greatly reduced extent. Some 19-nortestosterone derivatives, such as dimethandrolone and 11β-MNT, cannot be aromatized due to steric hindrance provided by their 11β-methyl group, whereas the closely related AAS trestolone (7α-methyl-19-nortestosterone), in relation to its lack of an 11β-methyl group, can be aromatized. AAS that are 17α-alkylated (and not also 4,5α-reduced or 19-demethylated) are also aromatized but to a lesser extent than is testosterone. However, it is notable that estrogens that are 17α-substituted (e.g., ethinylestradiol and methylestradiol) are of markedly increased estrogenic potency due to improved metabolic stability, and for this reason, 17α-alkylated AAS can actually have high estrogenicity and comparatively greater estrogenic effects than testosterone.\n\nThe major effect of estrogenicity is gynecomastia (woman-like breasts). AAS that have a high potential for aromatization like testosterone and particularly methyltestosterone show a high risk of gynecomastia at sufficiently high dosages, while AAS that have a reduced potential for aromatization like nandrolone show a much lower risk (though still potentially significant at high dosages). In contrast, AAS that are 4,5α-reduced, and some other AAS (e.g., 11β-methylated 19-nortestosterone derivatives), have no risk of gynecomastia. In addition to gynecomastia, AAS with high estrogenicity have increased antigonadotropic activity, which results in increased potency in suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and gonadal testosterone production.\n\nMany 19-nortestosterone derivatives, including nandrolone, trenbolone, ethylestrenol (ethylnandrol), metribolone (R-1881), trestolone, 11β-MNT, dimethandrolone, and others, are potent agonists of the progesterone receptor (AR) and hence are progestogens in addition to AAS. Similarly to the case of estrogenic activity, the progestogenic activity of these drugs serves to augment their antigonadotropic activity. This results in increased potency and effectiveness of these AAS as antispermatogenic agents and male contraceptives (or, put in another way, increased potency and effectiveness in producing azoospermia and reversible male infertility).\n\nNon-17α-alkylated testosterone derivatives such as testosterone itself, DHT, and nandrolone all have poor oral bioavailability due to extensive first-pass hepatic metabolism and hence are not orally active. A notable exception to this are AAS that are androgen precursors or prohormones, including dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), androstenediol, androstenedione, boldione (androstadienedione), bolandiol (norandrostenediol), bolandione (norandrostenedione), dienedione, mentabolan (MENT dione, trestione), and methoxydienone (methoxygonadiene) (although these are relatively weak AAS). AAS that are not orally active are used almost exclusively in the form of esters administered by intramuscular injection, which act as depots and function as long-acting prodrugs. Examples include testosterone, as testosterone cypionate, testosterone enanthate, and testosterone propionate, and nandrolone, as nandrolone phenylpropionate and nandrolone decanoate, among many others (see here for a full list of testosterone and nandrolone esters). An exception is the very long-chain ester testosterone undecanoate, which is orally active, albeit with only very low oral bioavailability (approximately 3%). In contrast to most other AAS, 17α-alkylated testosterone derivatives show resistance to metabolism due to steric hindrance and are orally active, though they may be esterified and administered via intramuscular injection as well.\n\nIn addition to oral activity, 17α-alkylation also confers a high potential for hepatotoxicity, and all 17α-alkylated AAS have been associated, albeit uncommonly and only after prolonged use (different estimates between 1 and 17%), with hepatotoxicity. In contrast, testosterone esters have only extremely rarely or never been associated with hepatotoxicity, and other non-17α-alkylated AAS only rarely, although long-term use may reportedly still increase the risk of hepatic changes (but at a much lower rate than 17α-alkylated AAS and reportedly not at replacement dosages). In accordance, D-ring glucuronides of testosterone and DHT have been found to be cholestatic.\n\nAside from prohormones and testosterone undecanoate, almost all orally active AAS are 17α-alkylated. A few AAS that are not 17α-alkylated are orally active. Some examples include the testosterone 17-ethers cloxotestosterone, quinbolone, and silandrone, which are prodrugs (to testosterone, boldenone (Δ-testosterone), and testosterone, respectively), the DHT 17-ethers mepitiostane, mesabolone, and prostanozol (which are also prodrugs), the 1-methylated DHT derivatives mesterolone and metenolone (although these are relatively weak AAS), and the 19-nortestosterone derivatives dimethandrolone and 11β-MNT, which have improved resistance to first-pass hepatic metabolism due to their 11β-methyl groups (in contrast to them, the related AAS trestolone (7α-methyl-19-nortestosterone) is not orally active). As these AAS are not 17α-alkylated, they show minimal potential for hepatotoxicity.\n\nDHT, via its metabolite 3α-androstanediol (produced by 3α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3α-HSD)), is a neurosteroid that acts via positive allosteric modulation of the GABA receptor. Testosterone, via conversion into DHT, also produces 3α-androstanediol as a metabolite and hence has similar activity. Some AAS that are or can be 5α-reduced, including testosterone, DHT, stanozolol, and methyltestosterone, among many others, can or may modulate the GABA receptor, and this may contribute as an alternative or additional mechanism to their central nervous system effects in terms of mood, anxiety, aggression, and sex drive.\n\nAAS are androstane or estrane steroids. They include testosterone (androst-4-en-17β-ol-3-one) and derivatives with various structural modifications such as:\n\n\nAs well as others such as 1-dehydrogenation (e.g., metandienone, boldenone), 1-substitution (e.g., mesterolone, metenolone), 2-substitution (e.g., drostanolone, oxymetholone, stanozolol), 4-substitution (e.g., clostebol, oxabolone), and various other modifications.\n\nThe most commonly employed human physiological specimen for detecting AAS usage is urine, although both blood and hair have been investigated for this purpose. The AAS, whether of endogenous or exogenous origin, are subject to extensive hepatic biotransformation by a variety of enzymatic pathways. The primary urinary metabolites may be detectable for up to 30 days after the last use, depending on the specific agent, dose and route of administration. A number of the drugs have common metabolic pathways, and their excretion profiles may overlap those of the endogenous steroids, making interpretation of testing results a very significant challenge to the analytical chemist. Methods for detection of the substances or their excretion products in urine specimens usually involve gas chromatography–mass spectrometry or liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.\n\nThe use of gonadal steroids pre-dates their identification and isolation. Medical use of testicle extract began in the late 19th century while its effects on strength were still being studied. The isolation of gonadal steroids can be traced back to 1931, when Adolf Butenandt, a chemist in Marburg, purified 15 milligrams of the male hormone androstenone from tens of thousands of litres of urine. This steroid was subsequently synthesized in 1934 by Leopold Ružička, a chemist in Zurich.\n\nIn the 1930s, it was already known that the testes contain a more powerful androgen than androstenone, and three groups of scientists, funded by competing pharmaceutical companies in the Netherlands, Germany, and Switzerland, raced to isolate it. This hormone was first identified by Karoly Gyula David, E. Dingemanse, J. Freud and Ernst Laqueur in a May 1935 paper \"On Crystalline Male Hormone from Testicles (Testosterone).\" They named the hormone \"testosterone\", from the stems of \"testicle\" and \"sterol\", and the suffix of \"ketone\". The chemical synthesis of testosterone was achieved in August that year, when Butenandt and G. Hanisch published a paper describing \"A Method for Preparing Testosterone from Cholesterol.\" Only a week later, the third group, Ruzicka and A. Wettstein, announced a patent application in a paper \"On the Artificial Preparation of the Testicular Hormone Testosterone (Androsten-3-one-17-ol).\" Ruzicka and Butenandt were offered the 1939 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work, but the Nazi government forced Butenandt to decline the honor, although he accepted the prize after the end of World War II.\n\nClinical trials on humans, involving either oral doses of methyltestosterone or injections of testosterone propionate, began as early as 1937. Testosterone propionate is mentioned in a letter to the editor of \"Strength and Health\" magazine in 1938; this is the earliest known reference to an AAS in a U.S. weightlifting or bodybuilding magazine. There are often reported rumors that German soldiers were administered AAS during the Second World War, the aim being to increase their aggression and stamina, but these are, as yet, unproven. Adolf Hitler himself, according to his physician, was injected with testosterone derivatives to treat various ailments. AAS were used in experiments conducted by the Nazis on concentration camp inmates, and later by the allies attempting to treat the malnourished victims that survived Nazi camps. President John F. Kennedy was administered steroids both before and during his presidency.\n\nThe development of muscle-building properties of testosterone was pursued in the 1940s, in the Soviet Union and in Eastern Bloc countries such as East Germany, where steroid programs were used to enhance the performance of Olympic and other amateur weight lifters. In response to the success of Russian weightlifters, the U.S. Olympic Team physician John Ziegler worked with synthetic chemists to develop an AAS with reduced androgenic effects. Ziegler's work resulted in the production of methandrostenolone, which Ciba Pharmaceuticals marketed as Dianabol. The new steroid was approved for use in the U.S. by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1958. It was most commonly administered to burn victims and the elderly. The drug's off-label users were mostly bodybuilders and weight lifters. Although Ziegler prescribed only small doses to athletes, he soon discovered that those having abused Dianabol suffered from enlarged prostates and atrophied testes. AAS were placed on the list of banned substances of the IOC in 1976, and a decade later the committee introduced 'out-of-competition' doping tests because many athletes used AAS in their training period rather than during competition.\n\nThree major ideas governed modifications of testosterone into a multitude of AAS: Alkylation at C17α position with methyl or ethyl group created orally active compounds because it slows the degradation of the drug by the liver; esterification of testosterone and nortestosterone at the C17β position allows the substance to be administered parenterally and increases the duration of effectiveness because agents soluble in oily liquids may be present in the body for several months; and alterations of the ring structure were applied for both oral and parenteral agents to seeking to obtain different anabolic-to-androgenic effect ratios.\n\nAndrogens were discovered in the 1930s and were characterized as having effects described as \"androgenic\" (i.e., virilizing) and \"anabolic\" (e.g., myotrophic, renotrophic). The term \"anabolic steroid\" can be dated as far back as at least the mid-1940s, when it was used to describe the at-the-time hypothetical concept of a testosterone-derived steroid with anabolic effects but with minimal or no androgenic effects. This concept was formulated based on the observation that steroids had ratios of renotrophic to androgenic potency that differed significantly, which suggested that anabolic and androgenic effects might be separable.\n\nIn 1953, a testosterone-derived steroid known as norethandrolone (17α-ethyl-19-nortestosterone) was synthesized at G. D. Searle & Company and was studied as a progestin, but was not marketed. Subsequently, in 1955, it was re-examined for testosterone-like activity in animals and was found to have similar anabolic activity to testosterone, but only one-sixteenth of its androgenic potency. It was the first steroid with a marked and favorable separation of anabolic and androgenic effect to be discovered, and has accordingly been described as the \"first anabolic steroid\". Norethandrolone was introduced for medical use in 1956, and was quickly followed by numerous similar steroids, for instance nandrolone phenylpropionate in 1959 and stanozolol in 1962. With these developments, \"anabolic steroid\" became the preferred term to refer to such steroids (over \"androgen\"), and entered widespread use.\n\nAlthough \"anabolic steroid\" was originally intended to specifically describe testosterone-derived steroids with a marked dissociation of anabolic and androgenic effect, it is applied today indiscriminately to all steroids with AR agonism-based anabolic effects regardless of their androgenic potency, including even non-synthetic steroids like testosterone itself. While many anabolic steroids have diminished androgenic relative to anabolic potency, there is no anabolic steroid that is exclusively anabolic, and hence all anabolic steroids retain androgenicity. (Likewise, all \"androgens\" are inherently anabolic.) Indeed, it is probably fundamentally impossible to completely dissociate anabolic and androgenic effects, as both types of effects are mediated by the same signaling receptor, the AR. As such, the distinction between the terms \"anabolic steroid\" and \"androgen\" is questionable, and this is the basis for the revised and more recent term \"anabolic–androgenic steroid\" (\"AAS\").\n\nThe legal status of AAS varies from country to country: some have stricter controls on their use or prescription than others though in many countries they are not illegal. In the U.S., AAS are currently listed as Schedule III controlled substances under the Controlled Substances Act, which makes simple possession of such substances without a prescription a federal crime punishable by up to one year in prison for the first offense. Unlawful distribution or possession with intent to distribute AAS as a first offense is punished by up to ten years in prison. In Canada, AAS and their derivatives are part of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act and are Schedule IV substances, meaning that it is illegal to obtain or sell them without a prescription; however, possession is not punishable, a consequence reserved for schedule I, II, or III substances. Those guilty of buying or selling AAS in Canada can be imprisoned for up to 18 months. Import and export also carry similar penalties.\n\nIn Canada, researchers have concluded that steroid use among student athletes is extremely widespread. A study conducted in 1993 by the Canadian Centre for Drug-Free Sport found that nearly 83,000 Canadians between the ages of 11 and 18 use steroids. AAS are also illegal without prescription in Australia, Argentina, Brazil and Portugal, and are listed as Class C Controlled Drugs in the United Kingdom. AAS are readily available without a prescription in some countries such as Mexico and Thailand.\n\nThe history of the U.S. legislation on AAS goes back to the late 1980s, when the U.S. Congress considered placing AAS under the Controlled Substances Act following the controversy over Ben Johnson's victory at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul. AAS were added to Schedule III of the Controlled Substances Act in the Anabolic Steroids Control Act of 1990.\n\nThe same act also introduced more stringent controls with higher criminal penalties for offenses involving the illegal distribution of AAS and human growth hormone. By the early 1990s, after AAS were scheduled in the U.S., several pharmaceutical companies stopped manufacturing or marketing the products in the U.S., including Ciba, Searle, Syntex, and others. In the Controlled Substances Act, AAS are defined to be any drug or hormonal substance chemically and pharmacologically related to testosterone (other than estrogens, progestins, and corticosteroids) that promote muscle growth. The act was amended by the Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 2004, which added prohormones to the list of controlled substances, with effect from January 20, 2005.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, AAS are classified as class C drugs for their illegal abuse potential, which puts them in the same class as benzodiazepines. AAS are in Schedule 4, which is divided in 2 parts; Part 1 contains most of the benzodiazepines and Part 2 contains the AAS.\n\nPart 1 drugs are subject to full import and export controls with possession being an offence without an appropriate prescription. There is no restriction on the possession when it is part of a medicinal product. Part 2 drugs require a Home Office licence for importation and export unless the substance is in the form of a medicinal product and is for self-administration by a person.\n\nAAS are banned by all major sports bodies including Association of Tennis Professionals, Major League Baseball, Fédération Internationale de Football Association the Olympics, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, World Wrestling Entertainment and the National Football League. The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) maintains the list of performance-enhancing substances used by many major sports bodies and includes all anabolic agents, which includes all AAS and precursors as well as all hormones and related substances. Spain has passed an anti-doping law creating a national anti-doping agency. Italy passed a law in 2000 where penalties range up to three years in prison if an athlete has tested positive for banned substances. In 2006, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed into law ratification of the International Convention Against Doping in Sport which would encourage cooperation with WADA. Many other countries have similar legislation prohibiting AAS in sports including Denmark, France, the Netherlands and Sweden.\n\nUnited States federal law enforcement officials have expressed concern about AAS use by police officers. \"It's a big problem, and from the number of cases, it's something we shouldn't ignore. It's not that we set out to target cops, but when we're in the middle of an active investigation into steroids, there have been quite a few cases that have led back to police officers,\" says Lawrence Payne, a spokesman for the United States Drug Enforcement Administration. The FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin stated that “Anabolic steroid abuse by police officers is a serious problem that merits greater awareness by departments across the country\". It is also believed that police officers across the United Kingdom \"are using criminals to buy steroids\" which he claims to be a top risk factor for police corruption.\n\nFollowing the murder-suicide of Chris Benoit in 2007, the Oversight and Government Reform Committee investigated steroid usage in the wrestling industry. The Committee investigated WWE and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), asking for documentation of their companies' drug policies. WWE CEO and Chairman, Linda and Vince McMahon respectively, both testified. The documents stated that 75 wrestlers—roughly 40 percent—had tested positive for drug use since 2006, most commonly for steroids.\n\nAAS are frequently produced in pharmaceutical laboratories, but, in nations where stricter laws are present, they are also produced in small home-made underground laboratories, usually from raw substances imported from abroad. In these countries, the majority of steroids are obtained illegally through black market trade. These steroids are usually manufactured in other countries, and therefore must be smuggled across international borders. As with most significant smuggling operations, organized crime is involved.\n\nIn the late 2000s, the worldwide trade in illicit AAS increased significantly, and authorities announced record captures on three continents. In 2006, Finnish authorities announced a record seizure of 11.8 million AAS tablets. A year later, the DEA seized 11.4 million units of AAS in the largest U.S seizure ever. In the first three months of 2008, Australian customs reported a record 300 seizures of AAS shipments.\n\nIn the U.S., Canada, and Europe, illegal steroids are sometimes purchased just as any other illegal drug, through dealers who are able to obtain the drugs from a number of sources. Illegal AAS are sometimes sold at gyms and competitions, and through the mail, but may also be obtained through pharmacists, veterinarians, and physicians. In addition, a significant number of counterfeit products are sold as AAS, in particular via mail order from websites posing as overseas pharmacies. In the U.S., black-market importation continues from Mexico, Thailand, and other countries where steroids are more easily available, as they are legal.\n\nAAS, alone and in combination with progestogens, have been studied as potential male hormonal contraceptives. Dual AAS and progestins such as trestolone and dimethandrolone undecanoate have also been studied as male contraceptives, with the latter under active investigation as of 2018.\n"}
{"id": "49475997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49475997", "title": "Ashgabat Complex of game sports", "text": "Ashgabat Complex of game sports\n\nThe Complex of game sports () is an indoor arena located in Olympic Complex, Ashgabat, Turkmenistan. It is owned and operated by Government of Turkmenistan for 2017 Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games. It has a seating capacity of 15,000 for concerts, for the sports like basketball, volleyball, handball, badminton, modern rhythmic gymnastics and artistic gymnastics, fencing, table tennis, trampoline tumbling, judo and wrestling.\n\nThe building has a universal arena 70m х 40 m.\n\n"}
{"id": "26881136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26881136", "title": "Belgian Touring Car Series", "text": "Belgian Touring Car Series\n\nThe Belgian Touring Car Series (BTCS) was an endurance touring car racing series based in Belgium. It is organised by Speedworld and sanctioned by the Royal Automobile Club Belgium. The last BTCS season was in 2011.\n\nMost meetings consist of two 90-minute heats, with an additional 12-hour race at Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps. The 2010 calendar features three races at Spa, three races at Zolder, and one at the French circuit of Dijon-Prenois.\n\nThe series is open to silhouette racing cars as well as regular touring cars. The Silhoutte classes, S1 and S2, include cars such as the Renault Mégane Trophy, GC Automobile GC-10 V8, Peugeot 406 Silhouette, Peugeot 407 Silhouette, and Volvo S60 BTCS. There are four classes for regular touring cars; T1, T2, T3 and T4. Prizes are available for the winners of each class.\n\n"}
{"id": "10512940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10512940", "title": "Bezirksliga", "text": "Bezirksliga\n\nThe Bezirksliga () is commonly a medium set of amateur divisions set at steps 7, 8 or 9 in the German football league system.\n\nDepending on the structural organisation within each of the 21 state football associations of the German Football Association, the Bezirksliga either falls under the state association's jurisdiction or one of its subsidiary county football associations that organise their divisions mostly following the borders of the corresponding government districts. In the league pyramid, the Bezirksliga always ranks below the superior state association's divisions, typically being the Verbandsliga and the Landesliga but ahead of the district associations' Kreisliga.\n\nThe Bezirksliga does not exist within all associations, and where existing it is set in varying numbers and form. The former Bezirksoberliga is currently not existing in the league system, as the Hesse state association renamed the division to Gruppenliga and as the state associations of Lower Saxony and Bavaria disbanded the league in recent years.\n\n"}
{"id": "28369438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28369438", "title": "Burton-on-Trent Cricket Ground", "text": "Burton-on-Trent Cricket Ground\n\nBurton-on-Trent Cricket Ground (exact name unknown) was a cricket ground in Burton-on-Trent, Staffordshire. The first recorded match on the ground was in 1840, when the North played the Marylebone Cricket Club in the grounds first first-class match. The following year the ground held its second and final first-class match when the North again played the Marlybone Cricket Club.\n\nThe final recorded match on the County Ground came in 1848 and saw Burton-on-Trent play Manchester Cricket Club. The exact location of the ground remains unknown, although some sources such as Cricinfo believe the ground may in fact be the Town Ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "31851438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31851438", "title": "Commerce Bank Field at Foley Stadium", "text": "Commerce Bank Field at Foley Stadium\n\nCommerce Bank Field at Foley Stadium is a historic sports venue in Worcester, Massachusetts. It was built in 1927 and was renovated in 2007. It is primarily a stadium used for high school football teams in the city and is owned and operated by the City of Worcester.\n"}
{"id": "10720010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10720010", "title": "Daegu Marathon", "text": "Daegu Marathon\n\nThe Daegu International Marathon is an annual marathon race which takes place in April in Daegu, South Korea. The day's events also feature a 5K event and a 10K event, as well as the full course marathon (42.195 km).\n\nThe race begins and ends at the Daegu Stadium. A comparatively fast course, it hosted the World Championships Marathon in September 2011.\n\nKey: \n\n"}
{"id": "28127696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28127696", "title": "David Lyon (cricketer)", "text": "David Lyon (cricketer)\n\nDavid Walker Lyon (born 2 September 1943) is a former English cricketer. Lyon was a right-handed batsman who bowled right-arm fast-medium. He was born at Douglas, Isle of Man.\n\nLyon made his debut for Cambridgeshire in the 1965 Minor Counties Championship against Bedfordshire. From 1965 to 1972, he represented the county in 15 Minor Counties matches, with his final appearance coming against Bedfordshire.\n\nLyon also represented Cambridgeshire in a single List A cricket match against Buckinghamshire in the 1972 Gillette Cup. In his only List-A match, he took a single wicket at a bowling average of 44.00, with best figures of 1/44.\n\nHis brother, Andrew, played List A cricket for Buckinghamshire and Middlesex.\n\n"}
{"id": "38781317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38781317", "title": "East Coast Railway Stadium", "text": "East Coast Railway Stadium\n\nEast Coast Railway Stadium is a cricket stadium in Bhubaneswar, Odisha. It hosts Ranji Trophy, and other matches. \n\nConstruction of the galleries and renovation of the stadium is under process to make it suitable for international cricket matches.\n\nThe authorities have submitted an Rs 54-crore plan to the Ministry of Railways to upgrade the stadium, making it capable of holding international cricket matches. \n\nAccording to the plan, the stadium will have a seating capacity of nearly 42,000. It will have a parking lot as well as other facilities needed to host international matches.\n\nThe authorities are even planning to build galleries with grassy slopes for spectators as seen in most cricket grounds of New Zealand. \n\nThe present stadium was built across an area of over 22 acres at a cost of Rs 6 crore.\nThe stadium has four turfs for practice. The drainage system is one of the best in the state.\nThe stadium hosted its first Ranji Trophy match in November 2008.\n\nA few Twenty20 matches during the first edition of the Odisha Premier League were also hosted at this venue. \n\nA huge manual scoreboard has been put up for the first time for Odisha versus Karnataka Ranji Trophy match.\n\nIn 2010, Bhubaneswar Stadium was put to use during the Orissa-Punjab Elite Group B Ranji Trophy tournament league match was played. General Manager of East Coast Railway AK Vohra inaugurated the match. Former Australian cricketer and Odisha coach Michael Bevan was also present. \n"}
{"id": "21568665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21568665", "title": "Ekspres Lviv", "text": "Ekspres Lviv\n\nHockey Club Express (, \"Ekspres\") are an ice hockey team based in Lviv, Ukraine. They are currently playing in the Western Ukrainian Amateur Hockey League.\n"}
{"id": "25695269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25695269", "title": "Estadio Alfonso Colmán", "text": "Estadio Alfonso Colmán\n\nEstadio Alfonso Colmán is a multi-use stadium in Fernando de la Mora, Paraguay. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Club Sport Colombia of the Primera División de Paraguay. The stadium holds 7,000 spectators\n\n"}
{"id": "3030087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3030087", "title": "Estadio Monumental David Arellano", "text": "Estadio Monumental David Arellano\n\nThe Estadio Monumental is a soccer Stadium in Macul, south-east of the centre of the Chilean capital Santiago. It serves as the home ground of Colo-Colo, and on occasions also for other clubs and the national football team. The stadium has a current spectator capacity of 47,347. The actual playing field is named after David Arellano, the founder of Colo-Colo, therefore, on occasions the whole stadium is referred to as Estadio Monumental David Arellano.\n\nThe stadium was first opened in 1975 with a double-header in front of 25,599 people. In the first match Santiago Morning and Santiago Wanderers drew 1-1 and in the main event Colo-Colo defeated Deportes Aviación 1-0, Carlos Orellana being the scorer. However, the stadium proved unsuitable for ongoing use, and therefore only five more matches took place there for the time being.\n\nCompleted in its current form in 1989, it was reopened in September of that year with a match between Colo-Colo and CA Peñarol from Uruguay, which the hosts won 2-1, thanks to goals by Marcelo Barticciotto and Leonel Herrera. The official capacity of the stadium then was between 62,500 and 65,000 spectators. The highest ever recorded attendance when 69,305 spectators saw a league match between Colo-Colo and Club Universidad de Chile in 1992. In the 2016-17 season, Colo-Colo drew an average home league attendance of 21,509 for the Apertura and 23,229 for the Clausura. The stadium was in 1991 home to the second Copa Libertadores final, won by Colo-Colo 3-0, making it the sole Chilean club to win the trophy.\n\nAccidents, including a fatality in 1993, instigated various modernisations which led to a reduction of the capacity to the current 47,000 spectators.\n\nThe stadium is also rented out to club Santiago Morning and other Chilean teams that require holding games on the international tournament scale. It has also been used by the Chile national football team when the Estadio Nacional, the main football stadium of the country, is unavailable. The American rock band Pearl Jam played at the stadium on November 16, 2011, as part of their 20th anniversary tour.\n\nIts principal tenant and owner is the corporate entity \"Blanco y Negro\" that runs Colo-Colo and for which Chilean billionaire and President Sebastián Piñera is a major shareholder.\n\nAs well as hosting club teams, Estadio Monumental has held seven games between Chile and other national squads. In 1997, Ivan Zamorano scored five goals for Chile in a 6-0 win over Venezuela during a France 1998 World Cup qualifier. In 2009, Chile drew 2-2 in another qualifier against Venezuela for the South Africa 2010 World Cup, and won 1-0 against Ecuador for a qualifier in the same competition. In 2012, Chile played two qualifiers for the Brazil 2014 World Cup at the Estadio Monumental, winning 4-2 against Peru, and losing 1-3 against Colombia. Two international friendly matches have been held the stadium: a 2-0 win for Chile over Uruguay in 2010, and a 4-0 Chilean victory over Estonia in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2476925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2476925", "title": "Football in Andorra", "text": "Football in Andorra\n\nThe sport of football in the country of Andorra is run by the Andorran Football Federation. The federation administers the Andorran national football team, as well as the Andorran First Division.\n\nThe national team has existed since 1996. They have recorded three victories, against Belarus, Albania, and Republic of Macedonia, all of which were at home. They are one of the most penalized teams in Europe, having received more red and yellow cards in the WC 2006 Qualifiers than any other team. \n\nAlbert Celades is an Andorran, who has played for both FC Barcelona and Real Madrid. The midfielder never made an appearance for the Andorran squad. However, he did make it to the Spanish national team. \n\nFC Andorra is the only Andorran team to play in the Spanish football league system instead of the domestic league.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42459435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42459435", "title": "Forces Armées Centrafricaine", "text": "Forces Armées Centrafricaine\n\nForces Armées CA is an association football club in the Central African Republic based in Bangui.\n\nThe team plays in the Central African Republic Second Division.\n\nIn 1991 the team the Central African Republic League.\n\nCurrently the team plays at the 35000 capacity Barthelemy Boganda Stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "51274797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51274797", "title": "Gol Gohar Sport Complex", "text": "Gol Gohar Sport Complex\n\nGol Gohar Sport Complex is the own sports complex of Gol Gohar Cultural and Sport Club based in Sirjan, Iran. The sports complex includes sports halls, an indoor swimming pool and a football stadium. The stadium is able to hold 3,200 people. It is the home venue of Gol Gohar Football Club.\n"}
{"id": "10620156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10620156", "title": "Golden Dragon F.C.", "text": "Golden Dragon F.C.\n\nThe Golden Dragon Football Club of Magburaka normally referred to as \"Golden Dragon\", is Sierra Leonean professional football club based in Magburaka, Sierra Leone. They currently play in the Sierra Leone National Premier League, the top football league in Sierra Leone after being promoted from the Nationwide First Division, the second highest football league in the country.\n\nAt the end of the 2009/10, Golden Dragon were relegated to the Sierra Leone National First Division.\n"}
{"id": "17178742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17178742", "title": "Guatemala national baseball team", "text": "Guatemala national baseball team\n\nThe Guatemala national baseball team is the national baseball team of Guatemala. The team is controlled by the Amateur Baseball Federation of Guatemala, and represents the nation in international competitions. The team is a member of the Pan American Baseball Confederation.\n"}
{"id": "11438768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11438768", "title": "HPER Complex", "text": "HPER Complex\n\nThe HPER Complex (short for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation) is a multipurpose facility on the campus of the University of Arkansas. Built in 1984, it is designed to house the entire Health Science, Kinesiology, Recreation, and Dance programs. The department of University Recreation is housed in the HPER and helps to run the daily operation of the facility. It has four levels (floors), as listed below. The facility is currently under the direction of Jeremy Battjes, Director of University Recreation.\n\nLevel 1 is home to ten racquetball courts (eight of which have glass back walls, and two of which have solid black walls), as well as an observation lounge. Two of the courts are even marked for wallyball and squash. It also is home to the Outdoor Connection Center, where various outdoor equipment can be rented at a nominal fee.\n\nLevel 2 is home to 50-meter, 533,000 gallon natatorium (unique in its shallowest end being in the middle), a multiple-activity gymnasium with a seating capacity of 400 and a regulation-sized college basketball court (which is part-time home to the Arkansas Fantastics of the American Basketball Association), the Donna Auxum Fitness & Weight Training Center, and two dance studios (a practice one, and a performance one with a seating capacity of 200).\n\nLevel 3 is home to three gymnasiums, a human performance laboratory, five classrooms, and the faculty offices.\n\nThe top level holds a jogging track, with the outside lane ⅛ of a mile in length.\n"}
{"id": "759222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=759222", "title": "History of the West Indian cricket team", "text": "History of the West Indian cricket team\n\nThe history of the West Indian cricket team begins in the 1880s when the first combined West Indian team was formed and toured Canada and the United States. In the 1890s, the first representative sides were selected to play visiting English sides. Administered by the West Indies Cricket Board (\"WICB\"), and known colloquially as The Windies, the West Indies cricket team represents a sporting confederation of English-speaking Caribbean countries.\n\nThe WICB joined the sport's international ruling body, the Imperial Cricket Council, in 1926, and played their first official international match, which in cricket is called a Test, in 1928. Although blessed with some great players in their early days as a Test nation, their successes remained sporadic until the 1960s, by which time the side had changed from a white-dominated to a black-dominated side. By the late 1970s, the West Indies had a side recognised as unofficial world champions, a title they retained throughout the 1980s. Their team from the 1970s and 1980s is now widely regarded as having been one of the best in test cricket's history, alongside Don Bradman's Invincibles. During these glory years, the Windies were noted for their four-man fast bowling attack, backed up by some of the best batsmen in the world. The 1980s saw them set a then-record streak of 11 consecutive Test victories in 1984, which was part of a still-standing record of 27 tests without defeat (the other tests being draws), as well as inflicting two 5–0 \"blackwashes\" against the old enemy of England. Throughout the 1990s and 2000s, however, West Indian cricket declined, in part due to the rise in popularity of athletics and football in West Indian countries, and the team today is struggling to regain its past glory.\n\nIn their early days in the 1930s, the side represented the British colonies of the West Indies Federation plus British Guyana. The current side represents the now independent states of Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Trinidad and Tobago, and the British dependencies of Anguilla, Montserrat and the British Virgin Islands along with the U.S. Virgin Islands and St. Maarten. National teams also exist for the various islands, which, as they are all separate countries, very much keep their local identities and support their local favourites. These national teams take part in the West Indian first-class competition, the Stanford 20/20, the Carib Beer Cup (earlier known as the \"Busta Cup\", \"Shell Shield\" and various other names). It is also common for other international teams to play the island teams for warm-up games before they take on the combined West Indies team.\n\nThe first major international cricket played in the West Indies was between local, often predominantly white, sides and English tourists – the Middlesex player Robert Slade Lucas toured the West Indies with a team in 1894–95, and two years later Arthur Priestley took a team to Barbados, Trinidad, and Jamaica, which included, for the first time, a match against a side styled \"All West Indies\", which the West Indians won. Lord Hawke's English team, including several English Test players, toured around the same time, playing Trinidad, Barbados and British Guiana (now Guyana). Then in 1900 the white Trinidadian Aucher Warner, the brother of future England captain Pelham Warner, led a touring side to England, but none of the matches on this tour were given first-class status. Two winters later, in 1901–02, the Hampshire wicketkeeper Richard Bennett's XI went to the West Indies, and played three games against teams styled as the \"West Indies\", which the hosts won 2–1. In 1904–05, Lord Brackley's XI toured the Caribbean – winning both its games against \"West Indies\".\n\nThe tours to England continued in 1906 when Harold Austin led a West Indian side to England. His side played a number of county teams, and drew their game against an \"England XI\". However, that England XI only included one contemporary Test player – wicketkeeper Dick Lilley – and he had not been on England's most recent tour, their 1905–6 tour of South Africa. The Marylebone Cricket Club, which had taken over responsibility for arranging all official overseas England tours, visited the West Indies in 1910–11, and 1912–13 but after that there was no international cricket of any note until the West Indian team went to England in 1923. This tour did not include a game against an England team, but there was an end-of-season game against HDG Leveson-Gower's XI against a virtual England Test side at the Scarborough cricket festival, a traditional end-of-season game against a touring side at the English seaside resort of Scarborough, which Leveson-Gower's XI won by only four wickets. 1925–26 saw another MCC tour of the West Indies.\n\nThe MCC was eager to promote cricket throughout the British Empire, and on 31 May 1926 the West Indian Cricket Board, along with their New Zealand and Indian counterparts, was elected to the Imperial Cricket Conference (ICC), which previously consisted of the MCC and representatives of Australia and South Africa. Election to full membership of the ICC meant the West Indies could play official Test matches, which is the designation given to the most important international games, and the Windies became the fourth team actually to play a recognised Test match on 23 June 1928 when they took on England at Lord's in London. They did not, however, enjoy immediate success – the West Indies lost all three 3-day Tests in that 1928 tour by a long way, failing to score 250 runs in any of their six innings in that series. They also failed to dismiss England for under 350 runs in a series completely dominated by England.\n\nThe West Indies played 19 Tests in the 1930s in four series against England and one against Australia. The first four of these were played against an England team led by the Honourable Freddie Calthorpe that toured in 1929–30. However, as Harold Gilligan was leading another English team to New Zealand at exactly the same time, this was not a full-strength England side. The series ended one-all, with the West Indies first ever Test victory being recorded on 26 February 1930. West Indians George Headley scored the most runs (703) in the rubber and Learie Constantine took the most wickets (18).\n\nThe Windies toured Australia in 1930–31. They lost the Test series 4–1. The fifth and final Test showed some promise – batting first, the West Indies spent the first three days earning a 250-run lead with five wickets down in their second innings. A bold declaration was backed up by their bowlers, as Herman Griffith took four wickets and West Indies won by 30 runs to their first overseas Test victory. By the time the team left, they had left a good impression of themselves with the Australian public, although at first the team were faced with several cultural differences – for example, their hosts did not at first appreciate that the tourists' Roman Catholic beliefs would mean they would refuse to play golf on Sundays or engage in more ribald behaviour. The West Indian sides of the time were always led by white men, and the touring party to Australia comprised seven whites and eleven \"natives\", and the West Indian Board of Control wrote to their Australian counterparts saying \"that all should reside at the same hotels\". Australia at the time had in place its \"White Australia\" policy, with the Australian Board having to guarantee to the Government that the non-whites would leave at the end of the tour. When the West Indians arrived in Sydney, the whites were immediately given a different hotel from the blacks. They complained, and thereafter their wishes were met. The tour lost a lot of money, part of which was due to the Great Depression then affecting Australia. The West Indians won four and lost eight of their 14 first-class fixtures.\n\n1933 saw another tour of England. Their hosts had just come back from defeating Australia in the infamous \"Bodyline\" series, where England's aggressive bowling at the body with a legside field attracted much criticism. England won the three-Test series of three-day Tests against the Windies 2–0. The second, drawn, Test at Old Trafford, Manchester, provided an intriguing footnote to the Bodyline controversy when Manny Martindale and Learie Constantine bowled Bodyline – fast, short-pitched balls aimed at the body – against the Englishmen, the only time they faced it in international cricket. The tactic did not work, as Douglas Jardine, the English captain who ordered his players to bowl it against the Australians, did not flinch as he scored his only Test century, making 127 out of England's 374.\n\nAnother England tour of the West Indies followed in 1934–35. England won the first Test in Barbados on a poor pitch, affected by rain, and in a match where 309 runs were scored, England took a four-wicket victory. Both sides declared one of their innings closed to have their bowlers take advantage of the poor pitch. The second Test saw the Windies win by 217 runs, and a drawn third Test saw the series go to a decider at Sabina Park in Jamaica. A massive 270 not out from George Headley saw the Windies declare on 535 for 7. Despite a century from Les Ames, England could not avoid going down by an innings and 161 runs – the West Indies had secured their first Test series victory.\n\nThe West Indies toured England in 1939. England won the first Test at Lord's easily by 8 wickets, then there was a rain-affected draw in Manchester, and finally a high-scoring draw at the Oval in mid-August. The highlight of the series for the West Indies was George Headley scoring hundreds in both innings in the Lord's Test. With the clouds of World War II seemingly about to envelope Europe, the rest of the tour was cancelled and the Windies returned home. They would play no more Tests until 21 January 1948 saw the start of the first Test the West Indies played since the War, which resulted in a draw against the MCC side from England. The second Test was also drawn, with George Carew and Andy Ganteaume both making centuries. Ganteaume was then dropped, ending with a Test average of 112 – the highest in Test history. The West Indies won the final two Tests chasing sub-100 totals, and wrapped up the series 2–0, their first away-series victory.\n\nIn 1948, West Indies toured newly independent India for the first time for a five Test tour. The tour was preceded by a non-Test tour of Pakistan and followed by a similar short tour of Ceylon. After three high-scoring draws against the Indians, the West Indians wrapped up the fourth by an innings before a thrilling fifth Test, which left the Indians six runs away from victory with two wickets in hand as time ran out, so that the West Indies thus won the rubber 1–0. Carrying on from his hundred in the series against England, Everton Weekes set a record of scoring hundreds in five successive Test innings.\n\n1950 saw another tour of England, the series saw the emergence for the West Indies of their great spinning duo, Sonny Ramadhin and Alf Valentine. England won the first Test by 202 runs, but Valentine and Ramadhin's bowling would win the series for the visitors. The second Test saw the Windies put on 326 thanks to 106 from Allan Rae before Valentine (4 for 48) and Ramadhin (5 for 66) skittled England in the first innings. A mammoth 168 from Clyde Walcott saw England set a theoretical target of 601. Ramadhin's 6 for 86 and Valentine's 3 for 79 dismissed the hosts for 274. The spinning duo took 12 wickets, Frank Worrell made 261 and Everton Weekes 129 as the third Test went the Windies way by 10 wickets, the fourth saw 14 wickets from Valentine and Ramadhin and centuries from Rae and Worrell as England were defeated by an innings. The West Indies won the series 3–1.\n\nIn 1951–1952 the Windies visited Australia. The first Test saw a narrow defeat by three wickets, with the two spinners seemingly continuing their form with twelve wickets between them. The second Test was lost by seven wickets, as Australia replied to the Windies 362 and 290 with 567 (which included centuries from Lindsay Hassett and Keith Miller) and 137 for 2. 6 wickets from Worrell in the third Test saw Australia dismissed for only 82, and the Windies eventually won by six wickets to pull back to two-one down in the series. The fourth Test saw the series lost in a narrow defeat. Worrell, batting with an injured hand, scored 108 and helped the Windies to 272 before Australia made 216 in reply. 203 from the Windies left Australia a target of 260. 5 wickets from Valentine helped reduced the Aussies to 222 for 9, 38 short with 1 wicket remaining. It didn't happen, as some brilliant running between the wicket for Australia by Bill Johnston and Doug Ring saw West Indies lose their composure and the match. The fifth Test saw three batting collapses, as Australia (116 and 377) beat Windies (78 and 213) by 202 runs to finish the rubber four-one winners. The West Indies then went on to New Zealand. In the first Test encounter between the two teams, the visitors scored a five wicket victory. In the second and final Test, Allan Rae scored 99, Jeffrey Stollmeyer 152, Frank Worrell 100 and Clyde Walcott 115 as the West Indies put on 546 for 6 declared. There wasn't enough time to bowl out the opposition twice though, as the hosts made 160 and were following-on at 17 for 1 when stumps were drawn, leaving the Windies series winners.\n\nThe Indians toured at the beginning of 1953. The Windies won the second of the five Tests that were played, with the others all being draws. The highlight of these games we Frank Worrell's 237 in the fifth Test, where all the three W's scored hundreds, as the West Indies scored a 1–0 series victory. Len Hutton led an MCC (England) side to the islands in 1953–1954. Sonny Ramadhin again starred for the Windies taking 23 wickets (no other West Indian took more than 8), as Walcott's 698 runs was more than 200 higher than second-placed West Indian, Everton Weekes. The five match rubber was drawn two-all.\n\nAustralia came and conquered in 1954–1955. After the Aussies made 515 in the first innings of the first Test, the Windies went down by 9 wickets. Then the Windies 382 was put in the shade by 600 for 9 declared by the visitors as the second Test was drawn. A low-scoring third Test saw Australia (257 and 133 for 2) beat the hosts (182 and 207) by 8 wickets. After Australia scored 668 in the fourth Test, the series was lost, although a double century from captain Denis Atkinson and a world-record stand for the seventh wicket allowed the Windies to reach 510 and draw the Test. The fifth Test saw the West Indies win the toss and bat. Walcott's 155 was the highest score of their 357. The Australians then batted and batted, in total for 245.4 overs in the 6-day Test, as they put on 758 for 8 declared, with five players making centuries. 319 in the West Indies' second innings left them defeated by an innings and 82 runs in the Test, and by three games to nil in the series. Walcott set records by scoring five hundreds, and hundreds in both innings of a match twice. A four-Test tour of New Zealand followed in February 1956. After two wins by an innings and one by 9 wickets, the Windies were surprised by the Kiwis in the fourth, dismissing them for 145 and 77 as they recorded their first ever Test win in their 45th Test.\n\nJohn Goddard returned to captain the West Indians for a five-Test tour of England in 1957, which was lost three-nil, with England having the better of the two draws. Then 1957–1958 Gerry Alexander led a team that defeated Pakistan three-one. It was in this series in Jamaica that Garry Sobers scored 365 not out to record what was then the highest score in Test match cricket. Alexander went on to lead the West Indies to a three-nil win over five Tests in India, and a 2–1 defeat by Pakistan in a three match rubber in the following winter. In 1959–1960 he led as West Indies went down one-nil at home in a five-match series with England.\n\nDespite being a region where whites are a minority, until 1960 West Indies were always captained by white cricketers, though this was more social than racial discrimination. Throughout the 1950s, social theorist CLR James, the increasingly political former cricketer Learie Constantine and others called for a black captain. Constantine himself had stood in for Jackie Grant in the field against England on the 1937–38 tour, and George Headley captained the West Indies in the First Test against England in 1947–48 when the appointed, white captain, John Goddard was injured. However, no black was appointed as captain for a whole series until Frank Worrell was chosen to lead West Indies in their tour of Australia in 1960–61. In his three years as captain, Worrell moulded a bunch of talented but raw cricketers into probably the best team in the world.\n\nIn 1960, Australia were the best team in the world but on their way down, while West Indies were on their way up. It so happened that when they met, the two teams were of almost equal strength. The result was a series that has been recognised as one of the greatest of all time. The first Test in Brisbane was the first Test ever to end in a tie, which in cricket means the side batting last has been dismissed with scores level. The teams shared the next two Tests. In the fourth, Australia's last pair of Ken Mackay and Lindsay Kline played out the last 100 minutes of the match to earn a draw, while Australia won the final Test and the series by two wickets. One of the days of play was attended by a world-record crowd of 90,800. Such was the impression created by Worrell's team that the newly instituted trophy for the series between the two teams was named the Frank Worrell Trophy.\n\nWest Indies beat India 5–0 at home next year, and in 1963, they beat a fine English team by three matches to one. The Lord's Test of this series saw a famous finish. With two balls left, England needed six runs to win, and West Indies one wicket. The non-striker was Colin Cowdrey, who had his left arm in a sling, having fractured it earlier in the day. However, David Allen safely played out the last two balls and the match ended in a draw. Worrell retired at the end of the series. The selectors picked Garry Sobers to succeed him.\n\nWorrell did, however, serve as the team manager when West Indies hosted Australia in 1964–65. The matches against Australia were bitterly fought, with accusations about Charlie Griffith's action (he was accused of throwing, which is banned in the laws of cricket) and bouncer wars. The West Indies won this series 2–1 to be the unofficial world champions. Sobers was not as good at man-management as Worrell and cracks soon began to appear. Often it was his individual brilliance that made the difference between a win and a loss. Throughout the 1960s, West Indies bowling was led by Wes Hall, Griffith, Lance Gibbs and Sobers himself. Hall and Griffith faded and then retired by the end of the decade, but WI could find no replacement for them till the mid-1970s.\n\nSobers was at his best in England in 1966, scoring 722 runs and taking 20 wickets in the five Tests. Three times he topped 150, and the 163* at Lord's turned a certain defeat into a near victory. West Indies won 3–1. England toured the West Indies in 1967–68 for a series that became noted for England's deliberate slow play. West Indies were forced to follow on in the first Test but saved it without difficulty. The second Test was played on an underprepared wicket at Kingston. England won an important toss and scored 376. The bounce of the wicket having become very uneven, West Indies collapsed to 143 and followed on. On the fourth day in the second innings, a disputed decision led to a crowd riot, and the match had to be stopped for some time. In a curious decision, the West Indian Cricket Board (WICB) agreed to add a 75-minute sixth day to compensate for the lost time. Sobers played an outstanding innings of 113 not out, which allowed West Indies to set England a target of 159 in 155 minutes. England just about saved the game, losing eight wickets for 68. In the fourth Test West Indies gained a first innings lead of 122 at Port-of-Spain, but with the second innings score at 92 for 2, Sobers, frustrated by England's slow over rates and wanting to give himself a chance, albeit a small one, to win, surprisingly declared the innings, a decision for which he was widely criticised at the time. England were set a target of 215 in 165 minutes and they achieved it with 3 minutes to spare. West Indies made one last effort to win the final Test, but England drew it with only wicket left in their second innings. West Indies lost the series 0–1, the first defeat since 1960–61.\n\nAustralia and Bill Lawry had their revenge in 1968–69, when West Indies lost the away series 1–3. New Zealand managed to draw the series that followed, and then in 1969 West Indies were defeated 0–2 in England.\n\nWest Indies' woes overflowed into the 1970s. At home in 1970–71, they lost to India for the first time. In the next year, a five Test series against New Zealand cricket team ended with no team coming close to winning one. A major find in the New Zealand series was Lawrence Rowe, who started off with a double century and century on his debut. Under Rohan Kanhai's captaincy, West Indies showed the first signs of revival. Australia won the closely fought 1972–73 series in the Caribbean by two Tests. With Sobers back – but Kanhai still the captain – West Indies defeated England 2–0 in 1973. This included a win by an innings and 226 runs at Lord's, their biggest win against England. The return series in West Indies ended 1–1, though the home team was the better side. Rowe continued his run scoring three centuries including a 302 at Kingston. The final Test of this 1973–74 series marked the end of an era in West Indies cricket – it was the last Test of both Garry Sobers and Rohan Kanhai, and marked the emergence of fast bowler Andy Roberts.\n\nThe new captain Clive Lloyd had made his first appearance in Test cricket in 1966 and had since become a fixture in the side. His avuncular, bespectacled appearance and a stoop near the shoulders masked the fact that he was a very fine fielder, especially in the covers, and a devastating stroke player. Lloyd's first assignment was the tour of India in 1974–75. West Indies won the first two Tests comfortably. Gordon Greenidge started his career with 107 and 93 in the first Test. Vivian Richards failed on his debut, but scored 192* in his second. India fought back to win the next two, but Lloyd hit 242* in the final Test to win the series.\n\nWest Indies won the inaugural World Cup in England in 1975, defeating Australia in the final. Then in 1975–76 they toured Australia, only to lose 1–5 in the six-Test series, and then beat India at home two-one in a four Test series later that same winter. It was in Australia that the quick bowler Michael Holding made his first appearance. Colin Croft and Joel Garner made their debut the next year, and Malcolm Marshall two years after. In the span of about four years, West Indies brought together a bowling line-up of a quality that had rarely been seen before. The tour of India had seen the debut of Vivian Richards, arguably the finest West Indian batsman ever, and Gordon Greenidge, who joined a strong batting line-up that already included Alvin Kallicharran and opener Roy Fredericks in addition to Rowe and Lloyd. These players formed the nucleus of the side that became recognised as world Test match champions until the beginning of the 1990s.\n\nNext came a tour of England in 1976. In a TV interview before the series, English captain Tony Greig commented that the West Indies tend to do badly under pressure and that \"we'll make them grovel\". This comment, especially as it came from a South African-born player, touched a raw nerve of the West Indians. Throughout the series, the English batsmen were subjected to some very hostile bowling. After the first two Tests ended in draws, West Indies won the next three. Of the many heroes for West Indies, Richards stood out with 829 runs in four Tests. He hit 232 at Trent Bridge and 291 at the Oval. Greenidge scored three hundreds, two of which were on the difficult wicket at Old Trafford. Roberts and Holding shared 55 wickets between them, Holding's 8 for 92 and 6 for 57 on the unhelpful wicket at the Oval being a superlative effort.\n\nWest Indies won a home series against a tough Pakistan side in 1976–77. A few months later, the World Series Cricket (WSC) controversy broke out. Most of the West Indian players signed up with Kerry Packer, an Australian TV magnate who was attempting to set up his own international cricket competition. The Australian team that toured West Indies the next year included no Packer players. West Indies Cricket Board fielded a full-strength team under the argument that none of the West Indies players had refused to play, but disputes arose in the matter of payment and about the selection of certain players. Before the third Test, Lloyd resigned his captaincy. Within two days all the other WSC-contracted players also withdrew. Alvin Kallicharran captained the team for the remaining Tests of the series, which the Windies won three-one.\n\nWICB allowed the WSC players to appear in the 1979 World Cup, and the West Indies retained the title with little difficulty. By the end of 1979, the WSC disputes were resolved. Kallicharran was deposed after losing a six-match series one-nil in India and Lloyd returned as captain for a tour against a full-strength Australia (where the Windies won two-nil, with one draw) and New Zealand. The latter tour was full of controversy. New Zealand won the first Test at Dunedin by one wicket, but West Indies were never happy with the umpiring. West Indian discontent boiled over the next Test at Christchurch. While running into bowl, Colin Croft deliberately shouldered the umpire Fred Goodall. When Goodall went to talk to Lloyd about Croft's behaviour, he had to walk all the way to meet the West Indian captain, as the latter did not move an inch from his position at the slips. After tea on the third day, West Indies refused to take the field unless Goodall was removed. They were persuaded to continue, and it took intense negotiations between the two boards to keep the tour on track. The Kiwis won the three match series after the second and third Tests ended in draws. Nevertheless, the defeat proved to be the West Indies last Test series loss for the next 15 years.\n\nThe 1980s started with a one-nil victory away to England over five Tests, one-nil away to Pakistan over four Tests, two-nil home to England over four Tests and a one-all draw away to Australia. Then in 1982–83, a West Indian rebel team toured apartheid South Africa. It was led by Lawrence Rowe and included prominent players like Alvin Kallicharran, Colin Croft, Collis King and Sylvester Clarke. WICB banned the players for life (which was later revoked), and some were refused entry back home. However, the rebels managed another tour the next year, which included most of the players of the original team. Despite this loss of talent, the official Windies side continued to dominate. During this time, the West Indies established themselves as one of Test cricket's all-time great sides, peaking perhaps on their tour of England in 1984, where they won the series 5–0, the only time in Test cricket history the touring side has whitewashed a five-test series. This was followed by a second \"blackwash\" against England at home in 1985–86. At the same time, the West Indies established the then-record of 11 consecutive Test victories, which was part of a still-standing record of 27 Tests without defeat. In the period from 1980 to 1985–86 they won 10 out of 11 Test series, the 1981–82 series in Australia being drawn 1–1. The West Indies' only notable defeat in this period was in the one-day arena, when, to general surprise, they lost to India in the final of the 1983 World Cup.\n\nWest Indian captain Lloyd retired from Test cricket at the end of the 1984–85 series against Australia. In total Lloyd had captained West Indies in 74 Test matches, winning 36 of them. Vivian Richards was Lloyd's successor, and continued the run of success. Meanwhile, a change of old guard was also happening. Joel Garner and Michael Holding had retired by 1987. A major find was Curtly Ambrose, who was as tall as Garner and equally effective with the ball. Courtney Walsh, who made his first appearance in 1984, bowled with an action that resembled Holding. Ian Bishop also had a similar action, and was as good a bowler till injuries interrupted his career. Patrick Patterson was faster than all the rest, but had a short career. Marshall still was the finest fast bowler in the world. But the batting was beginning to show signs of weakness, despite the presence of Richards, Greenidge and Desmond Haynes. West Indies failed to qualify for the semifinals of the 1987 World Cup. By the end of the 1980s, while still the best team in the world, they had lost the aura of invincibility that they had till the middle of the decade. Finding good replacements for senior players was again becoming a problem.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, the West Indies team was dealt a massive blow with the retirement of its star players like Richards, Greenidge, Dujon and Marshall (who all retired after the away series against England in 1991), bringing an end to a glorious era. This left a youthful and inexperienced side. Indeed, after Richards' retirement the only players with significant experience were Richie Richardson (who was appointed the new captain of the side), Desmond Haynes (who was soon dropped), Gus Logie (who was recalled), Courtney Walsh (who was now the leader of the West Indian pace attack) and Roger Harper (who came and went). However, this did not immediately affect their performance. Richie Richardson proved to be a decent successor to Richards. A new crop of young players emerged such as Brian Lara, Curtly Ambrose, Ian Bishop, Jimmy Adams, Carl Hooper, Phil Simmons, Keith Arthurton and Winston Benjamin. It was five more years before the West Indies lost a series, but they had a number of close shaves before then. Making a comeback to international cricket, South Africa played its first Test match in Bridgetown, a match which was attended by fewer than 10,000 people because of a boycott. Needing 201 to win on the last day, South Africa reached 123 for 2 before Ambrose and Walsh took the remaining 8 wickets for 25 runs. In 1992–93, the West Indies defeated Australia by one run in Adelaide, where a loss would have cost them the series. In 1994–95, the West Indies salvaged a draw in India when, after losing the first Test and drawing the second, they secured a win in the third. In 1992, the West Indies once again failed to qualify for the World Cup semi-finals.\n\nAustralia finally defeated the West Indies 2–1 in 1994–95 to become the unofficial world champions of Test cricket. The 1996 World Cup ended with a defeat in the semi-final, which forced Richie Richardson to end his career. The captaincy passed over to Courtney Walsh and then in 1998 to Brian Lara. The West Indies made their first ever official tour to South Africa in 1998–99. It was a disaster, starting with player revolts and ending with a 5–0 defeat. The 1999 World Cup campaign ended in the group stages. The next year, England won a series against the West Indies for the first time in thirty-one years. The West Indies ended the decade with another 5–0 defeat, this time in Australia.\n\nFor most of the 1990s, the West Indian batting lineup was dominated by Brian Lara. Lara became a regular in the side after the retirement of Viv Richards in 1991. In 1993–94, he scored 375 against England in Antigua, breaking Sobers' world record for the highest individual score in Test cricket. He continued his fine form playing for Warwickshire in the 1994 English County Championship, posting seven first-class hundreds in eight innings (including the Test match 375). The last of these was 501 not out against Durham, which improved upon Hanif Mohammad's thirty-five-year-old record as the highest score in first-class cricket. The West Indian bowling attack was spearheaded by Curtly Ambrose and Courtney Walsh, the latter setting a then world record of 519 wickets. However, these two had both retired by 2001, and their successors failed to maintain the high standards that Ambrose and Walsh had set. Despite the emergence of some good batsmen like Shivnarine Chanderpaul and Ramnaresh Sarwan, Brian Lara remained the crucial figure of the side.\n\nAfter a 2–0 defeat by New Zealand in 1999–00, Lara was replaced as captain by Jimmy Adams, who initially enjoyed series wins against Zimbabwe and Pakistan. However, a 3–1 defeat by England and a 5–0 whitewash by Australia saw him replaced by Carl Hooper for the 2000–01 visit by South Africa. By the time Lara was restored to the captaincy in 2002–03, series had been lost to South Africa, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, New Zealand and India. The only series win of note was against India (although Zimbabwe and Bangladesh were also beaten) as the West Indies plummeted to eighth place in the world-rankings, below all the other established Test nations.\n\nAfter losing the first series of his second captaincy period to world champions Australia, Lara secured success against Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe, before another poor run saw 3–0 defeats in 4-Test series against both South Africa and England. In the drawn fourth Test against England, Lara became the only man to regain the world record for highest individual Test score by scoring 400 not out, once again in Antigua, bettering Matthew Hayden's 380 against Zimbabwe the previous year. The West Indies were then whitewashed 4–0 in England. Lara's last act as captain was to win the 2004 ICC Champions Trophy, a one-day competition second only to the Cricket World Cup, at the Oval, London – a win that was a welcome surprise for the Caribbean which had just been hit by Hurricane Ivan.\n\nThis joy was short-lived as a major dispute broke out in 2005 between the West Indian Players Association (WIPA) and the Cricket Board. The point of contention was clause 5 of the tour contract which gave WICB \"the sole and exclusive right to arrange for sponsorship, advertising, licensing, merchandising and promotional activities relating to WICB or any WICB Team\". Digicel were the sponsors of the West Indian Team, while most of the players had contracts with Cable & Wireless. This conflict, coupled with a payment dispute meant that the West Indies initially announced a team absent Lara and a number of other leading West Indians for South Africa's visit in 2004–05, leading to Shivnarine Chanderpaul becoming captain. Some of these players did, in the end, compete. However, the dispute had not been resolved and rumbled on, leading to a second-string side being named for the tour of Sri Lanka in 2005. A resolution did not arise until October 2005, when a full-strength side was finally named for the 2005–06 tour of Australia. It was on this tour that Brian Lara overtook Australian Allan Border as the highest run-scorer in Test match cricket, despite the West Indies losing the series 3–0.\n\nIn 2009, another dispute erupted when many senior players decided not to take part over pay and contract issues. The WICB chose a second-string side to take part in a series against Bangladesh and the Champions Trophy. In 2012, ICC decided to get involved in order to resolve this long standing dispute.\n\nIn 2014, another dispute between WICB and West Indian Players Association (WIPA) led to the team's Indian tour being curtailed. The bone of contention was a protracted payment structure.\n\nIn 2015, Players has made themselves unavailable for tests, and with Jason Holder being thrust into the role of captaincy, and was met with much distrust between veteran bowlers and Holder and the administration and selectors. As a result, West Indies lost 21 matches by an innings since 1995-2015, when the team never lost more than 4 matches by over an innings combined from 1966-1995.\n\nWhen Twenty20 cricket began to be contested full force beginning with the 2007 World Twenty20 in South Africa, the West Indies began to develop and realize an advantage of possessing and developing Richards-style batsmen who could devastate bowling attacks with power. As well, many West Indian batsmen put an emphasis on power to prepare for Twenty20 play as it offered them their most lucrative contracts. Foremost among the hard hitters was Chris Gayle, who both hit the first T20 international century and became the first to hit two.\n\nAt the 2012 World Twenty20 in Sri Lanka, the Windies thrashed Australia in the semifinals and then beat the hosts by 32 runs to win their third ICC world championship and their first since Richards, Holding, Lloyd and Co. had won the 1979 World Cup. In the 2016 World Twenty20, they beat host India in the semifinals after a scintillating successful chase and were still cheered back at their hotel by local and traveling fans as they advanced to face England in the final, which they won by four wickets after Carlos Brathwaite hit four consecutive sixes off Ben Stokes with 19 runs required off the final over. In contrast to being 8th in the ICC Test Rankings and 9th in the ICC ODI Rankings, the Windies entered the match as 2nd in the ICC T20 rankings behind only India.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe West Indies generally play fast bowlers more so than spin bowlers. The West Indian team at any one time will generally consist of four fast bowlers (as opposed to a mixture of fast and spin bowlers). They have on occasion played spin bowlers however, they tend to be batting All-Rounders. Examples include Gus Logie, Carl Hooper, etc. One famous example of their \"four-pronged\" pace attack (as it has been dubbed) was during the 1980s when the attack generally included :\nOther pacemen surrounding that quartet included *Patrick Patterson (fast), *Colin Croft (fast) & *Sylvester Clarke (fast).\n\nTheir current attack includes:\n\nOther pacemen of this era include Andre Russell (fast medium), Miguel Cummins (fast medium), Fidel Edwards (fast), Krishmar Santokie (fast medium), Shannon Gabriel (fast), Lionel Baker (fast medium) and Jerome Taylor (fast).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3403176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3403176", "title": "Ice hockey goaltending equipment", "text": "Ice hockey goaltending equipment\n\nIn ice hockey, the goaltender wears specialized goaltending equipment to protect himself from the impact of the puck and to assist himself in making saves.\n\nMost modern goaltending equipment is made from hydrophobic synthetic leather and nylon on the outside and dense closed-cell foams and plastics inside. In the past, pads were often made out of leather and stuffed with horse hair.\n\nThe National Hockey League (NHL) specifies maximum dimensions of goaltending equipment to prevent goaltenders from having an unfair advantage. Many other professional and non-professional leagues adhere to equipment size regulations based on International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) rules.\n\nThe blocker consists of a glove with a rectangular board attached to the backhand side. The board is usually curved up at one end, which is designed to help control the deflection of the puck and will create a tougher angle on a shot if a goaltender uses the shaft-down technique. The blocker is worn on the hand that holds the stick, so a right-handed goaltender wears the blocker on the right hand, and a left-handed goaltender wears it on the left hand. This is called a \"full right goalie\" as the goaltender wears the catch glove in the right hand. A blocker is sometimes called a \"waffle\" in reference to older models, which were covered with real leather, but had holes cut in the leather to save weight, giving the blocker a waffle-like appearance. The placement of the palm on the back of the blocker varies though it has been traditionally placed in the middle. Newer models tend to place the palm further to the inside of the glove in order cover more of the net. Typically, the goaltender wears only one blocker. However, near the end of his career, retired goaltender Dan Blackburn played with two blockers after nerve damage rendered him incapable of closing his glove hand.\n\nThe \"Catcher\" or \"glove\" is the glove worn on the free hand. It is similar to a baseball mitt, but has additional padding to protect the lower forearm, wrist, palm, fingers and thumb, and has a deeper pocket. The first goaltender trapper, worn by Reid Miller in 1948, who played for the Wadena Wolverines and the North Stars, was a baseball first baseman's mitt. Common variations among trappers include the pocket angle. If the glove is too bulky, it does not allow for good stick handling. Trappers tend to be one of the most cared-for pieces of equipment for the goaltender. In order to prevent what is called a \"pancake pocket\", goaltenders often deepen the pocket by strapping objects inside the glove when not in use. The trapper's fit is extremely important as well as the goaltender's sense of the pocket and angles of the trapper. As a result, transitioning to a new glove may be difficult because of the significant break in-time. Some people suggest that the size of the trapper should be reduced from its present dimensions, which cannot be justified by the legitimate need to maximize protection.\n\nThe \"chest and arm protector\" or \"arm and body pad\" is designed to protect the chest, shoulders, arms, and collarbone area from the impact of pucks and is worn under the hockey jersey. The chest and arm protector has continually become more protective in recent years. In the early days of goaltending, it was much smaller and less protective, consisting mostly of thick felt. In effect, these pads were little better than what baseball catchers wear today. With the advent of better materials such as high density plastics and foams, chest protectors can be made to protect the body from injury. However, even with modern chest protectors, goaltenders still receive bruises and other minor injuries from pucks that hit them in the torso.\n\nA goaltender jock with a cup pocket, which protects the pelvic area, is more protective than a common jockstrap with protective cup, though it generally uses the same internal plastic cup, or maybe a bit larger. The jock has padding over the internal plastic cup and additional padding from the top of the cup to the waist. Many modern jocks use two cups, one in front of the other, in order to provide more protection. Instead of a jock, female goaltenders wear a pelvic protector known as a \"jill\".\n\nGoaltenders wear special leg pads to protect their legs and knees. Leg pads have evolved significantly over the years. The earliest leg pads were very similar to the cricket pads from which they were adopted. They were constructed of leather and stuffed with deer hair. In the 1930s, leg pads became more specialized, becoming wider and thicker. In the 1940s, an extra roll of material, called a \"skip-over roll\", was added to the outside edge of each pad face, extending from the lowest point of the pad covering the foot, called the boot break, to just below the knee rolls. In the 1950s, the skip-over roll was extended to the very top of the leg pad. In the 1980s, additional padding was added to protect the inside areas of the legs and knees. Toe foils, a plastic shield that was affixed to the bottom outside edge of the goaltender pad, began to be used but were later not allowed by equipment regulations. Leg pad design and construction remained static until the 1990s when synthetic leathers and high density foams began to be used in pad construction. Advantages of synthetic materials were lighter weight, lower cost, a quick break-in period, and leg pads that could be manufactured in the colors of the goaltender's team. Some leg pad manufacturers replaced the leather toe strap with a toe bridge to affix the front of the leg pad to the front of the goalie skate. Starting around 2000, the \"box\" style leg pads became popular as goaltending playing technique evolved to a blocking style versus the reacting style of the past. In the \"box\" style pad, the edge between the pad face and the pad inside edge is square, keeping the pad face more perpendicular with the ice surface and maximizing the blocking area when the goaltender is in the \"butterfly\" position. Currently, ice hockey regulations require that leg pads be no wider than and can be no longer than . The NHL has also brought in rules stating that each goaltender will be measured for height, and then the height of allowable pads will be calculated in proportion to the height of the goaltender.\n\nThe first modern goaltender mask was pioneered by professional goaltender Jacques Plante. Early masks were constructed from fiberglass and were molded to the shape of the wearer's face. These became less popular in the year 1969 in North America when a series of severe and career ending injuries struck down many NHL goaltenders using molded masks and prompted the Canadian Standards Association to outlaw molded masks in 1978. Assuredly, it was also Vladislav Tretiak's brilliant play during Canada-USSR 1972 Summit Series, that North American players first began to notice the superiority of the helmet/cage-type mask as opposed to the form-fitting fiberglass model, especially in terms of increased vision. Another significant advance in mask design came during the 1974-75 season, when goaltending great Tony Esposito, who had experienced puck and stick injuries to his eyes, fitted a steel cage over the eyeholes of his molded mask and crafted a fiberglass extension to protect the top of his head, thereby setting the groundwork for the next step in mask evolution, the modern goaltender mask, commonly referred to as the \"hybrid\" mask.\nToday, most goaltenders utilize hybrid masks made of fiberglass, kevlar, carbon fiber, and other composite materials. Modern masks have a large cutout in the eye and nose area covered by a steel or titanium cage. \nMany goaltenders are able to be identified by the custom artwork airbrushed on their masks. Some maintain the same theme throughout their career, changing the colors to match their team's colors. Examples include Curtis Joseph's Cujo, Ed Belfour's eagle, Félix Potvin's abstract cat design, Martin Brodeur's generic Devils mask, or Patrick Lalime's Marvin the Martian. Some goaltenders have more generic team-specific artwork, while others vary the artwork over the course of their careers.\n\nAn alternative to the mask, is the earlier mentioned \"bird-cage\" helmet and cage combo, which consists of a wire facemask attached to a standard hockey helmet. This became popular during the 1970s since a cage provides better sightlines than a molded fiberglass mask. Its popularity peaked during the 1980s, yet started to decline during the 1990s, as hockey equipment manufacturers discontinued the production of helmets and cages favored by goaltenders. By the turn of the 21st century, only a few professional goalies still wore a helmet/cage combo. Included in this small group were Chris Osgood of the Detroit Red Wings and Rick DiPietro of the New York Islanders in the NHL, Martin Prusek of Dinamo Riga in the KHL, and Marco Bührer of SC Bern in the Swiss National League A. Dominik Hašek also wore the helmet/cage combo for the duration of his career.\n\nThere were various helmet/cage combinations used by professionals. One was the Cooper SK600 helmet with the Cooper HM30 cage (worn by Ken Wregget and Billy Smith). Another was the Cooper SK2000 helmet with either the Cooper HM30 cage (previously used by Osgood and Dan Cloutier) or the Cooper HM50 cage (previously used by Hašek). Another one was the Jofa 280 Helmet with the 260.51 cage, which was last worn by Arturs Irbe. Don Beaupre wore a Cooper SK600 with a Jofa 260.51 cage. After Nike acquired Cooper and consolidated it as Nike Bauer, the SK2000 and HM50 were discontinued, while the HM30 was marketed as a field hockey mask (and subsequently discontinued in 2004). Jofa eventually phased out the 280 helmet and its respective cage, but now offer the RBK 3K helmet and 287 cage for the European market since consolidating with Reebok.\n\nThere are currently two models of goaltender masks which are both available to the North American market and based on the helmet/cage combination. The first model is the Hasek Pro Style 357, manufactured by the Warwick Mask Company, which follows the traditional helmet/cage style of masks. Current users of these helmets include Prusek and Bührer, while Hašek used this model from the 2001-02 season up to his retirement. The second is the Mage, manufactured by Sportmask. The difference between the Mage and other helmet/cage combinations is that the Mage's cage attaches to a helmet with a back plate as opposed to a helmet that's enclosed. Mage users include Florida Panthers goaltender Tim Thomas and Genève-Servette HC goaltender Tobias Stephan.\n\nGoaltenders' pants are similar in appearance to the pants that forwards and defensemen wear. Goaltender pants are heavily padded all down the front and sides, with a tailbone protector incorporated into the rear of the pant. They also have protective foams on the inner thigh for increased protection from shots. They also have attachments for the options of suspenders.\n\nGoal skates differ from regular hockey skates. The blade is longer, wider, and flatter to provide the goalie with more stability. It is made out of carbon steel rather than stainless steel. The blade holder, which is molded to the cowling, is shorter vertically so that the goaltender is lower to the ice. The boot does not have a tendon guard, which is the piece of a regular hockey skate that extends up the back of the ankle to protect the Achilles' tendon. Finally, the boot used to be inside a rigid cowling to protect the foot from direct impact. The current trend is to remove the cowling. Cowlings made the skates wider, especially at the bottom of the boot. When the modern goaltender went into a deep \"butterfly\" position, to see between the players in front of him, the cowl would lift the blade off the ice. The new goaltender skate is made out of newer materials, allowing the boot itself to provide the needed protection. The cowlings are being phased out of professional play.\n\nThe special hockey stick goaltenders use has a blade that is approximately wide. The lower of the shaft is widened to provide more blocking surface. This area is called the \"paddle\". Although traditional goaltender sticks were usually made completely of wood, most modern sticks are reinforced with graphite and fiberglass and the paddle and blade are injected with foam to make them lighter. Recently, manufacturers have begun to produce sticks made completely from composite materials, which are lighter. However, it may be argued that composite sticks are less durable than their wooden counterparts. While these sticks are widely sold, most professional goaltenders have in fact continued to use the foam core paddle-wood shaft type, even though it may be painted to look composite. The reason is both durability and the ability of the \"old\" style construction to absorb shock. Player sticks are made to transmit feeling (i.e. of the puck) to the player's hands when stickhandling. Goaltenders need the stick to absorb the shock of the puck impact when making a save.\n"}
{"id": "33286118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33286118", "title": "International Aikido Federation", "text": "International Aikido Federation\n\nInternational Aikido Federation (International Aikido Federation) is a world governing body for the sport of Aikido.\n\nThe International Aikido Federation was formed in 1976 to serve as a primary global aikido organisation. It is an umbrella organisation with member organisations from more than 40 nations (for example, the All-Japan Aikido Federation is one member). All members must be recognised by the Hombu, so the IAF exclusively represents the Aikikai school. The IAF is a nominally democratic organisation but special roles are given to the Doshu and a council of senior instructors, to safeguard the \"technical and moral\" integrity of aikido. The IAF currently admits only one member organisation per country and gives each such member equal vote (it was modeled on the UN; it does not necessarily give every Aikikai student equal representation).\n\nThe IAF demonstrates aikido at the World Games, and represents aikido to the globe. The IAF also organises International Aikido Congresses every four years, facilitating direct training between aikido students of different countries, sharing instruction by the world's most senior aikido instructors, and also providing a channel for official communication with the Hombu.\n\nThe IAF publishes a list of member nations and organisations.\n\nPeter Goldsbury is also a Professor of comparative mythology at Hiroshima and he has published a large body of aikido articles over his many years of practice. In early 2016, Peter Goldsbury announced his retirement and he officially stepped down following the elections that took place during the 12th IAF Congress held in September 2016 in the city of Takasaki (Gunma Prefecture, Japan) .\nKei Izawa previously served as the IAF's General Secretary and he has also the translated in English the biography of Morihei Ueshiba written by his son, Kisshomaru Ueshiba.\n\nEvery four years, the IAF holds a Congress in Japan where delegations from all member countries gather for a week of practice under the direction of numerous high ranked instructors, both Japanese and foreign. Along the seminar are held directing committee meetings as well as elections. The last congress took place in the city of Takasaki (Gunma) in September 2016.\n\nThe IAF was represented at both of SportAccord's World Combat Games that took place in China and Russia in 2010 and 2013, respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "2042007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2042007", "title": "Inyokern Airport", "text": "Inyokern Airport\n\nInyokern Airport is a public use airport located northwest of the central business district of Inyokern, in Kern County, California, United States. It is owned by the Indian Wells Valley Airport District and serves the Indian Wells Valley area. The airport is mostly used for general aviation and was previously served by a number of commuter and regional airlines over the years with passenger flights to Los Angeles (LAX).\n\nAs per Federal Aviation Administration records, the airport had 11,149 passenger boardings (enplanements) in calendar year 2008, 11,081 enplanements in 2009, and 11,109 in 2010. It is included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2011–2015, which categorized it as a \"primary commercial service\" airport (more than 10,000 enplanements per year).\n\nAs early as the mid 1950s, Inyokern had scheduled passenger air service operated by Southwest Airways with Douglas DC-3 aircraft twice a day on weekdays nonstop to Burbank Airport (BUR, now Bob Hope Airport) in the Los Angeles area. According to the March 11, 1954 Southwest Airways system timetable, this DC-3 service was \"operated under and subject to terms of U.S. Navy Contract\". Southwest Airways then changed its name to Pacific Air Lines which in 1960 was operating nonstop DC-3 service to Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). By 1964, Pacific was operating Martin 4-0-4 propliners from the airport to LAX. In 1968, Pacific Air Lines merged with Bonanza Air Lines and West Coast Airlines to form Air West which at this time was operating Fairchild F-27 turboprops from Inyokern to Los Angeles via a stop at Fox Field in Lancaster, CA. Air West then changed its name to Hughes Airwest which continued to serve the airport with F-27 propjet flights to LAX via Lancaster. In 1968, Cable Commuter Airlines was operating de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter turboprops to LAX in competition with Air West.\n\nFollowing the cessation of service by Hughes Airwest in the early 1970s, a number of commuter and regional airlines served the airport over the years with scheduled passenger flights to Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). Schedules in the Official Airline Guide (OAG) from 1974 through 2007 list flights operated at various times over the years by American Eagle (operated by Wings West Airlines), C&M Airlines, Cable Commuter Airlines, Delta Connection (operated by SkyWest Airlines), Desert Sun Airlines, Golden West Airlines, Indian Wells Airlines, Mojave Airlines, and United Express (initially operated by Mesa Airlines and later by SkyWest Airlines). These OAGs also list the various turboprop aircraft types that were operated by most of the above airlines into the airport including the Beechcraft C99 (Desert Sun and Mojave Airlines), the Beechcraft 1900C (Mesa Airlines), the British Aerospace BAe Jetstream 31 (Wings West), the de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter (Cable Commuter Airlines and Golden West), the Embraer EMB-120 Brasilia (SkyWest) and the Fairchild Swearingen Metroliner (SkyWest and Wings West). C&M Airlines and Indian Wells Airlines operated small Cessna prop aircraft. Scheduled passenger airline service ended following the cessation of United Express flights operated by SkyWest in November 2013.\n\nOn July 7, 2017, airport officials awarded a contract to Boutique Air to begin daily flights to Los Angeles International Airport starting August 8, 2017. On October 12, 2017, the Indian Wells Valley Airport District board of directors voted to terminate its contract with Boutique Air following a 60-day notice.\n\nThe Inyokern Airport Dragstrip opened in 1954, and was the second oldest continuously operating dragstrip in the United States, behind Thornhill Dragstrip in Kenton, KY which opened in 1953. The drag strip closed during the 2005 season due to new Federal Aviation Administration regulations.\n\nBeginning in the 1950s, regular glider records were set out of Inyokern in various sources of lift. Due to its location on the lee side of the Sierra Nevada mountain range, it is an excellent location for altitude records in wave conditions or distance and speed records in thermal lift. It is a challenging location, as the winds change frequently, but with three long runways pilots generally have a variety of options for launch and landing. Many well known pilots have flown gliders out of Inyokern, including Neil Armstrong, Paul Bikle, and Steve Fossett.\n\nPresently Inyokern Airport is the home to Sierra Soaring Club, which operates a Cessna 182 for towing gliders, a Blanik L-23 for rides and instruction, and a Schweizer 1-35 and Standard Cirrus for wave flights and cross country soaring.\n\nIn the wake of the drag strip's closing, the airport has been actively promoting its use for film shoots, with the Ridgecrest Regional Film Commission marketing its (Runway 28) as \"the region's #1 filming location\". A notable example of this new use is a television advertisement titled \"Gravity\", for the Lexus IS. The airdrop \"target\" featured in the commercial, where the falling automobile hits the ground, was painted on the old drag strip; however, many of the vehicle shots preceding the car drop actually feature the Lexus rolling down runway 20. Other notable automotive television ads shot here include most spots from Saab's \"Born from Jets\" campaign, as well as spots for Volkswagen, Volvo, Cadillac, Nissan, Mazda, Toyota, Ford, and Chevrolet, just to name a few.\n\nInyokern Airport covers an area of at an elevation of above mean sea level. It has three asphalt paved runways: 15/33 is , 2/20 is , and 10/28 is 4,150 by 75 feet (1,265 x 23 m).\n\nFor the 12-month period ending December 31, 2010, the airport had 28,573 aircraft operations, an average of 78 per day: 80% general aviation, 10% military, 6% air taxi, and 5% scheduled commercial. At that time there were 117 aircraft based at this airport: 84% single-engine, 9% multi-engine, 5% glider, and 3% ultralight.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16724918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16724918", "title": "Juventus Manica", "text": "Juventus Manica\n\nJuventus Manica, usually known simply as Juventus Manica, is a traditional football (soccer) club based in Manico, Mozambique.\n\nThe club plays their home matches at Gaparinu des Manica, which has a maximum capacity of 10,000 people.\n"}
{"id": "51429264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51429264", "title": "Kouekong Stadium", "text": "Kouekong Stadium\n\nBafoussam omnisports Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Kouekong, a suburb of Bafoussam, Cameroon. It is used mostly for football matches and it also has athletics facilities. The stadium has seats for 20,000 people. It was built in 2015 and inaugurated on April 30, 2016.\nIt will also host some matches during the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations.\n"}
{"id": "51580074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51580074", "title": "Last Man Standing (motorcycle race)", "text": "Last Man Standing (motorcycle race)\n\nLast Man Standing is a motorcycle race held annually in Bulcher, Texas, US. The race consists of 300 of the world’s top enduro riders from around the world and they all converge on Bulcher for the Red Bull’s Last Man Standing Enduro event. The race takes place on the Red River Motorcycle Trails course straddling the Texas/Oklahoma border.\n\nLocated northwest of Dallas/Fort Worth along the Texas-Oklahoma border, the Red River Motorcycle Trails have some of the most challenging terrain in North America for racing Enduro Motorcycles. The event is a carved out 40-mile loop that features steep rocky climbs, descents, boulders the size of cars and forests with trees that one can barely walk through. The race also presents its riders with the 100 mph straight-aways of hard packed, loamy dirt and sand.\n\nThe race is an \"every man for himself never before seen in off-road racing,\" according to Josh Whitaker with KTM North America, who represents the leading manufacturer of off-road motorcycles. \" Last Man Standing Enduro Event combines gut-wrenching terrain with favorite elements from Enduro, Cross Country and Desert racing techniques. Red Bull sponsors the Last Man Standing event which consists of four elimination stages of one lap each and starts by bunching together approximately 300 invited riders on the 40-mile circuit.\n\nThe first two 40-mile laps happen during the day and the second two laps at night. The top 50 percent of the riders then move on until only 25 riders are left for the fourth and final stage. The rider who wins the event is crowned \"Last Man Standing\" claiming the majority share of prize money made up of entry fees.\n\nThe Course starts with 200 riders, side-by-side. Each line-up in a valley with no lines and no trails. What awaits the riders is all terrain. Across the valley, a signal fire is lit, which is when the riders take off.\n\nThe trails have the tightest, fastest, steepest, and most technical terrain. The ever-changing dirt brings the red clay of the Southeast and the hard packed light colored sand mix of the West into a cloud storm of riders and dust. At night, only the best at the top of their game will advance to the night laps and face a reversed direction of the race.\n\nThe Finish of the race is a test of skill, endurance, and mental toughness. The race is a race to survive. Because in the end, there is only one who will emerge as the best as Last Man Standing\n"}
{"id": "21423343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21423343", "title": "Libyan Division I Basketball League 2008–09", "text": "Libyan Division I Basketball League 2008–09\n\nThe 2008–09 season of the Libyan Division I Basketball League.\n\n"}
{"id": "59018501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59018501", "title": "Magyar Kupa (men's volleyball)", "text": "Magyar Kupa (men's volleyball)\n\nThe Magyar Kupa (), is a national cup for professional men's volleyball in Hungary, organized by the Hungarian Volleyball Federation since the 1951 season. Between 1957-58 and 1961-62, the event was not held three consecutive seasons.\n\nMost successful team of the Hungarian Men's Volleyball Cup are Kaposvár Volley with eighteen titles.\n\nIn 1954, 1955 and 1957, the cup was held on a grand scale. In 1983 they played two series (in March and December). In 1967 and 1968 the finals were played only in the following year.\nPrevious cup winners are: \n\nThe performance of various clubs is shown in the following table: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "34146779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34146779", "title": "Mizuno Morelia", "text": "Mizuno Morelia\n\nThe Morelia range of football boot, the first of which was released in 1985, is designed and produced by Mizuno of Osaka, Japan. The boot has gone through slight changes since its original release. The Morelia has a quilted kangaroo leather upper.\n\nThe Morelia II exists in four sole plates ; MD - (moulded), SI - (screw-in), TM - (artificial turf/hard ground) and AS - (astroturf).\n\nPlayers to have worn the boot include:\n\nRugby union players to have worn the boot include:\n\n"}
{"id": "29152959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29152959", "title": "National Cycle Collection", "text": "National Cycle Collection\n\nThe National Cycle Collection of Wales is a collection of bicycles through the ages established in 1997, and located in Llandrindod Wells, Wales, United Kingdom. It contains around 250 bicycles from 1818 to 2005, including a large collection of penny farthings and solid tyred safety bicycles, as well as cycling books, accessories and paraphernalia.\n\nThe building and site was known as The Automobile Palace, a project of bicycle shop owner Tom Norton who bought the site in 1906 for his expanding business. The building was initially completed in 1911 in an Art Deco style and then tripled in size, to the same standard, in 1919. It has received a Grade II* heritage listing, being \"an exceptionally early grid-pattern steel-framed building surviving largely unaltered\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4120029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4120029", "title": "Nigeria at the 1972 Summer Olympics", "text": "Nigeria at the 1972 Summer Olympics\n\nNigeria competed at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany.\n\n\nMen's 100 metres\n\nMen's 800 metres\n\nMen's 1500 metres\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Relay\n\nWomen's 4 × 100 m Relay\n\nWomen's Long Jump\n\nWomen's Pentathlon\n\nMen's Heavyweight (+ 81 kg)\n\n"}
{"id": "3208917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3208917", "title": "Palestine at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Palestine at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nAthletes from the Palestinian territories, represented by the Palestine Olympic Committee and competing as Palestine, participated in the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7493408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7493408", "title": "Peterson Gym", "text": "Peterson Gym\n\nPeterson Gym is a 3,668 seat multi-purpose arena in San Diego, California. It opened in 1961. It was home to the San Diego State University Aztecs basketball teams until Cox Arena (now known as the Viejas Arena) opened in 1997. Peterson Gym is currently the home of SDSU's varsity women's volleyball team.\n\nIn 1972–73, Peterson Gym was home of the American Basketball Association expansion San Diego Conquistadors. The Conquistadors were coached by Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame inductee and Boston Celtics great K.C. Jones. The team finished with a 30–54 record.\nInside the arena, there are classrooms for lectures.\n\n"}
{"id": "5921341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5921341", "title": "Pitch (sports field)", "text": "Pitch (sports field)\n\nA pitch or a sports ground is an outdoor playing area for various sports. The term \"pitch\" is most commonly used in British English, while the comparable term in American and Canadian English is playing field or sports field.\n\nIn most sports the official term is field of play, although this is not regularly used by those outside refereeing/umpiring circles. The field of play generally includes out-of-bounds areas that a player is likely to enter while playing a match, such as the area beyond the touchlines in association football and rugby or the sidelines in American and Canadian football, or the \"foul territory\" in baseball.\n\nThe surface of a pitch is most commonly composed of sod (grass), but may also be artificial turf, sand, clay, gravel, concrete, or other materials. A playing field on ice may be referred to as a \"rink\", for example an ice hockey rink, although \"rink\" may also refer to the entire building or, in the sport of curling, to either the building or a particular team.\n\nIn the sport of cricket, the cricket pitch refers not to the entire field of play, but to the section of the field on which batting and bowling take place in the centre of the field. The pitch is prepared differently from the rest of the field, to provide a harder surface for bowling.\n\nA pitch is often a regulation space, as in an association football pitch.\n\nThe term level playing field is also used metaphorically to mean fairness in non-sporting human activities such as business where there are notional winners and losers.\n\nGame Court is one of the names for a multi-sport athletic space, typically constructed outdoors, where such games as basketball, volleyball, paddle tennis and other racquet sports, and up to a dozen more games and activities can be played. They are usually smaller than a regulation tennis (120' x 60')or basketball (84'x50')court, although there is no set dimensions or size for a game court. The game-court concept was popularized by Sport Court in the 1970s, and some generic references are made to game courts as 'sport courts', although that is a trademark of Connor Sport Court International, LLC. Game courts are often found in residential backyards, giving families and children opportunities for healthy recreation close to home. \n\nGame courts are usually constructed using a rectangular sub-base made from concrete or asphalt, then covered with an open-grid modular polypropylene (or similar) sports surface to improve safety. Most feature athletic equipment such as basketball goals, net systems for racquet sports, volleyball and badminton, lights for nighttime play, fencing or ball containment netting, hockey/soccer goals, lines or markings for various sports, and practice or training components can also be incorporated into the design.\n\nThe surface of a game court--as opposed to simply playing on concrete or asphalt--is designed for safe play and to reduce injury. Many people have started to use suspended athletic courts to cover old athletic courts like tennis courts and basketball courts. The surface should provide appropriate traction for various types of sports and activities, as well as shock or force reduction to minimize overuse and stress injuries. \nGame courts are typically custom-designed to the interests of the family or organization, and are versatile in enabling a wide variety of sports to be played in a relatively small space. Some activities played on a game court are enjoyable modifications of other sports (such as short-court tennis) that allow for similar skills to be developed as the 'regulation' game, but on a reduced-scale court size. A typical game court of 50'x30' might include a basketball key and 3-point line arranged around a hoop, overlaid by short-court tennis or pickleball lines (which can also be used for volleyball or badminton) along the longer dimension. \n\nGame courts for private use will frequently be built with a high fence surrounding the surface to allow for containment of the ball used in play. Any of several materials have been used in construction including chain link fencing of fabric mesh.\n\n"}
{"id": "48726714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48726714", "title": "Rajinder Singh Institute Ground", "text": "Rajinder Singh Institute Ground\n\nRajinder Singh Institute Ground is a multi purpose stadium in Bangalore, Karnataka. The ground is mainly used for organizing matches of football, cricket and other sports. The stadium has hosted nine Ranji Trophy matches from 1964 when Karnataka cricket team played against Kerala cricket team until 2008.\n\nThe stadium has hosted six List A matches in 1996 when Karnataka cricket team played against Kerala cricket team until 2012 but since then the stadium has hosted non-first-class matches.\n\n"}
{"id": "13787534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13787534", "title": "Royal Institute Dictionary", "text": "Royal Institute Dictionary\n\nThe Royal Institute Dictionary (RID; , ) is the official and prescriptive dictionary of Thai language, published by the Royal Society of Thailand.\n\nThe Royal Society of Thailand has published four fully revised editions of the dictionary, and many intermittent reprintings with minor revisions. Each of the major revisions is associated with a significant year in Thai history, although in the case of the 1999 and 2011 editions, the actual publication date is a later year.\n\nThe dictionary is the only prescriptive and official dictionary of Thai words. It has also frequently been used by the courts in interpreting the general meanings of the words in dispute, although the RIT has issued a statement that the dictionary is not intended to produce legal effect concerning cases.\n\nOne of the most notable legal cases is the case of a transgender who applied for judicial permission to change his title from \"Mister\" to \"Miss\" in 1986, as the law at that time only allowed a female to use the latter title. The applicant argued that he could be considered a female, since he had undergone gender reassignment, having his sexual organ removed and having breasts augmented, etc. The Supreme Court of Justice ruled that, according to the \"RID 1982\", a female is \"a person that can be pregnant\", and denied his application.\n\nAnother notable case is that of Samak Sundaravej, then prime minister who was accused of conflict of interest in 2008. The Election Commission and the Senate jointly complained before the Constitutional Court that Samak worked for a private commercial business while in office. The \"Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, Buddhist Era 2550 (2007)\", prohibits a public officer from being an employee of any person, especially a commercial business. Samak argued that he had not been paid for hosting two cookery shows in question, \"Tasting and Grumbling\" and \"All Set at 6 am\", and could not be regarded as an employee under the Civil and Commercial Code or the law on labour. The court decided that the term \"employee\" in the constitution conveys a general meaning. As the \"RID 1999\" defines an \"employee\" as \"a person who agrees to work for another person, irrespective of how he is called\", the court found Samak guilty and terminated his ministership, removing him from office in consequence.\n\nThe methodology of the Dictionary Revision Commission (DRC) of the RIT has remained virtually unchanged for more than 70 years. The \"RID\" is produced by the DRC which is a relatively small group of experienced Thai scholars, convening at least once per week and working through the previous edition of the dictionary alphabetically, reviewing it entry by entry and sense by sense, suggesting new senses and entries as the work proceeds. Once the end of the alphabet is reached, a new edition of the \"RID\" is prepared for publication.\n\nThe 1950 edition of the \"RID\" was first published in 1950. Although it is the first dictionary published by the RIT, it is a revision of an earlier dictionary published by the Thai government in 1927.\n\nWork commenced on what would become \"RID 1950\" in 1932, when the duty of producing the official governmental dictionary still belonged to the Ministry of Education, then known as the Department of Education (กรมธรรมการ). This task was transferred to the RIT in 1934, although the actual commission carried on as before, both in membership and methodology. From start to finish, the first meeting of the DRC was held on 5 October 1932, and the commission met for the final time before publication on March 8, 1950, having convened a total of 1,299 meetings over the course of over seventeen years. Meetings were held only once weekly until 1942, after which the commission met two days per week. In 1949, as the dictionary neared completion, the commission met three times per week. The original commission consisted of seven members in 1932, and at publication in 1950 had fifteen members. Two of the original seven members, as well as one later member, died before the work of revision was completed.\n\nThe \"RID 1950\" remained the standard dictionary of Thai for more than 30 years, with 20 printings totalling 187,000 copies.\n\nThe 1982 edition of the \"RID\" was first published in 1982, in commemoration of the 200th anniversary of the establishment of Bangkok as the capital of Thailand by King Rama I.\n\nIn 1976, prime minister Tanin Kraivixien ordered a revision of \"RID 1950\", as part of an increased effort to promote knowledge of the standard language among Thai citizens. His charge included the task of updating the dictionary to include new words that had become standard, particularly terms coined by the RIT that had gained widespread use, as well as to include in this revised dictionary those words which were overlooked or otherwise omitted in the previous edition. The motion to have the RIT finally produce an \"unabridged dictionary\" was presented by Tanin at the cabinet meeting of 28 December 1976 and was accepted. Work was officially ordered the following day, with the charge to complete the new dictionary within one year.\n\nAt the end of the first year, the DRC requested an extension of another year, citing great interest from both other government bodies as well as the general public, so as to be able to process the many requests and suggestions received. After the second year had passed, a seven-month extension was requested and granted, followed by a three-month request, after which the revision was completed. In total, the commission met 280 times, first on 22 February 1977, and finally on 27 December 1979.\n\nThe \"RID 1982\" remained the standard dictionary of Thai for more than 20 years, with six printings totalling 280,000 copies.\n\nIn 1996, in collaboration with National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), the \"RID 1982\" was also produced in a limited edition CD-ROM version to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the reign of King Bhumibol Adulyadej. Twelve-thousand discs were made, of which 8,000 were distributed to educational institutions throughout the country, and the remainder were given away to interested persons upon request.\n\nThe sixth and final printing of 60,000 copies in 1996 was expected to be sufficient until the completion of \"RID 1999\", but as it proved not to be, and with the supply of the CD-ROM edition similarly exhausted, the RIT decided to meet the demand by creating an internet edition of the \"RID 1982\". It was online from 1996 until 2007, when it was supplanted by an online version of \"RID 1999\".\n\nThe 1999 edition of the \"RID\" was first published in 2003. It is called the 1999 edition to commemorate the sixth cycle (72nd) birthday anniversary of King Bhumibol Adulyadej in that year.\n\nThe \"RID 1999\" had been the standard dictionary of Thai language until 2012. It had been printed just once in a massive run of 200,000 copies.\n\nIn mid-2007, the RIT made the \"RID 1999\" available online.\n\nOn 5 April 5, 2012, RIT secretary general Kanokwalee Chuchaiya announced that the RIT had completed the revision of the 1999 edition, and that Yingluck Shinawatra's cabinet had endorsed budgets for the publication of the new edition in a massive run of 200,000 copies. The printing of the first 100,000 copies was completed at the end of 2012 and these copies were distributed to government agencies and educational institutions only. The other 100,000 copies were published for sales.\n\nApart from the revised words, this new edition contains hundreds of new words having been in regular use following the publication of the previous edition, including legal terms, political terms, names of plants, animals, sweets, colloquialisms, and slang.\n\nAlthough the edition was actually released in 2012, it is called the 2011 edition to commemorate King Bhumibol Adulyadej's seventh cycle (84th) birthday anniversary in 2011. On 27 May 2013, Yingluck Shinawatra announced repealing the 1999 edition and replacing it with the 2011 edition. The announcement was published in the \"Government Gazette\" on 13 July 2013.\n\nSince 24 October 2014, an online version of the 2011 edition has been made available for testing.\n\n"}
{"id": "20917659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20917659", "title": "Samba Gold", "text": "Samba Gold\n\nThe \"Samba Gold\" (Samba d'Or) is a football award given to the best Brazilian footballer in Europe, as awarded by the Sambafoot Company. The inaugural award was made in 2008. The Samba Gold is determined by three voter panels: journalists, fellow footballers and votes from Internet users.\n\n"}
{"id": "4427531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4427531", "title": "Shenandoah 100", "text": "Shenandoah 100\n\nThe Shenandoah 100 is an ultra-endurance 100 mile (162 km) mountain bike race held in central Western Virginia near Stokesville. The race is normally held on the Sunday during Labor Day weekend. The race has been run continuously since 1998. \n\nThe organizer, Shenandoah Mountain Touring based in Harrisonburg, VA also runs the Wilderness 101 in Central Pennsylvania along with numerous other cycling races, events and tours. The SM100 is part of a Nationwide series of endurance races the National Ultra Endurance Series since 2006.\nThe SM100 course starts and finishes in Stokesville Campground near the Stokesville Observatory. The majority of the course is in George Washington National Forest and uses part of the Wild Oak Trail. The course is primarily in Virginia but a small section crosses into West Virginia. The course covers the USGS Topo Maps of Stokesville, Palo Alto, Reddish Knob and West Augusta. As the name implies, the course is 100 miles long and has nearly 12,500 feet of vertical climbing.\nLarry Camp, of Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, is the only rider to have completed the first 20 editions of the event, finishing again in 2018 in 13:43 (unofficial). Jeremiah Bishop holds the record for fastest male finisher at 6:49 in 2015 and Andrea Dvorak holds the record for fastest female finisher at 8:09 in 2017. The longest finisher recorded was Neil Curtis in 1999 taking 18:07 to finish. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19326709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19326709", "title": "Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex", "text": "Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex\n\nThe Shree Chhatrapati Shivaji Sports Complex, Balewadi, Mahalunge, Pune is an Indian sports complex, which includes the Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex Stadium. The complex is situated in Balewadi, Mahalunge Pune, about 14–15 km from Pune downtown and 4–5 km from Hinjawadi, Pune. This complex was the venue for the 2008 Commonwealth Youth Games.\n\nThis complex was built in 1994 for the National Games 1994, which were hosted by Pune. The 2008 Commonwealth Youth Games were hosted here. In 2008 the World Junior Table Tennis Circuit was successfully held here. The 2009 FIVB Men's Junior World Championship was held here. It was won by Brazil. The city is also the host of FIBA Asia Under-16 Championship for Women 2009.\n\n\nBeginning in fall 2012, the Athletics Stadium will undergo a retrofitting and become the host stadium for the Elite Football League of India and the home arena for the Pune Marathas.\n\n\nThe 2011 Rollball World Cup was held in this games village. This was the first world cup of Roll Ball. Denmark was the winner of this tournament. Also the 3rd Roll Ball World Cup in 2015 was organized here.\n\n\nThe 2009 FIVB Men's Junior World Championship was held on 31 July 2009 to 9 August 2009. Host India ended 4th in this tournament. This Tournament was conducted in Badminton Hall and Boxing Arena. Brazil won this championship.\n\nThe Athletics stadium has a seating capacity of roughly 11,000 people at a time, Flood lights and an 8 lane track.\n\nThe athletics stadium also hosts the I-League matches for Pune F.C.. It has also hosted matches for the India national football team. India played against Vietnam in a friendly match over here. India played their first match in the 2012 London Olympic Qualifiers (first round) against Myanmar. India won it by a score 2-1. India drew with Qatar in the 2012 London Olympic Qualifier (Second round) at the stadium by a score 1-1. Then during the 2011 Indian Federation Cup the Balewadi Sports Complex co-hosted with the Salt Lake Stadium the Federation Cup group-stages. The Federation Cup is the second most important football competition in India. This stadium will also be the host for upcoming Indian Super League for FC Pune City bought by Bollywood actor Hritik Roshan.\n\nThis Aquatics centre contains two 50 x 25m swimming pools, with a seating capacity of 3500 people. This has changing room for players. Seating and lounges are for VIPs. For public usage the pool timings are 6:00 AM – 9:00AM and 3:00 PM – 6:00 PM from Monday to Saturday.\n\nThe Badminton hall 6 competition courts and 4 warm-up courts, and has a seating capacity of 3800 people at a time. This hall is air condition and has wooden floor. It has changing room for players and sitting & lounges for VIPs. This venue is the home ground of Pune Pistons a franchise in Indian Badminton League (IBL). So far 3 IBL matches have been played on this venue.\n\nThe first edition of FIBA Asia Under-16 Championship for Women was played on this stadium from 30 November 2009 to 6 December 2009. Host India finished on fifth position.\n\nIt has been a host for the UBA Pro Basketball League, India's prime professional basketball division.\n\nThe Boxing arena has 3 rings, and 5 warm-up rings, with a seating capacity of 3500 peoples. This hall is air conditioned and has changing rooms for players. This arena is the host of 2011 World Series Boxing.\n\nThe complex has 15 shooting ranges, with a seating capacity of 1500. The ranges are constructed according to ISSF rules world championship. Ranges: 50 m,25 m and 10 m are available \n\n\nThe hall, with a seating capacity of 1500 people, successfully held World Junior Table Tennis Circuit in September 2008. This has 4 competition tables and 4 warm up tables. This hall is air conditioned and has changing rooms for players. Seating and lounges are for VIPs.\n\nThe Tennis courts feature one central court and four competition courts, with six warm-up courts. Centre court has a seating capacity of 4200 people.\n\nThis hall seats 3000 people. It hosted the 2009 commonwealth bench press championships. The most famous athlete to compete was Britain's strongest man Paddy the Pac man Jumelle. The hall is air conditioned and has one competition podium and 10 warm-up platforms. Seating and lounges are provided for VIPs. There is also a changing room for competitors.\n\nThe Wrestling Hall, which is used by Kabaddi club Puneri Paltan, has four rings, and six warm-up rings with a seating capacity of 4,400 people. This has seating and lounges for VIPs. This also has change room for players. This is an air conditioned hall.\n\nThe velodrome is outdoor and the surface is made of concrete. While it was a prime venue for the 3rd Nationals Games in the year 1993-94 it has never been a place for any major events thereafter, and was left unused. In 2014 it was announced that with a Rs 10 crore maintenance grant from the governments for the entire complex, the facelift of the velodrome had top priority. At that time the velodrome was in dilapidated state.\n\nThis is a non sporting venue at the sports city with 400 rooms, ranging between three and five star.\n\nThe other buildings are as follows:\ngym room, yoga room\n\n\nThis centre has equipment to develop physical and physiological attributes. This hall is air condition hall and has provision for Yoga and Meditation. This has provision for sauna and chill water bath for recovery.\n\nThis centre has sauna and chill water bath. This has seven departments:\n\n\n\nSeveral scenes for the 2016 film Dangal were filmed at this sports complex in December 2015. \nThe film is about two Indian daughters who won the gold and silver medal in wrestling at the 2010 Commonwealth Games.\n"}
{"id": "42664809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42664809", "title": "Sport Clube da Catumbela", "text": "Sport Clube da Catumbela\n\nSport Clube da Catumbela is an Angolan football club based in Catumbela in western Angola, south of Luanda.\n\nIn 1945 the team has won the Girabola.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12817206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12817206", "title": "Stade Boy Konen", "text": "Stade Boy Konen\n\nStade Boy Konen is a sports venue in the Cessange quarter of Luxembourg City, in southern Luxembourg. It is located next to the Croix de Cessange, just outside the A6. Amongst other uses, it is used for rugby union, and is the home stadium of both the dominant Rugby Club Luxembourg and the Luxembourg national team.\n\nIt is named after René 'Boy' Konen, the Minister for Public Works under Pierre Werner and a member of Luxembourg City's communal council.\n"}
{"id": "3391891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3391891", "title": "Stadio Nazionale PNF", "text": "Stadio Nazionale PNF\n\nThe Stadio Nazionale del PNF (National Stadium of the National Fascist Party) was a multi-purpose stadium in Rome, Italy. It hosted three of the 17 matches of the 1934 FIFA World Cup, including the final between hosts Italy and Czechoslovakia on 10 June 1934.\n\nThe Stadio Nazionale was constructed in 1911, and was renovated in 1928 for the Italy - Hungary international match.\n\nThe stadium closed in 1953 and was replaced by the Stadio Flaminio in 1957.\n"}
{"id": "40071370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40071370", "title": "Taipei City Dragons F.C.", "text": "Taipei City Dragons F.C.\n\nTaipei City Dragons FC, also known as TC Dragons, is a football club from Chinese Taipei, also called Taiwan or Republic of China. It is one of the main association football clubs in Chinese Taipei. 2,000 capacity Tainan Football Field is their home stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "40195240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40195240", "title": "Tajikistan at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "Tajikistan at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics\n\nTajikistan competed at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics in Moscow, Russia, from 10–18 August 2013.\nA team of 2 athletes was announced to represent the country in the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "5614549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5614549", "title": "Wallflip", "text": "Wallflip\n\nA wallflip is a stunt involving a backflip from a wall. This is commonly used in urban acrobatics displays. A wallflip involves running up to a wall (or other vertical or near-vertical surface) and placing your foot on this surface. You must then push off with enough force to complete a three-quarter rotation and land back on your feet.\n\nTwo-Step Wallflip\n\nThis is identical to the wallflip. However to perform it one will take an extra step up the wall for a total of two steps. This trick can be done with either foot being used first; however for beginners, the first step will consist of the less dominant foot so when the second step is taken the user will have more force to push off and complete the flip.\n\nThree-Step Wallflip\n\nAlso identical to the wallflip, however consisting of three steps taken up the wall instead of one. Once again this can be performed using any combination of foot placement; however for beginners the more dominant leg will take the first step, followed by the less dominant. This will then allow the dominant leg to take the third and final step, ensuring the completion of the flip.\n\nFour-Step Wallflip\n\nJust as the name implies, this is a wallflip with four steps. This trick is very uncommon and difficult. It is rarely done outside of the gym although a Four-Step Wallflip on a \"real\" urban wall is not unheard of. However, less than a dozen tricksters have ever landed it outside of the gym.\n\nWallflip Twist\n\nThis stunt starts out similar to the wallflip in the effect that the performer runs up to a vertical surface and places their foot on this surface. It differs, however, because after one places their foot on the vertical surface they must twist their upper body to do a half rotation while also pushing off to do the flip. This will result in the user landing facing away from the wall instead of towards the wall.\n\nWall to wall flip\n\nThe wall to wall flip uses more than one surface when being performed. This trick will start by running up to one surface then placing either foot on this surface. The user will then jump or run to the second surface (commonly used on a 90 degree angle corner in which case the first surface is one wall and the second surface is the intersecting wall) and push with their opposite foot to complete the rotation. This trick can be done with any combination of steps or directions.\n\nWallflip Full Twist\n\nThis stunt starts out like a wallflip by the performer running to a wall and placing their foot on the wall. Then it changes and requires the performer to push up and still do a back somersault but also do a 360 degree rotation during the backwards rotation. Once both rotations are complete, the performer lands facing the wall again.\n\nThe wallflip is an easier and simple trick because it consists of only a three quarter rotation instead of a full rotation. The extra quarter is subtracted because the trick starts from the vertical surface used. To perform this trick correctly one must push both away from the wall and upwards from the wall. The force pushing away from the wall is so that the user does not come into contact with the surface during the trick, such as hitting their head on the surface while they are rotating. The upwards force gives the trick height and will also force rotation to ensure a proper landing.\n\nTo overcome the fear of not making the full rotation, a spotter or two spotters may be used. They should stand to the side of the user, and when the user is horizontal with their back facing the floor, the spotters may give them extra rotation and height by pushing their back upwards (this is similar to the way in which spotters can be used when learning a backtuck).\n\n"}
{"id": "27867057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27867057", "title": "Zob Ahan Cultural and Sport Club", "text": "Zob Ahan Cultural and Sport Club\n\nZob Ahan Cultural and Sport Club is an Iranian multisport club based in Isfahan, Iran. The club was founded in 1969. It is sponsored by the \"Isfahan Steel Company\", which also goes by the name Zob Ahan.\n\nZob Ahan club is most known for its football and basketball teams.\n\nZob Ahan Football Club is an Iranian football team competing in the Iran Pro League. The team plays at Fooladshahr Stadium in Fooladshahr. Since the inception of the new Iran Pro League in 2001, Zob Ahan has never been relegated to the Azadegan League. Zob Ahan have won the Hazfi Cup on two occasions. In 2010 Zob Ahan made it to the 2010 AFC Champions League Final against Seongnam FC, they lost 3-1.\n\nZob Ahan Basketball Club is an Iranian professional basketball club located in Isfahan, Iran. They are one of the most successful clubs in the history of the Iranian Basketball Super League winning the championship nine times.\n\nZob Ahan is not active anymore in men's volleyball. Zob Ahan women's volleyball team is the current Iranian league champion.\n\n\n\n"}
