{"id": "1701937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1701937", "title": "Advocates Library", "text": "Advocates Library\n\nThe Advocates Library, founded in 1682, is the law library of the Faculty of Advocates, in Edinburgh. It served as the national deposit library of Scotland until 1925, at which time through an Act of Parliament the National Library of Scotland was created. All the non-legal collections were given to the National Library. Today, it alone of the Scottish libraries still holds the privilege of receiving a copy of every law book entered at Stationers' Hall. \n\nThe library forms part of the complex that includes Parliament House, located on the Royal Mile.\n\nThe Library was formally opened in 1689. It was an initiative of George Mackenzie.\n\nThe present library building was designed by William Henry Playfair in 1830, and is a category A listed building.\n\nLibrarian Samuel Halkett began an ambitious catalogue, based on the rules of John Winter Jones for the British Museum catalogue of 1839, but with extensive biographical information on authors. It was published in six volumes, from 1858 to 1878. Halkett's successor, Thomas Hill Jamieson, met a fire that damaged some thousands of books on 9 March 1875.\n\nBy 1923 the library held around 725,000 books and pamphlets. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56064729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56064729", "title": "Agriculture and Rural Development Day", "text": "Agriculture and Rural Development Day\n\nBetween 2009 and 2012, Agriculture and Rural Development Day (ARDD) was an annual event co-organized by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Global Forum on Agricultural Research (GFAR), International Federation of Agricultural Producers (IFAP), and International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI).\n\nThe first event took place as a side event at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP15) in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\nThe second event took place as a side event at the 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP15) in Cancún, Mexico.\n\nThe third event took place as a side event at the 2011 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP15) in Durban, South Africa.\n\nThe fourth event took place at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (UNCSD)—also called Rio 2012, Rio+20, or the Earth Summit 2012—in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It was co-hosted by the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (Embrapa) and the CGIAR.\n\nThe fifth and final ARDD, called Agriculture, Landscapes, and Livelihoods Day 5(ALL-5), took place alongside Forest Day on the sidelines of the 2012 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP18) in Doha, Qatar.\n\nIn 2013, this event merged with Forest Day to become the Global Landscapes Forum (GLF).\n"}
{"id": "2042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2042", "title": "Alexander Grothendieck", "text": "Alexander Grothendieck\n\nAlexander Grothendieck (; ; ; 28 March 1928 – 13 November 2014) was a stateless mathematician (naturalized French in 1971) who became the leading figure in the creation of modern algebraic geometry. His research extended the scope of the field and added elements of commutative algebra, homological algebra, sheaf theory and category theory to its foundations, while his so-called \"relative\" perspective led to revolutionary advances in many areas of pure mathematics. He is considered by many to be the greatest mathematician of the 20th century.\n\nBorn in Germany, Grothendieck was raised and lived primarily in France. For much of his working life, however, he was, in effect, stateless. As he consistently spelled his first name \"Alexander\" rather than \"Alexandre\" and his surname, taken from his mother, was the Dutch-like Low German \"Grothendieck\", he was sometimes mistakenly believed to be of Dutch origin.\n\nGrothendieck began his productive and public career as a mathematician in 1949. In 1958, he was appointed a research professor at the Institut des hautes études scientifiques (IHÉS) and remained there until 1970, when, driven by personal and political convictions, he left following a dispute over military funding. He later became professor at the University of Montpellier and, while still producing relevant mathematical work, he withdrew from the mathematical community and devoted himself to political causes. Soon after his formal retirement in 1988, he moved to the Pyrenees, where he lived in isolation until his death in 2014.\n\nGrothendieck was born in Berlin to anarchist parents. His father, Alexander \"Sascha\" Schapiro (also known as Alexander Tanaroff), had Hassidic roots and had been imprisoned in Russia before moving to Germany in 1922, while his mother, Johanna \"Hanka\" Grothendieck, came from a Protestant family in Hamburg and worked as a journalist. Both had broken away from their early backgrounds in their teens. At the time of his birth, Grothendieck's mother was married to the journalist Johannes Raddatz and his birthname was initially recorded as \"Alexander Raddatz.\" The marriage was dissolved in 1929 and Schapiro/Tanaroff acknowledged his paternity, but never married Hanka.\n\nGrothendieck lived with his parents in Berlin until the end of 1933, when his father moved to Paris to evade Nazism, followed soon thereafter by his mother. They left Grothendieck in the care of Wilhelm Heydorn, a Lutheran pastor and teacher in Hamburg. During this time, his parents took part in the Spanish Civil War, according to , as non-combatant auxiliaries, though others state that Sascha fought in the anarchist militia.\n\nIn May 1939, Grothendieck was put on a train in Hamburg for France. Shortly afterwards his father was interned in Le Vernet. He and his mother were then interned in various camps from 1940 to 1942 as \"undesirable dangerous foreigners\". The first was the , where his mother contracted the tuberculosis which eventually caused her death and where Alexander managed to attend the local school, at Mende. Once Alexander managed to escape from the camp, intending to assassinate Hitler. Later, his mother Hanka was transferred to the Gurs internment camp for the remainder of World War II. Alexander was permitted to live, separated from his mother, in the village of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon, sheltered and hidden in local boarding houses or pensions, though he occasionally had to seek refuge in the woods during Nazis raids, surviving at times without food or water for several days. His father was arrested under the Vichy anti-Jewish legislation, and sent to the Drancy, and then handed over by the French Vichy government to the Germans to be sent to be murdered at the Auschwitz concentration camp in 1942. In Chambon, Grothendieck attended the Collège Cévenol (now known as the Le Collège-Lycée Cévenol International), a unique secondary school founded in 1938 by local Protestant pacifists and anti-war activists. Many of the refugee children hidden in Chambon attended Cévenol, and it was at this school that Grothendieck apparently first became fascinated with mathematics.\n\nAfter the war, the young Grothendieck studied mathematics in France, initially at the University of Montpellier where he did not initially perform well, failing such classes as astronomy. Working on his own, he rediscovered the Lebesgue measure. After three years of increasingly independent studies there, he went to continue his studies in Paris in 1948.\n\nInitially, Grothendieck attended Henri Cartan's Seminar at École Normale Supérieure, but he lacked the necessary background to follow the high-powered seminar. On the advice of Cartan and André Weil, he moved to the University of Nancy where he wrote his dissertation under Laurent Schwartz and Jean Dieudonné on functional analysis, from 1950 to 1953. At this time he was a leading expert in the theory of topological vector spaces.. From 1953 to 1955 he moved to the University of São Paulo in Brazil, where he immigrated by means of a Nansen passport, given that he refused to take French Nationality. By 1957, he set this subject aside in order to work in algebraic geometry and homological algebra. The same year he was invited to visit Harvard by Oscar Zariski, but the offer fell through when he refused to sign a pledge promising not to work to overthrow the United States government, a position that, he was warned, might have landed him in prison. The prospect did not worry him, as long as he could have access to books.\n\nComparing Grothendieck during his Nancy years to the École Normale Supérieure trained students at that time: Pierre Samuel, Roger Godement, René Thom, Jacques Dixmier, Jean Cerf, Yvonne Bruhat, Jean-Pierre Serre, Bernard Malgrange, Leila Schneps says:\n\nIn 1958 Grothendieck was installed at the Institut des hautes études scientifiques (IHÉS), a new privately funded research institute that, in effect, had been created for Jean Dieudonné and Grothendieck. Grothendieck attracted attention by an intense and highly productive activity of seminars there (\"de facto\" working groups drafting into foundational work some of the ablest French and other mathematicians of the younger generation). Grothendieck himself practically ceased publication of papers through the conventional, learned journal route. He was, however, able to play a dominant role in mathematics for around a decade, gathering a strong school.\n\nDuring this time, he had officially as students Michel Demazure (who worked on SGA3, on group schemes), Luc Illusie (cotangent complex), Michel Raynaud, Jean-Louis Verdier (cofounder of the derived category theory) and Pierre Deligne. Collaborators on the SGA projects also included Michael Artin (étale cohomology) and Nick Katz (monodromy theory and Lefschetz pencils). Jean Giraud worked out torsor theory extensions of nonabelian cohomology. Many others were involved.\n\nAlexander Grothendieck's work during the \"Golden Age\" period at the IHÉS established several unifying themes in algebraic geometry, number theory, topology, category theory and complex analysis. His first (pre-IHÉS) discovery in algebraic geometry was the Grothendieck–Hirzebruch–Riemann–Roch theorem, a generalisation of the Hirzebruch–Riemann–Roch theorem proved algebraically; in this context he also introduced K-theory. Then, following the programme he outlined in his talk at the 1958 International Congress of Mathematicians, he introduced the theory of schemes, developing it in detail in his \"Éléments de géométrie algébrique\" (\"EGA\") and providing the new more flexible and general foundations for algebraic geometry that has been adopted in the field since that time. He went on to introduce the étale cohomology theory of schemes, providing the key tools for proving the Weil conjectures, as well as crystalline cohomology and algebraic de Rham cohomology to complement it. Closely linked to these cohomology theories, he originated topos theory as a generalisation of topology (relevant also in categorical logic). He also provided an algebraic definition of fundamental groups of schemes and more generally the main structures of a categorical Galois theory. As a framework for his coherent duality theory he also introduced derived categories, which were further developed by Verdier.\n\nThe results of work on these and other topics were published in the \"EGA\" and in less polished form in the notes of the \"Séminaire de géométrie algébrique\" (\"SGA\") that he directed at the IHÉS.\n\nGrothendieck's political views were radical and pacifist, and he strongly opposed both United States intervention in Vietnam and Soviet military expansionism. He gave lectures on category theory in the forests surrounding Hanoi while the city was being bombed, to protest against the Vietnam War. He retired from scientific life around 1970, having found out that IHÉS was partly funded by the military. He returned to academia a few years later as a professor at the University of Montpellier.\n\nWhile the issue of military funding was perhaps the most obvious explanation for Grothendieck's departure from the IHÉS, those who knew him say that the causes of the rupture ran deeper. Pierre Cartier, a \"visiteur de longue durée\" (\"long-term guest\") at the IHÉS, wrote a piece about Grothendieck for a special volume published on the occasion of the IHÉS's fortieth anniversary. The \"Grothendieck Festschrift\", published in 1990, was a three-volume collection of research papers to mark his sixtieth birthday in 1988.\n\nIn it, Cartier notes that as the son of an antimilitary anarchist and one who grew up among the disenfranchised, Grothendieck always had a deep compassion for the poor and the downtrodden. As Cartier puts it, Grothendieck came to find Bures-sur-Yvette \"une cage dorée\" (\"a gilded cage\"). While Grothendieck was at the IHÉS, opposition to the Vietnam War was heating up, and Cartier suggests that this also reinforced Grothendieck's distaste at having become a mandarin of the scientific world. In addition, after several years at the IHÉS, Grothendieck seemed to cast about for new intellectual interests. By the late 1960s, he had started to become interested in scientific areas outside mathematics. David Ruelle, a physicist who joined the IHÉS faculty in 1964, said that Grothendieck came to talk to him a few times about physics. Biology interested Grothendieck much more than physics, and he organized some seminars on biological topics.\n\nIn 1970, Grothendieck, with two other mathematicians, Claude Chevalley and Pierre Samuel, created a political group called \"Survivre\"—the name later changed to \"Survivre et vivre\". The group published a bulletin and was dedicated to antimilitary and ecological issues, and also developed strong criticism of the indiscriminate use of science and technology. Grothendieck devoted the next three years to this group and served as the main editor of its bulletin.\n\nAfter leaving the IHÉS, Grothendieck became a temporary professor at Collège de France for two years. He then became a professor at the University of Montpellier, where he became increasingly estranged from the mathematical community. His mathematical career, for the most part, ended when he left the IHÉS. He formally retired in 1988, a few years after having accepted a research position at the CNRS.\n\nWhile not publishing mathematical research in conventional ways during the 1980s, he produced several influential manuscripts with limited distribution, with both mathematical and biographical content.\n\nProduced during 1980 and 1981, \"La Longue Marche à travers la théorie de Galois\" (\"The Long March Through Galois Theory\") is a 1600-page handwritten manuscript containing many of the ideas that led to the \"Esquisse d'un programme\". It also includes a study of Teichmüller theory.\n\nIn 1983, stimulated by correspondence with Ronald Brown and Tim Porter at Bangor University, Grothendieck wrote a 600-page manuscript titled \"Pursuing Stacks\", starting with a letter addressed to Daniel Quillen. This letter and successive parts were distributed from Bangor (see External links below). Within these, in an informal, diary-like manner, Grothendieck explained and developed his ideas on the relationship between algebraic homotopy theory and algebraic geometry and prospects for a noncommutative theory of stacks. The manuscript, which is being edited for publication by G. Maltsiniotis, later led to another of his monumental works, \"Les Dérivateurs\". Written in 1991, this latter opus of about 2000 pages further developed the homotopical ideas begun in \"Pursuing Stacks\". Much of this work anticipated the subsequent development of the motivic homotopy theory of Fabien Morel and V. Voevodsky in the mid-1990s.\n\nIn 1984, Grothendieck wrote the proposal \"Esquisse d'un Programme\" (\"Sketch of a Programme\") for a position at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS). It describes new ideas for studying the moduli space of complex curves. Although Grothendieck himself never published his work in this area, the proposal inspired other mathematicians' work by becoming the source of dessin d'enfant theory and Anabelian geometry. It was later published in the two-volume \"Geometric Galois Actions\" (Cambridge University Press, 1997).\n\nDuring this period, Grothendieck also gave his consent to publishing some of his drafts for EGA on Bertini-type theorems (\"EGA\" V, published in Ulam Quarterly in 1992-1993 and later made available on the Grothendieck Circle web site in 2004).\n\nIn the 1,000-page autobiographical manuscript \"Récoltes et semailles\" (1986) Grothendieck describes his approach to mathematics and his experiences in the mathematical community, a community that initially accepted him in an open and welcoming manner but which he progressively perceived to be governed by competition and status. He complains about what he saw as the \"burial\" of his work and betrayal by his former students and colleagues after he had left the community. \"Récoltes et semailles\" work is now available on the internet in the French original, and an English translation is underway. Parts of \"Récoltes et semailles\" have been translated into Spanish and into Russian and published in Moscow.\n\nIn 1988 Grothendieck declined the Crafoord Prize with an open letter to the media. He wrote that established mathematicians like himself had no need for additional financial support and criticized what he saw as the declining ethics of the scientific community, characterized by outright scientific theft that, according to him, had become commonplace and tolerated. The letter also expressed his belief that totally unforeseen events before the end of the century would lead to an unprecedented collapse of civilization. Grothendieck added however that his views are \"in no way meant as a criticism of the Royal Academy's aims in the administration of its funds\" and added \"I regret the inconvenience that my refusal to accept the Crafoord prize may have caused you and the Royal Academy.\"\n\n\"La Clef des Songes\", a 315-page manuscript written in 1987, is Grothendieck's account of how his consideration of the source of dreams led him to conclude that God exists. As part of the notes to this manuscript, Grothendieck described the life and work of 18 \"mutants\", people whom he admired as visionaries far ahead of their time and heralding a new age. The only mathematician on his list was Bernhard Riemann. Influenced by the Catholic mystic Marthe Robin who was claimed to survive on the Holy Eucharist alone, Grothendieck almost starved himself to death in 1988. His growing preoccupation with spiritual matters was also evident in a letter titled \"Lettre de la Bonne Nouvelle\" sent to 250 friends in January 1990. In it, he described his encounters with a deity and announced that a \"New Age\" would commence on 14 October 1996.\n\nOver 20,000 pages of Grothendieck's mathematical and other writings, held at the University of Montpellier, remain unpublished. They have been digitized for preservation and are freely available in open access through the Institut Montpelliérain Alexander Grothendieck portal.\n\nIn 1991, Grothendieck moved to a new address which he did not provide to his previous contacts in the mathematical community. Very few people visited him afterward. Local villagers helped sustain him with a more varied diet after he tried to live on a staple of dandelion soup. After his death, it was revealed that he lived alone in a house in Lasserre, Ariège, a small village at the foot of the Pyrenees.\n\nIn January 2010, Grothendieck wrote the letter \"Déclaration d'intention de non-publication\" to Luc Illusie, claiming that all materials published in his absence have been published without his permission. He asks that none of his work be reproduced in whole or in part and that copies of this work be removed from libraries. A website devoted to his work was called \"an abomination.\" This order may have been reversed later in 2010.\n\nOn 13 November 2014, aged 86, Grothendieck died in the hospital of Saint-Girons, Ariège.\n\nGrothendieck was born in Weimar Germany. In 1938, aged ten, he moved to France as a refugee. Records of his nationality were destroyed in the fall of Germany in 1945 and he did not apply for French citizenship after the war. He thus became a stateless person for at least the majority of his working life, traveling on a Nansen passport. Part of this reluctance to hold French nationality is attributed to not wishing to serve in the French military, particularly due to the Algerian War (1954–62). He eventually applied for French citizenship in the early 1980s, well past the age that exempted him from military service.\n\nGrothendieck was very close to his mother to whom he dedicated his dissertation. She died in 1957 from the tuberculosis that she contracted in camps for displaced persons. He had five children: a son with his landlady during his time in Nancy, three children, Johanna (1959), Alexander (1961) and Mathieu (1965) with his wife Mireille Dufour, and one child with Justine Skalba, with whom he lived in a commune in the early 1970s.\n\nGrothendieck's early mathematical work was in functional analysis. Between 1949 and 1953 he worked on his doctoral thesis in this subject at Nancy, supervised by Jean Dieudonné and Laurent Schwartz. His key contributions include topological tensor products of topological vector spaces, the theory of nuclear spaces as foundational for Schwartz distributions, and the application of L spaces in studying linear maps between topological vector spaces. In a few years, he had turned himself into a leading authority on this area of functional analysis—to the extent that Dieudonné compares his impact in this field to that of Banach.\n\nIt is, however, in algebraic geometry and related fields where Grothendieck did his most important and influential work. From about 1955 he started to work on sheaf theory and homological algebra, producing the influential \"Tôhoku paper\" (\"Sur quelques points d'algèbre homologique\", published in the Tohoku Mathematical Journal in 1957) where he introduced abelian categories and applied their theory to show that sheaf cohomology can be defined as certain derived functors in this context.\n\nHomological methods and sheaf theory had already been introduced in algebraic geometry by Jean-Pierre Serre and others, after sheaves had been defined by Jean Leray. Grothendieck took them to a higher level of abstraction and turned them into a key organising principle of his theory. He shifted attention from the study of individual varieties to the \"relative point of view\" (pairs of varieties related by a morphism), allowing a broad generalization of many classical theorems. The first major application was the relative version of Serre's theorem showing that the cohomology of a coherent sheaf on a complete variety is finite-dimensional; Grothendieck's theorem shows that the higher direct images of coherent sheaves under a proper map are coherent; this reduces to Serre's theorem over a one-point space.\n\nIn 1956, he applied the same thinking to the Riemann–Roch theorem, which had already recently been generalized to any dimension by Hirzebruch. The Grothendieck–Riemann–Roch theorem was announced by Grothendieck at the initial Mathematische Arbeitstagung in Bonn, in 1957. It appeared in print in a paper written by Armand Borel with Serre. This result was his first work in algebraic geometry. He went on to plan and execute a programme for rebuilding the foundations of algebraic geometry, which were then in a state of flux and under discussion in Claude Chevalley's seminar; he outlined his programme in his talk at the 1958 International Congress of Mathematicians.\n\nHis foundational work on algebraic geometry is at a higher level of abstraction than all prior versions. He adapted the use of non-closed generic points, which led to the theory of schemes. He also pioneered the systematic use of nilpotents. As 'functions' these can take only the value 0, but they carry infinitesimal information, in purely algebraic settings. His \"theory of schemes\" has become established as the best universal foundation for this field, because of its expressiveness as well as technical depth. In that setting one can use birational geometry, techniques from number theory, Galois theory and commutative algebra, and close analogues of the methods of algebraic topology, all in an integrated way.\n\nHe is also noted for his mastery of abstract approaches to mathematics and his perfectionism in matters of formulation and presentation. Relatively little of his work after 1960 was published by the conventional route of the learned journal, circulating initially in duplicated volumes of seminar notes; his influence was to a considerable extent personal. His influence spilled over into many other branches of mathematics, for example the contemporary theory of D-modules. (It also provoked adverse reactions, with many mathematicians seeking out more concrete areas and problems.)\n\nThe bulk of Grothendieck's published work is collected in the monumental, yet incomplete, \"Éléments de géométrie algébrique\" (\"EGA\") and \"Séminaire de géométrie algébrique\" (\"SGA\"). The collection \"Fondements de la Géometrie Algébrique\" (\"FGA\"), which gathers together talks given in the Séminaire Bourbaki, also contains important material.\n\nGrothendieck's work includes the invention of the étale and l-adic cohomology theories, which explain an observation of André Weil's that there is a connection between the topological characteristics of a variety and its diophantine (number theoretic) properties. For example, the number of solutions of an equation over a finite field reflects the topological nature of its solutions over the complex numbers. Weil realized that to prove such a connection one needed a new cohomology theory, but neither he nor any other expert saw how to do this until such a theory was found by Grothendieck.\n\nThis program culminated in the proofs of the Weil conjectures, the last of which was settled by Grothendieck's student Pierre Deligne in the early 1970s after Grothendieck had largely withdrawn from mathematics.\n\nIn Grothendieck's retrospective \"Récoltes et Semailles\", he identified twelve of his contributions which he believed qualified as \"great ideas\". In chronological order, they are:\n\nHere the term \"yoga\" denotes a kind of \"meta-theory\" that can be used heuristically; Michel Raynaud writes the other terms \"Ariadne's thread\" and \"philosophy\" as effective equivalents.\n\nGrothendieck wrote that, of these themes, the largest in scope was topoi, as they synthesized algebraic geometry, topology, and arithmetic. The theme that had been most extensively developed was schemes, which were the framework \"par excellence\" for eight of the other themes (all but 1, 5, and 12). Grothendieck wrote that the first and last themes, topological tensor products and regular configurations, were of more modest size than the others. Topological tensor products had played the role of a tool rather than a source of inspiration for further developments; but he expected that regular configurations could not be exhausted within the lifetime of a mathematician who devoted himself to it. He believed that the deepest themes were motives, anabelian geometry, and Galois–Teichmüller theory.\n\nGrothendieck is considered by many to be the greatest mathematician of the 20th century. In an obituary David Mumford and John Tate wrote:\nAlthough mathematics became more and more abstract and general throughout the 20th century, it was Alexander Grothendieck who was the greatest master of this trend. His unique skill was to eliminate all unnecessary hypotheses and burrow into an area so deeply that its inner patterns on the most abstract level revealed themselves–and then, like a magician, show how the solution of old problems fell out in straightforward ways now that their real nature had been revealed.\n\nBy the 1970s, Grothendieck's work was seen as influential not only in algebraic geometry, and the allied fields of sheaf theory and homological algebra, but influenced logic, in the field of categorical logic.\n\nGrothendieck approached algebraic geometry by clarifying the foundations of the field, and by developing mathematical tools intended to prove a number of notable conjectures. Algebraic geometry has traditionally meant the understanding of geometric objects, such as algebraic curves and surfaces, through the study of the algebraic equations for those objects. Properties of algebraic equations are in turn studied using the techniques of ring theory. In this approach, the properties of a geometric object are related to the properties of an associated ring. The space (e.g., real, complex, or projective) in which the object is defined is extrinsic to the object, while the ring is intrinsic.\n\nGrothendieck laid a new foundation for algebraic geometry by making intrinsic spaces (\"spectra\") and associated rings the primary objects of study. To that end he developed the theory of schemes, which can be informally thought of as topological spaces on which a commutative ring is associated to every open subset of the space. Schemes have become the basic objects of study for practitioners of modern algebraic geometry. Their use as a foundation allowed geometry to absorb technical advances from other fields.\n\nHis generalization of the classical Riemann-Roch theorem related topological properties of complex algebraic curves to their algebraic structure. The tools he developed to prove this theorem started the study of algebraic and topological K-theory, which study the topological properties of objects by associating them with rings. Topological K-theory was founded by Michael Atiyah, after direct contact with Grothendieck's ideas at the Bonn Arbeitstagung.\n\nGrothendieck's construction of new cohomology theories, which use algebraic techniques to study topological objects, has influenced the development of algebraic number theory, algebraic topology, and representation theory. As part of this project, his creation of topos theory, a category-theoretic generalization of point-set topology, has influenced the fields of set theory and mathematical logic.\n\nThe Weil conjectures were formulated in the later 1940s as a set of mathematical problems in arithmetic geometry. They describe properties of analytic invariants, called local zeta functions, of the number of points on an algebraic curve or variety of higher dimension. Grothendieck's discovery of the ℓ-adic étale cohomology, the first example of a Weil cohomology theory, opened the way for a proof of the Weil conjectures, ultimately completed in the 1970s by his student Pierre Deligne. Grothendieck's large-scale approach has been called a \"visionary program.\" The ℓ-adic cohomology then became a fundamental tool for number theorists, with applications to the Langlands program.\n\nGrothendieck's conjectural theory of motives was intended to be the \"ℓ-adic\" theory but without the choice of \"ℓ\", a prime number. It did not provide the intended route to the Weil conjectures, but has been behind modern developments in algebraic K-theory, motivic homotopy theory, and motivic integration. This theory, Daniel Quillen's work, and Grothendieck's theory of Chern classes, are considered the background to the theory of algebraic cobordism, another algebraic analogue of topological ideas.\n\nGrothendieck's emphasis on the role of universal properties across varied mathematical structures brought category theory into the mainstream as an organizing principle for mathematics in general. Among its uses, category theory creates a common language for describing similar structures and techniques seen in many different mathematical systems. His notion of abelian category is now the basic object of study in homological algebra. The emergence of a separate mathematical discipline of category theory has been attributed to Grothendieck's influence, though unintentional.\n\nThe novel \"Colonel Lágrimas\" (\"Colonel Tears\" in English, available by Restless Books) by Puerto Rican - Costa Rican writer Carlos Fonseca is a semibiographic novel about Grothendieck.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9561564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9561564", "title": "Alienation (property law)", "text": "Alienation (property law)\n\nIn property law, alienation is the voluntary act of an owner of some property disposing of the property, while alienable is the capacity for a piece of property or a property right to be sold or otherwise transferred from one party to another. Most property is alienable, but some may be subject to restraints on alienation. In England under the feudal system, land was generally transferred by subinfeudation and alienation required licence from the overlord. Some objects are incapable of being regarded as property and are inalienable, such as people and body parts. Aboriginal title is one example of inalienability (save to the Crown) in common law jurisdictions. A similar concept is non-transferability, such as tickets. Rights commonly described as a licence or permit are generally only personal and are not assignable. However, they are alienable in the sense that they can generally be surrendered.\n\nEnglish common law traditionally protected freehold landowners from unsecured creditors. In 1732, the Parliament of Great Britain passed legislation entitled “The Act for the More Easy Recovery of Debts in His Majesty’s Plantations and Colonies in America”, which required all real property in British America to be treated as chattel for debt collection purposes. The legislation was reenacted by many statehouses after the American Revolution, leading to the more commodified and transferable development of American property law.\n"}
{"id": "2831587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2831587", "title": "Alluvion", "text": "Alluvion\n\nAlluvion, a word taken from Roman law, is a legal term, describing the increase in the area of land without any act being taken by the owner. The typical cause is sediment (alluvium) deposited by a river. This changes the size of a piece of land (a process called accession) and thus its value over time.\n\n"}
{"id": "3660756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3660756", "title": "Armed Forces Law Association of New Zealand", "text": "Armed Forces Law Association of New Zealand\n\nThe Armed Forces Law Association of New Zealand was formed in 2000 by lawyers in the military justice system, and those with a professional interest in the law of the armed forces of the Crown, and of the law of armed conflict.\n"}
{"id": "12793067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12793067", "title": "Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union", "text": "Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union\n\nArticle 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (formerly Article 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community) is aimed at preventing undertakings who hold a dominant position in a market from abusing that position. Its core role is the regulation of monopolies, which restrict competition in private industry and produce worse outcomes for consumers and society. It is the second key provision, after Article 101, in TFEU competition law. The text of provides the following,\n\nThe wording of the provision gives rise to a number of issues to consider in the application of Article 102; namely, the concept of ‘one or more undertaking’, ‘Relevant market’, ‘Dominant position’ and ‘Effect on trade between member states’.\n\nAn entity must be an ‘undertaking’ to be subject to Community competition law and therefore Article 102. The European Court of Justice (ECJ) in Hofner v Elser states that “The concept of an undertaking encompasses every entity engaged in economic activity regardless of the legal status of the entity and the way in which it is financed.” The European courts have ruled that Acts of, solidarity (such as the provision of public health care), public interest (such as the improvement of air navigation safety), and the protection of the environment are not economic in nature and therefore fall outside the application of European Community competition rules.\n\nArticle 102 is not confined to actions of single undertakings as the inclusion of the phrase 'one or more undertaking' leads to the inclusion of 'collective dominance,' which tends to occur were there are a small number of businesses in a market who make concerted strategic decisions taking into account the actions of other members of the oligopoly. The commission confirmed the validity of this principle in Airtours v Commission and in doing so set down a strict set of evidential conditions:\n\n\nDefining the relevant market is a vital precondition to assessing dominance. Market definition can be used to establish the boundaries of competition between undertakings, with the purpose of identifying the competitive constraints faced by the firms.\n\nThe commission measures these competitive constrains in both the Market and Geographical dimension. With the relevant market within which to assess competition being a combination of both approaches. With the competitive constraints assessed via demand substitution, supply substitution and potential competition.\n\nThe Commission defines the relative product market as, a market that comprises all \"products and/or services which are regarded as interchangeable or substitutable by the consumer, by reason of the products' characteristics, their prices and their intended use\".\n\nTwo common tests used to assess the interchangeability of product market are:\n\n\nThe Commission defines Geographical market as a \"market comprises the area in which the undertakings concerned are involved in the supply and demand of products or services, in which the conditions of competition are sufficiently homogeneous and which can be distinguished from neighbouring areas because the conditions of competition are appreciably different in those area.\"\n\nThe existence of the cellophane fallacy implies that market definition in Article 102 cases needs to be particularly carefully considered and that any single method of market definition, including in particular the SSNIP-test, is likely to be inadequate. It is necessary to rely on a variety of methods for checking the robustness of possible alternative market definitions.\nThe EC treaty gives no definition of ‘dominance’ leaving it to the commission subject to the relevant control of the European courts to determine whether a ‘dominant position’ exists by reference to the relevant market factors, or whether it behaves \"to an appreciable extent independently of its competitors, customers and ultimately of its consumer.\" In Hoffman-la Roche the ECJ ruled that a ‘very large’ market share would give rise a rebuttable presumption of dominance. The ECJ then established in AKZO following from Hoffman that the presumption of dominance arises at a market share of 50%. Where a firm has a dominant position, it has \"a special responsibility not to allow its conduct to impair competition on the common market\"\n\nAlthough an undertakings market shares is a good indication of ‘Dominance’, it is not conclusive and at best serves as a first indication of market power. A finding of dominance derives from a combination of several factors, Para 12 of the Commissions guidance highlights three factors that the Commission will consider; Actual Competitors, Potential Competitors, and Countervailing Buying Power.\n\nThe Commission has sought to move towards a more effects based test for dominance and in doing so has published its Guidance on Enforcement priorities for article 102, However as the commission cannot bind the European courts the current jurisprudence is unaffected. This has led to some commentators questioning the need for the guidelines and some evening going as far to stress they should be removed as it only serves to further complicate the law. However, as noted by Advocate General Mazak in his opinion in TeliaSonera although the commissions’ guidance may not bind the court it provided a ‘useful point of reference’ and It will also form the basis of whether the Commission will pursue claims in the future.\n\nThe court of justice ruled in Commercial solvents that the requirement of an appreciable effect on trade between member states would be satisfied where conduct brought about an altercation in the structure of competition in the internal market.\n\nThe commission provides further guidelines on the effect of trade concept contained in Articles 101 and 102 TFEU, detailing the general principles, the concept of trade between member states. The notion of May effect and the concept of appreciability.\nAbusive conduct is usually organised under different categories, from those in Article 102, and more. As was stated in \"Continental Can\" [1973] the categories are not closed.\n\nUnder Article 102(a) \"directly or indirectly imposing unfair purchase or selling prices or other unfair trading conditions\" is considered abusive. Price exploitation is one example. It is difficult to prove at what point a dominant firm's prices become \"exploitative\" and this category of abuse is rarely found. In one case however, a French funeral service was found to have demanded exploitative prices, and this was justified on the basis that prices of funeral services outside the region could be compared.\n\nUnder Article 102(b), \"limiting production, markets or technical development to the prejudice of consumers\" is considered an abuse by a dominant undertaking. An example was found in \"Porto di Genova\" [1991], where a shipping port refused to raise expenditure and update technology. This limited the amount of cargo that the port could deal with to the detriment of some of its users.\n\nPrice discrimination falls under Article 102(c), whereby an abuse is \"applying dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with other trading parties, thereby placing them at a competitive disadvantage\". An example of this could be offering rebates to industrial customers who export your company's sugar, but not to Irish customers who are selling their goods in the same market as you are in.\n\nUnder Article 102(d) \"tying\" is defined as \"making the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by their nature or according to commercial usage, have no connection with the subject of such contracts.\" Tying one product into the sale of another can be considered abuse too, being restrictive of consumer choice and depriving competitors of outlets. This was the alleged case in \"Microsoft v. Commission\" leading to an eventual fine of €497 million for including its Windows Media Player with the Microsoft Windows platform. A refusal to supply a facility which is essential for all businesses attempting to compete to use can constitute an abuse. One example was in a case involving a medical company named \"Commercial Solvents\". When it set up its own rival in the tuberculosis drugs market, Commercial Solvents was forced to continue supplying a company named Zoja with the raw materials for the drug. Zoja was the only market competitor, so without the court forcing supply, all competition would have been eliminated.\n\nPredatory pricing is a controversial category. This is the practice of dropping prices of a product below costs so that one's smaller competitors cannot cover their costs and leave the market. The Chicago School holds predatory pricing to be impossible, because if it were then banks would lend money to finance it. However, in \"France Telecom SA v Commission\" a broadband internet company was forced to pay €10.35 Million for dropping its prices below its own production costs. It had \"no interest in applying such prices except that of eliminating competitors\" and was being subsidised to capture the bigger share of a booming market.\n\n"}
{"id": "43817398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43817398", "title": "Awa v Independent News Auckland Ltd", "text": "Awa v Independent News Auckland Ltd\n\nAwa v Independent News Auckland Ltd [1997] 3 NZLR 590 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding the defence of fair comment / honest opinion to a claim involving defamation \n\nIn the aftermath of the death of comedian Billy T. James, his uncle Awa took his body away from his Pakeha wife, in order to give him a customary Māori burial at his ancestral marae.\n\nAuckland's \"Sunday News\" newspaper covered it with a quote referring to Awa as \"Billy's 'body snatching' uncle\".\n\nAwa subsequently sued for defamation, which the newspaper claimed was \"fair comment\".\n\nThe Court held it was fair comment.\n"}
{"id": "37858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37858", "title": "Butler Act", "text": "Butler Act\n\nThe Butler Act was a 1925 Tennessee law introduced by Tennessee House of Representatives member John Washington Butler prohibiting public school teachers from denying the Biblical account of mankind's origin. It was enacted as Tennessee Code Annotated Title 49 (Education) Section 1922, having been signed into law by Tennessee governor Austin Peay. The law also prevented the teaching of the evolution of man from what it referred to as lower orders of animals in place of the Biblical account.\n\nThe law was challenged later that year in a famous trial in Dayton, Tennessee called the Scopes Trial which included a raucous confrontation between prosecution attorney and fundamentalist religious leader, William Jennings Bryan, and noted defense attorney and religious agnostic, Clarence Darrow.\n\nIt was repealed in 1967.\n\nThe law, \"An act prohibiting the teaching of the Evolution Theory in all the Universities, and all other public schools of Tennessee, which are supported in whole or in part by the public school funds of the State, and to provide penalties for the violations thereof\" (Tenn. HB 185, 1925) specifically provided:\n\nIt additionally outlined that an offending teacher would be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined between $100 and $500 for each offense.\n\nBy the terms of the statute, it could be argued, it was not illegal to teach evolution in respect to non-human creatures, such as that apes descended from protozoa or to teach the mechanisms of variation and natural selection. The bill also did not touch on, or restrict the teaching of prevailing scientific theories of geology or the age of the Earth. It did not even require that the Genesis story be taught, but prohibited solely the teaching that man evolved, or any other theory denying that man was created by God as recorded in Genesis. However the author of the law, a Tennessee farmer named John Washington Butler, specifically intended that it would prohibit the teaching of evolution. He later was reported to have said, \"No, I didn't know anything about evolution when I introduced it. I'd read in the papers that boys and girls were coming home from school and telling their fathers and mothers that the Bible was all nonsense.\" After reading copies of William Jennings Bryan's lecture \"Is the Bible True?\" as well as Charles Darwin's \"The Origin of Species\" and \"The Descent of Man\", Butler decided the teaching of evolution was dangerous.\n\nThe law was challenged by the ACLU in the famed Scopes Trial, in which John Scopes, a high school science teacher who agreed to be arrested on a charge of having taught evolution, and was nominally served a warrant on May 5, 1925. Scopes was indicted on May 25 and ultimately convicted; on appeal the Tennessee Supreme Court found the law to be constitutional under the Tennessee State Constitution, because:\n\nWe are not able to see how the prohibition of teaching the theory that man has descended from a lower order of animals gives preference to any religious establishment or mode of worship. So far as we know, there is no religious establishment or organized body that has in its creed or confession of faith any article denying or affirming such a theory. — Scopes v. State 289 S.W. 363, 367 (Tenn. 1927)\n\nDespite this decision, the Tennessee Supreme Court reversed the conviction on a technicality (that the jury should have fixed the amount of the fine), and the case was not retried. During the trial, Butler told reporters: \"I never had any idea my bill would make a fuss. I just thought it would become a law, and that everybody would abide by it and that we wouldn't hear any more of evolution in Tennessee.\"\n\nThe law remained on the books until 1967, when teacher Gary L. Scott of Jacksboro, Tennessee, who had been dismissed for violation of the act, sued for reinstatement, citing his First Amendment right to free speech. Although his termination was rescinded, Scott continued his fight with a class action lawsuit in the Nashville Federal District Court, seeking a permanent injunction against enforcement of that law. Within three days of his filing suit, a bill for repeal of the Butler Act had passed both houses of the Tennessee legislature and was signed into law May 18 by Governor Buford Ellington.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34816686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34816686", "title": "Communications Capabilities Development Programme", "text": "Communications Capabilities Development Programme\n\nThe Communications Capabilities Development Programme (CCDP) is a UK government initiative to extend the government's capabilities for lawful interception and storage of communications data. It would involve the logging of every telephone call, email and text message between every inhabitant of the UK, (but would not record the actual content of these emails) and is intended to extend beyond the realms of conventional telecommunications media to log communications within social networking platforms such as Twitter and Facebook.\n\nIt is an initiative of the Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism at the Home Office, whose Director is Tom Hurd. The office pursued a very similar initiative under the last Labour government, called the Interception Modernisation Programme, which after apparently being cancelled, was revived by the Liberal-Conservative coalition government in their 2010 Strategic Defence and Security Review.\n\nThe effort to develop it will be led by a new government organisation, the Communications Capabilities Directorate. In March 2010, it was reported that the Communications Capabilities Directorate had spent over £14m in a single month on set-up costs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32736990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32736990", "title": "Company and Securities Law Journal", "text": "Company and Securities Law Journal\n\nThe Company and Securities Law Journal is a peer-reviewed law journal published in Australia since 1982.\n\nThe general editors are Bob Baxt (founding editor) and Dr Paul Ali. The editorial board includes Reginald Ian Barrett, Simon McKeon and Ian Ramsay.\n\nThe journal offers coverage of: \n\nThe Australian Business Deans Council has given this journal a quality rating of \"A\". The Australian Research Council has ranked this journal in the \"C\" tier, although the methodology and utility of such rankings has been challenged by Australian legal scholars and the responsible minister has indicated that this ranking system will be discontinued.\n\n"}
{"id": "317674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317674", "title": "Conseil d'État (France)", "text": "Conseil d'État (France)\n\nIn France, the Council of State ( ) is a body of the French national government that acts both as legal adviser of the executive branch and as the supreme court for administrative justice. Established in 1799 by Napoléon Bonaparte as a successor to the King's Council (\"Conseil du Roi\"), it is located in the Palais-Royal in Paris and is primarily made up of top-level legal officers. The Vice President of the Council of State ranks 9th as the most important civil servant in France.\n\nMembers of the Conseil D'État are part of a Grand Corps of the French State (grand corps de l'État). The Conseil D'État mainly recruits among the top ranking students graduating from the École nationale d'administration.\n\nA General Session of the Council of State is presided over by the Prime Minister or, in his absence, the Minister of Justice. However, since the real presidency of the Council is held by the Vice-President, he usually presides all but the most ceremonial assemblies. This is also done for obvious reasons pertaining to the separation of powers.\n\nOther members of the Council include, by decreasing order of importance:\n\nThe Vice-President is appointed by Order-in-Council on the recommendation of the Minister of Justice and is selected from among the Council's department heads or councillors ordinary. Division heads are similarly appointed and selected from among the councillors ordinary.\n\nCouncillors ordinary, masters of requests, and senior masters are appointed based on seniority from the preceding rank. Appointees from outside the Council may include administrative law judges or may come from outside the justice system.\nMasters are recruited from among the graduates of France's National Administration Academy. The Council sits in the Palais Royal located in Paris.\n\nThe Council is divided into 7 divisions:\n\nThe Council of State originates from the 13th century by which time the King's Court (\"Curia regis\") had split into three sections, one of which was the King's Council (\"Curia in consilium\", later \"Conseil du roi\"), which too broke up into three distinct parts: the \"Conseil secret\" 'Privy Council', the \"Conseil privé\" 'Private Council', and \"Conseil des finances\" 'Council of Finances'. Reorganized under Louis XIV into two major groupings, it was the \"Conseil d'État privé, finances et direction\" that was the direct ancestor of the Council of State. It brought together legal advisors and experts to advise the King on claims against the Crown. Officially established in 1557, this was the largest of the King's Councils made up of France's High Chancellor, lords of peerage, Ministers and Secretaries of State, the Comptroller-General, 30 Councillors of State, 80 masters of requests, and the Intendants of Finance. The judicial portion of the Council was known as the \"Conseil d'État privé\" or \"Conseil des parties\".\n\nThe kings, who had the power to dispense justice and hand down judgments as the court of last resort, delegated this judicial power to royal courts and parlements. But the French king still retained the power to override them at will. Specifically, French kings maintained their privilege to decide major issues and hand down judgements when administrative acts were in dispute. The judgments of the King's Council of State were regarded as being issued under the King's residual proper jurisdiction (\"justice retenue\"), that is, the sovereign's reserved power to dispense justice in certain matters. Legal advisors also assisted the King in developing new laws and, by delegated jurisdiction, directly exercised sovereign rights (\"jura regalia\").\n\n\"For more on French government administration during the Old Regime, see Ancien Régime in France.\"\n\nThe current Council of State was established by the French Consulate government in 1799 as a judicial body mandated to adjudicate claims against the State and assist in the drafting of important laws. The First Consul (later Emperor) presided over Council sessions, and the Council performed many of the functions of a Cabinet. After the Bourbon Restoration, the Council was retained as an administrative court but without its former prominence. Its role was more precisely defined by an 1872 Act of Parliament.\n\nCertain types of statutory instruments must be examined by the Council and receive its advisory approval, including:\n\nThe Council's advisory workload is divided between its administrative sections with respect to the ministry or department affected by the government order.\n\nThe Council acts as the supreme court of appeal for administrative law courts. It hears both claims against national-level administrative decisions (e.g., orders, rules, regulations, and decisions of the executive branch) and appeals from lower administrative courts. The Council's decisions are final and unappealable.\n\nWhile strictly speaking the Council is not a court, it functions as a judicial body by adjudicating suits and claims against administrative authorities. Plaintiffs are represented by barristers drawn from the Senior Court bar whose members are licensed to argue cases before the Council and French Supreme Court; any such barrister bears the title of Counsel at Senior Court (\"avocat aux Conseils\").\n\nThe Council hears cases against decisions of the national government, e.g., government orders, ministerial rules and regulations, judgments handed down by committees, commissions, and boards with nationwide jurisdiction, as well as suits concerning regional and EU electoral matters.\n\nThe Council of State evaluates how well regulations and administrative decisions comply with higher sources of law, i.e., the Constitution, higher administrative decisions, the general principles of law, statutory law, and international treaties and conventions. Much of France's substantive administrative law is not codified or laid out in statute form, but instead derived from administrative case law, primarily by the Council.\n\nThe Council has full discretion to adjudicate on the legality of any executive branch decision except for the very narrow category of \"acts of government\" for which it considers itself \"forum non conveniens\". The Council has judged that such acts are restricted to:\nIn this role, the Council provides a powerful check on the actions of the executive.\n\nThe Council of State has appellate jurisdiction over local election judgments from any of the 37 administrative courts.\n\nIt acts as a final Court of cassation for decisions originating from any of the eight appellate administrative courts, meaning that it hears cases in which the plaintiff argues that the appellate court ignored or misinterpreted the law. Should it decide that the original appellate court took the wrong decision, the Council of State will in most situations transfer the case to a different administrative court of appeal, to be re-judged. However, in the interest of swifter decision-making and correct interpretation of the law (\"bonne administration de la justice\"), it also has the right to rule on the case without transfering it, thus acting as an appellate court in last resort (\"jugement en dernier ressort\").\n\nLike nearly all French courts, the Council's court system is inquisitorial, and proceedings are initiated by a statement of claim detailing the factual background of the case and why the appellent should be granted relief. The Council then begins a formal investigation, asking the appellee, i.e., the government or a government agency or office, to satisfy the Council with a detailed statement of defense. Burden of proof does not lie with the plaintiff; instead, the Council decides whether or not the appellent has cause to bring suit and whether the government was in error if information provided by the appellent is sufficient to locate previously undisclosed evidence. Of course, both parties may submit additional pleadings and information until the case is ready for final judgment.\n\nThe formation of judgement depends on the importance of the case, for the jurisprudence and the interest of the law. All of the formations belong to the Administrative Claims department.\n\nThe small cases (without new legal issues) are treated by one under-department (\"sous-section\"). There are 10 under-departments. The bigger cases are for the united under-departments (\"sous-sections réunies\"), concerning two under-departments (for some important fiscal cases, three or four under-departments can be concerned, into a special formation, the \"full fiscal\" (\"plénière fiscale\"). \nThe more important cases are for the \"administrative claims department\" judgement formation (\"Section\"). Only the very important cases, with hard, new and important legal issues are concerned. There are about between 20 and 40 cases per year into this high formation. This formation concerns the president of the ten under-departments, the three assistant-presidents of the administrative claims department and the president of the department (plus the magistrate responsible of the investigation about the case, then 15 members).\n\nThe major cases are resolved by the \"administrative claims assembly\" (\"Assemblée du contentieux\"). All the presidents of departments are there, under the presidency of the Vice-President of the Council of State. Less than 10 cases per year are concerned.\n\nAll the cases, even the ones eventually resolved by the \"Assemblée du contentieux\", are first studied by an under-department.\n\nAlthough the procedure is written, one of the highlights of the judgement is the oral conclusions of the \"rapporteur public\" (public magistrate), giving his personal vision of the case, totally impartial and free, on a pure legal point of view. The reading of the old conclusions is often useful to understand the mind of the judges and the reason of the solution given to the case (precision : the judges are not bound by the conclusion : they are free to not follow them).\n\nSince an order of 2009 (n° 2009–14, 7 January 2009), there is a possibility to speak after the \"rapporteur public\". The lawyers use this possibility only for the major cases, when it is really useful (e.g. for the \"Hoffmann-Gleman\" case – 16 February 2009 – concerning the indemnisation of the daughter of a deported Jew during the World War II because of the French state's responsibility).\n\nIn some cases, there may be some confusion as to whether a case should be heard before an administrative law court or judicial court, in which case the Court of Jurisdictional Disputes, or \"tribunal des conflits\", sat by an even number of State councillors and Supreme Court justices and chaired by the Minister of Justice, is convened to decide to whom the matter shall be vested.\n\nExercising judicial review over almost all acts of the executive branch, the Council of State's judgments may be of considerable importance, often not for the actual case judged, but for its importance in shaping legal interpretation. While France is a civil law country and there is no formal rule of precedent (stare decisis), lower courts follow the \"jurisprudence constante\" doctrine with regard to the Council of State. The Council's major rulings are collected into law reports and commented on by scholars; the Council's official website carries a list of comments on important decisions. The Council has shaped its own legal doctrine which consists mostly of principles deduced from cases but incorporates considerable jurisprudence derived from statutes.\n\nRulings are named for the moving parties (appellents) in the cases and under highly formal courtesy titles. Men's names used to be preceded by \"Sieur\", women's names by \"Dame\" or \"Demoiselle\", and widows were referred to by their husband's name \"Dame veuve\".\n\nAbout 10,000 rulings per year are given by the Council of State.\n\nThe most important rulings are collected in a publication called \"G.A.J.A\" (i.e. \"Les Grands Arrêts de la Jurisprudence Administrative\" – The major rulings of the administrative jurisprudence -), published by Dalloz editions and written by some of the most influential authors or judges of the time in France (e.g. Bruno Genevois or Prosper Weil). The GAJA explains about 120 rulings, from 1873 to now, and quotes several hundreds of other important rulings.\n\nImportant rulings include:\n\n\nThe Council of State is linked to the French Institute of Administrative Sciences (IFSA). The vice-president of the Council of State is the president of the IFSA and its main members are state councelors.\nIn 2009, the Council of State hosted IFSA's annual conference which was organized on the theme: \"public security : partnership between public power and private sector.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1419260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1419260", "title": "Constructive possession", "text": "Constructive possession\n\nConstructive possession is a legal fiction to describe a situation where an individual has actual control over chattels or real property without actually having physical control of the same assets. At law, a person with constructive possession stands in the same legal position as a person with actual possession.\n\nFor example, if one's car is sitting in one's driveway, one has physical possession of the car. However, any person with the key has constructive possession, as they may take physical possession at any time without further consent from one.\n\nConstructive possession is an important concept in both the criminal law regarding theft and embezzlement, and the civil law regarding possession of land and chattels. For example, if someone steals your credit card number, the actual credit card never leaves your actual possession, but the person who has stolen the number does have constructive possession, and could most likely be charged with theft of your credit card information. \n\nConstructive possession is also an important concept in cases of seizure of goods by private or government authorities. Take, for example, a large piece of equipment. Should money be lent against the value of the equipment, and the loan goes into default, the creditor may find it difficult to actually remove the equipment in a timely manner. However, it may by notice to the borrower take constructive possession, which effectively prevents the borrower from further using the equipment pending its removal. Similarly, when a landlord exercises a contractual remedy of distraint of goods for unpaid rent, the landlord need not remove the goods from the premises, but may take constructive possession of the goods through a simple declaration. At that point, if the tenant attempted to remove them, the tenant would be guilty of theft. \n\nHowever, a person who makes it impossible to take possession of another's property has taken actual possession, not constructive possession. For example, if someone chains someone else's car to an immovable object, he or she has taken possession of it even though he or she has not moved it.\n\nConstructive possession can also refer to items inside of a vehicle. It is possible for the owner and driver of the vehicle to be in constructive possession of all items inside their car. If a minor were to be driving their car with passengers who have possession of alcohol or any illegal substance, the driver may be cited for constructive possession\n\nA person can be charged with constructive possession of an illegal device if they possess the otherwise legal material to assemble it. If a person has in his possession or control the ingredients to make an explosive device, he can be charged with constructive possession of that device.\n"}
{"id": "11486363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486363", "title": "Contractual term", "text": "Contractual term\n\nA contractual term is \"Any provision forming part of a contract\". Each term gives rise to a contractual obligation, breach of which can give rise to litigation. Not all terms are stated expressly and some terms carry less legal gravity as they are peripheral to the objectives of the contract.\n\nConditions are terms that go to the very root of a contract. Breach of a condition will entitle the innocent party to terminate the contract. A warranty is less imperative than a condition, so the contract will survive a breach. Breach of either a condition or a warranty will give rise to damages.\n\nIt is an objective matter of fact whether a term goes to the root of a contract. By way of illustration, an actress's obligation to perform the opening night of a theatrical production is a condition, whereas a singer's obligation to perform during the first three days of rehearsal is a warranty.\n\nStatute may also declare a term or nature of term to be a condition or warranty. For example, the \"Sale of Goods Act\" 1979 (UK) s15A provides that terms as to title, description, quality, and sample (as described in the Act) are conditions save in certain defined circumstances.\n\nLord Diplock, in \"Hong Kong Fir Shipping Co Ltd v Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd\", created the concept of an innominate term, breach of which may or may not go to the root of the contract depending upon the nature of the breach. Breach of these terms, as with all terms, will give rise to damages. Whether or not it repudiates the contract depends upon whether legal benefit of the contract has been removed from the innocent party. Megaw LJ, in 1970, preferred the use of the classic categorizing into condition or warranty due to legal certainty. This was interpreted by the House of Lords as merely restricting its application in \"Reardon Smith Line Ltd. v Hansen-Tangen\".\n\nIn general, parties can only sue for enforcement of valid contractual terms as opposed to representations or mere puffs.\n\nOnly certain statements create contractual obligations. Statements can be split into the following types:\n\nThere are various factors that a court may take into account in determining the nature of a statement. These include:\n\nThe parol evidence rule limits what things can be taken into account when trying to interpret a contract. This rule has practically ceased operation under UK law, but remains functional in Australian Law.\n\nA term may either be expressed or implied. An express term is stated by the parties during negotiation or written in a contractual document. Implied terms are not stated but nevertheless form a provision of the contract.\n\nThe Privy Council established a five-stage test in \"BP Refinery (Westernport) Pty Ltd v Shire of Hastings\". However, the English Court of Appeal sounded a note of caution with regard to the \"BP\" case in \"Philips Electronique Grand Public SA v British Sky Broadcasting Ltd\" in which the Master of the Rolls described the test as \"almost misleading\" in its simplicity.\n\nThe High Court of Australia has ruled that the test in \"BP\" applies only to formal contracts. In the case of an informal contract, where the parties have not attempted to stipulate the full terms, the courts should imply a term upon referring to the imputed intention of the parties, provided that the particular term is necessary for the effective operation of the contract. In implying terms in an informal contract, the High Court has suggested that a flexible approach is required. In a case where it is apparent that the parties have not attempted to spell out the full terms of their contract, the court should imply a term by reference to the imputed intentions of the parties if, but only if, it can be seen that the implication of the particular term is necessary for the reasonable or effective operation of a contract of that nature in the circumstances of the case. Obviousness also remains an important element in implying a term in an informal contract.\n\nThese are terms that have been implied into standardized relationships.\n\n\nThe rules by which many contracts are governed are provided in specialized statutes that deal with particular subjects. Most countries, for example, have statutes which deal directly with sale of goods, lease transactions, and trade practices. For example, each American state except Louisiana has adopted Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code, which regulates contracts for the sale of goods. The most important legislation implying terms under United Kingdom law are the Sale of Goods Act 1979, the Consumer Protection (Distance Selling) Regulations 2000 and the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 which imply terms into all contracts whereby goods are sold or services provided.\n\nOne is generally bound by the custom of the industry that one is in. To imply a term due to custom or trade, one must prove the existence of the custom, which must be notorious, certain, legal and reasonable.\n\nIf two parties have regularly conducted business on certain terms, the terms may be assumed to be same for each contract made, if not expressly agreed to the contrary. The parties must have dealt on numerous occasions and been aware of the term purported to be implied. In \"Hollier v Rambler Motors Ltd\" four occasions over five years was held to be sufficient. In \"British Crane Hire Corp Ltd v Ipswich Plant Hire Ltd\" written terms were held to have been implied into an oral contract in which there was no mention of written terms.\n\nIt is common for lengthy negotiations to be written into a heads of agreement document (sometimes unsigned, and sometimes labelled 'subject to contract') that includes a clause to the effect that the rest of the agreement is to be negotiated. Although these cases may appear to fall into the category of agreement to agree, Australian courts will imply an obligation to negotiate in good faith provided that certain conditions are satisfied:\n\nThe test of whether one has acted in good faith is a subjective one; the cases suggest honesty, and possibly also reasonableness. There is no such implied term under UK common law: an attempt was made by Lord Denning in a series of case during the 1970s and 1980s but they are no longer considered 'good law'. European legislation imposes this duty, but only in certain circumstances.\n\nThe Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 reg 8 renders ineffective any 'unfair' contractual term if made between a seller or supplier and a consumer.\nRegulation 5 of the statutory instrument further elaborates upon the concept of 'unfair', which is rather novel to English law. 'Unfair' is a term in standard form (specifically that was not individually negotiated) that \"causes a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations arising under the contract to the detriment of the consumer\". It must also be shown the term lacks 'good faith'; the claim failed in \"Director General of Fair Trading v First National Bank plc\", as striking down a relatively high interest rate (falling short of extortionary rates) would mean borrower could have safely ignored the interest rates in its loan agreements (see UK requirements for consumer financial advice/advice waivers in major consumer loan agreements) and that high-rate lenders would receive no interest.\n\nIf a contract specifies \"subject to contract\", it may fall into one of three categories as identified in \"Masters v Cameron\":\nSubsequent authorities have been willing to recognize a fourth category in addition to those stated in \"Masters v Cameron\".\n\nIf a contract specifies \"subject to finance\", it may impose certain obligations on the purchaser:\n\nIf the contract is silent on the level of effort required by the finance seeker (usually purchaser) to obtain finance, the finance seeker may come under an implied duty to cooperate. Furthermore, whether the finance seeker may validly claim non-fulfillment of a contingent condition, despite being genuinely satisfied with finance he or she obtained before the expiration of the contingent condition, was not decided in \"Meehan v Jones\".\n\n\"Subject to finance\" provisions may be also referred to as contingent conditions, which come under two categories: condition precedent and condition subsequent.\nConditions precedent are conditions that have to be complied with before performance of a contract is required by both parties\nWith conditions subsequent, parties do not need to perform the contract if a condition is not yet (such as official certification to practice in a particular course of business). The non-fulfillment of a contingent condition means that the parties are not required to perform their side of the respective bargain.\n"}
{"id": "38151875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38151875", "title": "Court auction", "text": "Court auction\n\nCourt auction is an auction which takes place at a public location designated by the court.\n\nIf a property owner fails to pay the mortgage, the mortgage holder can foreclose on that property. If the owner is unable to make sufficient payments, the property can be sold at auction. The time and place of the auction is published in official records.\n\nIn case the value of the debt being foreclosed on is substantially less than the market value of the real property, this can finish the trouble for the debitor by paying all the credits.\n\nIn Germany the court may suspend the auction for 6 months on the debtor's justified request. Justification may be hardship, e.g. if debtor has a physical disability and cannot find adequate housing. The creditor can object up to twice if the result of the auction is not sufficient to fulfil the claim. The bidder must deposit security in the amount of 10%. The highest bidder becomes the owner of the real property. If the claim is greater than the market value of the real property, debts are handled in an insolvency proceeding.\n\nSpanish mortgage holders are responsible for the full amount of the loan to the bank in addition to penalty interest charges, and court fees.\n\nHistorically, the vast majority of judicial foreclosures have been unopposed, since most defaulting borrowers have no money with which to hire counsel. The highest bidder at the auction becomes the owner of the real property, free and clear of interest of the former owner. In 2009 there was a growing consensus that the deepening collapse of the housing market was at the heart of the country’s acute economic downturn. The rules for court auction differ in the states.\n\n"}
{"id": "11275361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11275361", "title": "Courting Justice", "text": "Courting Justice\n\nCourting Justice is a non-fiction book by David Boies, published in 2004 by Miramax Books.\n\nThis book covers some of the cases of high-profile attorney David Boies, recounted by Boies in memoir-like style. These cases include Bush v. Gore (2000), United States v. Microsoft, and New York Yankees v. Major League Baseball.\n\n"}
{"id": "28877487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28877487", "title": "Deferred action", "text": "Deferred action\n\nIn United States administrative law, deferred action is an immigration status which the executive branch can grant to illegal immigrants. This does not give them legal status, but can indefinitely delay their deportation. Deferred action is an exercise of the executive branch's enforcement discretion and was first publicly defined in a 1975 administrative guidance document published by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.\n\nMajor grants of deferred action include:\n\n"}
{"id": "57275837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57275837", "title": "Deputy Commissioner (Bangladesh)", "text": "Deputy Commissioner (Bangladesh)\n\nDeputy Commissioner (popularly abbreviated to \"DC\") or District Magistrate is a chief administrative and revenue officer of a district or an administrative sub-unit of a division. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure of Bangladesh, the Government shall appoint as many persons as it thinks fit to be Executive Magistrates and shall appoint one of them to be the District Magistrate.\n\nThe term District Magistrate is used in the Criminal procedure code to denote the principal executive magistrate of the district. However, after 1960, the district magistrate term came to be redesignated throughout the country as Deputy Commissioner or DC. During the early year, before Bangladesh era, the deputy commissioner's office used to be concerned with internal security and revenue administration. Over the time, however, the office has become increasingly occupied with the general welfare of the people in the district. The Deputy Commissioner is a representative of the Government in the field of law and order, land administration, disaster management and general and local elections. The deputy commissioner works under the general guidance and supervision of the Divisional Commissioner. They are under the administrative control of the Cabinet Division although their posting and transfer are made by the Ministry of Public Administration. The deputy commissioners are drawn from the members of the Bangladesh Civil Service (Administration).\n"}
{"id": "43053648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43053648", "title": "Don Hathaway", "text": "Don Hathaway\n\nDonald Edgar Hathaway, Sr., known as Don Hathaway (born October 20, 1928), is a businessman and retired politician from his native Shreveport, Louisiana. From 1970 to 1978, Hathaway, a Democrat, was his city's last public works commissioner, an office abolished effective November 1978 with the implementation of a new city charter. From 1980 to 2000, he was the sheriff of Caddo Parish in the northwestern corner of his state.\n\nHathaway is the younger and only surviving son of Jessie Oberdorfer and Oscar Clayton Hathaway, Sr.\n\nDon Hathaway attended the Alexander Grammar School in Shreveport through the seventh grade and then enrolled at St. John's College (later called St. John's Military High School), where he served as a lieutenant during his sophomore year. He graduated in 1946 from the public C. E. Byrd High School in Shreveport, at which he lettered in basketball and baseball. In 2000, he was inducted into the Byrd High School Hall of Fame, along with the songwriter Tillman Franks and B. L. \"Buddy\" Shaw, a former Byrd principal who served in both houses of the Louisiana State Legislature. Hathaway served in the United States Navy and later retired as a lieutenant.\n\nHathaway subsequently was the student body president of Louisiana Tech University in Ruston, from which in 1951, he received a degree in Business Administration. Hathaway is a former member, officer, and president of the Louisiana Tech Alumni Association and was the original secretary-treasurer in 1962 of the Louisiana Tech Foundation and the second president, whose membership included later state circuit court Judge Charles A. Marvin.\n\nIn 2012, Hathaway was part of the fundraising campaign for the renovation of the floor and the renaming of the Robert \"Scotty\" Robertson Memorial Gymnasium, an alternate practice facility for the Bulldogs and Lady Techsters basketball teams, named for the eight-time Hall of Famer, Coach Scotty Robertson.\n\nHathaway was an active member and president of the Shreveport Junior Chamber International, often called the Jaycees. He is a former Chamber of Commerce director. He has been affiliated with the American Legion and the Forty and Eight veterans organizations as well as Kiwanis International. He is a long-term member of the Noel Memorial United Methodist Church in Shreveport.\n\nAfter his term as sheriff, Hathaway began working in commercial real estate business, affiliated with Walker-Alley & Associates in Shreveport. He was also in the insurance business in Shreveport.\n\nHathaway is married to the former Betty Lou Moore, formerly of Minden in Webster Parish. They have three children.\n\nAfter working during the 1950s and early 1960s in insurance and investment banking, Hathaway joined the staff of the Caddo Parish Police Jury in 1962. He was named secretary-treasurer of the jury on May 10, 1967. The police jury, the traditional governing body of the parish, was renamed in 1984 as the Caddo Parish Commission.\n\nHathaway stepped down as police jury secretary-treasurer in 1970 to contest the office of Shreveport public works commissioner under the then commission form of city government. He replaced an interim commissioner on the city council who had taken office on January 1, 1969, following the resignation of the 34-year incumbent, H. Lane Mitchell, who was caught up in a 1971 scandal involving four counts of theft in the office which he had already vacated.\n\nHathaway was one of five citywide elected commissioners who acted in both executive and legislative roles in the governance of Shreveport municipal affairs for an eight-year period. He presided over the public works department as an executive and cast a single vote on the Shreveport City Council, when it in met in public session. His administration of the office coincided with that of Mayor Calhoun Allen, who was technically the \"commissioner of administration\". Hathaway's council colleagues included fellow Democrat Public Utilities Commissioner William \"Bill\" Collins, and after Collins resigned in 1977, Billy Guin, a Republican who served for the remaining year-and-a-half in that position, as well as Finance Commissioner George A. Burton, the first Republican to hold Shreveport municipal office since Reconstruction, and Public Safety Commissioner George W. D'Artois, who was forced from office in the summer of 1976 in another corruption scandal.\n\nUnder pressure from the business community, the city council unanimously announced in the spring of 1976 that it would investigate Commissioner D'Artois regarding a series of corruption cases in the public safety department. When public opinion swung against the council members for \"investigating themselves\", Mayor Allen called for the probe to be turned over to the office of Attorney General William J. Guste. Allen and D'Artois were previously allies on the council, but Hathaway had often opposed them both. When Allen called for D'Artois to step down from office voluntarily while the state probe proceeded, Hathaway said that he thought that it made little difference whether D'Artois remained in office while the investigation was underway because he believed that Guste's staff would conduct a thorough, fair investigation. Guste's investigators soon indicated the probe would go beyond the public safety department, with at Mayor Allen and Utilities Commissioner Collins as well. D'Artois did not step down voluntarily but was forced to resign on August 6, 1976, when he was arrested for conspiracy to murder his former advertising specialist, Jim Leslie of Shreveport. He died of complications of heart surgery ten months later in June 1977 in San Antonio, Texas. Many unanswered questions remained, such as what role if any D'Artois had in the assassination of Jim Leslie.\n\nThe interest group, Blacks United for Lasting Leadership, Inc., an African-American civil rights organization in Shreveport, filed a class action lawsuit against the City of Shreveport to force an end to the commission form of government. In 1974, blacks constituted 32 percent of the Shreveport population, but no African American had served on the city council, which since 1910 had consisted of five commissioners, including the mayor. By the time of the 2010 U.S. Census forty years later, Shreveport was nearly 55 percent black in population. BULL alleged that the inherent at-large feature of the commission government operated unconstitutionally to dilute the votes of blacks. The United States District Court for the Western District of Louisiana agreed and declared the commission government unconstitutional under the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution. The decision was affirmed in March 1978 by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans.\n\nShreveport hence switched to the mayor-council form of government with the fast-approaching 1978 elections, when Commissioner Don Hathaway ran a strong but losing race for mayor to then automobile dealer, William T. \"Bill\" Hanna, who made issue that he was an \"outsider\" to the troubles that had befallen City Hall, now called Government Plaza, during the preceding term of office. Utilities Commissioner Billy Guin was another unsuccessful candidate for mayor in the September 16 nonpartisan blanket primary, also known as the jungle primary.\n\nDays after his defeat for mayor, on November 21, 1978, Hathaway joined Mayor-elect Hanna, outgoing Mayor Allen, and outgoing Commissioner Guin for the dedication of a new Exhibition Hall on the riverfront, a structure later named in Allen's honor, now known as StageWorks of Louisiana.\n\nHathaway soon rebounded politically upon his election on December 9, 1979 as the Caddo Parish sheriff and \"ex officio\" tax collector. The one-term incumbent, Harold Monroe Terry (1925-2016), did not seek reelection, and Hathaway defeated his fellow Democrat Jim Adger, an agri-businessman, in a runoff contest, 55.6 to 44.4 percent. The election corresponded with the narrow victory of Republican David C. Treen as governor. Hathaway was reelected thereafter with little opposition thereafter through his retirement in July 2000. In his last election in October 1995, Hathway polled nearly two thirds of the ballots cast against two opponents, a fellow Democrat, Jerry Henderson, and Donnie Ray O'Briant, a Republican. The sheriff in Caddo Parish frequently serves multiple terms; Hathaway's predecessor, Harold Monroe Terry (born September 1925), is the exception. Terry served only one term from 1976 to 1980, the shortest tenure of any Caddo Parish sheriff in the 20th century.\n\nUnder Hathaway, the sheriff's department increased over two decades from 150 to 600 deputies; the budget, from $8 million to $32 million annually. He introduced programs to assist deputies enrolled in higher education programs. He altered recruiting and hiring to incorporate background checks and polygraphs. Homer C. Bryant, Jr. (1924-1999), a Shreveport native and Purple Heart recipient during World War II, was Hathaway's major in charge of criminal investigations; a polygraph examiner, he was particularly known for his expertise and dedication to law enforcement.\n\nHathaway standardized compensation and introduced incentive pay. Hathaway brought all divisions of the office into three functional components: (1) Administration, (2) Detention, and (3) Operations. He computerized the tax division, record keeping, and collections departments. He doubled the number of deputies on patrol. He created or expanded already existing special teams for hazardous materials, special response, search and rescue, and helicopter monitoring. He established substations at strategic locations.\n\nIn 1982, Caddo sheriff's deputies responded to a call of an abandoned 36-hour-old infant boy weighing seven pounds, wrapped only in a towel, and in excellent condition. He was found in a carport at a house on Red Oak Lane along with an attached note asking that good parents be found. The child was taken to LSU Medical Center pediatric services for transition to proper authorities. Hathaway said, \"We probably have to assume the baby was not hospital-delivered, if only because hospitals [then] usually keep newborns longer than thirty-six hours. On the other hand, if the baby were home-delivered and without the help of a doctor, there would be no record of birth.\" Chief deputy David Milton Almond (1937-2003) said that the abandonment was only the second such case that he had witnessed in his then seventeen years in law enforcement.\n\nIn 1987, Hathaway announced that his deputies engaging in undercover drug purchases had obtained thirty warrants and made at least seventeen arrests. All suspects were booked with distributing such substances as amphetamines, marijuana, cocaine, and valium. One suspect was charged with the distribution of a false representation of a controlled dangerous substance.\n\nIn 1983, Hathaway had introduced the canine corps for use in narcotics detection. In 1998, Caddo deputies with the help of drug-sniffing dogs uncovered two bags at the Greyhound bus station in Shreveport containing $310,000 and $20,000 in narcotics. A Pensacola man caught by random search with $4,000 in his possession confessed to owning the two unclaimed bags. Hathaway said the $314,000 was \"by far the largest amount of money we've picked up in this type of investigation.\" Sixty percent of the funds went to sheriff' department coffers.\n\nIn 1983, Sheriff Hathaway was part of a contingent of six hundred supporters of Edwin Edwards who joined Edwards in a celebratory tour of France and Belgium. The tab of $10,000 per person was used to retire Edwards's 1983 campaign debt of $4.2 million. Edwards had just scored his third term as governor by unseating the Republican David C. Treen. On a train in Paris, Hathaway was presented a drawing on a menu of an oak tree by the Louisiana artist George Rodrigue before Rodrigue became famous with his blue dog symbol. In 2004, Rodrigue came to Shreveport with incoming Governor Kathleen Blanco and made an appearance at the Louisiana State Exhibit Museum, where he autographed Hathaway's menu from more than twenty years earlier.\n\nIn 1984, in a celebration of Freddie Spencer's victory the previous year in the 500cc Grand Prix World Championship in motorcycle racing, Hathaway made Spencer an \"honorary deputy\" as the Shreveort native returned home for \"Freddie Spencer Day\", declared by Mayor John Brennan Hussey.\n\nAs sheriff, Hathaway found himself frequently at odds with his two former employers as police jury treasurer and as public works commissioner, the Caddo Parish Commission and the City of Shreveport, in regard to the financial cost of housing inmates at the Caddo Correctional Institute, a penal farm at Spring Ridge near Keithville in southern Caddo Parish known for a high rate of unrest and inmate escape. On May 17, 1992, deputy Darren Wayne Hill claimed serious brain injuries sustained during a riot at CCI. Hill hence filed suit against Hathaway on the grounds that the sheriff was negligent in maintaining order at the facility. However, Hill never won a judgment through the Louisiana Circuit Court of Appeal for the Second District in Shreveport because of procedural errors in his claim. Hill had sought financial relief through the Sheriff's Pension and Relief Fund as well as damages.\n\nOriginally, Sheriff Hathaway was responsible only for the jail within the courthouse in Shreveport. On April 6, 1982, however, the sheriff's department assumed full control of the penal farm from the former police jury, the predecessor of the Caddo Parish Commission. Hathaway renamed the facility the Caddo Detention Center. In time, Hathaway was overrun with the increasing number of inmates and the associated rising costs to shelter them. Hathaway said that CDC could not adequately accommodate some 375 inmates, more than two thirds of whom were blacks, with some \"murderers and rapists\". Hathaway also said the community needed adequate psychiatric services because numerous inmates were mental cases in need of medical treatment. Early in 1982, a 17-year-old bank robbery suspect, Jerry Anderson, leaped eight stories to his death while in custody at LSU Medical Center in Shreveport. Questions arose as to whether the youth was depressed or having a seizure. The sheriff's department investigation determined that young Anderson was suicidal. The suspect was in leg chains and under guard by a private security firm, rather than a sheriff's deputy. Hathaway said the department had too few deputies to guard individual prisoners and had to hire outside assistance in such cases.\n\nOn November 23, 1988, two inmates attacked the 26-year-old deputy, known only as \"Mick\", who was on guard at CDC in the section called \"West Max\" after he led a group of prisoners outside for their exercise routine. The men were taken to an area called the \"bullpen\", which was reinforced with razor wire to lessen the success of escape attempts. Under a dead-lock head-lock, the deputy barely escaped with his life, but security personnel came to his defense in time. The attack was touched off when the deputy told an inmate that he could not wear a blue bandana on his head, a symbol of gangs. The incident was one of numerous reported cases of violence in the CDC. Mick reported that his family safety was in jeopardy for a time because one of the inmates seized his paycheck which happened to be in his pocket. The check revealed the deputy's family address.\n\nIn a court case, the State of Louisiana ruled that the Caddo Parish Commission was primarily responsible for the maintenance cost of the CDC prisoners, rather than the City of Shreveport or the sheriff's department. In 1995, the detention center ceased housing parish prisoners after the opening on Forum Drive in north Shreveport of a new 1,070-bed facility called Caddo Correctional Center, a structure that Hathaway had urged since he became sheriff. Still operational, this jail is designed to manage a large number of inmates with relatively few personnel. CCC is the largest facility of its kind in the tri-state area of Louisiana, Texas, and Arkansas. In 1999, Hathaway was sued by a CCC inmate, Charles Barr, who alleged that he slipped and fell on the wet floor of his cell, which caused a personal injury that required major medical treatment. Barr's \"inmate grievance\" was dismissed on the grounds that his injury was a result of diabetes. Hathaway prevailed in the ruling from the Second District Appeals Court by showing that the in-house grievance procedure is not subject to judicial review and that Barr did not seek redress through tort action as required in such circumstances.\n\nIn 1990, Hathaway brought to Shreveport the Drug Abuse Resistance Education program, first established by Daryl Gates, the chief of the Los Angeles Police Department from 1978 to 1992. Hathaway started a \"Senior Citizen Academy\" in which older residents, many foster grandparents, completed a 14-hour curriculum that gave them an overview of the operations of the sheriff's office as well as practical safety tips.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1996, Hathaway was president of the Northwest Law Enforcement Planning Agency. In 2000, shortly after he left the sheriff's office, the Northwest agency honored Hathaway for his twenty years of leadership in the department. The award was presented by neighboring Bossier Parish Sheriff Larry Deen.\n\nFrom 1996 to 1997, Hathaway was the president of the National Sheriffs' Association, one of only six sheriffs in Louisiana since the creation of the organization in 1938 to have held that position, as of 2014.\n\nIn 1995, questions arose when the Caddo Sheriff's department under Hathaway denied a gun permit to a Shreveport liquor store clerk, Philip Russell Coleman. When Coleman was informed of the sheriff's department decision, he told the pawn shop owner where he intended to buy a weapon that he would go to see the deputies in an attempt to resolve the matter, which Coleman assumed was a \"mistake\". Before Coleman could get his weapon permit, however, he was shot to death in a holdup. Hathaway said that there was apparently justification for initially denying Coleman's application but that when Coleman came to the office, his application was approved. National radio commentator Paul Harvey aired the Coleman story on one of his broadcasts. Many used the Coleman case to show the unintended consequences of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993, which requires a waiting period for background checks for citizens seeking to purchase handguns.\n\nThe Donald Hathaway Collection, consisting mostly of photo albums and scrapbooks from the period 1970 to 2000, is available through Louisiana State University in Shreveport.\n"}
{"id": "364510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364510", "title": "Executioner", "text": "Executioner\n\nA judicial executioner, also known as a \"public executioner\", is a person who officially inflicts capital punishment ordered by the state or other legal authority, which was known in feudal terminology as high justice.\n\nThe executioner was usually presented with a warrant authorizing or ordering him to \"execute\" the sentence. The warrant protects the executioner from the charge of murder. Common terms for executioners derived from forms of capital punishment—though they often also performed other physical punishments—include \"hangman\" (hanging) and \"headsman\" (beheading). In the military, the role of executioner was performed by a soldier, such as the \"provost\". A common stereotype of an executioner is a hooded medieval or absolutist executioner. Symbolic or real, executioners were rarely hooded, and not robed in all black; hoods were only used if an executioner's identity and anonymity were to be preserved from the public. As Hilary Mantel has pointed out in her 2018 Reith Lectures, \"Why would an executioner wear a mask? Everybody knew who he was\". \n\nWhile this task can be occasional in nature, it can be carried out in the line of more general duty by an officer of the court, the police, prison staff, or even the military. A special case is the tradition of the Roman \"fustuarium\", continued in forms of running the gauntlet, where the culprit receives his punishment from the hands of the comrades gravely harmed by his crime, e.g. for failing in vital sentinel duty or stealing from a ship's limited food supply.\n\nMany executioners were professional specialists who traveled a circuit or region performing their duty, because executions were rarely very numerous. Within this region, a resident executioner would also administer non-lethal physical punishments, or apply torture. In medieval Europe, to the end of the early modern period, executioners were often knackers, since pay from the rare executions was not enough to live off.\n\nThe term is extended to administrators of severe physical punishment that is not prescribed to kill, but which may result in death.\n\nExecutions in France (using the guillotine since the French Revolution) persisted until 1977, and the French Republic had an official executioner; the last one, Marcel Chevalier, served until the formal abolition of capital punishment in 1981.\n\nIn Western Europe and its colonies, executioners were often shunned by their neighbours, with their work as knackers also disreputable. In Alexandre Dumas' \"The Three Musketeers\" and in the film \"La veuve de Saint-Pierre\" (\"The Widow of Saint-Peter\"), minor character executioners are ostracized by the villagers.\n\nThe profession of executioner sometimes ran through a family, especially in France, where the Sanson family provided six executioners between 1688 and 1847 and the Deibler dynasty provided five between 1879 and its 1981 abolition. The latter's members included Louis Deibler, his son Anatole, Anatole's nephew Jules-Henri Desfourneaux, his other nephew André Obrecht, and André's nephew Marcel Chevalier.\n\nIn Britain, the most notable dynasty was the Pierrepoints, who provided three executioners between 1902 and 1956 – Henry, his brother Thomas, and Henry's son Albert. Unlike in France and many other European countries, far from being shunned, British executioners such as William Marwood, James Berry, Albert Pierrepoint, and Harry Allen were widely known and respected by the public.\n\nIn Japan, executioners have been held in contempt as part of the burakumin class (today executions in Japan are not carried out by professional executioners, but by prison guards). In \"Memories of Silk and Straw\", by Junichi Saga, one of the families surveyed in the Japanese village of Tsuchiura is that of an executioner family (\"The Last Executioner\", p. 54). This family does suffer social isolation, even though the family is somewhat well-off financially.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, only Romani could be executioners. Executioners were seen as \"damned\" people and even their graveyards were separate from public graveyards. There were no inscriptions on executioner tombstones, and usually uncarved and unpolished simple rough stones were used. One of the oldest and largest \"executioner graveyards\" is in the Eyüp district in Istanbul. After the republican revolution in Turkey, executions continued to be performed by Romani executioners. This situation continued until the abolition of capital punishment in Turkey.\n\nThe lack of societal disregard for executioners in places like North America may be attributed to the infrequency of executions in modern times, and to the anonymity provided by a decrease in their public showings.\n\n"}
{"id": "31656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31656", "title": "Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution", "text": "Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution\n\nThe Fourth Amendment (Amendment IV) to the United States Constitution is part of the Bill of Rights. It prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures. In addition, it sets requirements for issuing warrants: warrants must be issued by a judge or magistrate, justified by probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and must particularly describe the place to be searched and the persons or things to be seized.\n\nFourth Amendment case law deals with three main issues: what government activities are \"searches\" and \"seizures,\" what constitutes probable cause to conduct searches and seizures, and how violations of Fourth Amendment rights should be addressed. Early court decisions limited the amendment's scope to physical intrusion of property or persons, but with \"Katz v. United States\" (1967), the Supreme Court held that its protections extend to intrusions on the privacy of individuals as well as to physical locations. A warrant is needed for most search and seizure activities, but the Court has carved out a series of exceptions for consent searches, motor vehicle searches, evidence in plain view, exigent circumstances, border searches, and other situations.\n\nThe exclusionary rule is one way the amendment is enforced. Established in \"Weeks v. United States\" (1914), this rule holds that evidence obtained as a result of a Fourth Amendment violation is generally inadmissible at criminal trials. Evidence discovered as a later result of an illegal search may also be inadmissible as \"fruit of the poisonous tree\", unless it inevitably would have been discovered by legal means.\n\nThe Fourth Amendment was adopted in response to the abuse of the writ of assistance, a type of general search warrant issued by the British government, and a major source of tension in pre-Revolutionary America. The Fourth Amendment was introduced in Congress in 1789 by James Madison, along with the other amendments in the Bill of Rights, in response to Anti-Federalist objections to the new Constitution. Congress submitted the amendment to the states on September 28, 1789. By December 15, 1791, the necessary three-fourths of the states had ratified it. On March 1, 1792, Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson announced that it was officially part of the Constitution.\n\nBecause the Bill of Rights did not initially apply to state or local governments, and federal criminal investigations were less common in the first century of the nation's history, there is little significant case law for the Fourth Amendment before the 20th century. The amendment was held to apply to state and local governments in \"Mapp v. Ohio\" (1961) via the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nLike many other areas of American law, the Fourth Amendment finds its roots in English legal doctrine. In \"Semayne's case\" (1604), Sir Edward Coke famously stated: \"The house of every one is to him as his castle and fortress, as well for his defence against injury and violence as for his repose.\" \"Semayne's Case\" acknowledged that the King did not have unbridled authority to intrude on his subjects' dwellings, but recognized that government agents were permitted to conduct searches and seizures under certain conditions when their purpose was lawful and a warrant had been obtained.\n\nThe 1760s saw a growth in the intensity of litigation against state officers, who, using general warrants, conducted raids in search of materials relating to John Wilkes's publications attacking both government policies and the King himself. The most famous of these cases involved John Entick, whose home was forcibly entered by the King's Messenger Nathan Carrington, along with others, pursuant to a warrant issued by George Montagu-Dunk, 2nd Earl of Halifax authorizing them \"to make strict and diligent search for ... the author, or one concerned in the writing of several weekly very seditious papers entitled, 'The Monitor or British Freeholder, No 257, 357, 358, 360, 373, 376, 378, and 380,'\" and seized printed charts, pamphlets and other materials. Entick filed suit in \"Entick v Carrington\", argued before the Court of King's Bench in 1765. Charles Pratt, 1st Earl Camden ruled that both the search and the seizure were unlawful, as the warrant authorized the seizure of \"all\" of Entick's papers—not just the criminal ones—and as the warrant lacked probable cause to even justify the search. By holding that \"[O]ur law holds the property of every man so sacred, that no man can set his foot upon his neighbour's close without his leave\", \"Entick\" established the English precedent that the executive is limited in intruding on private property by common law.\n\nHomes in Colonial America, on the other hand, did not enjoy the same sanctity as their British counterparts, because legislation had been explicitly written so as to enable enforcement of British revenue-gathering policies on customs; until 1750, in fact, the only type of warrant defined in the handbooks for justices of the peace was the general warrant. During what scholar William Cuddihy called the \"colonial epidemic of general searches\", the authorities possessed almost unlimited power to search for anything at any time, with very little oversight.\nIn 1756, the colony of Massachusetts barred the use of general warrants. This represented the first law in American history curtailing the use of seizure power. Its creation largely stemmed from the great public outcry over the Excise Act of 1754, which gave tax collectors unlimited powers to interrogate colonists concerning their use of goods subject to customs. The act also permitted the use of a general warrant known as a writ of assistance, allowing tax collectors to search the homes of colonists and seize \"prohibited and uncustomed\" goods.\nA crisis erupted over the writs of assistance on December 27, 1760, when the news of King George II's death on October 23 arrived in Boston. All writs automatically expired six months after the death of the King, and would have had to be re-issued by George III, the new king, to remain valid.\n\nIn mid-January 1761, a group of over 50 merchants represented by James Otis petitioned the court to have hearings on the issue. During the five-hour hearing on February 23, 1761, Otis vehemently denounced British colonial policies, including their sanction of general warrants and writs of assistance. However, the court ruled against Otis. Future US President John Adams, who was present in the courtroom when Otis spoke, viewed these events as \"the spark in which originated the American Revolution.\"\n\nBecause of the name he had made for himself in attacking the writs, Otis was elected to the Massachusetts colonial legislature and helped pass legislation requiring that special writs of assistance be \"granted by any judge or justice of the peace upon information under oath by any officer of the customs\" and barring all other writs. The governor overturned the legislation, finding it contrary to English law and parliamentary sovereignty.\n\nSeeing the danger general warrants presented, the Virginia Declaration of Rights (1776) explicitly forbade the use of general warrants. This prohibition became a precedent for the Fourth Amendment:\n\nArticle XIV of the Massachusetts Declaration of Rights, written by John Adams and enacted in 1780 as part of the Massachusetts Constitution, added the requirement that all searches must be \"reasonable,\" and served as another basis for the language of the Fourth Amendment:\n\nBy 1784, eight state constitutions contained a provision against general warrants.\n\nAfter several years of comparatively weak government under the Articles of Confederation, a Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia proposed a new constitution on September 17, 1787, featuring a stronger chief executive and other changes. George Mason, a Constitutional Convention delegate and the drafter of Virginia's Declaration of Rights, proposed that a bill of rights listing and guaranteeing civil liberties be included. Other delegates—including future Bill of Rights drafter James Madison—disagreed, arguing that existing state guarantees of civil liberties were sufficient and that any attempt to enumerate individual rights risked the implication that other, unnamed rights were unprotected. After a brief debate, Mason's proposal was defeated by a unanimous vote of the state delegations.\n\nFor the constitution to be ratified, however, nine of the thirteen states were required to approve it in state conventions. Opposition to ratification (\"Anti-Federalism\") was partly based on the Constitution's lack of adequate guarantees for civil liberties. Supporters of the Constitution in states where popular sentiment was against ratification (including Virginia, Massachusetts, and New York) successfully proposed that their state conventions both ratify the Constitution and call for the addition of a bill of rights. Four state conventions proposed some form of restriction on the authority of the new federal government to conduct searches.\nIn the 1st United States Congress, following the state legislatures' request, James Madison proposed twenty constitutional amendments based on state bills of rights and English sources such as the Bill of Rights 1689, including an amendment requiring probable cause for government searches. Congress reduced Madison's proposed twenty amendments to twelve, with modifications to Madison's language about searches and seizures. The final language was submitted to the states for ratification on September 25, 1789.\n\nBy the time the Bill of Rights was submitted to the states for ratification, opinions had shifted in both parties. Many Federalists, who had previously opposed a Bill of Rights, now supported the Bill as a means of silencing the Anti-Federalists' most effective criticism. Many Anti-Federalists, in contrast, now opposed it, realizing that the Bill's adoption would greatly lessen the chances of a second constitutional convention, which they desired. Anti-Federalists such as Richard Henry Lee also argued that the Bill left the most objectionable portions of the Constitution, such as the federal judiciary and direct taxation, intact.\n\nOn November 20, 1789, New Jersey ratified eleven of the twelve amendments, including the Fourth. On December 19, 1789, December 22, 1789, and January 19, 1790, respectively, Maryland, North Carolina, and South Carolina ratified all twelve amendments. On January 25 and 28, 1790, respectively, New Hampshire and Delaware ratified eleven of the Bill's twelve amendments, including the Fourth. This brought the total of ratifying states to six of the required ten, but the process stalled in other states: Connecticut and Georgia found a Bill of Rights unnecessary and so refused to ratify, while Massachusetts ratified most of the amendments, but failed to send official notice to the Secretary of State that it had done so. (All three states would later ratify the Bill of Rights for sesquicentennial celebrations in 1939.)\n\nIn February through June 1790, New York, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island each ratified eleven of the amendments, including the Fourth. Virginia initially postponed its debate, but after Vermont was admitted to the Union in 1791, the total number of states needed for ratification rose to eleven. Vermont ratified on November 3, 1791, approving all twelve amendments, and Virginia finally followed on December 15, 1791. Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson announced the adoption of the ten successfully ratified amendments on March 1, 1792.\n\nThe Bill of Rights originally only restricted the federal government, and went through a long initial phase of \"judicial dormancy\"; in the words of historian Gordon S. Wood, \"After ratification, most Americans promptly forgot about the first ten amendments to the Constitution.\" Federal jurisdiction regarding criminal law was narrow until the late 19th century when the Interstate Commerce Act and Sherman Antitrust Act were passed. As federal criminal jurisdiction expanded to include other areas such as narcotics, more questions about the Fourth Amendment came to the Supreme Court. The U.S. Supreme Court responded to these questions by outlining the fundamental purpose of the amendment as guaranteeing \"the privacy, dignity and security of persons against certain arbitrary and invasive acts by officers of the Government, without regard to whether the government actor is investigating crime or performing another function\". In \"Mapp v. Ohio\" (1961), the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Fourth Amendment applies to the states by way of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nFourth Amendment case law deals with three central issues: what government activities constitute \"search\" and \"seizure\"; what constitutes probable cause for these actions; how violations of Fourth Amendment rights should be addressed.\n\nThe Fourth Amendment typically requires \"a neutral and detached authority interposed between the police and the public\", and it is offended by \"general warrants\" and laws that allows searches to be conducted \"indiscriminately and without regard to their connection with [a] crime under investigation\", for the \"basic purpose of the Fourth Amendment, which is enforceable against the States through the Fourteenth, through its prohibition of 'unreasonable' searches and seizures is to safeguard the privacy and security of individuals against arbitrary invasions by governmental officials.\"\n\nThe Fourth Amendment has been held to mean that a search or an arrest generally requires a judicially sanctioned warrant, because the basic rule under the Fourth Amendment is that arrests and \"searches conducted outside the judicial process, without prior approval by judge or magistrate, are \"per se\" unreasonable\". In order for such a warrant to be considered reasonable, it must be supported by probable cause and be limited in scope according to specific information supplied by a person (usually a law enforcement officer) who has sworn by it and is therefore accountable to the issuing court. The Supreme Court further held in \"Chandler v. Miller\" (1997): \"To be reasonable under the Fourth Amendment, a search ordinarily must be based on individualized suspicion of wrongdoing. But particularized exceptions to the main rule are sometimes warranted based on 'special needs, beyond the normal need for law enforcement'. … When such 'special needs' are alleged, courts must undertake a context-specific inquiry, examining closely the competing private and public interests advanced by the parties.\" The amendment applies to governmental searches and seizures, but not those done by private citizens or organizations who are not acting on behalf of a government. In \"Ontario v. Quon\" (2010), the Court held the amendment to also apply to the government when acting as an employer, ruling that a government could search a police officer's text messages that were sent over that government's pager.\n\nOne threshold question in the Fourth Amendment jurisprudence is whether a \"search\" has occurred. Initial Fourth Amendment case law hinged on a citizen's property rights—that is, when the government physically intrudes on \"persons, houses, papers, or effects\" for the purpose of obtaining information, a \"search\" within the original meaning of the Fourth Amendment has occurred. Early 20th-century Court decisions, such as \"Olmstead v. United States\" (1928), held that Fourth Amendment rights applied in cases of physical intrusion, but not to other forms of police surveillance (e.g., wiretaps). In \"Silverman v. United States\" (1961), the Court stated of the amendment that \"at the very core stands the right of a man to retreat into his own home and there be free from unreasonable governmental intrusion\".\n\nFourth Amendment protections expanded significantly with \"Katz v. United States\" (1967). In \"Katz\", the Supreme Court expanded that focus to embrace an individual's right to privacy, and ruled that a search had occurred when the government wiretapped a telephone booth using a microphone attached to the outside of the glass. While there was no physical intrusion into the booth, the Court reasoned that: 1) Katz, by entering the booth and shutting the door behind him, had exhibited his expectation that \"the words he utters into the mouthpiece will not be broadcast to the world\"; and 2) society believes that his expectation was reasonable. Justice Potter Stewart wrote in the majority opinion that \"the Fourth Amendment protects people, not places\". A \"search\" occurs for purposes of the Fourth Amendment when the government violates a person's \"reasonable expectation of privacy\". Katz's reasonable expectation of privacy thus provided the basis to rule that the government's intrusion, though electronic rather than physical, was a search covered by the Fourth Amendment, and thus necessitated a warrant. The Court said that it was not recognizing any general right to privacy in the Fourth Amendment, and that this wiretap could have been authorized if proper procedures had been followed.\n\nThis decision in \"Katz\" was later developed into the now commonly used two-prong test, adopted in \"Smith v. Maryland\" (1979), for determining whether a search has occurred for purposes of the Fourth Amendment:\n\nThe Supreme Court has held that the Fourth Amendment does not apply to information that is voluntarily shared with third parties. In \"Smith\", the Court held individuals have no \"legitimate expectation of privacy\" regarding the telephone numbers they dial because they knowingly give that information to telephone companies when they dial a number. However, under \"Carpenter v. United States\" (2018), individuals do have a reasonable expectation of privacy regarding cell phone records that would reveal where that person had traveled over many months and so law enforcement must get a search warrant before obtaining such records.\n\nFollowing \"Katz\", the vast majority of Fourth Amendment search cases have turned on the right to privacy, but in \"United States v. Jones\" (2012), the Court ruled that the \"Katz\" standard did not replace earlier case law, but rather, has supplemented it. In \"Jones\", law enforcement officers had attached a GPS device on a car's exterior without Jones' knowledge or consent. The Court concluded that Jones was a bailee to the car, and so had a property interest in the car. Therefore, since the intrusion on the vehicle—a common law trespass—was for the purpose of obtaining information, the Court ruled that it was a search under the Fourth Amendment. The Court used similar \"trespass\" reasoning in \"Florida v. Jardines\" (2013), to rule that bringing a drug detection dog to sniff at the front door of a home was a search.\n\nIn certain situations, law enforcement may perform a search when they have a reasonable suspicion of criminal activity, even if it falls short of probable cause necessary for an arrest. Under \"Terry v. Ohio\" (1968), law enforcement officers are permitted to conduct a limited warrantless search on a level of suspicion less than probable cause under certain circumstances. In \"Terry\", the Supreme Court ruled that when a police officer witnesses \"unusual conduct\" that leads that officer to reasonably believe \"that criminal activity may be afoot\", that the suspicious person has a weapon \"and\" that the person is presently dangerous to the officer or others, the officer may conduct a \"pat-down search\" (or \"frisk\") to determine whether the person is carrying a weapon. This detention and search is known as a \"Terry\" stop. To conduct a frisk, officers must be able to point to specific and articulable facts which, taken together with rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant their actions. As established in \"Florida v. Royer\" (1983), such a search must be temporary, and questioning must be limited to the purpose of the stop (e.g., officers who stop a person because they have reasonable suspicion to believe that the person was driving a stolen car, cannot, after confirming that it is not stolen, compel the person to answer questions about anything else, such as the possession of contraband).\n\nThe Fourth Amendment proscribes unreasonable seizure of any person, person's home (including its curtilage) or personal property without a warrant. A seizure of property occurs when there is \"some meaningful interference with an individual's possessory interests in that property\", such as when police officers take personal property away from an owner to use as evidence, or when they participate in an eviction. The amendment also protects against unreasonable seizure of persons, including a brief detention.\n\nA seizure does not occur just because the government questions an individual in a public place. The exclusionary rule would not bar voluntary answers to such questions from being offered into evidence in a subsequent criminal prosecution. The person is not being seized if his freedom of movement is not restrained. The government may not detain an individual even momentarily without reasonable, objective grounds, with few exceptions. His refusal to listen or answer does not by itself furnish such grounds.\n\nIn \"United States v. Mendenhall\" (1980), the Court held that a person is seized only when, by means of physical force \"or\" show of authority, his freedom of movement is restrained and, in the circumstances surrounding the incident, a reasonable person would believe that he was not free to leave. In \"Florida v. Bostick\" (1991), the Court ruled that as long as the police do not convey a message that compliance with their requests is required, the police contact is a \"citizen encounter\" that falls outside the protections of the Fourth Amendment. If a person remains free to disregard questioning by the government, there has been no seizure and therefore no intrusion upon the person's privacy under the Fourth Amendment.\n\nWhen a person is arrested and taken into police custody, he has been seized (i.e., a reasonable person who is handcuffed and placed in the back of a police car would not think they were free to leave). A person subjected to a routine traffic stop on the other hand, has been seized, but is not \"arrested\" because traffic stops are a relatively brief encounter and are more analogous to a \"Terry\" stop than to a formal arrest. If a person is not under suspicion of illegal behavior, a law enforcement official is not allowed to place an individual under arrest simply because this person does not wish to state his identity, provided specific state regulations do not specify this to be the case. A search incidental to an arrest that is not permissible under state law does not violate the Fourth Amendment, so long as the arresting officer has probable cause. In \"Maryland v. King\" (2013), the Court upheld the constitutionality of police swabbing for DNA upon arrests for serious crimes, along the same reasoning that allows police to take fingerprints or photographs of those they arrest and detain.\n\nThe government may not detain an individual even momentarily without reasonable and articulable suspicion, with a few exceptions. In \"Delaware v. Prouse\" (1979), the Court ruled an officer has made an illegal seizure when he stops an automobile and detains the driver in order to check his driver's license and the registration of the automobile, unless the officer has articulable and reasonable suspicion that a motorist is unlicensed or that an automobile is not registered, or either the vehicle or an occupant is otherwise subject to seizure for violation of law.\n\nWhere society's need is great, no other effective means of meeting the need is available, and intrusion on people's privacy is minimal, certain discretionless checkpoints toward that end may briefly detain motorists. In \"United States v. Martinez-Fuerte\" (1976), the Supreme Court allowed discretionless immigration checkpoints. In \"Michigan Dept. of State Police v. Sitz\" (1990), the Supreme Court allowed discretionless sobriety checkpoints. In \"Illinois v. Lidster\" (2004), the Supreme Court allowed focused informational checkpoints. However, in \"City of Indianapolis v. Edmond\" (2000), the Supreme Court ruled that discretionary checkpoints or general crime-fighting checkpoints are not allowed.\n\nUnder the Fourth Amendment, law enforcement must receive written permission from a court of law, or otherwise qualified magistrate, to lawfully search and seize evidence while investigating criminal activity. A court grants permission by issuing a writ known as a warrant. A search or seizure is generally unreasonable and unconstitutional if conducted without a valid warrant and the police must obtain a warrant whenever practicable. Searches and seizures without a warrant are not considered unreasonable if one of the specifically established and well-delineated exceptions to the warrant requirement applies. These exceptions apply \"[o]nly in those exceptional circumstances in which special needs, beyond the normal need for law enforcement, make the warrant and probable cause requirement impracticable\".\n\nIn these situations where the warrant requirement doesn't apply a search or seizure nonetheless must be justified by some individualized suspicion of wrongdoing. However, the U.S. Supreme Court carved out an exception to the requirement of individualized suspicion. It ruled that, \"In limited circumstances, where the privacy interests implicated by the search are minimal and where an important governmental interest furthered by the intrusion would be placed in jeopardy by a requirement of individualized suspicion\" a search [or seizure] would still be reasonable.\n\nThe standards of probable cause differ for an arrest and a search. The government has probable cause to make an arrest when \"the facts and circumstances within their knowledge and of which they had reasonably trustworthy information\" would lead a prudent person to believe that the arrested person had committed or was committing a crime. Probable cause to arrest must exist before the arrest is made. Evidence obtained after the arrest may not apply retroactively to justify the arrest.\n\nWhen police conduct a search, the amendment requires that the warrant establish probable cause to believe that the search will uncover criminal activity or contraband. They must have legally sufficient reasons to believe a search is necessary. In \"Carroll v. United States\" (1925), the Supreme Court stated that probable cause to search is a flexible, common-sense standard. To that end, the Court ruled in \"Dumbra v. United States\" (1925) that the term probable cause means \"less than evidence that would justify condemnation\", reiterating \"Carroll\"s assertion that it merely requires that the facts available to the officer would \"warrant a man of reasonable caution\" in the belief that specific items may be contraband or stolen property or useful as evidence of a crime. It does not demand any showing that such a belief be correct or more likely true than false. A \"practical, non-technical\" probability that incriminating evidence is involved is all that is required. In \"Illinois v. Gates\" (1983), the Court ruled that the reliability of an informant is to be determined based on the \"totality of the circumstances\".\n\nIf a party gives consent to a search, a warrant is not required. There are exceptions and complications to the rule, including the scope of the consent given, whether the consent is voluntarily given, and whether an individual has the right to consent to a search of another's property. In \"Schneckloth v. Bustamonte\" (1973), the Court ruled that a consent search is still valid even if the police do not inform a suspect of his right to refuse the search. This contrasts with Fifth Amendment rights, which cannot be relinquished without an explicit \"Miranda\" warning from police.\n\nThe Court stated in \"United States v. Matlock\" (1974) that a third party co-occupant could give consent for a search without violating a suspect's Fourth Amendment rights. However, in \"Georgia v. Randolph\" (2006), the Supreme Court ruled that when two co-occupants are both present, one consenting and the other rejecting the search of a shared residence, the police may not make a search of that residence within the consent exception to the warrant requirement. Per the Court's ruling in \"Illinois v. Rodriguez\" (1990), a consent search is still considered valid if police accept in good faith the consent of an \"apparent authority\", even if that party is later discovered to not have authority over the property in question. A telling case on this subject is \"Stoner v. California\", in which the Court held that police officers could not rely in good faith upon the apparent authority of a hotel clerk to consent to the search of a guest's room.\n\nAccording to the plain view doctrine as defined in \"Coolidge v. New Hampshire\" (1971), if an officer is lawfully present, he may seize objects that are in \"plain view\". However, the officer must have had probable cause to believe that the objects are contraband. What's more, the criminality of the object in plain view must be obvious by its very nature. In \"Arizona v. Hicks\", the Supreme Court held that an officer stepped beyond the plain view doctrine when he moved a turntable in order to view its serial number to confirm that the turntable was stolen. \"A search is a search\", proclaimed the Court, \"even if it happens to disclose nothing but the bottom of a turntable.\"\n\nSimilarly, \"open fields\" such as pastures, open water, and woods may be searched without a warrant, on the ground that conduct occurring therein would have no reasonable expectation of privacy. The doctrine was first articulated by the Court in \"Hester v. United States\" (1924), which stated that \"the special protection accorded by the Fourth Amendment to the people in their 'persons, houses, papers, and effects,' is not extended to the open fields.\"\n\nIn \"Oliver v. United States\" (1984), the police ignored a \"no trespassing\" sign and a fence, trespassed onto the suspect's land without a warrant, followed a path for hundreds of feet, and discovered a field of marijuana. The Supreme Court ruled that no search had taken place, because there was no privacy expectation regarding an open field:\n\nWhile open fields are not protected by the Fourth Amendment, the curtilage, or outdoor area immediately surrounding the home, is protected. Courts have treated this area as an extension of the house and as such subject to all the privacy protections afforded a person's home (unlike a person's open fields) under the Fourth Amendment. The curtilage is \"intimately linked to the home, both physically and psychologically,\" and is where \"privacy expectations are most heightened.\" However, courts have held aerial surveillance of curtilage not to be included in the protections from unwarranted search so long as the airspace above the curtilage is generally accessible by the public. An area is curtilage if it \"harbors the intimate activity associated with the sanctity of a man's home and the privacies of life.\" Courts make this determination by examining \"whether the area is included within an enclosure surrounding the home, the nature of the uses to which the area is put, and the steps taken by the resident to protect the area from observation by people passing by.\" The Court has acknowledged that a doorbell or knocker is typically treated as an invitation, or license, to the public to approach the front door of the home to deliver mail, sell goods, solicit for charities, etc. This license extends to the police, who have the right to try engaging a home's occupant in a \"knock and talk\" for the purpose of gathering evidence without a warrant. However, they cannot bring a drug detection dog to sniff at the front door of a home without either a warrant or consent of the homeowner or resident.\n\nLaw enforcement officers may also conduct warrantless searches in several types of exigent circumstances where obtaining a warrant is dangerous or impractical. One example is the Terry stop, which allows police to frisk suspects for weapons. The Court also allowed a search of arrested persons in \"Weeks v. United States\" (1914) to preserve evidence that might otherwise be destroyed and to ensure suspects were disarmed. In \"Carroll v. United States\" (1925), the Court ruled that law enforcement officers could search a vehicle that they suspected of carrying contraband without a warrant. The Court allowed blood to be drawn without a warrant from drunk-driving suspects in \"Schmerber v. California\" (1966) on the grounds that the time to obtain a warrant would allow a suspect's blood alcohol content to reduce, although this was later modified by \"Missouri v. McNeely\" (2013). \"Warden v. Hayden\" (1967) provided an exception to the warrant requirement if officers were in \"hot pursuit\" of a suspect.\n\nA subset of exigent circumstances is the debated community caretaking exception.\n\nThe Supreme Court has held that individuals in automobiles have a reduced expectation of privacy, because (1) vehicles generally do not serve as residences or repositories of personal effects, and (2) vehicles \"can be quickly moved out of the locality or jurisdiction in which the warrant must be sought.\" Vehicles may not be randomly stopped and searched; there must be probable cause or reasonable suspicion of criminal activity. Items in plain view may be seized; areas that could potentially hide weapons may also be searched. With probable cause to believe evidence is present, police officers may search any area in the vehicle. However, they may not extend the search to the vehicle's passengers without probable cause to search those passengers or consent from the passengers. In \"Collins v. Virginia\" (2018), the Court ruled that the motor vehicle exception did not apply to searches of vehicles parked within a residence's curtilage.\n\nIn \"Arizona v. Gant\" (2009), the Court ruled that a law enforcement officer needs a warrant before searching a motor vehicle after an arrest of an occupant of that vehicle, unless 1) at the time of the search the person being arrested is unsecured and within reaching distance of the passenger compartment of the vehicle or 2) police officers have reason to believe that evidence for the crime for which the person is being arrested will be found in the vehicle.\n\nA common law rule from Great Britain permits searches incident to an arrest without a warrant. This rule has been applied in American law, and has a lengthy common law history. The justification for such a search is to prevent the arrested individual 1.) from destroying evidence or 2.) using a weapon against the arresting officer by disarming the suspect. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that \"both justifications for the search-incident-to-arrest exception are absent and the rule does not apply\", when \"there is no possibility\" that the suspect could gain access to a weapon or destroy evidence. In \"Trupiano v. United States\" (1948), the Supreme Court held that \"a search or seizure without a warrant as an incident to a lawful arrest has always been considered to be a strictly limited right. It grows out of the inherent necessities of the situation at the time of the arrest. But there must be something more in the way of necessity than merely a lawful arrest.\" In \"United States v. Rabinowitz\" (1950), the Court reversed \"Trupiano\", holding instead that the officers' opportunity to obtain a warrant was not germane to the reasonableness of a search incident to an arrest. \"Rabinowitz\" suggested that any area within the \"immediate control\" of the arrestee could be searched, but it did not define the term. In deciding \"Chimel v. California\" (1969), the Supreme Court elucidated its previous decisions. It held that when an arrest is made, it is reasonable for the officer to search the arrestee for weapons and evidence. However, in \"Riley v. California\" (2014), the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that police must obtain a warrant to search an arrestee's cellular phone. The Court said that earlier Supreme Court decisions permitting searches incident to an arrest without a warrant do not apply to \"modern cellphones, which are now such a pervasive and insistent part of daily life that the proverbial visitor from Mars might conclude they were an important feature of human anatomy,\" and noted that US citizens' cellphones today typically contain \"a digital record of nearly every aspect of their lives — from the mundane to the intimate.\"\n\nSearches conducted at the United States border or the equivalent of the border (such as an international airport) may be conducted without a warrant or probable cause subject to the border search exception. Most border searches may be conducted entirely at random, without any level of suspicion, pursuant to U.S. Customs and Border Protection plenary search authority. However, searches that intrude upon a traveler's personal dignity and privacy interests, such as strip and body cavity searches, must be supported by \"reasonable suspicion.\" The U.S. Courts of Appeals for the Fourth and Ninth circuits have ruled that information on a traveler's electronic materials, including personal files on a laptop computer, may be searched at random, without suspicion.\n\nThe Supreme Court decision in \"United States v. U.S. District Court\" (1972) left open the possibility for a foreign intelligence surveillance exception to the warrant clause. Three United States Courts of Appeals have recognized a foreign intelligence surveillance exception to the warrant clause, but tied it to certain requirements. The exception to the Fourth Amendment was formally recognized by the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review in its 2008 \"In re Directives\" decision. The lower court held that, \"a foreign intelligence exception to the Fourth Amendment's warrant requirement exists when surveillance is conducted to obtain foreign intelligence for national security purposes and is directed against foreign powers or agents of foreign powers reasonably believed to be located outside the United States.\" Despite the foregoing citation the Fourth Amendment prohibitions against unreasonable searches and seizures nonetheless apply to the contents of all communications, whatever the means, because, \"a person's private communications are akin to personal papers.\" To protect the telecommunication carriers cooperating with the US government from legal action, the Congress passed a bill updating the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 to permit this type of surveillance.\n\nIn \"New Jersey v. T. L. O.\" (1985), the Supreme Court ruled that searches in public schools do not require warrants, as long as the searching officers have reasonable grounds for believing that the search will result in the finding of evidence of illegal activity. However, in \"Safford Unified School District v. Redding\" (2009), the Court ruled that school officials violated the Fourth Amendment when they strip searched a 13-year-old girl based only on a student claiming to have received drugs from that student. Similarly, in \"Samson v. California\" (2006), the Court ruled that government offices may be searched for evidence of work-related misconduct by government employees on similar grounds. Searches of prison cells are subject to no restraints relating to reasonableness or probable cause.\n\nOne way courts enforce the Fourth Amendment is through the use of the exclusionary rule. The rule provides that evidence obtained through a violation of the Fourth Amendment is generally not admissible by the prosecution during the defendant's criminal trial. The Court stated in \"Elkins v. United States\" (1960) that the rule's function \"is to deter—to compel respect for the constitutional guaranty in the only effectively available way—by removing the incentive to disregard it.\"\n\nThe Court adopted the exclusionary rule in \"Weeks v. United States\" (1914), prior to which all evidence, no matter how seized, could be admitted in court. In \"Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States\" (1920) and \"Nardone v. United States\" (1939), the Court ruled that leads or other evidence resulting from illegally obtained evidence are also inadmissible in trials. Justice Felix Frankfurter described this secondary evidence in the \"Nardone\" decision as the \"fruit of the poisonous tree\". The Supreme Court rejected incorporating the exclusionary rule by way of the Fourteenth Amendment in \"Wolf v. Colorado\" (1949), but \"Wolf\" was explicitly overruled in \"Mapp v. Ohio\" (1961), making the Fourth Amendment (including the exclusionary rule) applicable in state proceedings.\n\nThe exclusionary rule and its effectiveness have often been controversial, particularly since its 1961 application to state proceedings. Critics charge that the rule hampers police investigation and can result in freeing guilty parties convicted on reliable evidence; other critics state that the rule has not been successful in deterring illegal police searches. Proponents argue that the number of criminal convictions overturned under the rule has been minimal and that no other effective mechanism exists to enforce the Fourth Amendment. In 1982, California passed a \"Victim's Bill of Rights\" containing a provision to repeal the exclusionary rule; though the bill could not affect federally mandated rights under the Fourth Amendment, it blocked the state courts from expanding these protections further.\n\nSince \"United States v. Calandra\" (1974), the Supreme Court has repeatedly limited the exclusionary rule. The Court in \"Calandra\" ruled that grand juries may use illegally obtained evidence when questioning witnesses, because \"the damage to that institution from the unprecedented extension of the exclusionary rule outweighs the benefit of any possible incremental deterrent effect.\" Explaining the purpose of the rule, the Court said that the rule \"is a judicially created remedy designed to safeguard Fourth Amendment rights generally through its deterrent effect, rather than a personal constitutional right of the party aggrieved.\"\n\nSeveral cases in 1984 further restricted the exclusionary rule:\n\n\nIn \"Arizona v. Evans\" (1995) and \"Herring v. United States\" (2009), the Court ruled that the exclusionary rule does not apply to evidence found due to negligence regarding a government database, as long as the arresting police officer relied on that database in \"good faith\" and the negligence was not pervasive. In \"Davis v. United States\" (2011), the Court ruled that the exclusionary rule does not apply to a Fourth Amendment violation resulting from a reasonable reliance on binding appellate precedent. In \"Utah v. Strieff\" (2016), the Court ruled that evidence obtained from an unlawful police stop would not be excluded from court when the link between the stop and the evidence's discovery was \"attenuated\" by the discovery of an outstanding warrant during the stop.\n\nThe Supreme Court has also held the exclusionary rule to not apply in the following circumstances:\n\nOn December 16, 2013, in \"Klayman v. Obama\", a United States district court ruled that the mass collection of metadata of Americans' telephone records by the National Security Agency probably violates the Fourth Amendment. The court granted a preliminary injunction, blocking the collection of phone data for two private plaintiffs and ordered the government to destroy any of their records that have been gathered. The court stayed the ruling pending a government appeal, recognizing the \"significant national security interests at stake in this case and the novelty of the constitutional issues\".\n\nHowever, in \"ACLU v. Clapper\", a United States district court ruled that the U.S. government's global telephone data-gathering system is needed to thwart potential terrorist attacks, and that it can only work if everyone's calls are included. The court also ruled that Congress legally set up the program and that it does not violate anyone's constitutional rights. The court concluded that the telephone data being swept up by NSA did not belong to telephone users, but to the telephone companies. Also, the court held that when NSA obtains such data from the telephone companies, and then probes into it to find links between callers and potential terrorists, this further use of the data was not even a search under the Fourth Amendment, concluding that the controlling precedent is \"Smith v. Maryland\", saying \"Smith's bedrock holding is that an individual has no legitimate expectation of privacy in information provided to third parties.\" The American Civil Liberties Union declared on January 2, 2014, that it will appeal the ruling that NSA bulk phone record collection is legal. \"The government has a legitimate interest in tracking the associations of suspected terrorists, but tracking those associations does not require the government to subject every citizen to permanent surveillance,\" deputy ACLU legal director Jameel Jaffer said in a statement.\n\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "1076503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1076503", "title": "Generation Adidas", "text": "Generation Adidas\n\nGeneration Adidas is a joint venture between Major League Soccer and U.S. Soccer aimed at raising the level of young professional soccer talent in the United States. The program, sponsored by Adidas, offers professional-ready players in the U.S. developmental system not yet eligible for the MLS SuperDraft early entry, allowing MLS to compete with foreign professional clubs without comparable restrictions on player signing. From its establishment in 1997 to 2005, the program was sponsored by Nike and was called Project-40. Originally intended to improve the U.S. national team player pool, American national team eligibility is no longer required for program entry.\n\nCarlos Parra was the first Project-40 player when he signed with the league and was allocated to the New York/New Jersey MetroStars in 1997. Since then, the program has included players such as Tim Howard, DaMarcus Beasley, Maurice Edu, Carlos Bocanegra, Clint Dempsey, Jozy Altidore, Ben Olsen, Sacha Kljestan, Freddy Adu, Brad Guzan, Michael Bradley, Nick Rimando, and Kyle Beckerman. \n\nGeneration Adidas players do not count against the MLS senior roster and usually earn a much higher salary than the league minimum. Entering into the program automatically classifies a player as professional, and thus disqualifies them from playing college soccer. As a result, Generation Adidas players are also guaranteed scholarships to continue their college education should their professional career not pan out.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2000, MLS entered a team of Project-40 players, supplemented by other MLS players who did not get much playing time, into the A-League in the USL.\n\nIn 2017, MLS introduced Canadian Generation Adidas players, part of a new initiative with the Canadian Soccer Association. Canadian Generation Adidas players count as domestic players on US based MLS teams.\n\nGeneration Adidas graduates are announced at the end of the MLS season (prior to 2008, 2009, 2010, and 2011) so in the charts below the graduation year represents the season after which the player was announced by MLS as a Generation Adidas graduate.\n"}
{"id": "12960927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12960927", "title": "Good Copy Bad Copy", "text": "Good Copy Bad Copy\n\nGood Copy Bad Copy (subtitled \"A documentary about the current state of copyright and culture\") is a 2007 documentary film about copyright and culture in the context of Internet, peer-to-peer file sharing and other technological advances, directed by Andreas Johnsen, Ralf Christensen, and Henrik Moltke. It features interviews with many people with various perspectives on copyright, including copyright lawyers, producers, artists and filesharing service providers.\n\nA central point of the documentary is the thesis that \"creativity itself is on the line\" and that a balance needs to be struck, or that there is a conflict between protecting the right of those who own intellectual property and the rights of future generations to create.\n\nArtists interviewed include Girl Talk and Danger Mouse, popular musicians of the mashup scene who cut and remix sounds from other songs into their own. The interviews with these artists reveal an emerging understanding of digital works and the obstacle to their authoring copyright presents.\n\nThe interviews featured in \"Good Copy Bad Copy\" acknowledge a recent shift towards user-generated content, mashup music and video culture. The documentary opens with explaining the current legal situation concerning sampling, licensing and copyright.\n\n\"Good Copy Bad Copy\" documents the conflict between current copyright law and recent technological advances that enable the sampling of music, as well as the distribution of copyrighted material via peer-to-peer file sharing search engines such as The Pirate Bay. MPAA (Motion Picture Association of America) CEO Dan Glickman is interviewed in connection with a raid by the Swedish police against The Pirate Bay in May 2006. Glickman concedes that piracy will never be stopped, but states that they will try to make it as difficult and tedious as possible. Gottfrid Svartholm and Fredrik Neij from The Pirate Bay are also interviewed, with Neij stating that The Pirate Bay is illegal according to US law, but not Swedish law.\n\nThe interviews document attitudes towards art, culture and copyright in a number of countries, including the United States, Sweden, Russia, Nigeria, and Brazil.\n\nThe situation in Nigeria and Brazil is documented in terms of innovative business models that have developed in response to new technological possibilities and changing markets.\n\nIn Nigeria the documentary interviews individuals working within the Nigerian film industry, or Nollywood. Charles Igwe, a film producer in Lagos, is interviewed at length about his views on the Nigerian film industry, the nature of Nigerian films, and copyright in the context of digital video technology. Mayo Ayilaran, from the Copyright Society of Nigeria, explains the Nigerian government's approach to copyright enforcement.\n\nIn Brazil the Tecno brega industry and its unique approach to copyright and sampling is documented, featuring interviews with amongst others Ronaldo Lemos, Professor of Law FGV Brazil. Lemos explains that CDs or recorded music is treated merely as an advertisement for parties and concerts that generate revenue.\n\n\"Good Copy Bad Copy\" also includes interview segments with copyright activist and academic Lawrence Lessig.\n\n\nOriginally created for the Danish National Broadcasting Television network, the film was eventually released for free on the internet as a BitTorrent download. The filmmakers hope that releasing \"Good Copy Bad Copy\" for free will raise awareness and lead to other local broadcasting networks to show the documentary.\n\nThe documentary first appeared on The Pirate Bay and then it was officially released under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial license on the Blip.tv video sharing site.\n\nOn 8 May 2008, \"Good Copy Bad Copy\" was shown on SVT2, Swedish Television.\n\nOn 8 September 2009, \"Good Copy Bad Copy\" was shown on YLE FST5, Finnish Television.\n\nOn 5 January 2010, \"Good Copy Bad Copy\" was shown on SBS, Australian Television.\n\nThe documentary and an unofficial trailer are available on YouTube, and the full film is on Google Video. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "28137333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28137333", "title": "Gun laws in Italy", "text": "Gun laws in Italy\n\nGun laws in Italy incorporates the political and regulatory aspects of firearms usage in the country within the framework of the European Firearms Directive. Different types of gun licenses can be obtained from the national police authorities. According to a 2007 study by The Small Arms Survey Project, the per capita gun ownership rate in Italy is around 12% with an estimated 7 million registered firearms in circulation.\n\nTo legally purchase firearms in Italy, one must either obtain a \"purchase authorization\" (\"nulla osta\" all'acquisto), which allows the holder to purchase and own a firearm but not carry or use it, or be issued with a carry license first. A firearm purchase authorization is mostly used today to inherit a deceased close relative's firearms. To obtain either license applicants must be 18 or older, prove they can handle and use a firearm safely (usually by obtaining a certificate from a shooting range after attending a practical shooting course), declare to have a clean criminal record (verification will be made by the Police authorities) and must not be mentally ill or be a known abuser of, or addicted to, alcohol or illegal drugs. Other grounds for refusal of a carry license include being a conscientious objector or living with persons who may gain access to the firearms and abuse them (e.g. living with family members who are mentally ill, alcoholic or drug addicts).\n\nItalian laws prescribed that any rifled-barreled firearm imported or manufactured in Italy after 1976 should have been identified by a progressive catalogue number, assigned by a commission composed of government officials and representatives from the Italian arms industries. The role of the commission was to decide if a rifled firearm should be classified either a \"war firearm\" (\"arma da guerra\") or a \"common firearm\" (\"arma comune da sparo\"). The national firearms catalogue described the characteristics of the weapon (barrel and overall length, number of rounds in the magazine and other technical specifications) that cannot legally be altered without resubmitting the weapon to the commission. \"Common firearms\" with certain features (sights, type of action) can be classified as \"sporting firearms\" (\"armi sportive\"), which can be used for self defence as an \"extrema ratio\" (es. during a home invasion) but which can not be carried for said purpose.\n\nThe said catalogue and the related commission has been abolished since 2012, due to the economic stability law, approved 12 November 2011; its place has been taken by the Banco Nazionale di Prova (National Proof House) in Gardone Val Trompia, which admits or rejects firearms pending importation, at the same time maintaining an electronic record of the characteristics (long or short firearm, European firearm category, manufacturer, magazine capacity, etc.) of the firearms permitted for sale.\n\nAll private firearms must be registered at the local police department within \"72 hours\", as specified by law, after purchase or transfer, although this limit goes from the time the firearm is actually taken to the place where it is to be registered (for example, the firearm may be bought at a time and withdrawn after a week from the retailer; only then the weapon will require the registration).\n\nCitizens are allowed to own:\n\nAmmunition is also regulated. While each licensed individual can keep 1500 rounds of hunting ammunition, only 200 rounds of handgun ammunition are allowed. A license to store additional 1500 rounds of pistol ammunition can be obtained, provided specific requirements are met. Ammunition purchases must also be registered.\n\nTrade and ownership of deactivated and replica (non firing) firearms is unrestricted, although every deactivated firearm must be accompanied by a deactivation certificate in conformity to the Italian law.\n\nA \"Firearm Collector's License\" allows the bearer to keep at home an unlimited number of weapons, but they usually cannot be used or moved, their ammunition cannot be bought and, if the number of owned weapons is high, the owner may be requested to keep them in a safe room; exact details may vary according to the local police department's policy. Holders of a Special Firearm Collectors License can own a higher number of weapons but are forbidden from using or moving them and from buying ammunition. In certain cases, they are required to house the weapons in a safe room that meets police specifications.\n\nIn Italy it is illegal to carry weapons in public places, but the law provides the following exceptions:\n\nA hunting license, along with a special hunting permit issued by the region of residence, allows to carry hunting weapons only during the hunting season and only within game preserves. When transporting them outside game reserves, the shotguns must be kept unloaded and locked in their case.\n\nFirearms allowed for hunt are:\n\n\nWith a \"shooting sports license\", citizens are allowed to transport (unloaded and stored in a proper case) firearms from their home to an authorized shooting range or to another safe place to practice shooting, which, in case of a private place, must be reasonably distant from roads and inhabited areas, and not accessible by unauthorized people. Just like any other gun license, the shooting sports license is valid nationwide: the shooter can thus transport his/her gun anywhere through the national territory, although said guns can only be \"used\" in the aforementioned designated places and must never be left unattended during transportation.\n\nA \"concealed carry license\" allows a citizen to carry a handgun for personal defense; this license is usually much harder to obtain than the other two firearm licenses, must be renewed yearly (while the hunting and shooting sports licences are valid for 6 years), and the applicant has to provide a valid reason to carry a concealed gun (e.g. a salesperson of valuable goods such as jewelry). A special carry license is released to private security personnel; this license differs from the standard carry licenses in that it has to be renewed every two years and a lower tax to pay for the release. Open-carry of handguns is not explicitly forbidden by the law, but it is \"de facto\" permitted only to on-duty security personnel.\nThe prefects, magistrates can buy and carry guns for self-defense without Concealed Carry License.\n\nItalian gun laws pose restrictions to the kind of firearms, calibers and magazine available to civilians. Semi-automatic firearms can be bought by licensees without additional restrictions.\nFORBIDDEN: Noise Suppressor as well as Semiautomatic pistols in 9mm Parabellum are restricted for the civil market. Full-automatic/select-fire firearms (machineguns), grenade launchers, suppressors, destructive devices and all other kinds of military weapons and ammunition, semiautomatic pistols in caliber\nREGULATED CALIBER: 9mm Parabellum is permitted for revolver and rifle only; 5.56×45mm NATO is forbidden but .223 Rem is permitted; 7.62×51mm NATO is forbidden but 308 WIN is permitted).\nREGULATED ACCESSORIES: magazine with capacity greater of 20 rounds for pistols or 10 for rifle are not traced but need to be denounced as weapons within 72 hours from the purchase as per article 38 of the amended Public Security Act (TULPS).\n\nNational police officers are always allowed to carry their handguns without territorial or time restrictions, but are required to carry them concealed when they are off duty. Submachine guns can only be carried while on duty.\n\nLocal police officers are generally allowed to carry their handguns (concealed when off duty), but only within their territorial limits.\n\nSecurity guards can be allowed by the prefect to carry weapons when on duty and without territorial limits, upon request; usually this permission is granted to cash-in-transit security officers, as well as to private security personnel guarding banks, shopping malls and other facilities (in recent years, even some public offices and hospitals in Italy have contracted private security personnel for 24/7 protection).\n\nThe guns carried by police forces are usually the property of the national or local government authority from which they depend; National Police officers are usually assigned a pistol for an indefinite time, while gun assignment specifications for Local Police forces may vary from indefinite to limited, according to local regulations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2454472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2454472", "title": "Gypsum concrete", "text": "Gypsum concrete\n\nGypsum concrete is a building material used as a floor underlayment used in wood-frame and concrete construction for fire ratings, sound reduction, radiant heating, and floor leveling. It is a mixture of gypsum plaster, Portland cement, and sand. The brand name Gyp-Crete, a Maxxon Corporation trademark, has come into general use as a term for gypsum concrete by construction professionals and architects.\n\nUS patent 4,444,925 lists the components of Gyp-Crete® as atmospheric calcined gypsum, sand, water, and small amounts of various additives. Additives listed include polyvinyl alcohol, an extender such as sodium citrate or fly ash, a surfactant such as Colloid defoamer 1513 DD made by Colloids, Inc., and a fluidizer based on sodium or potassium derivatives of naphthalene sulfonate formaldehyde condensate. One example mix is shown below.\n\nThe purpose of the polyvinyl alcohol is to prevent the surface of the concrete from becoming dusty. While the exact mechanism is not known, it is thought that as the concrete sets, water migrates to the surface, bringing with it fine, dusty particles. When the water evaporates, the dusty particles are deposited on the surface. It is thought that the polyvinyl alcohol prevents the dusty particles from migrating upwards with the water.\n\nThe mix is prepared on site using a specialized truck. The truck contains a tank for water, a mixing tank, a holding tank, a pump, and a conveyor for the sand and calcined gypsum. A hopper for the sand and gypsum is mounted externally on the vehicle.\n\nTo prepare the mix, the sand and calcined gypsum are added to the hopper and mixed. Most of the required water is added to the mixing tank, then the sand and calcined gypsum are mixed in. Once all the sand and calcined gypsum have been mixed in, the rest of the water is added until the proper consistency is attained. Finally, the additives are mixed in and the whole batch of concrete is moved to the holding tank to be pumped out into the required area via long hoses. A small sample is taken from the batch and set aside so that the set-up time can be observed and adjustments can be made to the amount of additives so that the timing is correct.\n\nOnce the mix has been poured, little leveling, if any, is needed. The mix should be smoothed gently with a flat board, such as a 40” 1x4. This helps to concentrate the calcined gypsum at the surface.\n\nUS patent 4,075,374 lists the formulation as 10 parts pressure calcined gypsum, 38-48 parts sand, and 4-10 parts water. 0.03 to 0.1 parts of a latex emulsion, such as Dow Latex 460, were also added. To prevent foaming, a defoamer such as WEX was added to the latex at a concentration of 0.2%. It was stated that gypsum calcined at atmospheric pressure produced poor results due to it having flaky particles, and that gypsum calcined under a pressure of 15-17 psi produced better results because it had denser, crystalline particles.\n\nLater it was found that this original formulation expanded too much and in some instances floors cracked. US patent 4,159,912 describes changes made so that the expansion was greatly reduced. In that formulation, 5-8% of Portland cement was added to reduce the expansion. The latex emulsion and antifoaming agent were no longer necessary as the concrete was strengthened by the Portland cement. It was found that atmospheric calcined gypsum could be used for the majority of the calcined gypsum if it was ball milled to change the texture. The proportion of sand was also changed, so that it was in a 1:1.3 to 1:3 ratio with the calcined gypsum. This resulted in a runnier mix, but the set up time was not changed.\n\nGypsum concrete is lightweight and fire-resistant. A 1.5-inch slab of gypsum concrete weighs 13 pounds per square foot versus 18 pounds per square foot for regular concrete. \nEven though gypsum concrete weighs less, it still has the same compressive strength as regular concrete, based on its application as underlayment or top coat flooring. \nA 7-man work crew can lay 4–6 times as much gypsum concrete in a work day as regular poured Portland cement. This is due to the ease of leveling the very runny gypsum concrete versus normal concrete. In addition, if the wooden subfloor is first coated in a film of latex, the adhesion between the subfloor and the concrete is much better than the adhesion obtained with “normal” concrete. A further benefit is that nails can be driven through the cement into the subfloor without it chipping.\nThe cost of gypsum concrete is comparable to regular concrete, ranging from $1.75 per square foot to $6.00 per square foot. \nRegular concrete ranges from $2.50 to $4.50 per square foot.\n\nIn the late 1940s, copper tubing and Portland concrete were used to install radiant heat flooring. The copper tubes would be laid out around the ground and then the Portland concrete could be poured to cover the tubing and make an even base for the floor. However, this practice fell out of use in the United States within 15–20 years because the Portland concrete was too corrosive on the copper tubing. In the 1980s Gypsum concrete became widely used in the United States for radiant heat flooring. Plastic PEX tubing could be used with Gypsum concrete for radiant heat flooring without concern for corrosion on the PEX tubing.\n\nSuppliers include USG Corporation (LEVELROCK ® Brand Gypsum Underlayments), Hacker Industries, Inc. (FIRM-FILL ® Brand Gypsum Concretes) and Maxxon Corporation (Gyp-Crete ®).\n\n1. The table in the patent lists the PVA content as 0.45 grains (0.00002%). Later on, it is stated that the PVA should be in a 1:0.005625 ratio with the calcined gypsum. This yields a PVA content of 0.45 lbs (0.16%).\n\n"}
{"id": "2280915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280915", "title": "Incontrovertible evidence", "text": "Incontrovertible evidence\n\nIncontrovertible evidence is a colloquial term for evidence introduced to prove a fact that is supposed to be so conclusive that there can be no other truth to the matter; evidence so strong it overpowers contrary evidence, directing a fact-finder to a specific and certain conclusion.\n\nExamples: a DNA test disproving a claim of parenthood.\n"}
{"id": "1178419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178419", "title": "Insurance fraud", "text": "Insurance fraud\n\nInsurance fraud is any act committed to defraud an insurance process. This occurs when a claimant attempts to obtain some benefit or advantage they are not entitled to, or when an insurer knowingly denies some benefit that is due. According to the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation, the most common schemes include: premium diversion, fee churning, asset diversion, and workers compensation fraud. Perpetrators in these schemes can be insurance company employees or claimants. False insurance claims are insurance claims filed with the intent to defraud an insurance provider.\n\nInsurance fraud has existed since the beginning of insurance as a commercial enterprise. Fraudulent claims account for a significant portion of all claims received by insurers, and cost billions of dollars annually. Types of insurance fraud are diverse, and occur in all areas of insurance. Insurance crimes also range in severity, from slightly exaggerating claims to deliberately causing accidents or damage. Fraudulent activities affect the lives of innocent people, both directly through accidental or intentional injury or damage, and indirectly as these crimes lead to higher insurance premiums. Insurance fraud poses a significant problem, and governments and other organizations try to deter such activity.\n\nAn epigram by the Roman poet Martial provides a clear evidence the phenomenon of insurance fraud was already known in the Roman Empire during the First Century AD : \n\nThe “chief motive in all insurance crimes is financial profit.” Insurance contracts provide both the insured and the insurer with opportunities for exploitation.\n\nAccording to the Coalition Against Insurance Fraud, the causes vary, but are usually centered on greed, and on holes in the protections against fraud. Often, those who commit insurance fraud view it as a low-risk, lucrative enterprise. For example, drug dealers who have entered insurance fraud think it’s safer and more profitable than working street corners. Compared to those for other crimes, court sentences for insurance fraud can be lenient, reducing the risk of extended punishment. Though insurers fight fraud, some pay suspicious claims anyway, as settling such claims is often cheaper than legal action.\n\nAnother basis for fraud is over-insurance, in which someone insures property for more than its real value. This condition can be difficult to avoid, especially since an insurance provider might sometimes encourage it to obtain greater profits. This lets fraudsters profit by destroying their property, because they receive an insurance payout greater that the value property. The most common forms of insurance fraud are re-framing a non-insured damage to make it an event covered by insurance, and inflating the value of the loss.\n\nInsurance companies are also susceptible to fraud because it's possible for fraudsters to file claims for damages that never occurred.\n\nIt is hard to place an exact value on the money stolen through insurance fraud. Insurance fraud is deliberately undetectable, unlike visible crimes such as robbery or murder. As such, the number of cases of insurance fraud that are detected is much lower than the number of acts that are actually committed. The best that can be done is to provide an estimate for the losses that insurers suffer due to insurance fraud. The Coalition Against Insurance Fraud estimates that in 2006 a total of about $80 billion was lost in the United States due to insurance fraud. According to estimates by the Insurance Information Institute, insurance fraud accounts for about 10 percent of the property/casualty insurance industry’s incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses. The National Health Care Anti-Fraud Association estimates that 3% of the health care industry’s expenditures in the United States are due to fraudulent activities, amounting to a cost of about $51 billion. Other estimates attribute as much as 10% of the total healthcare spending in the United States to fraud—about $115 billion annually. Another study of all types of fraud committed in the United States insurance institutions (property-and-casualty, business liability, healthcare, social security, etc.)put the true cost at 33% to 38% of the total cash flow through the system. This study resulted in the book title \"The Trillion Dollar Insurance Crook\" by J.E. Smith. In the United Kingdom, the Insurance Fraud Bureau estimates that the loss due to insurance fraud in the United Kingdom is about £1.5 billion ($3.08 billion), causing a 5% increase in insurance premiums. The Insurance Bureau of Canada estimates that personal injury fraud in Canada costs about C$500 million annually.\nIndiaforensic Center of Studies estimates that Insurance frauds in India costs about $6.25 billion annually.\n\nInsurance fraud can be classified as either hard fraud or soft fraud.\n\nHard fraud occurs when someone deliberately plans or invents a loss, such as a collision, auto theft, or fire that is covered by their insurance policy so they can claim payment for damages. Criminal rings are sometimes involved in hard fraud schemes that can steal millions of dollars.\n\nSoft fraud, which is far more common than hard fraud, is sometimes also referred to as opportunistic fraud. This type of fraud consists of policyholders exaggerating otherwise-legitimate claims. For example, when involved in an automotive collision an insured person might claim more damage than actually occurred. Soft fraud can also occur when, while obtaining a new health insurance policy, an individual misreports previous or existing conditions to obtain a lower premium on the insurance policy.\n\nLife insurance fraud may involve faking death to claim life insurance. Fraudsters may sometimes turn up a few years after disappearing, claiming a loss of memory.\n\nAn example of life insurance fraud is the John Darwin disappearance case, which was an investigation into the act of pseudocide committed by the British former teacher and prison officer John Darwin, who turned up alive in December 2007, five years after he was thought to have died in a canoeing accident. Darwin was reported as \"missing\" after failing to report to work following a canoeing trip on March 21, 2002. He reappeared on December 1, 2007, claiming to have no memory of the past five years.\n\nAnother example is former British Government minister John Stonehouse who went missing in 1974 from a beach in Miami. He was discovered living under an assumed name in Australia, extradited to Britain and jailed for seven years for fraud, theft and forgery.\n\nHealth insurance fraud is described as an intentional act of deceiving, concealing, or misrepresenting information that results in health care benefits being paid to an individual or group.\n\nFraud can be committed either by an insured person or by a provider. Member fraud consists of claims on behalf of ineligible members and/or dependents, alterations on enrollment forms, concealing pre-existing conditions, failure to report other coverage, prescription drug fraud, and failure to disclose claims that were a result of a work-related injury.\n\nProvider fraud consists of claims submitted by bogus physicians, billing for services not rendered, billing for higher level of services, diagnosis or treatments that are outside the scope of practice, alterations on claims submissions, and providing services while medical licenses are either suspended or revoked. Independent medical examinations debunk false insurance claims and allow the insurance company or claimant to seek a non-partial medical view for injury-related cases.\n\nAccording to the Coalition Against Insurance Fraud, health insurance fraud depletes taxpayer-funded programs like Medicare, and may victimize patients in the hands of certain doctors. Some scams involve double-billing by doctors who charge insurers for treatments that never occurred, and surgeons who perform unnecessary surgery.\n\nAccording to Roger Feldman, Blue Cross Professor of Health Insurance at the University of Minnesota, one of the main reasons that medical fraud is such a prevalent practice is that nearly all of the parties involved find it favorable in some way. Many physicians see it as necessary to provide quality care for their patients. Many patients, although disapproving of the idea of fraud, are sometimes more willing to accept it when it affects their own medical care. Program administrators are often lenient on the issue of insurance fraud, as they want to maximize the services of their providers.\n\nThe most common perpetrators of healthcare insurance fraud are health care providers. One reason for this, according to David Hyman, a Professor at the University of Maryland School of Law, is that the historically-prevailing attitude in the medical profession is one of “fidelity to patients”. This incentive can lead to fraudulent practices such as billing insurers for treatments that are not covered by the patient’s insurance policy. To do this, physicians bill for a different service that the policy covers, rather than the service they rendered.\n\nAnother motivation for insurance fraud is a desire for financial gain. Public healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are especially conducive to fraudulent activities, as they are often run on a fee-for-service structure. Physicians use several fraudulent techniques to achieve this end. These can include “up-coding” or “upgrading,” which involve billing for more expensive treatments than those actually provided; providing, and subsequently billing for, treatments that are not medically necessary; scheduling extra visits for patients; referring patients to other physicians when no further treatment is actually necessary; \"phantom billing,\" or billing for services not rendered; and “ganging,” or billing for services to family members or other individuals who are accompanying the patient but who did not personally receive any services.\n\nPerhaps the greatest total dollar amount of fraud is committed by the health insurance companies themselves. There are numerous studies and articles detailing examples of insurance companies intentionally not paying claims and deleting them from their systems, denying and cancelling coverage, and the blatant underpayment to hospitals and physicians beneath what are normal fees for care they provide. Although difficult to obtain the information, this fraud by insurance companies can be estimated by comparing revenues from premium payments and expenditures on health claims.\n\nIn response to the increased amount of health care fraud in the United States, Congress, through the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), has specifically established health care fraud as a federal criminal offense with punishment of up to ten years of prison in addition to significant financial penalties.\n\nFraud rings or groups may fake traffic deaths or stage collisions to make false insurance or exaggerated claims and collect insurance money. The ring may involve insurance claims adjusters and other people who create phony police reports to process claims.\n\nThe Insurance Fraud Bureau in the UK estimated there were more than 20,000 staged collisions and false insurance claims across the UK from 1999 to 2006. One tactic fraudsters use is to drive to a busy junction or roundabout and brake sharply causing a motorist to drive into the back of them. They claim the other motorist was at fault because they were driving too fast or too close behind them, and make a false and inflated claim to the motorist's insurer for whiplash and damage, which can pay the fraudsters up to £30,000. In the Insurance Fraud Bureau's first year or operation, the usage of data mining initiatives exposed insurance fraud networks and led to 74 arrests and a five-to-one return on investment.\n\nThe Insurance Research Council estimated that in 1996, 21 to 36 percent of auto-insurance claims contained elements of suspected fraud. There is a wide variety of schemes used to defraud automobile insurance providers. These ploys can differ greatly in complexity and severity. Richard A. Derrig, vice president of research for the Insurance Fraud Bureau of Massachusetts, lists several ways that auto-insurance fraud can occur, such as:\n\nIn staged collision fraud, fraudsters use a motor vehicle to stage an accident with the innocent party. Typically, the fraudsters' vehicle carries four or five passengers. Its driver makes an unexpected manoeuvre, forcing an innocent party to collide with the fraudster's vehicle. Each of the fraudsters then files claims for injuries sustained in the vehicle. A “recruited” doctor diagnoses whiplash or other soft-tissue injuries that are hard to dispute later.\n\nOther examples include jumping in front of cars as done in Russia. The driving conditions and roads are dangerous with many people trying to scam drivers by jumping in front of expensive-looking cars or crashing into them. Hit and runs are very common and insurance companies notoriously specialize in denying claims. Two-way insurance coverage is very expensive and almost completely unavailable for vehicles over ten years old–the drivers can only obtain basic liability. Because Russian courts do not like using verbal claims, most people have dashboard cameras installed to warn would-be perpetrators or provide evidence for/against claims.\n\nA real accident may occur, but the dishonest owner may take the opportunity to incorporate a whole range of previous minor damage to the vehicle into the garage bill associated with the real accident. Personal injuries may also be exaggerated, particularly whiplash. Insurance fraud cases of exaggerated claims can also include claiming damage to the car that is not from the accident reported in the claim.\n\nExamples of soft auto-insurance fraud include filing more than one claim for a single injury, filing claims for injuries not related to an automobile accident, misreporting wage losses due to injuries, and reporting higher costs for car repairs than those that were actually paid. Hard auto-insurance fraud can include activities such as staging automobile collisions, filing claims when the claimant was not actually involved in the accident, submitting claims for medical treatments that were not received, or inventing injuries. Hard fraud can also occur when claimants falsely report their vehicle as stolen. Soft fraud accounts for the majority of fraudulent auto-insurance claims.\n\nAnother example is that a person may illegally register their car to a location that would net them cheaper insurance rates than where they actually live, sometimes called \"rate evasion\". For example, some drivers in Brooklyn have Pennsylvania license plates, because insurance rates for a car registered to an address in rural Pennsylvania are much less than they are in Brooklyn. Another form of automobile insurance fraud, known as \"fronting,\" involves registering someone other than the real primary driver of a car as the primary driver of the car. For example, parents might list themselves as the primary driver of their children's vehicles to avoid young driver premiums.\n\n\"Crash for cash\" scams may involve random unaware strangers, set to appear as the perpetrators of the orchestrated crashes. Such techniques are the \"classic rear-end shunt\" (the driver in front suddenly slams on the brakes, possibly with brake lights disabled), the \"decoy rear-end shunt\" (when following one car, another one pulls in front of it, causing it to brake sharply, then the first car drives off) or the \"helpful wave shunt\" (the driver is waved into a line of queuing traffic by the scammer who promptly crashes, then denies waving).\n\nOrganized crime rings can also be involved in auto-insurance fraud, sometimes carrying out schemes that are very complex. An example of one such ploy is given by Ken Dornstein, author of \"\". In this scheme, known as a “swoop-and-squat,” one or more drivers in “swoop” cars force an unsuspecting driver into position behind a “squat” car. This squat car, which is usually filled with several passengers, then slows abruptly, forcing the driver of the chosen car to collide with the squat car. The passengers in the squat car then file a claim with the other driver’s insurance company. This claim often includes bills for medical treatments that were not necessary or not received.\n\nAn incident that took place on Golden State Freeway June 17, 1992, brought public attention to the existence of organized crime rings that stage auto accidents for insurance fraud. These schemes generally consist of three different levels. At the top, there are the professionals—doctors or lawyers who diagnose false injuries and/or file fraudulent claims and these earn the bulk of the profits from the fraud. Next are the \"capper (insurance fraud)s\" or \"runners\", the middlemen who obtain the cars to crash, farm out the claims to the professionals at the top, and recruit participants. These participants at the bottom-rung of the scheme are desperate people (poor immigrants or others in need of quick cash) who are paid around $1000 USD to place their bodies in the paths of cars and trucks, playing a kind of Russian roulette with their lives and those of unsuspecting motorists around them. According to investigators, cappers usually hire within their own ethnic groups. What makes busting these staged-accident crime rings difficult is how quickly they move into jurisdictions with lesser enforcement, after a crackdown in a particular region. As a result, in the US several levels of police and the insurance industry have cooperated in forming task forces and sharing databases to track claim histories.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there is an increasing incidence of false whiplash claims to car insurance companies from motorists involved in minor car accidents (for instance; a shunt). Because the mechanism of injury is not fully understood, A&E doctors have to rely on a patient's external symptoms (which are easy to fake). Resultingly, \"no win no fee\" personal injury solicitors exploit this \"loophole\" for easy compensation money (often a £2500 payout). Ultimately this has resulted in increased motor insurance premiums, which has had the knock-on effect of pricing younger drivers off the road.\n\nPossible motivations for this can include obtaining payment that is worth more than the value of the property destroyed, or to destroy and subsequently receive payment for goods that could not otherwise be sold. According to Alfred Manes, the majority of property insurance crimes involve arson. One reason for this is that any evidence that a fire was started by arson is often destroyed by the fire itself. According to the United States Fire Administration, in the United States there were approximately 31,000 fires caused by arson in 2006, resulting in losses of $755 million.\n\nThe fraud involving claims from the councils' insurers suppose staging damages blamable on the local authorities (mostly falls and trips on council owned land) or inflating the value of existing damages.\n\nThe detection of insurance fraud generally occurs in two steps. The first step is to identify suspicious claims that have a higher possibility of being fraudulent. This can be done by computerized statistical analysis or by referrals from claims adjusters or insurance agents. Additionally, the public can provide tips to insurance companies, law enforcement and other organizations regarding suspected, observed, or admitted insurance fraud perpetrated by other individuals. Regardless of the source, the next step is to refer these claims to investigators for further analysis.\n\nDue to the sheer number of claims submitted each day, it would be far too expensive for insurance companies to have employees check each claim for symptoms of fraud. Instead, many companies use computers and statistical analysis to identify suspicious claims for further investigation. There are two main types of statistical analysis tools used: supervised and unsupervised. In both cases, suspicious claims are identified by comparing data about the claim to expected values. The main difference between the two methods is how the expected values are derived.\n\nIn a supervised method, expected values are obtained by analyzing records of both fraudulent and non-fraudulent claims. According to Richard J. Bolton and David B. Hand, both of Imperial College in London, this method has some drawbacks as it requires absolute certainty that those claims analyzed are actually either fraudulent or non-fraudulent, and because it can only be used to detect types of fraud that have been committed and identified before.\n\nUnsupervised methods of statistical detection, on the other hand, involve detecting claims that are abnormal. Both claims adjusters and computers can also be trained to identify “red flags,” or symptoms that in the past have often been associated with fraudulent claims. Statistical detection does not prove that claims are fraudulent; it merely identifies suspicious claims that must be investigated further.\n\nFraudulent claims can be one of two types:\nOnce a built up claim is identified, insurance companies usually try to negotiate the claim down to the appropriate amount. Suspicious claims can also be submitted to “special investigative units”, or SIUs, for further investigation. These units generally consist of experienced claims adjusters with special training in investigating fraudulent claims. These investigators look for certain symptoms associated with fraudulent claims, or otherwise look for evidence of falsification of some kind. This evidence can then be used to deny payment of the claims or to prosecute fraudsters if the violation is serious enough.\n\nWhen an insurance company's fraud department investigates a fraud claim, they frequently proceed in two stages: pre-contact and post-contact. In the pre-contact stage they analyze all available evidence before they contact the suspect. They may reviewing submitted paperwork, reach out to third parities, and gather evidence from available sources. Then, in the \"post-contact\" stage, they interview the suspect to gather more information and, ideally, obtain an incriminating statement. Insurance fraud investigators are trained to question the suspect in a way that precludes the suspect raising a valid defense at a later time. For example, questions about access to claim forms preclude the defense that another individual filled out the fraudulent documents. Common defenses that the suspect interview may preclude include, for example, that the suspect lacked knowledge that their statement was false, lacked the intention to defraud, or made an ambiguous statement that was later misinterpreted. Full disclosure may add credibility to a suspect's account of events, but omissions from disclosure or false statements may detract from the suspect's credibility in later interviews or proceedings.\n\nIn the context of health insurance, fraud by health insurance companies is sometimes found by comparing revenues from premiums paid against the expenditure by the health insurance companies on claims. For example, in 2006 the Harris County Medical Society, in Texas, had a health insurance rate increase of 22 percent for \"consumer-driven\" health plan from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas. This was despite the fact that during the previous year Blue Cross had paid out only 9 percent of the collected premium dollars for claims.\n\nNational and local governments, especially in the last half of the twentieth century, have recognized insurance fraud as a serious crime, and have made efforts to punish and prevent this practice. Some major developments are listed below:\n\n\nBesides making laws more severe, Legislation has also come up with a list for management that should be implemented so that companies are better suited to combat the possibility of being scammed. That list includes:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34498257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34498257", "title": "International Civil Rights Walk of Fame", "text": "International Civil Rights Walk of Fame\n\nThe International Civil Rights Walk of Fame, which honors some of the activists involved in the Civil Rights Movement and others involved in civil rights activities, was created in 2004 and is located at the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site in Atlanta. It consists of a promenade that showcases the footstep impressions of those honored, marked in granite and bronze. According to the National Park Service, which runs the historic site, the Walk of Fame was created \"to give recognition to those courageous soldiers of justice who sacrificed and struggled to make equality a reality for all.\" Another motivation was to enhance the historic value of the area, enrich its cultural heritage, and make the site a better tourist attraction.\n\nThe Walk of Fame is the brainchild of Xernona Clayton, founder and executive producer of the Trumpet Awards. She is a civil rights figure in her own right. Clayton said, \"This is a lasting memorial to those whose contributions were testaments to the fact that human progress is neither automatic nor inevitable. This historic site will serve as a symbol of pride and a beacon of hope for all future generations. We are looking forward to building a monument to the civil struggle that depicts every step taken toward the goal of justice and the tireless exertions and passionate concern of these dedicated individuals.\"\n\nBeginning in 2012, inductions will be held every two years.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31169834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31169834", "title": "Kampala Convention", "text": "Kampala Convention\n\nThe Kampala Convention (formally, the African Union Convention for the Protection and Assistance of Internally Displaced Persons in Africa) is a treaty of the African Union that addresses internal displacement caused by armed conflict, natural disasters and large-scale development projects in Africa.\n\nThe Convention was adopted in October 2009. As of 2016 it has been signed by 40 and ratified by 25 of the 54 member states of the African Union. The Convention entered into force on 6 December 2012, 30 days after its ratification by the 15th state.\n\nArticle 5(4) specifically establishes state responsibilities for the protection and assistance of internally displaced persons, whose displacement is the result of \"natural or human made disasters, including climate change\".\n\n"}
{"id": "17005473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17005473", "title": "Kazakhstani nationality law", "text": "Kazakhstani nationality law\n\nKazakhstani nationality law is governed by the Constitution of Kazakhstan and the Law on Citizenship (of 1991, with updates in 2002). \n\nDual citizenship is not recognized by the Republic of Kazakhstan.\n\n"}
{"id": "35629202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35629202", "title": "Leszek Nowak", "text": "Leszek Nowak\n\nLeszek Nowak (Więckowice, Tarnów County, 7 January 1943 – Poznań, 20 October 2009) was a Polish philosopher and lawyer.\n\nIn 1965, he graduated in law at Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznan, having written a thesis under the direction of Sigmund Ziembiński. In 1966 he completed his master's degree in philosophy at the University of Warsaw under the direction of Janina Kotarbinska. In 1967 he obtained a doctorate in law, writing on the interpretation of the law, the rule of law and semiotic functions of language, under Ziembiński. He was named assistant professor in 1970 and wrote on the methodological foundations of Karl Marx . In 1976 he was an associate professor of philosophy, the youngest such professor in Poland, and in 1990 he became a regular professor. In 1994, he became a member of the Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1965-1970 he worked in the Law Department of Applied Logic UAM, and between 1970 and 1985 in the Institute of Philosophy University. In 1985, he was fired from his job for publishing underground literature. In 1989, he was restored to his previous academic position.\n\nHe worked as a visiting professor at the universities of Berlin, Canberra (Australian National University), Catania and Frankfurt. He was a Fellow of the Institutes for Advanced Study in Wassenaar and Berlin. \n\nIn 1975, he founded an international series of bookish Poznan Studies in the Philosophy of the Sciences and the Humanities (published by Rodopi, Amsterdam / New York), where he was editor-in-chief until 2006.\n\nIn 1976 he founded a series of Poznan Studies in the Philosophy of Humanities (PWN, now publishing Profit & S-ka Poznan). In the years 1976-1984 he was the editor in chief and co-editor since 1989.\n\nIn 2000, he supervised 15 doctoral dissertations. Among those, 8 people received their habilitation, 4 received the title of professor, and two ordinary professor, and one was chosen a corresponding member of Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn his socio-political outlook, he strongly approached anarchism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1910981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1910981", "title": "Marine protected area", "text": "Marine protected area\n\nMarine protected areas (MPA) are protected areas of seas, oceans, estuaries or large lakes. These marine areas can come in many forms ranging from wildlife refuges to research facilities. MPAs restrict human activity for a conservation purpose, typically to protect natural or cultural resources. Such marine resources are protected by local, state, territorial, native, regional, national, or international authorities and differ substantially among and between nations. This variation includes different limitations on development, fishing practices, fishing seasons and catch limits, moorings and bans on removing or disrupting marine life. In some situations (such as with the Phoenix Islands Protected Area), MPAs also provide revenue for countries, potentially equal to the income that they would have if they were to grant companies permissions to fish.\n\nOn 28 October 2016 in Hobart, Australia, the Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources agreed to establish the first Antarctic and largest marine protected area in the world encompassing 1.55 million km (600,000 sq mi) in the Ross Sea. Other large MPAs are in the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic Oceans, in certain exclusive economic zones of Australia and overseas territories of France, the United Kingdom and the United States, with major ( or larger) new or expanded MPAs by these nations since 2012—such as Natural Park of the Coral Sea, Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument, Coral Sea Commonwealth Marine Reserve and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Marine Protected Area. When counted with MPAs of all sizes from many other countries, as of August 2016 there are more than 13,650 MPAs, encompassing 2.07% of the world's oceans, with half of that area – encompassing 1.03% of the world's oceans – receiving complete \"no-take\" designation.\n\n\"MPA\" is an umbrella term for protected areas that includes some area of marine landscape and/or biodiversity. The IUCN defines a marine protected area as:\n\"Any area of the intertidal or subtidal terrain, together with its overlying water and associated flora, fauna, historical and cultural features, which has been reserved by law or other effective means to protect part or all of the enclosed environment.\"An alternative is \"a clearly defined geographical space, recognized, dedicated, and managed through legal or other effective means, to achieve the long term conservation of nature with associated ecosystem services and cultural values\".\n\nUnited States Executive Order 13158 in May 2000 established MPAs, defining them as;\"Any area of the marine environment that has been reserved by federal, state, tribal, territorial, or local laws or regulations to provide lasting protection for part or all of the natural and cultural resources therein.\"The Convention on Biological Diversity defined the broader term of \"marine and coastal protected area\" (MCPA);\"Any defined area within or adjacent to the marine environment, together with its overlying water and associated flora, fauna, historical and cultural features, which has been reserved by legislation or other effective means, including custom, with the effect that its marine and/or coastal biodiversity enjoys a higher level of protection than its surroundings.\"\n\nSeveral types of compliant MPA can be distinguished:\n\nIUCN offered seven categories of protected area, based on management objectives and four broad governance types.\n\nRelated protected area categories include the following;\n\n\nWhile \"area\" refers to a single contiguous location, terms such as \"network\", \"system\", and \"region\" that group MPAs are not always consistently employed.\"System\" is more often used to refer to an individual MPA, whereas \"region\" is defined by the World Conservation Monitoring Centre as:\n\"A collection of individual MPAs operating cooperatively, at various spatial scales and with a range of protection levels that are designed to meet objectives that a single reserve cannot achieve.\"\n\nAt the 2004 Convention on Biological Diversity, the agency agreed to use \"network\" on a global level, while adopting \"system\" for national and regional levels. The \"network\" is a mechanism to establish regional and local systems, but carries no authority or mandate, leaving all activity within the \"system\".\n\n\"No take zones\" (NTZs), are areas designated in a number of the world's MPAs, where all forms of exploitation are prohibited and severely limits human activities. These no take zones can cover an entire MPA, or specific portions. For example, the Papahānaumokuākea Marine National Monument, the world's largest MPA (and largest protected area of any type, land or sea), is a 100% no take zone.\n\nRelated terms include; \"specially protected area\" (SPA), \"Special Area of Conservation\" (SAC), the United Kingdom's \"marine conservation zones\" (MCZs), or \"area of special conservation\" (ASC) etc. which each provide specific restrictions.\n\nStressors that affect oceans include \"the impact of extractive industries, localised pollution, and changes to its chemistry (ocean acidification) resulting from elevated carbon dioxide levels, due to our emissions\". MPAs have been cited as the ocean's single greatest hope for increasing the resilience of the marine environment to such stressors. Well-designed and managed MPAs developed with input and support from interested stakeholders can conserve biodiversity and protect and restore fisheries.\n\nMPAs can help sustain local economies by supporting fisheries and tourism. For example, Apo Island in the Philippines made protected one quarter of their reef, allowing fish to recover, jumpstarting their economy. This was shown in the film, \"Resources at Risk: Philippine Coral Reef\". A 2016 report by the Center for Development and Strategy found that programs like the United States National Marine Sanctuary system can develop considerable economic benefits for communities through Public–private partnerships.\n\nTypical MPAs restrict fishing, oil and gas mining and/or tourism. Other restrictions may limit the use of ultrasonic devices like sonar (which may confuse the guidance system of cetaceans), development, construction and the like. Some fishing restrictions include \"no-take\" zones, which means that no fishing is allowed. Less than 1% of US MPAs are no-take.\n\nShip transit can also be restricted or banned, either as a preventive measure or to avoid direct disturbance to individual species. The degree to which environmental regulations affect shipping varies according to whether MPAs are located in territorial waters, exclusive economic zones, or the high seas. The law of the sea regulates these limits.\n\nMost MPAs have been located in territorial waters, where the appropriate government can enforce them. However, MPAs have been established in exclusive economic zones and in international waters. For example, Italy, France and Monaco in 1999 jointly established a cetacean sanctuary in the Ligurian Sea named the Pelagos Sanctuary for Mediterranean Marine Mammals. This sanctuary includes both national and international waters. Both the CBD and IUCN recommended a variety of management systems for use in a protected area system. They advocated that MPAs be seen as one of many \"nodes\" in a network of protected areas. The following are the most common management systems:\n\nSeasonal and temporary management—Activities, most critically fishing, are restricted seasonally or temporarily, e.g., to protect spawning/nursing grounds or to let a rapidly reducing species recover.\n\nMultiple-use MPAs—These are the most common and arguably the most effective. These areas employ two or more protections. The most important sections get the highest protection, such as a no take zone and are surrounded with areas of lesser protections.\n\nCommunity involvement and related approaches—Community-managed MPAs empower local communities to operate partially or completely independent of the governmental jurisdictions they occupy. Empowering communities to manage resources can lower conflict levels and enlist the support of diverse groups that rely on the resource such as subsistence and commercial fishers, scientists, recreation, tourism businesses, youths and others.\n\nMarine Protected Area Networks or MPA networks have been defined as \"A group of MPAs that interact with one another ecologically and/or socially form a network\".\n\nThese networks are intended to connect individuals and MPAs and promote education and cooperation among various administrations and user groups. \"MPA networks are, from the perspective of resource users, intended to address both environmental and socio-economic needs, complementary ecological and social goals and designs need greater research and policy support\".\n\nFilipino communities connect with one another to share information about MPAs, creating a larger network through the social communities' support. Emerging or established MPA networks can be found in Australia, Belize, the Red Sea, Gulf of Aden and Mexico.\n\nThe 17th International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) General Assembly in San Jose, California, the 19th IUCN assembly and the fourth World Parks Congress all proposed to centralise the establishment of protected areas. The World Summit on Sustainable Development in 2002 called for The Evian agreement, signed by G8 Nations in 2003, agreed to these terms. The Durban Action Plan, developed in 2003, called for regional action and targets to establish a network of protected areas by 2010 within the jurisdiction of regional environmental protocols.It recommended establishing protected areas for 20 to 30% of the world's oceans by the goal date of 2012. The Convention on Biological Diversity considered these recommendations and recommended requiring countries to set up marine parks controlled by a central organization before merging them. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change agreed to the terms laid out by the convention, and in 2004, its member nations committed to the following targets;\n\n\"The establishment by 2010 of terrestrial and by 2012 for marine areas of comprehensive, effectively managed, and ecologically representative national and regional systems of protected areas that collectively, inter alia through a global network, contribute to achieving the three objectives of the Convention and the 2010 target to significantly reduce the current late of biodiversity loss at the global, regional, national, and sub-national levels and contribute to poverty reduction and the pursuit of sustainable development.\"\n\nThe UN later endorsed another decision, Decision VII/15, in 2006:\n\nOn 7 April 1982, the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CAMLR Convention) came into force after discussions began in 1975 between parties of the then-current Antarctic Treaty to limit large-scale exploitation of krill by commercial fisheries. The Convention bound contracting nations to abide by previously agreed upon Antarctic territorial claims and peaceful use of the region while protecting ecosystem integrity south of the Antarctic Convergence and 60 S latitude. In so doing, it also established a commission of the original signatories and acceding parties called the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) to advance these aims through protection, scientific study, and rational use, such as harvesting, of those marine resources. Though separate, the Antarctic Treaty and CCAMLR, make up part the broader system of international agreements called the Antarctic Treaty System. Since 1982, the CCAMLR meets annually to implement binding conservations measures like the creation of 'protected areas' at the suggestion of the convention's scientific committee.\n\nIn 2009, the CCAMLR created the first 'high-seas' MPA entirely within international waters over the southern shelf of the South Orkney Islands. This area encompasses and all fishing activity including transhipment, and dumping or discharge of waste is prohibited with the exception of scientific research endeavors. On 28 October 2016, the CCAMLR, composed of 24 member countries and the European Union at the time, agreed to establish the world's largest marine park encompassing 1.55 million km (600,000 sq mi) in the Ross Sea after several years of failed negotiations. Establishment of the Ross Sea MPA required unanimity of the commission members and enforcement will begin in December 2017. However, due to a sunset provision inserted into the proposal, the new marine park will only be in force for 35 years.\n\nMany countries have established national targets, accompanied by action plans and implementations. The UN Council identified the need for countries to collaborate with each other to establish effective regional conservation plans. Some national targets are listed in the table below\n\nThe marine protected area network is still in its infancy. As of October 2010, approximately 6,800 MPAs had been established, covering 1.17% of global ocean area. Protected areas covered 2.86% of exclusive economic zones (EEZs). MPAs covered 6.3% of territorial seas. Many prohibit the use of harmful fishing techniques yet only 0.01% of the ocean's area is designated as a \"no take zone\". This coverage is far below the projected goal of 20%-30% Those targets have been questioned mainly due to the cost of managing protected areas and the conflict that protections have generated with human demand for marine goods and services.\n\nThe Table Mountain National Park Marine Protected Area is a marine protected area around the Cape Peninsula, in the vicinity of Cape Town, South Africa It was proclaimed in Government Gazette No. 26431 of 4 June 2004 in terms of the Marine Natural Resources Act, 18 of 1998.\n\nThe MPA is of value for conservation of a wide range of endemic species, and has considerable economic value as a tourist destination. It encloses a large number of recreational dive sites visited by local residents and tourists from further afield. The shark and whale watching tourist industries are also represented, and there are several popular surf breaks. The MPA includes controlled zones where extractive activities are allowed under permit, and smaller no-take zones. The MPA is administrated by the Table Mountain National Park, a branch of SANParks. \n\nThe marine ecology is unusually varied for an area of this size, as a result of the meeting of two major oceanic water masses near Cape Point, and the park extends into two coastal marine bioregions. The ecology of the west or \"Atlantic Seaboard\" side of the park is noticeably different in character and biodiversity to that of the east, or \"False Bay\" side. Both sides are classified as temperate waters, but there is a significant difference in average temperature, with the Atlantic side being noticeably colder.\n\nThe MPA contains culturally significant fish traps, historicalwrecks and traditional fishing communities, and is also important for commercial fisheries. Part of the West Coast rock lobster industry takes place within the MPA – as well as recreational and subsistence fishers, and an illegal poaching industry mostly targeting abalone, rock lobster and territorial linefish from the no-take zones.\n\nThe Greater Caribbean subdivision encompasses an area of about of ocean and 38 nations. The area includes island countries like the Bahamas and Cuba, and the majority of Central America. The Convention for Protection and Development of the Marine Environment of the Wider Caribbean Region (better known as the Cartagena Convention) was established in 1983. Protocols involving protected areas were ratified in 1990. As of 2008, the region hosted about 500 MPAs. Coral reefs are the best represented.\n\nTwo networks are under development, the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (a long barrier reef that borders the coast of much of Central America), and the \"Islands in the Stream\" program (covering the Gulf of Mexico).\n\nSoutheast Asia is a global epicenter for marine diversity. 12% of its coral reefs are in MPAs. The Philippines have some the world's best coral reefs and protect them to attract international tourism. Most of the Philippines' MPAs are established to secure protection for its coral reef and sea grass habitats. Indonesia has MPAs designed for tourism and relies on tourism as a main source of income.\n\nThe Philippines host one of the most highly biodiverse regions, with 464 reef-building coral species. Due to overfishing, destructive fishing techniques, and rapid coastal development, these are in rapid decline. The country has established some 600 MPAs. However, the majority are poorly enforced and are highly ineffective. However, some have positively impacted reef health, increased fish biomass, decreased coral bleaching and increased yields in adjacent fisheries. One notable example is the MPA surrounding Apo Island.\n\nLatin America has designated one large MPA system. As of 2008, 0.5% of its marine environment was protected, mostly through the use of small, multiple-use MPAs.\n\nThe South Pacific network ranges from Belize to Chile. Governments in the region adopted the Lima convention and action plan in 1981. An MPA-specific protocol was ratified in 1989. The permanent commission on the exploitation and conservation on the marine resources of the South Pacific promotes the exchange of studies and information among participants.\n\nThe region is currently running one comprehensive cross-national program, the Tropical Eastern Pacific Marine Corridor Network, signed in April 2004. The network covers about .\n\nOne alternative to imposing MPAs on an indigenous population is through the use of Indigenous Protected Areas, such as those in Australia.\n\nThe North Pacific network covers the western coasts of Mexico, Canada, and the U.S. The \"Antigua Convention\" and an action plan for the north Pacific region were adapted in 2002. Participant nations manage their own national systems. In 2010-2011, the State of California completed hearings and actions via the state Department of Fish and Game to establish new MPAs.\n\nPresident Barack Obama signed a proclamation on September 25, 2014, designating the world's largest marine reserve. The proclamation expanded the existing Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument, one of the world's most pristine tropical marine environments, to six times its current size, encompassing of protected area around these islands. Expanding the Monument protected the area's unique deep coral reefs and seamounts.\nIn April 2009, the US established a United States National System of Marine Protected Areas, which strengthens the protection of US ocean, coastal and Great Lakes resources. These large-scale MPAs should balance \"the interests of conservationists, fishers, and the public.\" As of 2009, 225 MPAs participated in the national system. Sites work together toward common national and regional conservation goals and priorities. NOAA's national marine protected areas center maintains a comprehensive inventory of all 1,600+ MPAs within the US exclusive economic zone. Most US MPAs.allow some type of extractive use. Fewer than 1% of U.S. waters prohibit all extractive activities.\n\nIn 1981 Olympic National Park became a marine protected area. The total protected site area is . 173.2 km of the area was an MPA. The national system is a mechanism to foster MPA collaboration. Sites that meet pertinent criteria are eligible to join the national system. Four entry criteria govern admission:\nIn 1999, California adopted the Marine Life Protection Act, establishing the first state law requiring a comprehensive, science-based MPA network. The state created the Marine Life Protection Act Initiative. The MLPA Blue Ribbon Task Force and stakeholder and scientific advisory groups ensure that the process uses the science and public participation.\n\nThe MLPA Initiative established a plan to create California's statewide MPA network by 2011 in several steps. The Central Coast step was successfully completed in September, 2007. The North Central Coast step was completed in 2010. The South Coast and North Coast steps were expected to go into effect in 2012.\n\nIn exchange for some of its national debt being written off, the Seychelles designates two new marine protected areas in the Indian Ocean, covering about . It is the result of a financial deal, brokered in 2016 by The Nature Conservancy.\n\nThere are a number of marine protected areas around the coastline of the United Kingdom, known as Marine Conservation Zones in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland, Marine Protection Areas in Scotland. They are to be found in inshore and offshore waters.\n\nThe United Kingdom is also creating marine protected reserves around several British Overseas Territories.\nThe UK is responsible for 6.8 million square kilometres of ocean around the world, larger than all but four other countries.\n\nThe Chagos Marine Protected Area in the Indian Ocean was established in 2010 as a \"no-take-zone\". With a total surface area of , it was the world's largest contiguous marine reserve. In March 2015, the UK announced the creation of a marine reserve around the Pitcairn Islands in the Southern Pacific Ocean to protect its special biodiversity. The area of surpassed the Chagos Marine Protected Area as the world's largest contiguous marine reserve, until the August 2016 expansion of the Papahānaumokuākea Marine National Monument in the United States to .\n\nIn January 2016, the UK government announced the intention to create a marine protected area around Ascension Island. The protected area will be , half of which will be closed to fishing.\n\nThe Natura 2000 ecological MPA network in the European Union included MPAs in the North Atlantic, the Mediterranean Sea and the Baltic Sea. The member states had to define NATURA 2000 areas at sea in their Exclusive Economic Zone.\n\nTwo assessments, conducted thirty years apart, of three Mediterranean MPAs, demonstrate that proper protection allows commercially valuable and slow-growing red coral (Corallium rubrum) to produce large colonies in shallow water of less than . Shallow-water colonies outside these decades-old MPAs are typically very small. The MPAs are Banyuls, Carry-le-Rouet and Scandola, off the island of Corsica.\n\n\n\n\nManagers and scientists use geographic information systems and remote sensing to map and analyze MPAs. NOAA Coastal Services Center compiled an \"Inventory of GIS-Based Decision-Support Tools for MPAs.\" The report focuses on GIS tools with the highest utility for MPA processes. Remote sensing uses advances in aerial photography image capture, pop-up archival satellite tags, satellite imagery, acoustic data, and radar imagery. Mathematical models that seek to reflect the complexity of the natural setting may assist in planning harvesting strategies and sustaining fishing grounds.\n\nCoral reef systems have been in decline worldwide. Causes include overfishing, pollution and ocean acidification. As of 2013 30% of the world's reefs were severely damaged. Approximately 60% will be lost by 2030 without enhanced protection. Marine reserves with \"no take zones\" are the most effective form of protection. Only about 0.01% of the world's coral reefs are inside effective MPAs.\n\nMPAs can be an effective tool to maintain fish populations; see refuge (ecology). The general concept is to create overpopulation within the MPA. The fish expand into the surrounding areas to reduce crowding, increasing the population of unprotected areas. This helps support local fisheries in the surrounding area, while maintaining a healthy population within the MPA. Such MPAs are most commonly used for coral reef ecosystems.\n\nOne example is at Goat Island Bay in New Zealand, established in 1977. Research gathered at Goat Bay documented the spillover effect. \"Spillover and larval export—the drifting of millions of eggs and larvae beyond the reserve—have become central concepts of marine conservation\". This positively impacted commercial fishermen in surrounding areas.\n\nAnother unexpected result of MPAs is their impact on predatory marine species, which in some conditions can increase in population. When this occurs, prey populations decrease. One study showed that in 21 out of 39 cases, \"trophic cascades,\" caused a decrease in herbivores, which led to an increase in the quantity of plant life. (This occurred in the Malindi Kisite and Watamu Marian National Parks in Kenya; the Leigh Marine Reserve in New Zealand; and Brackett's Landing Conservation Area in the US.\n\nBoth CBD and IUCN have criteria for setting up and maintaining MPA networks, which emphasize 4 factors:\n\nMisconceptions about MPAs include the belief that all MPAs are no-take or no-fishing areas. However, less than 1 percent of US waters are no-take areas. MPA activities can include consumption fishing, diving and other activities.\n\nAnother misconception is that most MPAs are federally managed. Instead, MPAs are managed under hundreds of laws and jurisdictions. They can be exist in state, commonwealth, territory and tribal waters.\n\nAnother misconception is that a federal mandate dedicates a set percentage of ocean to MPAs. Instead the mandate requires an evaluation of current MPAs and creates a public resource on current MPAs.\n\nSome existing and proposed MPAs have been criticized by indigenous populations and their supporters, as impinging on land usage rights. For example, the proposed Chagos Protected Area in the Chagos Islands is contested by Chagossians deported from their homeland in 1965 by the British as part of the creation of the British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT). According to WikiLeaks CableGate documents, the UK proposed that the BIOT become a \"marine reserve\" with the aim of preventing the former inhabitants from returning to their lands and to protect the joint UK/US military base on Diego Garcia Island.\n\nOther critiques include: their cost (higher than that of passive management), conflicts with human development goals, inadequate scope to address factors such as climate change and invasive species.\n\nIn 2010, one study found that fish larvae can drift on ocean currents and reseed fish stocks at a distant location. This finding demonstrated that fish populations can be connected to distant locations through the process of larval drift.\n\nThey investigated the yellow tang, because larva of this species stay in the general area of the reef in which they first settle. The tropical yellow tang is heavily fished by the aquarium trade. By the late 1990s, their stocks were collapsing. Nine MPAs were established off the coast of Hawaii to protect them. Larval drift has helped them establish themselves in different locations, and the fishery is recovering. \"We've clearly shown that fish larvae that were spawned inside marine reserves can drift with currents and replenish fished areas long distances away,\" said coauthor Mark Hixon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11718051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11718051", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Montenegro)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Montenegro)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice in the Government of Montenegro (Montenegrin: Ministarstvo Pravde u Vladi Crne Gore, MPVCG) is the ministry in the Government of Montenegro which is in charge of the nation's justice system. \n\n"}
{"id": "24709716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24709716", "title": "Molien v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals", "text": "Molien v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals\n\nMolien v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, (1980), was a case decided by the Supreme Court of California that first recognized that a \"direct victim\" of negligence can recover damages for emotional distress without an accompanying physical injury. \n\nA doctor employed by the defendant hospital incorrectly diagnosed a patient as having syphilis. The doctor encouraged the patient to disclose the illness to her husband, and when she communicated the erroneous diagnosis to her husband, their marital relationship was destroyed. When it was determined that the diagnosis was incorrect, the husband brought an action against the hospital for negligent infliction of emotional distress. \n\nThe court ruled that the risk of harm to the husband of the patient from a misdiagnosis was reasonably foreseeable, and that the tortious conduct was directed at the patient and her husband. As a \"direct victim,\" the strict criteria for negligent infliction of emotional distress need not be fulfilled.\n"}
{"id": "1431296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1431296", "title": "NSIN", "text": "NSIN\n\nA National Securities Identifying Number, or NSIN, is a generic nine-digit alpha numeric code which identifies a fungible security. The NSIN is issued by a national numbering agency (NNA) designated for that country. Regional substitute NNAs have been allocated the task of functioning as NNAs in those countries where NNAs have not yet been established. NSINs are used as part of the makeup of a product's ISIN.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41626825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41626825", "title": "Nationality law of the Federated States of Micronesia", "text": "Nationality law of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nThe nationality law of the Federated States of Micronesia determines who is or may become a citizen or national of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). Article III of the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia provides the basis for nationality law, while specific provisions are elaborated in 7 FSMC § 201 \"et seq\".\n\nPrior to the establishment of the Federated States of Micronesia, there existed the status of citizen of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. Trust Territory citizenship could be acquired through \"jus soli\" by birth in the Trust Territory (except if another citizenship was acquired at birth or later), through \"jus sanguinis\" in the case of a person born outside the Trust Territory to parents who were citizens of the Trust Territory by taking up residence in the Trust Territory before age 21, or by naturalization upon approval by the High Commissioner.\n\nUnder Article III, Section 1 of the Constitution, \"A person who is a citizen of the Trust Territory immediately prior to the effective date of this Constitution and a domiciliary of a District ratifying this Constitution is a citizen and national of the Federated States of Micronesia.\" Article III, Sections 4 and 5 of the Constitution provided for a period of six months within which certain other Trust Territory citizens could become citizens and nationals of the FSM upon application to an FSM court: domiciliaries of other districts of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and people who became United States nationals under the Covenant to establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.\n\nAfter independence, citizenship of the Federated States of Micronesia is based on \"jus sanguinis\". Article III, Section 2 of the Constitution provides that \"a person born of parents one or both of whom are citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia is a citizen and national of the Federated States by birth\".\n\nArticle III, Section 3 of the Constitution, as well as 7 FSMC § 201, prohibit dual citizenship, stating that \"A citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia who is recognized as a citizen of another nation shall, within 3 years of his 18th birthday, or within 3 years of the effective date of this Constitution, whichever is later, register his intent to remain a citizen of the Federated States and renounce his citizenship of another nation. If he fails to comply with this Section, he becomes a national of the Federated States of Micronesia.\"\n\nIn 2004, Public Law 13-65 proposed to repeal Article III, Section 3 of the constitution, which as President Joseph Urusemal described it, \"eliminates the constitutional barrier to dual citizenship\", but would not actually permit dual citizenship unless Congress passed legislation defining cases in which dual citizenship would be permitted. When put to a referendum during the 2005 elections, however, this amendment failed to garner the 75% support in the popular vote that it required in order to become effective.\n\nNaturalization is the conferral of FSM citizenship on an alien, or on an FSM national who is not a citizen. Naturalization procedures originally only applied to foreigners, but in 2008, Public Law 15-27 created procedures for FSM nationals to become FSM citizens as well, if they renounced the citizenship of other countries and followed certain other procedures. Naturalization is provided for in 7 FSMC § 204. Under regulations, naturalization requires a language assessment to confirm that the applicant has \"an ability to\nread, write, and speak in words in ordinary usage\" in the language of the state where he or she resides. Naturalization may be cancelled pursuant to § 205. Furthermore, under § 208, \"any person who obtains naturalization through concealment of a material fact or willful misrepresentation in applying for naturalization, upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned for a period of not more than two years, or fined not more than $10,000, or both.\"\n\nNaturalization is quite difficult to obtain. By 1994, very few foreigners had been granted citizenship. 7 FSMC § 204 requires \"Congress' recommendation by bill\" prior to the President naturalizing a person as a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia. According to the \"United States' Country Reports on Human Rights Practices\", Congress exercised this power for the first time only in 1998, and continues to exercise it only on rare occasions. In 2013, Sei Francis Uemoto, the Pohnpei-born son of a Japanese immigrant father and Pohnpeian mother, who had lived in Japan until 1983 and since then in Pohnpei, became the first FSM national to be naturalized as an FSM citizen under the new procedures since 2008.\n\n7 FSMC § 206 names five grounds for loss of FSM citizenship. The first of these is \"voluntarily obtain[ing] naturalization in a foreign state upon one's application\". Though thousands of FSM citizens move to the United States under the Compact of Free Association, according to a U.S. Government Accountability Office report, few migrants from countries with Compacts of Free Association with the United States take action to become U.S. citizens, as an example citing data from the former Immigration and Naturalization Service that only 7 FSM citizens naturalized as U.S. citizens in 1998. (FSM citizens must still qualify for U.S. permanent residence through normal procedures in order to qualify for naturalization, and the CFA does not offer them special privileges in this regard.)\n\nThe remaining four grounds for loss of FSM citizenship are:\n\nAdditionally, 7 FSMC § 204 provides that a dual citizen who does not \"register his intent to remain a citizen of the Federated States and renounce his citizenship of another nation\" becomes a national rather than a citizen.\n\n"}
{"id": "31882008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31882008", "title": "Neo-classical contract", "text": "Neo-classical contract\n\nA Neo-classical contract is a form of contract, defined by McNeil, describing a contract dependent upon trilateral governance, in which \"third party assistance\" is used for resolving disputes or evaluating performance. Such contracts form a distinct group, along with classical and relational contracts, in McNeil's system of classification.\n"}
{"id": "11590237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11590237", "title": "Norfolk Four", "text": "Norfolk Four\n\nThe \"Norfolk Four\" are four men, Derek Tice, Danial Williams, Joseph J. Dick Jr., and Eric C. Wilson, who were convicted in 1999 for the 1997 rape and murder of Michelle Moore-Bosko in Norfolk, Virginia. A federal judge ruled in 2016 that the four men, who were convicted based on a false confession, were actually innocent.\n\nThe convictions of the Norfolk Four were controversial, as their convictions were largely based on confessions which the men and their supporters maintained were coerced with threats of receiving the death penalty if they did not plead guilty. Organizations such as the Innocence Project protested the convictions as a miscarriage of justice, while Moore-Bosko's parents continue to believe that all those convicted were participants in the crime.\n\nThree of the four men, Tice, Williams, and Dick, were sentenced to one or more life sentences in prison without the possibility of parole due to their having either pleaded guilty to or having been convicted of the murder, while Wilson was convicted of rape and sentenced to 8½ years in prison. Three other men, Geoffrey A. Farris, John E. Danser, and Richard D. Pauley, Jr., were also initially charged with the crime, but the charges against them were later dropped. A fifth man, Omar Ballard, was also convicted of the crime and was sentenced to 100 years in prison, 59 of which were suspended. He is the only man whose DNA matches that found at the scene, and his confession states that he committed the crime by himself, with none of the other men involved. Forensic evidence is consistent with his story that there were no other participants.\n\nIn 2016, U.S. District Judge John A. Gibney Jr. ruled that \"by any measure,\" the evidence showed that Williams and Dick did not commit the rape and murder to which they pleaded guilty, and that the evidence showed that \"no sane human being\" could convict them. Tice's conviction had by that time already been overturned, and the efforts of Wilson to be formally declared innocent were rejected by the courts because he had served his entire sentence. On March 21, 2017, the Norfolk Four were granted absolute pardons by Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe.\n\nOn July 8, 1997 Bill Bosko returned home after a military assignment to find his wife Michelle murdered, having been raped, stabbed, and strangled to death. At the time it was noted that there were no signs of a break-in or a struggle inside the apartment. As the investigation progressed, detective Robert Glenn Ford questioned residents of Moore-Bosko's development and was informed by Tamika Taylor, a friend of Moore-Bosko's, that another neighbor, Danial Williams, was \"obsessed\" with the murdered woman. Williams lived in an apartment near Bosko's with his wife and their roommate, Joe Dick. Detective Ford interrogated both Williams and Dick and obtained confessions from them but their confessions were inconsistent both with each other and with the evidence. In the confessions, Williams claimed that he acted alone while Dick stated that he and Williams had committed the crime together. Dick also claimed to have committed the crime between the hours of 9 and 11 p.m., which clashed with Taylor's claims that she and Michelle had remained out from noon until 11:30 p.m. as well as naval logs that reportedly showed that Dick was on duty on the at the time of the murder. The Chief Petty Officer that Dick reported to commented that he had taken special interest in Dick due to what he saw as the man's diminished mental capacity; he believed it to be \"virtually impossible for Dick to sneak off, commit the crime and sneak back on board\". Both men also claimed to have committed violent attacks or sexual assaults on the victim which were inconsistent with the physical evidence, such as Williams claiming to have beaten Michelle with a shoe and assaulting her to the face three times. Instead the coroner's report stated that Michelle had died due to being stabbed and strangled, upon which point Williams changed his confession to state that he \"may have grabbed Michelle's neck and that he had used a knife he found in the bedroom to kill her.\" Neither Williams nor Dick could provide an accurate description of the knife.\n\nDNA evidence taken from the scene did not match Williams or Dick, which led a jailhouse informant to prompt Dick to name a co-conspirator. Eric Wilson was then named. The DNA did not match Wilson either and Dick indicated that a fourth man, whom he called \"George\" but whom he identified from photographs as Derek Tice, was also involved. Tice confessed and implicated three more men in the crime, and insisted that the group had broken into the apartment, which contradicted earlier evidence that showed that the apartment did not appear to have been broken into. Since the DNA evidence did not match Tice, the police got Dick to name three other men as co-conspirators. These men were ultimately never charged because they had ironclad alibis including one who was internet chatting with his girlfriend at the time of the murder and another who records showed had withdrawn money from a cash machine hundreds of miles away within minutes of when the murder had occurred. Critics of the police case also noted that the stab wounds to Moore-Bosko were all of a uniform depth and clustered closely together. This seemed to contradict the prosecution's assertion that multiple men had taken turns stabbing her, but seemed consistent with a scenario where one assailant stabbed her multiple times.\n\nWilliams, Wilson, and Tice were each brought to trial in 1999, with Williams pleading guilty to rape and capital murder in the hopes of getting a life sentence in exchange for a stipulation of facts. Lawyers for the three men mentioned that none of their DNA matched that found at Michelle's apartment, to which prosecutors stated that the lack of DNA evidence couldn't disprove that the defendants weren't at the scene. Williams was found guilty of rape and sentenced to eight and a half years, while Dick received life without parole and Tice received two consecutive life sentences.\n\nOn January 15, 1998, Omar Ballard pleaded guilty to the rape of a fourteen-year-old girl. In February of the same year, he sent a letter to a female acquaintance threatening her and indicating that he had murdered Michelle Moore Bosko. It was later discovered that Ballard was an associate of Michelle Moore Bosko. Tamika Taylor, who had introduced Ballard to the Boskos and knew about his history of violence towards women, had told the police that they should investigate him as a possible suspect. Ballard was later investigated for the crime and arrested after it was discovered that his DNA matched that found at the crime scene. Ballard confessed to the crime, giving a description that aligned with the physical evidence. Despite police pressure to implicate Williams, Tice, Dick, and Wilson, Ballard insisted that he had committed the crime alone, saying that \"those four who opened their mouths were stupid\". The police incorporated Ballard into their theory of the crime, but insisted that Ballard refused to name his accomplices for fear of being labeled a \"snitch\" and that the other men, who had been willing to implicate others in the crime, were afraid of Ballard and thus refused to implicate him.\n\nWilliams appealed his verdict but was denied in 2000. Tice's conviction was reversed in 2002 by the Virginia Court of Appeals because Judge Poston had not allowed Tice's attorney to question Ballard about his written confession. During the retrial, Poston refused to allow the confession or statements in as evidence because they were not properly authenticated, but the judge did allow Tice's attorney to read the confession letter aloud. Despite the retrial, Tice was again sentenced to life in prison.\n\nTice's conviction was overturned on November 27, 2006 by a circuit court on constitutional grounds, but the conviction was reinstated by the Virginia Supreme Court. Tice filed a petition for habeas corpus with a United States District Court, and on September 14, 2009, U.S. District Judge Richard L. Williams vacated Tice's murder and rape convictions, on the ground that Tice had been denied his constitutional right to effective counsel. On November 19, 2009, Judge Williams ruled that prosecutors can retry Tice. On April 20, 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed Judge Williams' rulings vacating Tice's convictions. Tice was later freed in 2011 after the Fourth Circuit ruled that Tice's confession should have been thrown out of court.\n\nWilson was released in 2005 after the conditional pardon (see below), but must register as a sex offender for the rest of his life. In March 2010, he asked the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia for a writ of habeas corpus challenging his conviction. The court refused to hear Wilson's case, saying that since he was not in prison, on probation, on parole or on supervised release, he was not in custody and therefore could not petition for habeas. The Fourth Circuit also refused to hear the case.\n\nFormer detective Glenn Ford was later indicted on May 2010 on unrelated extortion charges of accepting payments from criminal suspects in return for favorable treatment, and was found guilty of two of the four counts against him. This prompted attorneys for the Norfolk Four to call for full exoneration of their clients and in 2013, Yale Law School's Supreme Court Advocacy Clinic filed a petition for the Supreme Court to clear Wilson's record of his crimes. Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli did not file a response, but the Supreme Court ordered him to file a brief by April 25, 2013. On June 24, 2013, Wilson's petition was denied. The case is Wilson v. Flaherty, No. 12-986.\n\nIn 2016, U.S. District Judge John A. Gibney Jr. ruled that \"by any measure,\" the evidence showed that Williams and Dick did not commit the rape and murder to which they pleaded guilty, and that the evidence showed that \"no sane human being\" could convict them. Tice's conviction had by that time already been overturned by that point, and the efforts of Wilson to be formally declared innocent were rejected by the courts because he had served his entire sentence.\n\nIn 2005 attorneys for Dick, Williams and Tice petitioned for clemency from Virginia governor Mark Warner. Warner did not rule on the petition, and it was considered by his successor, Governor Tim Kaine. The claims of innocence were backed by several FBI agents as well as eleven of the jurors who initially convicted them. On August 6, 2009, Kaine granted a conditional pardon to Dick, Tice, and Williams, releasing them from prison while not erasing their convictions. Part of the conditional release states that the three men are required to register as sex offenders and felons. Eleven jurors in the original case submitted affidavits in support of the sailors' clemency request before the Virginia State Parole Board. The jurors stated that they believed the men were not guilty.\n\nOn March 21, 2017, the Norfolk Four were granted absolute pardons by Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe. In a statement, a spokesman for the governor said: \"These pardons close the final chapter on a grave injustice that has plagued these 4 men for nearly 20 years. While former Governor Kaine had initially granted conditional pardons in the case, more exculpatory information discovered since then and detailed by Judge John Gibney during exhaustive evidentiary proceedings indicate that absolute pardons are appropriate.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6420379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6420379", "title": "Plastic lumber", "text": "Plastic lumber\n\nPlastic lumber (PL) is a plastic form of lumber (timber) made of virgin or recycled plastic (in which case it can be called RPL). It is made of 100% plastic, compared with wood-plastic composite lumber.\n\nWidely employed in outdoor decking, it is also used for molding and trim and garden furniture such as park benches.\n\nResistant to cracking and splitting when appropriately installed, plastic lumber can be molded with or without simulated wood grain details. Even with a wood grain design, PL is still easy to distinguish visually from natural timber: the grains are the same uniform color as the rest of the material.\n\nManufacturers claim plastic lumber is more environmentally-friendly and requires less maintenance than wood/plastic composites or rot-resistant wood. Unlike wood-plastic composite lumber, plastic lumber is 100% recyclable after its original intended use.\n\nPlastic lumber is composed of virgin or waste plastics including HDPE, PVC, PP, ABS, PS and PLA. The powder or pellets are mixed to a dough-like consistency at roughly and then extruded or molded to the desired shape. Additives such as colorants, coupling agents, stabilizers, blowing agents, reinforcing agents, foaming agents, and lubricants help tailor the end product to the target application. The material is formed into both solid and hollow profiles or into injection molded parts and products.\n\nResin, regrind, and most of the additives are combined and processed in a pelletizing extruder. The new material pellets are formed in a mold and cooled. Pre-distribution testing can help determine the optimal combination of chemical agents, design, agitation, and other flow aid strategies for the specific material in use. Modern testing facilities are available to evaluate materials and determine the optimal combination of equipment components to assure the highest level of accuracy and reliability. Computerized performance test reports document equipment performance.\n\nPlastic lumber can be molded to meet almost any desired spatial condition, a major advantage over wood. It can also be bent and fixed to form strong arching curves. Plastic lumber works like wood - it can be shaped using conventional woodworking tools. At the same time, it is waterproof and resists all types of rot and mold, although it is not as rigid as wood and may slightly deform in extremely hot weather. Plastic lumber is not sensitive to staining from a variety of agents. A major selling point of this material is it doesn't need to be painted. It is manufactured in a variety of colors, and is widely available in grays and earth tones.\n\nWhile the compressive properties of plastic lumber are equal or greater than those of wood, the modulus of elasticity is very low. Moreover, plastic lumber is subject to far more creep than wood.\n\nUse in load-bearing structures requires different considerations from wood.\n\nPlastic lumber can present issues with fire containment: it performed worse than a variety of wood and composite materials in a test.\n\nPlastic lumber also deforms easily at high temperature, planning for the event of fire needs to take this into account.\n\nASTM has developed seven standard test methods to measure the properties of PL:\n\n\nPlastic lumber is used in such applications as:\n\n"}
{"id": "25856578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25856578", "title": "School of Diplomacy", "text": "School of Diplomacy\n\nThe School of Diplomacy (), or the School of Vertical and Horizontal Alliances was a political and diplomatic clique during the Warring States period of Chinese history (476-220 BCE). According to the \"Book of Han\", the school was one of the Nine Schools of Thought ().\n\nAccording to the \"Han Fei Zi\", a contemporary work on Legalist Philosophy, supporters of \"Vertical Alliance\" encourage the weak multitude to attack the one strong side whilst the Horizontal Alliance promote the one strong side attacking the weak multitude. They are all fickle and capricious, change sides frequently and are unable to decide who their master is. Both Su Qin of the Vertical Alliance clique and Zhang Yi of the Horizontal Alliance clique issue many plans and schemes that are politically subjective.'\n\nThe origins of the terms \"Vertical\" and \"Horizontal\" are geographic and are based on either a North-South axis (i.e. vertical) or an East-West axis (i.e. horizontal). Thus the six states allied on the North-South axis were known as the \"Vertical Alliance\" whilst those on the East-West axis aligned with the State of Qin were termed the \"Horizontal Alliance\".\n\n\"Zong\" indicates the \"He Zong\", or Vertical Alliance, the \"weak multitude against the one strong side\", made up of the six states of Qi, Chu, Yan, Han, Zhao and Wei united against Qin. \"Heng\" indicates the \"Lian Heng\", or Horizontal Alliance, the \"one strong side to smash the weak multitude\", thus illustrating the different diplomatic policies of the two sides.\n\nThe School of Diplomacy was one of the nine styles of the ten Schools of Thought of the Warring States period and starts with an objective point of view to reach the required goal. The school’s adherents were always an active group on the political stage during the Warring States period. Moreover, they played a decisive role and were described as extremely powerful and capable, constantly struggling to manipulate the situation.\n\nOriginated by \"Guiguzi\", the School of Diplomacy’s main adherents were Su Qin, Zhang Yi (Su’s disciple), Gan Mao, Sima Cuo, Yue Yi, Fan Sui, Cai Ze, Zou Ji, Mao Sui, Li Yiji and Kuai Tong as detailed in the \"Annals of the Warring States\".\n\nThe few principal written records of the School of Diplomacy that exist today are the thirteenth chapter of the \"Book of Gui\" or \"Guiguzi\", the thirty-third chapter of \"Annals of the Warring States\" (not about the School of Diplomacy’s followers but primarily the words and actions of its advisors as well as actual combat case studies), the thirty-first chapter of \"Su Zi\" and the tenth chapter of \"Zhang Zi\". The seventh chapter of the \"Benjing Yifu\" appendix to the \"Guiguzi\" describes the mental and moral cultivation methods used by the School of Diplomacy; the \"Benjing\" covers the ideas behind the basic guiding principles whilst the \"Yinfu\" consists of very mysterious concealed writings. The reader can comprehend these but is unable to discover their essential meaning. The \"Guiguzi\" is a book of theory that is complete in every detail and very subtly written, making its ideas hard to express. More importantly the work requires study and use in order to understand the nuances of its meaning. The \"Annals of the Warring States\" is a well-written rhetorical compendium the words and actions of the strategists of the School of Diplomacy who were all resourceful, intelligent, aware of the actual situation and gifted in the use of language.\n"}
{"id": "37747416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37747416", "title": "Single whip law", "text": "Single whip law\n\nThe Single Whip Law or the \"Single Whip Reform\" () was a fiscal law first instituted during the middle Ming dynasty, in the early 16th century, and then promulgated throughout the empire in 1580 by Zhang Juzheng.\n\nThe measure aimed primarily to simplify the complex fiscal code under Ming law, by commuting most obligations towards the central government - from land and poll taxes to the labour obligations of the peasantry and the tributes of prefectural and county officials - into a single silver payment, at a level based on the population and cultivated land in each prefecture. Therefore, by reducing complexity, the Single Whip law reduced the costs of tax collection, while also increasing the tax base.\n\nThe unit of tax collection was changed from rice to silver, which led to an increase in the import of silver into China from Spain-controlled America and Japan. Because of the sheer amount of silver being imported into China, inflation occurred until the silver taxpaying system was no longer sustainable. The Single Whip Law led, in the long term, to the overthrow of the Ming dynasty, but it also increased European trade in the region.\n"}
{"id": "19107140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19107140", "title": "Strategic sustainable investing", "text": "Strategic sustainable investing\n\nStrategic sustainable investing (SSI) is an investment strategy that recognizes and rewards leading companies that are moving society towards sustainability. SSI relies on a consensus-based scientific definition of sustainability, and the assumption that ‘\"Backcasting from Principles of Sustainability\"’, whereby a vision of a sustainable future is set as the reference point for developing strategic actions, is the preferred approach to strategically move a company towards sustainability. It was developed by researchers at the Blekinge Institute of Technology in Sweden.\n\nSSI outlines that the financial investment will offer a competitive risk-adjusted return, while providing investment capital to companies that are actively attempting to become more sustainable. It implies lower exposure to sustainability-related risks and it considers financial metrics together with environmental, social, and governance (ESG) aspects, as well as strategy analyses to educate investment decision-making.\n\nCharacteristics of SSI:\n• Lower sustainability risk exposure \n• A definition of sustainability based on scientific consensus \n• Primarily driven by movement towards sustainability\n• Considers financial, ESG, and strategy analysis\n\nSSI operates by prioritizing investment capital allocation to companies that are taking the lead in shifting away from unsustainable behaviour towards new ways of doing business. This capital allocation will provide an incentive for companies to move forward in a sustainable direction. This movement is reported in corporate social responsibility (CSR) and other extra-financial reports, but is also recorded in traditional areas of a firm’s financial balance sheets.\n\nBy incorporating sustainability investment and returns into traditional financial reporting, a clearer picture of the bottom-line impact of a company’s actions towards sustainability is made available. In this positive reinforcing loop, greater investor returns and increased movement towards sustainability are generated with every cycle.\n\n\"Causal loop diagram illustrating the strategic sustainable investment\"\n\nInstitutional investors, such as mutual and pension funds, take a longer-term position on investments and are thus ideally suited to incorporate SSI strategies.\n\nThe theoretical foundation of SSI is strongly linked to \"strategic sustainable development\", made popular by The Natural Step and its founder Dr. Karl-Henrik Robèrt.\n\nThis strategy resembles socially responsible investing (SRI), a growing practice amongst ethical investors. Nevertheless, SSI recognizes the gaps of SRI pointed by several academics and practitioners and presents some alternatives.\n\n\"Main differences between traditional investment strategies, SRI and SSI:\"\nIn order to evolve current SRI and traditional investment practices into Strategic Sustainable Investment, two gaps must be considered:\n\na. The recognition of companies with true leading strategies for a sustainable future\nb. A robust and well defined link must be made between movement towards sustainability and higher investment returns\n\nThe SSI analysis tool addresses the first gap by measuring a company’s strategy for addressing sustainability. It allows investors to recognize which companies are leading the transition in a new direction, and which are most likely to be strong performers in tomorrow’s market.\n\nThis tool is divided in two main parts: the emerging sustainability issue (esi) chart and the strategy analysis component:\n\nThe Sectoral Emerging Sustainability Issue (ESI) chart is used to identify which aspects of a determined market sector will become a socio-environmental problem. In the common sense, an issue is called ‘emergent’ when it gets media exposure. Instead, the Tool relies on scientific Principles of sustainability to identify what is emergent.\n\nIt exposes which Sustainability Issues present high risks for companies within that sector in the short-term; as well as which Issues will be emerging in the medium and long-terms. Due to differences within a sector, the Sectoral ESI Chart should be made as specific as needed, being flexible to account for various geographical locations and sub-sector subtleties.\n\nThe process of composing an ESI chart follows:\n\nOnce a sector is selected for an ESI analysis, a list of relevant sustainability issues is assembled. This baseline analysis will result in a list of issues outlining the subject sector’s strengths and concerns that impact society and the environment. Next, prioritization colours are assigned to each sustainability issue: red for very high priority; orange for high priority; yellow for medium priority, and green for low priority according to its assessment in each of three categories: urgency, severity, and systematic contribution.\n\n\"Urgency\" assesses the time frame pressing each Issue. The \"severity\" assesses the seriousness of the Issue, in terms of its potential consequences for the environment, society, and companies within that sector. The \"systematic contribution\" is used to gauge the sector’s contribution to the overall Issue.\n\n\"To fill out the Chart, Researchers follow this process flow.\"\n\nThe Strategic Plan element assesses the subject company’s planned goals in relation to the emerging sustainability issue (ESI). The qualitative description includes, but is not limited to, information regarding: public commitments planned operational and business initiatives, political action/ lobbying, and third party partnerships (with NGOs, consultative firms etc.). There is also a comment on the subject company’s core business in relation to the ESI; as this will assist in determining the subject company’s exposure to the emerging risk.\n\nThe strategic actions element looks at assessing the subject company’s recent actions taken in relation to the emerging sustainability issue (ESI), thus determining whether the subject company is ‘walking the talk’ in comparison to the vision and goals outlined.\nThe subject company’s actions are seen through the lens of strategic sustainable development, and thus three questions are emphasized as a mental guideline:\n\na. Does this action provide a competitive return on investment (ROI)?\nb. Is this action taking the subject company in the right direction?\nc. Is this action a versatile platform?\n\nThe strategy analysis graph shows the subject company’s planned path for dealing with the ESI, tangible progress made, and if existent, government regulations. The trajectory of the subject company’s planned path reveals the extent of their future risk exposure. This graph is placed in the center of the strategy analysis page.\n\nThe assurance assessment provides an overall impression of the validity of the information gathered. This assessment may be applied if the data is verified by an external third party, or if discrepancy is evident between different sources of information used on the report.\n\n\nStrategic Sustainable Development\n"}
{"id": "210791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210791", "title": "Swedish Act of Succession", "text": "Swedish Act of Succession\n\nThe 1810 Act of Succession (; in English literally \"The 1810 order of succession\") is one of four \"Fundamental Laws of the Realm\" () and thus forms part of the Swedish Constitution. The Act regulates the line of succession to the Swedish Throne and the conditions which eligible members of the Swedish Royal Family must abide by in order to remain in it. \n\nIt was jointly adopted by the Riksdag of the Estates, convened in Örebro on 26 September 1810, and Charles XIII, as a logical consequence following the election on 21 August of Jean Baptiste Bernadotte as Crown Prince. \n\nThe actual contents of the Act, save the solemn preamble, has been thoroughly rewritten over the years: the most notable change occurred in 1980 when the core principle of agnatic primogeniture (male succession only) was changed in favor of absolute primogeniture (eldest child regardless of sex). \n\nThe Act of Succession was adopted by the Riksdag of the Estates assembled at Örebro in 1810, upon electing Charles XIV John (Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte) as the heir to King Charles XIII. This happened at a tumultuous time for Sweden, as only one year earlier the former king, Gustav IV Adolf (and his sons) had been deposed and replaced by his childless uncle, Charles XIII. At the same time the Finnish War was coming to an end and Finland, then a part of Sweden proper, was held by Russia. The authoritarian constitution of 1772 was abolished and power was returned to parliament by the new Instrument of Government adopted on June 6, 1809. From 1814 to 1905 the Act of Succession also regulated succession to the Norwegian throne, due to the union of Sweden-Norway.\n\nThe Act in the current version specifies that:\nIf any of these provisions are violated: all rights of succession for the person concerned and all descendants are lost.\n\nIn its original version, the Act mandated that a Swedish prince could only marry into families deemed to be of equal rank, or forfeit for himself and his future descendants all dynastic rights. The key wording was \"private man's daughter\" (), a term which in Swedish jurisprudence was understood to include all non-royal persons, including the aristocracy. In 1938 the statutory provision which required a spouse of royal birth was changed and the prohibition only extended to a \"private Swedish man's daughter\" (). \n\nA total of five Swedish princes lost their rights of succession due to violation of that provision: Oscar in 1888, Lennart in 1932, Sigvard in 1934, Carl in 1937 and Carl Johan in 1946. There is since 1980 no statutory limitation, based on either nationality or royal rank, on whom a prince or princess can marry, apart from the fact that permission must be granted.\n\nIn 1980, the rule of succession was changed from agnatic primogeniture to absolute primogeniture. This change in effect created Victoria (born 1977) heir apparent, passing over her younger brother Prince Carl Philip (born 1979).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "347405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347405", "title": "Taille", "text": "Taille\n\nThe taille () was a direct land tax on the French peasantry and non-nobles in \"Ancien Régime\" France. The tax was imposed on each household and was based on how much land it held.\n\nOriginally only an \"exceptional\" tax (i.e. imposed and collected in times of need, as the king was expected to survive on the revenues of the \"domaine royal\", or lands that belonged to him directly), the taille became permanent in 1439, when the right to collect taxes in support of a standing army was granted to Charles VII of France during the Hundred Years' War. Unlike modern income taxes, the total amount of the taille was first set (after the Estates General was suspended in 1484) by the French king from year to year, and this amount was then apportioned among the various provinces for collection.\n\nExempted from the tax were clergy and nobles (except for non-noble lands they held in \"pays d'état\" [see below]), officers of the crown, military personnel, magistrates, university professors and students, and franchises (\"villes franches\") such as Paris.\n\nThe provinces were of three sorts, the \"pays d'élection\", the \"pays d'état\" and the \"pays d'imposition\". In the \"pays d'élection\" (the longest held possessions of the French crown; some of these provinces had had the equivalent autonomy of a \"pays d'état\" in an earlier period, but had lost it through the effects of royal reforms) the assessment and collection of taxes were entrusted to elected officials (at least originally; later, these positions were bought), and the tax was generally \"personal\", meaning it was attached to non-noble individuals. In the \"pays d'état\" (\"provinces with provincial estates\" Brittany, Languedoc, Burgundy, Auvergne, Béarn, Dauphiné, Provence, and such portions of Gascony as Bigorre, Comminges, and the Quatre-Vallées; these recently acquired provinces had been able to maintain a certain local autonomy in terms of taxation), the assessment of the tax was established by local councils and the tax was generally \"real\", meaning that it was attached to non-noble lands (that is, even nobles possessing such lands were required to pay taxes on them). Finally, \"pays d'imposition\" were recently conquered lands which had their own local historical institutions (they were similar to the \"pays d'état\" under which they are sometimes grouped), although taxation was overseen by the royal intendant.\n\nIn an attempt to reform the fiscal system, new administrative divisions were created in the 16th century. The \"Recettes générales\", commonly known as \"généralités\" and overseen in the beginning by \"receveurs généraux\" or \"généraux conseillers\" (royal tax collectors), were initially only taxation districts. Their role steadily increased and by the mid 17th century, the généralités were under the authority of an \"intendant\", and they became a vehicle for the expansion of royal power in matters of justice, taxation, and policing. By the outbreak of the Revolution, there were 36 généralités; the last two were created as recently as 1784.\n\nUntil the late 17th century, tax collectors were called \"receveurs royaux\". In 1680, the system of the \"Ferme Générale\" was established, a franchised customs and excise operation in which individuals bought the right to collect the taille on behalf of the king, through six-year adjudications (some taxes, including the \"aides\" and the \"gabelle\", had been farmed out in this way as early as 1604). The major tax collectors in that system were known as the \"fermiers généraux\" (\"farmers-general\", in English).\n\nEfficient tax collection was one of the major causes for French administrative and royal centralization in the Early Modern period. The taille became a major source of royal income (roughly half in the 1570s), the most important direct tax of pre-Revolutionary France, and provided for the growing cost of warfare in the 15th and 16th centuries. Records show the taille increasing from 2.5 million livres in 1515 to six million after 1551; in 1589 the taille reached a record 21 million livres, before dropping.\n\nThe taille was only one of a number of taxes. There also existed the \"taillon\" (a tax for military expenditures), a national salt tax (the gabelle), national tariffs (the \"aides\") on various products (including wine), local tariffs on speciality products (the \"douane\") or levied on products entering the city (the \"octroi\") or sold at fairs, and local taxes. Finally, the church benefited from a mandatory tax or tithe called the \"dîme\".\n\nLouis XIV of France created several additional tax systems, including the \"capitation\" (begun in 1695) which touched every person including nobles and the clergy (although exemption could be bought for a large one-time sum) and the \"dixième\" (1710–1717, restarted in 1733), which was a true tax on income and on property value and was meant to support the military.\n\nIn 1749, under Louis XV, a new tax based on the \"dixième\", the \"vingtième\" (or \"one-twentieth\"), was enacted to reduce the royal deficit, and this tax continued through the ancien régime. This tax was based solely on revenues (5% of net earnings from land, property, commerce, industry and from official offices), and was meant to reach all citizens regardless of status, but the clergy, the regions with \"pays d'état\" and the parlements protested; the clergy won exemption, the \"pays d'état\" won reduced rates, and the parlements halted new income statements, effectively making the \"vingtième\" a far less efficient tax than it was designed to be. The financial needs of the Seven Years' War led to a second (1756–1780), and then a third (1760–1763) \"vingtième\" being created. In 1754 the \"vingtième\" produced 11.7 million livres.\n\nThe \"taille\" was used very heavily by the French to fund their many wars like the Hundred Years' War and the Thirty Years' War. It eventually became one of the most hated taxes of the \"Ancien Régime\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5102370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5102370", "title": "Tipton Three", "text": "Tipton Three\n\nThe Tipton Three is the collective name given to three British citizens from Tipton, England, who were held in extrajudicial detention by the United States government for two years in Guantanamo Bay detainment camp in Cuba.\n\nRuhal Ahmed was born on 11 March 1981; Asif Iqbal was born on 24 April 1981; the United States Department of Defense estimated that Shafiq Rasul was born in 1977. Other reports state he was only a couple of years older than his friends. The three men in their early 20s were captured in Afghanistan in 2001, transferred to United States Army custody and transported to Guantanamo, where they were detained as enemy combatants. Their families were not told of their whereabouts until the British Foreign Office informed them in January 2002. They were three of nine Britons detained at Guantanamo.\n\nAfter negotiations between the governments and British assessment of their interrogations, the men were repatriated to the United Kingdom in March 2004. They were released without charge the next day.\n\nWith many others, Shafiq Rasul filed a \"habeas corpus\" suit in 2004 against the United States government for his detention, in a case that ultimately went to the US Supreme Court. In the landmark, \"Rasul v. Bush\" (2004), the court held that Guantanamo detainees have the right to challenge whether their detention is constitutional in the US courts. The three men were represented in the UK by the lawyer Gareth Peirce.\n\nIn addition, the Tipton Three and Jamal Udeen Al-Harith filed a suit in 2004 against the US government in \"Rasul v. Rumsfeld\", challenging its use of torture and religious abuses of detainees. This case was dismissed in April 2009 by the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, based on \"limited immunity\" of government officials; the court ruled that such treatment had not been legally defined at the time as prohibited. In December 2009 the US Supreme Court declined to accept the case for hearing, so the lower court ruling stands.\n\nThe three men were featured as the subjects of \"The Road to Guantánamo\" (2006), a docu-drama about the events directed by the British filmmaker, Michael Winterbottom.\n\nThe three travelled together, were captured together, and were released together on 9 March 2004, along with two other detainees.\n\nRuhal Ahmed (born 11 March 1981 in Birmingham, West Midlands, England) is a British citizen. His detainee identification number was 110.\n\nAustralia refused Ruhal Ahmed a visa to visit to promote \"The Road to Guantanamo\" (2006), a British docudrama made about the events. He has taken part in a campaign against torture, organised by Amnesty International.\n\nShafiq Rasul (born 15 April 1977 in Dudley, West Midlands). His detainee ID number was 86.\n\nHis family discovered his detention when the British Foreign Office contacted them on 21 January 2002. He was released in March 2004, shortly after his return to the United Kingdom, more than three months before \"Rasul v. Bush\" was decided.\n\nAsif Iqbal (born 24 April 1981 in West Bromwich, West Midlands) is a British citizen who was held in extrajudicial detention as a terror suspect in the United States' Guantanamo Bay detainment camps in Cuba. Iqbal's Guantanamo detainee ID number was 87.\n\nIqbal married on 2 July 2005.\n\nOn 4 August 2004 Iqbal, Ahmed and Rasul released a report on their abuse and humiliation while in US custody. In it, according to the BBC, the three describe significant abuse, including:\n\nAfter the appointment of General Geoffrey Miller as commander of the camp, they said treatment became more harsh, including short shackling and the forced shaving-off of beards.\n\nIn the report, they allege that those who represented themselves as being from MI5, or the British Foreign Office, seemed unconcerned with their welfare.\n\nIn the end, the three falsely confessed (under force and abusive interrogation) to being the three previously unidentified faces in an alleged video that showed a meeting between Osama bin Laden and Mohamed Atta. But MI5 produced evidence demonstrating they were in England at the time.\n\nThe three were among the first detainees released who gave an alternative view of conditions within the camp to that offered by United States Department of Defense.\n\n\"The Road to Guantanamo\" (2006) is a docu-drama about the Tipton Three made by director Michael Winterbottom and based on their accounts. The screenplay was based on the initial account from the three detainees.\n\nIn May 2007, Ruhal Ahmed and Shafiq Rasul agreed to appear on the Channel 4 reality show \"Lie Lab\". The technology used on the show was developed by Professor Sean Spence from the University of Sheffield. It uses functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to look at the activity in the brain's pre-frontal cortex to view how a subject reacts to questioning. Critics of the test have included neuroscientists and legal scholars, who have said the technique is unlikely to accurately measure truth-telling, as there are too many variables affecting results. They think the technique may be useful for additional research.\n\nAlthough he earlier said that he had entered Afghanistan to do charity work, on the program, Ahmed said he had visited an Islamist training camp, where he handled weapons and learned how to use an AK47. Rasul refused to go through the test.\n\nIn January 2010, Ruhal Ahmed and Shafiq Rasul were interviewed on \"Five Live\". They both said they had visited a Taliban training camp, but it was because they were trapped in the province. They had wanted to find out \"what was happening\", and the Taliban was the only government operating at the time. The interviewer Victoria observed that Ahmed had said he had handled AK47 guns.\n\nShafiq Rasul said:\n\nBeing in Afghanistan, we were at that age where… seeing a gun… you'd never seen a gun in the UK… you want to hold it. You want to see what its like. But we were never there to do any training. That's what, that's what, we were just there. We held it to see what it was like. That's how we've explained it. But it has been taken out of context, saying that 'Oh, these guys from the UK, they were at that age, 9/11 had just happened, and they were there for terrorist training'. But, but – that's not the case. That's not what happened\n\n"}
{"id": "5731029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5731029", "title": "Treaty of Chaguaramas", "text": "Treaty of Chaguaramas\n\nThe Treaty of Chaguaramas established the Caribbean Community and Common Market, later known as CARICOM. It was signed on July 4, 1973 in Chaguaramas, Trinidad and Tobago. It was signed by Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago. It came into effect on 1 August 1973. The treaty also established the Caribbean Community including the Caribbean Single Market and Economy, replacing the Caribbean Free Trade Association which ceased to exist on 1 May 1974.\n\nIn addition to economic issues, the Community instrument addressed issues of foreign policy coordination and functional cooperation. Issues of economic integration, particularly those related to trade arrangements, were addressed in the CSME Annex.\n\nA revised Treaty of Chaguaramas establishing the Caribbean Community including the CARICOM Single Market and Economy (CSME) was signed in 2001.\n\nThe countries of the region that signed the Treaty of Chaguaramas made an oath to:\n\n\nCARICOM Day is observed on the first Monday in July in Guyana to commemorate the signing of this treaty. In Cuba, the CARICOM-Cuba Day is observed on December 8 to celebrate diplomatic ties between the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and Cuba.\n\n"}
{"id": "16773166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16773166", "title": "Tulane Corporate Law Institute", "text": "Tulane Corporate Law Institute\n\nThe Tulane Corporate Law Institute is an annual two-day M&A and corporate law conference that takes place in downtown New Orleans every spring. It attracts the most high-profile lawyers and bankers from around the United States, as well as judges, journalists, and others who follow the dealmaking world. The event typically takes place on a Thursday and Friday in late March or early April, at a prominent Canal Street hotel. \n\nIn the late 1980s, Delaware Supreme Court Justice Andrew G.T. Moore (author of \"Smith v. Van Gorkom\" and \"Revlon v. MacAndrews\") and a group of New Orleans corporate practitioners were among those who undertook an aggressive goal: to establish a new annual platform for a gathering of the nation's\nleading corporate jurists and practitioners. More than 20 years later, the Tulane Corporate Law Institute remains a critical meeting place for national leaders in the fields of law and business. \n\nThe second day of the 22nd annual meeting (on April 16, 2010), coincided with the unexpected release of an SEC fraud complaint against Goldman Sachs. The release temporarily disrupted the day's meeting agenda as the story made national headlines and SEC officials were sought for comment in The Roosevelt Hotel. The news caused an immediate thirteen percent drop in Goldman's stock price, and a 1.3% decline in the market as a whole. \n\n\n\nThe Tulane Law School's Career Development Office typically organizes informational interviews among leading practitioners and select groups of Tulane law and JD/MBA students. In the past, students have met directly with a variety of business and governmental leaders, including partners of big New York City and Los Angeles law firms, in-house attorneys at major investment banks and hedge funds throughout the country, and the commissioner of the SEC.\n\n"}
{"id": "220700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220700", "title": "Windhoek Declaration", "text": "Windhoek Declaration\n\nThe Windhoek Declaration for the Development of a Free, Independent and Pluralistic Press, short: Windhoek Declaration is a statement of press freedom principles by African newspaper journalists in 1991. The Declaration was produced at a UNESCO seminar, \"Promoting an Independent and Pluralistic African Press,\" held in Windhoek, the capital of Namibia, from 29 April to 3 May 1991. \n\nThe date of the Declaration's adoption, May 3, has subsequently been declared as World Press Freedom Day. The document has been viewed as widely influential, as the first in a series of such declarations around the world, and as a crucial affirmation of the international community's commitment to freedom of the press. Subsequently several similar documents were drafted in other parts of the developing world: The Alma-Ata Declaration for central Asia, Sana'a Declaration for the Middle East, and the Santiago Declaration for Latin America and the Caribbean. At the tenth anniversary of the Windhoek Declaration, however, the United Nations jubilee statement noted the fragility of press freedom in the face of political violence or authoritarianism. \n\nSince it was formally approved by the UNESCO Member States during the 28th Session of the General Conference (November 1995), the Windhoek Declaration has become a major reference in the United Nations system. It is part of the New Communication Strategy decided by UNESCO’s General Conference during its 25th Session in November 1989, at the same time as the fall of the Berlin Wall. This new strategy \"de facto\" distanced itself from the New World Information and Communication Order (NWICO) which was subject to controversies within the Organization in the 1980s. These controversies have divided UNESCO and caused the United States and the United Kingdom to withdraw from the Organisation (in 1984 and 1985). The NWICO was also subject to oppositions from several professional media organizations, which saw in the New Order a means allowing states to control the media with the justification, among others, to encourage wider and better balanced dissemination of information between North and South. \n\nThe 1989 New Communication Strategy stresses that this can only be reached “without any obstacle to freedom of expression” in accordance with the fundamental purpose of UNESCO to promote the “free flow of ideas by word and image”. \n\nThe Windhoek seminar was a direct follow-up to the East-West Roundtable that the Director General, Federico Mayor had rapidly set up in February 1990, a few weeks after the fall of the Berlin Wall, in order to address one of the numerous challenges generated by the end of the Cold War, that is the democratization of the media landscape in Central and Oriental European countries. Sixty independent journalists from the Soviet Block but also journalists from Europe and North America had participated in the Roundtable. Unlike the Windhoek seminar, the East-West Roundtable hadn’t adopted a final text. Its main purpose was to offer a platform for free expression to the participants whose many had just come out from underground. Several representatives of UNESCO Member States also attended the Roundtable as observers, among them some African diplomats who had asked the Director General that a similar conference be held on their continent. The Windhoek seminar was organized in response to their request. \n\nAt the 26th session of the General Conference (November 1991), the Member States of UNESCO expressed their deep satisfaction with the outcome of the Windhoek seminar and invited the Director-General “to extend to other regions of the world the action taken so far in Africa and Europe to encourage press freedom and to promote the independence and pluralism of the media; (b) to celebrate the anniversary of the Windhoek Declaration adopted on 3 May 1991; (c) to transmit to the United Nations General Assembly the wish expressed by the Member States of UNESCO to have 3 May declared ‘International Press Freedom Day”. \n\nThe implementation of resolution 26C/4.3 initiated a process in which all initiatives were related to each other. Thus, the Windhoek Declaration had a catalytic function in the democratization movement that was transforming the international media landscape of the 1990s. It was in this framework that UNESCO and the United Nations, with the support of professional media organizations, have jointly-organized four regional seminars similar to the Windhoek seminar: the first for the Asian media (Alma Ata, Kazakhstan; October 1992), the second for countries from Latin America and the Caribbean (Santiago, Chile; May 1994), the third for Arab countries (Sana’a, Yemen; January 1966) and the last one for Europe and North America (Sofia, Bulgaria; September 1997). Each seminar ended with the adoption of a declaration in which participants highlighted “their full support and entire adhesion to the fundamental principles of the Windhoek Declaration, recognizing its crucial importance for the promotion of free, independent and pluralistic media, in written and broadcast press, worldwide”. UNESCO’s General Conference endorsed the five declarations of Windhoek, Alma Ata, Santiago, Sana’a and Sofia at its 28 session for the first three (1995) and its 29 for the last two (1997). It is unusual for the Member States of an international organization to adopt texts coming from the civil society without making any changes, more so that these declarations are very critical of the politics and practices of certain States towards medias (without making specific reference to any of them). \n\nIn addition to the adoption of the five declarations by UNESCO’s Member States, the “Windhoek process” has produced other significant results in the media field:\n\n\nThe personal commitment of a few African diplomats in Paris (UNESCO), Geneva (ECOSOC) and New York (UN General Assembly) has been crucial to the success of the Windhoek process.They were those who put forward and defended in these intergovernmental fora the suggestion made at Windhoek by journalists to establish World Press Freedom Day annually celebrated on May 3. They were also those who sponsored a draft resolution to the UNESCO General Conference intended to endorse the Windhoek Declaration. This African initiative has opened the path to the four other Declarations of Alma Ata, Santiago, Sana’a and Sofia to be adopted without objection. For the Ambassador of Niger Lambert Messan, president in 1995 of the UNESCO African Group, “the Windhoek Declaration is the African contribution to the edifice of human rights”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "171353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171353", "title": "Wolfe Tone", "text": "Wolfe Tone\n\nTheobald Wolfe Tone, posthumously known as Wolfe Tone (20 June 1763 – 19 November 1798), was a leading Irish revolutionary figure and one of the founding members of the United Irishmen, and is regarded as the father of Irish republicanism and leader of the 1798 Irish Rebellion. He was captured at Letterkenny port on 3 November 1798, and he died sixteen days later for reasons that are disputed.\n\nTheobald Wolfe Tone was born on 20 June 1763. The Tones were descended from a French Protestant family who fled to England from Gascony in the 16th century to escape religious persecution. A branch of the family settled in Dublin in the 17th century. Theobald's father Peter Tone was a Church of Ireland coach-maker who had a farm near Sallins, County Kildare. His mother came from a Catholic merchant family who converted to Protestantism after Theobald was born. His maternal grandfather was captain of a vessel in the West India trade. \nHe was baptised as Theobald Wolfe Tone in honour of his godfather, Theobald Wolfe of Blackhall, County Kildare, a first cousin of Arthur Wolfe, 1st Viscount Kilwarden. However, it was widely believed that Tone was the son of Theobald Wolfe, which if true made him a half-brother of the poet Charles Wolfe.\n\nIn 1783, Tone found work as a tutor to Anthony and Robert, younger half-brothers of Richard Martin MP of Galway, a prominent supporter of Catholic Emancipation, at Dangan, the Martin family home. Tone fell in love with Martin's wife, but later wrote that it came to nothing. During this period he briefly considered a career in the theatre as an actor.\n\nHe studied law at Trinity College, Dublin, where he became an active member in the College Historical Society debating club, and was elected its auditor in 1785. He graduated BA in February 1786. He qualified as a barrister in King's Inns at the age of 26 and attended the Inns of Court in London. As a student, he eloped with Martha Witherington, daughter of William and Catherine Witherington (née Fanning) of Dublin. She would go on to change her name to Matilda, on Wolfe Tone's request.\n\nWhen they married, Tone was 22, Matilda was about 16. He was an uxorious husband; in his journal while he was in France and she in Hamburg in 1796 he wrote: \"She is the delight of my eyes, the joy of my heart, the only object for which I wish to live. I doat upon her to distraction.\"\n\nDisappointed at finding no support for a plan that he had submitted to William Pitt the Younger, to found a military colony in Hawaii, Tone initially planned to enlist as a soldier in the East India Company, but applied too late in the year, when no more ships would be sent out until the following spring.\n\nIn September 1791 Tone published \"An Argument on behalf of the Catholics of Ireland\", signed \"A Northern Whig\". \"A Northern Whig\" emphasised the growing breach between Whig patriots like Henry Flood and Henry Grattan, who sought Catholic emancipation and parliamentary reform without severing the tie to England. Tone expressed contempt for the constitution Grattan so triumphantly extorted from the British government in 1782; himself an Anglican, Tone urged co-operation between the religions in Ireland as the only means of obtaining redress of Irish grievances. The British government had just passed the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1791, but the Dublin parliament was in no hurry to do so. \n\nIn October 1791 Tone converted these ideas into practical policy by founding, in conjunction with Thomas Russell (1767–1803), Napper Tandy and others, the Society of the United Irishmen. Until 1794, this society aimed at no more than the formation of a political union between Catholics and Protestants, with a view to obtaining a liberal measure of parliamentary reform. In 1792 he was appointed assistant secretary of the Catholic Committee.\n\nThe Catholics involved were not united regarding the steps they were taking, and in December 1791, sixty-eight members withdrew, led by Lord Kenmare, with the support of the higher clergy. When the British government questioned the legality of the Catholic Convention called in December 1792, Tone drew up for the committee a statement of the case on which a favourable opinion of counsel was obtained. A petition was made to King George III early in 1793, and that year the re-enfranchisement of Catholics was enacted – if they owned property as \"forty-shilling freeholders\". They could not, however, enter parliament or be made state officials above grand jurors. The Convention voted to Tone a sum of £1,500 with a gold medal and voted to dissolve.\n\nSectarian animosity threatened to undermine the United Irishmen movement: two secret societies in Ulster fought against each other, the agrarian Protestant Peep o' Day Boys and their Catholic opponents the Defenders.\n\nIn 1794 the Society of United Irishmen became a sworn association, using oaths that clearly aimed at the overthrow of the state. Given that France and Britain had been at war since the French Revolutionary Wars of early 1793, administering or making such oaths turned the society into something more than a liberal pressure-group.\n\nAffiliating so closely with the new French Republic also associated Tone with its policy of \"Dechristianization\", which was strongly opposed by the Catholic Church in Ireland. Seen as a Catholic champion in the early 1790s, much of his Catholic support fell away after 1793. \n\nAlso in 1794, the United Irishmen, persuaded that no party in the Dublin parliament (in which representation was limited to Protestants) seemed likely to accept their scheme of male-only universal suffrage and equal electoral districts, began to found their hopes on a French invasion. An Irish clergyman living in England, the Reverend William Jackson, who had taken in revolutionary opinions during his long stay in France, came to Ireland to ascertain to what extent the Irish people were ready to support a French invasion. Tone drew up a memorandum for Jackson on the state of Ireland, which he described as ripe for revolution. An attorney named Cockayne, to whom Jackson had imprudently disclosed his mission, betrayed the memorandum to the government; and in April 1794 Jackson was arrested on a charge of treason.\n\nSeveral of the leading United Irishmen, including Archibald Hamilton Rowan, fled the country; the papers of the United Irishmen were seized, and for a time the organisation was broken up. Tone, who had not attended meetings of the society since May 1793, remained in Ireland until after the trial of Jackson and his suicide in April 1795. Having friends among the government party, including members of the Beresford family, he succeeded in making terms with the government, and emigrated to the United States, where he arrived in May 1795. Before leaving, he and his family travelled to Belfast, and it was at the summit of Cavehill that Tone made the Cavehill Compact with fellow Irish radicals, including Russell and McCracken, promising \"never to desist in our efforts until we had subverted the authority of England over our country, and asserted our independence.\"\n\nThe United Irishmen reformed in 1796. The Society began seriously to look to France to support a rising with troops.\n\nLiving in Philadelphia, Tone wrote a few months later to Thomas Russell expressing unqualified dislike of the American people, whom he imagined to be no more truly democratic in sentiment and no less attached to authority than the British; he described Patriot hero George Washington as a \"high-flying aristocrat\", and he found the aristocracy of money and achievement in America still less to his liking than the European aristocracy of birth. Tone also lived briefly in West Chester and in Downingtown, Pennsylvania.\n\nFinding himself at Philadelphia in the company of Reynolds, Rowan, and Tandy, Tone went to Paris to persuade the French government to send an expedition to invade Ireland. In February 1796 he arrived in Paris and had interviews with De La Croix and Carnot, who were impressed by his energy, sincerity, and ability. A commission was given him as adjutant-general in the French army, which he hoped might protect him from the penalty of treason in the event of capture by the British; though he himself claimed the authorship of a proclamation said to have been issued by the United Irishmen, enjoining that all Irishmen taken with arms in their hands in the British service should be instantly shot; and he supported a project for landing La Legion Noire in England, who were to burn Bristol, England and commit other atrocities.\nHe drew up two memorials representing that the landing of a considerable French force in Ireland would be followed by a general rising of the people, and giving a detailed account of the condition of the country.\n\nA sympathizer wrote of him, in French, saying:\n\nWolf Tone was sent to France to claim the support of the Directory, under the express condition that the French should come to Ireland as allies, and should act under direction of the new government, as Rochambeau had done in America. With this view, Tone had frequently conferences at Paris with Hoche; and the Directory finally determined to send from Brest a fleet of forty-five sail, with an army of fifteen thousand men, under the charge of this able general, December 15, 1796. England was saved by a violent tempest.\n\"See also French expedition to Ireland (1796) and Irish Rebellion of 1798\"\n\nThe French Directory planned a military landing in Ireland in support of the coming revolution foretold by Tone. The Directory possessed information from Lord Edward FitzGerald and Arthur O'Connor confirming Tone, and prepared to despatch an expedition under Louis Lazare Hoche. On 15 December 1796, the expedition, consisting of forty-three sail and carrying about 14,450 men with a large supply of war material for distribution in Ireland, sailed from Brest. Tone accompanied it as \"Adjutant-general Smith\" and had the greatest contempt for the seamanship of the French sailors, who were unable to land due to severe gales. They waited for days off Bantry Bay, waiting for the winds to ease, but eventually returned to France.\n\nTone served for some months in the French army under Hoche, who had become the French Republic's minister of war after his victory against the Austrians at the Battle of Neuwied on the Rhine in April 1797. In June 1797 Tone took part in preparations for a military expedition to Ireland from the Batavian Republic, a puppet-state created during the Batavian Revolution in the Lowlands in January 1795. However, the Batavian fleet under Dutch Vice-Admiral Jan de Winter was delayed in the harbour of Texel island that summer by unfavourable easterly winds and from mid-August by a British North-Sea fleet blockade. It eventually put to sea in the first week of October only to be immediately crushed by Admiral Adam Duncan in the Battle of Camperdown on October 11, 1797. Tone then returned to Paris. General Hoche, once tasked with an Irish expeditionary force, died of tuberculosis on 19 September 1797 at Wetzlar after returning to his command on France's Rhine frontier.\n\nIn Ireland the membership of the United Irish had reached 300,000, about 6% of the population, but a vicious counter-insurgency campaign in 1797 weakened the organisation and forced the leadership to launch a rising without French aid. Napoleon Bonaparte, with whom Tone had several interviews at this time, was less disposed than Hoche had been to undertake in earnest an Irish expedition; and when the Rising broke out in Ireland in 1798 he had started for Egypt. When Tone urged the Directory to send effective assistance to the Irish rebels, all that could be promised was a number of raids to descend simultaneously around the Irish coast. One of these under General Humbert succeeded in landing a force near Killala, County Mayo, and gained some success in Connacht (particularly at Castlebar) before it was subdued by Lake and Charles Cornwallis. Wolfe Tone's brother Matthew was captured, tried by court-martial, and hanged; a second raid, accompanied by Napper Tandy, came to disaster on the coast of Donegal; while Wolfe Tone took part in a third, under Admiral Jean-Baptiste-François Bompart, with General Jean Hardy in command of a force of about 3,000 men. This encountered an English squadron at Buncrana on Lough Swilly on 12 October 1798. Tone, on board the ship \"Hoche\", refused Bompart's offer of escape in a frigate before the battle of Tory Island, and was taken prisoner when the \"Hoche\" surrendered. Tone was brought ashore at Letterkenny Port and all French forces of the Hoche were taken to Lord Cavan in Letterkenny's home where he faced arrest.\n\nWhen the prisoners were landed a fortnight later, Sir George Hill recognised Tone in the French adjutant-general's uniform in Lord Cavans privy-quarters at Letterkenny. At his trial by court-martial in Dublin on 8 November 1798 Tone made a speech avowing his determined hostility to England and his intention \"by frank and open war to procure the separation of the countries\".\nRecognising that the court was certain to convict him, he asked that \"the court should adjudge me to die the death of a soldier, and that I may be shot\". Reading from a prepared speech, he defended his view of a military separation from Britain (as had occurred in the fledgling United States), he explained his motives:\n\nA commentary on the trial continues: \"After a long silence, interrupted by some expressions of admiration, he was told that his request should be submitted to the lord-lieutenant. Thinking, however, that there was but little prospect, he committed suicide in prison. With Wolfe Tone, terminated the insurrection of 1798. He was the prime mover of it, and was its last victim…\"\n\nHe also lamented the outbreak of mass violence, saying: \"Such are my principles such has been my conduct; if in consequence of the measures in which I have been engaged misfortunes have been brought upon this country, I heartily lament it, but let it be remembered that it is now nearly four years since I have quit Ireland and consequently I have been personally concerned in none of them; if I am rightly informed very great atrocities have been committed on both sides, but that does not at all diminish my regret; for a fair and open war I was prepared; if that has degenerated into a system of assassination, massacre, and plunder I do again most sincerely lament it, and those few who know me personally will give me I am sure credit for the assertion.\"\n\nTo the people, he had the following to say from the dock:\n\nHis eloquence was in vain, and his request to be shot was denied. On 10 November 1798, he was found guilty and was sentenced to be hanged on 12 November. Before this sentence was carried out, either he attempted suicide by slitting his throat or British soldiers tortured and mortally wounded Tone. The story goes that he was initially saved when the wound was sealed with a bandage, and he was told if he tried to talk the wound would open and he would bleed to death. He responded by saying \"I can yet find words to thank you sir; it is the most welcome news you could give me. What should I wish to live for?\".\n\nTheobald Wolfe Tone died on 19 November 1798 at the age of 35 in Provost's Prison, Dublin, not far from where he was born. He is buried in Bodenstown, Co. Kildare, near his birthplace at Sallins, and his grave is in the care of the National Graves Association.\n\nHis godfather Theobald Wolfe was Tone's natural father, according to several sources. A cousin, Arthur Wolfe, Lord Kilwarden, warned Tone to leave Ireland in 1795. Then when Tone was arrested and brought to Dublin in 1798, and facing certain execution, it was Kilwarden (a senior judge) who granted two orders for \"Habeas Corpus\" for his release. This was a remarkable act, given that the rebellion had just occurred with great loss of life, and one that could never be enlarged upon as Kilwarden was killed at the beginning of Emmet's revolt in 1803. The Wolfes knew that Tone was their cousin. As a pillar of the Protestant Ascendancy and notorious at the time for his prosecution of United Irishman William Orr, Kilwarden had no other obvious motive for trying to assist Tone in 1795 and 1798. Portraits of Wolfe around 1800 arguably show a resemblance to Wolfe Tone.\n\nMaud Wolfe (1892–1980), the last of the Wolfes to live in Kildare, continued her family tradition of annually laying flowers at Tone's grave until her death.\n\n\"[Tone] rises\", said William Lecky, the 19th-century historian, \"far above the dreary level of commonplace which Irish conspiracy in general presents… His judgement of men and things was keen, lucid and masculine, and he was alike prompt in decision and brave in action.\"\n\nHis journals, which were written for his family and intimate friends were published after his death by his son, William Theobald Wolfe Tone.\n\nTone was adopted by the Young Ireland movement of the 1840s as an iconic figure, as the father of Irish republicanism and above religious divisions. Its leader Thomas Davis found and publicised the location of Tone's grave in 1843. Modern republicans quote his ideals:\n\nEvery summer, Irish Republicans hold commemorations at Tone's grave in Bodenstown.\n\nAn attempt on 17 June 1934 by Protestant Republican Congress members from Belfast to join in the commemoration march was prevented by IRA stewards. The marchers were stoned and \"scuffles broke out\". This was portrayed by some commentators as sectarianism, that republicans had abandoned Tone's aim to unite Irishmen by ignoring their religious differences, paying tribute only to his anti-British republicanism. However, Brian Hanley's history of the IRA from 1926 to 1936 concludes that the trouble arose because they were seen as \"communist\", and not for sectarian reasons. This seems highly unlikely, as the Communist Party of Ireland had been legalised from 1932, and the stonings must have been sectarian, which Tone himself was not.\n\nOf Tone's four children, three died prematurely. His eldest child, Maria Tone (born 1786 in Dublin, died 1803 in Paris) and his youngest child, Francis Rawdon Tone (1793-1806) both died of tuberculosis. Another son, Richard Tone (born 1787/89) died in infancy.\n\nOnly his son William Theobald Wolfe Tone survived to adulthood. Raised in France by his mother after Tone's death, William was appointed a cadet in the Imperial School of Cavalry in 1810 on Napoleon's orders. He was naturalised a French citizen on 4 May 1812. In January 1813 he was made sub-lieutenant in the 8th Regiment of Chasseurs and joined the Grand Army in Germany (his nom de guerre was the punning \"le petit loup\" – the little wolf. He was at the battles of Löwenberg, Goldberg, Dresden, Bauthen, Mühlberg, Aachen, and Leipzig. He received six lance wounds at the Battle of Leipzig, was promoted to lieutenant and aide-de-camp of General Bagneres and was decorated with the Legion of Honour.\n\nAfter the defeat of Napoleon at the Battle of Waterloo, he emigrated to the United States, where he was commissioned a Captain in the United States Army and died there on 11 October 1828 at the age of 37. Matilda Tone also emigrated to the United States, and is buried in Greenwood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nWilliam Tone was survived by his only child, his daughter Grace Georgina.\n\nSeveral Gaelic Athletic Association clubs in Ireland are named in honour of Wolfe Tone. These include, in Armagh, Wolfe Tone GAC, Derrymacash; in Clare, Wolfe Tones Na Sionna; in Derry, Bellaghy Wolfe Tones GAC; in Meath, Wolfe Tones GAA, and in Tyrone, Drumquin Wolfe Tones GAC and Kildress Wolfe Tones GAC. In Britain, Lancashire has a Wolfe Tones CLG in Liverpool. In Australia, there is a Wolfe Tones GAC in Victoria. In the United States, there is the Chicago Wolfe Tones GFC in Illinois, and other Wolfe Tones clubs in Boston and Detroit, while Edmonton, Canada, is home to the Edmonton Wolfe Tones.\n\nIn 1963 Brian Warfield, Noel Nagle, Tommy Byrne, and Derek Warfield formed The Wolfe Tones, an Irish rebel music band.\n\nA minor character named Wolfe Tone O'Rooney appears in Thomas Pynchon's 2006 novel \"Against the Day\".\n\nIn Citizen Smith, a British sitcom broadcast from 1977 to 1980, the protagonist, 'Wolfie' Smith, is called after Tone's revolutionary pseudonym, Citoyen Smith.\n\nA cast of Tone's death mask is open to public viewing in the vaults of St. Michan's Church in Dublin.\n\nSeveral streets, plazas and a bridge have been named in honour of Tone, including Wolfe Tone Square in Dublin, Wolfe Tone Street in Limerick, Wolfe Tone Bridge in Galway, Wolfe Tone Square in Bray and Tone Drive adjacent Wolfe street in Ipswich Queensland.\n\nThe Irish poet Ailbhe Ní Ghearbhuigh's poem \"Tar Éis na Réabhlóide\" (After the Revolution) plays on the word \"wolf\" to discuss the aftermath of the attempted revolution.\n\n\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20121207153604/http://www.abdn.ac.uk/riiss/JISS/2.1/2.1_Kleinman.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "9640530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9640530", "title": "Working Group on Arbitrary Detention", "text": "Working Group on Arbitrary Detention\n\nThe Working Group on Arbitrary Detention is a body of independent human rights experts that investigate cases of arbitrary arrest and detention. Arbitrary arrest and detention is the imprisonment or detainment of an individual, by a State, without respect for due process. These actions may be in violation of international human rights law.\n\nThe Working Group was established by resolution in 1991 by the former Commission on Human Rights. It is one of the thematic special procedures overseen by the United Nations Human Rights Council, and is therefore a subsidiary body of the UN.\n\nThe Working Group is mandated to receive and verify information from a variety of sources, in order to investigate cases of detention imposed arbitrarily, or otherwise inconsistently with the relevant international standards set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 9 states: ‘No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention, or exile’. In considering claims of arbitrary detention, the Working Group is not only guided by State national law, but other international legal instruments may also be relevant if accepted by the States concerned. For example, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 9(1) states; “Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest or detention. No one shall be Deprived of his liberty except on such grounds and in accordance with such procedure as are established by law.”\n\nThe Working Group's role is to investigate individual cases of arbitrary detention, as well as situations where the conditions in a country prompt concern over widespread occurrences of arbitrary detention. It has an intentionally broad mandate, to allow flexibility, and allow anyone to seek its assistance. The Working Group may send urgent appeals to governments to ascertain the whereabouts and condition of those allegedly detained, issues opinions on the compliance with international law and may also conduct fact-finding visits to countries. The Working Group also issue deliberations on issues, to assist States in avoiding behaviour that may enable arbitrary detention. Ensuring a communicative dialogue with Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations allows the Working Group to achieve success. The Working Group must work in coordination with other Human Rights Council mechanisms and is mandated to carry out its task with discretion, objectivity and independence.\n\nThe Working Group mandate reflects the Commission’s concerns regarding worldwide instances of detention without legal basis. The Commission on Human Rights entrusted the Working Group with the following mandate:\n\n\nThe mandate lasts for a period of three years, and was most recently extended for a further three-year period by Human Rights Council resolution 33/30 of 30 September 2016.\n\nThe Working Group is composed of five independent experts. They are appointed in equitable geographical distribution from the following regions: Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, Western Europe and Other Countries, and South America and Caribbean. Three sessions are held per year, each lasting between five and eight days.\n\nThe current members of the Working Group are:\n\nThe Working Group on Arbitrary Detention is tasked with acting on information of alleged cases of arbitrary detention. To fulfil this mandate, the Working Group may decide individual complaints of arbitrary detention, formulate deliberations to provide guidance on the interpretation of international standards related to detention circumstances and provide reports for the Human Rights Council. It may undertake country visits to achieve this.\n\nThe Working Group does not require the exhaustion of local remedies. However, its purpose is not to replace national courts. This broadens its jurisdiction, as it allows the Group to bypass governments that may be stalling procedure.\n\nDetention in itself does not necessarily violate human rights. Therefore, the Working Group must distinguish between lawful exercise of police power, and detention so lacking in lawful basis or otherwise unreasonable, that it must be considered arbitrary.\n\nThe Working Group on Arbitrary Detention is unique in that its mandate expressly provides for the consideration of individual complaints. Individuals anywhere in the world are therefore able to petition the Working Group for consideration. The Group acts on information submitted to it by individuals directly, their families, or through representatives of Non-governmental organisations.\n\nThe Working Group then sends communications to the Governments concerned, to clarify or bring attention to the case. The Government is invited to respond to the allegations within 60 days, with its view on the issue. The Working Group then sends the reply to the source of the allegations, requesting more information. This process allows the Group to remain neutral in the information-gathering process.\n\nThe Working Group has identified detention or imprisonment as arbitrary if it falls into one of the following categories;\n\nExamples of this can include continued detention after the completion of a sentence, denial of the exercise of fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, violations of the right to a fair trial, asylum and immigration claims, or detention based on ethnicity; religion; sexual orientation, etc.\n\nUpon receiving information under this adversary procedure, the Working Group then adopts one of the following approaches;\n\n\nUpon evaluating contradicting evidence, such as between an individual claiming arbitrary deprivation of liberty and a government, the Working Group use a standard of 'convincing evidence', as opposed to evidence beyond a reasonable doubt. The informal nature of the Working Group can strengthen the position of the individual represented, by easing the objective burden of proof on them.\n\nIf the Working Group receives information that raises concern about the immediate wellbeing of an individual, then it may, at its discretion, pursue an urgent action. The source must provide sufficiently reliable information that the continuation of deprivation poses significant threat to the psychological or physical wellbeing to the individual. The alleged situation may be time-sensitive in relation to loss of life or deportation. Rapid communication is sought with diplomats, such as the Foreign Minister (or equivalent). The Working Group request immediate action to ensure the detained person's right to life, as well as physical and mental integrity are respected. This a purely humanitarian undertaking, and does not prejudice the Working Group's final opinion on whether the deprivation of liberty is indeed arbitrary.\n\nIn order to fulfil its mandate, the Working Group may conduct country visits. These provide an opportunity for the Group to understand the specific situation prevailing in countries. The Group undertake one to three country visits per year, upon invitation from the Government concerned. For example, in May 2017 the Working Group visited Argentina. In 2016 the Group visited the United States of America and Azerbaijan. The Group tend to visit between one and four countries per year.\n\nOn a country visit, members of the Working Group engage in a variety of tasks. These can include meeting with representatives of the executive, legislators, and other state officials. The Group also has the right to visit places of detention and have private discussions with detainees. Country visits enable the Working Group to gain a greater understanding of the social, political and historical environment in each country, enabling them to create context-appropriate recommendations.\n\nMore generally, the Working Group seeks to encourage broader international understanding of arbitrary detention, and promote universal standards. This is achieved through a more general advisory role, with the formulation of deliberations. The Group formulates deliberations on general issues to assist States in safeguarding against the practice of arbitrary deprivation of liberty. For example, the Group have developed deliberations on issues relating to house arrest, psychiatric detention, deprivation of liberty subsequent to a conviction and resulting from the use of the internet, on rehabilitation through labour and situations regarding immigrants and asylum seekers. The Group have also provided legal analysis regarding the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and clarified the definition of arbitrary deprivation of liberty under customary international law and the urgent appeals procedure.\n\nThe Working Group must submit Annual Reports to the Human Rights Council, summarising the previous year's activities. The report will express observations made while investigating cases and on field missions in differing countries. The report details the Working Group's reasoning behind legal insufficiencies, policies and judicial policies that are the cause of arbitrary deprivation of liberty, and recommend best practice to safeguard against arbitrary deprivation of liberty.\n\nThe Group functions as a quasi-judicial body. The Group has no direct enforcement power of its own. Instead, it relies on communication among states, policy-makers and advocates to encourage governments to implement its recommendations. Due to its reliance on the cooperation of states, it can be argued that this weakens the authority of the Group.\n\nThe opinions of the Working Group however are legally binding to the extent that they are based on binding international human rights laws, such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. This is applicable to states that have ratified the Covenant.\n\nThe opinions of the Working Group are considered authoritative by some prominent international judicial institutions including the European Court of Human Rights. The features of the Working Group arguably play a role in its success, as it allows it to provide a politically viable alternative to treaty-based human rights enforcement mechanisms. The flexible mandate enables it to avoid direct political confrontation with governments, ultimately achieving more politically acceptable and lasting solutions to individual cases of arbitrary detention. While the opinions of the Working Group are not binding on states, they can facilitate information sharing among non-governmental organisations and governments. This can in turn lead to an increase in government accountability.\n\nA further criticism of the Group is that it has taken no steps toward creating a robust follow up procedure, to apply pressure on states arbitrarily detaining individuals. Establishing a systematic follow up procedure could ensure an even greater accountability on governments, acting as a name and shame process to pressure them into action. A follow up procedure may also be beneficial for providing feedback for future policy decisions. It could also aid non-governmental organisations in petitioning governments with unresolved cases. Having a record of resolved cases could help the Group to keep track of the status of detainees and any correlation between the action of the Working Group. Information and statistics drawn from this can be publicised, and help to increase outreach.\n\nIn 2012, the Human Rights Council requested the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention to develop draft basic principles. These were to provide guidelines on remedies and procedures for anyone deprived of his or her liberty by arrest or detention to bring proceedings before court, in order that the court may decide without delay on the lawfulness of his or her detention and order his or her release if the detention is not lawful. The intention behind these were to assist states in fulfilling their obligation to avoid arbitrary deprivation of liberty. States, treaty bodies, human rights institutions and non-governmental organisations were invited to submit details on the treatment of the right to bring such proceedings before a court, in their respective legal frameworks. The text was adopted in April 2015.\n\nOn 5 February 2016, the group released a report stating that Assange had been subject to arbitrary detention by the UK and Swedish Governments since 7 December 2010, including his time in prison in Britain and Sweden, on conditional bail, and in the Ecuadorian embassy. According to the report, Assange should be allowed to walk free and be given compensation.\n\nThe UK and Swedish governments rejected the report. Then-UK Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Philip Hammond, said the claim was \"ridiculous\" and that the group was \"made up of lay people\", and called Assange a \"fugitive from justice\" who \"can come out any time he chooses\". UK and Swedish prosecutors called the group's claims irrelevant. The UK said it would arrest Assange should he leave the Ecuadorian embassy. Mark Ellis, executive director of the International Bar Association, stated that the finding is \"not binding on British law\". United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein has claimed that the finding is based on international law.\n\nOn 13th February 2018, the Westminster Magistrates’ Court, while considering whether the arrest warrant issued against Assange should be upheld, rejected the findings of the Working Group, stating in part that \"The group appears to have based its conclusions on some misunderstandings of what occurred after Mr Assange’s arrest.\" Senior District Judge (Chief Magistrate) Emma Arbuthnot did not find that Mr Assange’s stay in the Embassy was \"inappropriate, unjust, unpredictable, unreasonable, unnecessary or disproportionate.\" \n"}
