{"id": "25996404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25996404", "title": "Afro-Anglo Americans", "text": "Afro-Anglo Americans\n\nAn Afro-Anglo American (also Afro-Anglo) is an Anglo-American person of partial African ancestry; the term may also refer to historical or cultural elements in Anglo-America thought to emanate from this community.\n\n"}
{"id": "59139238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59139238", "title": "Alexander-Martin Sardina", "text": "Alexander-Martin Sardina\n\nAlexander-Martin Sardina (born 15 September 1973; , ) is a German historian of education, consultant, and former member of parliament for the Christian Democratic Union of Germany (CDU). Sardina holds dual citizenship and is also an Italian national.\n\nSardina was born and raised in Hamburg, Germany. His father moved from Sicily, Italy, to Germany in the 1960s, his mother is from Hamburg. Sardina went to the notable secondary school Sankt-Ansgar-Schule, at that time run by the Society of Jesus, an order of the Catholic Church. In 1990, he was an exchange student at the Loyola High School, Los Angeles, California. He graduated from the Sankt-Ansgar-Schule with receiving the \"Abitur\" in 1994.\n\nHe then studied pedagogy, American studies, and political science at the University of Hamburg. Research stays led him to the United States, China, Macau, and Hong Kong. In 1999, Sardina worked as a teacher intern at the Los Angeles Central High School, Hollywood. He completed his studies with obtaining a \"Staatsexamen\" in 2002. His state exam thesis deals with the contradicting educational concepts during the period of national socialism in Germany focussed on the National Political Institutes of Education. In 2016, he became a Doctor of Philosophy \"(Dr. phil.)\" for examining the history of teaching English in the Soviet occupation zone \"(SBZ)\" and East Germany \"(DDR)\" from 1945 to 1989 (two volumes). His dissertation is based both on the analysis of official documents and contributions made by contemporary witnesses.\n\nSardina works as a consultant, mainly in Berlin, Germany.\n\nSardina joined the CDU, Germany's leading conservative party, in 1994. His first public office was being a member of the board of the ministry of education \"(Behörde für Schule, Jugend und Berufsbildung)\" in Hamburg from 1997 to 2002. Subsequently, as a result of the general state elections of 2001, he became a member of the board of the ministry of environment and health \"(Behörde für Umwelt und Gesundheit)\". From 2001 to 2004, Sardina was the party secretary (\"the whip\") of the parliamentary group of the CDU in the regional assembly (\"\") of the district of Hamburg-Mitte. After the 2004 general elections, his party held the majority of seats and thus he became chairman of the regional assembly.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2008, Sardina was a member of the Hamburg Parliament, the \"Hamburgische Bürgerschaft\". As an MP, he was a member of the committees for European affairs and for petitions as well as for the parliamentary investigation committee on the prison for juvenile delinquents located in \"Feuerbachstraße\" in the Barmbek district. He was a deputy member of the committees for budget affairs, for cultural affairs, and for urban development and planning. Sardina also served as the spokesman of the CDU fraction for Asian affairs. He additionally was a member of the board of directors of the \"Asien-Brücke\", a Senate-run charity foundation for the benefit of Asian states with the main focus on development aid to Sri Lanka.\n\nSardina was the first MP who had an electoral district office. It was open to the local public and located in a former colonial goods shop in the Horn district. First mayor Ole von Beust opened the location with a reception on 12 January 2006.\n\nSardina joined the European Movement in 1994. He used to be a member and chairman of the Young European Federalists and was made their honorary member in 2009. As a former MP, he is also a member of the German Parliamentary Society, Berlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1360", "title": "Anazarbus", "text": "Anazarbus\n\nAnazarbus (, medieval Ain Zarba; modern Anavarza; ) was an ancient Cilician city and (arch)bishopric, which remains a Latin Catholic titular see.\n\nIt was situated in Anatolia in modern Turkey, in the present Çukurova (or classical Aleian plain) about 15 km west of the main stream of the present Ceyhan River (or classical Pyramus river) and near its tributary the Sempas Su.\n\nA lofty isolated ridge formed its acropolis. Though some of the masonry in the ruins is certainly pre-Roman, the Suda's identification of it with Cyinda, famous as a treasure city in the wars of Eumenes of Cardia, cannot be accepted in the face of Strabo's express location of Cyinda in western Cilicia.\n\nIt was founded by Assyrians. Under the early Roman Empire the place was known as Caesarea (), and was the Metropolis (capital) of Late Roman province Cilicia Secunda. It was the home of the poet Oppian.\nRebuilt by the Eastern Roman emperor Justin I after an earthquake in the 6th century, it became Justinopolis (525); but the old native name persisted, and when Thoros I, king of Lesser Armenia, made it his capital early in the 12th century, it was known as Anazarva.\n\nIts great natural strength and situation, not far from the mouth of the Sis pass, and near the great road which debouched from the Cilician Gates, made Anazarbus play a considerable part in the struggles between the Eastern Roman Empire and the early Muslim invaders. It had been rebuilt by Harun al-Rashid in 796, refortified at great expense by the Hamdanid Sayf al-Dawla (mid-10th century) and again destroyed in 962 by Nikephoros II Phokas.\n\nIn late 1097 or early 1098 it was captured by the armies of the First Crusade and was incorporated into Bohemond's Principality of Antioch. The Crusaders are probably responsible for the construction of an impressive donjon atop the center of the outcrop. Most of the remaining fortifications, including the curtain walls, massive horse-shaped towers, undercrofts, cisterns, and free-standing structures date from the Armenian periods of occupation, which began with the arrival of the Rubenid Baron T‛oros I, . The site briefly exchanged hands between the Greeks and Armenians, until it was formally part of the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia. Within the fortress are two Armenian chapels and the magnificent (but severely damaged) three-aisle church built by T‛oros I to celebrate his conquests. The church was once surrounded by a continuous, well-executed dedicatory inscription in Armenian.\n\nThe Mamluk Empire of Egypt finally destroyed the city in 1374.\n\nThe present wall of the lower city is of late construction. It encloses a mass of ruins conspicuous in which are a fine triumphal arch, the colonnades of two streets, a gymnasium, etc. A stadium and a theatre lie outside the walls to the south. The remains of the acropolis fortifications are very interesting, including roads and ditches hewn in the rock. There are no notable structures in the upper town. For picturesqueness the site is not equaled in Cilicia, and it is worthwhile to trace the three fine aqueducts to their sources. A necropolis on the escarpment to the south of the curtain wall can also be seen complete with signs of illegal modern excavations.\n\nA visit in December 2002 showed that the three aqueducts mentioned above have been nearly completely destroyed. Only small, isolated sections are left standing with the largest portion lying in a pile of rubble that stretches the length of where the aqueducts once stood. A powerful earthquake that struck the area in 1945 is thought to be responsible for the destruction.\n\nA modest Turkish farming village (Dilekkaya) lies to the southwest of the ancient city. A small outdoor museum with some of the artifacts collected in the area can be viewed for a small fee. Also nearby are some beautiful mosaics discovered in a farmers field. Inquire at the museum for a viewing.\n\nAnazarbus/Anavarsa was one of a chain of Armenian fortifications stretching through Cilicia. The castle of Sis (modern Kozan, Adana) lies to the north while Tumlu Castle and Yilankale are to the south, and the fortresses of Amouda and Sarvandikar are to the east.\n\nIn 2013, excavations uncovered the first known colonnaded double-lane road of the ancient world, 34 meters wide and 2700 meters long, also uncovered the ruins of a church and a bathhouse.\n\nIn 2017, archaeologists discovered a limestone statue of the goddess Hygieia and the god Eros. The statue is thought to date to the third or fourth century B.C.\n\nAnazarbus was the capital and so also from 553 (the date of the Second Council of Constantinople) the metropolitan see of the Late Roman province of Cilicia Secunda.\n\nIn the 4th century, one of the bishops of Anazarbus was Athanasius, a \"consistent expounder of the theology of Arius.\" His theological opponent, Athanasius of Alexandria, in De Synodis 17, 1 refers to Anazarbus as Ναζαρβῶν. \n\nA 6th century \"Notitia Episcopatuum\" indicates that it had as suffragan sees Epiphania, Alexandria Minor, Irenopolis, Flavias, Castabala and Aegeae. Rhosus was also subject to Anazarbus, but after the 6th century was made exempt, and Mopsuestia was raised to the rank of autcephalous metropolitan see, though without suffragans.\n\nIt faded, but got two Catholic titular successor sees.\n\nThe archdiocese was nominally restored in the 18th century, when was established a Latin Catholic Metropolitan titular archbishopric of Anazarbus.\n\nIt is vacant, having had the following incumbents, generally of the highest (Metropolitan) rank, \"with an episcopal (lowest rank) exception :\n\nIn the 19th century, an Armenian Catholic titular bishopric of Anazarbus (of the Armenians) (Anazarbus degli Armeniin Curiate Italian) was established.\n\nIt was a suppressed in 1933, having had a single incumbent, of the intermediary (archiepiscopal) rank :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1132739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132739", "title": "Animal style", "text": "Animal style\n\nAnimal style art is an approach to decoration found from China to Northern Europe in the early Iron Age, and the barbarian art of the Migration Period, characterized by its emphasis on animal motifs. The zoomorphic style of decoration was used to decorate small objects by warrior-herdsmen, whose economy was based on breeding and herding animals, supplemented by trade and plunder. Animal art is a more general term for all art depicting animals.\n\nScythian art makes great use of animal motifs, one component of the \"Scythian triad\" of weapons, horse-harness, and Scythian-style wild animal art. The cultures referred to as Scythian-style included the Cimmerian and Sarmatian cultures in European Sarmatia and stretched across the Eurasian steppe north of the Near East to the Ordos culture of China. These cultures were extremely influential in spreading many local versions of the style.\n\nSteppe jewellery features various animals including stags, cats, birds, horses, bears, wolves and mythical beasts. The gold figures of stags in a crouching position with legs tucked beneath its body, head upright and muscles tight to give the impression of speed, are particularly impressive. The \"looped\" antlers of most figures are a distinctive feature, not found in Chinese images of deer. The species represented has seemed to many scholars to be the reindeer, which was not found in the regions inhabited by the steppes peoples at this period. The largest of these were the central ornaments for shields, while others were smaller plaques probably attached to clothing. The stag appears to have had a special significance for the steppes peoples, perhaps as a clan totem. The most notable of these figures include the examples from:\n\nAnother characteristic form is the openwork plaque including a stylized tree over the scene at one side, of which two examples are illustrated here. Later large Greek-made pieces often include a zone showing Scythian men apparently going about their daily business, in scenes more typical of Greek art than nomad-made pieces. Some scholars have attempted to attach narrative meanings to such scenes, but this remains speculative.\n\nAlthough gold was widely used by the ruling elite of the various Scythian tribes, the predominant material for the various animal forms was bronze. The bulk of these items were used to decorate horse harness, leather belts & personal clothing. In some cases these bronze animal figures when sewn onto stiff leather jerkins & belts, helped to act as armour.\nThe use of the animal form went further than just ornament, these seemingly imbuing the owner of the item with similar prowess and powers of the animal which was depicted. Thus the use of these forms extended onto the accoutrements of warfare, be they swords, daggers, scabbards, or axes.\n\nA distinct Permian style of bronze or copper alloy objects from around the 5th–10th centuries AD are found near the Ural mountains and the Volga and Kama rivers in Russia.\n\nThe study of Germanic zoomorphic decoration was pioneered by Bernhard Salin in a work published in 1904. Salin classified animal art from roughly 400 to 900 AD into three phases. The origins of these different phases remain the subject of debate; developing trends in late-Roman popular provincial art was an element, as were proceeding traditions of the nomadic Asiatic steppe peoples. Styles I and II are found widely across Europe in the art of the \"barbarian\" peoples during the Migration Period.\n\nStyle I. First appearing in northwest Europe, first expressed with the introduction of the chip carving technique applied to bronze and silver in the 5th century. It is characterized by animals whose bodies are divided into sections, and typically appear at the fringes of designs whose main emphasis is on abstract patterns.\n\nStyle II. After about 560–570 Style I, declining, began to be supplanted. The animals of Style II are whole beasts, their bodies elongated into \"ribbons\" which intertwined into symmetrical shapes with no pretense of naturalism—rarely with legs—tending to be described as serpents, though heads often have characteristics of other animals. The animals become subsumed into ornamental patterns, typically interlace. Examples of Style II can be found on the gold purse lid () from Sutton Hoo (c. 625).\n\nAfter about 700 localised styles develop, and it is no longer very useful to talk of a general Germanic style. Salin Style III is found mainly in Scandinavia, and may also be called Viking art. Interlace, where it occurs, becomes less regular and more complex, and if not three-dimensional animals are usually seen in profile but twisted, exaggerated, surreal, with fragmented body parts filling every available space, creating an intense detailed energetic feel. Animals' bodies become hard for the unpractised viewer to read, and there is a very common motif of the \"gripping beast\" where an animal's mouth grips onto another element of the composition to connect two parts. Animal style was one component, along with Celtic art and late classical elements, in the formation of style of Insular art and Anglo-Saxon art in the British Isles, and through these routes and others on the Continent, left a considerable legacy in later Medieval art.\n\nOther names are sometimes used: in Anglo-Saxon art Kendrick preferred \"Helmet\" and \"Ribbon\" for Styles I and II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10855498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10855498", "title": "Biocultural anthropology", "text": "Biocultural anthropology\n\nBiocultural anthropology can be defined in numerous ways. It is the scientific exploration of the relationships between human biology and culture. \"Instead of looking for the biology underlying biological roots of human behavior, biocultural anthropology attempts to understand how culture affects our biological capacities and limitations.\"\n\nPhysical anthropologists throughout the first half of the 20th century viewed this relationship from a racial perspective; that is, from the assumption that typological human biological differences lead to cultural differences. After World War II the emphasis began to shift toward an effort to explore the role culture plays in shaping human biology. The shift towards understanding the role of culture to human biology led to the development of Dual inheritance theory in the 1960s. In relation to, and following the development of Dual-inheritance theory, biocultural evolution was introduced and first used in the 1970s.\n\n\nBiocultural methods focus on the interactions between humans and their environment to understand human biological adaptation and variation. Contemporary biocultural anthropologists view culture as having several key roles in human biological variation:\n\nWhile biocultural anthropologists are found in many academic anthropology departments, usually as a minority of the faculty, certain departments have placed considerable emphasis on the \"biocultural synthesis\". Historically, this has included Emory University, the University of Alabama, UMass Amherst (especially in biocultural bioarchaeology) , and the University of Washington , each of which built Ph.D. programs around biocultural anthropology; Binghamton University, which has a M.S. program in biomedical anthropology; Oregon State University, University of Kentucky and others. Paul Baker, an anthropologist at Penn State whose work focused upon human adaptation to environmental variations, is credited with having popularized the concept of \"biocultural\" anthropology as a distinct subcategory of anthropology in general. Khongsdier argues that biocultural anthropology is the future of anthropology because it serves as a guiding force towards greater integration of the subdisciplines.\n\nOther anthropologists, both biological and cultural, have criticized the biocultural synthesis, generally as part of a broader critique of \"four-field holism\" in U.S. anthropology (see anthropology main article). Typically such criticisms rest on the belief that biocultural anthropology imposes holism upon the biological and cultural subfields without adding value, or even destructively. For instance, contributors in the edited volume \"Unwrapping the Sacred Bundle: Reflections on the Disciplining of Anthropology\" argued that the biocultural synthesis, and anthropological holism more generally, are artifacts from 19th century social evolutionary thought that inappropriately impose scientific positivism upon cultural anthropology.\n\nSome departments of anthropology have fully split, usually dividing scientific from humanistic anthropologists, such as Stanford's highly publicized 1998 division into departments of \"Cultural and Social Anthropology\" and \"Anthropological Sciences\". Underscoring the continuing controversy, this split is now being reversed over the objections of some faculty. Other departments, such as at Harvard, have distinct biological and sociocultural anthropology \"wings\" not designed to foster cross subdisciplinary interchange.\n\nBiocultural approaches were derived from biology and science yet social theorists are feeling encroached upon. The Biocultural approach has also not been a central concern to anthropologists which is a contributor to the splitting of the approach into sociocultural anthropology and biosocial anthropology. Biocultural research has shown to contain a few challenges to the researcher. \"In general we are much more experienced in measuring the biological than the cultural. It is also difficult to precisely define what is meant by constructs such as socioeconomic status, poverty, rural, and urban. Operationalizing key variables so that they can be measured in ways that are enthnographically valid as well as replicable. Defining and measuring multiple causal pathways.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3625628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3625628", "title": "Bodowyr", "text": "Bodowyr\n\nBodowyr Burial Chamber is a Neolithic burial chamber made of a few large stacked stones (also known as a dolmen or a passage grave) in a farmer's field on the north Wales island of Anglesey. It is located at Bodowyr Farm, east of Llangaffo, off the B4419 road.\n\nWriting in the \"Mona Antiqua Restaurata\" in the early eighteenth century, the antiquarian Henry Rowland described this as \"a pretty cromlech standing at the top of a hillock at Bodowyr\". He also mentioned a \"small cirque\" nearby and the remnants of a cairn from which the stones had mostly been removed for use as building stone; no trace remains of these structures. In 1833 the capstone was said to be supported by four upright stones so one of these would appear to have fallen since then.\n\nBodowyr Burial Chamber is the central burial chamber of a passage grave of a type more frequently found in Ireland. The chamber has three upright stones about a metre high supporting a robust, wedge-shaped capstone. A large stone lying flat nearby on the western side may have been part of the structure, perhaps another upright, or a blocking stone, and another low stone beside the entrance to the east which was perhaps a kerb or sill. Originally a mound of earth or rubble would have covered or partially covered the dolmen, and there would have been a passage from the entrance on the southeast to the side of the mound. The mound has since been completely dispersed. The location is on level, low-lying ground and it is not apparent why this particular site should have been chosen. The fact that Snowdon and the Glyderau are visible in the distance, with the Llanberis Pass between them, may be significant, and there may be some solar or lunar alignment as seen from the entrance that has not yet been elucidated. \n\nBodowyr Burial Chamber is under the care of the Welsh Heritage organisation Cadw. It is open throughout the year, apart from 24, 25 and 26 December and 1 January, between the hours of 10am and 4pm. It can be accessed by walking across a sometimes muddy field. There is no entry charge.\n"}
{"id": "6847449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6847449", "title": "British National Corpus", "text": "British National Corpus\n\nThe British National Corpus (BNC) is a 100-million-word text corpus of samples of written and spoken English from a wide range of sources. The corpus covers British English of the late 20th century from a wide variety of genres, with the intention that it be a representative sample of spoken and written British English of that time.\n\nThe project to create the BNC involved the collaboration of three publishers (with the Oxford University Press as the lead collaborator, Longman and W. & R. Chambers), two universities (the University of Oxford and Lancaster University), and the British Library. The creation of the BNC started in 1991 under the management of the BNC consortium, and the project was finished by 1994. There have been no additions of new samples after 1994, but the BNC underwent slight revisions before the release of the second edition BNC World (2001) and the third edition BNC XML Edition (2007).\n\nThe BNC was the vision of computational linguists whose goal was a corpus of modern (at the time of building the corpus), naturally occurring language in the form of speech and text or writing that could be analyzed by a computer. Hence, it was compiled as a general corpus to pave the way for automatic search and processing in the field of corpus linguistics. One of the ways the BNC was to be differentiated from existing corpora at that time was to open up the data not just to academic research, but also to commercial and educational uses.\n\nThe corpus was restricted to just British English, and was not extended to cover World Englishes. This was partly because a significant portion of the cost of the project was being funded by the British government which was logically interested in supporting documentation of its own linguistic variety. Because of its potentially unprecedented size, the BNC required funds from the commercial and academic institutions as well. In turn, BNC data then became available for commercial and academic research.\n\nThe BNC is a monolingual corpus, as it records samples of language use in British English only, although occasionally words and phrases from other languages may also be present. It is a synchronic corpus, as only language use from the late 20th century is represented; the BNC is not meant to be a historical record of the development of British English over the ages. From the beginning, those involved in the gathering of written data sought to make the BNC a balanced corpus, and hence looked for data in various mediums.\n\n90% of the BNC is samples of \"written corpus\" use. These samples were extracted from regional and national newspapers, published research journals or periodicals from various academic fields, fiction and non-fiction books, other published material, and unpublished material such as leaflets, brochures, letters, essays written by students of differing academic levels, speeches, scripts, and many other types of texts.\n\nThe remaining 10% of the BNC is samples of spoken language use. These are presented and recorded in the form of orthographic transcriptions. The \"spoken corpus\" consists of two parts: one part is demographic, containing the transcriptions of spontaneous natural conversations produced by volunteers of various age groups, social classes and originating from different regions. These conversations were produced in different situations, including formal business or government meetings to conversations on radio shows and phone-ins. These were to account for both the demographic distribution of spoken language and those of linguistically significant variation due to context.\n\nThe other part involves context-governed samples such as transcriptions of recordings made at specific types of meeting and event. All the original recordings transcribed for inclusion in the BNC have been deposited at the British Library Sound Archive. The majority of the recordings are freely available from the Oxford University Phonetics Laboratory.\n\nTwo sub-corpora (subsets of the BNC data) have been released: BNC Baby and BNC Sampler. Both these sub-corpora may be ordered online via the BNC webpage. BNC Baby is a sub-corpus of BNC that consists of four sets of samples, each containing one million words tagged as they are in BNC itself. The words in each sample set correspond to a specific genre label. One sample set contains spoken conversation and the other three sample sets contain written text: academic writing, fiction and newspapers respectively. The latest (third) edition has been released and comes in XML format. The BNC Sampler is a two-part sub-corpora, a part each for written and spoken data; each part contains one million words. The BNC Sampler was originally used in a project to work out how to improve the tagging process for the BNC, which eventually led to the BNC World edition. Throughout the project, the BNC Sampler was improved with increasing expertise and knowledge for tagging to arrive at its current form.\n\nThe BNC corpus has been tagged for grammatical information (part of speech). The tagging system, named CLAWS, went through improvements to yield the latest CLAWS4 system, which is used for tagging the BNC. CLAWS1 was based on a hidden Markov model and, when employed in automatic tagging, managed to successfully tag 96% to 97% of each text analyzed. CLAWS1 was upgraded to CLAWS2 by removing the need for manual processing to prepare the texts for automatic tagging. The latest version, CLAWS4, includes improvements such as more powerful word-sense disambiguation (WSD) abilities, and the ability to deal with variation in orthography and markup language. Later work on the tagging system looked at increasing the success rates in automatic tagging and reducing the work needed for manual processing, while maintaining effectiveness and efficiency by introducing software to replace some of the manual work. Subsequently, a new program called the \"Template Tagger\" was introduced for a corrective function. Tags indicating ambiguity were later added. Manual tagging is still necessary, as CLAWS4 is still unable to deal with foreign words.\n\nThe corpus is marked up following the recommendations of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) and includes full linguistic annotation and contextual information. The licence for the CLAWS4 part-of-speech tagger may be purchased to use the tagger. Alternatively, a tagging service is offered at Lancaster University. The BNC itself may be ordered with either a personal or institutional license. The edition available is the BNC XML edition and it comes with the Xaira search engine software. Ordering may be carried out via the BNC website. An online corpus manager, BNCweb, has been developed for the BNC XML edition. The interface is designed to be easy to use, and the program offers query features and functions for corpus analysis. Users can retrieve results and data from searches and analyses.\n\nThe BNC was the first text corpus of its size to be made widely available. This could be attributed to the standard forms of agreement, between rights owners and the Consortium on the one hand, and between corpus users and the Consortium on the other. Intellectual property rights owners were sought for their agreement with the standard licence, including willingness to incorporate their materials in the corpus without any fees. This arrangement may have been facilitated by the originality of the concept and the prominence associated with the project. However, it was a challenge to keep the identity of contributors hidden without discrediting the value of their work. Any distinct allusion to the identity of contributors was largely removed; the alternative solution of substituting the identity of a contributor with a different name was discussed, but not considered feasible.\n\nAdditionally, contributors had earlier been asked only to incorporate transcribed versions of their speech and not the speech itself. While permission could be sought from initial contributors again, the lack of success in the anonymization process meant that it would be challenging to seek materials from initial contributors. At the same time, two factors compounded the unwillingness of rights owners to donate their materials: full texts were to be excluded, and there was no motivation for them to disseminate information using the corpus, particularly since the corpus operates on a non-commercial basis.\n\nBy 2001, the BNC still had no text categorisation for written texts beyond that of domain, and no categorisation for spoken texts except by context and demographic or socio-economic classes. For example, a wide variety of imaginative texts (novels, short stories, poems, and drama scripts) were included in the BNC, but such inclusions were deemed useless as researchers were unable to easily retrieve the subgenres on which they wanted to work (e.g., poetry). Because this metadata was omitted in the file headers and in all BNC documentation, there was no way to know whether an \"imaginative\" text actually came from a novel, a short story, a drama script or a collection of poems unless the title actually included words such as \"novel\" or \"poem\").\n\nWith the 2002 introduction of a new version, the BNC World Edition, BNC attempted to deal with this problem. Besides domain, there are now 70 categories for genre for both spoken and written data, and so researchers can now specifically retrieve texts by genre. Even after these additions, however, implementation is still tricky, as assigning a genre or subgenre to a text is not straightforward. The divisions are less clear for spoken data than they are for written data, as there was more variation in topic and execution. Also, there will always be possible subsets of genres of each subgenre. How far genres are subdivided is pre-determined for the sake of a default, but researchers have the option of making the divisions more general or specific according to their needs. Categorisation is also a problem, as certain texts, while deemed to belong to an interdisciplinary genre such as linguistics, include content that is subsequently categorised into either arts or science categories due to the nature of their content.\n\nSome texts were classified under the wrong category, usually because of a misleading title. Users cannot always rely on the titles of the files as indications of their real content: For example, many texts with \"lecture\" in their title are actually classroom discussions or tutorial seminars involving a very small group of people, or were popular lectures (addressed to a general audience rather than to students at an institution of higher learning). One reason is that genre and subgenre labels can only be assigned for the majority of the texts in a category. There are subgenres within genres, and for each text the content may not be uniform throughout and may span multiple subgenres. Also, production pressures coupled with insufficient information led to hasty decisions, resulting in inaccuracy and inconsistency in records.\n\nThe proportion of written to spoken material in the BNC is 10:1, making spoken material under-represented. This is because the cost of collecting and transcribing one million words of naturally occurring speech is at least 10 times higher than the cost of adding another million words of newspaper text. Some linguists have argued that this represents a deficiency in the corpus, since speech and writing are both equally important in a language. The BNC is not ideal for the study of many features of spoken discourse, since most of its transcripts are orthographic. Paralinguistic features are only roughly indicated.\n\nDespite being an excellent source of lexical information, the BNC can only really be used to study a limited set of grammatical patterns, particularly those which have distinctive lexical correlates. While it is easy enough to find all the occurrences of \"enjoy\", and to sort them according to the part-of-speech category of the following word, it requires additional work to find all cases of verbs followed by a gerund, since the SARA index of the BNC does not include part-of-speech categories such as \"all verbs\" or \"all V-ing forms\".\n\nSome lexical correlates are also too ambiguous to allow them to be used in queries: any search for restrictive relative clauses would provide the user with irrelevant data, given the number of other uses of wh-pronouns and of that in the language (not to mention the impossibility of identifying relative clauses with pronoun deletion, as in \"the man I saw\"). Particular semantic and pragmatic categories (doubt, cognisance, disagreements, summaries, etc.) are difficult to locate for the same reason. This means, for example, that while one can compare speech by men and by women, one cannot compare speech \"to\" women and \"to\" men.\n\nThe nature of the BNC as a large mixed corpus renders it unsuitable for the study of highly specific text-types or genres, as any one of them is likely to be inadequately represented and may not be recognisable from the encoding. For example, there are very few business letters and service encounters in the BNC, and those wishing to explore their specific conventions would do better to compile a small corpus including only texts of those types.\n\nThere are two general ways in which corpus material can be used in language teaching.\n\nFirstly, publishers and researchers could use corpus samples to create language-learning references, syllabuses and other related tools or materials. For example, the BNC was used by a group of Japanese researchers as a tool in their creation of an English-language–learning website for learners of English for specific purposes (ESP). The website enabled English-language learners to download frequently heard and used sentence patterns, and then base their own usage of the English language on these sentence patterns. The BNC served as the source from which the frequently used expressions were extracted. In using this website, users thus relied on reference samples from the BNC to guide them in their learning of the English language. Such creation of materials that facilitate language-learning typically involves the use of very large corpora (comparable to the size of the BNC), as well as advanced software and technology. A large amount of money, time, and expertise in the field of computational linguistics are invested in the development of such language-learning material.\n\nSecondly, the analysis of the corpus can be incorporated directly into the language teaching and learning environment. With this method, language learners are given the opportunity to categorize language data from the corpus and subsequently form conclusions about the patterns and features of their target language from their categorizations. This method involves a greater amount of work on the part of the language leaner and is referred to as “data-driven learning” by Tim Johns. The corpus data used for data-driven learning is relatively smaller, and consequently the generalisations made about the target language may be of limited value. In general, the BNC is useful as a reference source for the purposes of producing and perceiving text. The BNC can be used as a reference source when studying the use of individual words in various contexts, so that learners become familiar with the different ways to use particular words in suitable contexts. Other than language-related information, encyclopedic information is also found in the BNC. Learners perusing data from the BNC are also introduced to British cultural features and stereotypes.\n\nThe BNC was the source of more than 12,000 words and phrases used for the production of a range of bilingual dictionaries in India in 2012, translating 22 local languages into English. This was part of a larger movement to push for improvements in education, the preservation of India's vernacular languages, and the development of translation work. The large size of the BNC provides a large-scale resource on which to test programs. It has been used as a test bed for the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) guidelines. The BNC has also been used to provide 20 million words to evaluate English subcategorization acquisition systems for the Senseval initiative for computational analysis of meaning.\n\nHoffman & Lehmann (2000) explored the mechanisms behind speakers' ability to manipulate their large inventory of collocations which are ready for use and can be easily expanded grammatically or syntactically to adapt to the current speech situation. Word combinations occurring in low frequency were extracted from the BNC to offer some insight into it.\n\nPearce (2008) examined the representation of men and women in this corpus by using Sketch Engine. The corpus query tool was used to explore grammatical behaviour of the noun lemmas \"man\" and \"woman\" (i.e., the nouns \"man\"/\"men\" and \"woman\"/\"women\").\n\nFernandez & Ginzburg (2002) investigated dialogue which included non-sentiential utterances using the BNC.\n\nLee & Swales (2006) designed an experimental course in corpus-informed English for Academic Purposes (EAP) for doctoral students at the English Language Institute (ELI) of the University of Michigan in the US.\n\nParticipants used three main corpora as the basis of their investigations: Hyland's Research Article Corpus, the Michigan Corpus of Academic Spoken English (MICASE), and academic texts from the BNC.\n\nAs part of ongoing work on morphological processing, a key area of Natural Language Processing (NLP), data from the BNC was used to test the accuracy, reliability and swiftness of computational tools developed to facilitate the analysis and processing of morphological markers in British English. The computational tools involved a program that enabled the analysis of inflectional morphology in British English (known as an analyser) and a program that generated morphological markings based on the analysis from the analyser. Data from the BNC was also used to build up an extensive repository of information about British English morphological markers. In particular, approximately 1,100 lemmas were extracted from the BNC and compiled into a checklist which was consulted by the morphological generator before verbs that allowed consonant doubling were accurately inflected. Since the BNC represents a recognizable effort to collect and subsequently process such a large amount of data, it has become an influential forerunner in the field and a model or exemplary corpus on which the development of later corpora was based.\n\nIn July 2014, Cambridge University Press and the Centre for Corpus Approaches to Social Science (CASS) announced at Lancaster University that a new British National Corpus - the BNC2014 - was under compilation. The first stage of the collaborative project between the two institutions was to compile a new spoken corpus of British English from the early to mid 2010s. The 11.5-million-word Spoken British National Corpus 2014 was released to the public on 25 September 2017. The 100-million-word written component of the BNC2014 is currently being compiled, and is scheduled to be released to the public in the Autumn of 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4353424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4353424", "title": "Bruce Holland Rogers", "text": "Bruce Holland Rogers\n\nBruce Holland Rogers is an American author of short fiction who also writes under the pseudonym Hanovi Braddock. His stories have won a Pushcart Prize, two Nebula Awards, the Bram Stoker Award, two World Fantasy Awards, the Micro Award, and have been nominated for the Edgar Allan Poe Award and Spain's Premio Ignotus.\n\nThe 2001 short film \"The Other Side\", directed by Mary Stuart Masterson, was based on his novelette, \"Lifeboat on a Burning Sea\".\n\nHe is a member of the Wordos writers' group and was a member of the fiction faculty at the MFA program in creative writing of the Northwest Institute of Literary Arts. He has taught fiction writing seminars in Denmark, Greece, Finland, and Portugal. In 2010 he taught at Eötvös Loránd University in Budapest on a Fulbright grant.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5692815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5692815", "title": "Byzantine Fresco Chapel", "text": "Byzantine Fresco Chapel\n\nThe Byzantine Fresco Chapel is a part of the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas, near the University of St. Thomas. From February 1997 to February 2012, it displayed the only intact Byzantine frescoes of this size and importance in the entire western hemisphere. The Byzantine frescoes had been taken from the church of St. Evphemianos in Lysi, Cyprus in the 1980s. In September 2011, the collection announced that the frescos would be permanently returned to Cyprus in February 2012, following the conclusion of a long-term loan agreement with the Greek Orthodox Church of Cyprus. The frescoes had been presented at the museum by agreement with the Church of Cyprus, their owners, but the church decided not to extend the loan further. They will not return to their original home as Lysi is now in Northern Cyprus, but will be displayed at the Byzantine Museum in Nicosia. On March 4, 2012, the Byzantine Fresco Chapel closed, but re-opened in 2015 for the first in a series of site-specific projects.\n\nThe chapel was opened in February 1997, and displayed masterworks from the 13th century—a dome with Christ Pantocrator and an apse depicting the Virgin Mary the Panayia. The frescoes had been stolen from a chapel near Lysi in the Turkish-occupied section of Cyprus in the 1980s, cut into 38 pieces, and shipped to Germany by thieves to sell them in the arts black-market. The 38 fresco fragments were bought from the thieves by the Houston-based Menil Foundation on behalf of the Church of Cyprus, the rightful owner of the frescoes. The Menil Foundation then funded a careful restoration of the paintings. These intact frescoes were unique in the western hemisphere.\n\nThe major part of the collection consisted of the frescoes of the dome and apse. According to the guide to the museum, \"the Lysi dome represents Christ Pantokrator, 'All sovereign'. It defines a space with no beginning and no end.\" The depiction of Christ gazing directly forward \"has driven time out of space. His gaze is transworldly: not looking but all-seeing.\" By not depicting the Lord below the bust, he is \"universal and ubiquitous.\" Surrounding the figure of Christ is a double row of angels moving towards the throne prepared by God the Father for the Second Coming of Christ. The throne is guarded by the Archangel Michael and Archangel Gabriel and two seraphim. The Virgin Mary leads one line of angels to the throne, while John the Baptist leads the other.\n\nIn the apse, the Virgin was depicted as flanked by the two archangels with a medallion on her breast of the infant Christ, symbolizing the Incarnation of Christ.\n\n\"The Infinity Machine\". This rotating work by Janet Cardiff & George Bures Miller incorporates an array of antique mirrors suspended from above, accompanied by sonic elements made from NASA recordings of solar winds interacting with planetary ionospheres.\n\nThe $4 million building was designed by architect François de Menil. The interior combines rough stone, opaque glass, and rich woods, to create a space that is both art museum and spiritual space. The suspended-glass \"walls\" are not replicas of the chapel that the frescoes were removed from, but created a new context for displaying the icons. In order not to simply replicate the original chapel, de Menil designed \"a mediating external building with an embedded steel structure – a 'reliquary box' – which forms a neutral enclosure for a freestanding chapel,\" according to Christine Slessor in \"The Architectural Review\".\n\nThe Byzantine chapel is oriented to face the cardinal directions – the facades face directly north, south, east and west. The enclosed space measures approximately . There are no windows on the surface area of the building, except for a skylight of of clear, double glazed glass, which permits natural light to pervade the interior. A rough limestone wall on the outside of the building evoked the rough construction of the original chapel in Cyprus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24797810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24797810", "title": "Charles L. Kuhn", "text": "Charles L. Kuhn\n\nCharles L. Kuhn (1902-1985) was an American academic, art historian, and Director of Harvard University's Busch-Reisinger Museum.\n\nKuhn earned a PhD at Harvard in 1929.\n\nIn 1930, Kuhn joined the Harvard faculty. In addition to teaching, he was named director of the Busch-Reisinger Museum, which was dedicated to the study and artworks of Germanic countries.\n\nHis academic career was interrupted by military service in the Second World War. At war's end, he returned to teach at Harvard.\n\nLieutenant Commander Charles Kuhn was activated from the United States Naval Reserve (USNR) during the Second World War. He was a Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives (MFAA) Officer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "326609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326609", "title": "Church of Euthanasia", "text": "Church of Euthanasia\n\nThe Church of Euthanasia (also known as CoE) is a religious organization founded by Reverend Chris Korda and Pastor Kim (Robert Kimberk) in Boston, Massachusetts, United States in 1992.\n\nAs stated in the Church's website, it is \"a non-profit educational foundation devoted to restoring balance between Humans and the remaining species on Earth\". Members of this organization affirm this can only turn into a reality by a massive voluntary population reduction, which will depend on a leap in human consciousness to species-awareness. According to Rev. Chris Korda it is likely that this Church is the world's only anti-human religion.\n\nIts most popular slogan is \"Save the Planet, Kill Yourself\" and its founding ideology is set in one commandment \"Thou Shalt not Procreate\", and four main pillars: suicide, abortion, cannibalism (of the already dead) and sodomy (\"any sexual act not intended for procreation\"). The Church stresses population reduction by voluntary means only.\n\nThe Church promotes its environmental views mainly via their website and the web. They also utilize sermons, art performances, public demonstrations, culture jamming, music, publicity stunts and direct action to highlight Earth's unsustainable population. They consider their methodology similar to those of the Dadaist movement, finding the modern world so absurd that the means needed to reach their message to the public must be absurd themselves.\n\nThe Church of Euthanasia is also notorious for its conflicts with pro-life Christian activists.\n\nSlogans employed by the group include \"Save the Planet, Kill Yourself\", \"Six Billion Humans Can't Be Wrong\", and \"Eat a Queer Fetus for Jesus\".\n\nThe Church gained early attention in 1995 because of its affiliation with paranoia.com which hosted many sites that were controversial or skirted illegality. Members later appeared on an episode of \"The Jerry Springer Show\" titled \"I Want to Join a Suicide Cult\".\n\nFollowing the September 11, 2001 attacks, the Church posted to its website a four-minute music video titled \"I Like to Watch,\" combining hardcore pornographic video with footage of the World Trade Center collapse. The montage featured an electronic soundtrack recorded by Korda and the lyrics, \"People dive into the street/ While I play with my meat.\" It also showed a man masturbating and then cleaning himself with an American flag. Korda described the project as reflecting his \"contempt for and frustration with the profound ugliness of the modern industrial world.\"\n\nThe Church's website previously had instructions on \"how to kill yourself\" by asphyxiation using helium. These pages were removed in 2003 after a 52-year-old woman used them to commit suicide in St. Louis County, Missouri, resulting in legal threats against the church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13868641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13868641", "title": "Clayton Homes", "text": "Clayton Homes\n\nClayton Homes is the largest builder of manufactured housing and modular homes in the US. Clayton Homes is owned by Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway.\n\nClayton's corporate headquarters are in Maryville, Tennessee. Its subsidiaries include Vanderbilt Mortgage, 21st Mortgage, the nation's largest manufactured home lender, and insurance company HomeFirst Agency.\n\nClayton Homes was founded in 1956 by Jim Clayton. In 1974, Clayton Homes established its own mortgage company, and added a manufacturing division in 1975. The company went public in 1983, trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Each year from 1989 through 1992, Clayton Homes was named on the Forbes list of the best small companies in America. Kevin Clayton, Jim Clayton's son, took over the company in 1999.\n\nIn 2002, Clayton earned a revenue of $1.2 billion. It was acquired by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in 2003 for $1.7 billion. Cerberus Capital Management also expressed interest in bidding for the company. The certificate of merger was filed in Delaware, and Clayton stock was removed from the New York Stock Exchange. In 2007, Clayton Homes' revenue was $3.66 billion.\n\nClayton Homes sold its land-lease communities business to Denver-based Yes Companies LLC in 2008. The deal involved 65 properties in 11 states. The i-house brand was introduced in May 2008 as a green, energy efficient home. By 2009, Clayton Homes had sold over 1.5 million homes. In 2009, Clayton launched the eHome as a more affordable version of the i-house.\n\nIn 2015, Clayton worked with Oak Ridge National Library and architectural firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill to produce a 3D printed house and car which share a single energy unit. Clayton Homes expanded into the traditional home building market with the acquisition of Georgia-based homebuilder Chafin Communities in 2015, and Tennessee-based Goodall Homes in 2016.\n\nClayton acquired River Birch Homes, based in Hackleburg, Alabama, in April 2016. The following month, Clayton hosted its first Birmingham-based home show. The show had 492 attendees and featured 27 homes from 27 facilities. That same month, Clayton announced that it would partner with nonprofit Next Step to build a modular duplex in Waco, Texas on a lot owned by NeighborWorks Waco in order to create affordable housing in the Greater Waco area.\n\nIn 2016, Clayton Homes was recognized as number 292 on Forbes' list of America's Best Employers. The company introduced a line of tiny homes during fall 2016 with the debut of its \"Low Country\" prototype in North Carolina. The designer series received media acclaim from \"USA Today\", \"The Post and Courier\", among others.\n\nOn July 10, 2017, Clayton Properties Group announced the purchase of home building operator, Birmingham, Alabama-based Harris Doyle Homes. With this purchase, Berkshire Hathaway's Clayton unit lands its fifth site-build purchase, showing emerging synergies among Warren Buffett's housing ecosystem of companies.\n\nBerkshire Hathaway’s Clayton Homes division, known for its factory-built houses, is expanding into the site-built, $250,000-and-under housing market, as reported on July 30, 2017. Since October 2015 Clayton has acquired homebuilders in Atlanta; Nashville, Tennessee; Kansas City; Denver; and, earlier this month, Birmingham, Alabama, and is building homes on-site at a rate of 2,500 to 3,000 a year.\n\nClayton Homes produces homes under the brand names of Buccaneer Homes, Cavalier Homes, Clayton Homes, Crest Homes, Giles Industries, Golden West Homes, Karsten Company, Marlette Homes, Norris Homes, Schult Homes, and Southern Energy Homes. Clayton Homes also owns retail brands Oakwood Homes, TruValue Homes and Luv Homes. In 2016, Clayton acquired G&I Homes, a family-run company based in New York.\n\nIn 2015, Clayton Homes released the Patriot home model and partnered with the Hope for the Warriors veterans assistance group. Clayton gave a check for $33,600 to the organization in January. Hope For The Warriors works with veterans from all branches of the military as well as post 9/11 active duty, National Guard, and reserve service members. In May 2016, Clayton presented a $100,000 check to the organization.\n\nClayton Homes was involved in a lawsuit in 2011 with FEMA after providing trailers as part of Hurricane Katrina relief which were found to contain formaldehyde. Afterwards, one of 12 prefab shelters provided to Haiti through the Clinton Foundation after the 2010 earthquake was found to have a formaldehyde level of 250 ppb, \"a very high level\" according to a scientist specializing in indoor pollutants at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.\n\nIn 2015, a news story claimed that Clayton Homes unfairly targets and exploits minority home buyers. Clayton Homes was further criticized for its alleged use of corrupt business practices. The company has denied discriminating against its customers or its workers. Warren Buffett, the CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, defended Clayton against predatory lending claims in an interview saying: \"We have 300,000 loans on the books and in the last 3 years I've not received one letter of complaint from anybody.\"\n"}
{"id": "619815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=619815", "title": "Cold reading (theatrical)", "text": "Cold reading (theatrical)\n\nTheatrical cold reading is reading aloud from a script or other text with little or no rehearsal, practice or study in advance. Sometimes also referred to as sight reading, it is a technique used by actors and other performers in theatre, television, and film performance fields. \n\nCold readings are common in performance classes, and furthermore are employed frequently in actor auditions to allow the producer or playwright to get a general idea of the actors' performing capabilities. They are also employed by playwrights who need to hear their play read aloud for the first time by actors, and as such they form an initial integral component of the collaborative creative theatrical process, which may or may not include the eventual production of the play itself. (Public performances of cold readings also serve as entertainment in their own right, particularly in the context of community theater, and less public readings can serve as creative incubators for more established playwright and theatrical talent during the course of play development.) Many actors and other performers and public speakers take classes and practice at length to improve the quality of their cold readings.\n\nCold reading can also be used in conjunction with improvisations to gauge a performer's ability to perform new works. A good dramatic cold reader is able to communicate with fluency and clarity and to project speech rhythms and rhymes well. The reader should also be able to bring out the intent, mood and characterization of a piece through appropriate articulation and body language.\n"}
{"id": "42579823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42579823", "title": "David Frank (media executive)", "text": "David Frank (media executive)\n\nDavid Frank (born 24 September 1958) is the CEO of Dial Square 86 and the chairman of The RightsXchange, which is an online marketplace for TV rights. He is the founder of RDF Media (which created international TV hits Faking it, Wife Swap and The Secret Millionaire) and former CEO of Zodiak Media SA (the super-indie whose portfolio of hits include The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, Totally Spies! and The Inbetweeners). He is also Chairman (and a shareholder) of Mint Digital, a digital product development studio in London and New York, and Objekt Films, a London-based film and video content creation company. Frank is a lifelong Arsenal fan.\n\nFrank was born in Nakuru, Kenya, the son of Joy (née Sollis) and Peter Frank. He was educated at Trinity College, Oxford, where he graduated with a BA in Jurisprudence. Frank is married to Isabelle (née Tuquet de Beauregard) Frank. They have three children: Oliver (b. 1985), Missie (b. 1987), and Bart (b. 1990) and live in London.\n\nPrior to running one of the world's biggest TV production companies Frank spent five years working in investment banking in London, first with Hill Samuel and latterly with Swiss Bank Corporation. Following his time in finance he decided to pursue a career in journalism, first in newspapers - Euromoney - and subsequently working for the BBC as a television reporter specialising in business and finance.\n\nAfter three years at the BBC, he left to set up his own independent production company, RDF Media, in 1993 with £35,000 start-up capital. His brother, Matthew Frank, joined RDF in 1994 to establish the company's distribution arm. Originally the company focused on the production of factual programmes but rapidly expanded into other genres such as entertainment, drama and children's, establishing itself as a leading force in TV production in the UK.\n\nWithin 10 years RDF was turning over around £32m a year. In 2000 the company established a successful presence in the US.\n\nIn 2002, Frank turned down the opportunity to become the Chief Executive at Channel Five (UK).\n\nBy 2005, revenues exceeded £40m and the company was floated on the London Stock Exchange (AIM) with a valuation of £49m.\n\nIn 2006, RDF won its third 'Best Independent Production Company' award at the annual Broadcast Awards, adding to wins in 2002 and 2004. It was the first and, as of 2016, the only company to have won the award three times.\n\nIn July 2007, RDF became embroiled in a controversy concerning a documentary series the company was making about the Queen. The incident, which became known as Queengate, centred on manipulation of footage in a promotional tape for the series which was shown to journalists at a BBC One press event purporting to show the Queen storming out of a photoshoot with Annie Liebowitz. The affair led to the resignations of RDF Director of Programmes Stephen Lambert and BBC One Controller Peter Fincham.\n\nThe controversy resulted in a sharp fall in the RDF share price on AIM. In 2009, with revenues now of approximately £150m and in response to the fall in the share price, Frank led a management buy-out of the company's shares supported by Dutch private equity firm Dasym Investment Strategies (formerly Cyrte Investments).\n\nIn July 2010, RDF Media was sold to Zodiak Entertainment, for a reported £150m, and Frank was appointed the CEO of the enlarged group, now renamed Zodiak Media.\n\nThe acquisition of RDF Media, in 2010, created a £500m \"super-indie\" global production giant, Zodiak Media. Zodiak Media is an independent media company that produces entertainment, factual, drama and kids' programming, with 45 companies operating in 17 countries and $800 million in annual revenues. It is headquartered in Paris and with other key offices in London, Los Angeles, Milan, Stockholm and Moscow. It is majority-owned by Italian conglomerate De Agostini and operates across the world.\n\nFollowing his appointment as CEO in July 2010, Frank rebranded Zodiak Entertainment as Zodiak Media and organised the group along geographical divisions to replace the acquired group brands (Marathon Media Group, Magnolia, Zodiak Entertainment and RDF Media). He launched a “creativity and innovation unit” at the centre of the group to look for shows and formats with the best chance of becoming international hits. In 2011 Zodiak acquired UK comedy producer Bwark Productions (makers of hit TV series and movie The Inbetweeners). Under Frank, the group also made its first scripted series for a US broadcaster (Being Human for SyFy Channel). Frank also oversaw a $267m refinancing of the group's debt through a deal with a syndicate of international banks.\n\nFrank informed majority owner De Agostini several months prior to his departure of his intent to leave Zodiak at the end of 2013.\n\nDuring his two decades in TV, Frank gained a reputation as an executive who, although driven by business, was capable of creating a very enjoyable working environment.\n\nFrank is the CEO of Dial Square 86, which he founded after leaving Zodiak Media. The company launched in 2014.\n\nIn June 2015, Frank announced the creation of The RightsXchange (TRX), an online marketplace for TV rights. David Frank remains CEO of Dial Square 86, the parent company of the new venture, and is also chairman of TRX.\n\nIn August 2016, TRX announced that it had received co-investment from Sky and Channel 4, marking the first time that the two companies had jointly invested in a start up.\n"}
{"id": "31260737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31260737", "title": "Digital Humanities Quarterly", "text": "Digital Humanities Quarterly\n\nDigital Humanities Quarterly is a peer-reviewed open-access academic journal covering all aspects of digital media in the humanities. The journal is also a community experiment in journal publication.\n\nThe journal is funded and published by the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations and its editor-in-chief is Julia Flanders.\n\n\"Digital Humanities Quarterly\" has been noted among the \"few interesting attempts to peer review born-digital scholarship.\" Having emerged from a desire to disseminate digital humanities practices to the wider arts and humanities community and beyond, the journal is committed to open access and open standards to deliver journal content, publishing under a Creative Commons license. It develops translation services and multilingual reviews in keeping with the international character of the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations.\n\nThe journal aims to heighten the visibility and acceptance of digital humanities with reviews that are modeled on traditional book reviews but focus on digital projects, providing assessments of \"software tools, sites, other kinds of innovations that need the same kind of critical scrutiny and benefit from the same kind of contextualizing review that a traditional book review offers.\"\n"}
{"id": "1693665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1693665", "title": "Epistemologia", "text": "Epistemologia\n\nEpistemologia is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal of philosophy. It is focused on analytical philosophy, publishing articles that deal with philosophy of science, epistemology, logic, philosophy of language, and philosophy of mind. It publishes articles in English and Italian. In 2015 it was reported that the journal had been hijacked.\n"}
{"id": "15800667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15800667", "title": "Erotemata", "text": "Erotemata\n\nThe Erotemata are the first printed basic Greek grammar in use in Western Europe, written by Manuel Chrysoloras who was a pioneer is spreading Greek literature in Western Europe. \n\nChrysoloras' \"Erotemata\" were first published almost certainly in 1471 in Venice by Adam de Ambergau. It can be considered the first Greek book ever printed, since it bears a Greek title-page and the text contains large parts in Greek. It enjoyed immediate and considerable success in Italy, but also among later leading humanists, being studied by Thomas Linacre at Oxford and by Desiderius Erasmus at Cambridge.\n"}
{"id": "3245815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3245815", "title": "Gardiner's sign list", "text": "Gardiner's sign list\n\nGardiner's Sign List is a list of common Egyptian hieroglyphs compiled by Sir Alan Gardiner. It is considered a standard reference in the study of Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs.\n\nGardiner lists only the common forms of Egyptian hieroglyphs, but he includes extensive subcategories, and also both vertical and horizontal forms for many hieroglyphs. He includes size-variation forms to aid with the reading of hieroglyphs in running blocks of text. In contrast, for example, the Budge Reference has about 1000 hieroglyphs listed in 50 pages, but with no size variations.\n\nGardiner does not cross-index signs; once put on the list, other significant uses may be overlooked. One example of this is G16, nbtỉ, the ideogram for \"The Two Ladies\", goddesses Wadjet as the cobra and Nekhbet as the white vulture. These are the protective and patron goddesses of the separate Egyptian kingdoms that joined into Ancient Egypt, who were both then displayed on the uraeus of Wadjet when the unification occurred and afterward considered jointly to be the protectors of Egypt and the pharaohs. This ideogram is listed only on the bird list as G16, and overlooked on the deity list and the reptile list.\n\nOther subcategories included by Gardiner are abbreviations and personalized forms, and also a complete subset, used on papyrus, specifically for the Book of the Dead.\n\n56 signs in Gardiner (1957:242–247), with A59 \"man threatening with stick\" inserted after A25 \"man striking with left hand hanging behind back\", and two variants A14* \"blood interpreted as ax\" of A14 \"man with blood streaming from his head\" and A17* \"child sitting with arms hanging down\" of A17 \"child sitting with hand to mouth\".\n\n7 signs in Gardiner (1957:448).\n\n11 signs in Gardiner (1957:448f.) with the addition of five 19th Dynasty signs, C12 Amun, C17 Mont, C18 Tjanen, C19 and C20 Ptah.\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 63\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 34\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 52\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 54\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 8\n15 signs in Gardiner (1957:475f).\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 7\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 7\n44 signs in Gardiner (1957:478–484).\n\n42 signs in Gardiner (1957:485–492).\nN3 is an Old Kingdom variant of N2.\nN11 \"moon\" has vertical (\"increscent\" and \"decrescent\") variants, N12 is a 19th-Dynasty variant of N11.\n\n51 signs (with variants, U+13250–1329A).\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 11\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 7\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 25\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 45\n\n\"Expected quantity:\" 35\n\n41 signs.\n40 signs (38 in Gardiner 1957). \nV39 is the \"Tyet\" or \"Knot of Isis\".\nV40 is the numeral 10 in dates.\n\n25 signs.\n\n8 signs.\n8 signs.\n11 signs.\n\n31 signs in Gardiner (1957).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12502767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12502767", "title": "German Protestant Institute", "text": "German Protestant Institute\n\nThe German Protestant Institute of Archaeology (GPIA), Research Unit of the German Archaeological Institute, founded in 1900 is one of the most important biblical archaeological institutes in the Near East. Its German name is \"Deutsches Evangelisches Institut für Altertumswissenschaft des Heiligen Landes\".\n\nThe German Protestant Institute of Archaeology, Research Unit of the German Archaeological Institute, operates in two locations – Jerusalem and Amman. Its high reputation as cultural institution, help desk, and meeting place for European scholars makes it a sought-after partner for cooperation between German and international organizations and projects. The GPIA is a foundation administered by the German Protestant Church. At the same time, it serves as a research unit of the German Archaeological Institute (DAI). They cooperate in several archaeological projects.\n\nDirector-General: Professor Dr. Dr. Dr. h.c. Dieter Vieweger\nAddress: Auguste-Victoria-Compound, P.O.Box 18 463, Jerusalem 91184\n- Archaeological library, archaeological museum\n\nDirector: Dr. Jutta Häser\nAddress: P.O.Box 183, Amman 11118, Jordan\n- Archaeological library, archaeological collection\n\nThe mission of the institute was clearly stated in its founding charter: the exploration of the Holy Land and its diverse past, cultures and religions. The knowledge acquired was meant to be available to, and discussed by, both experts and the general public. In light of this founding mission, the institute undertakes research on the history and culture of the region. To this end, the institute conducts its own excavations and supports other German research projects.\n\nThe institute is also committed to disseminating the results of research, especially in the areas of archaeology, cultural studies, theology and the Church. For this purpose, the institute maintains a research library, issues its own archaeological journal and organises meetings, lecture series and exhibitions. Especially important is the Course Programme for theologians, which was founded over 100 years ago by the first director, Gustaf Dalman. The institute also tries to make archaeological knowledge available to the public by offering guided tours of Jerusalem and the surrounding area.\n\nThe GPIA fosters close relations with the cultural institutions in the host countries and supports scientific research without any political or religious borders on both sides of the river Jordan.\n\nTogether with the Biblical Archaeological Institute in Wuppertal, the GPIA conducts the Gadara Region Project (2001–2020) in the Wadi al-'Arab, south of Umm Qais. The central archaeological site of the Wadi al-'Arab is the Tall Zira'a.\nThere is hardly an area of Palestine where its history can be studied in such a concentrated manner as in the Wadi al-'Arab. This deep valley, which lies roughly five kilometres south-west of the ancient Decapolis city of Gadara (today Umm Qais), is, in many ways, an archaeological bonanza due to the variety in what it has to offer. A number of springs, fertile soils and a moderate climate all provide for excellent living conditions, and the most imposing hill in the valley, Tall Zira'a, possesses its own artesian spring and the very best potential for settlement.\n\nIn addition, an important trade route ran through the wadi which once linked Egypt with Mesopotamia. The economic success and industriousness of the wadi's inhabitants have left plenty of traces over the millennia. Over one hundred sites mark out the distinguished history of human settlement in the region from the advent of sedentism to the Islamic period. Settlements, canals, water mills, cisterns, oil presses, wine presses, watch towers, graves and, above all, Tall Zira'a with its over 5000 years of settlement activity.\n\nThe archaeological park opened in November 2012 \"The Times\", located below the nave of the Church of the Redeemer was co-developed by German Protestant Institute (GPIA) and offers the possibility to commit more than 2000 years of history of the city of Jerusalem by walking through it.\n\nThe archaeological excavations, conducted by Conrad Schick 1893 und Ute Wagner-Lux (the former director of GPIA) respectively Karl Vriezen 1970–1974, have been prepared by the German Protestant Institute in the Holy Land in 2009–2012 to present visitors the different stages of development and building of Jerusalem.\n\n\nThe GPIA was founded on June 19, 1900, by the Deutsche Evangelische Kirchenkonferenz in Eisenach in order to \"maintain, further and regulate the relations between the holy places of biblical history, on the one hand, and between the scientific inquiry and the interests of the Christian faith of the Protestant Church, on the other, in the fields of biblical and ecclesiastical archaeology.\"\n\nGustaf Dalman – then Professor of Old Testament and Judaic Studies at the University of Leipzig – was appointed first director and built up the Jerusalem institute. The changed situation after the Six-Day War in June 1967 necessitated the establishment of the Amman institute. In 1982, the institute in Jerusalem moved to new buildings at the Auguste-Victoria-Compound on the Mount of Olives.\n\n"}
{"id": "12012887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12012887", "title": "Habeas corpus petitions of Guantanamo Bay detainees", "text": "Habeas corpus petitions of Guantanamo Bay detainees\n\nThe nature of international human rights law has been seemingly altered by Americans since the attacks on New York City and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001. The Guantanamo Bay detention camp is one example of recent developments that seem to disregard long standing human rights. The United States of America (USA) has pursued a 'seemingly deliberate strategy' to put suspected terrorists outside the reach of habeas corpus protections. Naval Station Guantanamo Bay serves as the location for a United States military prison in Cuba designed for the detention of non-citizens suspected of terrorist activity. At the time of its creation President Bush stated that its purpose was to respond to serious war crimes, primarily 'a new way to deal with terrorists'. The first camp was set up 3 months after the attacks on the twin towers and since then a human rights debate has begun over the legality of denying detainees the right to petition habeas corpus.\n\nThe detainees at the United States Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba have had over 200 writs of habeas corpus submitted on their behalf.\n\nHabeas corpus is sometimes called \"The Great Writ\". It is a legal instrument first guaranteed following the signing of the Magna Carta. Its literal meaning is \"show the body\". Its purpose is to prevent the state from holding prisoners in extrajudicial detention. A writ of habeas corpus essentially challenges the legality of the detention. When a writ of habeas corpus is filed with a court in countries which inherit elements of their judicial system from the English system of Justice the state has to show that there is a legal basis for the captive's detention—usually that they are suspected of having broken a law. The principle of habeas corpus is codified in many humanitarian law treaties and national legislation – the right of fair trial and detainment is considered a basic human right.\nThe principle of habeas corpus is codified in the US Constitution in article I(9)(2), commonly known as the 'Suspension Clause'. This provides that 'the privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it'.\n\nReports from Guantanamo Bay claim the detainees suffer from 'extraordinary psychological and physical abuses'. Psychological abuses include solitary confinement for long periods, sleep deprivation and religious abuse. Physical abuse is also used regularly as punishment, reportedly disproportionate for the apparent misconduct. Sami Al-Laithi, a professor at Kabul University who was taken into US custody in Guantanamo has been found to never have been hostile towards US. He was a healthy man when he was first captured by US forces but is now confined to a wheelchair after two vertebrae were broken in vicious beatings in the camp. Many of these detainees claim that they have been wrongfully detained and deny any involvement in hostile activity towards the USA, or any involvement with the Taliban or Al Qaeda at all. Taking into account the inhumane conditions of the camp it is not surprising that Guantanamo detainees have sought protection from the principles of habeas corpus.\n\nThe issue is concerned with the jurisdiction of the US Courts to issue the writ of habeas corpus in respect to the detention of aliens which are held outside of the US. Six weeks after the events of September 11 Bush granted the USA Patriot Act which restricted the right of habeas corpus to resident aliens, this was done to allow suspected terrorists to be held without legal counsel or trial and avoid the protection of habeas corpus. The third Geneva Convention considers a fair trial so essential to prisoner rights that 'willfully depriving a prisoner of war of the rights of a fair and regular trial is deemed a grave brave of the convention and, consequentially, a war crime'.\n\nIn early 2002 the first major petition for a writ of habeas corpus regarding Guantanamo detainees was filed. This was denied on the foundation that U.S courts lacked jurisdiction over the camp and its prisoners; Guantanamo Bay is located in Cuba, outside of the territory of the USA, and the writ of habeas corpus is 'not available to aliens outside the sovereign territory of the USA'. The lease of Guantanamo Bay to the US on the part of Cuba reads 'while on one hand the US recognises the continuance of the ultimate sovereignty of the Republic of Cuba. ... on the other hand the Republic of Cuba consents that ... the USA shall exercise complete jurisdiction and control over and within said area'. Early courts claimed that Guantanamo does not technically belong to USA so habeas corpus could not apply. The Combatant Status Review Tribunals (CSRT) was created as an outcome from early petitions for habeas corpus. Its role was to establish whether or not detainees are actually enemy combatants.\n\nHowever, the most recent case law development has been in the US Supreme Court case \"Boumediene v. Bush\" where it was established Guantanamo detainees have a right to habeas corpus and are able to bring their petitions to U.S courts. It also held that the Guantanamo detainees were entitled to the legal protections of the US Constitution and from then on, the Combatant Status Review Tribunal would be inadequate. The result of this case has seen many habeas corpus cases refiled.\n\nThe Geneva Conventions, of which there are four, are considered universal treaties in international law. They created the idea of International humanitarian law and codify customary international law regarding laws in wartime. By signing parties agreed to criminalise any breaches in their own domestic courts, U.S recognised this when they enacted their own War Crimes Act. However the declaration made by Bush in 2002 had the effect of 'exempting all alleged members of Al Qaeda from the protections of the Geneva conventions'.\n\nThe abuse of international human rights law lies in the treatment of detainees, the absence of public scrutiny, judicial review and government accountability. The U.S government deliberately chose Guantanamo Bay as the site for detaining foreign citizens as they believed it would be exempt from any obligations they held under the Geneva Convention. Considering detainees as detainees outside the traditional definition of prisoners also denies the protections of the Geneva Convention. Proof of these deliberate decisions is found in the legal memoranda where President Bush actively enquired about how far they could legally go.\n\nThe scope of international human rights has been discussed in the habeas corpus cases from Guantanamo Bay. Firstly, it should be noted that habeas corpus is a human right of utmost importance, recognised through humanitarian law, for 'protecting one's right to physical liberty'. It has been suggested that there may almost be universal acceptance that the protections of habeas corpus are 'non-derogable'.\n\nHabeas corpus exists outside the Geneva Convention; it is found in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Article 9; Article 9 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; Article 5 of the European Convention of Human Rights; and, in the American Convention on Human Rights, Article 7. The purpose of the European Convention on Human Rights is to create enforceable rights that States are obliged to respect. Limiting this Convention in order to conduct security operations would undermine the system.\n\nThe Center for Constitutional Rights took a lead role in helping to organize the activities of lawyers willing to offer their services, pro bono, to the Guantanamo detainees.\n\nSubmitting writs of habeas corpus was made more difficult at first, because part of the Bush detainee policy was to keep the identity of the Guantanamo captives a secret. A writ has to be submitted by a \"next friend\". Some of the detainees had family who would have authorized American lawyers to submit writs on their behalf, but they had no way of contacting them. Some of the detainees and their relatives are totally illiterate. Other detainees' families had no idea where they were, had no idea that they were in Guantanamo. Some of the detainees reported that they were punished for asking for legal assistance.\n\nIn the summer of 2004 the United States Supreme Court ruled on the habeas corpus submission \"Rasul v. Bush\", determining that the court had jurisdiction over Guantanamo, and that detainees had a right to an impartial tribunal to challenge their detention under habeas corpus. It was a landmark decision in detainee rights. \"Rasul v Bush\" challenged an earlier precedent set in \"Johnson v. Eisentrager\". \"Rasul\" concluded that the U.S, as a lessee, has 'extensive proprietary rights over Guantanamo Bay' that were exclusively granted in the 1903 lease. This lease gave U.S operational sovereignty over the base and brought it within the Supreme Court's jurisdiction. A related decision was \"Hamdi v. Rumsfeld\" (2004), which ruled that United States citizens detained as suspected enemy combatants had the right to habeas corpus challenge of their detention.\n\nIn response to \"Rasul v Bush\", the U.S Government passed the Detainee Treatment Act 2005 in an attempt to prevent aliens for petitioning for habeas corpus in American courts. Section 1005(e) states that \"[N]o court, justice, or Judge shall have jurisdiction to hear or consider an application for a writ of habeas corpus filed by or on behalf of an alien detained at the Department of Defense at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba'.\n\nThe Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 prohibited US military and intelligence personnel from treating detainees in ways inconsistent with Armed Forces regulations. Additionally, the act did not close off the habeas corpus submission that were already in the works.\n\nIn \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" (2006), the Supreme Court ruled that the Bush Presidency lacked the Constitutional authority to create the Guantanamo military commissions as a system separate from the existing federal and military justice systems, and ruled that the CSRTs and military commissions were unconstitutional. It said that only Congress could authorize such a system. They confirmed in their judgement the unlawfulness of the US Government in the use of torture, cruel and humiliating treatment, and international law should limit the power of the President.\n\n\"Hamdam v Rumsfeld\" has been acknowledged as a milestone case for Guantanamo detainees; Walter Dellinger even claimed that 'Hamdam is simply the most important decision on Presidential power and the rule of law. Ever'. It followed the passing of the Detainee Treatment Act and gave the Supreme Court an 'early opportunity to assess the nature and extent of the jurisdiction-stripping measure'. The Supreme Court held that the amendment by the new legislation would not apply to detainees who had cases already waiting to be reviewed.\n\nOnce more in response to a judicial decision, Congress passed the Military Commission Act of 2006 swiftly after \"Hamdan v Rumsfeld\". The new section, under section 7, attempted to apply the Detainee Treatment Act to detainees with cases pending. This was an attempt by political branch of government to reinforce their opinion that the 'federal courts should have as little to do with Guantanamo Bay detainees as possible'.\n\nOn June 29, 2007 the Supreme Court agreed to hear outstanding habeas corpus, opening up the possibility that they might overturn some or all of the Military Commissions Act.\n\nOn June 12, 2008 the United States Supreme Court ruled, in Boumediene v. Bush, that the Guantanamo detainees were entitled to the protection of the United States Constitution.\nJustice Anthony Kennedy, writing for the majority, described the CSR Tribunals as \"inadequate\", and wrote:\n\nMore than 200 detainees have had habeas petitions files on their behalf.\n\nSenators Patrick Leahy and Arlen Specter have proposed Habeas Corpus Restoration Act of 2007, to restore access to habeas corpus to the Guantanamo detainees.\nDebate began on the bill on September 17, 2007. It has been attached, as an amendment, to a Defense bill.\n\nThe decision in \"Boumediene v. Bush\" in 2008 has had huge implications on America's war on terror. It was acknowledged that the Military Commissions Act was retaliation to the decision in Hamdan. \"Boumediene\" ruled that Guantanamo detainees were able to bring about a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in U.S courts and established that the judicial branch of government has the final say on unlawful detentions, rather than the Executive branch as the Bush regime had been implementing.\n\nJustice Kennedy, in delivering the majority opinion, held that it was within the U.S court's jurisdiction to apply a writ of habeas corpus to aliens in Guantanamo bay as the fundamental rights of the U.S Constitution should be extended to Guantanamo detainees. Since \"Boumediene\", Bush confirmed that his administration would look into the decision to see if any additional legislation would be 'appropriate' in terms of the protection of American people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11394057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11394057", "title": "Hera Farnese", "text": "Hera Farnese\n\nThe Hera Farnese is a type of sculpture of Hera.\n\nIts main example is a 63 cm high Roman marble copy of the 1st century AD of a Greek original of the second half of the 5th century BC, now in the Naples National Archaeological Museum. It was part of a colossal acrolithic statue, and shows the goddess with a central parting and wearing a diadem. It was named Hera by the first archaeologists to see it, due to its severe style and unsmiling expression, and they also interpreted these features as making it a Roman copy of an original by Polycleitus.\n\nAs part of the Farnese collection it was brought to Naples in 1844 by German archaeologist Heinrich von Brunn\n\nSee also giant statue \"Hera Ludovisi\" (portrait of Antonia Minor) in Palazzo Altemps, Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "1139833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1139833", "title": "History of the Great War", "text": "History of the Great War\n\nThe History of the Great War Based on Official Documents by Direction of the Committee of Imperial Defence (abbreviated to History of the Great War or British Official History) is a series of concerning the war effort of the British state during the First World War. It was produced by the Historical Section of the Committee of Imperial Defence from 1915 to 1949; after 1919 Brigadier-General Sir James Edmonds was Director. Edmonds wrote many of the army volumes and influenced the choice of historians for the navy, air force, medical and veterinary volumes. Work had begun on the series in 1915 and in 1920, the first volumes of \"Naval Operations\" and \"Seaborne Trade\", were published. The first \"army\" publication, \"Military Operations: France and Belgium 1914\" Part I and a separate map case were published in 1922 and the final volume, \"The Occupation of Constantinople\" was published in 2010.\n\nThe \"History of the Great War\" Military Operations volumes were originally intended as a technical history for military staff. Single-volume popular histories of military operations and naval operations written by civilian writers, were to be produced for the general public but Sir John Fortescue was dismissed for slow work on the military volume and his draft was not published. Edmonds preferred to appoint half-pay and retired officers, who were cheaper than civilian writers and wrote that occasionally the \"'War House' foisted elderly officers on him, because they were not going to be promoted or offered employment but was afraid to tell them so\".\n\nIn the 1987 introduction to \"Operations in Persia 1914–1919\", G. M. Bayliss wrote that the guides issued by Her Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO) were incomplete. \"Sectional List number 60\" of 1976 omitted the \"Gallipoli\" volumes but contained \"The Blockade of the Central Empires\" (1937), that had been \"Confidential\" and retained \"For Official Use Only\" until 1961. The twelve volume \"History of the Ministry of Munitions\", the \"Occupation of the Rhineland\" (1929) and \"Operations in Persia 1914–1919\" (1929) were included. The Imperial War Museum Department of Printed Books and the Battery Press republished the official history in the 1990s with black and white maps. The Department of Printed Books and the Naval and Military Press republished the set in paperback with colour maps in the 2000s and on DVD-ROM in the 2010s.\n\nThe modern form of official military history began in the mid-nineteenth century with reports written as guides for later officers. The histories were detailed descriptions of events, were not easy reading for a lay audience and left judgements to the discretion of a mainly professional readership. After the First World War, the New Zealand government decided that its official histories should be written for the public, since it had fought in the war or supported the war effort. After the Second World War, the low academic standard of military education, especially in historical analysis, led to a view that professionally trained historians should write official histories, applying their academic training to explain why as well as describe what. Since many of the academics had participated in the war, they could be expected to have experience of military service and knowledge of the war to inform their writing. The contemporary view is that official history should incorporate the three points of view, containing the detailed description needed for works of military instruction but also to be suitable for a general readership and to show how participants tried to solve problems, drawing explicit lessons from their successes and failures.\n\nNone of the points of view to be served by the production of official history is immune to error, because work by a military historian could be fraudulent, distorting the record for personal or political reasons. Populist history can dilute the story to the point of worthlessness and civilian academics can be prone to select facts and interpretations according to their ideals, ideology and preconceived ideas. Military histories written as textbooks might be expected to have a basis in truth, necessary to teach useful lessons to students and the British \"Report of the Committee on the Lessons of the Great War\" (Kirk Report, 1931) drew on the published volumes of the British official history and conclusions in the report were incorporated into a new edition of \"Field Service Regulations\". Operations might again be conducted in Iraq and Iran and official history volumes were produced against the objections of the Foreign Office. Military histories concentrated on the doings of national contingents, rarely referring to those of allied and opposing armies; comparative analysis is absent and national bias, due to ulterior motives like the temptation to myth make, can also be found. The Australian \"Official History of Australia in the War of 1914–1918\" edited by Charles Bean contains exaggerations of the significance of the Australian contribution, the prowess of Australian soldiers and disparagements of soldiers from Britain and its allies.\n\nAustralian failures and casualties are sometimes blamed on British higher commanders, when high-ranking Australian officers could justly be criticised. The post-war Royal Air Force (RAF), was at risk of abolition and needed a function that could not be replicated by the army or navy, to justify its existence. The parts of \"The War in the Air\" (1922–1937) written by H. A. Jones gave undue emphasis to strategic bombing, unbalancing the work. Embarrassing events can be disguised by underwriting and in the French official history \"Histoire de La Grande Guerre\", the French Army Mutinies of 1917 were passed over in a few paragraphs in \"Les Armées Françaises dans la Grande Guerre\", despite occurring in of the French Army. Many of the historians, editors and contributors to the \"History of the Great War\" (1915–1949) had been senior officers during the war, which had the advantage of bringing first-hand knowledge of events and experience of military art to the work but this risked allowing loyalty and an understandable desire to protect reputations leading to unfair blaming, particularly on outsiders.\n\nThe narrative of the Battle of Jutland (1916) is described in Volume III of the Royal Navy history \"Naval Operations\" (1923). The draft text was revised at the request of some serving officers present at the battle, to remove critical remarks about them. Many of the officers were retired or dead, when a revised edition was published in 1940 but the excised passages were not restored. The British Army \"Military Operations...\" volumes have been criticised for dishonesty, in not blaming GHQ for the extent of British casualties. The authors have been accused of exculpating Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig, commander of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) from December 1915 to the end of the war, by default. In 2011, Neil Wells wrote that as the history is a description of events, rather than an analytical work with criticism and conclusions, Haig and other commanders escape explicit blame for failures, yet the reader is left free to form conclusions.\n\nIn 1906, official histories were being written by three departments at the War Office and one in the Admiralty. Lord Esher chairman of the Committee of Imperial Defence, suggested that a subcommittee be established as the Historical Section, to centralise the collection of army and navy archives, as a repository of the lessons of war for strategists. Esher thought that the lessons of the South African War (11 October 1899 – 31 May 1902) could not be shown unless the naval, military and political aspects of the war were treated as one. In January 1907, the subcommittee was established with Sir George Clarke as chairman, charged with the completion of an official history of the Boer War. The original account was begun by Colonel G. F. R. Henderson (1854–1903), before ill health forced him to retire. Before he died, Henderson had completed a narrative up to the beginning of the war but it was not published. A later version, (\"History of the war in South Africa\" 1899–1902, four volumes, 1906–1910) by Major-General J. F. Maurice reached publication but had needed a large number of assistants, which increased the price of the book; it was favourably received but did not sell well.\n\nThe Historical Section was busy on a history of the Russo-Japanese War (8 February 1904 – 5 September 1905) in August 1914 but work was suspended on the outbreak of the First World War. The section began to collect material being returned from France and Lieutenant-Colonel E. Y. Daniel was appointed as a full-time secretary. Experience of writing the history of the South African War, showed that delay made the task impossible and that the collection of material for the work should begin at once. In May 1915, Captain C. T. Atkinson was sent to France to collect unit diaries. Atkinson reported that the diaries were inadequate, because of the difficulty of writing them during events like the Great Retreat of 1914, when few were kept and that these had big gaps. Although the diaries would not show \"why\" events occurred, Atkinson recommended that they should be indexed and grouped by unit, subject and chronology and that later they could be scrutinised to identify discrepancies caused by the organisation of the material.\n\nA formal decision to write an official history was not taken until a Cabinet meeting on 26 August 1915, when Maurice Hankey (1 April 1877 – 26 January 1963) the Secretary of the Committee of Imperial Defence and of the War Council, advocated a series of histories to provide\n\nField Marshal Herbert Kitchener (24 June 1850 – 5 June 1916) the Secretary of State for War wanted work begun on a single-volume popular history, to be published soon after the war. This would maintain public interest in the main series and put the case of the government, at the same time as accounts by participants and popular authors. The Treasury objected over the cost but Hankey considered that it would be a work of education and reference, not a commercial proposition and that if scientific works were judged only on commercial criteria, research would be abolished.\n\nThe Treasury gave way and agreed to finance an official history series and popular single-volume works, written by civilian authors to ensure public appeal. Sir Julian Corbett (12 November 1854 – 21 September 1922) was appointed to write the navy volume and Sir John Fortescue (28 December 1859 – 22 October 1933) was chosen for the army volume. Work on the military histories was slow and in 1917, Daniel reported that Atkinson and an assistant had examined only diaries and Fortescue had only reached as far as November 1914. The war precluded a big increase in manpower and for the Fortescue volume to be adequate, Daniel reported that confidential staff correspondence would be needed. With the huge increase in the size of the British army, it would only be practical to use some unit diaries and care would be needed to avoid skewing the selection. In March 1919, Winston Churchill (30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965) received a pre-publication copy of the Corbett popular history of the navy and objected to certain passages. Churchill wanted official records to be published with the volume so that the public could judge for themselves. Hankey claimed that Churchill's objections made the publication of an official history series questionable, since they would inevitably reflect on leaders, many of whom remained in public life.\nHankey wrote that an official history should \"not\" be written, because it would attract parliamentary and public criticism, the length of time taken to publish would mean that each volume would be examined and that the history would be produced at a loss. The experience of producing the navy volume also showed that each publication would\n\nbut the objections were not enough to cancel the project, given the benefits of publication. The public knew little of the early stages of the war and it had a right to benefit from the state monopoly on official information, presented in a readable manner. An official history would also serve to educate professional officers, that mattered more than cost and that criticism was unavoidable. Publication would refute unofficial histories that blamed the government or individual officers and for this, the histories could not evade controversy or be inoffensive to individual sensibilities. The Cabinet agreed for publication to continue, subject to vetting by the War Office and the Cabinet, with the proviso that the decision might be reversed if the Corbett volume was badly received; the volume was published in 1920, to extremely good press reviews. Work on the military histories in 1919 was hampered by paucity of resources and bad management, until Brigadier-General J. E. Edmonds (25 December 1861 – 2 August 1956), who had joined the Historical Section in February 1919, was appointed Director on 1 April. Edmonds found documents in un-catalogued bundles on the floor, from which historians had abstracted items and not replaced them.\n\nThe Fortescue volume was to have covered the war but he wrote so slowly, that it was decided to end his volume at May 1915 and only cover France. Edmonds also came to doubt the quality of the work, judging Fortescue to be ignorant of the workings of a contemporary army, apparently being behind the times; Fortescue had excluded dates and times and used obsolete language. Fortescue agreed to revise his draft but then took no notice, his second draft being confused, containing nothing about the general situation and hardly referring to the Germans. Senior officers were ridiculed, the government blamed for not stopping the war and the French effort was \"slurred over in less than one typewritten page\". Edmonds blamed Fortescue for lacking interest, lethargy and ignoring the records made available, bungling the chance to write an exciting story of the BEF, by delivering a patchwork of unit diaries. At the end of the year, Edmonds decided to rewrite the work because of Fortescue's prevarication and \"grossly inaccurate and misleading\" writing; Fortescue was sacked and Edmonds even wanted him to be made to pay back his salary. After the unfortunate experience with Fortescue, Edmonds decided that an account must be enhanced by statements, private records of officers and by German material, to counter \"garbled\" accounts by the likes of Arthur Conan Doyle and John Buchan. Soundings with publishers and authors convinced Edmonds, that a work based on dispatches would fail to engage the public. An educational work needed a foundation on which to base teaching, conclusions which were similar to those of Hankey, that a work must be readable enough for the public to buy, be a credible educational work for the military student and rebut inaccurate commercial accounts by civilian authors.\n\nThe cost of producing the official history was raised in the House of Commons on 13 June 1922, during a proposal to farm out the work to private enterprise. Some MPs claimed to have heard nothing of the \"History... \" despite five volumes having been published to a very good press. Daniel was called before H. A. L. Fisher, the President of the Board of Education and pointed out that working on the \"History...\" would never pay a living wage and that for educational reasons the government must foot the bill, because of the exceptional value of the work. He calculated that the cost of the \"History...\" from 1916 to 1922 was about £42,000, the military histories costing £16,800 and the naval works £11,800, while the annual cost of producing Hansard was £44,000. Daniel also showed that the cost of the war from 3 August 1914 to 31 March 1920 was £11,196,927,000 or £3,500 per minute, a vast cost against which, the price of making the experience available for education was about four minutes of war expenditure per year for the Historical Section. The next meeting of the Historical Section subcommittee on 31 July 1922 endorsed the continuation of the project.\n\nFinance remained the dominant influence on the production of the volumes, rather than literary or academic concerns about the work of the Historical Section. The subcommittee met six times in 1923 and on 9 August, Hankey managed to obtain a permanent Cabinet Subcommittee of Control of the Official Histories, chaired by the President of the Board of Education and meeting annually. There were twelve meetings between 1924 and 1946, with representatives from the Treasury, War Office, Admiralty, Air Ministry and the Secretary to the Committee of Imperial Defence. Daniel and Edmonds usually attended; other official historians and members of the Colonial and India offices were present for particular discussions; where the committee failed to agree, a ruling was made by the Cabinet. Edmonds submitted an annual report, other historians added summaries of their work, progress reports, staff and personnel matters and publications by foreign official historians. Meetings considered costs and the progress of publication, the number of volumes, their scope and size. On rare occasions the committee made a ruling on content, after complaints by a department; in 1928, the War Office strenuously objected to some of the content of the first Gallipoli volume by C. F. Aspinall-Oglander.\n\nMoney determined the speed of publication, the size and number of volumes and the choice of author, Edmonds preferring to employ officers on half-pay or retired on £500 per year, about half the price of a civilian author; officers were usually willing to work longer hours and do unpaid work. The Treasury managed to obtain the removal of Lieutenant-General Launcelot Kiggell, former Chief of the General Staff of the British Armies in France, late 1915 to early 1918, from 1918 Part I for reasons of cost. In 1923, it had been decided to prepare the volume out of sequence, because of the importance of the failure of the German Spring Offensive (21 March – 18 July) but by 1926, Kiggell had failed to prepare even a draft narrative for circulation to participants and thought that it would take him another four years. At the Committee for Control meeting in January 1926, the Treasury recommended Kiggell's removal and Edmonds agreed, because his work was \"lacking in colour and atmosphere\".\n\nThe price of the early volumes was set at 21 Shillings (21s) and another 21s for accompanying map cases but this was considered too costly for professional officers. In 1923, the price was cut to 12s 6d but this left no surplus for advertising and no incentive for booksellers to display them prominently; publishers also set a maximum number of pages per volume, a constraint that led the Committee for Control in 1924 to advise a price increase to 15s. In March 1933, Edmonds showed copies of French, German and Austrian histories to demonstrate their \"elaborate and voluminous\" nature. The comprehensive nature of the project was also determined by finance and proposals made by government departments from 1922 to 1939, for histories beyond the Western Front. In 1931, the War Office asked for a volume on the East African Campaign, because of lessons offered by a campaign in such a climate, at such a distance from Britain. The Treasury refused and suggested that the Colonial Office pay, as it had done for the West African volume. East Africa Part I was eventually published in 1941 with Colonial Office money. At the same meeting, the Foreign Office asked for a volume on the Blockade of Germany at their expense, because of the lessons that could be learned and its utility in conferences on international law; by being labelled \"Confidential\" it could be written frankly. Several volumes were financed by interested departments but Edmonds retained supervision and maintained the same editorial control as for the other volumes.\n\nParsimony affected the organisation of the Historical Section and the speed it could publish the \"History... \" Premises, visits to battlefields and the number of historians and administrators were limited and in 1922, Edmonds threatened to resign if denied more help. Along with Daniel and Edmonds, the section had only three or four full-time officers, who had to write the volumes, prepare them for publication, maintain the library, study prisoner of war (POW) records and foreign official and non-official publications (in their native language) and provide help for the War Office, War Graves Commission, Staff College, educational establishments and government departments. The section had about a year to its cramped offices in Cavendish Square, until it moved to the Audit Office in 1922. By 1924, Edmonds had five administrators and eight writers, when the French and German equivalents had about the British staff were also underpaid, A. F. Becke being refused a salary increase from £500 per annum. Edmonds got the money instead, from £560 to £800 per annum and then £1,000 per annum in 1924, when he was writing most of the histories, managing the section and working a seven-day-week for three months, then taking ten days off (Edmonds worked like this for much of the of the project). A 1927 proposal for Cyril Falls (2 March 1888 – 23 April 1971) to visit Mesopotamia for £200 was vetoed by the Treasury but £50 was allowed for Aspinall-Oglander to visit Gallipoli.\n\nThe British had fielded the largest land army in their history, by 1924 the army had generated more than documents and Edmonds thought they would take nine years to sort. When he took up his duties, Edmonds found the papers in heaps in the floor and apparently summarily sacked the Chief Clerk, for refusing to climb a ladder to retrieve a bundle. Edmonds complained that his predecessor, C. T. Atkinson, had let historians plunder the packets of documents and not return items; it had taken until June 1923 to catalogue the records. The first draft of a volume was prepared by a \"narrator\", who sorted, read and analysed the documents. The result was revised by the \"historian\" who added comments and a conclusion. The draft was then sent to participants down to battalion commanders, other senior military officers, politicians and government departments. The draft for 1916 Part I (including the First Day on the Somme) was sent to who by 1931, had sent Comments on the first chapter created a pile high and Edmonds complained that his staff was insufficient, considering that he had briefed them that all names, initials, ranks and numbers had to be checked and then cross-checked with the French and German accounts; the small number of staff slowed production. In 1922, Edmonds had calculated that it would take twenty years to write ten volumes, a feat that the French had achieved in three years. It took (excluding 1939–1945) to produce Front volumes and on other theatres.\n\nWhile finance determined the speed of the writing of volumes, Edmonds as Director had the greater influence on the literary and academic integrity of the work. In the first volume published in 1922, Edmonds wrote in the preface, that \"no deviation from the truth nor misrepresentation will be found in the official histories on which my name appeared\". Edmonds' claim has been challenged ever since, leading to a common assumption that the work is vapid at best and at worst fraudulent, a partial, misleading and exculpatory account of the military establishment. In 1934, Liddell Hart questioned the integrity of the writers, calling 1918 Part I \"patriotic\" and \"parochial\". Norman Brook, one of the official historians, claimed in 1945, that Edmonds could not be trusted to revise 1916 Part I, because he had succumbed to the temptation to interpolate his views. In 1976, John Keegan (15 May 1934 – 2 August 2012) wrote\n\nIn 1985, David French wrote that Edmonds \"...has a private purpose to conceal the truth about the high command in France from the lay public...\" and that Edmonds had become concerned to refute claims by politicians, that Haig wasted lives on futile offensives; Edmonds' subjects were heroes beyond criticism. Tim Travers wrote that Edmonds eschewed direct criticism of senior officers, was obliged to Haig and protected his reputation, rigged facts and drew false conclusions in the volumes on the Somme (1916 Part I), Passchendaele (1917 Part II) and 1918 Part I. In 1996, Paddy Griffith (4 February 1947 – 25 June 2010), called it an \"...encyclopaedic work, transparently individualistic in tone, lucidly organised, wide in scope and by far the best book on the Western Front.\". Griffith called the quantity of writing on the Great War \"prodigious\" and that despite Edmonds being unstable, insecure and having never held a field appointment, he was conscientious, intelligent and rarely allowed his devious and opinionated nature to distort his work on the official history.\n\nEdmonds determined the presentation of information, which imposed constraints on the authors. All but implied criticism was to be avoided and the author was to resist the temptation to be \"wise after the event\". Disclosure of facts about opponents was to be kept to small-type footnotes or notes at the end of chapters, because introducing facts not known at the time was hindsight, which was unfair and un-scholarly. A conclusion could be written for reflection and comment but not for fault- finding. For Edmonds, the constraints were necessary for the facts innocuously to be shown to the lay reader, yet be available to experts reading between the lines. After Henry FitzMaurice Stacke, the first author of \"Military Operations: East Africa, Volume I\" died and Charles Hordern was appointed as replacement, Hordern wrote that Stacke had been frustrated by being obliged to\n\nThe avoidance of hindsight was consistent with the education Edmonds received at the Staff College on the teaching of Carl von Clausewitz (1 June 1780 – 16 November 1831), that the critic must only use the information available to a commander and his motives, rather than what the commander did not and could not know. Using knowledge after the event could show arrogance and a lack of critical judgement. In writing the first Gallipoli volume (1929), Cecil Aspinall-Oglander ignored the convention and on the draft copy, Edmonds called his account biased and lacking in the objective judgement necessary for an official historian. When Aspinall-Oglander refused to revise his text, Edmonds criticised him for\n\na complaint which had been occasionally levelled at Edmonds by the War Office and several participants in the war. Despite the constraints that Edmonds imposed on the form of the official histories, Green called his accounts accurate and comprehensive. Edmonds's correspondence with Basil Liddell Hart shows that Hart valued the official history and offered constructive criticism. Green wrote that when David French called the work \"official but not history\", he had used Hart's words out of context, Liddell Hart meaning that by leaving potentially controversial details to be read between the lines, Edmonds created the risk that later historians might use the phrase \"official but not history\", to describe the volumes.\n\nIn October 1920, the Government of India provided money for a record of the Indian contribution to the world war and chose Brigadier-General F. J. Moberly (15 September 1867 – 6 April 1952) to write the official account of the Mesopotamian Campaign (6 November 1914 – 14 November 1918). Moberly published it in four volumes from 1923–1927 and in 1926 the Government of India requested an additional volume on the Persian Campaign (December 1914 – 30 October 1918). The work was nearly finished by September 1927, when the Government of India had doubts about publication on political grounds, because it would be dangerous to disclose intrigues with Iranian governments and individuals. The most helpful Iranian factions would come badly out of a volume that denigrated their assistance and \"...the less we bring Afghanistan into the narrative the better for us\". Sir Denys Bray of the Foreign and Political Department (Army Headquarters, India) supported the \"excellent written\" history but wanted it lodged in the \"Confidential\" records. Stephen Gaslee of the Foreign Office wrote to Daniel in October 1927, about his concern that the government of the Soviet Union (USSR) might publish information from the Russian Empire on Iran.\n\nGaslee felt that Soviet disclosures might put the British government at a disadvantage, if a censored version of British involvement in Iran had already been published; instead he preferred a comprehensive history kept \"Confidential\". General G. M. Kirkpatrick (Chief of the General Staff [India] from 1916 to 1920), took the view that discussion of the Seistan Strategy might upset Iranian sensibilities. Sir Percy Cox (20 November 1864 – 20 February 1937) who had been Chief Political Officer of Indian Expeditionary Force D, told Moberly that it was a fine piece of work, free from bias. Moberly wrote to Cox that avoiding controversy would render the volume valueless, making it impossible to justify British involvement in Iran to the public. Moberly referred to sensitivity over the \"corrupt and self-interested attitude\" of most Iranian politicians during the war and British fears of unrest in Afghanistan. Cox agreed that a bowdlerised account would be worthless and that Moberly should write without fear or favour, if necessary securing a commercial publisher. At a meeting of the Committee on Official Histories on 9 March 1928, the volume was limited \"For Official Use Only\" and since this would increase the cost of the volume, His Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO) agreed to pay for it.\n\nMoberly finished the work in May 1928, then in September, after the Foreign Office and the Government of India had approved the text, Lord Peel, Secretary of State for India, insisted that the politics of the military operations be removed and the last three chapters re-written, because even in a volume restricted \"For Official Use Only\", the disclosure of secrets was most objectionable. Moberly wrote that if officers were to benefit from the experience of wartime events in Iran, the exceptional nature of political factors there and in neighbouring countries could not be ignored. Moberly wrote that he understood the need for care in writing the history and that the chapters had been vetted informally by the Foreign Office and approved by Cox, who as an expert in the field, was well qualified to balance secrecy with the needs of army students. At a meeting of the Committee on Official Histories on 26 March 1929, it was ruled that the volume would be marked \"Confidential\" in Britain and \"Secret\" in India. Edmonds had objected to the \"Confidential\" label, since it would be withheld from young officers but was over-ruled. A limited edition of copies was printed by HMSO in late 1929, with marked \"Secret\" and sent to the Government of India. In March 1930, copies of the \"Confidential\" volume were supplied to the Imperial War Museum (IWM) library among others and in February 1933, HMSO destroyed the last copies; in 1987 the IWM published a facsimile copy of the volume at £24 net.\n\nIn 1930, Edmonds proposed a volume on the occupation in the Rhine Province by British Army on the Rhine (BAOR), to counter a recent German book but the Treasury refused to pay. Edmonds hoped that the War Office would find the money, began to collect information from former commanders and staffs of the BAOR and ensured the storage of BAOR records. By 1939, poor offices, lack of promotions and government parsimony, led him to complain that the official history, a national memorial, was being neglected. When Daniel retired in late 1939, Edmonds took on the duties of Secretary as well as Director and on 15 November, the Historical Section was evacuated to St. Anne's on Sea, Lancashire and thence to the National Library of Wales at Aberystwyth in April 1942. In February, the Committee for the Control of Official Histories decided to let Edmonds write the volume. R. A. Butler, President of the Board of Education, said that the volume would be useful as a historical background for the Armistice and disarmament terms to be imposed on Germany. In 1987, Bayliss wrote that utility was the main criterion but that it also kept Edmonds busy, having been passed over for the writing of the official histories of the Second World War. Edmonds was pleased because he saw it as the final volume of his Western Front campaign history.\n\nEdmonds felt qualified to write the volume, having visited the Rhineland during the occupation, having gained specialist knowledge of the law of military government working with Professor L. F. L. Oppenheim (30 March 1858 – 7 October 1919) in 1912 on \"The Laws and Usages of War\" and being on good terms with many of the senior officers involved. Edmonds was hampered by a 1942 air raid, that burnt many of the records stored at Walworth in London. At Aberystwyth, Edmonds was isolated from metropolitan libraries and short of researchers. Requests for help from the Director of the Imperial War Museum had little effect, since his books had been moved to Barnstaple in Devon and because coverage of the occupation and inter-war period was sparse, owing to the usual lack of money. Edmonds was still able to glean plenty of details and gossip from senior officers in the occupation. General Charles Fergusson (17 January 1865 – 20 February 1951), a former military governor of Cologne, said that he disliked Field Marshal William Robertson (29 January 1860 – 12 February 1933) and that the enmity had led him to resign, despite being on good terms with General Herbert Plumer (13 March 1857 – 16 July 1932).\n\nMajor-General Archibald Montgomery-Massingberd, Chief of Staff of the BAOR, criticised Robertson for being too fussy, Fergusson for pro-German sympathies and told Plumer that Fergusson was too much of a gentleman for the job. Plumer had asked if it were possible to be too much of a gentleman and Massingberd reminisced that he had said\n\nDue to the hostilities, Edmonds was unable to correspond and exchange material with German researchers and was allowed only a galley proof and one page proof. In October 1943, Edmonds complained that speed and economy mattered more than respect for military history. Edmonds hoped that the volume would have educational use, in the event that Britain would again occupy foreign lands and that\n\nEdmonds struggled to produce an impartial history of the occupation and draft copies sent to the War Office and Foreign Office, led Brigadier W. L. van Cutsen for the War Office to complain that the volume should have been more broadly written and that administrative and other details were overly detailed but he found the chapter on the operations of the British Upper Silesia Force helpful. Far worse criticism came from the Foreign Office on 3 January 1944, the text being called often misleading and incomplete, without the inclusion of much controversial material. It was suggested that the value of the volume would be enhanced by the reduction of political references to mere facts and dates. Examples included a desire to describe the murder of Kurt von Schleicher (7 April 1882 – 30 June 1934) \"in the purge of 30 June 1934\" rather than \"by Hitler\" in Edmonds' draft. Unemployment pay should never be referred to as a \"dole\" as this implied that British men had enlisted in the pre-1914 army to avoid starvation and Lloyd George (17 January 1863 – 26 March 1945) might resent being portrayed as \"less well-disposed\" to Germany, than Bonar Law (16 September 1858 – 30 October 1923). More examples were quoted and ended on Edmonds' description of the Locarno Treaties (5–16 October 1925) with \"...it is most improper for an official historian to describe a treaty concluded by His Majesty's Government as 'verbiage'\".\n\nEdmonds retorted that he would ignore the criticisms as they were \"trifling or silly\", except for a request to cut a comment that Viscount D'Abernon, Ambassador to Germany (1920–1925) was pro-German. Edmonds pointed out that the views were his, not officially endorsed and that the official history should not be determined by the War Office, Admiralty or Foreign Office. The volume had been based on official documents and he stood by it. The source of the criticism was Charles Webster (25 July 1886 – August 1961), who had written memoranda analysing the Armistice and military occupation, ready for the anticipated re-occupation of Germany. Edmonds was most critical of one of the documents and wrote to Webster defending Haig. Obstacles were placed between him and his detractors, with the intention of protecting his feelings, because the Foreign Office harboured another critic, Llewellyn Woodward (1890–1971), who called the book episodic, with slurred chronology and a narrative of the controversy over provisioning the occupied territories, that was misleading; criticism of civilian authorities lacked evidence and was \"dogmatic and prejudiced\". Woodward, less critical than Webster, asked him to spare Edmonds' feelings but Webster found the book lacking in analytical rigour, refused to devote more time to it and R. A. Butler, Chairman of the Committee on the Control of Official Histories, got the job of rejecting the book for publication. In July 1944, over Edmonds' objections, it was decided to print a hundred copies \"For Official Use Only\" but only after many Foreign Office demands had been conceded, including cuts to the preface.\n\nWork on the volume had begun in 1930, resumed in September 1942 and was completed in draft in July 1943. Ready to print in May 1944, the order came on 31 July for a limited edition by HMSO, because the small print run made it impossible for Macmillan to realise a profit. Edmonds later tried to have the small issue made public but in November 1947, HMSO was ordered to destroy the type of the book. (The volume remained unseen, until the Fifty-year Rule was amended to the Thirty-year rule in 1967, that allowed the public to view the surviving copies.) The failings of the volume raised questions as to the suitability of Edmonds continuing as Director of the Historical Section for the rest of the series but given that it was beyond his normal area of expertise, he was allowed to carry on and produced a short account of the Occupation of Constantinople, saw the remaining volumes on the Western Front through to publication and retired in July 1949, just before the publication of the final volume \"Military Operations: Italy, 1915–1919\" (1949), ended thirty years' work. Edmonds was somewhat chagrined when the War Office ordered 800 copies of \"Assize of Arms\" (1946) by Brigadier-General J. H. Morgan (20 March 1876 – 8 April 1955), that he called far more outspoken on the occupation.\n\nIn the second volume of \"Military Operations France and Belgium, 1917\" (1917 Part II) Edmonds, wrote that Haig and General Hubert Gough (12 August 1870 – 18 March 1963) the Fifth Army commander (30 October 1916 – 27 March 1918), were at cross purposes before and during the early part of the Third Battle of Ypres (31 July – 10 November 1917). Edmonds described meetings between Gough and his corps commanders on at which deeper objectives than those of the \"GHQ 1917\" plan was decided and that an extra objective was added, to be attempted at the discretion of divisional commanders. This fourth objective (red line) was beyond the range of most of the Fifth Army field artillery, so all heavy artillery was to be on call to put a defensive barrage beyond advanced posts along it. An advance to the red line was to be attempted only against weak opposition.\n\nBrigadier-General J. H. Davidson, head of the Operations Branch at General Headquarters, questioned the Fifth Army plan in a memorandum of 26 June, recommending that the objectives be less ambitious and that the provision for an advance of to the red line be abandoned. A Fifth Army order of 27 June, summarised a meeting of Gough and the corps commanders the previous day and laid down the green line as the main objective, that required an advance of in the south, in the centre and in the north, at the junction with the French First Army (General François Anthoine). Patrols were to be sent forward to probe the German defences and occupy vacant ground but it was more important to avoid a ragged front line. In reply to Davidson, Gough wrote that the green line should be attempted and that opportunities to take ground up to the red line \"without much opposition\", should be taken.\n\nOn 28 June, Haig discussed the Davidson memo at a meeting with Gough and General Plumer (commander of the Second Army on the right of the Fifth Army) and emphasised the importance of the Gheluvelt plateau. Edmonds wrote that the Fifth Army plan did not conform to Haig's requirement that the main battle would be fought for the plateau. Gough had spread the Fifth Army divisions evenly along the front, when he could have increased the size of II Corps (Lieutenant-General Claud Jacob), opposite the plateau. In a footnote, Edmonds described Fifth Army intelligence summaries in July, that stressed the strength of the German defences on the plateau, that the Germans were building more defences there than on the rest of the front and that the assembly areas of the German \"Eingreif divisions\" (specialist counter-attack divisions) were behind the plateau and the Broodseinde–Passchendaele ridge. The summaries predicted that the Germans would try to hold the plateau, even if driven back across the Steenbeek further north.\n\nThe description of the misunderstanding between Haig and Gough is contradicted by an account on the following pages, of a visit made on 27 June by Haig to the headquarters of II Corps. Jacob asked that his southern flank be extended to allow an attack on the Bassevillebeek Spur (Tower Hamlets) beyond the Bassevillebeek Stream, to deny the German army a jumping-off place, for counter-attacks against the right flank of the corps. Haig emphasised the importance of the capture of the plateau and arranged with the Fifth Army headquarters \"at once\", for II Corps to take command of the 24th Division (Major-General Major-General Louis Bols) to the south, that was the northernmost division of the Second Army. The Fifth Army–Second Army boundary was moved south on 4 July, to the road. In a footnote Edmonds described the transfer of the artillery of the 23rd Division (Major-General J. M. Babington), the 24th Division artillery, thirteen medium ( and batteries from the Second Army to II Corps.\n\nEdmonds recorded and medium guns, and medium howitzers, and , a total of pieces in the Fifth Army or \"on the Fifth Army front\". In footnotes, Edmonds added that II Corps had an \"extra division\", three heavy counter-battery and three heavy bombardment double groups; (a single group had heavy or medium batteries) while each of the three British corps to the north had two heavy counter-battery double groups and three heavy bombardment single groups. The II Corps divisions had eight or nine field artillery brigades each, rather than the six in the divisions of the other corps. II Corps had of the Fifth Army artillery and had five divisions, with being engaged on 31 July, compared to four divisions with two engaged, in each of the other corps. The green line for II Corps varied, from a depth of on the southern flank at Klein Zillibeke, to on the northern flank, along the Ypres–Roulers railway; the green line from the southern flank of XIX Corps to the northern flank of XIV Corps required an advance of . An advance of to the red line was not fundamental to the plan and discretion to attempt it was left with the divisional commanders, based on the extent of local German resistance, which conformed to the manual SS 135. Had the German defence collapsed and the red line been reached, the German I, II and III lines would have been east of the new front line, except for of south of Broodseinde.\n\nIn \"The Killing Ground...\" (1987), Tim Travers wrote that on the planning and conduct of the Battle of Pilckem Ridge (31 July – 2 August) and the Battle of Langemarck described in 1917 Part II, the volume reflected three controversies. Travers wrote that Gough believed that Haig had ordered him to plan a breakthrough offensive, particularly at the meeting on 28 June, yet a few days later, Haig changed his mind and wanted a step-by-step attack. Travers wrote that it was illogical to give the principal command of a bite and hold attack to a \"thruster\" like Gough, when Plumer had a reputation for thoroughness. Travers wrote that Haig wavered in his thinking about what he wanted but left Gough under the impression that he was to plan a breakthrough attack.\n\nTravers wrote that Haig had emphasised the importance of the Gheluvelt plateau, particularly at the meeting of 28 June and that on 30 June, Haig wrote, \"Capture the Passchendaele–Staden Ridge\", on his copy of the Fifth Army plan. The importance of the Gheluvelt plateau is also found in GHQ orders of 5 July and Fifth Army orders on 8 July. Travers wrote that the Fifth Army failed to give adequate emphasis to this and that a structural obstacle constrained the army, since the southern edge of the Gheluvelt plateau was inside the Second Army boundary. Travers concluded that Haig and GHQ chose the time, place and strategy of the campaign and that Gough and the Fifth Army staff decided the tactics. Travers called Wynne's first draft of 1917 Part II (1943) as \"anti-Haig\", the second draft (1944) as \"anti-Gough\" and the third draft (1945) as \"anti-Haig and anti-Gough\". Edmonds's fourth draft (published 1948) was \"pro-Haig and anti-Gough\" and Wynne declined to be named as an author. Travers wrote that Edmonds was willing to accept criticism and made amendments for interested parties, to whom drafts were circulated but became increasingly protective of Haig's reputation and noticeably autocratic towards the other historians.\n\nTravers described a leadership vacuum in the BEF caused by delegation, that was \"scandalous\" and that Edmonds failed to stress this. Gough had attempted a breakthrough offensive, conforming to the decisions laid down by Haig, was at fault for overlooking the importance of the Gheluvelt plateau and for ignoring a suggestion by the XIV Corps commander (Lieutenant-General Rudolph Cavan), to add weight to the attack there. Travers wrote that 1917 Part II omitted a request made by Gough in August for a conference, to discuss a remedy for the lack of weight being brought against the Gheluvelt plateau, a matter that Haig and the staff at GHQ should have settled long before the attack commenced, along with the awkward placement of the Second Army-Fifth Army boundary. In the published version of 1917 Part II, most of the blame for the decisions on the type of offensive, the width and direction of attacks and responsibility for planning was put on Gough and the Fifth Army staff, rather than on Haig and GHQ for selecting the Ypres Salient at all.\n\nIn 2003, Green described the writing of 1917 Part II by Wynne and the circulation of the first draft to participants. Gough found the first draft highly objectionable and since so many other participants in the battle had died, his views were given considerable attention by Edmonds, during Wynne's absence on war work in 1943. Gough held that the draft exaggerated his intention to break through the German defences at Ypres. Gough described the meeting of 28 June 1917 by Haig, Gough and Plumer, as evidence of Haig's understanding and acceptance of the Fifth Army plan. Gough noted that General Headquarters had caused a road to be built and kept clear for the use of cavalry and that Haig had rejected Rawlinson's and Plumer's plans as too limited. Gough stressed that his plan was not limited by specific objectives, which had hampered attacks at Loos and Gallipoli in 1915 and the Somme in 1916. Wynne had referred to the Davidson memo of 26 June but Gough pointed out that reserves were available close by, to exploit advantages that emerged, rather than the first attacking troops were to advance indefinitely.\n\nGreen wrote that Edmonds told Wynne to include the points made by Gough but that Wynne objected, because Davidson had related how Haig revised his views after a 25 June meeting with the Cabinet in London and wrote \"wear down the enemy but have an objective\" on the Fifth Army plan. Wynne claimed that Gough had misunderstood Haig's intentions and that was the source of Gough's objections to the draft; Edmonds supported Wynne but later changed his mind. Green wrote that Haig had intended Gough to conduct a breakthrough attempt and that Edmonds had included this in the draft, as well as describing the changes in Haig's outlook during 1917, as the prospect of significant French support varied. Gough had added the red line to meet Haig's requirements but overlooked the importance of the Gheluvelt plateau, spreading his forces equally across the attack front. Green noted that Prior and Wilson had found this in their 1998 study and that in 2001 Simpson noted Prior and Wilson's emphasis on artillery and lack of analysis of infantry operations. Green also wrote that Edmonds referred to the continuity of Haig's optimism about the possibility of a deep advance on 4 August, 21 September and in early October, long after the likelihood had ended.\n\nEdmonds changed the draft in Gough's favour, by showing that the weather in August was unusually wet, with extracts from a French study \"Le Climat de La France\" (Bigourdan) that contradicted the 1929 of Haig's Chief Intelligence Officer Brigadier-General J. Charteris (1915–1918). Edmonds wrote that the worst of the weather was from yet vividly described the wet and muddy conditions in August and their morale-sapping effect on British troops. Wynne had written extensively on the difficulties of the French Army after the Nivelle offensive and its effect on British strategy but Edmonds cut much of this. Edmonds left much of the remainder of Wynne's draft, despite Gough's objection that it implied that Haig had abrogated his authority, by delegating so much to Gough and not imposing changes, to allay his doubts about the Fifth Army plan for the Gheluvelt plateau. Edmonds noted the persistence with which Haig pursued objectives and that he advocated attacks regardless of their geographical progress, to keep pressure on the German army.\n\nGreen related an estrangement between Wynne and Edmonds, over Edmonds' willingness to accept Gough's objections. Edmonds sent Wynne to meet Gough, which led to a substantial change in Wynne's point of view. Wynne revised the draft to remove much of the blame from Gough, writing that Haig bore principal responsibility for the Fifth Army plan in the third (1945) draft. Edmonds then found this draft objectionable and quarrelled with Wynne, who declined to be named as an author. Green wrote that Edmonds and Wynne had changed their views about Gough and made the narrative of his role in the events of 1917 much more accurate, it being noticeably less defensive of Haig. Wynne's conclusion had been that the strategy of retaining the initiative to protect the French Army had worked and that the tactical intention to clear the Belgian coast had failed, due to an underestimation of German resilience and the mistaken attempt at a breakthrough.\n\nEarlier plans had been for short steps and an emphasis on the Gheluvelt plateau. Haig was responsible for accepting Gough's plan for 31 July, despite his cautious reminder to Gough on 6 July, giving the Passchendaele–Staden Ridge and the Belgian coast as geographical objectives. Wynne removed these details from his draft but concluded that the \"GHQ 1917\" plan might have been as successful as the Battle of Messines (7–14 June). Edmonds had also accepted the logic of an offensive in Flanders but not that of appointing Gough; if Haig had wanted a cautious attack he was wrong to have superseded Plumer. Green showed that Edmonds acknowledged the constraints affecting Haig but that he had wanted a breakthrough attack, chose Gough who known as a \"thruster\" and encouraged his optimism; Haig had kept any misgivings to himself.\n\nGreen referred to Travers and wrote that he had taken the same view as Edmonds, on the questions of the intended breakthrough and the importance of the Gheluvelt plateau. Edmonds had written that Haig had accepted Gough's wishes and Green wrote that this did not mean that Gough was aware of Haig's doubts. Edmonds thought that Haig wanted a decisive success and the capture of distant objectives on the first day, \"despite\" doubts that he withheld. Travers had written that the Edmonds draft was wrong, yet had formed the same conclusions as Edmonds. Travers had criticised the published draft, for failing to record that Haig had not resolved disagreements and problems among his subordinates, long before the offensive began; Green wrote that Edmonds had made the same criticism. Green wrote that judging the drafts of the volume \"pro-\" or \"anti-\" Haig or Gough was facile and led to inconsistent conclusions. If the published draft was \"anti-\" Gough that it was surprising that he had called it a great improvement.\n\nGreen compared the volume with later studies and wrote that the narrative did not support an explanation of the delay from being caused by a need to divert the Germans from the French army. On 7 May, Haig had decided to begin the Messines operation in early June but he had not been informed until 2 June of the state of the French army. Edmonds had written that the attack on Messines Ridge began on 7 June, because of the difficulty of mounting three simultaneous attacks at Ypres. Edmonds ascribed the apparent delay from to Haig's decision to give principal responsibility to Gough. Wynne had claimed that Edmonds failed to reveal the superiority of German tactics but in 1998, Prior and Wilson had shown that British tactics had evolved in 1917, although their application was inconsistent. Edmonds had demonstrated that the attack on Messines ridge was a cautious advance for . The plan incorporated progressive elements like those used at Arras on 9 April, particularly emphases on counter-battery fire and a carefully controlled creeping barrage.\n\nThe Second Army had and howitzers, that fired of ammunition, times more than that available for the First Day on the Somme (1 July 1916), to counter the deep German defence zones and \"Eingreif\" divisions. Strongpoints were destroyed, wire was cut and German artillery suppressed. Three layers of creeping barrage deep preceded the infantry, who had been trained in the pillbox fighting methods used at Vimy Ridge. The infantry were followed by mopping-up parties, who captured by-passed German positions. Use of such techniques had been possible, because the artillery had become more accurate. The gunners also had more ammunition to use and had been able to suppress German defences as the British advanced; objectives had been limited to the range of the artillery and had led to a great victory. Prior and Wilson wrote that these methods were not used on 31 July, because Haig had over-ruled Rawlinson, Plumer and Davidson; Gough over-reached and left the British infantry vulnerable to German counter-attacks. Edmonds had written that on 31 July, excessive demands had been placed on the artillery, that had spread its fire too thin.\n\nGreen wrote that at the end of August, Haig had turned to Plumer and bite-and-hold methods, that Edmonds called this a radical revision. The greatest weight of artillery-fire possible was to be massed against the Gheluvelt plateau, for a succession of strictly limited attacks. Plumer planned four steps at six-day intervals, to give time to move artillery and supplies forward. The steps were limited to a depth of and a large increase in medium and heavy artillery was to be used to smash pillboxes and to add to the counter-battery effort. The Battle of the Menin Road Ridge (20–26 September) had double the number of guns on half the depth of attack, making four times the weight of shell compared to 31 July. Infantry tactics also emphasised systematic consolidation of all captured ground and strongpoints. With the new battle drill and unprecedented artillery support, the attack was a great success. Green noted that Prior and Wilson described Menin road as a triumph of reduced expectations and that Passchendaele Ridge was still away. Haig had then insisted on preparations for a breakthrough after the successes of the Battle of Polygon Wood (26–27 September) and the Battle of Broodseinde (4 October) but inadequate artillery preparation led to the failures at the Battle of Poelcappelle (9 October) and the First Battle of Passchendaele (12 October).\n\nGreen concluded that the publication of 1917 Part II in 1948 had much to awaken controversy, particularly the contrast between flawed tactics and the methods used with success earlier in 1917. Green wrote that the volume mostly accorded with modern writing and contained little bias regarding Haig. Edmonds had referred to the external constraints of lack of manpower and the state of the French Army, yet his narrative had made the military errors manifest; Haig's desire for a breakthrough had led to a failure to relate strategy to tactics. Haig had failed to communicate with Plumer and Gough and had prolonged the offensive beyond the period of good weather that ended in early October. Green concluded that Edmonds had produced a work of lasting authority, in a series of substantial historical, military and literary value. Green wrote that later scholars who have accused Edmonds of bias, have had to acknowledge that his assessments and conclusions are largely accurate.\n\nTitles are on the front of dust jackets and on title pages, usually \"History of the Great War based on Official Documents by Direction of the Committee of Imperial Defence\", followed by the place and a description of the contents of the volume. On the spine \"Military Operations\" is used, followed by the location, year and asterisks showing the part number, e.g. \"France and Belgium 1917 *\". Edmonds wrote most of \"Military Operations: France and Belgium\" and Cecil Faber Aspinall-Oglander, Archibald Frank Becke (maps), Cyril Falls, Charles Hordern, George Macmunn, Wilfrid Miles, Henry FitzMaurice Stacke and Graeme Chamley Wynne wrote most of the volumes beyond the Western Front, edited by Edmonds. Frederick James Moberly was appointed by the Indian Army Historical Office as author of \"The Campaign in Mesopotamia\" 1914–1918 and \"Operations in Persia\" 1914–1919 in which the Indian Army played a large part.\n\n[Author initials only, after first use]\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll volumes with title page \"History of the Great War Based on Official Documents by Direction of the Historical Section of the Committee of Imperial Defence\", second title page has \"War in the Air\" and volume number.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHelp\n"}
{"id": "34336539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34336539", "title": "Hsieh Che-ching", "text": "Hsieh Che-ching\n\nHsieh Che-ching (in Chinese: 謝哲青, born 18 November 1973, Hualien County, Taiwan) is a Taiwanese cultural/art history expert, broadcaster, travel writer, and mountaineer.\n\nHsieh Che-ching was born in Hualien, grew up and studied in Kaohsiung, and now lives in Taipei. He has a BA degree in history and a master's degree from the Department of the History of Art and Archaeology at SOAS. He can speak Chinese, Japanese, English, Italian, and Latin.\n\nHsieh Che-ching has led mountaineering groups for the tourist industry and has traveled in 86 countries. He has travelled to Everest in the Himalayas, Puncak Jaya in Indonesia, and Mazha Luo Shan in Kenya, east Africa, as well as around the world by ship. His cultural connections include the British Museum, National Gallery in London, and Christie's auction house. Xie's main interest is in cultural history and art history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77323", "title": "John Brown (abolitionist)", "text": "John Brown (abolitionist)\n\nJohn Brown (May 9, 1800 – December 2, 1859) was an American abolitionist who believed in and advocated armed insurrection as the only way to overthrow the institution of slavery in the United States. He first gained attention when he led small groups of volunteers during the Bleeding Kansas crisis of 1856. He was dissatisfied with the pacifism of the organized abolitionist movement: \"These men are all talk. What we need is action—action!\" In May 1856, Brown and his supporters killed five supporters of slavery in the Pottawatomie massacre, which responded to the sacking of Lawrence by pro-slavery forces. Brown then commanded anti-slavery forces at the Battle of Black Jack (June 2) and the Battle of Osawatomie (August 30, 1856).\n\nIn October 1859, Brown led a raid on the federal armory at Harpers Ferry, Virginia (today West Virginia) to start a liberation movement among the slaves there. He seized the armory, but seven people were killed, and ten or more were injured. He intended to arm slaves with weapons from the arsenal, but the attack failed. Within 36 hours, Brown's men had fled or been killed or captured by local farmers, militiamen, and US Marines led by Robert E. Lee. He was tried for treason against the Commonwealth of Virginia, the murder of five men (including 3 blacks), and inciting a slave insurrection, was found guilty on all counts, and was hanged.\n\nHistorians agree that the Harpers Ferry raid escalated tensions that led to the South's secession a year later and the American Civil War. Brown's raid captured the nation's attention; Southerners feared that it was just the first of many Northern plots to cause a slave rebellion that might endanger their lives, while Republicans dismissed the notion and claimed that they would not interfere with slavery in the South. \"John Brown's Body\" was a popular Union marching song that portrayed him as a martyr.\n\nBrown's actions as an abolitionist and the tactics he used still make him a controversial figure today. He is both memorialized as a heroic martyr and visionary, and vilified as a madman and a terrorist. Historian James Loewen surveyed American history textbooks and noted that historians considered Brown perfectly sane until about 1890, but generally portrayed him as insane from about 1890 until 1970 when new interpretations began to gain ground.\n\nJohn Brown was born May 9, 1800, in Torrington, Connecticut. He was the fourth of the eight children of Owen Brown (1771–1856) and Ruth Mills (1772–1808) and grandson of Capt. John Brown (1728–1776). Brown could trace his ancestry back to 17th-century English Puritans.\n\nIn 1805, the family moved to Hudson, Ohio, where Owen Brown opened a tannery. Brown's father became a supporter of the Oberlin Institute in its early stage, but was ultimately critical of the school's \"Perfectionist\" leanings, especially renowned in the preaching and teaching of Charles Finney and Asa Mahan. Brown withdrew his membership from the Congregational church in the 1840s and never officially joined another church, but both he and his father were fairly conventional evangelicals for the period with its focus on the pursuit of personal righteousness. Brown's personal religion is fairly well documented in the papers of the Reverend Clarence Gee, a Brown family expert, now held in the Hudson [Ohio] Library and Historical Society.\n\nBrown's father had as an apprentice Jesse R. Grant, father of Ulysses S. Grant. At 16, Brown left his family and went to Plainfield, Massachusetts, where he enrolled in a preparatory program. Shortly afterward, he transferred to the Morris Academy in Litchfield, Connecticut. He hoped to become a Congregational minister, but money ran out and he suffered from eye inflammations that forced him to give up the academy and return to Ohio. In Hudson, he worked briefly at his father's tannery before opening a successful tannery of his own outside of town with his adopted brother.\n\nIn 1820, Brown married Dianthe Lusk. Their first child, John Jr, was born 13 months later. In 1825, Brown and his family moved to New Richmond, Pennsylvania, where he bought of land. He cleared an eighth of it and built a cabin, a barn, and a tannery. The John Brown Tannery Site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978. Within a year, the tannery employed 15 men. Brown made money raising cattle and surveying. He helped to establish a post office and a school. During this period, Brown operated an interstate business involving cattle and leather production along with a kinsman, Seth Thompson, from eastern Ohio.\n\nIn 1831, one of his sons died. Brown fell ill, and his businesses began to suffer, leaving him in terrible debt. In the summer of 1832, shortly after the death of a newborn son, his wife Dianthe died. On June 14, 1833, Brown married 16-year-old Mary Ann Day (April 15, 1817 – May 1, 1884), originally from Washington County, New York. They eventually had 13 children, in addition to the seven from his previous marriage.\n\nIn 1836, Brown moved his family to Franklin Mills, Ohio (now known as Kent). There he borrowed money to buy land in the area, building and operating a tannery along the Cuyahoga River in partnership with Zenas Kent. He suffered great financial losses in the economic crisis of 1839, which struck the western states more severely than had the Panic of 1837. Following the heavy borrowing trends of Ohio, many businessmen like Brown trusted too heavily in credit and state bonds and paid dearly for it. In one episode of property loss, Brown was jailed when he attempted to retain ownership of a farm by occupying it against the claims of the new owner. Like other determined men of his time and background, he tried many different business efforts in an attempt to get out of debt. Along with tanning hides and cattle trading, he also undertook horse and sheep breeding, the last of which was to become a notable aspect of his pre-public vocation.\n\nIn 1837, in response to the murder of Elijah P. Lovejoy, Brown publicly vowed: \"Here, before God, in the presence of these witnesses, from this time, I consecrate my life to the destruction of slavery!\" Brown was declared bankrupt by a federal court on September 28, 1842. In 1843, four of his children died of dysentery. As Louis DeCaro Jr shows in his biographical sketch (2007), from the mid-1840s Brown had built a reputation as an expert in fine sheep and wool, and entered into a partnership with Col. Simon Perkins of Akron, Ohio, whose flocks and farms were managed by Brown and sons. Brown eventually moved into a home with his family across the street from the Perkins Stone Mansion on Perkins Hill. The John Brown House (Akron, Ohio) still stands and is owned and operated by The Summit County Historical Society of Akron, Ohio.\n\nIn 1846, Brown and his business partner Simon Perkins moved to the ideologically progressive city of Springfield, Massachusetts. There Brown found a community whose white leadership—from the community's most prominent churches, to its wealthiest businessmen, to its most popular politicians, to its local jurists, and even to the publisher of one of the nation's most influential newspapers—were deeply involved and emotionally invested in the anti-slavery movement. Brown and Perkins' intent was to represent the interests of the Ohio's wool growers as opposed to those of New England's wool manufacturers—thus Brown and Perkins set up a wool commission operation. While in Springfield, Brown lived in a house at 51 Franklin Street.\n\nTwo years before Brown's arrival in Springfield, in 1844, the city's African-American abolitionists had founded the Sanford Street Free Church—now known as St. John's Congregational Church—which went on to become one of the United States most prominent platforms for abolitionist speeches. From 1846 until he left Springfield in 1850, Brown was a parishioner at the Free Church, where he witnessed abolitionist lectures by the likes of Frederick Douglass and Sojourner Truth. In 1847, after speaking at the Free Church, Douglass spent a night speaking with Brown, after which he wrote, \"From this night spent with John Brown in Springfield, Mass. 1847 while I continued to write and speak against slavery, I became all the same less hopeful for its peaceful abolition. My utterances became more and more tinged by the color of this man's strong impressions.\" During Brown's time in Springfield, he became deeply involved in transforming the city into a major center of abolitionism, and one of the safest and most significant stops on the Underground Railroad.\n\nBrown also learned much about Massachusetts' mercantile elite; while he initially considered this knowledge a curse, it proved to be a boon to his later activities in Kansas and at Harpers Ferry. The business community had reacted with hesitation when Brown asked them to change their highly profitable practice of selling low-quality wool \"en masse\" at low prices. Initially, Brown naively trusted them, but he soon realized they were determined to maintain their control of price-setting. Also, on the outskirts of Springfield, the Connecticut River Valley's sheep farmers were largely unorganized and hesitant to change their methods of production to meet higher standards. In the \"Ohio Cultivator\", Brown and other wool growers complained that the Connecticut River Valley's farmers' tendencies were lowering all U.S. wool prices abroad. In reaction, Brown made a last-ditch effort to overcome the wool mercantile elite by seeking an alliance with European manufacturers. Ultimately, Brown was disappointed to learn that Europe preferred to buy Western Massachusetts wools \"en masse\" at the cheap prices they had been getting. Brown then traveled to England to seek a higher price for Springfield's wool. The trip was a disaster, as the firm incurred a loss of $40,000, of which Perkins bore the brunt. With this misfortune, the Perkins and Brown wool commission operation closed in Springfield in late 1849. Subsequent lawsuits tied up the partners for several more years.\n\nBefore Brown left Springfield in 1850, the United States passed the Fugitive Slave Act, a law mandating that authorities in free states aid in the return of escaped slaves and imposing penalties on those who aided in their escape. In response Brown founded a militant group to prevent slaves' capture, the League of Gileadites. In the Bible, Mount Gilead was the place where only the bravest of Israelites gathered to face an invading enemy. Brown founded the League with the words, \"Nothing so charmes the American people as personal bravery. [Blacks] would have ten times the number [of white friends than] they now have were they but half as much in earnest to secure their dearest rights as they are to ape the follies and extravagances of their white neighbors, and to indulge in idle show, in ease, and in luxury.\" Upon leaving Springfield in 1850, he instructed the League to act \"quickly, quietly, and efficiently\" to protect slaves that escaped to Springfield—words that would foreshadow Brown's later actions preceding Harpers Ferry. From Brown's founding of the \"League of Gileadites\" onward, not one person was ever taken back into slavery from Springfield. Brown gave his rocking chair to the mother of his beloved black porter, Thomas Thomas, as a gesture of affection.\n\nSome popular narrators have exaggerated the unfortunate demise of Brown and Perkins' wool commission in Springfield along with Brown's later life choices. In actuality, Perkins absorbed much of the financial loss, and their partnership continued for several more years, with Brown nearly breaking even by 1854. Brown's time in Springfield sowed the seeds for the future financial support he received from New England's great merchants, introduced him to nationally famous abolitionists like Douglass and Truth, and included the foundation of the League of Gileadites. During this time, Brown also helped publicize David Walker's speech \"Appeal\". Brown's personal attitudes evolved in Springfield, as he observed the success of the city's Underground Railroad and made his first venture into militant, anti-slavery community organizing. In speeches, he pointed to the martyrs Elijah Lovejoy and Charles Turner Torrey as whites \"ready to help blacks challenge slave-catchers.\" In Springfield, Brown found a city that shared his own anti-slavery passions, and each seemed to educate the other. Certainly, with both successes and failures, Brown's Springfield years were a transformative period of his life that catalyzed many of his later actions.\n\nIn 1848, Brown heard of Gerrit Smith's Adirondack land grants to poor black men, and decided to move his family among the new settlers. He bought land near North Elba, New York (near Lake Placid), for $1 an acre ($2 /ha), and spent 2 years there. After he was executed, his wife took his body there for burial. Since 1895, the farm has been owned by New York state. The John Brown Farm and Gravesite is now a National Historic Landmark.\n\nIn 1855, Brown learned from his adult sons in the Kansas territory that their families were completely unprepared to face attack, and that pro-slavery forces there were militant. Determined to protect his family and oppose the advances of slavery supporters, Brown left for Kansas, enlisting a son-in-law and making several stops just to collect funds and weapons. As reported by the New York \"Tribune\", Brown stopped en route to participate in an anti-slavery convention that took place in June 1855 in Albany, New York. Despite the controversy that ensued on the convention floor regarding the support of violent efforts on behalf of the free state cause, several people gave Brown financial support. As he went westward, Brown found more militant support in his home state of Ohio, particularly in the strongly anti-slavery Western Reserve section where he had been reared.\n\nBrown and the free settlers were optimistic that they could bring Kansas into the union as a slavery-free state. After the winter snows thawed in 1856, the pro-slavery activists began a campaign to seize Kansas on their own terms. Brown was particularly affected by the sacking of Lawrence in May 1856, in which a sheriff-led posse destroyed newspaper offices and a hotel. Only one man, a Border Ruffian, was killed. Preston Brooks's caning of anti-slavery Senator Charles Sumner in the United States Senate also fueled Brown's anger. A pro-slavery writer, Benjamin Franklin Stringfellow, of the \"Squatter Sovereign\", wrote that \"[pro-slavery forces] are determined to repel this Northern invasion, and make Kansas a Slave State; though our rivers should be covered with the blood of their victims, and the carcasses of the Abolitionists should be so numerous in the territory as to breed disease and sickness, we will not be deterred from our purpose\". Brown was outraged by both the violence of the pro-slavery forces and what he saw as a weak and cowardly response by the antislavery partisans and the Free State settlers, whom he described as \"cowards, or worse\".\n\nBrown's beloved father, Owen, died on May 8, 1856. Correspondence indicates that John Brown and his family received word of his death around the same time. Brown conducted surveillance on encamped \"ruffians\" in his vicinity and learned that his family was marked for attack, and furthermore was given supposedly reliable information as to pro-slavery neighbors who had aligned and supported these forces. Speaking of the threats that were supposedly the justification for the massacre, Free State leader Charles L. Robinson stated:\n\nWhen it is known that such threats were as plenty as blue-berries in June, on both sides, all over the Territory, and were regarded as of no more importance than the idle wind, this indictment will hardly justify midnight assassination of all pro-slavery men, whether making threats or not ... Had all men been killed in Kansas who indulged in such threats, there would have been none left to bury the dead.\n\nIn the two years prior to the Pottawatomie Creek massacre, there had been eight killings in Kansas Territory attributable to slavery politics, but none in the vicinity of the massacre. The massacre was the match in the powderkeg that precipitated the bloodiest period in \"Bleeding Kansas\" history, a three-month period of retaliatory raids and battles in which 29 people died.\n\nA force of Missourians, led by Captain Henry Pate, captured John Jr. and Jason, and destroyed the Brown family homestead, and later participated in the Sack of Lawrence. On June 2, John Brown, nine of his followers, and 20 local men successfully defended a Free State settlement at Palmyra, Kansas against an attack by Pate (see Battle of Black Jack). Pate and 22 of his men were taken prisoner. After capture, they were taken to Brown's camp, and received all the food Brown could find. Brown forced Pate to sign a treaty, exchanging the freedom of Pate and his men for the promised release of Brown's two captured sons. Brown released Pate to Colonel Edwin Sumner, but was furious to discover that the release of his sons was delayed until September.\n\nIn August, a company of over 300 Missourians under the command of General John W. Reid crossed into Kansas and headed towards Osawatomie, intending to destroy the Free State settlements there, and then march on Topeka and Lawrence.\n\nOn the morning of August 30, 1856, they shot and killed Brown's son Frederick and his neighbor David Garrison on the outskirts of Osawatomie. Brown, outnumbered more than seven to one, arranged his 38 men behind natural defenses along the road. Firing from cover, they managed to kill at least 20 of Reid's men and wounded 40 more. Reid regrouped, ordering his men to dismount and charge into the woods. Brown's small group scattered and fled across the Marais des Cygnes River. One of Brown's men was killed during the retreat and four were captured. While Brown and his surviving men hid in the woods nearby, the Missourians plundered and burned Osawatomie. Despite his defeat, Brown's bravery and military shrewdness in the face of overwhelming odds brought him national attention and made him a hero to many Northern abolitionists.\n\nOn September 7, Brown entered Lawrence to meet with Free State leaders and help fortify against a feared assault. At least 2,700 pro-slavery Missourians were once again invading Kansas. On September 14, they skirmished near Lawrence. Brown prepared for battle, but serious violence was averted when the new governor of Kansas, John W. Geary, ordered the warring parties to disarm and disband, and offered clemency to former fighters on both sides. Brown, taking advantage of the fragile peace, left Kansas with three of his sons to raise money from supporters in the North.\n\nBrown returned to the East by November 1856, and spent the next two years in New England raising funds. Initially he returned to Springfield, where he received contributions, and also a letter of recommendation from a prominent and wealthy merchant, George Walker. Walker was the brother-in-law of Franklin Benjamin Sanborn, the secretary for the Massachusetts State Kansas Committee, who introduced Brown to several influential abolitionists in the Boston area in January 1857. Amos Adams Lawrence, a prominent Boston merchant, secretly gave a large amount of cash. William Lloyd Garrison, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, Theodore Parker and George Luther Stearns, and Samuel Gridley Howe also supported Brown. A group of six wealthy abolitionists Sanborn, Higginson, Parker, Stearns, Howe, and Gerrit Smith agreed to offer Brown financial support for his antislavery activities; they eventually provided most of the financial backing for the raid on Harpers Ferry, and came to be known as the Secret Six or the Committee of Six. Brown often requested help from them with \"no questions asked\" and it remains unclear how much of Brown's scheme the Secret Six were aware of.\n\nOn January 7, 1858, the Massachusetts Committee pledged to provide 200 Sharps Rifles and ammunition, which were being stored at Tabor, Iowa. In March, Brown contracted Charles Blair of Collinsville, Connecticut for 1,000 pikes.\n\nIn the following months, Brown continued to raise funds, visiting Worcester, Springfield, New Haven, Syracuse and Boston. In Boston, he met Henry David Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson. He received many pledges but little cash. In March, while in New York City, he was introduced to Hugh Forbes, an English mercenary, who had experience as a military tactician fighting with Giuseppe Garibaldi in Italy in 1848. Brown hired him as his men's drillmaster and to write their tactical handbook. They agreed to meet in Tabor that summer. Using the alias Nelson Hawkins, Brown traveled through the Northeast and then visited his family in Hudson, Ohio. On August 7, he arrived in Tabor. Forbes arrived two days later. Over several weeks, the two men put together a \"Well-Matured Plan\" for fighting slavery in the South. The men quarreled over many of the details. In November, their troops left for Kansas. Forbes had not received his salary and was still feuding with Brown, so he returned to the East instead of venturing into Kansas. He soon threatened to expose the plot to the government.\nAs the October elections saw a free-state victory, Kansas was quiet. Brown made his men return to Iowa, where he told them tidbits of his Virginia scheme. In January 1858, Brown left his men in Springdale, Iowa, and set off to visit Frederick Douglass in Rochester, New York. There he discussed his plans with Douglass, and reconsidered Forbes' criticisms. Brown wrote a Provisional Constitution that would create a government for a new state in the region of his invasion. He then traveled to Peterboro, New York, and Boston to discuss matters with the Secret Six. In letters to them, he indicated that, along with recruits, he would go into the South equipped with weapons to do \"Kansas work\".\n\nBrown and 12 of his followers, including his son Owen, traveled to Chatham, Ontario, where he convened on May 10 a Constitutional Convention. The convention, with several dozen delegates including his friend James Madison Bell, was put together with the help of Dr. Martin Delany. One-third of Chatham's 6,000 residents were fugitive slaves, and it was here that Brown was introduced to Harriet Tubman. The convention assembled 34 blacks and 12 whites to adopt Brown's Provisional Constitution. According to Delany, during the convention, Brown illuminated his plans to make Kansas rather than Canada the end of the Underground Railroad. This would be the Subterranean Pass Way. Delany's reflections are not entirely trustworthy. Brown was no longer looking toward Kansas and was entirely focused on Virginia. Other testimony from the Chatham meeting suggests Brown did speak of going South. Brown had long used the terminology of the Subterranean Pass Way from the late 1840s, so it is possible that Delany conflated Brown's statements over the years. Regardless, Brown was elected commander-in-chief and named John Henrie Kagi his \"Secretary of War\". Richard Realf was named \"Secretary of State\". Elder Monroe, a black minister, was to act as president until another was chosen. A. M. Chapman was the acting vice president; Delany, the corresponding secretary. In 1859, \"A Declaration of Liberty by the Representatives of the Slave Population of the United States of America\" was written.\n\nAlthough nearly all of the delegates signed the constitution, very few volunteered to join Brown's forces, although it will never be clear how many Canadian expatriates actually intended to join Brown because of a subsequent \"security leak\" that threw off plans for the raid, creating a hiatus in which Brown lost contact with many of the Canadian leaders. This crisis occurred when Hugh Forbes, Brown's mercenary, tried to expose the plans to Massachusetts Senator Henry Wilson and others. The Secret Six feared their names would be made public. Howe and Higginson wanted no delays in Brown's progress, while Parker, Stearns, Smith and Sanborn insisted on postponement. Stearns and Smith were the major sources of funds, and their words carried more weight. To throw Forbes off the trail and invalidate his assertions, Brown returned to Kansas in June, and remained in that vicinity for six months. There he joined forces with James Montgomery, who was leading raids into Missouri. \n\nOn December 20, Brown led his own raid, in which he liberated 11 slaves, took captive two white men, and looted horses and wagons. On January 20, 1859, he embarked on a lengthy journey to take the liberated slaves to Detroit and then on a ferry to Canada. While passing through Chicago, Brown met with abolitionists Allan Pinkerton, John Jones, and Henry O. Wagoner who arranged and raised the fare for the passage to Detroit and purchase clothes and supplies for Brown. Jones's wife, Mary, guessed that the supplies included the suit Brown was later hanged in. On March 12, 1859, Brown met with Frederick Douglass and Detroit abolitionists George DeBaptiste, William Lambert, and others at William Webb's house in Detroit to discuss emancipation. DeBaptiste proposed that conspirators blow up some of the South's largest churches. The suggestion was opposed by Brown, who felt humanity precluded such unnecessary bloodshed.\n\nOver the course of the next few months, he traveled again through Ohio, New York, Connecticut, and Massachusetts to drum up more support for the cause. On May 9, he delivered a lecture in Concord, Massachusetts, that Amos Bronson Alcott, Emerson, and Thoreau attended. Brown reconnoitered with the Secret Six. In June he paid his last visit to his family in North Elba before departing for Harpers Ferry. He stayed one night en route in Hagerstown, Maryland at the Washington House, on West Washington Street. On June 30, 1859, the hotel had at least 25 guests, including I. Smith and Sons, Oliver Smith and Owen Smith, and Jeremiah Anderson, all from New York. From papers found in the Kennedy Farmhouse after the raid, it is known that Brown wrote to Kagi that he would sign into a hotel as I. Smith and Sons.\n\nAs he began recruiting supporters for an attack on slaveholders, Brown was joined by Harriet Tubman, \"General Tubman,\" as he called her. Her knowledge of support networks and resources in the border states of Pennsylvania, Maryland and Delaware was invaluable to Brown and his planners. Some abolitionists, including Frederick Douglass and William Lloyd Garrison, opposed his tactics, but Brown dreamed of fighting to create a new state for freed slaves and made preparations for military action. After he began the first battle, he believed, slaves would rise up and carry out a rebellion across the South.\n\nBrown asked Tubman to gather former slaves then living in present-day Southern Ontario who might be willing to join his fighting force, which she did. He arrived in Harpers Ferry on July 3, 1859. A few days later, under the name Isaac Smith, he rented a farmhouse in nearby Maryland. He awaited the arrival of his recruits. They never materialized in the numbers he expected. In late August he met with Douglass in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, where he revealed the Harpers Ferry plan. Douglass expressed severe reservations, rebuffing Brown's pleas to join the mission. Douglass had known of Brown's plans since early 1859 and had made a number of efforts to discourage blacks from enlisting.\n\nIn late September, the 950 pikes arrived from Charles Blair. Kagi's draft plan called for a brigade of 4,500 men, but Brown had only 21 men (16 white and 5 black: three free blacks, one freed slave, and a fugitive slave). They ranged in age from 21 to 49. Twelve had been with Brown in Kansas raids. On October 16, 1859, Brown (leaving three men behind as a rear guard) led 18 men in an attack on the Harpers Ferry Armory. He had received 200 Beecher's Bibles—breechloading .52 (13.2 mm) caliber Sharps rifles—and pikes from northern abolitionist societies in preparation for the raid. The armory was a large complex of buildings that contained 100,000 muskets and rifles, which Brown planned to seize and use to arm local slaves. They would then head south, drawing off more and more slaves from plantations, and fighting only in self-defense. As Douglass and Brown's family testified, his strategy was essentially to deplete Virginia of its slaves, causing the institution to collapse in one county after another, until the movement spread into the South, wreaking havoc on the economic viability of the pro-slavery states.\n\nInitially, the raid went well, and they met no resistance entering the town. They cut the telegraph wires and easily captured the armory, which was being defended by a single watchman. They next rounded up hostages from nearby farms, including Colonel Lewis Washington, great-grandnephew of George Washington. They also spread the news to the local slaves that their liberation was at hand. Things started to go wrong when an eastbound Baltimore & Ohio train approached the town. The train's baggage master tried to warn the passengers. Brown's men yelled for him to halt and then opened fire. The baggage master, Hayward Shepherd, became the first casualty of Brown's war against slavery. Ironically, Shepherd was a free black man. Two of the hostages' slaves also died in the raid. For some reason, after the shooting of Shepherd, Brown allowed the train to continue on its way.\n\nA.J. Phelps, the Through Express passenger train conductor, sent a telegram to W.P. Smith, Master of Transportation of the B. & O. R. R., Baltimore:\n\nNews of the raid reached Baltimore early that morning and Washington by late morning. In the meantime, local farmers, shopkeepers, and militia pinned down the raiders in the armory by firing from the heights behind the town. Some of the local men were shot by Brown's men. At noon, a company of militia seized the bridge, blocking the only escape route. Brown then moved his prisoners and remaining raiders into the engine house, a small brick building at the armory's entrance. He had the doors and windows barred and loopholes cut through the brick walls. The surrounding forces barraged the engine house, and the men inside fired back with occasional fury. Brown sent his son Watson and another supporter out under a white flag, but the angry crowd shot them. Intermittent shooting then broke out, and Brown's son Oliver was wounded. His son begged his father to kill him and end his suffering, but Brown said \"If you must die, die like a man.\" A few minutes later, Oliver was dead. The exchanges lasted throughout the day.\nBy the morning of October 18 the engine house, later known as John Brown's Fort, was surrounded by a company of U.S. Marines under the command of First Lieutenant Israel Greene, USMC, with Colonel Robert E. Lee of the United States Army in overall command. Army First Lieutenant J. E. B. Stuart approached under a white flag and told the raiders their lives would be spared if they surrendered. Brown refused, saying, \"No, I prefer to die here.\" Stuart then gave a signal. The Marines used sledgehammers and a makeshift battering ram to break down the engine room door. Lieutenant Israel Greene cornered Brown and struck him several times, wounding his head. In three minutes Brown and the survivors were captives.\n\nAltogether Brown's men killed four people, and wounded nine. Ten of Brown's men were killed (including his sons Watson and Oliver). Five escaped (including his son Owen), and seven were captured along with Brown. Among the raiders killed were John Henry Kagi; Lewis Sheridan Leary and Dangerfield Newby; those hanged besides Brown included John Anthony Copeland, Jr. and Shields Green.\n\nBrown and the others captured were held in the office of the armory. On October 18, 1859, Virginia Governor Henry A. Wise, Virginia Senator James M. Mason, and Representative Clement Vallandigham of Ohio arrived in Harpers Ferry. Mason led the three-hour questioning session of Brown.\n\nAlthough the attack had taken place on federal property, Wise ordered that Brown and his men be tried in Virginia in Charles Town, the nearby seat of Jefferson County just seven miles west of Harpers Ferry (perhaps to avert Northern political pressure on the Federal government, or in the unlikely event of a presidential pardon). The trial began October 27, after a doctor pronounced the still-wounded Brown fit for trial. Brown was charged with murdering four whites and a black, conspiring with slaves to rebel, and treason against Virginia. A series of lawyers were assigned to him, including Lawson Botts, Thomas C. Green, Samuel Chilton, a lawyer from Washington D.C., and George Hoyt, but it was Hiram Griswold, a lawyer from Cleveland, Ohio, who concluded the defense on October 31. In his closing statement, Griswold argued that Brown could not be found guilty of treason against a state to which he owed no loyalty and of which he was not a resident, that Brown had not killed anyone himself, and that the raid's failure indicated that Brown had not conspired with slaves. Andrew Hunter, the local district attorney, presented the closing arguments for the prosecution.\n\nOn November 2, after a week-long trial and 45 minutes of deliberation, the Charles Town jury found Brown guilty on all three counts. He was sentenced to be hanged in public on December 2. In response to the sentence, Ralph Waldo Emerson remarked that \"[John Brown] will make the gallows glorious like the Cross.\" Cadets from the Virginia Military Institute under the leadership of General Francis H. Smith and Major Thomas J. Jackson (who earned the nickname \"Stonewall\" less than two years later) were called into service as a security detail in the event Brown's supporters attempted a rescue.\n\nDuring the month before his execution, Brown was allowed to send and receive correspondence. One of the letters was from Mahala Doyle, wife and mother of three of Brown's Kansas victims. She wrote \"Altho' vengeance is not mine, I confess that I do feel gratified to hear that you were stopped in your fiendish career at Harper's Ferry ...\" In a postscript she added \"My son John Doyle whose life I beg[g]ed of you is now grown up and is very desirous to be in Charlestown on the day of your execution.\"\n\nBrown refused to be rescued by Silas Soule, a friend from Kansas who somehow infiltrated the Jefferson County Jail one day and offered to break him out during the night and flee northward to New York state and possibly Canada. Brown supposedly told Silas that, aged 59, he was too old to live a life on the run from the federal authorities as a fugitive and that he was ready to die as a martyr. Silas left him behind to be executed. Many of Brown's letters exuded spirituality and conviction and, when picked up by the northern press, won him more supporters in the North while infuriating many white people in the South. On December 1, Brown's wife arrived by train in Charles Town, where she joined him at the county jail for his last meal. She was denied permission to stay the night, prompting Brown to lose his composure and temper for the only time during the ordeal.\n\nThe Governor of Virginia was so concerned about an attempt to rescue Brown that he halted almost all transportation on the Winchester and Potomac Railroad (north from Charles Town through Harpers Ferry into Maryland) from the day before through the day after the execution (see Winchester and Potomac Railroad#John Brown's raid).\n\nVictor Hugo, from exile on Guernsey, tried to obtain pardon for John Brown: he sent an open letter that was published by the press on both sides of the Atlantic (cf. \"Actes et paroles\"). This text, written at Hauteville-House on December 2, 1859, warned of a possible civil war:\n\nThe letter was initially published in the \"London News\" and was widely reprinted. After Brown's execution, Hugo wrote a number of additional letters about Brown and the abolitionist cause.\n\nAbolitionists in the United States saw Hugo's writings as evidence of international support for the anti-slavery cause. The most widely publicized commentary on Brown to reach America from Europe was an 1861 pamphlet, \"John Brown par Victor Hugo\", that included a brief biography and reprinted two letters by Hugo, including that of December 9, 1859. The pamphlet's frontispiece was an engraving of a hanged man by Hugo that became widely associated with the execution.\n\nOn the morning of December 2, 1859, Brown wrote:\n\nI, John Brown, am now quite certain that the crimes of this guilty land will never be purged away but with blood. I had, as I now think, vainly flattered myself that without very much bloodshed it might be done.\n\nHe read his Bible and wrote a final letter to his wife, which included his will. At 11:00 a.m. he was escorted from the county jail through a crowd of 2,000 soldiers a few blocks away to a small field where the gallows were. Among the soldiers in the crowd were future Confederate general Stonewall Jackson and John Wilkes Booth (the latter borrowing a militia uniform to gain admission to the execution). The poet Walt Whitman, in \"Year of Meteors\", described viewing the execution.\n\nBrown was accompanied by the sheriff and his assistants, but no minister since he had consistently rejected the ministrations of pro-slavery clergy. Since the region was in the grips of virtual hysteria, most northerners, including journalists, were run out of town, and it is unlikely any anti-slavery clergyman would have been safe, even if one were to have sought to visit Brown. He elected to receive no religious services in the jail or at the scaffold. He was hanged at 11:15 a.m. and pronounced dead at 11:50 a.m.\n\nBrown's body was placed in a wooden coffin with the noose still around his neck. His coffin was then put on a train to take it away from Virginia to his family homestead in New York for burial. His body was supposed to be embalmed in Philadelphia, through which the train would pass. However, because of demonstrations expected from both sides — there were many Southern pro-slavery medical students in Philadelphia — Mayor Alexander Henry \"made a fake casket, covered with flowers and flags which was carefully lifted from the coach and the train and sped onward in its destination ... In reality the train carrying Brown's body never actually stopped in Philadelphia, and thus violence was averted by a 'sham coffin.'\" As a direct result, many Southern medical students and professors left Philadelphia \"en masse\" on December 21, 1859, for Southern medical schools, never to return.\n\nIn the North, large memorial meetings took place, church bells rang, minute guns were fired, and famous writers such as Emerson and Thoreau joined many Northerners in praising Brown.\n\nOn December 14, 1859, the U.S. Senate appointed a bipartisan committee to investigate the Harpers Ferry raid and to determine whether any citizens contributed arms, ammunition or money to John Brown's men. The Democrats attempted to implicate the Republicans in the raid; the Republicans tried to disassociate themselves from Brown and his acts.\n\nThe Senate committee heard testimony from 32 witnesses, including Liam Dodson, one of the surviving abolitionists. The report, authored by chairman James Murray Mason, a pro-slavery Democrat from Virginia, was published in June 1860. It found no direct evidence of a conspiracy, but implied that the raid was a result of Republican doctrines. The two committee Republicans published a minority report, but were apparently more concerned about denying Northern culpability than clarifying the nature of Brown's efforts. Republicans such as Abraham Lincoln rejected any connection with the raid, calling Brown \"insane\".\n\nThe investigation was performed in a tense environment in both houses of Congress. One senator wrote to his wife that \"The members on both sides are mostly armed with deadly weapons and it is said that the friends of each are armed in the galleries.\" After a heated exchange of insults, a Mississippian attacked Thaddeus Stevens of Pennsylvania with a Bowie knife in the House of Representatives. Stevens' friends prevented a fight.\n\nThe Senate committee was very cautious in its questions of two of Brown's backers, Samuel Howe and George Stearns, out of fear of stoking violence. Howe and Stearns later said that the questions were asked in a manner that permitted them to give honest answers without implicating themselves. Civil War historian James M. McPherson stated that \"A historian reading their testimony, however, will be convinced that they told several falsehoods.\"\n\nThe raid on Harpers Ferry is generally thought to have done much to set the nation on a course toward civil war. Southern slaveowners, hearing initial reports that hundreds of abolitionists were involved, were relieved the effort was so small, but feared other abolitionists would emulate Brown and attempt to lead slave rebellions. Therefore, the South reorganized the decrepit militia system. These militias, well-established by 1861, became a ready-made Confederate army, making the South better prepared for war.\n\nSouthern Democrats charged that Brown's raid was an inevitable consequence of the Republican Party's political platform, which they associated with abolitionism. In light of the upcoming elections in November 1860, the Republicans tried to distance themselves as much as possible from Brown, condemning the raid and dismissing its leader as an insane fanatic. As one historian explains, Brown was successful in polarizing politics: \"Brown's raid succeeded brilliantly. It drove a wedge through the already tentative and fragile Opposition-Republican coalition and helped to intensify the sectional polarization that soon tore the Democratic party and the Union apart.\"\n\nMany abolitionists in the North viewed Brown as a martyr, sacrificed for the sins of the nation. Immediately after the raid, William Lloyd Garrison published a column in \"The Liberator\", judging Brown's raid \"well-intended but sadly misguided\" and \"wild and futile\". But he defended Brown's character from detractors in the Northern and Southern press and argued that those who supported the principles of the American Revolution could not consistently oppose Brown's raid. On the day Brown was hanged, Garrison reiterated the point in Boston: \"whenever commenced, I cannot but wish success to all slave insurrections\".\n\nAfter the Civil War, Frederick Douglass wrote, \"His zeal in the cause of my race was far greater than mine—it was as the burning sun to my taper light—mine was bounded by time, his stretched away to the boundless shores of eternity. I could live for the slave, but he could die for him.\"\n\n\nThe Greatest Sacriﬁce / Prelude to Gettysburg\n\nMany black leaders of the timeMartin Delany, Henry Highland Garnet, Frederick Douglass, Harriet Tubmanknew and respected Brown, and black businesses across the North closed on the day of his execution. Shortly after Brown's death, Victor Hugo predicted it \"would open a latent fissure that will finally split the Union asunder,\" and many poets responded to the event. In 1863 Julia Ward Howe wrote the popular hymn the Battle Hymn of the Republic to the tune of \"John Brown's body\", which included a line \"As He died to make men holy, let us die to make men free\", analogizing Brown's sacrifice to that of Jesus Christ.\n\nWriters continue to vigorously debate Brown's personality, sanity, motivations, morality, and relation to abolitionism. In his posthumous The Impending Crisis, 1848-1861 (1976), David Potter argued that the emotional effect of Brown's raid exceeded the philosophical effect of the Lincoln–Douglas debates, and reaffirmed a deep division between North and South. Malcolm X said that white people could not join his black nationalist Organization of Afro-American Unity, but \"if John Brown were still alive, we might accept him.\"\n\nSome writers describe Brown as a monomaniacal zealot, others as a hero. In 1931, the United Daughters of the Confederacy and Sons of Confederate Veterans erected a counter-monument, to Heyward Shepherd, the free black man who became the first fatality of the Harpers Ferry raid, claiming him \"representative of Negroes of the neighborhood, who would not take part.\" By the mid-20th century, some scholars were fairly convinced that Brown was a fanatic and killer, while some African Americans sustained a positive view of him. Journalist Richard Owen Boyer considered Brown \"an American who gave his life that millions of other Americans might be free\", and others held similarly positive views.\n\nSeveral 21st-century works about Brown are notable for the absence of hostility that characterized similar works a century earlier (when Lincoln's anti-slavery views were de-emphasized). Journalist and documentary writer Ken Chowder considers Brown \"stubborn ... egoistical, self-righteous, and sometimes deceitful; yet ... at certain times, a great man\" and argues that Brown has been adopted by both the left and right, and his actions \"spun\" to fit the world view of the spinner at various times in American history. Toledo (2002), Peterson (2002), DeCaro (2002, 2007), Reynolds (2005), and Carton (2006) are critically appreciative of Brown's history, far from the opinions of earlier writers. The shift to an appreciative perspective moves many white historians toward the view long held by black scholars such as W. E. B. Du Bois, Benjamin Quarles, and Lerone Bennett, Jr.\n\nAs the U.S. distanced itself from the anti-slavery cause and imposition of \"martial law\" in the South during Congressional Reconstruction, the historical view of Brown changed. In the 1880s, Brown's detractors—some of them contemporaries now embarrassed by their former fervent abolitionism—began to produce virulent exposés, particularly emphasizing the Pottawatomie killings of 1856. Historian James Loewen surveyed American history textbooks circa 1995 and noted that until about 1890, historians considered Brown perfectly sane, but from about 1890 until 1970, he was generally portrayed as insane.\n\nAlthough Oswald Garrison Villard's 1910 biography of Brown was thought to be friendly (Villard being the grandson of abolitionist Garrison), he also added fuel to the anti-Brown fire by criticizing him as a muddled, pugnacious, bumbling, and homicidal madman. Villard himself was a pacifist and admired Brown in many respects, but his interpretation of the facts provided a paradigm for later anti-Brown writers. Similarly, a 1923 textbook stated, \"the farther we getaway from the excitement of 1859 the more we are disposed to consider this extraordinary man the victim of mental delusions.\"\n\nIn 1978, NYU historian Albert Fried concluded that historians who portrayed Brown as a dysfunctional figure are \"really informing me of their predilections, their judgment of the historical event, their identification with the moderates and opposition to the 'extremists.'\" This view of Brown has come to prevail in academic writing as well as in journalism. Biographer Louis DeCaro Jr. wrote in 2007, \"there is no consensus of fairness with respect to Brown in either the academy or the media.\" More recent portrayals of Brown as another Timothy McVeigh or Osama bin Laden may still reflect the same bias Fried discussed a generation ago.\n\n\n\nThe two most noted screen portrayals of Brown were both given by actor Raymond Massey. The 1940 film \"Santa Fe Trail\", starring Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland, depicted Brown completely unsympathetically as an out-and-out villainous madman; Massey added to that impression by playing him with a constant, wild-eyed stare. The film gave the impression that it did not oppose slavery, even to the point of having a Black \"mammy\" character say, after an especially fierce battle, \"Mr. Brown done promised us freedom, but ... if this is freedom, I don't want no part of it\". Massey portrayed Brown again in the little-known, low-budget \"Seven Angry Men\", in which he was not only the main character, but depicted in a much more restrained, sympathetic way. Massey along with Tyrone Power and Judith Anderson starred in the acclaimed 1953 dramatic reading of Stephen Vincent Benet's epic Pulitzer Prize-winning poem \"John Brown's Body\" (1928). Three actors in formal dress recited and acted in a two-hour presentation of the poem. The production toured 60 cities in 28 states.\nIn 1938–40, American painter John Steuart Curry painted \"Tragic Prelude\" (\"left\"), a mural of Brown holding a gun and a Bible, in the Kansas State Capitol in Topeka. In 1941, Jacob Lawrence illustrated Brown's life in \"The Legend of John Brown\", a series of 22 gouache paintings. By 1977, these were in such fragile condition that they could not be displayed, and the Detroit Institute of Arts had to commission Lawrence to recreate the series as silkscreen prints. The result was a limited-edition portfolio of 22 hand-screened prints, published with a poem, \"John Brown\" by Robert Hayden, commissioned specifically for the project. Though Brown had been a popular topic for many painters, \"The Legend of John Brown\" was the first series to explore his legacy from an African American perspective. Paintings such as Hovenden's \"The Last Moments of John Brown\" immortalize an apocryphal story in which a Black woman offers the condemned Brown her baby to kiss on his way to the gallows. It was probably a tale invented by journalist James Redpath.\n\nBrown has also been the subject of several works of literature. Numerous American poets have written poems about him, including John Greenleaf Whittier, Louisa May Alcott, and Walt Whitman. The Polish poet Cyprian Kamil Norwid wrote two poems praising Brown: \"John Brown\" and the better known \"Do obywatela Johna Brown\" (\"To Citizen John Brown\"). \"Marching Song\" (1932) is an unpublished play about the legend of John Brown by Orson Welles. Russell Banks's 1998 biographical novel about Brown, \"Cloudsplitter\", was a Pulitzer Prize finalist. It is narrated by Brown's surviving son Owen. James McBride's 2013 novel \"The Good Lord Bird\" tells Brown's story through the eyes of a young slave, Henry Shackleford, who accompanies Brown to Harpers Ferry. The novel won the 2013 National Book Award for Fiction.\n\nThe connection between John Brown's life and many of the slave uprisings in the Caribbean was clear from the outset. Brown was born during the period of the Haitian Revolution, which saw Haitian slaves revolting against the French. The role the revolution played in helping to formulate Brown's abolitionist views directly is not clear; however, the revolution had an obvious effect on the general view towards slavery in the northern United States. As W.E.B. Du Bois notes, the involvement of slaves in the American Revolutions, as well as the \"upheaval in Hayti, and the new enthusiasm for human rights, led to a wave of emancipation which started in Vermont ... swept through New England and Pennsylvania, ending finally in New York and New Jersey.\" This changed sentiment, which occurred during the late 18th and early 19th century, undoubtedly had a role in creating Brown's abolitionist opinion, during his upbringing.\n\nThe 1839 slave insurrection aboard the Spanish ship \"La Amistad\", off the coast of Cuba, provides a poignant example of John Brown's support and appeal towards Caribbean slave revolts. On \"La Amistad\", Joseph Cinqué and approximately 50 other slaves captured the ship, slated to transport them from Havana to Puerto Príncipe, Cuba in July 1839, and attempted to return to Africa. However, through trickery, the ship ended up in the United States, where Cinque and his men stood trial. Ultimately, the courts acquitted the men because at the time the international slave trade was illegal in the United States. According to Brown's daughter, \"Turner and Cinque stood first in esteem\" among Brown's black heroes. Furthermore, she noted Brown's \"admiration of Cinques' character and management in carrying his points with so little bloodshed!\" In 1850, Brown would refer affectionately to the revolt, in saying \"Nothing so charms the American people as personal bravery. Witness the case of Cinques, of everlasting memory, on board the 'Amistad.'\" The slave revolts of the Caribbean had a clear and important impact on Brown's views toward slavery and his staunch support of the most severe forms of abolitionism. However, this is not the most important part of the many revolts' legacy of influencing Brown.\n\nThe specific knowledge John Brown gained from the tactics employed in the Haitian Revolution, and other Caribbean revolts, was of paramount importance when Brown turned his sights to the federal arsenal at Harpers Ferry, Virginia. As Brown's cohort Richard Realf explained to a committee of the 36th Congress, \"he had posted himself in relation to the wars of Toussaint L'Ouverture ... he had become thoroughly acquainted with the wars in Hayti and the islands round about.\" By studying the slave revolts of the Caribbean region, Brown learned a great deal about how to properly conduct guerilla warfare. A key element to the prolonged success of this warfare was the establishment of maroon communities, which are essentially colonies of runaway slaves. As a contemporary article notes, Brown would use these establishments to \"retreat from and evade attacks he could not overcome. He would maintain and prolong a guerilla war, of which ... Haiti afforded\" an example.\n\nThe idea of creating maroon communities was the impetus for the creation of John Brown's \"Provisional Constitution and Ordinances for the People of the United States,\" which helped to detail how such communities would be governed. However, the idea of maroon colonies of slaves is not an idea exclusive to the Caribbean region. In fact, maroon communities riddled the southern United States between the mid-1600s and 1864, especially the Great Dismal Swamp region of Virginia and North Carolina. Similar to the Haitian Revolution, the Seminole Wars, fought in modern-day Florida, saw the involvement of maroon communities, which although outnumbered by native allies were more effective fighters.\n\nAlthough the maroon colonies of North America undoubtedly had an effect on John Brown's plan, their impact paled in comparison to that of the maroon communities in places like Haiti, Jamaica, and Surinam. Accounts by Brown's friends and cohorts prove this idea. Richard Realf, a cohort of Brown in Kansas, noted that Brown not only studied the slave revolts in the Caribbean, but focused more specifically on the maroons of Jamaica and those involved in Haiti's liberation. Brown's friend Richard Hinton similarly noted that Brown knew \"by heart\" the occurrences in Jamaica and Haiti. Thomas Wentworth Higginson, a cohort of Brown's and a member of the Secret Six, stated that Brown's plan involved getting \"together bands and families of fugitive slaves\" and \"establish them permanently in those [mountain] fastnesses, like the Maroons of Jamaica and Surinam.\" Brown had planned for the maroon colonies established to be \"durable,\" and thus able to endure over a prolonged period of war.\n\nThe similarities between John Brown's attempted insurrection and the Haitian Revolution, in both methods, motivations, and resolve, is still seen today as the main avenue in Haiti's capital Port-au-Prince is still named for Brown as a sign of solidarity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33832771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33832771", "title": "Journal of Asian and African Studies", "text": "Journal of Asian and African Studies\n\nThe Journal of Asian and African Studies is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers research in the fields of Asian and African studies. The journal's editor-in-chief is Nigel C. Gibson (Emerson College). It was established in 1966 and is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\nThe \"Journal of Asian and African Studies\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "4575127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4575127", "title": "Kenneth Clatterbaugh", "text": "Kenneth Clatterbaugh\n\nKenneth C. Clatterbaugh is an American philosopher. He was Chair of the department of Philosophy at the University of Washington for fifteen years. He retired in 2012. His interests are modern philosophy, social philosophy, and gender studies, philosophy of religion. His latest book is a satirical look at some aspects of American Christianity. It is a novel, not an academic book although it contains considerable philosophical argument.\n\nHe received his Ph.D. from Indiana University in 1967.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29626245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29626245", "title": "Kicking a Dead Horse", "text": "Kicking a Dead Horse\n\nKicking a Dead Horse (2007) is an American play written by Sam Shepard. It is an example of a dramatic monologue for one man for most of the play, until a woman shows up, in all lasting approximately 80 minutes.\n\nHobart Struther's voyage is interrupted by the death of his horse in a desert. Out of frustration, he kicks it. He stands trying to figure out what to do. Struther made millions by buying cheap paintings and reselling them. In a midlife crisis, he has abandoned his wife and rich life for a trip to understand himself. The former art dealer laments his condition. He must bury the horse. This proves to be very difficult. Next he debates different facets of his personality and life, looking as he mentions several times for authenticity, until every angle seems doomed to failure.\n\n\"Kicking a Dead Horse\" premiered at the Abbey Theatre of Dublin in 2007, starring the Irish actor Stephen Rea, and then with the same actor at New York's The Public Theater and the Almeida Theatre in London in 2008.\n\nThe New York production was directed by Sam Shepard, with sets by Brien Vahey costumes by Joan Bergin, lighting by John Comiskey, sound by Dan Moses Schreier; the production stage manager was Barbara Reo, general manager, Nicki Genovese, associate artistic director, Mandy Hackett, associate producer, Jenny Gersten, director of production, Ruth E. Sternberg, presented by the Public Theater, Oskar Eustis, artistic director,\n\n\"Kicking a Dead Horse\" is published by Vintage Books, 2008, , \n\nThe New York Times theatre review pointed out that the bleak landscape is reminiscent of the Theatre of the Absurd, particularly Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot and Happy Days (play). The first images of the Shepard play are said to be striking, but there is little development.\n\n"}
{"id": "419489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419489", "title": "Le Morte d'Arthur", "text": "Le Morte d'Arthur\n\n\"Le Morte d'Arthur\" was first published in 1485 by William Caxton and is today one of the best-known works of Arthurian literature in English. Until the discovery of the Winchester Manuscript in 1934, the 1485 edition was considered the earliest known text of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" and that closest to Malory's translation and compilation. Various modern editions are inevitably variable, changing a variety of spelling, grammar, and/or pronouns for the convenience of readers of modern English. Many modern Arthurian writers have used Malory as their principal source.\n\nThe exact identity of the author of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" has long been the subject of speculation, owing to the fact that at least six historical figures bore the name of \"Sir Thomas Malory\" in the late 15th century. In the work the author describes himself as \"Knyght presoner Thomas Malleorre\" (\"Sir Thomas Maleore\" according to the publisher William Caxton). This is taken as supporting evidence for the identification most widely accepted by scholars: that the author was the Thomas Malory born in the year 1416, to Sir John Malory of Newbold Revel, Warwickshire.\n\nSir Thomas inherited the family estate in 1434, but by 1450 he was fully engaged in a life of crime. As early as 1433 he had been accused of theft, but the more serious allegations against him were that of the attempted murder of Humphrey Stafford, 1st Duke of Buckingham, an accusation of at least two rapes, and that he had attacked and robbed Coombe Abbey. Malory was first arrested and imprisoned in 1451 for the ambush of Buckingham, but was released early in 1452. By March he was back in the Marshalsea prison and then in Colchester, escaping on at least two occasions. In 1461 he was granted a pardon by Henry VI, returning to live at his estate.\n\nAlthough originally allied to the House of York, after his release Malory changed his allegiance to the House of Lancaster. This led to him being imprisoned yet again in 1468 when he led an ill-fated plot to overthrow Edward IV. It was during this final stint at Newgate Prison in London that he is believed to have written \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". Malory was released in October, 1470 when Henry VI came to the throne, but died only five months later.\n\nElizabeth Bryan speaks of Malory's contribution to Arthurian legend in her introduction to \"Le Morte d'Arthur\": \"Malory did not invent the stories in this collection; he translated and compiled them... Malory in fact translated Arthurian stories that already existed in thirteenth-century French prose (the so-called Old French Vulgate romances) and compiled them together with at least one tale from Middle English sources (the Alliterative \"Morte Arthure\" and the Stanzaic \"Morte Arthur\") to create this text.\"\n\nMalory called the full work \"The Hoole Book of Kyng Arthur and of His Noble Knyghtes of The Rounde Table\", but William Caxton instead titled it with Malory's name for the final section of the cycle. Modernized editions update the late Middle English spelling, update some pronouns, and re-punctuate and re-paragraph the text. Others furthermore update the phrasing and vocabulary to contemporary Modern English. Here is an example (from Caxton's preface) in Middle English and then in Modern English:\n\nThe Middle English of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" is much closer to Early Modern English than the Middle English of Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\". If the spelling is modernized, it reads almost like Elizabethan English.\n\nThe first printing of Malory's work was made by Caxton in 1485. Only two copies of this original printing are known to exist, in the collections of the Morgan Library & Museum in New York and the John Rylands Library in Manchester. It proved popular and was reprinted in 1498 and 1529 with some additions and changes by Wynkyn de Worde who succeeded Caxton's press. Three more editions were published before the English Civil War: William Copland's (1557), Thomas East's (1585), and William Stansby's (1634), each of which contained additional changes and errors (including the omission of an entire leaf). Thereafter, the book went out of fashion until the Romantic revival of interest in all things medieval; the year 1816 saw a new edition by Walker and Edwards, and another one by Wilks, both based on the 1634 Stansby edition. Davison's 1817 edition was promoted by Robert Southey and was based on Caxton's 1485 edition or on a mixture of Caxton and Stansby. Davison was the basis for subsequent editions until the discovery of the Winchester Manuscript.\n\nCaxton separated Malory's eight books into 21 books; subdivided each book into a total of 507 chapters; added a summary of each chapter and added a colophon to the entire book. Malory's eight tales are:\n\nMost of the events in the book take place in Britain and France at an unspecified time. (The historical events on which the legend is based took place in the late 5th century, but the story contains many anachronisms and makes no effort at historical accuracy.) In some parts, the story ventures farther afield, to Rome and Sarras (near Babylon), and recalls Biblical tales from the ancient Near East.\n\nWinchester College headmaster W. F. Oakeshott discovered a previously unknown manuscript copy of the work in June 1934, during the cataloging of the college's library. Newspaper accounts announced that what Caxton had published in 1485 was not exactly what Malory had written. Oakeshott published \"The Finding of the Manuscript\" in 1963, chronicling the initial event and his realization that \"this indeed was Malory,\" with \"startling evidence of revision\" in the Caxton edition. It is hypothesized that Caxton's text and the Winchester manuscript are both derived from an earlier copy. (Having said this, microscopic examination revealed that ink smudges on the Winchester manuscript are offsets of newly printed pages set in Caxton's own font, which indicates that the Winchester Manuscript was in Caxton's print shop. The \"Winchester Manuscript\" is believed to be closer on the whole to Malory's original. In addition, it does not have the book and chapter divisions for which Caxton takes credit in his preface.\n\nMalory scholar Eugène Vinaver examined the manuscript shortly after its discovery. Oakeshott was encouraged to produce an edition himself, but he ceded the project to Vinaver. Based on his initial study of the manuscript, Oakeshott concluded in 1935 that the copy from which Caxton printed his edition \"was already subdivided into books and sections.\" Vinaver made an exhaustive comparison of the manuscript with Caxton's edition and reached similar conclusions. In his 1947 publication of \"The Works of Sir Thomas Malory\", he argued that Malory did not write a single book, but rather a series of Arthurian tales, each of which is an internally consistent and independent work. However, scholars (including William Matthews) pointed out that Malory's later tales make frequent references back to the earlier events, suggesting that he had wanted the tales to cohere better but had not sufficiently revised the whole text to achieve this.\n\nThe Winchester manuscript has been digitised by a Japanese team, who note that \"the text is imperfect, as the manuscript lacks the first and last quires and few leaves. The most striking feature of the manuscript is the extensive use of red ink.\"\n\nThe publication of Chaucer's work by William Caxton was a precursor to his publication of Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". Where the \"Canterbury Tales\" are in Middle English, Malory extends \"one hand to Chaucer, and one to Spenser\" constructing a manuscript which is hard to place in one category. Like other English prose in the 15th century, \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" was highly influenced by French writings, but Malory blends these with other English verse and prose forms. Although Malory hearkens back to an age of idealized knighthood, jousting tournaments, and grand castles to suggest a medieval world, his stories lack any agricultural life, or commerce which makes the story feel as if it were an era of its own.\n\nBecause there is so much lengthy ground to cover, Malory uses \"so—and—then,\" often to transition his retelling. This repetition is not redundant, but adds an air of continuity only befitting the story's scale and grandeur. The stories then become episodes instead of instances that can stand on their own.\n\nThere is an artful way in which Malory portrays Arthur by revealing him to the readers only by how others are affected by his actions. This creates a man whom we cannot define, but still stands as the center of the legend, and lets our mind move from him to the scenes around him. The forms of romantic characters used in order to create the world of Arthur and the Round Table, \"consist almost entirely of fighting men, their wives or mistresses, with an occasional clerk or an enchanter, a fairy or a fiend, a giant or a dwarf,\" and \"time does not work on the heroes of Malory.\"\n\nArthur is born to Uther Pendragon and Igraine and then taken by Sir Ector to be fostered in the country. He later becomes the king of a leaderless Britain when he removes the fated sword from the stone. Arthur goes on to win many battles due to his military prowess and Merlin's counsel. He then consolidates his kingdom.\n\nThis first book also tells \"The Tale of Balyn and Balan\", which ends in accidental fratricide, and the begetting of Mordred, Arthur's incestuous son by his half-sister, Morgause (though Arthur did not know her as his half-sister). On Merlin's advice, and reminiscent of the Massacre of the Innocents, Arthur takes every newborn boy in his kingdom and sends them to sea in a boat. The boat crashes and all but Mordred, who later kills his father, perish (this is mentioned matter-of-fact, with no apparent moral overtone). Arthur marries Guinevere, and inherits the Round Table from her father Leodegrance. At Pentecost, Arthur gathers his knights at Camelot and establishes the Round Table company. All swear to the Pentecostal Oath as a guide for knightly conduct.\n\nThis book, detailing Arthur's march on Rome, is heavily based on the Middle English Alliterative \"Morte Arthure\", which in turn is heavily based on Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\". The opening of Book V finds Arthur and his kingdom without an enemy. His throne is secure, his knights have proven themselves through a series of quests, Sir Lancelot and Sir Tristan have arrived and the court is feasting. When envoys from Emperor Lucius of Rome arrive and accuse Arthur of refusing tribute, \"contrary to the statutes and decrees made by the noble and worthy Julius Caesar\", Arthur and his knights are stirring for a fight. They are \"many days rested\" and excited, \"for now shall we have warre and worshype.\" Arthur invokes the lineage of Ser Belyne and Sir Bryne, legendary British conquerors of Rome, and through their blood lineage demands tribute from Lucius under the argument that Britain conquered Rome first. Lucius, apprised of the situation by his envoys, raises a heathen army of the East, composed of Spaniards and Saracens, as well as other enemies of the Christian world. Rome is supposed to be the seat of Christianity, but it is more foreign and corrupt than the courts of Arthur and his allies. \n\nDeparting from Geoffrey of Monmouth's history in which Mordred is left in charge, Malory's Arthur leaves his court in the hands of Sir Constantine of Cornwall and an advisor. Arthur sails to Normandy to meet his cousin Hoel, but he finds a giant terrorizing the people from the holy island of Mont St. Michel. Arthur battles him alone, an act of public relations intended to inspire his knights. The giant dies after Arthur \"swappis his genytrottys in sondir\" and \"kut his baly in sundir, that oute wente the gore.\" Arthur then fights Lucius and his armies defeat the Romans. He is crowned Emperor, a proxy government is arranged for the Roman Empire and Arthur returns to London where his queen welcomes him royally.\n\nIn this tale, Malory establishes Lancelot as King Arthur's most revered knight. Among Lancelot's numerous episodic adventures include being enchanted into a deep sleep by the four sorceresses including Morgan le Fay and Sebile and having to escape from their castle, proving victorious in a tournament fighting on behalf of King Bagdemagus, slaying the mighty Sir Turquine who had been holding several of Arthur's knights prisoner, and also overcoming the betrayal of a damsel to defend himself unarmed against Sir Phelot.\n\nThe tale of Sir Gareth begins with his arrival at court as \"le bel inconnu\", or the fair unknown. He comes without a name and therefore without a past. Sir Kay mockingly calls the unknown young man \"Beaumains\" and treats him with contempt and condescension. An unknown woman, later revealed to be the Dame Lynette, eventually comes to court asking for assistance against the Red Knight of the Red Lands, and Gareth takes up the quest. On his quest, he encounters the Black, Green, Red, and Blue knights and the Red knight of the Red Lands. He kills the Black Knight, incorporates the others into Arthur's court, and rescues Lynette's sister Lyonesse. Lustily in love with Lyonesse, Gareth conspires to consummate their relationship before marrying. Only by the magical intervention of Lynette is their tryst unsuccessful, thus preserving Gareth's virginity and, presumably, his standing with God. Gareth later counsels Lyonesse to report to King Arthur and pretend she doesn't know where he is; instead, he tells her to announce a tournament of his knights against the Round Table. This allows Gareth to disguise himself and win honor by defeating his brother knights. The heralds eventually acknowledge that he is Sir Gareth right as he strikes down Sir Gawain, his brother. The book ends with Gareth rejoining his fellow knights and marrying Lyonesse.\n\nIn Book IV, there are only two knights that have ever held against Sir Lancelot in tournament: Tristan and Gareth. This was always under conditions where one or both parties were unknown by the other, for these knights loved each other \"passingly well.\" Gareth was knighted by Lancelot himself when he took upon him the adventure on behalf of Dame Lynette. Much later, Gareth is accidentally slain by his beloved Lancelot when Guinevere is rescued from being burnt at the stake by King Arthur.\n\nIn \"The Fyrste and the Secunde Boke of Syr Trystrams de Lyones\", Malory tells the tales of Sir Tristan (Trystram), Sir Dinadan, Sir Palamedes, Sir La Cote de Male Tayle, Sir Alexander, and a variety of other knights. Based on the French Prose \"Tristan\", or a lost English adaptation of it, Malory's Tristan section is the literal centerpiece of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" as well as the longest of the eight books.\n\nThe book is rife with adultery, characterized most visibly in Sir Tristan and the Belle Isolde. However, it should be noted that Sir Tristan had met and fallen in love with Isolde earlier, and that his uncle, King Mark, jealous of Tristan and seeking to undermine him, appears to seek marriage to Isolde for just such a hateful purpose, going so far as to ask Tristan to go and seek her hand on his behalf (which Tristan, understanding that to be his knightly duty, does). Sir Tristan is the namesake of the book and his adulterous relationship with Isolde, his uncle King Mark's wife, is one of the focuses of the section. Other knights, even knights of the Round Table, make requests that show the dark side of the world of chivalry. In one episode, Sir Bleoberis, one of Lancelot's cousins, claims another knight's wife for his own and rides away with her until stopped by Sir Tristan. In another, when Tristan defeats Sir Blamore, another knight of the Round Table, Blamore asks Tristan to kill him because he would rather die than have his reputation tarnished by the defeat.\n\nOf all the knights, Tristan most resembles Lancelot. He loves a queen, the wife of another. Tristan is even considered to be as strong and able a knight as Lancelot, although they become beloved friends. Because of King Mark's treacherous behavior, Tristan takes Isolde from him and lives with her for some time, but he then returns Isolde to him. Nonetheless, Mark kills Tristan while he is \"harping\" (Tristan is noted in the book as one of the greatest of musicians and falconers).\n\nMalory's primary source for \"The Noble Tale of the Sangreal\" is the French Vulgate Cycle's \"La Queste Del Saint Graal\". Malory's version chronicles the adventures of numerous knights in their quest to achieve the Holy Grail. The Grail first appears in the hall of King Arthur \" with samyte,\" and it miraculously produces meat and drink for the knights. Gawain is the first to declare that he \"shall laboure in the Queste of the Sankgreall.\" He embarks on the quest in order to see the Grail \"more opynly than hit hath bene shewed\" before, and to gain more \"metys and drynkes.\" Likewise, Lancelot, Percival, Bors, and Galahad undergo the quest. Their exploits are intermingled with encounters with maidens and hermits who offer advice and interpret dreams along the way.\n\nAt the beginning of the book \"Sir Launcelot and Queene Gwenyvere\", Malory tells his readers that the pair started behaving carelessly in public, stating that \"Launcelot began to resort unto the Queene Guinevere again and forget the promise and the perfection that he made in the Quest... and so they loved together more hotter than they did beforehand.\" They indulged in \"privy draughts together\" and behaved in such a way that \"many in the court spoke of it\" (Cooper, 402).\n\nThis book also includes the \"knight of the cart\" episode, where Maleagant kidnapped Guinevere and her unarmed knights and held them prisoner in his castle. After Maleagant's archers killed his horse, Lancelot had to ride to the castle in a cart in order to save the queen. Knowing Lancelot was on his way, Maleagant pleaded to Guinevere for mercy, which she granted and then forced Lancelot to stifle his rage against Maleagant.\n\nIn this same book Malory mentions Lancelot and Guinevere's adultery. Malory says, \"So, to passe upon this tale, Sir Launcelot wente to bedde with the Quene and toke no force of his hurte honed, but toke his plesaunce and hys lyknge untyll hit was the dawning of the day\" (Cooper, 633). Sir Maleagant, upon finding blood in Guinevere's bed, was so convinced of her unfaithfulness to Arthur that he was willing to fight in an attempt to prove it to others. After Guinevere made it known that she wanted Maleagant dead, Lancelot killed him even though Maleagant begged for mercy (but only after Maleagant agreed to continue fighting with Lancelot's helmet removed, his left side body armor removed, and his left hand tied behind his back—Lancelot felt it necessary to finish the bout, but would not slay Maleagant unless Maleagant agreed to continue fighting). The book ends with Lancelot's healing of Sir Urry of Hungary, where Malory notes that Lancelot is the only knight out of hundreds to succeed in this endeavor.\n\nMordred and Agravaine have been scheming to uncover Lancelot and Guinevere's adultery for quite some time. When they find an opportune moment to finally and concretely reveal the adulterous relationship, Lancelot kills Agravaine and several others and escapes. Arthur is forced to sentence Guinevere to burn at the stake, and orders his surviving nephews, Gawain, Mordred, Gareth, and Gaheris, to guard the scene, knowing Lancelot will attempt a rescue. Gawain flatly refuses to be part of any act that will treat the queen shamefully. His younger brothers, Gaheris and Gareth, unable to deny the king's request that they escort Guinevere to the stake to be burnt, advise that they will do so at his command, but they will not arm themselves. When Lancelot's party raids the execution, many knights are killed, including, by accident, Gareth and Gaheris. Gawain, bent on revenge for their deaths, prompts Arthur into a war with Lancelot, first at his castle in northern Britain. At this point the Pope steps in and issues a bull to end the violence between Arthur's and Lancelot's factions. Shortly thereafter, Arthur pursues Lancelot to his home in France to continue the fight. Gawain twice challenges Lancelot to a duel, but each time loses and asks Lancelot to kill him; Lancelot refuses and grants him mercy before leaving.\n\nArthur receives a message that Mordred, whom he had left in charge back in Britain, has usurped his throne, and he leads his forces back home. In the invasion Gawain is mortally injured, and writes to Lancelot, asking for his help against Mordred, and for forgiveness for separating the Round Table. In a dream, the departed Gawain tells Arthur to wait thirty days for Lancelot to return to Britain before fighting Mordred, and Arthur sends Lucan and Bedivere to make a temporary peace treaty. At the exchange, an unnamed knight draws his sword to kill an adder. The other knights construe this as treachery and a declaration of war. Seeing no other recourse, at the Battle of Camlann, Arthur charges Mordred and impales him with a spear. But with the last of his strength, Mordred impales himself even further, so as to come within striking distance of King Arthur, then gives a mortal blow to Arthur's head.\n\nAs he was dying, Arthur commands Bedivere to cast his sword Excalibur into the lake. Bedivere initially does not throw the sword in the lake, but instead hides it behind a tree. He confesses his reluctance to Arthur, then returns to the lake and throws in his own sword instead of Excalibur. Bedivere once again relays his disobedience to Arthur, who requests the sword be returned to the lake for a third time. When Bedivere finally throws Excalibur back in the lake, it is retrieved by the hand of the Lady of the Lake. The hand shakes the sword three times and then vanishes back into the water. A barge appears, carrying ladies in black hoods (one being Morgan), who take Arthur to the Isle of Avalon.\n\nAfter the passing of King Arthur, Malory provides a denouement, mostly following the lives (and deaths) of Guinevere, Lancelot, and Lancelot's kinsmen. When Lancelot returns to Dover, he mourns the deaths of his comrades. Lancelot travels to Almesbury to see Guinevere. During the civil war, Guinevere is portrayed as a scapegoat for violence without developing her perspective or motivation. However, after Arthur's death, Guinevere retires to a convent in penitence for her infidelity. Her contrition is sincere and permanent; Lancelot is unable to sway her to come away with him. Instead, Lancelot becomes a monk, and is joined in monastic life by his kinsmen. Arthur's successor is appointed (Constantine, son of King Carados of Scotland), and the realm that Arthur created is significantly changed. After the deaths of Guinevere and Lancelot, Sirs Bors, Hector, Blamore, and Bleoberis head to the Holy Land to crusade, where they die on Good Friday.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28789899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28789899", "title": "List of Ukrainian encyclopedias", "text": "List of Ukrainian encyclopedias\n\nA list of Ukrainian language encyclopedias:\n\n"}
{"id": "51923476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51923476", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Nepal", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Nepal\n\nThe UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) has designated 4 World Heritage sites in Nepal. The first sites from the Country Nepal were the Sagarmatha National Park and Kathmandu Valley.\nIn Nepal, there are 2 cultural and 2 natural mixed sites. Additionally, there are 15 tentative sites proposed by Nepal in UNESCO.\n\nThe table is sortable by column by clicking on the at the top of the appropriate column; alphanumerically for the site, area, and year columns; by state party for the location column; and by criteria type for the criteria column. Transborder sites sort at the bottom.\n\n"}
{"id": "58947467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58947467", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in North Africa", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in North Africa\n\nThis is a list of UNESCO World Heritage sites in Northern Africa.\n\nThe list below ignores UNESCO's geopolitical definition of Africa and includes what it describes as sites in the \"Arab States\". Egypt is included as part of North Africa. The list also comprises a number of sites for which the state party is outside the continent, but the site itself is located in Africa; three such sites are located on the Canary Islands (belonging to Spain), and one on Madeira (belonging to Portugal).\n\nThe table is sortable by column by clicking on the at the top of the appropriate column; alphanumerically for the Site, Area, and Year columns; by state party followed by the region for the Location column; and by criteria type followed by the country for the Criteria column.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8701085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8701085", "title": "List of books in computational geometry", "text": "List of books in computational geometry\n\nThis is a list of books in computational geometry.\nThere are two major, largely nonoverlapping categories:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe conferences below, of broad scope, published many seminal papers in the domain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "709308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709308", "title": "Montague grammar", "text": "Montague grammar\n\nMontague grammar is an approach to natural language semantics, named after American logician Richard Montague. The Montague grammar is based on formal logic, especially higher-order predicate logic and lambda calculus, and makes use of the notions of intensional logic, via Kripke models. Montague pioneered this approach in the 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nMontague's thesis was that natural languages (like English) and formal languages (like programming languages) can be treated in the same way:\n\nThere is in my opinion no important theoretical difference between natural languages and the artificial languages of logicians; indeed, I consider it possible to comprehend the syntax and semantics of both kinds of language within a single natural and mathematically precise theory. On this point I differ from a number of philosophers, but agree, I believe, with Chomsky and his associates. (Universal Grammar 1970)\nMontague published what soon became known as Montague grammar in three papers:\n\nIn a 2004 paper, Chris Barker linked Montague's treatment of quantification to the notion of continuation in programming language semantics.\n\nIn David Foster Wallace's novel \"Infinite Jest\", the protagonist Hal Incandenza has written an essay entitled \"Montague Grammar and the Semantics of Physical Modality\". Montague grammar is also referenced explicitly and implicitly several times throughout the book.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19614230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19614230", "title": "Moomins", "text": "Moomins\n\nThe Moomins () are the central characters in a series of books and a comic strip by Swedish-speaking Finnish illustrator Tove Jansson, originally published in Swedish by Schildts in Finland. They are a family of white, round fairy tale characters with large snouts that make them resemble hippopotamuses. The carefree and adventurous family live in their house in Moominvalley, though in the past, their temporary residences have included a lighthouse and a theatre. They have had many adventures along with their various friends.\n\nIn all, nine books were released in the series, together with five picture books and a comic strip being released between 1945 and 1993.\n\nThe Moomins have since been the basis for numerous television series, films and even a theme park called Moomin World in Naantali, Finland.\n\nThe Moomin stories concern several eccentric and oddly-shaped characters, some of whom are related to each other. The central family consists of Moominpappa, Moominmamma and Moomintroll.\n\nOther characters, such as Hemulens, Sniff, the Snork Maiden, Snufkin and Little My are accepted into or attach themselves to the family group from time to time, generally living separate lives in the surrounding Moominvalley, where the series is set. It is in this fictional valley, that the Moomin family decides to live at the end of \"The Moomins and the Great Flood\".\n\n\nCritics have interpreted various Moomin characters as being inspired by real people, especially members of the author's family, and Tove Jansson spoke in interviews about the backgrounds of, and possible models for, her characters. The first two books about the Moomins were published in 1945 and 1946 respectively, and deal with natural disasters; they were influenced by the upheavals of war and Jansson's depression during the war years.\n\nTove Jansson's life partner was the graphic artist Tuulikki Pietilä, whose personality inspired the character Too-Ticky in \"Moominland Midwinter\". Moomintroll and Little My have been seen as psychological self-portraits of the artist. The Moomins, generally speaking, relate strongly to Jansson's own family – they were bohemian, lived close to nature and were very tolerant towards diversity. Moominpappa and Moominmamma are often seen as portraits of Jansson's parents Viktor Jansson and Signe Hammarsten-Jansson. Most of Jansson's characters are on the verge of melancholy, such as the always formal Hemulen, or the strange Hattifatteners, who travel in concerted, ominous groups. Jansson uses the differences between the characters' philosophies to provide a venue for her satirical impulses.\n\nThe books in the series, in order, are:\n\n\nAll of the books in the main series except \"The Moomins and the Great Flood\" (Originally: \"Småtrollen och den stora översvämningen\") were translated and published in English during the 1960s and 70s. This first book would eventually be translated into English in 2005 by David McDuff and published by Schildts of Finland for the 60th anniversary of the series. A later 2012 version of the same translation featuring Jansson's new preface to the 1991 Scandinavian printing, was published in Britain by \"Sort Of Books\", and was more widely distributed.\n\nThere are also five Moomin picture books by Tove Jansson:\n\nThe first official translation of \"Villain in the Moominhouse\" by Tove Jansson historian Ant O'Neill was premiered in a reading at the ArchWay With Words literary festival on 25th September 2017.\n\nThe books and comic strips have been translated from their original Swedish and English respectively into many languages. The Book about Moomin, Mymble and Little My is the first Moomin book to be adapted for iPad.\n\nThe Moomins also appeared in the form of comic strips. Their first appearance was in 1947 in the children's section of the \"Ny Tid\" newspaper, and they were introduced internationally to English readers in 1954 in the popular London newspaper \"The Evening News\". Tove Jansson drew and wrote all the strips until 1959. She shared the work load with her brother Lars Jansson until 1961; after that he took over the job until 1975 when the last strip was released.\n\nDrawn and Quarterly, a Canadian graphic novel publisher, released reprints of all \"The Evening News\" strips created by both Tove and Lars Jansson beginning in October 2006. The first five volumes, \"Moomin: The Complete Tove Jansson Comic Strip\" have been published, whilst the sixth volume, published in May 2011, began \"Moomin: The Complete Lars Jansson Comic Strip\". The 2015 publication \"Moomin: The Deluxe Anniversary Edition\" collected all of Tove's work.\n\nIn the 1990s, a comic book version of Moomin was produced in Scandinavia after Dennis Livson and Lars Jansson's animated series was shown on television. Neither Tove nor Lars Jansson had any involvement in these comic books; however, in the wake of the series, two new Moomin comic strips were launched under the artistic and content oversight of Lars and his daughter, Sophia Jansson-Zambra. Sophia now provides sole oversight for the strips.\n\nThe story of the Moomins has been made into television series on many occasions by various groups, the most recent of which is a Japanese–Dutch collaboration, that has also produced a feature-length film. However, there are also two Soviet serials, puppet animation \"Mumi-troll\" (\"Moomintroll\") and cutout animation \"Shlyapa Volshebnika\" (\"Magician's Hat\") of three parts each, and the Polish–Austrian puppet animation TV series, \"The Moomins\", which was broadcast and became popular in an edited form in the United Kingdom in the 1980s.\n\nThe two newest feature films re-use the footage of the Polish-Austrian series: \"Moomin and Midsummer Madness\" had its release in 2008, and in 2010 the Moomins appear in the first Nordic 3-D film production, with the title song by Björk, in \"Moomins and the Comet Chase\". The recent animated film titled \"Moomins on the Riviera\" is based on Moomin comic strip story \"Moomin on the Riviera\" and has been first released on 10 October 2014 in Finland and made premiere on 11 October 2014 at BFI London Film Festival in United Kingdom. In an October 2014 blog article at Screendaily, Sophia Jansson states that the film's “artistic team has made an effort to be true to the original drawings and the original text”.\n\n\nThe Moomin novels describe the musical activities of the Moomins, particularly those of Snufkin, his harmonica with \"trills\" and \"twiddles\". All Moomin characters sing songs, often about their thoughts and themselves. The songs often serve as core statements of the characters' personalities.\n\nThis music was heard outside Moominvalley after they went live on theater stage in Stockholm. Director Vivica Bandler told Jansson in 1959: \"Listen, here the people want songs\". The earlier version of the play was cast in Helsinki with no music.\n\nHelsinki based pianist and composer, Erna Tauro was commissioned to write the songs to lyrics by Jansson. The first collection consisted of six Moomin Songs (\"Sex muminvisor\"): Moomintroll’s Song (\"Mumintrollets visa\"), Little My’s Song (\"Lilla Mys visa\"), Mrs. Fillyjonk’s Song (\"Fru Filifjonks sång\"), Theater Rat Emma’s Words of Wisdom (\"Teaterråttan Emmas visdomsord\"), Misabel’s Lament (\"Misans klagolåt\") and Final Song (\"Slutsång\").\n\nMore songs were published in the 1960s and 1970s, when Jansson and Lars Jansson produced a series of Moomin dramas for Swedish Television. The simple, yet effective melodies by Tauro were well received by the theater and TV audiences. The first songs were either sung unaccompanied or accompanied by a pianist. While the most famous Moomin songs in Scandinavia are undoubtedly \"Moomintroll’s Song\" and \"Little My’s Song\", they appear in no context in the novels.\n\nThe original songs by Jansson and Tauro remained scattered after their initial release. The first recording of the complete collection was made in 2003 by composer and arranger Mika Pohjola on the \"Moomin Voices\" CD (\"Muminröster\" in Swedish), as a tribute to the late Tove Jansson. Tauro had died in June 1993 and some of Jansson's last lyrics were composed by Pohjola in cooperation with Jansson's heirs. Pohjola was also the arranger of all songs for a vocal ensemble and chamber orchestra. All voices were sung by Åland native vocalist, Johanna Grüssner. The same recording has been released in a Finnish version in 2005, \"Muumilauluja\". The Finnish lyrics were translated by Kirsi Kunnas and Vexi Salmi.\n\nThe Swedish and Finnish recordings of Moomin Voices, and their respective musical scores, have been used as course material at Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nThe Moomin Voices Live Band (aka. \"Muumilauluja-bändi\") is dedicated to exclusively performing the original lyrics and unaltered stories by Ms. Jansson. This band is led by Pohjola on piano, with vocalists Mirja Mäkelä and Eeppi Ursin.\n\nIndependent musical interpretations of the Moomins have been made for the nineties anime, by Pierre Kartner, with translated versions being made including in Poland and the Nordic countries. Their lyrics, however, often contain simple slogans and the music is written in a children's pop music style and contrast sharply with the original Moomin novels and Jansson's pictorial and descriptive, yet rhyming lyricism, as well as Erna Tauro's Scandinavian-style songs (\"visor\"), which are occasionally influenced by Kurt Weill.\n\nA Moomin opera was written in 1974 by the Finnish composer Ilkka Kuusisto; Jansson designed the costumes.\n\nMusicscapes from Moominvalley is a four-part work based on the Moomin compositions of composer and producer Heikki Mäenpää. It was created on the basis of the original Moomin works for the Tampere Art Museum.\n\nTwenty new Moomin songs were produced in Finland by Timo Poijärvi and Ari Vainio in 2006. This Finnish album contains no original lyrics by Jansson. However, it is based on the novel, Comet in Moominland, and adheres to the original stories. The songs are performed by Samuli Edelmann, Sani, Tommi Läntinen, Susanna Haavisto and Jore Marjaranta and other established Finnish vocalists in the pop/entertainment genre. The same twenty compositions are also available as standalone multimedia CD postcards.\n\nThe Icelandic singer Björk has composed and performed the title song (Comet Song) for the film Moomins and the Comet Chase (2010). The lyrics were written by the Icelandic writer Sjón.\n\nHattifatteners is an art project created by Russian composer Lex Plotnikoff and photographer Tisha Razumovsky. The project consists of 31 ambient/new-age music tracks and many photos of moomin characters models.\n\nSeveral stage productions have been made from Jansson's Moomin series, including a number that Jansson herself was involved in.\n\nThe earliest production was a 1949 theatrical version of \"Comet in Moominland\" performed at Åbo Svenska Teater.\n\nIn the early 1950s, Jansson collaborated on Moomin-themed children's plays with Vivica Bandler. By 1958, Jansson began to become directly involved in theater as Lilla Teater produced \"Troll i kulisserna\" (\"Troll in the wings\"), a Moomin play with lyrics by Jansson and music composed by Erna Tauro. The production was a success, and later performances were held in Sweden and Norway, including recently at the Malmö Opera and Music Theatre in 2011.\n\nMoomin World (\"Muumimaailma\" in Finnish, \"Muminvärlden\" in Swedish) is the Moomin Theme Park especially for children. Moomin World is located on the island of Kailo beside the old town of Naantali, near the city of Turku in Western Finland.\n\nThe blueberry-coloured Moomin House is the main attraction; tourists are allowed to freely visit all five stories. It is also possible to see the Hemulen's yellow house, Moominmama's kitchen, the Fire Station, Snufkin's Camp, Moominpappa's boat, etc. Visitors may also meet Moomin characters there. Moomin World opens for the Summer season.\n\nFirst announced in 2013, a new Moomin theme park is set to open in 2019 at Lake Miyazawa, Hannō, in Saitama Prefecture northwest of Tokyo, Japan. There will be two zones: the free Metsä Village area, comprising lakefront restaurants and shops set among natural activities, and the Moomin-themed zone offering attractions like Moominhouse and an art museum.\n\nThe Moominvalley of the Tampere Art Museum is a museum devoted to the original works of Tove Jansson. It contains around 2,000 works. The museum is based on the Moomin books and has many original Moomin illustrations by Tove Jansson. The gem of the collection is a blue five-storey model of the Moominhouse, which had Tove Jansson as one of its builders. As a birthday present, the 20-year-old museum received a soundscape work based on the works of Tove Jansson, called Musicscapes from Moominvalley.\n\nAn interactive playroom about the Moomins was located at Scandinavia House, New York City, from November 11, 2006, till March 31, 2007.\n\n, also called \"Moomin Valley\", is a Moomin themed park for children in Hannō, Saitama in Japan that opened in July, 1997.\n\nAs of January 2018, there are 19 MOOMIN SHOPS around the world, offering an extensive range of Moomin-themed goods. Finland, home of the Moomins, has 3 stores. There are 2 stores in the UK. 6 stores in Japan. China and Hong Kong each have 1 store. There are 3 stores in South Korea and 3 stores in Thailand.\n\nAs of January 2018, there are 15 themed MOOMIN CAFES around the world - Finland, Japan, Hong Kong, Thailand, South Korea and Taiwan - allowing diners to immerse themselves in the Moomin world. Diners can enjoy Moomin-inspired meals sitting at tables with larger-than-life plush versions of Moomin characters.\n\nThe Moomin Boom (\"muumibuumi\" in Finnish) started in the 1990s, when Dennis Livson and Lars Jansson produced a 104-part animation series in Japan named \"Tales From Moominvalley\", which was followed by a full-length movie \"Comet in Moominland\". Moomin books had always been steady bestsellers in Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, but the animation started a new Moomin madness both in Finland and abroad, especially in Japan, where they are the official mascots of the Daiei chain of shopping centers. A large merchandising industry was built around the Moomin characters, covering everything from coffee cups and T-shirts to plastic models. Even the former Finnish President Tarja Halonen has been known to wear a Moomin watch. New Moomin comic books and comic strips were published. Moomins were used to advertise Finland abroad: the Helsinki-Vantaa International Airport was decorated with Moomin images and Finnair painted big Moomin figures on its Japan-line airplanes. The peak of the Moomin Boom was the opening of the Moomin World theme park in Naantali, Finland, which has become one of Finland's international tourist destinations.\n\nThe Moomin Boom has been criticized for commercializing the Moomins. Friends of Tove Jansson and many old Moomin enthusiasts have stressed that the animations banalize the original and philosophical Moomin world to harmless family entertainment. An antithesis for the Disneyland-like Moomin World theme park is the Moomin Museum of Tampere, which exhibits the original illustrations and hand-made Moomin models by Tove Jansson.\n\nThe Jansson family has kept the rights of Moomins and controlled the Moomin Boom. The artistic control is now in the hands of Lars Jansson's daughter, Sophia Jansson-Zambra. Wanting to keep the control over Moomins, the family has turned down offers from the Walt Disney Company.\n\nThe Moomin brand is estimated to have a yearly retail value of 700million EU per year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18385344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18385344", "title": "Ol' Man Adam an' His Chillun", "text": "Ol' Man Adam an' His Chillun\n\nOl’ Man Adam an’ His Chillun is a collection of folk tales written by Roark Bradford and published in the United Kingdom and the United States in 1928. The book was later adapted for a play and film by Marc Connelly.\n\n"}
{"id": "36805709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36805709", "title": "Orient-Institut Beirut", "text": "Orient-Institut Beirut\n\nThe Orient-Institut Beirut (OIB) () is one of ten German Humanities Institutes Abroad which belong to the Max Weber Foundation. The OIB was established in 1961 by the Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft (German Oriental Society) and is part of the Max Weber Foundation since 2003. The OIB supports and promotes independent research on the historical and contemporary Middle East and the Arab world in cooperation with researchers and academic institutions throughout the region.\n\nThe Orient-Institut Beirut was founded by the German Oriental Society in 1961. It was financed by the German Federal Ministry of Research and Technology, the Fritz Thyssen Foundation and the VolkswagenStiftung. Since 2003 the Orient-Institut Beirut belongs to the Max Weber Foundation – German Humanities Institutes Abroad. In 2009 the Orient-Institut Istanbul (OI Istanbul) – which had been a branch of the Beirut institute for 20 years – became an independent institution inside the Max Weber Foundation. The OIB, which conducts and supports research on historical and contemporary issues related to Lebanon and the Arab world, has increased his cooperation with academic partners in Egypt since 2010.\n\nThe OIB is an interdisciplinary research institute. The study of social, religious, and intellectual history, as well as the study of literature, language and politics figures among the various projects undertaken at the institute. It is part of the OIB's mission to support young academic researchers. The Orient-Institut Beirut employs research associates and supports PhD students, post-docs, research projects, affiliated researchers, and scholars working on the Middle East. The OIB cooperates with numerous academic institutions and organizes academic events (lectures, symposia, and congresses)on a wide variety of issues related to the MENA region.\n\nThe library of the OIB is open for public use and offers 130.000 volumes and 1.700 periodicals. Its collection includes studies on religion, philosophy, and law as well as on literature, history and contemporary themes related to the Middle East. Material is gathered in Western languages, in Arabic and occasionally in Persian and Turkish. All this is supplemented by academic literature from various related disciplines, including political science, social anthropology and sociology. One of the richest resources of the OIB is its collections of periodicals covering politics, religion, and culture as well as several literary magazines published in the Middle East.\n\nThe OIB publishes two series of publications and one online-publication.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58714946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58714946", "title": "Pennsylvania Humanities Council", "text": "Pennsylvania Humanities Council\n\nPennsylvania Humanities Council (PHC) is a non-profit affiliate of the National Endowment for the Humanities based in Philadelphia, PA. It is one of 56 state humanities councils founded in the wake of the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965.\n\nPennsylvania Humanities Council's office is located at 325 Chestnut Street #715, Philadelphia, PA 19106. The current Executive Director is Laurie Zierer.\n\nThe earliest state councils were organized in 1971, with Pennsylvania’s council founded as a start-up grant at the University of Pennsylvania. In 1973 the Public Committee for the Humanities in Pennsylvania officially incorporated as a nonprofit at Bucknell University. In 1980, the name Pennsylvania Humanities Council (PHC) was established and the organization settled in Philadelphia.\n\nIn the early years, PHC’s activity consisted almost exclusively of making grants to nonprofit organizations with funds provided by the NEH. During the 1980s and early 1990s, they incorporated staff-directed special projects and packaged programs.\n\nIn 1994, PHC focused on expanding access to the humanities in Pennsylvania beyond groups traditionally interested in cultural events. They began to support local groups, working to build the programming capacity of small historical societies, museums, art centers, libraries, senior centers, and community groups.\n\nSince 2013, Pennsylvania Humanities Council has shifted its focus to civic engagement, education and humanities advocacy.\n\n\nChester Made is a humanities-based initiative developed by Pennsylvania Humanities Council to recognize and promote arts and culture in Chester, Pennsylvania for the purpose of community revitalization. In 2016 PHC received two major grants from the National Endowment for the Arts and The Pew Center for Arts & Heritage for the development of a Chester Made Exploration Zone in the 500 block of Avenue of the States.\n\nPennsylvania Humanities Council is currently partnering with select Pennsylvania towns to incorporate elements of the humanities into their planning processes using the Orton Family Foundation's Community Heart & Soul® method as a framework.\n\nPennsylvania Humanities Council supports humanities programming and cultural experiences for students in University of Pennsylvania’s Veteran’s Upward Bound program.\n\nTeen Reading Lounge is a nontraditional book club created by Pennsylvania Humanities Council for teens ages 12-18. Teens help to create the reading list for their program sites and, work with trained facilitators, to design creative projects. There are Teen Reading Lounge sites throughout Pennsylvania.\n\nOther programs have included Commonwealth Speakers, the televised series Humanities on the Road, and a partnership with the Penn State Reads program. Additional activities include participation in the Pittsburgh Humanities Festival, Pulitzer Prize Centennial Campfires Initiative, and Democracy and the Informed Citizen Initiative.\n"}
{"id": "47755577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47755577", "title": "Pessoa (magazine)", "text": "Pessoa (magazine)\n\nPessoa is a Brazilian online literary magazine that publishes poetry, short-stories, drama, interviews, essays, and book reviews, besides covering the Lusophone literature market. Founded in 2010 and published by Mombak, its editor-in-large is . It is based in São Paulo, Brazil.\n\n\"Pessoa\" magazine was founded by journalist and editor Mirna Queiroz and launched at the 2010 São Paulo International Book Biennial, with support by the Official Press of the State of São Paulo. The title pays homage to Portuguese poet Fernando Pessoa. In an interview to Lusa, the Portuguese news agency, Mirna Queiroz underlined that:\n\n\"\"Above all the magazine aims to encourage reading, we want to bring literature to the reader, especially the most distant groups who do not have access to public facilities, either for lack of opportunity or knowledge.\"\"\n\nIn 2012 Pessoa discontinued its printed version and became an online only platform.\n\nMany Lusophone writers have published in Pessoa or have been interviewed by the magazine, such as Ferreira Gullar, Gonçalo M. Tavares, Manuel Alegre, Luiz Ruffato, Valter Hugo Mãe, Milton Hatoum. The magazine also employs essay and op-ed contributors who write about literary/cultural, political, and social topics. They include Alison Entrekin, Eloésio Paulo, Manuel Jorge Marmelo, Noemi Jaffe, Elvira Vigna, Nilma Lacerda, Ronaldo Bressane, Tiago Novaes, Josélia Aguiar, Juliano Garcia Pessanha, Victor Heringer, Isabel Lucas, Alice Sant'Anna.\n\nAll work published in \"Pessoa\" is reviewed by editors Carlos Henrique Schroder (short-stories), who is also the magazine’s associate editor, Heloisa Jahn (poetry) and João Cezar de Castro Rocha (Literatura Brasileira Hoje).\n\nIn 2014 \"Pessoa\" and Mombak began the publication of e-books. One collection – Latitudes – edited by author Maria Valéria Rezende, brought attention to five local Brazilian writers and made it to Amazon's Top 1 best-selling e-books in Brazil.\n\nIn the same year, Mombak gathered short-stories and poems published in Pessoa throughout the year. Edited by Luiz Ruffato the two anthologies were published in e-book. The first - Desassossego - published short-stories by Cíntia Moscovich, Susana Moreira Marques, Luiz Roberto Guedes, Carlos Quiroga, Monique Revolution, Vanessa Ribeiro Rodrigues, Marta Barbosa, Sergio Leo, Márcia Barbieri, Rafael Gallo, Alexandre Staut, André de Leones, Carlos Henrique Schroeder, Daniel Antônio, Astier Basílio, Tiago R. Santos, José Luiz Passos, Maurício de Almeida and Wladyr Nader. The second anthology - Fingimento - published poems by Donizete Galvão, Ronaldo Cagiano, Victor Heringer, Antonio Barreto, Iacyr Anderson de Freitas, Eloésio Paulo, Ana Martins Marques, Moacir Amâncio, José de Assis Freitas Filho, Vera Lúcia de Oliveira, Tércia Montenegro, Adriana Lisboa, Mariana Ianelli, Camila do Valle and Dora Ribeiro.\n\nIn 2015 Pessoa began publishing annual anthologies (in French and English) of Brazilian writers. The first anthology, with 27 authors (prose, poetry, children's and drama), was presented at the 2015 Salon du livre de Paris and the 2015 Boston Book Festival. The publication was edited by Université Paris-Sorbonne’s literature professor Leonardo Tonus.\n\n\"Pessoa\" regularly organizes events in Brazil and abroad to encourage reading or to promote Portuguese-language literature, including sessions at the Salon du livre de Paris or at the Boston Book Festival, in partnership with academic institutions such as Paris-Sorbonne University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) or Boston University. Events in Brazil have been organized with Sesc, the Culture Secretariat of the State Government of São Paulo, and Blooks Bookstore, among other institutions.\n\n\"Pessoa\" is an associate member of the Boston Literary District, America’s first Literary Cultural District. In 2015 \"Pessoa\" and Worldreader, a U.S. non-profit organization with the mission of \"providing digital books to children and families in the developing world\", signed a partnership making \"Pessoa\"’s content available for free. It was Worldreader’s first partnership with a Lusophone media partner. In 2016, a new partnership was announced with Words Without Borders aiming at the exchange of selected works with the ultimate goal of generating greater global visibility for American and Lusophone authors.\n\n"}
{"id": "31182782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31182782", "title": "Phonological opacity", "text": "Phonological opacity\n\nPhonological opacity is a term used in phonology. It was first defined by Kiparsky as a measure of the context or the consequences of a phonological process that may be determined only by examining the surface structure. Kiparsky defined it in the following way:\n\nA phonological rule \"P\", formula_1, is opaque only if all of the following surface structures exist:\n\n\nA common example is the interaction of the flapping of // and the raising of // in Canadian English and other dialects. Before voiceless consonants such as [], the diphthong // is raised to sound more like [], so the word \"write\" is pronounced []. In some contexts between vowels, // is replaced by the (voiced) flap [], so (for example) \"patting\" is pronounced [], similar to \"padding\". In words like \"writing\", where // is followed by // between vowels, \"both\" rules apply and the result is []—with // raised to [] \"and\" // flapped to []. This output therefore has [] immediately followed by a voiced consonant, even though the rule that produces [] only applies before voiceless consonants. The interaction is thus \"opaque\": [] is present on the surface in an environment that differs from the environment in which the rule that creates it applies.\n\nPhonological opacity is often the result of the counterfeeding or counterbleeding order of two or more phonological rules, which is called \"counter-feeding opacity\" or \"counter-bleeding opacity\". An example of both can be seen in the future-marking suffix \"-en\" in the Yokutsan languages. Its vowel is supposed to be an underlying high vowel, though it surfaces as a mid vowel. Vowel rounding always applies before vowel lowering. Due to this order of phonological rules, the interaction of the suffix vowel with rounding harmony is opaque. There is still vowel harmony between the suffix vowel and a preceding high vowel as these vowels agree in roundedness, while a vowel with the feature [-high] would usually be exempt from rounding harmony. As a result of counter-bleeding opacity, the apparent motivation for the vowel harmony has disappeared here. Moreover, as a result of counter-feeding opacity, it cannot be told from the surface structure of the suffix vowel why it fails to harmonize in rounding with preceding mid vowels.\n"}
{"id": "1212240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1212240", "title": "Regional autonomy", "text": "Regional autonomy\n\nRegional autonomy is decentralization of governance to outlying regions. Recent examples of disputes over autonomy include:\n\n\nCurrent examples of autonomous regions include the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region in China and the Cherokee Nation in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "29537290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29537290", "title": "Seyed Mostafa Azmayesh", "text": "Seyed Mostafa Azmayesh\n\nSeyed Mostafa Azmayesh is a French-Iranian jurist scholar and researcher, with over 40 years of experience as a Quran expert, and is known for his research in the field of Gnosticism, Islam and Christianity. As a human rights activist, his most notable efforts have been towards the push for reform within fundamentalist regimes, such as Iran, and the reform of social or legal practices that are in violation of Human Rights principles and freedom of the people. As an academic, he teaches the spiritual path of substantial evolution of an individual based on love, altruism, and spiritual chivalry.\n\nSeyed Mostafa Azmayesh was born in Tehran (Iran) in 1952. On completion of his studies in Arabian Literature (Tehran 1974) and Law (Tehran 1975), he moved to France in 1976. In Paris he studied Theology and History of Law at the Sorbonne University, as well as Comparative Studies of Islam and Christianity at the University of Lyon for which he received two doctorate degrees. One of his professors was the philosopher and theologian Henri Corbin. After having completed his academic studies he continued his research in the areas of religion, philosophy and various fields of science. Azmayesh was admitted into the lineage of initiates of the Nematollahi-Gonabadi order in 1969, which is the most popular and oldest Sufi order in Iran. Azmayesh is the official representative of the Shah Ni'matullah Wali Gonabadi Order outside of Iran.\n\nAzmayesh has over 40 years of experience in the research and study of the Quran. His scholarly work and publications embody an innovative and scientific approach to the Quranic text. His book \"New Researches on the Quran – Why and how two versions of Islam entered the history of mankind\", brings forth many such scientific elements to the text, along with historical findings and contextual elements to the Quran. Some of his other works include – \"The Teachings of a Sufi Master\", \"The Pearl of Sufism\", \"Heart Meditation: An Introduction to Gnostic Heart Meditation\", and \"Crucifixion: Fact or Fiction?\".\n\nAzmayesh founded a spiritual school that teaches the Substantial Evolution Path based on the development of the inner aptitudes of each individual, in order to lead the student towards substantial spiritual evolution based on principles of tolerance, love, humility and respect for each human being regardless of their background, religion, skin color, etc. Azmayesh participates in scientific dialogues and conferences with other researchers and academics, such as Peter Antes, Rupert Sheldrake, Pim van Lommel, Jay Lakhani and Markus Peters, conducts lectures and holds workshops throughout Europe. Azmayesh was listed in the Watkins' Mind Body Spirit magazine as one of the 100 Most Spiritually Influential Living People.\n\nSince the onset of the Iranian Revolution in 1979 and the growth of extremist ideologies under the name of Islam, Azmayesh has worked to oppose those who propagate extremist ideas based on the false interpretation of Islam. His activities have included talks in the United Nations (UN) as well as an exclusive interview with Ahmed Shaheed, the former United Nations Special Rapporteur for Human Rights in Iran, along with meetings and interviews with members of the European Parliament, who are responsible for covering the Human Rights issues in Iran.\n\nThrough scholarly research he has shown that Human Rights principles are compatible with Quranic principles, and according to the Quran, a Muslim civilisation must be based on mutual respect and equality for all, regardless of race, gender or religious beliefs, and there is no place for any kind of violence. His weekly Radio and online TV programmes, such as Dorr TV, along with the satellite channel PARS-TV, put pressure on extremist elements within the Iranian Regime in order to reform the regimes’ radical movements.\n\nFor many years, Azmayesh has spoken in opposition of the practice of stoning in Iran. Through research-findings, he proved that there is no relation between Islam and stoning, and his research highlighted how several tyrants throughout history have used stoning punishments for reasons of power and suppression. As of 2011, the practice of stoning is no longer practised in Iran as a result of the years of advocacy by Azmayesh.\n\nIn response to the uprising in 2009 following the presidential elections, he supported the Freedom of expression and free speech, and campaigned for the freedom of prominent political prisoners such as Nasrin Sotoudeh (an Iranian female human rights lawyer), Narges Mohammadi, and religious and ethnic minorities such as Kurds, Baha’i and Sufis.\nHe has been influential in the release of numerous Sufis who were imprisoned by the extremist elements in the Iranian Regime as part of its program to suppress minorities.\n\nIn the face of the rise of Islamist extremism in the West, he has spoken at a series of conferences in England, Germany, UK Parliament and the European Parliament, and published research-based proposals and reports to tackling these growing issues of violence and extremism.\n\nAzmayesh co-founded the International Organisation to Preserve Human Rights (IOPHR) in February 2014, in order to continue his efforts to protect human rights for all, counter the rise of Islamist extremism and violence, and continue his advocacy for gender-equality and eliminating gender-based violence.\n\nIOPHR is an active not-for-profit organisation and think tank based in the United Kingdom. It is a research-based organisation, with the aim to preserve human rights for all, and eliminate threats to the safety and security of society. IOPHR conducts conferences in the UK Parliament, European Parliament, and across Europe, working closely with other activists, researchers, academics, public bodies such as the London Metropolitan Police, and other public service officials.\n\n"}
{"id": "13315805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13315805", "title": "Skyhook Wireless", "text": "Skyhook Wireless\n\nSkyhook is a mobile location services company based in Boston, MA that specializes in location positioning, context and intelligence. Founded in 2003, Skyhook originally began by geolocating Wi-Fi access points and evolved with the idea that hybrid positioning technology, which incorporates Wi-Fi, GPS, cell towers, IP address and device sensors, could improve device location. Skyhook expanded their product set in 2015 to deliver advertising segments and behavioral insights; emphasizing data privatization and security for their advertising technology and mobile app customers. In 2016, Skyhook engineered Precision Location to power Wearables and the Internet of Things, and launched products Personas and Context Accelerator to help brands reach out to mobile consumers.\n\nSkyhook was founded in 2003 by Ted Morgan and Michael Shean. Skyhook’s database was initially gathered through wardriving, when the company sent teams of drivers around the United States, Canada, Western Europe and selected Asian countries to map out Wi-Fi hot spots.\n\nSkyhook powers location-based services for companies such as Apple, Samsung, Sony, HP, Dell, Sharp, Philips and MapQuest.\n\nSkyhook received its first patent in 2007, and now holds over 400 patents across the United States and foreign markets.\n\nIn February 2014, Skyhook Wireless was acquired by TruePosition Inc, a subsidiary of Liberty Broadband. In 2016, the two companies merged under the Skyhook brand, which now rests under Liberty Broadband, which is a part of the Liberty Media family.\n\nTo pinpoint location, Skyhook uses a reference network composed of the known locations of over 2 billion Wi-Fi access points and cellular towers. Skyhook's coverage area includes most major metro areas in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.\n\nSkyhook's system can also be used to enhance the capabilities and performance of GPS enabled devices where GPS reception is weak, for example: indoors, downtown, and crowded areas.\n\nSkyhook offers a software development kit (SDK), which allows developers to create location-enabled applications. This uses Skyhook's software-only Hybrid Positioning System on the platform of their choice.\n\nThe SDK supports Android 2.2 (Froyo), 2.3.x (Gingerbread), 4.0.x (Ice Cream Sandwich), and 4.1.x (Jelly Bean)), 4.4 (KitKat), 5.0-5.1 (Lollipop), and 6.0 (Marshmallow) including forked platforms such as the Kindle Fire, along with Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X.\n\nIn 2013, Skyhook launched Context, which uses Skyhook's location network along with venue data to give mobile users awareness of the changing world around them.\n\nContext enables personalized mobile experiences and enhanced revenue opportunities using our 1st Party Location Network and precisely located venues.\n\nThe SDK requires iOS 6.0+ and a device with region monitoring support: iPhone 4+, iPad (Wi-Fi only) 3+, iPad (Wi-Fi+Cell) 2+, iPad mini, iPad Air, iPod Touch 5+.\n\nThe Android SDK is supported on Android 2.2 (Froyo), 2.3.x (Gingerbread), 4.0.x (Ice Cream Sandwich), 4.1.x-4.3 (Jelly Bean), 4.4 (KitKat), 5.0-5.1 (Lollipop), and 6.0 (Marshmallow) including forked platforms such as the Kindle Fire.\n\nSkyhook's Personas make location data into meaningful insights and segments built on ground-truthed venues and verified device signals.\n\nPersonas help optimize conversion rates, reduce wasted spend and enhance campaign performance by pairing consumers’ offline behaviors to relevant ads and offers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18527821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18527821", "title": "Society for Latin American Studies", "text": "Society for Latin American Studies\n\nSociety for Latin American Studies is based in the United Kingdom and one of Europe's largest organizations of scholars of Latin American studies. It was founded in 1964 and has over 400 members, including diplomats, writers, and researchers in both academia and commercial and non-governmental organisations. SLAS organizes an annual conference and produces the quarterly journal, Bulletin of Latin American Research; it also provides grants to support research and professional activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "7354736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7354736", "title": "Suniti Kumar Chatterji", "text": "Suniti Kumar Chatterji\n\nSuniti Kumar Chatterji (26 November 1890 – 29 May 1977) was an Indian linguist, educationist and litterateur. He was a recipient of the third highest Indian civilian honour of Padma Bhushan.\n\nChatterji was born on 26 November 1890 at Shibpur in Howrah. He was the son of Haridas Chattopadhyay, an affluent Kulin Brahmin.\n\nSuniti Kumar was a meritorious student, and passed the Entrance (school leaving) examination from the Mutty Lal Seal's Free School (1907), ranking sixth, and the FA (pre-university examination) from the renowned Scottish Church College, standing third. He did his Major (Honours) in English literature from Presidency College, Kolkata, standing first in the first class in 1911. His childhood friend was famous industrialist Nagendra Nath Das founder of Power Tools And Appliance Co. Ltd. In 1913, he completed his M.A. in English literature, again standing first. The same year, he was appointed lecturer in English at Vidyasagar College, Kolkata where his colleague was the thespian, Sisir Kumar Bhaduri.\n\nIn 1914, he became assistant professor of English in the Post-Graduate Department of the University of Calcutta, which he held till 1919. He went abroad to study at the University of London where he studied Phonology, Indo-European Linguistics, Prakrit, Persian, Old Irish, Gothic and other languages. He then went to Paris and did research at the Sorbonne in Indo-Aryan, Slav and Indo-European Linguistics, Greek and Latin. His teacher was internationally acclaimed linguist, Jules Bloch. After returning to India in 1922, he joined the University of Calcutta as the Khaira Professor of Indian Linguistics and Phonetics. After retirement in 1952, he was made Professor Emeritus and later in 1965, the National Research Professor of India for Humanities.\nSuniti Kumar accompanied Rabindranath Tagore to Malaya, Siam, Sumatra, Java, and Bali, where he delivered lectures on Indian art and culture. He was Chairman of the West Bengal Legislative Council (1952–58) and President (1969) of the Sahitya Akademi.\n\nAmong his important publications on both language and literature are\n\"Dwipamaya Bharat\" (1940)\n\"Bharat Sanskriti \"(1957)\n\nLanguage and Literature of Modern India (1963)\n\"World Literature and Tagore \"(1971)\n\nSukumar Sen, the renowned Bengali linguist, was one of Chaterjee's most notable students.\n\nSuniti Kumar died on May 29, 1977 in Calcutta. A large part of his house 'Sudharma' সুধর্মা, an architectural marvel, in South Calcutta has been converted into a Fabindia store.\n\n"}
{"id": "44911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44911", "title": "Syllable", "text": "Syllable\n\nA syllable is a unit of organization for a sequence of speech sounds. It is typically made up of a syllable nucleus (most often a vowel) with optional initial and final margins (typically, consonants). Syllables are often considered the phonological \"building blocks\" of words. They can influence the rhythm of a language, its prosody, its poetic metre and its stress patterns. Speech can usually be divided up into a whole number of syllables: for example, the word \"ignite\" is composed of two syllables: \"ig\" and \"nite\".\n\nSyllabic writing began several hundred years before the first letters. The earliest recorded syllables are on tablets written around 2800 BC in the Sumerian city of Ur. This shift from pictograms to syllables has been called \"the most important advance in the history of writing\".\n\nA word that consists of a single syllable (like English \"dog\") is called a monosyllable (and is said to be \"monosyllabic\"). Similar terms include disyllable (and \"disyllabic\"; also \"bisyllable\" and \"bisyllabic\") for a word of two syllables; trisyllable (and \"trisyllabic\") for a word of three syllables; and polysyllable (and \"polysyllabic\"), which may refer either to a word of more than three syllables or to any word of more than one syllable.\n\n\"Syllable\" is an Anglo-Norman variation of Old French \"sillabe\", from Latin \"syllaba\", from Koine Greek \"syllabḗ\" (). means \"what is taken together\", referring to letters that are taken together to make a single sound.\n\nIn the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), the period marks syllable breaks, such as in the word \"astronomical\" .\n\nIn practice, however, IPA transcription is typically divided into words by spaces, and often these spaces are also understood to be syllable breaks. In addition, the stress mark is placed immediately before a stressed syllable, and when the stressed syllable is in the middle of a word, the stress mark also marks a syllable break, for example in the word \"understood\" .\n\nWhen a word space comes in the middle of a syllable (that is, when a syllable spans words), a tie bar can be used for liaison, as in the French combination \"les amis\" . The liaison tie is also used to join lexical words into phonological words, for example \"hot dog\" .\n\nIn the typical theory of syllable structure, the general structure of a syllable (σ) consists of three segments. These segments are grouped into two components:\n\n\nThe syllable is usually considered right-branching, i.e. nucleus and coda are grouped together as a \"rime\" and are only distinguished at the second level.\n\nThe \"nucleus\" is usually the vowel in the middle of a syllable. The \"onset\" is the sound or sounds occurring before the nucleus, and the \"coda\" (literally 'tail') is the sound or sounds that follow the nucleus. They are sometimes collectively known as the \"shell\". The term \"rime\" covers the nucleus plus coda. In the one-syllable English word \"cat\", the nucleus is \"a\" (the sound that can be shouted or sung on its own), the onset \"c\", the coda \"t\", and the rime \"at\". This syllable can be abstracted as a \"consonant-vowel-consonant\" syllable, abbreviated \"CVC\". Languages vary greatly in the restrictions on the sounds making up the onset, nucleus and coda of a syllable, according to what is termed a language's phonotactics.\n\nAlthough every syllable has supra-segmental features, these are usually ignored if not semantically relevant, e.g. in tonal languages.\n\n\nIn Chinese syllable structure, the onset is replaced with an initial, and a semivowel or liquid forms another segment, called the medial. These four segments are grouped into two slightly different components:\n\n\nIn many languages of the Mainland Southeast Asia linguistic area, such as Chinese, the syllable structure is expanded to include an additional, optional segment known as a medial, which is located between the onset (often termed the \"initial\" in this context) and the rime. The medial is normally a semivowel, but reconstructions of Old Chinese generally include liquid medials ( in modern reconstructions, in older versions), and many reconstructions of Middle Chinese include a medial contrast between and , where the functions phonologically as a glide rather than as part of the nucleus. In addition, many reconstructions of both Old and Middle Chinese include complex medials such as , , and . The medial groups phonologically with the rime rather than the onset, and the combination of medial and rime is collectively known as the final.\n\nSome linguists, especially when discussing the modern Chinese varieties, use the terms \"final\" and \"rime/rhyme\" interchangeably. In historical Chinese phonology, however, the distinction between \"final\" (including the medial) and \"rime\" (not including the medial) is important in understanding the rime dictionaries and rime tables that form the primary sources for Middle Chinese, and as a result most authors distinguish the two according to the above definition.\n\nIn some theories of phonology, syllable structures are displayed as tree diagrams (similar to the trees found in some types of syntax). Not all phonologists agree that syllables have internal structure; in fact, some phonologists doubt the existence of the syllable as a theoretical entity.\n\nThere are many arguments for a hierarchical relationship, rather than a linear one, between the syllable constituents. One hierarchical model groups the syllable nucleus and coda into an intermediate level, the \"rime\". The hierarchical model accounts for the role that the \"nucleus\"+\"coda\" constituent plays in verse (i.e., rhyming words such as \"cat\" and \"bat\" are formed by matching both the nucleus and coda, or the entire rime), and for the distinction between heavy and light syllables, which plays a role in phonological processes such as, for example, sound change in Old English \"scipu\" and \"wordu\".\n\nIn some traditional descriptions of certain languages, the syllable is considered left-branching, i.e. onset and nucleus group below a higher-level unit, called a \"body\" or \"core\". This contrasts with the coda.\n\nThe rime or rhyme of a syllable consists of a nucleus and an optional coda. It is the part of the syllable used in most poetic rhymes, and the part that is lengthened or stressed when a person elongates or stresses a word in speech.\n\nThe rime is usually the portion of a syllable from the first vowel to the end. For example, is the rime of all of the words \"at\", \"sat\", and \"flat\". However, the nucleus does not necessarily need to be a vowel in some languages. For instance, the rime of the second syllables of the words \"bottle\" and \"fiddle\" is just , a liquid consonant.\n\nJust as the rime branches into the nucleus and coda, the nucleus and coda may each branch into multiple phonemes. The limit for the number of phonemes which may be contained in each varies by language. For example, Japanese and most Sino-Tibetan languages do not have consonant clusters at the beginning or end of syllables, whereas many Eastern European languages can have more than two consonants at the beginning or end of the syllable. In English, the onset, nucleus, and coda may all have two phonemes, as in the word \"flouts\": [fl] in the onset, the diphthong [aʊ] in the nucleus, and [ts] in the coda.\n\n\"Rime\" and \"rhyme\" are variants of the same word, but the rarer form \"rime\" is sometimes used to mean specifically \"syllable rime\" to differentiate it from the concept of poetic rhyme. This distinction is not made by some linguists and does not appear in most dictionaries.\n\nA heavy syllable is generally one with a \"branching rime\", i.e. it is either a \"closed syllable\" that ends in a consonant, or a syllable with a \"branching nucleus\", i.e. a long vowel or diphthong. The name is a metaphor, based on the nucleus or coda having lines that branch in a tree diagram.\n\nIn some languages, heavy syllables include both VV (branching nucleus) and VC (branching rime) syllables, contrasted with V, which is a light syllable.\nIn other languages, only VV syllables are considered heavy, while both VC and V syllables are light.\nSome languages distinguish a third type of superheavy syllable, which consists of VVC syllables (with both a branching nucleus and rime) or VCC syllables (with a coda consisting of two or more consonants) or both.\n\nIn moraic theory, heavy syllables are said to have two moras, while light syllables are said to have one and superheavy syllables are said to have three. Japanese phonology is generally described this way.\n\nMany languages forbid superheavy syllables, while a significant number forbid any heavy syllable. Some languages strive for constant syllable weight; for example, in stressed, non-final syllables in Italian, short vowels co-occur with closed syllables while long vowels co-occur with open syllables, so that all such syllables are heavy (not light or superheavy).\n\nThe difference between heavy and light frequently determines which syllables receive stress – this is the case in Latin and Arabic, for example. The system of poetic meter in many classical languages, such as Classical Greek, Classical Latin, Old Tamil and Sanskrit, is based on syllable weight rather than stress (so-called \"quantitative rhythm\" or \"quantitative meter\").\n\nSyllabification is the separation of a word into syllables, whether spoken or written. In most languages, the actually spoken syllables are the basis of syllabification in writing too. Due to the very weak correspondence between sounds and letters in the spelling of modern English, for example, written syllabification in English has to be based mostly on etymological i.e. morphological instead of phonetic principles. English \"written\" syllables therefore do not correspond to the actually spoken syllables of the living language.\n\nPhonotactic rules determine which sounds are allowed or disallowed in each part of the syllable. English allows very complicated syllables; syllables may begin with up to three consonants (as in \"string\" or \"splash\"), and occasionally end with as many as four (as in \"prompts\"). Many other languages are much more restricted; Japanese, for example, only allows and a chroneme in a coda, and theoretically has no consonant clusters at all, as the onset is composed of at most one consonant.\n\nThere can be disagreement about the location of some divisions between syllables in spoken language. The problems of dealing with such cases have been most commonly discussed with relation to English. In the case of a word such as 'hurry', the division may be or , neither of which seems a satisfactory analysis for a non-rhotic accent such as RP (British English): results in a syllable-final /r/, which is not normally found, while gives a syllable-final short stressed vowel, which is also non-occurring. Arguments can be made in favour of one solution or the other: Wells (2002) proposes a general rule that \"Subject to certain conditions ..., consonants are syllabified with the more strongly stressed of two flanking syllables\", while many other phonologists prefer to divide syllables with the consonant or consonants attached to the following syllable wherever possible. However, an alternative that has received some support is to treat an intervocalic consonant as \"ambisyllabic\", i.e. belonging both to the preceding and to the following syllable: . This is discussed in more detail in English phonology#Phonotactics.\n\nThe onset (also known as anlaut) is the consonant sound or sounds at the beginning of a syllable, occurring before the nucleus. Most syllables have an onset. Syllables without an onset may be said to have a \"zero onset\" – that is, nothing where the onset would be.\n\nSome languages restrict onsets to be only a single consonant, while others allow multiconsonant onsets according to various rules. For example, in English, onsets such as \"pr-\", \"pl-\" and \"tr-\" are possible but \"tl-\" is not, and \"sk-\" is possible but \"ks-\" is not. In Greek, however, both \"ks-\" and \"tl-\" are possible onsets, while contrarily in Classical Arabic no multiconsonant onsets are allowed at all.\n\nSome languages forbid null onsets. In these languages, words beginning in a vowel, like the English word \"at\", are impossible.\n\nThis is less strange than it may appear at first, as most such languages allow syllables to begin with a phonemic glottal stop (the sound in the middle of English \"uh-oh\" or, in some dialects, the double T in \"button\", represented in the IPA as /ʔ/). In English, a word that begins with a vowel may be pronounced with an epenthetic glottal stop when following a pause, though the glottal stop may not be a phoneme in the language.\n\nFew languages make a phonemic distinction between a word beginning with a vowel and a word beginning with a glottal stop followed by a vowel, since the distinction will generally only be audible following another word. However, Maltese and some Polynesian languages do make such a distinction, as in Hawaiian \"fire\" and / \"tuna\".\n\nHebrew and Arabic forbid empty onsets. The names \"Israel\", \"Abel\", \"Abraham\", \"Iran\", \"Omar\", \"Abdullah\", and \"Iraq\" appear not to have onsets in the first syllable, but in the original Hebrew and Arabic forms they actually begin with various consonants: the semivowel in \"yisrāʔēl\", the glottal fricative in \"heḅel\", the glottal stop in \"ʔaḅrāhām\" and \"ʔīrān\", or the pharyngeal fricative in \"ʕumar\", \"ʕabduḷḷāh\", and \"ʕirāq\". Conversely, the Arrernte language of central Australia may prohibit onsets altogether; if so, all syllables have the underlying shape VC(C).\n\nThe difference between a syllable with a null onset and one beginning with a glottal stop is often purely a difference of phonological analysis, rather than the actual pronunciation of the syllable. In some cases, the pronunciation of a (putatively) vowel-initial word when following another word – particularly, whether or not a glottal stop is inserted – indicates whether the word should be considered to have a null onset. For example, many Romance languages such as Spanish never insert such a glottal stop, while English does so only some of the time, depending on factors such as conversation speed; in both cases, this suggests that the words in question are truly vowel-initial. But there are exceptions here, too. For example, standard German (excluding many southern accents) and Arabic both require that a glottal stop be inserted between a word and a following, putatively vowel-initial word. Yet such words are said to begin with a vowel in German but a glottal stop in Arabic. The reason for this has to do with other properties of the two languages. For example, a glottal stop does not occur in other situations in German, e.g. before a consonant or at the end of word. On the other hand, in Arabic, not only does a glottal stop occur in such situations (e.g. Classical \"he asked\", \"opinion\", \"light\"), but it occurs in alternations that are clearly indicative of its phonemic status (cf. Classical \"writer\" vs. /mak \"written\", \"eater\" vs. \"eaten\").\n\nThe writing system of a language may not correspond with the phonological analysis of the language in terms of its handling of (potentially) null onsets. For example, in some languages written in the Latin alphabet, an initial glottal stop is left unwritten; on the other hand, some languages written using non-Latin alphabets such as abjads and abugidas have a special zero consonant to represent a null onset. As an example, in Hangul, the alphabet of the Korean language, a null onset is represented with ㅇ at the left or top section of a grapheme, as in 역 \"station\", pronounced \"yeok\", where the diphthong \"yeo\" is the nucleus and \"k\" is the coda.\n\nThe \"nucleus\" is usually the vowel in the middle of a syllable. Generally, every syllable requires a nucleus (sometimes called the \"peak\"), and the minimal syllable consists only of a nucleus, as in the English words \"eye\" or \"owe\". The syllable nucleus is usually a vowel, in the form of a monophthong, diphthong, or triphthong, but sometimes is a syllabic consonant.\n\nIn most Germanic languages, lax vowels can occur only in closed syllables. Therefore, these vowels are also called checked vowels, as opposed to the tense vowels that are called \"free vowels\" because they can occur even in open syllables.\n\nThe notion of syllable is challenged by languages that allow long strings of obstruents without any intervening vowel or sonorant.\nBy far the most common syllabic consonants are sonorants like , , , or , as in English \"bottle, \"church\" (in rhotic accents), \"rhythm, \"button\" and \"lock n key\". \nHowever, English allows syllabic obstruents in a few para-verbal utterances such as \"shh\" (used to command silence) and \"psst\" (used to attract attention). All of these have been analyzed as phonemically syllabic.\nObstruent-only syllables also occur phonetically in some prosodic situations when unstressed vowels elide between obstruents, as in \"potato\" and \"today\" , which do not change in their number of syllables despite losing a syllabic nucleus.\n\nA few languages have so-called \"syllabic fricatives\", also known as \"fricative vowels\", at the phonemic level. (In the context of Chinese phonology, the related but non-synonymous term \"apical vowel\" is commonly used.) Mandarin Chinese is famous for having such sounds in at least some of its dialects, for example the pinyin syllables \"sī shī rī\", sometimes pronounced respectively. Though, like the nucleus of rhotic English \"church\", there is debate over whether these nuclei are consonants or vowels.\n\nLanguages of the northwest coast of North America, including Salishan, Wakashan and Chinookan languages, allow stop consonants and voiceless fricatives as syllables at the phonemic level, in even the most careful enunciation. An example is Chinook 'those two women are coming this way out of the water'. Linguists have analyzed this situation in various ways, some arguing that such syllables have no nucleus at all and some arguing that the concept of \"syllable\" cannot clearly be applied at all to these languages.\n\nOther examples:\n\nIn Bagemihl's survey of previous analyses, he finds that the Bella Coola word 'he arrived' would have been parsed into 0, 2, 3, 5, or 6 syllables depending on which analysis is used. One analysis would consider all vowel and consonant segments as syllable nuclei, another would consider only a small subset (fricatives or sibilants) as nuclei candidates, and another would simply deny the existence of syllables completely. However, when working with recordings rather than transcriptions, the syllables can be obvious in such languages, and native speakers have strong intuitions as to what the syllables are.\n\nThis type of phenomenon has also been reported in Berber languages (such as Indlawn Tashlhiyt Berber), Moroccan Arabic (apparently under Berber influence), Mon–Khmer languages (such as Semai, Temiar, Khmu) and the Ōgami dialect of Miyako, a Ryukyuan language.\n\nThe coda (also known as auslaut) comprises the consonant sounds of a syllable that follow the nucleus. The sequence of nucleus and coda is called a rime. Some syllables consist of only a nucleus, only an onset and a nucleus with no coda, or only a nucleus and coda with no onset.\n\nThe phonotactics of many languages forbid syllable codas. Examples are Swahili and Hawaiian. In others, codas are restricted to a small subset of the consonants that appear in onset position. At a phonemic level in Japanese, for example, a coda may only be a nasal (homorganic with any following consonant) or, in the middle of a word, gemination of the following consonant. (On a phonetic level, other codas occur due to elision of /i/ and /u/.) In other languages, nearly any consonant allowed as an onset is also allowed in the coda, even clusters of consonants. In English, for example, all onset consonants except are allowed as syllable codas.\n\nIf the coda consists of a consonant cluster, the sonority decreases from left to right, as in the English word \"help\". This is called the sonority profile. English onset and coda clusters are therefore different. The onset \"str\" in \"strengths\" does not appear as a coda in any English word, and likewise the coda \"ngths\" does not appear as an onset in any word.\n\nA coda-less syllable of the form V, CV, CCV, etc. (V = vowel, C = consonant) is called an open syllable or free syllable, while a syllable that has a coda (VC, CVC, CVCC, etc.) is called a closed syllable or checked syllable. Note that they have nothing to do with open and close vowels, but are defined according to the phoneme that ends the syllable: a vowel (open syllable) or a consonant (closed syllable). Almost all languages allow open syllables, but some, such as Hawaiian, do not have closed syllables.\n\nNote that when a syllable is not the last syllable in a word, the nucleus normally must be followed by two consonants in order for the syllable to be closed. This is because a single following consonant is typically considered the onset of the following syllable. For example, Spanish \"casar\" \"to marry\" is composed of an open syllable followed by a closed syllable (\"ca-sar\"), whereas \"cansar\" \"to get tired\" is composed of two closed syllables (\"can-sar\"). When a geminate (double) consonant occurs, the syllable boundary occurs in the middle, e.g. Italian \"panna\" \"cream\" (\"pan-na\"); cf. Italian \"pane\" \"bread\" (\"pa-ne\").\n\nEnglish single-syllable words that have both a nucleus and a coda (i.e. closed syllables), where ν denotes \"nucleus\" and κ \"coda\":\n\nThe following single-syllable words end in a nucleus and do not have a coda (i.e. open syllables):\n\nA list of examples of syllable codas in English is found at English phonology: Coda.\n\nSome languages, such as Hawaiian, forbid codas, so that all syllables are open.\n\nThe domain of suprasegmental features is the syllable and not a specific sound, that is to say, they affect all the segments of a syllable:\n\nSometimes syllable length is also counted as a suprasegmental feature; for example, in some Germanic languages, long vowels may only exist with short consonants and vice versa. However, syllables can be analyzed as compositions of long and short phonemes, as in Finnish and Japanese, where consonant gemination and vowel length are independent.\n\nIn most languages, the pitch or pitch contour in which a syllable is pronounced conveys shades of meaning such as emphasis or surprise, or distinguishes a statement from a question. In tonal languages, however, the pitch affects the basic lexical meaning (e.g. \"cat\" vs. \"dog\") or grammatical meaning (e.g. past vs. present). In some languages, only the pitch itself (e.g. high vs. low) has this effect, while in others, especially East Asian languages such as Chinese, Thai or Vietnamese, the shape or contour (e.g. level vs. rising vs. falling) also needs to be distinguished.\n\nSyllable structure often interacts with stress or pitch accent. In Latin, for example, stress is regularly determined by syllable weight, a syllable counting as heavy if it has at least one of the following:\nIn each case the syllable is considered to have two morae.\n\nThe first syllable of a word is the initial syllable and the last syllable is the final syllable.\n\nIn languages accented on one of the last three syllables, the last syllable is called the ultima, the next-to-last is called the penult, and the third syllable from the end is called the antepenult. These terms come from Latin ' \"last\", ' \"almost last\", and \"\" \"before almost last\".\n\nIn Ancient Greek, there are three accent marks (acute, circumflex, and grave), and terms were used to describe words based on the position and type of accent. Some of these terms are used in the description of other languages.\n\nGuilhem Molinier, a member of the Consistori del Gay Saber, which was the first literary academy in the world and held the Floral Games to award the best troubadour with the \"violeta d'aur\" top prize, gave a definition of the syllable in his \"Leys d'amor\" (1328–1337), a book aimed at regulating the then flourishing Occitan poetry:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17142090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17142090", "title": "The Celator", "text": "The Celator\n\nThe Celator was a monthly magazine covering ancient coins and the ancient coin market. It was founded in 1987 by coin dealer Wayne Sayles in a newsprint format. \"The Celator\" was then edited and published by Kerry Wetterstrom in magazine format. From 1988 to 1995 a yearly \"Best of The Celator\" was printed. The magazine was based in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.\n\n\"The Celator\" ceased publication in 2012.\n\n\"The Celator\" won awards from the Numismatic Literary Guild including Best Column (in 2004 and 2005), Best Article (in 2005 and 2006), and Best Issue (in 2006).\n\n"}
{"id": "26102626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26102626", "title": "Walls of Benin", "text": "Walls of Benin\n\nThe Walls of Benin were a combination of ramparts and moats, called \"ya\" in the local language, used as a defense of the ancient Kingdom of Benin, which is present-day Benin City, the capital of present-day Edo, Nigeria. It was considered the largest man-made structure lengthwise and was hailed as the largest earthwork in the world. It is larger than Sungbo's Eredo. It enclosed of community lands. The combined length of the walls, many of which were outside the city, was over . It was estimated that earliest construction began in 800 and continued into the mid-15th century.\n\nThe walls were built of a ditch and dike structure; the ditch dug to form an inner moat with the excavated earth used to form the exterior rampart.\n\nThe Benin Walls were ravaged by the British in 1897 during what has come to be called the \"Punitive expedition\". Scattered pieces of the structure remain in Edo, with the vast majority of them being used by the locals for building purposes. What remains of the wall itself continues to be torn down for real estate developments.\n\nThe Walls of Benin City was the world's largest man-made earth structure. Fred Pearce wrote in New Scientist:\n\nEthnomathematician Ron Eglash has discussed the planned layout of the city using fractals as the basis, not only in the city itself and the villages but even in the rooms of houses. He commented that \"When Europeans first came to Africa, they considered the architecture very disorganised and thus primitive. It never occurred to them that the Africans might have been using a form of mathematics that they hadn’t even discovered yet.\"\n\nA Portuguese captain described the city in 1691:“Great Benin, where the king resides, is larger than Lisbon; all the streets run straight and as far as the eye can see. The houses are large, especially that of the king, which is richly decorated and has fine columns. The city is wealthy and industrious. It is so well governed that theft is unknown and the people live in such security that they have no doors to their houses.” This was at a time when theft and murder were rife in London.\n\nThis site was added, along with Sungbo's Eredo, to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on 1 November 1995 in the Cultural category.\n\n"}
{"id": "1937408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1937408", "title": "Watchmaker analogy", "text": "Watchmaker analogy\n\nThe watchmaker analogy or watchmaker argument is a teleological argument which states, by way of an analogy, that a design implies a designer. The analogy has played a prominent role in natural theology and the \"argument from design,\" where it was used to support arguments for the existence of God and for the intelligent design of the universe, in both Christianity and Deism.\n\nSir Isaac Newton, among other leaders in the scientific revolution, including René Descartes, upheld \"that the physical laws he had uncovered revealed the mechanical perfection of the workings of the universe to be akin to a watch, wherein the watchmaker is God.\"\n\nThe 1859 publication of Charles Darwin's theory of natural selection put forward an explanation for complexity and adaptation, which reflects scientific consensus on the origins of biological diversity. In the eyes of some, this provided a counter-argument to the watchmaker analogy: for example, the evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins referred to the analogy in his 1986 book \"The Blind Watchmaker\" giving his explanation of evolution. Others, however, consider the watchmaker analogy to be compatible with evolutionary creation, opining that the two concepts are not mutually exclusive. In the 19th century, deists, who championed the watchmaker analogy, held that Darwin's theory fit with \"the principle of uniformitarianism—the idea that all processes in the world occur now as they have in the past\" and that deistic evolution \"provided an explanatory framework for understanding species variation in a mechanical universe.\"\n\nIn the United States, starting in the 1960s, creationists revived versions of the argument to dispute the concepts of evolution and natural selection, and there was renewed interest in the watchmaker argument. The most famous statement of this teleological argument using the watchmaker analogy was given by William Paley in his 1802 book \"Natural Theology or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity\".\n\nThe scientific revolution \"nurtured a growing awareness\" that \"there were universal laws of nature at work that ordered the movement of the world and its parts.\" James K. A. Smith and Amos Yong write that in \"astronomy, the Copernican revolution regarding the heliocentrism of the solar system, Johannes Kepler's (1571–1630) three laws of planetary motion, and Isaac Newton's (1642–1727) law of universal gravitation—laws of gravitation and of motion, and notions of absolute space and time—all combined to establish the regularities of heavenly and earthly bodies.\" With such a backdrop, \"deists suggested the watchmaker analogy: just as watches are set in motion by watchmakers, after which they operate according to their pre-established mechanisms, so also was the world begun by the God as creator, after which it and all its parts have operated according to their pre-established natural laws. With these laws perfectly in place, events have unfolded according to the prescribed plan.\" For Sir Isaac Newton, \"the regular motion of the planets made it reasonable to believe in the continued existence of God.\" Newton also upheld the idea that \"like a watchmaker, God was forced to intervene in the universe and tinker with the mechanism from time to time to ensure that it continued operating in good working order.\" Like Newton, René Descartes viewed \"the cosmos as a great time machine operating according to fixed laws, a watch created and wound up by the great watchmaker.\"\n\nWatches and timepieces have been used as examples of complicated technology in philosophical discussions. For example, Cicero, Voltaire and René Descartes all used timepieces in arguments regarding purpose. The watchmaker analogy, as described here, was used by Bernard le Bovier de Fontenelle in 1686, but was most famously formulated by Paley.\n\nPaley used the watchmaker analogy in his book \"Natural Theology, or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity collected from the Appearances of Nature\", published in 1802. In it, Paley wrote that if a pocket watch is found on a heath, it is most reasonable to assume that someone dropped it and that it was made by at least one watchmaker, not by natural forces:\n\nPaley went on to argue that the complex structures of living things and the remarkable adaptations of plants and animals required an intelligent designer. He believed the natural world was the creation of God and showed the nature of the creator. According to Paley, God had carefully designed \"even the most humble and insignificant organisms\" and all of their minute features (such as the wings and antennae of earwigs). He believed, therefore, that God must care even more for humanity.\n\nPaley recognised that there is great suffering in nature and nature appears to be indifferent to pain. His way of reconciling that with his belief in a benevolent God was to assume that life had more pleasure than pain.\"\n\nAs a side note, a charge of wholesale plagiarism from this book was brought against Paley in \"The Athenaeum\" for 1848, but the famous illustration of the watch was not peculiar to Nieuwentyt and had been used by many others before either Paley or Nieuwentyt.\n\nWilliam Paley taught the works of Joseph Butler and appears to have built on Butler's 1736 design arguments of inferring a designer from evidence of design. Butler noted: \n\"As the manifold Appearances of Design and of final Causes, in the Constitution of the World, prove it to be the Work of an intelligent Mind ... The appearances of \"Design\" and of \"final Causes\" in the constitution of nature as really prove this acting agent to be an \"intelligent Designer\"... ten thousand Instances of Design, cannot but prove a Designer.\".\n\nRousseau also mentioned the watchmaker theory. He wrote the following in his 1762 book, Emile: I am like a man who sees the works of a watch for the first time; he is never weary of admiring the mechanism, though he does not know the use of the instrument and has never seen its face. I do not know what this is for, says he, but I see that each part of it is fitted to the rest, I admire the workman in the details of his work, and I am quite certain that all these wheels only work together in this fashion for some common end which I cannot perceive. Let us compare the special ends, the means, the ordered relations of every kind, then let us listen to the inner voice of feeling; what healthy mind can reject its evidence? Unless the eyes are blinded by prejudices, can they fail to see that the visible order of the universe proclaims a supreme intelligence? What sophisms must be brought together before we fail to understand the harmony of existence and the wonderful co-operation of every part for the maintenance of the rest? \n\nDavid Hume (1711-1776) offered a number of the most memorable philosophical criticisms to Paley's watch analogy before Darwin's theory of evolution had been developed. His criticisms can be separated into three major distinctions:\n\nHis first objection is that we have no experience of world-making. Hume highlighted the fact that everything we claim to know the cause of, we have derived the inductions from previous experiences of similar objects being created or seen the object itself being created ourselves. For example, with a watch, we know it has to be created by a watch-maker because we can observe it being made and compare it to the making of other similar watches or objects to deduce they have alike causes in their creation. However, he argues that we have no experience of the universe's creation or any other universe's creations to compare our own universe to and never will; therefore, it would be illogical to infer that our universe has been created by an intelligent designer in the same way that a watch has.\n\nThe second criticism that Hume offers is about the form of the argument as an analogy in itself. An analogical argument claims that because object X (a watch) is like object Y (the universe) in one respect, both are therefore probably alike in another, hidden, respect (their cause, having to be created by an intelligent designer). He points out that for an argument from analogy to be successful, the two things that are being compared have to have an adequate number of similarities that are relevant to the respect that are analogised. For example, a kitten and a lion may be very similar in many respects, but just because a lion makes a \"roar\", it would not be correct to infer a kitten also \"roars\": the similarities between the two objects being not similar enough and the degree of relevance to what sound they make being not relevant enough. Hume then argues that the universe and a watch also do not have enough relevant or close similarities to infer that they were both created the same way. For example, the universe is made of organic natural material, but the watch is made of artificial mechanic materials. He claims that in the same respect, the universe could be argued to be more analogous to something more organic such as a vegetable (in which we can observe for ourselves does not need a 'designer' or a 'watchmaker' to be created). Although he admits the analogy of a universe to a vegetable to seem ridiculous, he says that it is just as ridiculous to analogize the universe with a watch.\n\nThe third criticism that Hume offers is that even if the argument did give evidence for a designer; it still gives no evidence for the traditional 'omnipotent', 'benevolent' (all-powerful and all-loving) God of traditional Christian theism. One of the main assumptions of Paley's argument is that 'like effects have like causes'; or that machines (like the watch) and the universe have similar features of design and so both also have the same cause of their existence: they must both have an intelligent designer. However, Hume points out that what Paley does not comprehend is to what extent 'like causes' extend: how similar the creation of a universe is to the creation of a watch. Instead, Paley moves straight to the conclusion that this designer of the universe is the 'God' he believes in of traditional Christianity. Hume, however takes the idea of 'like causes' and points out some potential absurdities in how far the 'likeness' of these causes could extend to if the argument were taken further as to explain this. One example that he uses is how a machine or a watch is usually designed by a whole team of people rather than just one person. Surely, if we are analogizing the two in this way, it would point to there being a group of gods who created the universe, not just a single being. Another example he uses is that complex machines are usually the result of many years of trial and error with every new machine being an improved version of the last. Also by analogy of the two, would that not hint that the universe could also have been just one of many of God's 'trials' and that there are much better universes out there? However, if that were taken to be true, surely the 'creator' of it all would not be 'all loving' and 'all powerful' if they had to carry out the process of 'trial and error' when creating the universe?\n\nHume also points out there is still a possibility that the universe could have been created by random chance but still show evidence of design as the universe is eternal and would have an infinite amount of time to be able to form a universe so complex and ordered as our own. He called that the 'Epicurean hypothesis'. It argued that when the universe was first created, the universe was random and chaotic, but if the universe is eternal, over an unlimited period of time, natural forces could have naturally 'evolved' by random particles coming together over time into the incredibly ordered system we can observe today without the need of an intelligent designer as an explanation.\n\nThe last objection that he makes draws on the widely discussed problem of evil. He argues that all the daily unnecessary suffering that goes on everywhere within the world is yet another factor that pulls away from the idea that God is an 'omnipotent' 'benevolent' being.\n\nCharles Darwin's theory provided another explanation.\n\nWhen Darwin completed his studies of theology at Christ's College, Cambridge in 1831, he read Paley's \"Natural Theology\" and believed that the work gave rational proof of the existence of God. That was because living beings showed complexity and were exquisitely fitted to their places in a happy world.\n\nSubsequently, on the voyage of the \"Beagle\", Darwin found that nature was not so beneficent, and the distribution of species did not support ideas of divine creation. In 1838, shortly after his return, Darwin conceived his theory that natural selection, rather than divine design, was the best explanation for gradual change in populations over many generations. He published the theory in \"On the Origin of Species\" in 1859, and in later editions, he noted responses that he had received:\n\nDarwin reviewed the implications of this finding in his autobiography:\nThe idea that nature was governed by laws was already common, and in 1833, William Whewell as a proponent of the natural theology that Paley had inspired had written that \"with regard to the material world, we can at least go so far as this—we can perceive that events are brought about not by insulated interpositions of Divine power, exerted in each particular case, but by the establishment of general laws.\" Darwin, who spoke of the \"fixed laws\" concurred with Whewell, writing in his second edition of \"On The Origin of Species\":\n\nBy the time that Darwin published his theory, theologians of liberal Christianity were already supporting such ideas, and by the late 19th century, their modernist approach was predominant in theology. In science, evolution theory incorporating Darwin's natural selection became completely accepted.\n\nIn \"The Blind Watchmaker\", Richard Dawkins argues that the watch analogy conflates the complexity that arises from living organisms that are able to reproduce themselves (and may cause to become more complex over time) with the complexity of inanimate objects, unable to pass on any reproductive changes (such as the multitude of parts manufactured in a watch). The comparison breaks down because of this important distinction.\n\nIn a \"BBC Horizon\" episode, also entitled \"The Blind Watchmaker\", Dawkins described Paley's argument as being \"as mistaken as it is elegant\". In both contexts, he saw Paley as having made an incorrect proposal as to a certain problem's solution, but Dawkins did not disrespect him. In his essay \"The Big Bang\", Steven Pinker discusses Dawkins's coverage of Paley's argument, adding: \"Biologists today do not disagree with Paley's laying out of the problem. They disagree only with his solution.\"\n\nIn his book \"The God Delusion\", Dawkins argues that life was the result of complex biological processes. He makes the argument that the comparison to the lucky construction of a watch is fallacious because proponents of evolution do not consider evolution \"lucky\". Rather than luck, the evolution of human life is the result of billions of years of natural selection. He concludes that evolution is a fair contestant to replace God in the role of watchmaker.\n\nIn addition, he argues that the watchmaker's creation of the watch implies that the watchmaker must be more complex than the watch.\nDesign is top-down, someone or something more complex designs something less complex.\nTo follow the line upwards demands that the watch was designed by a (necessarily more complex) watchmaker, the watchmaker must have been created by a more complex being than himself. So the question becomes who designed the designer? \nDawkins argues that (a) this line continues ad infinitum, and (b) it does not explain anything.\n\nEvolution, on the other hand, takes a bottom-up approach; it explains how more complexity can arise gradually by building on or combining lesser complexity.\n\nIn response to such claims, Nathan Schneider writes, \"Paley died decades before \"The Origin of Species\" was published, and ever since his views have been so repeatedly set in opposition to Darwin's that Richard Dawkins titled one of his books on evolution \"The Blind Watchmaker\". A closer look at Paley's own thinking reveals, however, a God who works through the laws of nature, not beyond them like the modern ID theorists' designer. Paley had no objection to species changing over time. It's only in today's highly polarized culture-war climate that we don't bother to notice that one of the forefathers of intelligent design theory might have been perfectly comfortable with evolution.\"\n\nCritics have found fault in the watch, or the alternative 'eye', analogy. Biologist Peter Richerson and anthropologist Robert Boyd argue that a human could not make a watch alone and so a watch does not have a designer.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the modernist theology of higher criticism was contested in the United States by Biblical literalists, who campaigned successfully against the teaching of evolution and began calling themselves creationists in the 1920s. When teaching of evolution was reintroduced into public schools in the 1960s, they adopted what they called \"creation science\" that had a central concept of design in similar terms to Paley's argument. That idea was then relabeled \"intelligent design\", which presents the same analogy as an argument against evolution by natural selection without explicitly stating that the \"intelligent designer\" was God. The argument from the complexity of biological organisms was now presented as the \"irreducible complexity\" argument, the most notable proponent of which was Michael Behe, and, leveraging off the verbiage of information theory, the \"specified complexity\" argument, the most notable proponent of which was William Dembski.\n\nThe watchmaker analogy was referenced in the 2005 Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District trial. Throughout the trial, Paley was mentioned several times. The defense's expert witness John Haught noted that both Intelligent Design and the watchmaker analogy are \"reformulations\" of the same theological argument.\nOn day 21 of the trial, Mr. Harvey walked Dr. Minnich through a modernized version of Paley's argument, substituting a cell phone for the watch.\nIn his ruling, the judge stated that the use of the argument from design by intelligent design proponents \"is merely a restatement of the Reverend William Paley's argument applied at the cell level\" and that the argument from design is subjective.\n\n\n\n"}
